The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY GOLDSBERRY

Business Managers
CHLOE BROOKE, SCOTT REEDER

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Sports Editor
JAY CANTRELL

Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE, McNEIL CARSWELL

News Editor
JESSICA GOODSON

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Web Page Manager
HENDI FINK

Opinions Editor
KRISTEN BARTCH

Copy Editors
ANNA ERIKSSON, DAVID SANTSCHI, SONYA HAGLER

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

‘This office is yours, too.’

Francis Wilson Price, this paper’s founding father and original editor, wrote on April 14, 1914, that the Davidsonian “needs exactly
what other publications must rely on: the support of the students and friends of Davidson.” And over 83 years after
Price penned that first editorial, the message remains unchanged. Help.

The Davidsonian can succeed in one and only one way: by receiving consistent and unfailing student patronage, cooperation, and assistance.
I am ready, willing, and honored to be working for you, and I will — for better or for worse
— drop everything — or, rather, continue to drop everything — to produce each and every week a more perfect
paper than the last. But I also, and even more importantly, need to be working with you.

According to Admissions, over one in every 10 members of the newly-arrived Class of 2001 served as editor of his
or her high school paper or other literary production. If just half, or even a quarter, of that group continues
to pursue journalism as an extracurricular at the collegiate ranks, the Davidsonian will be that much closer to legitimately —
not just in name — being the South’s Foremost College Weekly.

We don’t have a journalism program per se, and most every single person on the Davidsonian staff works — and
works hard and works long — for no pay and no academic credit. But Davidson is home to some unbelievable
talents, some unbelievable minds — and enough of them for this school to consistently be considered by the U.S. News
& World Report as one of the nation’s finest.

You, the students at this college, are some of the most motivated people on this planet. Our campus exudes raw
talent, even if it is not (yet) labeled as specifically journalistic. And that, in and of itself, is far more
important than any amount of actual journalism training.

Since I arrived two years ago as a freshman, I have learned what a small group of dedicated people can
do. Now I want to see what a large group of dedicated people can do. As Price said of his
Chambers workspace more than three-quarters of a century ago, “This office is yours, too. The Davidsonian asks for your earnest
cooperation.” Today, I ask the same.

Michael J. Kruse

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Welcome and Welcome back...

...two greetings which seem to fill the air everywhere recently, both on the campus as well as in town. I
notice that while everyone responds in a similar fashion, the meaning varies from person to person.

To those students and faculty who are returning, the emphasis is on the “back.” Their excitement is electric and real,
but is grounded in past events. They are looking forward to things that are familiar, but know that there will
be new challenges. They are confident, but not bored. They are looking forward to seeing old friends, but open to
making new ones. This enthusiasm comes from the possibility of building, but building upon what they already know, building on
accomplishments already achieved.

For the newcomer — the faces, although they are fewer now, coupled with the anticipation of seeing new ones. One
feels excitement at seeing familiar places, although most have been altered and some torn down. Yet, there are those aspects
of this campus which...are absolutely unchanged, things that you cannot see or touch: acceptance, caring, inclusiveness. In this case, the
emphasis is on the welcome back; but, in fact, to something entirely new. In whatever group you find yourself, freshman
or returning student, there is one truth that applies across the board. Your being on this campus is what breathes
life into it. The frenetic activities—building and patching, creating new courses, etc.—which occur here all summer take meaning only upon
your return. Without the students, this campus is a painting with faded lines and dull colors, a symphony with no
strings, a sporting event with no fans. To use a phrase that my daughter uses when I do something incredibly
stupid, without you, “the gates are down, the lights are flashing, but the train is not coming.” What goes on
here in your absence is lacking in the life and spirit which you bring it. So whether this is your
first week or your 101st week on this campus, know that we mean it when we say, “Welcome and welcome
back!”

As we all return to campus, or as some of us are doing, starting on this campus, we must all
remember the Alamo, and that the Student Government Association is going into this year full swing for you and all
of the Davidson community. The Vamanos Van—and I’m sorry, but I still don’t know if I’m spelling “Vamanos” correctly—will be
in full effect in a couple of weeks, but we can’t do it without volunteers. For those who don’t know,
the Vamanos Van is a van that runs Thursday through Saturday nights. It is an easy means of transportation into
Cornelius and Huntersville, stopping off at Harris Teeter, the Movies by the Lake, the Rainbow Deli, the bowling alley, Target,
and a couple of other restaurants. It is a safe rides program that only costs $1 each way, and if
you volunteer to drive, you don’t have to pay to ride the van for that week. I am also still
on my playground kick, and that is going strong. I would love to have some swings and monkey bars and
all that for everyone by the end of this year.

For all of the freshmen and people who just don’t know, the Student Government Association is a group of students
elected or appointed to represent student views to the campus, the faculty, and the Trustees. We have 17 committees dealing
with every student aspect on campus, and encourage you to get involved with them. For more information on the committees,
please give me a call at x6633. One major change that we made last year is that, instead of having
three weeks to decide if you want to take a class pass/fail, you now have eight weeks. We deal with
academic issues, campus facility issues (the laundry, the Commons, etc.), and will be expanding our scope into aspects of racism,
diversity, overall happiness of the students, etc. I’m really excited. I hope you are, too!

So when a problem arises that you think could be fixed, or you see a better way of doing things,
or you just have an opinion that you'd like to get off of your chest, give it to the SGA
and we’ll duke it out in the Union Conference Room Tuesday nights at 9:00 p.m.—anyone can come and participate. I
hope that a lot of you freshmen try to get involved in the SGA because we make some really great
changes for the school. And please, before you go to bed tonight, try to think of some other question to
ask everyone besides the old “How was your summer?” bit. If you have any questions or concerns about getting involved
or the school in general, or just want to hear some really good Elvis impersonations, don’t hesitate to give me
a call. Opinions. Have some. Call David.
