DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997 15

Herd rallies behind crowd, tops Wildcats
Davidson misses opportunity to tie for Northern top spot
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

While the Davidsonian Sports staff had car troubles on I-77 and couldn’t reach Huntington, W.Va., the Wildcats encountered their own roadblocks on Monday night, losing at Marshall, 76-70. With a win, the Wildcats would have earned a tie with the Thundering Herd atop the North Division standings.

Davidson (11-9, 5-4 SC) blew an 11-point lead in the final 8:54, as the Herd (15-5, 7-2) rallied behind a rabid home crowd of 4,614 to put together a 30-13 game-ending run.

“We rushed and forgot to do the little things and the details,” said coach Bob McKillop. “That rushing happened because the crowd had emotionally pressured us. Without a doubt, that was the biggest impact any place had on our performance this year.”

With the score knotted at 44 with 12:34 left, David Burns scored seven points in the next two minutes, and Mark Donnelly and Davor Halbauer added layups in the run to give the Wildcats a game-high 57-46 advantage. But Marshall controlled play from that point on, as Keith Veney - the nation’s second-leading three-point shooter - scored ten of his 16 points down the stretch. John Brannen (21 points) and Sidney Coles (20 points, 7 assists) each added six in the decisive late-game spurt.

Mark Donnelly struggled all night, missing all ten of his three-pointers to finish with five points.

By Daniel Motz
Staff Writer

DAVIDSON, Feb. 6 - Caution. David Burns is flammable. Coming off a career-high 18-point performance at Marshall, Burns continued his torrid shooting Thursday with a new personal standard of 19 points in a 73-64 Wildcat non-conference victory over Siena.

“David continues to grow and prosper,” said coach Bob McKillop. “Tonight was a classic example of someone taking another step forward and I’m thrilled.”

Narcisse Ewodo and Chadd Holmes also played key roles in the win. Ewodo led the Wildcats with 21 points and Holmes notched his first career double-double, dropping in 16 points and grabbing a career-high 12 rebounds.

A Burns three-pointer with 8:33 left in the first half broke a 19-19 stalemate and gave Davidson a lead it would never relinquish. Another Burns trey at the halftime buzzer capped a 20-8 run and gave the Wildcats a 39-27 intermission advantage.

In the second half, the outcome of the game was never in doubt. An Ewodo jumper at the 12:47 mark put Davidson up by 20 at 53-33. The final nine-point margin marked the closest Siena ever got.

The Wildcats’ pressure defense seemed to confuse the Saints, who were held to 35% shooting from the floor.

“I didn’t like what happened with our traps in the first half (in which Siena shot 42%),” said McKillop. “I thought our traps were a little soft. We let people out, we let passes out. I think in the second half (30%), we became much more aggressive.”

McKillop’s emphasis seems to have rubbed off on Burns. While his offensive numbers are impressive, it is his defense and rebounding that are winning him minutes.

“I’ve never had problems scoring, but my defense and rebounding have really been improving, and I’m getting the minutes.”suspect in the past,” said Burns. “It’s finally starting to come around.”

Scorebox from page 13: Burns filled some of the scoring void, pouring in a then career-best 18 points in just 11 minutes. The 6-7 offensive superstar nailed 4-of-6 from beyond the arc and also contributed a career high four rebounds.

“What’s encouraging about David is not his explosiveness or his scoring ability,” McKillop pointed out. “We’ve always known that’s been there. What’s encouraging is he’s learning to rebound and defend. He’s learning to focus on things beyond the offensive end of the basketball court.”

Narcisse Ewodo led Davidson with 18 points and Landry Kosmalski added a dozen.

Four new members inducted to Davidson Athletics Hall of Fame
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The Davidson Athletic Hall of Fame welcomed four new members during a ceremony at halftime of the Furman game. Thompson S. Baker ‘26, John M. Belk ‘43, Michael J. Mikolayunas ‘71, and Sarah Womack Parham ‘80 made up this year’s class of inductees.

Baker was a star end for the Wildcat football squad and earned All-State honors his junior and senior seasons. The Baker Sports Complex is named after his family.

Belk was a four-year starter at center for the Davidson basketball team from 1939-43. Since graduating over half a century ago, he has maintained close ties to his alma mater, serving on the College’s Board of Trustees from 1959-72 and again from 1985-96. In addition, Belk helped bring NCAA, ACC, and Southern Conference basketball to Charlotte.

Although thirty years have passed since he last played on the college gridiron, Mikolayunas is still 17th all-time on the NCAA list for career receptions per game (6.0) and 25th on the reception list (175). He led the nation in receptions in 1970 with 87. His single game mark of 17 stands as a conference standard. He was an assistant coach at UCLA until his death in 1979 at just 30 years old.

Womack Parham, one of the finest women’s basketball performers in school history, set 18 Davidson records during her four-year career. She is still the all-time leader in points per game (16.7) and field goals (556) and is the only female athlete whose jersey has been retired.

Alpert back at the Big D
Chris Alpert, who guided the Wildcats to a 25-5 record and NIT berth last year at point guard, was at the Siena and Furman games this weekend and will be at tonight’s game vs. ETSU as well. Alpert is back in the U.S. rehabbing a sprained ankle suffered playing professional basketball in France. When the injury occurred, he was set to sign a contract with a team in France’s Pro B league - a league in which Brandon Williams, another standout on last year’s Wildcats squad, and Anquell McCollum, last season’s Southern Conference Player-of-the-Year for Western Carolina, are currently playing.

He has been doing some volunteer coaching at his old high school in New York, but isn’t yet ready to give up on his pro basketball career.

“It’s not as competitive as it is over here,” Alpert said Thursday after the Siena game. “It’s very different to play over there for guards, but the enjoyment I get out of basketball is still there.”

Write for Sports.