20 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

THE YEAR THAT WAS: Davidson Athletics, 1996-97

Sports Information

Seniors Melissa Moser, Lucia Plosser, and Kelly Ammann, and Coach Kevin Hundley pose with their third straight SC trophy.

SEPTEMBER

1 Both soccers upset South Carolina in a doubleheader at Richardson. Junior Phil Julien scores the only goal in the
men’s contest, after which coach Charlie Slagle calls it the program’s biggest victory since the fabled 1992 NCAA tourney run.
The women win 2-1, as freshman phenom Ginny Dye nets the game-winner in the 90th minute.

14 Lorenzo Moll rushes for 138 yards, and football ends a nine-game winless streak with a season-opening 24-14 victory at
Maryville.

OCTOBER

7 Fourth-ranked Duke manhandles men’s soccer in Durham, 4-0. The loss is the team’s fourth straight and sixth in seven
outings.

18 With a 4-1 loss against Furman in Greenville, S.C., men’s soccer’s losing streak reaches nine, the program’s longest skid
since 1977.

NOVEMBER

3 Field hockey loses to Appalachian St. 3-0 in the Deep South tournament, as the Wildcats’ string of six straight
league crowns comes to an end.

4 Dunn Mileham kicks a 25-yard field goal with three seconds left, giving the Wildcats a 24-21 win at Hampden-Sydney.
Frank Santore, voice of the Davidson Wildcats, repeatedly dubs Mileham “king of the world.”

9 Men’s soccer ends its lackluster season with a 4-0 semifinal loss to host Furman in the Southern Conference tournament.

10 Freshman Kate McKnight’s first career goal gives women’s soccer its third consecutive Southern Conference championship in a 1-0 title
game victory over Georgia Southern.

16 Senior lineman John Cowan and twelve other seniors become the first Davidson gridiron class to post two six-win campaigns
since 1933. “I’m just real proud that they could leave like this,” coach Tim Landis tells the DSS. “They’re a
special group.”

22 Women’s basketball opens its season with an 84-52 win at Army.

23 Landry Kosmalski registers a double-double in his first collegiate game, and men’s basketball posts a convincing 87-73 season-opening win
over Fairleigh-Dickinson in Teaneck, N.J.

29 The men’s hoopsters lead throughout the first half against Wake Forest at Winston-Salem, but eventually succumb to Tim Duncan
and the Deacons 69-45. “Bob McKillop has done a wonderful job with a very young team,” says Wake coach Dave
Odom after the game. “We were surprised with how well they pressured us with the ball and without the ball.
I give them credit.”

DECEMBER

2 Men’s hoops logs its biggest win of the season, scoring the game’s final eight points to knock off NCAA
tournament team Ole Miss 59-56 at Belk Arena.

JANUARY

27 Kosmalski has a career day at The Citadel, scoring 24 points and grabbing 15 rebounds. As far as the
DSS is concerned, the performance clinches Southern Conference Freshman-of-the-Year honors, an award he does in fact win prior to the
league tourney.

FEBRUARY

13-15 Swimmers root their teammates on at the Southern States meet at Cannon Pool. Both the men’s and women’s teams
swam to championships.

MARCH

3 Carolyn Kirsch — known simply as CK — becomes the most prolific rebounder in the history of Davidson women’s
basketball by grabbing a first-half board against Furman.

8 Women’s trackster Jamilah Sawyer sets school records in the 60-meter hurdles and 200 meters at Virginia Tech.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Teams register a ‘clean sweep in the Southern States meet at Cannon Pool, as both the men and the women
earn championships. Mary Shell Brosche, Kathleen Paffenroth, Zannah Bozzone, Matt Lake, Scott Harper, Terry Dolch, Freddy Schnell, and Sam Kuykendall
are all named to the all-meet teams. “Davidson’s a small school, and yet we can do something as incredible as
this,” Bo Craig tells the DSS.

16 Slugging right fielder Gus Quattlebaum goes 6-for-6 with four homers and ten RBIs in baseball’s 17-6 victory over VCU.
His efforts set three school records and earn the senior star college baseball national co-player of the week honors.

17 CK drops 23 points on Chattanooga to become the all-time leading scorer in the history of Wildcat women’s hoops.
Scoring is the fifth category in which she now stands alone, as the forward emphasizes her status as the school’s
finest women’s player ever.

17 With a 97-77 victory at Virginia Military, men’s basketball nets the program’s 1,000th all-time win.

22 Narcisse Ewodo tallies a game-winning layup at the buzzer in his final Belk appearance, as men’s basketball tops Appalachian
78-76.

26 Women’s basketball drops a last-second 73-71 Southern Conference quarterfinal decision to Georgia Southern. With the heartbreaking loss, a season
ends.

1 Grappler Ben Wall advances to the finals of the 190-pound championship bracket at the Southern Conference tournament in Greensboro.

29 Dan Dearing shatters the school javelin mark with a throw of 184 feet, six inches at the Emory University
Classic in Atlanta.

APRIL

2 Sailing falls just shy of a berth in nationals, finishing second in the North District and fourth out of
23 schools at the South Atlantic Conference Championships.

5 Men’s tennis edges Furman 4-3 at Covington Courts, marking the Wildcats’ first win over perennial power Furman since 1973.

14-15 Jason Carlock finishes fifth at the Southern Conference golf championships and is named to the all-league team.

18-20 After a controversial call on the second day of competition, men’s tennis loses the Southern Conference title by a
single point to Furman. Jon Pastel — who is named league Player-of-the-Year for the second consecutive season — takes the
No. 2 doubles crown with partner Scott Briggs, while rookies Alex Okulski and Brett Malacci capture individual singles titles. Coach
Jeff Frank calls his squad “the most incredible team I've ever coached.”

18-20 Lynne Shore wins a Southern Conference title in the No. 6 singles flight at the league championships in Greenville,
S.C. Dana Casner also garners all-league accolades, as the Wildcats finish fourth overall as a team.

20 First baseman Brad Edwards has a career day against Appalachian, going 5-for-6 with three homers and seven RBIs.

CK leaves the women’s basketball program as its all-time leading scorer and rebounder. “Every women’s hoops player who comes to
Davidson will be, from here on out, compared to Carolyn Kirsch,” the DSS wrote March 17. “She has set a
standard of winning in a program that had grown accustomed to losing.”

---
