RTS & LIVING | MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

NOW & THEN

Self-selection changes over the past 10 years

By Mary Towes ALLISON
Staff writer

Everyone knows that Davidson thrives on tradition. It ties us to the past and gives us a little comfort in the fact that at least some things will never change. Self Selection — perhaps the most unique party that Davidson has to offer — is no exception to that rule. Fraternity pledges have been streaking Patterson Court for years, and girls who choose to self-select come prepared to drown in cheap champagne. However, over the decade some things have changed, although the general idea of the event — to celebrate with newfound friends in uncommon ritual — has stayed the same.

In 1987, Patterson Court looked a little different than it does now. Spencer House held Conner’s place on the court, and two of five co-ed eating houses — Emanon and PAX — were struggling to stay afloat. In a Davidsonian article about ‘87s Self Selection, Holly Sparks, the president of PAX, commented on Emanon’s inevitable fold and her hope for the future of the co-ed eating houses: “We’re sorry about what may happen to Emanon, but we don’t feel that being the only co-ed house is going to hurt us... co-ed eating will not die out at Davidson.” As it stands now, the Commons is the only co-ed eating experience in existence and the future of any such organization looks grim. Last April, a group of students petitioned for the revival of co-ed eating houses on the court, but lack of interest was stronger than any student sentiment to change the Court.

A decade ago, Kappa Sig was off campus and gaining popularity for their renegade reputation. Pledges of the fraternity turned to it because it seemed the members were those who were unhappy with the current options on the Court, but looking forward to moving on campus in ‘88. If anything, it seems that Self Selection, though wrought with the dangers of any big party night on the Court, was a power play for both the sexes. The girls, though wet, dressed in their oldest sweats and most protective ponchos, were at least clothed, while their vulnerable pledge-friends braved the ten-degree temperatures — never mind the wind chill — and loved it. Davidson’s twisted tradition of making ice cubes out of the pledges is indeed memorable, so it’s no surprise that this tradition continues.

Friday night everyone and anyone danced on tables, chairs, benches, doused each other with champagne and water — whatever happened to be within reach. Last night or last decade? It’s hard to tell sometimes. Ten years ago, Self Selection was held on a weeknight. Although the night wisely has been moved to a Friday, the antics and all-night celebrations are the same. At left Warner Hall’s incoming class of ’87 get wet and bond. Above, a few ’87 SPE pledges pose in front of their favorite herd of cattle, a pledge activity (we hope). Other pranks that year included SAE’s streaking Richardson dorm and Spencer’s holding a keg party in the 24-hour room. — photos and information from Quips & Cranks

With the new Patterson Court rule banning glass bottles at parties, Rusk girls filled liter bottles with champagne’s bubbly brew, while Warner Hall opted for a new twist on getting their girls messy with shaving cream. Really, why waste Bi-Lo’s best cheap variety? Warner Hall and Rusk had an even split of 61 girls in both houses, while Conner pulled through with 31. The fraternities reported an average number of pledges for the semester.

So, it seems that Patterson Court is alive and well, but Holly Sparks' words are somewhat sobering. She was incredibly optimistic about the future of co-ed eating houses, and the passing of the decade witnessed their downfall. Perhaps party-goers should take warning. With the ever-changing alcohol policy, the banning of the kegs, and omnipresent liability worries, it appears that the Court may be in more trouble than we wish to admit.

Christmas movies sing, surprise, and scare

By JOHN COPPENHAVER, MARY CLARE JALONICK, MATT ERICU, Executive Editors & Staff Writer

Scream

This movie is terrifying.Not only because the psycho killer could give Stephen King chills, but because it makes the viewer laugh as he or she watches a long list of innocent and beautiful teen bodies ripped to shreds. This is its intent, as it is a “parody” of every horror movie we have ever seen. However, the parody does not go far enough. It uses the Natural Born Killers method of using mockery and satire as an excuse to spew blood and enact brutal gruesome murder all in the name of a social commentary on “teens today.” It is fun to watch though, and filmmaker Wes Craven (the punch line of the “parody” aspect) juxtaposes old horror movies with his current nightmare brilliantly. But a pointed satire, no. B

Mars Attacks
Tim Burton weaves his twistedly funny movie magic with this one. As a parody of the recent Independence Day, this film works in creating characters, who lack any development whatsoever and, in the face of impending doom, are stupidly optimistic about events changing their world—namely little green men from Mars. During the movie, several storylines unwind, but surprisingly, they do not conveniently connect like the narrative of Independence Day. The heroes (a grungy teenage boy and his grandmother) are unlikely, and the victims are, in most cases, joyfully incinerated by the aliens’ laser guns. This film derives most of its humor as a parody. The biggest problem, which is often the biggest problem with Burton’s films, is that the movie lacks a good story. Burton creates fantastic worlds and creative characters (and creatures), but he forgets, all too often, the true essence of movie magic, a good story. B

Evening Star
Yes, a tearjerker. Evening Star, like its predecessor Terms of Endearment, is a story of growing up and dealing with life—and death. The center character, Aurora Greenway (Shirley Maclaine), shines with her Texas charm and loving durability. She fights to keep her family and herself together. Although this movie moves slowly at times and tries to do too much in a two-hour period (too many characters die; too many characters have traumas), it succeeds in centering the story around one character, Aurora, and does a beautiful job, watching her grow, fail, and triumph. B+

Evita
Truly, this was an unexpectedly amazing film. Although, I must confess, I’ve never enjoyed Andrew Lloyd Weber’s rock-opera melodrama and glitz, Evita, due to Madonna’s surprisingly mature singing and the rich music and breathtaking visuals, became a spectacular experience. But this is not what is best about Evita. No—what sparkled, what made the film worth seeing, was the subtlety of character which Madonna (and I could hardly believe it) gave Eva Perón. It seemed Madonna’s emotional characterization is at its finest when she can express herself through song. She acts more confident, more honestly through song. This film was the perfect medium to catch Madonna’s talents at their best. A-

The People vs. Larry Flynt
The People vs. Larry Flynt documents the life, legal troubles, and personal demons of publishing magnate, Larry Flynt (Woody Harrelson). Flynt is most famous as the publisher of Hustler magazine which he started as a newsletter for his go-go bar in Cincinnati in the early seventies. The local popularity of the newsletter, which featured his dancers posing naked, inspired him to try to create a niche in the pornography market by creating a po’ boy’s Playboy. As the title suggests, Flynt soon encountered legal obstacles to the distribution of his magazine which was markedly more explicit than Playboy. In Cincinnati and Georgia, he faced trial on obscenity charges and was sentenced to jail for publishing Hustler. Flynt turned the cases into first amendment tests all the while milking maximum publicity from the trials. In Georgia, Flynt was shot outside the courthouse and paralyzed from the waist down. A concurrent storyline involves Flynt’s marriage and love for Althea (Courtney Love). Their relationship presents Flynt as a caring and tender-hearted sentimentalist capable of feelings beyond the carnal. Harrelson’s performance was impassioned without being overly

See Movies on page 11