By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

The Clemson women’s soccer team hit Richardson Field like a tornado Wednesday night. By the time the dust had settled, the score was 7-0 — at halftime. The Tigers, ranked eighth in the country, were simply faster and better than the Wildcats. They dominated the first half but scored only one goal in the second to make the final 8-0.

“That’s the best they’ve played in any game or practice,” coach Kevin Hundley said of Clemson’s performance. “They’re a legitimate top 10 team and we faced them when they were on. That’s a daunting task for us.”

The Wildcats’ best chance came at the start of the second half when Kelly Rennick headed a Rhina Roberts corner kick just left of the goal. Other than that, the shots were few and far between. Even so, the Wildcats are looking on the bright side.

“If there is a silver lining in it, it’s that we played hard and didn’t give up. We played right through,” Hundley said. “This will pay dividends somewhere down the line. There will be another game where we’ll draw from this experience and it will serve us well.”

Hundley was also able to play all three goalkeepers in the second half. “I’m pleased we got a chance to play (backup goalkeeper) Chesley (Garrett),” the coach explained. “We need her to get experience because she has a future in this program, but it’s difficult to give her significant minutes with Allie (Noznesky) being such a significant part of the team.”

Noznesky, last year’s conference player of the year, couldn’t stop Clemson’s blitzkrieg attack that fired bullet after bullet with pinpoint accuracy. “They’re very talented up front,” Hundley said of the Tigers’ offense. “And they have the best midfield pair in the country.”

The Wildcats will look to rebound from their second loss of the season when they visit Campbell Tuesday. They are still without the services of senior tri-captain and stopper Kelly Schmidt, who severely sprained her left ankle in the South Carolina game. Leila Wormuth is still out indefinitely with an MCL injury. Schmidt will be on crutches for 10 days and her status is week to week. “We don’t know if and when she’ll be back,” Hundley said. “It’s up to her and her body.”

By Bratton HOLMES
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s cross country teams competed in their first full meet Saturday at Appalachian State. For the men, Appalachian proved to be too much, claiming six of the top ten spots. This left the remaining three teams — UNC Asheville, Wake Forest-B, and Davidson — competing for a second-place finish. The injury-plagued Wildcats finished fourth.

Tripp Ferrell led Davidson with a time of 27:13, and William Isenhour followed only three seconds behind. The two finished 14th and 15th of the 28 runners. Neil Burt grabbed the No. 3 spot in his first collegiate meet, finishing in 27:21. Victor Tailbird, who suffered a stroke last spring, returned to the team after a summer of rebuilding his stamina and a solid pre-season. He finished sixth among the Davidson runners with a time of 29:02. Senior captains Josh Cookson and Tripp Franklin were both sidelined with injuries.

The women’s meet saw results similar to the men’s. Wake Forest and Navy battled for the first spot, combining to claim nine of the top 10 spots. UNC Asheville pulled away from the pack to claim third, and Appalachian and Tennessee narrowly defeated the Wildcats. Suzy Burr finished first for the squad, and 16th overall out of a field of 27 runners with a time of 19:27. Allie Curran finished second for the Wildcats. A bright spot for Davidson was the performance of rookies Jill Neumayer and Smyth Bitter. They came in third and fourth with times of 20:04 and 20:44, respectively. Co-captain Kelly Kiefer claimed the fifth spot.Spot with a time of 20:56. 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

Liz Reid

"Effort is all there," said Slagle. "We are a young team. We need to learn to play for 90 minutes, and once we do that, we'll be fine."

Before Saturday, the last nine games between Davidson and UNCC had been decided by one goal or less. The 49ers now have a 13-5-5 advantage in the traditional series.

Davidson soccer legend, five years later, helping youths chase dreams

Ukrop from previous page

"It was how far the team could go. I just turned out to be the spokesperson."

Even when Ukrop has been a winner at the pro ranks — his 1995 Kickers won the U.S. Open Cup and the national championship — it hasn’t been with the same passion. But one thing he did particularly well that season — and especially during the postseason — was to take the media spotlight and deflect it towards the rest of the players and fans.

"Rob could push that stuff away more than any other star I’ve ever been around," Spear said. "He built us up and made us feel good about ourselves, made us feel like part of the team, which we were. If he hadn’t done that, we wouldn’t have raised our level and matched his."

There’s a good chance I could be working here right now and not playing," Ukrop explained, referring to one of the nearly 30 grocery stores and grills his family owns in the greater Richmond area. "Everything I have right now is because of that year."

Folks in Davidson remember him as a soccer player — the best this college has ever seen. And rightfully so. But for thousands of schoolchildren here in Virginia, Rob Ukrop is simply known as a role model.

Now a star for the Richmond Kickers of the USISL (United Systems of Interregional Soccer Leagues, the sport’s equivalent of triple-A baseball), he gives inspirational speeches at area schools, using the 1992 Wildcats as rock-solid proof that dreams and dedication are a powerful — and effective — combination.

Because of his on-the-field stardom and off-the-field name and face recognition — he has an ad campaign with the local Arby’s restaurants — Ukrop has gained a certain celebrity status here in Virginia’s capital. So when he speaks, kids listen. And the message he sends is the same one with which he led the 1992 Wildcats: Success is the direct result of hard work. "Dream high. Work harder," as he often says. He also borrows a Thomas Jefferson maxim: "I’m a firm believer in luck. The harder I work, the more I have of it."

"The message he sends to the kids is great," said Alex Deegan, who plays goal for the Kickers and currently lives with Ukrop. "He can make a difference in their lives, which is really nice to see. You don’t see too much of that in this day and age."

"Rob has never had a drop of alcohol in his life, never had a cigarette, never even had a cup of coffee," Spear said. "He has some very important values, and it’s good he can spread those values to kids — that you can be a winner without those things."

"The best thing for me right now is talking to the kids," said Ukrop, who credits Bonnie McAlister’s speech class with giving him the confidence and ability to speak effectively in public. "There are so many problems out there. And my goal is to wake up every day and try to make somebody smile. Hopefully, I can impact and touch somebody’s life every day."

"That’s the best thing we did in my four years (on the soccer team at Davidson) — we made people smile. And that’s what drives me. You can touch people’s lives whether you know it or not."