Women’s soccer ends slump, gets two wins
By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

The Wildcats let out some frustration this weekend while picking up their first wins of the season. After falling to UNC Charlotte 3-1 on Wednesday, Davidson defeated East Tennessee St. 4-0 Saturday and followed that with a 2-0 win over UNC Asheville Sunday.

“I’m real happy with our performance this weekend,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “A lot of things that we knew could happen happened.”

Earlier in the week, the Wildcats faced cross-county rival UNC Charlotte on hostile — and wet — turf. Christina Papp led the 49ers with two goals and an assist. Davidson’s tally came when Amy Kanoff angled a free kick off a UNCC defender and into the net.

Kelly Rennick started the scoring for Davidson Saturday after taking a pass from Mandy Kinane at the 19:57 mark. Kinane then notched two tallies of her own at 23:04 and 62:48. Jennifer Scott put in an unassisted goal with less than four minutes left to make the final 4-0.

The game had barely begun Sunday when Amy Balsinger netted her first score of the year at the 0:36 mark. She later scored on a penalty kick midway through the second half, giving the Wildcats their second victory, 2-0. Goalkeeper Allie Noznesky recorded both shutouts. She now has four this season and 15 in her career.

Notes: The Wildcats look to continue their winning streak when they travel to Georgia on Friday. “It will be a test for us,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “They’re knocking on the door of being a nationally recognized team.” This week the Bulldogs are ranked sixth in the region... Mandy Kinane is the leading scorer on the team with 3 goals and one assist... Amy Kanoff has three assists this season and 25 in her career. She is eight shy of the record set by Claudia Lombard from 1992-1995... After giving up 12 goals in the first two games, Allie Noznesky now has recorded four shutouts and reduced her goals against average to 1.96... Noznesky’s understudy, Chesley Garrett, saw some action in the field Saturday at ETSU... the Wildcats outshot the Buccaneers 28-3... ETSU is now 0-9 in its inaugural season... the Wildcats now stand at 2-5-2.

Super sophomore Gina Lawrence provides an authoritative slam in this week’s action.

The Wildcats, roaring to top of conference
Two wins leave volleyball second in Southern
By Curis TUTTLE
Staff Writer

The volleyball team continued its winning ways Sunday against East Tennessee St. at Belk Arena. In a dramatic, hard-fought match, the Wildcats took the victory in sudden death in the fifth game. This followed a solid 3-1 win Thursday against Appalachian St. The Mountaineers were predicted to finish third in the conference this year, behind Chattanooga and Furman. After playing five league matches, the Wildcats are 4-1 and in second place. Coach Lisa Marston has been quite pleased with the wins and sees the “poise and consistency” they have shown as the sign of “a developing, mature team.”

Sunday’s win was the first time in Marston’s five-year tenure that the team has beaten the Buccaneers. Davidson won a tight first game 16-14, then dropped the next two games, 15-9 and 15-7. But the Wildcats rallied to record a strong 15-9 fourth game victory. The match headed into sudden death, where exchanges normally recorded as side-outs counted as points. Davidson won the rally-scored game 15-9.

Even though Cindy Seegers is out for at least two weeks with an injury, play was highlighted by the outstanding efforts of two freshmen, Mara Mordini and Brooke Bentley. “They didn’t play like freshmen,” Marston said, “and they handled the pressure of an intense match very well.” Teammate Ginny Quis was most impressed with Bentley’s play. “Anything set to her, she put down,” Quis said. “We didn’t start off as well as we could have, but we showed people we could respond to pressure and pick it up when necessary.”

“We're coming together well and improving each game,” Bentley said. “The players are finding their roles as well as getting a good feel for each other’s playing styles.”

Football drops first, loses shootout to Emory & Henry
E & H runs home win streak to 29 as big plays spell doom for Wildcats
By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

EMORY, Va. — In football, you live by the big play and you die by the big play. And the Wildcats’ 14-point loss to Division III powerhouse Emory & Henry Saturday here at Fullerton Field was no exception to that cliché. Six of the touchdowns scored came on plays of at least 54 yards. A 70-yard blocked field goal return by Clif Henry started the shootout with 9:31 left in the first quarter. Emory & Henry’s Larry Arwood put the Wasps up in the second quarter with a 70-yard touchdown run of his own after recovering a fumble.And then there was the fourth quarter. After a 28-yard pass from the Wasps’ Aaron Brand to Aaron Fuller for a touchdown, the Wildcats came right back and cut the lead to seven with a 98-yard kickoff return by Roland Williams. “I dropped the ball and then picked it up,” Williams said. “I looked around and tried to get to the outside. And then I ran up the sidelines, juked the kicker, and scored. We played a good game, we just didn’t get enough points on the board in the end.” Less than a minute later, Nathan Tuck caught a pass from Brand for a 65-yard scoring play, but the high-octane action still wasn’t over. The Wildcats roared back with a 54-yard touchdown pass, as quarterback Tommy Dugan found Williams in the end zone to cut the Wasp lead back to seven. The Wasps then put it away on the following play with a 90-yard kickoff return by Oliver Jordan. Amazingly, all of these plays in the fourth quarter happened in a mere 2:16. The Wildcats amassed 396 yards of total offense, but it wasn’t enough against Emory & Henry, which had 497 total yards, 294 of which came on the ground. Dugan had an outstanding day, going 20-for-33 for 358 yards with one touchdown and three interceptions. He also scrambled for an 11-yard touchdown in the second quarter. This game ended the Wildcats’ winning streak at five games. But, as coach Tim Landis said, “We can take out some real positives from this loss.” “We can score points against one of the best teams in the country, and we play hard,” he said. “I think we showed that today, we never gave up. We kept fighting. Even though we got beat, I think we can use this as a springboard to the remaining games on our schedule.” The Wildcats had plenty of chances to give up, but they never did. When they were down 14-7 in the second quarter, they came back and scored a touchdown. Down 28-14, they came back and scored another touchdown to cut the lead to seven. When they were down 35-21, Williams ran back the kickoff. And trailing 42-28, Dugan found Williams for a 54-yard touchdown. But Emory and Henry never let the Wildcats tie the game after getting the lead in the second half. Every time the Wildcats cut the lead back to seven, the Wasps roared right back and scored with their rushing game, led by a huge offensive line and Oliver Jordan, a talented back. “As good as they are stopping the run on defense, they are that good running the ball on offense,” Landis said. “We knew that they were going to get some yardage running the ball, and we knew we were going to just have to hang in there and create some turnovers, which we did. I thought we played awfully hard, and I thought we played well. But we made some mistakes, and in the long run they took advantage of it. And that helped determine the outcome of the game.”

ALSO INSIDE
Sounding off. Perturbed at Cantrell’s comments last week, six parties respond with strong opinions of their own. Letters to the sports editor, page 13.

Aerial attack. Behind the strong arm of quarterback Tommy Dugan, the football team showed passing prowess in this weekend's loss at Emory & Henry. Football notebook, page 14.

Harriers have best showing of the season. The cross country teams had their best performances of the fall Saturday in the Greensboro Invitational. Story, page 13.

Field hockey falls to Appalachian. In a game moved from Davidson to Boone because of rain, the Mountaineers topped the Wildcats. Story, page 13.

SCOREBOARD
Emory & Henry 49, Wildcats 35

Men’s soccer
Richmond 2, Wildcats 1

Women’s soccer
UNC Charlotte 3, Wildcats 1
Wildcats 4, East Tennessee St. 0
Wildcats 2, UNC Asheville 0

Field hockey
Appalachian St. 3, Wildcats 1

Volleyball
Wildcats 3, Appalachian St. 1
Wildcats 3, East Tennessee St. 2

Cross Country
Women: 3rd at the Greensboro Invitational
Men: 5th at the Greensboro Invitational

Ginny Quis
Volleyball So. * S/RS
Quis has spearheaded the Wildcats’ surge into the Southern Conference elite this fall. In Sunday's game against East Tennessee St., the sophomore sensation had a triple-double, collecting 10 kills, 29 assists, and 15 digs.

Football
Saturday @ Guilford (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM, WSAT 1280 AM)

Men’s Soccer
Tomorrow at UNC Greensboro (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday vs. Central Florida (2:00 p.m.)

Women’s Soccer
Friday @ Georgia (4:00 p.m.)

Volleyball
Today vs. UNC Asheville (7:00 p.m.)
Friday vs. Western Carolina (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday vs. Chattanooga (3:00 p.m.)

Field Hockey
Thursday vs. Catawba (4:30 p.m.)
Sunday vs. Appalachian St. (1:00 p.m.)

Cross Country
Saturday @ Georgia Southern

Volleyball vs. Chattanooga
Sunday @ Belk Arena @ 3:00 p.m.
Coach Lisa Marston's Wildcats host the league’s top preseason pick in the Chattanooga Mocs. The surprising squad enters tonight's game with non-conference foe UNC Asheville in second place in the Southern Conference with a 4-1 league mark.