2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEF

Burger King in Cornelius held up by suicidal gunman

A gunman attempted to rob the Burger King in Cornelius last Friday, but his plan failed as he killed himself after releasing the store’s customers. Twenty-year-old Cleveland Davis walked into the store and bought a soda. After he drank it, he proceeded to hold up the restaurant. As soon as some employees saw the gun, they rushed out the back to call authorities. A hostage negotiator got Davis to release his captives for some cigarettes. After some more bargaining and negotiating, phone contact was lost. The SWAT team entered the building to find Davis had shot himself in the head.

NEWS

-MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

Source: Charlotte Observer

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA
1997 New Members

Kelly S. Ammann
Rachel Hope Anderson
Renu Mukund Bhatt
Catherine Jean Blackburn
Elizabeth Anne Boehmler
Jean Porter Boehmler
Katherine Joyner Brasfield
Heather Kathryn Brown
Jared W. Nelson Chandler
Kathleen Elizabeth Cook
John H. Copenhaver
Thomas Christian Currie
Jacob Andrew Darling
Benjamin Michael DeLisa
Berna Demiralp
Lucian Emery Dervan
Matthew Jay Ellis
Ned Sarchet Erickson
George Kevin Escaravage, Jr.
Jenny Melissa Everett
James Chadwick Fogleman
Sara E. Gebhardt
Katherine Frost Greene
Charles Wesley Hart, Jr.
Ann Beattie Hatfield
Susannah Snively Herndon
Charlotte Louise Hildebrand
Garey Harrill Huff, Jr.
Frank Andreas Killian
Amy Kristine Lindstrom
Elizabeth Lindsay Maney
Mary Catherine Morehead
Kathleen Elizabeth Nelson
Susan Trace Plummer
Donna Tracy Privette
Nathan Ward Raley
Eric Manley Sapp
Sulakshana Srinivasan
Erin Emily Steffensmeier
Jill S. Stephenson
Jessica Kay Stetler
Catherine Waybright Stevens
Dominick J. Talvacchio
Morgan Michael Todd
Carrie Elizabeth Van Deest

The initiation ceremony and banquet for new members will be on February 26.

In focus ... NEW PROFESSOR

Avinger enjoys students’ energy

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

After 19 years in the entrepreneurial business, Economics Professor Bob Avinger is once again a professor at Davidson. Avinger taught at Davidson from 1967 until 1980, when he decided to go into private business full time. Avinger has returned to Davidson for the spring semester because the Economics Department needed help teaching all of the classes that were offered.

Avinger graduated from Davidson with a double major in history and economics and earned his doctorate from Duke University. He decided to become an economics professor partly because he “had a few mentors at Davidson, including Charles Ratcliff of the Economics Department. As an economics professor I am able to enjoy both the academic life and entrepreneurial world.” Avinger continues to work in private business while teaching.

Avinger enjoys many outdoor activities in his free time, including slow-pitch softball and skiing.

“When I was a professor here before, Davidson professors had one of the best slow-pitch teams around. We won the championship almost every year,” he says.

Avinger also enjoys reading “almost anything” and watching Jeopardy.

“The thing that makes teaching really rewarding is the students at Davidson,” Avinger adds. He enjoys teaching small classes of “energetic, intelligent, diligent students.” Avinger adds that the students are just as much fun to teach as they were when he first taught at Davidson.

Computer service is going online

By AINSLEY HINES
Staff Writer

Computer Services at Davidson has created a listserv to update students on the latest internship and job offers. Tony Butchello, assistant director of Career Services, says that students will be given access to the latest information in the jobs.

“It will have anything we get across our desk that we think would be interesting to students,” says Butchello.

A listserv is a way to distribute email according to the particular interests of the users of a system.

Things got pretty competitive for this job. I’m sure my college degree and good grades kept me in the running. But in the end it was the leadership and management experience I got through Army ROTC that won them over. Army ROTC taught me responsibility, self-discipline, and leadership. Those are things you just can't learn from a textbook. I don't know where I'd be right now if I hadn't enrolled in Army ROTC, but I do know one thing for sure ...I wouldn't be here.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For details, visit Room 2, Basement of Belk Hall or call 892-2165

Addressing a message to a listserv sends a duplicate copy of the message to everyone registered to the listserv.

Signing up for a listserv requires typing a series of simple commands via email. There are listservs for just about anything, from Cajun cooking to rocket science.

Bill Felty, associate director of Career Services, hopes students will list job opportunities that they think might interest others, as well. “We want students to post things that are relevant for others,” says Felty.

In order to prevent large amounts of mail reaching students on jobs and events that do not interest them, Career Services plans on titling each subject with a message pertaining to the topic such as “Junior females seeking internship in hotel management.”

The listserv was inspired over Winter Break during a Career Services meeting. Butchello explained that Career Services gets hundreds of updates on open internships every day and that they wanted a way to contact students about the latest updates.

Felty suggested that they create a listserv. While working at the University of Kentucky, Felty created a universal listserv called JobPlace.

This listserv is now used by Career Service departments all over the country. Together, with help from the Computer Services department, the Career Services listserv was created.

SIMPSON AUTOMOTIVE

Foreign & Domestic Auto

Oil Change — $16.95

Free Brake Inspections - Most Cars. Offer not valid w/ any other coupons. Coupon expires 3-1-97