THE DAVIDSONIAN

Men’s soccer drops pair
By Dante Motz, Senior Staff Writer

Wisc.-Mil. 3 Wildcats 2

The men’s soccer team kicked off its season with a frustrating showing at the Wisconsin Soccer Classic in Madison, Wis. The Wildcats fell 3-2 in a pair of contests, losing to Wisconsin — the 1995 NCAA champions — in sudden death overtime Friday and to Wisconsin-Milwaukee Sunday.

Against the Badgers, the Wildcats held a 2-1 advantage with 22 minutes remaining in regulation as Andrew Holbrook scored his first varsity goal. But Wisconsin tied the game in the 78th minute, as Doug Watson deposited a deflection into the cage. Eleven minutes into the first sudden death overtime period, Kareem Aal struck for the game-winner. Davidson’s first goal was scored by Drew Lindsey.

On Sunday, Wisconsin-Milwaukee, who on Friday performed impressively against Florida International, currently ranked fifth in the country, defeated Davidson despite goals from Phil Julien and David Buehler.

Sports

Wednesday night at Richardson Field.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1997

Anna Judy & Rhina Roberts streaks by a defender in exhibition action

Wildcats fall to Gamecocks.
By Jay Cantrell, Sports Editor

COLUMBIA, S.C. — Last year, the women’s soccer team upset South Carolina behind the performances of freshmen Amy Balsinger and Ginny Dye. This season, the Gamecocks returned the favor as their star rookie, Jessica Workman, scored two goals to lead USC.

Within the first 10 minutes, captain Kelly Schmidt went down with a sprained left ankle, leaving the Wildcats with a hole to fill. “That was the difference,” coach Kevin Hundley said. “Without Kelly, they were quicker than we were.”

Davidson struck first on a goal by Dye. The play was set up when Amy Kanoff sent a corner kick to Balsinger, who tapped it towards Dye. The Gamecocks scored two quick goals, though, to take a 2-1 halftime lead. After the break, Wildcat rookie Mandy Kinane notched her first career tally. But the Gamecocks scored the eventual game-winner less than two minutes later. “At this level, when you make a mistake, they punish you,” Hundley added.

Schmidt’s ankle will keep her out indefinitely. Leila Wormuth suffered an MCL injury Saturday in practice and will also be out indefinitely.

Cover Story from previous page

all smothered us. I swear to God, I thought I was going to die. Sampers was on his back and our faces were mashed together. It was scary. I remember that very well, thinking, ‘This is hilarious. We're actually going to die because we’re celebrating too much.’

God-like tendencies

The Wildcats didn’t like Coastal Carolina one bit. The 1992 Chanticleers were a sketchy bunch, questionable at best. Several Coastal players had been suspended earlier in the season after they were found to have played professionally in Europe. Others’ eligibility remained debatable, and many wondered out loud why the NCAA had even granted the Chanticleers a bid in the first place. In addition, they had personally angered Slagle before the season ever began, vehemently refusing to reschedule the two teams’ Oct. 24 meeting. As a result, the Wildcats were forced to travel to Conway, S.C., a mere week after the UCLA trip and less than 24 hours after they had hosted Georgia Southern in a league matchup. This, more so than even the UNCC clash, was a grudge match.

“We couldn’t stand Coastal,” Spear said. “They were really big jerks. They would talk crap to you, hit you while you were down, that kind of thing. We just thought there was no way we should lose to these guys. They weren’t worthy as people of moving on.”

But after 150 minutes of play in miserable conditions on a muddy, almost icy surface at Richardson Field, Davidson and Coastal stood deadlocked at 0-0. Once again, the Wildcats were forced into a shootout for the right to advance. And, if it hadn’t already, this is where Davidson’s storybook run reached make-believe proportions. On three separate occasions, a Chanticleer had the opportunity to win it with a single kick, and was in each instance denied by the 5-foot-9-inch Deegan, who stuffed Coastal’s fifth, seventh, and ninth attempts.

“Stopping three in a row was just miraculous,” Spear said. “I think he sensed our strength and we sensed his. I mean, that was way, way beyond normal.”

Slagle went a step further: “We were looking at Deegan’s genealogy at that point to see if he had any God-like tendencies.”

“I just couldn’t believe we were in that situation. I was struggling to keep myself in check emotionally,” said Deegan, who can be seen in clips muttering to himself before and after each kick. “Luck was on my side. Maybe I made my own luck, but luck definitely played a great part in that.”

Finally, after freshman Ryan Northington converted Davidson’s 10th try, Deegan ended the insanity by tipping Billy Johnstone’s shot onto the crossbar, where it hung for a second — “an eternity,” as Deegan said — before it finally spun onto the top of the netting and stayed there.

“He realizes he’s won the game and starts sprinting around the field with most of the student population following him,” Slagle said. “It was quite a sight.”

“I was running for fear of getting trampled,” Deegan explained.

And Davidson, the season having by this point extended beyond even its wildest dreams, was headed for the round of eight.

Triple-teamed

One game away from the Final Four, State’s game plan was simple: Shut down Ukrop, shut down Davidson. EarlyIn the game, Ukrop — the country’s leading scorer that season with 31 goals and 10 assists — came over to the Wildcat sideline to get some water. Three members of the Wolfpack followed him.

“It was a real nice compliment,” Ukrop said. “I asked them if they wanted any.”

And, for the most part, the strategy worked, as Davidson couldn’t put the ball in the back of the net. Problem was, State couldn’t score either, as the Wildcats — with some more Deegan magic — held the high-octane Wolfpack in check through two overtimes. Finally, at the 131:47 mark in sudden death, Spear took a free kick from the right corner. In the middle of the pack, the ball landed on Ukrop’s chest — virtually the first time he had been left alone all afternoon — and the superstar drilled it low and through a crowd. Game, set, match.

“It’s not really a dream come true,” Ukrop told the Raleigh News & Observer. “Because I never even dreamed about this.”

“We were going home anyway,” Slagle said after the game. “To be playing is great.”

From the library | Alex Yannis covered the Wildcats’ run for the New York Times and has since started writing for the New York/New Jersey MetroStars of Major League Soccer. “The MetroStars’ home opener in 1996 was against the New England Revolution, for which Ukrop then played and started. A crowd of 48,000 showed up at the Meadowlands. After the game, Yannis spotted Ukrop and struck up a conversation.

“That was a great crowd,” he said. “But the loudest I’ve ever heard a crowd was when you guys (Davidson) scored your first goal against San Diego (in the national semi).”

That goal, a header by Ben Hayes, gave the Wildcats a 1-0 lead a mere 7:51 into the contest and sent the Richardson Field crowd of 8,150 — not counting the hundreds of students watching from the top of Duke and through the windows of the library — into a state of hysteria. But the Toreros, battling the crowd just as much as they were the Wildcats themselves, responded with almost back-to-back goals — the equalizer at 37:30 and the go-ahead tally at 38:44 — to take a 2-1 halftime lead. The game stayed that way until the 61:34 mark, when San Diego’s Alex Streicek inadvertently pushed the ball past Torero keeper Scott Garlick into his own goal, tying the game at 2-2.

“I was looking over my shoulder at that point,” Slagle said. “There was no question in my mind that, when they put the own goal in, we were going to win this game.”

But San Diego ended up being the one to score in the second OT, as the Toreros advanced to Sunday’s final against powerhouse Virginia.

‘22 Educated Feet’

The Cavaliers knocked off USD, but the storyline that weekend remained the Wildcats, a team which mesmerized the nation on a four-week ride of ideals. With everything that is wrong with college sports these days, Davidson’s 1992 soccer team was right.

“We did it in what I would call the old-fashioned way,” Slagle said. “These guys were all students. There was nobody who was recruited on scholarship, and only a couple guys were getting financial aid.”

They were, as a New York Times headline said, “22 Educated Feet.” Members of the team attended class Friday morning — the biggest game of their lives less than 12 hours away — and many took tests, a concept that, at the very least, intrigued the national media.

“That made it all the more satisfying,” Slagle added. “To the casual observer, they figured we had to have scholarships and people who barely qualified academically. But that wasn’t true. Soccer just happened to be one extra thing they did while at school.”

Which is exactly why the experience was so special for everyone involved — from students to professors to administrators to alums to townspeople. The 22 members of that team were soccer players, indeed, but they were also fraternity brothers, student government officers, and average Joes. They were students of Davidson College first, soccer players second.

“We did it for them (students, faculty, and administrators),” Spear explained. “We were trained by them. We learned from them. They were our idols, and we didn’t want to be idolized by them.

“We were carrying the flag for Davidson College. Not only for us and our coaches and our families and for the other athletes, but for the whole student body. We wanted them to feel like they were part of it.”

And they did. Perhaps the Davidsonian’s Matt Bumstead captured that sentiment best in his column on Jan. 25, 1993.

“None of us will soon, if ever, forget the sound of a cannon-like thud, the look of fear in a hapless defender’s eyes, and the image of 1992’s top scorer running past the crowd, pumping his fist or holding his arms out to us as if to say, ‘That was for you, Davidson,’” he wrote. “Nor will we forget that little blur of yellow that flew through the air in ways we thought only happened in movies, and somehow kept the ball out of the goal...

“You played out our greatest fantasies on the soccer field. Every week, you faced Goliath, you drilled him, and you took us with you...

“Maybe the soccer team showed us a real light in a place we never would have thought to look. Thanks, guys. You did us proud.”