2 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Priorities Poll Results

The SGA distributed approximately 1000 copies of a Priorities Poll in February. About 600 were given for senators to distribute
door-to-door across campus, 200 were available at a table on the landing at Vail Commons, and 200 were placed on
a table in the center of the first floor of Chambers. Though 50 results were lost, 306 polls were tallied.
The results from 256 polls follow.

Top priority for SGA attention:
- Academic policies: 13.57%
- Social options: 13.36%
- Living facilities: 13.02%
- Technology: 12.86%
- Intra-campus communication: 9.54%
- Athletic facilities: 9.23%
- Campus safety: 9.20%
- Vail Commons: 9.00%
- Town relations: 8.68%
- Specified others*: 1.55%

Is the laundry a good value?
- yes: 84.48%
- no: 13.79%
- maybe: 1.72%

Percentage of total polls received by class:
- 2000: 35%
- 1999: 33%
- 1998: 23%
- 1997: 9%

*Specified others: Performing arts/art/music facilities, (Community) Service, Unity/better group interaction on campus, Tuition control, Union, Academic options and viability, BTI,
Class scheduling, Environmental issues, Food quality/variety, Library, Parking, Phi society, Track, Transportation, Trees, RLO, Dorm wiring, Lottery and housing options,
More study areas.

If you would like more information on the poll, please contact Sandy Neblett.

Food to cost $700 at SGA Day

The food for the Student Government Association’s annual SGA Day will cost $700. The money comes from a special allocations
fund that the SGA set up after receiving extra funds for the year. It is a special projects fund that
holds $1,700.

Town council meetings can be attended by students

Liz Boehmler (Warner Hall Senator) and Julie Chevalier (Freshman Senator) encouraged students to attend Town Council meetings at the last
SGA meeting. They said that public concerns could be voiced during a five-minute time for citizens to speak. Dean Thomas
Shandley reported that students could use that opportunity to state what should occupy the former Cosmic Coffeehouse.

NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Kidd donates bone marrow

After four years on registry, senior gets tapped

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

At the end of January, senior Kristen Kidd walked away from the post office with a letter that would drastically
change the way she spent her time for a few months and would forever influence her life. The letter was
from the Red Cross. She was, it said, a potential match for someone who needed a bone marrow transplant.

“I just remember shaking,” Kidd says. “It was a really, really strange feeling.” When she was typed for Project Life
during her freshman year, she didn’t put much thought into it. She remembers people telling her that the chances of
getting matched were so small that she would probably never get called.

After receiving the letter, it was her turn to call the Red Cross. They told her that the potential bone
marrow recipient was a 28-year-old male suffering from leukemia. A transplant was his best chance of survival. The Red Cross
wanted her and three other individuals to come in for further testing to see who was the closest match. Kidd
quickly agreed to the further testing. Eleven vials of blood were sent off for testing, and the Red Cross told
her that it could be months before she found out if she was the closest match. In fact, it was
only about two weeks later that they called to tell her that she was the best match.

The Red Cross asked if she was willing to proceed further. She was, and the Red Cross asked her to
come in for a physical and an information session. At Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, a battery of tests was run
on Kidd under the instruction of an oncologist. The information session included the viewing of an emotionally intense video, telling
the stories of six individuals who needed bone marrow transplants. “I remember that being particularly hard,” Kidd says. She was
also counseled individually by Red Cross personnel. She and the counselor asked each other a variety of questions to determine
whether or not Kidd was right for and ready for the procedure.

Kidd recollects that the atmosphere of the session was, “If you want to do this, you need to be committed
to it. This needs to be important to you.” Kidd says that the counselor was very informative, kind, and helpful.
“She tried to talk me out of it, but by this time she knew that I was pretty well committed
to it.”

Before leaving Presbyterian Hospital that day, they decided to set a potential date for the surgery. Because of their protocol,
the procedure had to be done on a Thursday. They set the tentative date for March 27. No wrinkles showed
up in the plan, so that date was...Confirmed. The day before the operation, Kidd and her mother went to Winston-Salem,
where they ran a few more tests and met with the anesthesiologist to determine the anesthetic procedure. That night, Kidd
had a big steak dinner to get her previously low iron levels up. When asked if she was nervous, Kidd
answers, “I still wasn’t really thinking about it.” The next morning she got up very early for her 7 a.m.
surgery. Even at the hospital that morning, she wasn’t worried. “I never got nervous. I think I’d been so desensitized
to needles because they were sticking me all the time.” In addition to various tests over the weeks, Kidd had
also donated two pints of her own blood so they could replenish her after the operation. She was under anesthesia
for about an hour and fifteen minutes. During that time, there was a physician on either side of her, extracting
bone marrow from the left and right sides of her pelvis. When she came back into consciousness, she says that
she was surprised by how badly her hips hurt. “I woke up at 8:15 and was asking for morphine by
9:00,” she says. Hours after the surgery, the Red Cross called to let Kidd know that her bone marrow was
being processed and that it would be transplanted into the recipient late that night.

Kristen Kidd Day of Decision

Despite rain, Davidson tries to shine
By Naresh Nagella

Now accepting qualified egg donors

You can help infertile couples conceive by becoming an egg donor. The Institute for Assisted Reproduction, a private infertility clinic
in Charlotte, NC, is seeking women between the ages of 21 and 34 as donor candidates. Qualified egg donors will
receive $1,800 in compensation for the significant amount of time and energy involved. Health and psychological screening is required at
no charge. To learn how you can become a donor, call (704) 342-8235.

Associate News Editor

Even with the rain, the spirits of prospective students were not dampened as the College held its annual Decision Davidson
last Saturday. The event is exclusively for accepted students. The program lasts all day and allows the prospectives to hear
from campus leaders, to talk with professors, and to get to know the campus. Davidson is unique in that it
sets aside a day for all its accepted students to learn about its campus. Almost none of the larger universities
have such an option. The trend is starting to become more prevalent among liberal arts colleges. A total of 239
students came to campus. 1149 students, whose 25th and 75th percentile of their SAT scores were between 1280-1430, were accepted
from a record application pool of 3182 students. The new Life Sciences building could not come any sooner. Over 170
of the students expressed interest in a science major. “It is a good show. For this weather, it was fascinating,”
says Assistant Dean of Admissions Deborah Hogg. Of course, now comes the job of enrolling them. As the College desires
to grow larger in size, the admissions office tries its best to enroll as many of the students as possible.
For the last four years that has meant classes of over 400 people. Based on reactions from some of the
prospectives, Decision Davidson seems to work. “I enjoyed talking in depth with some students. I really got a sense of
the campus I would not have been able to gain otherwise. Plus, I felt that they were very honest in
their statements,” says Philip Grant. Morgan Wilson likes the College’s support of students who want to go abroad. “I am
glad to know that the College encourages going abroad. I learned my tuition can directly transfer over to pay for
the College’s own study abroad programs,” she says. The students heard speeches from Cynthia Lewis, chairperson of the English department
and President Kuykendall. Lewis encouraged the students to attend because “(they will be) drawn to community,” and will participate in
“the joy of self-discovery.” Kuykendall listed numerous ways in which the College supports and challenges its students. For example, he
said, “Don’t even think about coming to Davidson if you do not want to examine the premises of your spiritual
life within a culture that nurtures but does not coerce belief.” Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable says, “Despite the weather,
we are thrilled with how the day went.” “No other college has treated me so nicely and helped so much
after accepting me than Davidson,” said one high school senior as she left for home.
