THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

We are writing because we have reservations and concerns with the proposed idea to bring sororities to Davidson. We are
unsatisfied with assertions that sororities would not disturb Davidson’s principles of self-selection. Those who have advocated sororities’ arrival have likened
Davidson life with sororities and eating houses to Princeton University, a school in which both eating houses and sororities coexist.
There are, however, some fundamental differences between Princeton and Davidson.

First of all, Princeton is much larger. Princeton’s undergraduate program has about 5000 students. In a school so large, it
is understandable that students would need to have more associations and outlets for making friends, allowing the school to seem
a little less overwhelming and large. In addition, Princeton students do not join eating houses until the second semester of
their sophomore year. They have a year and a half in which sororities are their only option for such an
organization.

Secondly, Princeton’s eating houses are co-ed. Their need for the sororities may stem from a lack of all-female organizations, of
which Davidson has three. When advocates assert that bringing sororities to Davidson will not compete or threaten the eating houses,
citing Princeton as proof, they seem to ignore this fundamental difference between the two.

Finally, and most importantly, Princeton’s eating houses do not operate on the basis of self-selection. Their eating houses have an
extensive rush and they are highly selective organizations. It is this principle of self-selection that we see as the chief
reason why sororities and eating houses at Davidson, as presented, are incompatible. When looking at colleges, we all were faced
with the choice of what school we wanted to attend. Various factors play into our decisions: money, location, reputation, class
sizes, faculty, etc. Social life is also one of those factors that a prospective student must investigate.

Implicit in the notion of sororities, however, is the notion of rush. We know, “rush is not a four-letter word,”
but we also know that rush cannot coexist with our current principles of self-selection for women. According to Davidson’s policies,
we will not be pressured in any way to join a certain house. As Davidson females, we are also assured
of the right to join whatever eating house we choose, regardless of whether or not that house chooses us. These
principles of self-selection are what make our school unique, and, furthermore, they make our school wonderful.

If, as a freshman arriving on campus, one of us is “encouraged” to join a particular sorority and one of
us is not, or one of us is not accepted into the sorority of our choice and one of us
is, then what kind of atmosphere does that create for the freshman class? Competition and cliques are not what this
school should be about. In addition, what effect will sororities have on our eating houses? The advocates say none, but
let’s be realistic. When fall rolls around and it is time to start hand-picking girls to join your club, do
you think that having a majority of the girls in one sorority be in Rusk and the other sorority be
in Connor won’t affect their decision over what house to self-select? If we were rejected from a predominantly Connor sorority,
would we feel comfortable putting down Connor as our first choice? This comfort and open atmosphere is something that we
cherish in our Davidson experience. Even supposing that there were limits on the proportion of girls that could be in
one sorority from the same house, preventing the above problem, what effect will that have on self-selection? We join Pi
Beta Phi and then Warner Hall and then next year we need a group of our Pi-Phi girls to select
Rusk, not because they want to, but because they have to for our numbers. We would hate to see sororities
act as feeder clubs into particular eating houses, or vice versa.

When we chose to come to Davidson, we were well aware of the self-selection system here. We were fully informed
that there were no sororities at Davidson. Such factors were a large part of our decision. We applaud the principles
of self-selection because, when followed, they help maintain an open atmosphere on the court and throughout the school. We understand
the advocates of sororities would like them for many reasons. One such reason is the connections that one makes outside
of Davidson. We agree that it is frustrating when someone has an edge over you in the job market because
they were in the same sorority as the potential employer. However, we knew this was not an option when we
chose Davidson. In addition, what does that really say? Does anyone really want to be sitting in a job interview
saying, “Oh, you were a Kappa too!” What does that mean? A sorority’s profile differs from school to school—what do
you really have in common with that person? Surely a Davidson student has more going for them that they can
sell to a potential employer than that. Davidson, like it or not, is not really a big-name school. We could
have chosen to go to another school with less quality but a bigger name if that is what we wanted,
but we didn’t value the name, we valued the school. We like being able to explain to someone that we
are not in Chi-Omega because we have a system unique to Davidson.You say that we should “be able to have
both.” We agree. If Davidson had a fancy reputation without ruining its quality, that would be ideal. Likewise, if we
could have the fancy Greek letters without ruining the quality of our existing system, that too would be ideal, but
we value the spirit of self-selection too much to compromise it for sororities.

The other day, I was talking to a friend of mine about a mutual acquaintance, and she said, “You know,
he’s nice.” At the mention of that word, my eyes narrowed, my lip twisted into a sneer, and I said
something along the lines of, “God-a’ mighty, I know. I can’t stand people who are nice. I hope no one
describes me as being nice.” Now, you might be thinking I’m a damn fool for saying something like that, but
let me explain myself.

Nice is such a little old nothing of a word. It’s what you say when you don’t have anything particularly
good or bad to say about a person, place, thing, event, or idea. Nice is bland, boring, benign, and blah;
it’s dull, drab, dreary, and downright depressing. It slides out of your mouth like the yellow running out of a
fried egg’s burst yolk. It’s a little puff of air with a sibilant at the end hissing quietly and unobtrusively
so as not to offend anybody’s delicate sensibilities. If you describe someone as sweet or cute or lovely, it’s bad
enough, but nice is even worse. It’s definitely not negative, but it isn’t positive either; it’s a light smudge of
gray. It means that a person hasn’t made a big enough impression on you to think of a way to
describe what they’re really like.

You might be objecting and saying, “But when I say ‘nice,’ it means something else, like a person’s hot, you
know?” Okay, I’ll concede that the word can have that meaning, but when you mean that, you say, “Ni-ice,” drawing
out the I and almost making it into two syllables. I’m not talking about the two-syllable Ni-ice here, but the
single-syllable nice, which should be printed in a tiny, mousy little font, rather than one the same size as the
rest of the words in this sentence. The one-syllable nice is like the one-syllable fine. “How are you today?” someone
might ask, and if you say, “Fine,” we all know that you aren’t necessarily having a lousy day or a
good one; you’re not sure and just pretend to give an answer. Just like nice, fine means something else entirely
when you say, “Fi-ine,” but that’s usually in a sentence like, “She’s fi-ine.” You might answer the question, “How are
you doing?” with, “I’m doing fi-ine,” but only if you’re hammered out of your gourd on a bottle of Colt
45 and are trying to be cool like the smooth operator you are.

Another objection might be that not everybody uses nice when they don’t have anything genuine or substantial to say. If
you’re saying this right now, you’re right; there’s an exception to most every rule, and in this case, there’s a
generational exception. When a kind old grandparently person calls you a nice young man or woman, that kind old grandparently
person is paying you a compliment and thinks you’re okay. Seeing as how no students here fit into that category,
at least as far as I know, let’s just stick to the situation at hand and think about niceness on
a collegiate level, all right?

Now, I’ve been called a lot of things, but as far as I know, I’ve never been called nice, and
I hope I never am. I keep a pretty good ear to the grapevine, and it turns out that there
are a couple dozen interesting, contradictory, and mostly false rumors running around about me, but I’d rather have it that
way than a general feeling and opinion that I’m a nice guy. I’m sometimes called a pothead, a scammer, a
shmooze, a homophobe, a Republican, a Democrat, a fundamentalist, an atheist, a frat-boy wanna-be, a terribly fierce anti-fraternity ess oh
be, and a sexist pig. None of these names is accurate or correct, but I’d rather be called any of
them than nice.

I’m sometimes called decent, friendly, funny, intelligent, interesting, creative, cranky, irritating, aggravating, exasperating, paternalistic, megalomaniacal, egotistical, boastful, narcissistic, self-centered, obnoxious,
silly, mean-spirited, raw, blunt, rude, tactless, wild, dumb, confusing, confused, reckless, thoughtless, brainless, heartless, close-minded, impolite, inconsiderate, inconsistent, and irresponsible.
As far as I can tell, these words are all fairly accurate to one degree or another, and I prefer
any one of them to nice.

I’m sometimes called a decent writer, okay cartoonist, close friend, comedian, storyteller, clown, butthead, bunghole, prick, fool, drunkard, redneck, white
trash, weirdo, pissant, goofball, rambler, ay-hole, shtufhead, loudmouth, or trouble-starter. I can live with any of these, seeing as how
they’re pretty much true, but I just can’t live with nice.

Don’t be nice. Hell, be a jerk or be kind or be geeky or be cool, but be something. Just
as Mark Twain said, “One must keep one’s character. Earn a character first if you can, and if you can’t,
then assume one.” I know, I know - as you’re reading this, you might be saying, “But Greg, I am
nice.” Well friend, if you are, there’s no time to change like right now.

Write for Opinions

Submissions are welcome from students, faculty, staff, and members of the community. Submit articles on Macintosh WordPerfect disks to the
Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union. Opinions, like life, is what you make it!
