THE DAVIDSONIAN

I’m sure you’ve heard a black person say: “We have to work twice as hard to get as far as
a white person!” Because Black History Month is a time for reflection and recognition, I believe now is a good
time to wonder, aloud, what that statement truly implies. The existence of such a month acknowledges the continual struggle we
are forced to fight. To work twice as hard to get as far doesn’t mean just taking extra exams, writing
extra papers, or completing more presentations. It means the added struggle of overcoming stereotypes. And it means the fight for
true recognition. It means the need to prepare for “That Night.”

This is how I envision That Night unfolding: It is about 1:30 a.m. I am driving down a fairly deserted
street, coming home from another late night at the office, when suddenly, my rear-view mirror screams blue. I look back
and see two police vehicles urging me to stop. The scene baffles me. I am not speeding. I am not
drinking. No swerving. Even my seatbelt rests comfortably on my shoulder. “Oh, it must be a routine stop. I guess
this happens a lot in high crime areas.” I pull to the side of the street, roll down my window,
and before I could ask “What's wro...”, I feel a piece of cold steel on my left cheek. It is
the pistol of the white officer who rushes to my door as I stop. He orders me to get out
with my hands up. Needless to say, I heed his command and am violently thrown onto the hood of my
car. As I lay there, face first, the white officer seizes my wrists and begins wrapping them with more cold
steel. As I am being handcuffed, a black officer walks up to me, grabs the back of my neck, and
says, fairly calmly but matter-of-factly, “Nigger, if I feel as much as a small twitch, I'll blow your brains out.”

It seems with every word, his voice grows larger. And the larger it grows, the more he seems to envelop
my very being. I long for my end. The cuffs are on. Then I am on the ground. And soon,
black boot after black boot rains down on my essence. And with every kick, I see the gushing of my
blood. With every hit, I feel the cracking of my bones. My body aches with agony and my heart aches
with shame, as blow after blow threatens my very existence. I roll. I crouch. I become a fetus. But nothing
stops, could stop this violence. Nothing could stop this hate. And before I blackout, all I hear, all I can
make out, are a few words: “We don't need no loud niggers getting our good niggers riled-up over no damn
civil rights...”

I wake up the next morning in a hospital and see a newspaper by my bed with the lead reading:
“Civil Rights Leader mugged by a gang of six black youth...”

Have you imagined That Night lately? You know, That Night? Maybe here’s where my white readers can stop reading, because
if you have black skin in this country, the importance of That Night can never be overestimated because it is
still all too real. Black History Month should be used to celebrate our beautiful black history. It should be a
time to recognize the achievements we have made and the long ways we have come. Our proud heritage isn’t celebrated
enough. But That Night must be recognized as well. That Night could have been several nights during the height of
the civil rights movement. And maybe more sadly, That Night could have been last night, or tonight as I type
these words.

I suppose you have the luxury of never having to recognize That truth. Or maybe here’s where you can begin
listening. Maybe you don’t even believe That could ever happen, but it has and still does. All cops aren’t racist,
and all violence isn’t racially motivated. But one bad cop like Officer Furman or Koon, or one incident—such as The
Night that a Gaffney, South Carolina, man was harassed, shot, and killed by two white men who didn’t approve of
his wife’s skin color—is one bad cop and one incident too many. If you have black skin in this country,
the importance of That Night can never be overestimated because it is still all too real.

I don’t have to be a Rodney King high on PCP, traveling fifty miles an hour above the speed limit
to experience That Night. I could have been that Charlotte minister, just three years ago who, while driving with his
wife and kids, was pulled over and harassed by two overzealous white officers. I could have been that Davidson College
freshman who, only a few years ago, was pulled over, treated as a drug dealer, and searched like some vile
criminal just a couple of miles from campus. I could have been the motorist in St. Petersburg, Florida, or James
Willie Cooper.

Write for Opinions
We encourage submissions for Opinions from students, faculty, and staff. Submit articles on WordPerfect Macintosh disks to the Davidsonian office
on the third floor of the College Union. The deadline for submissions is the Wednesday before the next issue. Ask
not what Opinions writers will write, ask what you can write for Opinions!

OPINIONS
Ike Bailey
That Nightdriving down Greg Garrison

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

9 a Charlotte street. The circumstances of these situations were all different, backgrounds were diverse, attitudes divergent, but the prerequisite
for this treatment seems quite simple: the blackness of one’s skin. Black History Month should have been a time to
rejoice in the accomplishments of a Martin, the daring of a Malcolm, the wisdom of a Maya, and the presence
of us all. But during that month, as in all other months, I imagine my experience on That Night when
I watch the evening news and see that a crime has been committed by black criminals. I envision That Night
when I walk into job interviews fearing that my skin may be my biggest shortcoming, because I’m supposed to be
“a black jelly bean stuck to the bottom of the jar.” When I walk down streets and see women clench
their bags a little tighter, white men rush to the other sidewalk and mothers grab their little daughters from fear
of the big black man coming their way, I imagine That Night. I have worked twice as hard not to
allow these images to force me into bitterness, force me into complacency, or force me into being the stereotypical “black”
man most of us see. I work twice as hard to hold on to the belief that one day That
Night will be surreal. Still, I wonder if That Night is my destiny. I wonder if That Night will be
my end.

Open Up a Can

Tobacco is a dreadful, evil, wicked, wonderful weed that I miss terribly. It’s now been well over a month since
I’ve had any. Now, you might be groaning and thinking that I’m just going to recycle last month’s column on
smoking, but if you are, you’re mighty wrong. Well, you’re not mighty wrong, because I am going to talk about
tobacco, but you’re at least sort of wrong. You see, a few days ago, I ran into a friend of
mine in the library, and we were talking about this and that and obnoxiously reading out loud a certain letter
from a pissed-off knucklehead who took a certain humor column in the Davidsonian far too seriously. As someone who’s got
a pretty close relationship with the author of the original column, I can guarantee you that he doesn’t really give
a damn that he stepped on somebody’s toes, and he refuses to dignify the letter with a response, except for
subdued laughter which he will keep to himself from this point on.

Anyway, this friend of mine was telling me how much she loved to dip Skoal Long Cut, which is something
I miss far more than cigarettes, chew, or the occasional cigar or pipe. When she had recited her joyous confession,
I got all excited, jumped up, and shouted, “Girls who dip are so cool! Holy cow!” I got a few
strange looks from the people around me, but I’ve found that when I start having a conversation that eventually turns
into one of these articles, I always get strange looks from eavesdroppers, so the stares didn’t bother me. Right then
and there, the wheels in my head started turning, and I formulated a plan for the rest of my life.
I'd rip THE PATCH off my arm, go out and buy my own can of Long Cut, toss in a
fat dip, and leave it in until my breath smelled like a restroom in Belk, my gums receded down to
my chin, my teeth fell out, my tongue became cancerous and had to be removed, and I died. I'd find
a girl who dips, drinks bourbon whiskey straight no chaser, and chugs King Cobra like mother’s milk. I’d ask her
to marry me, and we'd move off to a faraway house and raise up a family with his and her
spittoons and a Mason jar for each of our kids to practice spitting in so he or she would have
good aim by his or her thirteenth birthday, when we'd bestow the child’s first can. Girls who dip are cool;
from that moment of epiphany on, this would be the overarching theme of the rest of my life. I would
take up where I left off when I quit and then some. I'd start dipping a can a day, smoking
a pack a day, chewing a pouch a day. It would have happened just so, but I was telling another
friend of mine about it, and she said, “Greg, don’t be an a-hole. That’s disgusting.” I replied that it was
not disgusting and fought with every ounce of strength in my body to hold onto my dream. I swore that
girls who dip are the best around. I argued; I cajoled; I ranted and raved and insisted. Then, I thought
of the sight of a girl who had just taken out a dip, tiny black strands lodged between her teeth
and little flecks hanging on her lips. I imagined kissing a girl who had just removed a wad of brown,
turd-looking, funky-smelling junk from her mouth, and my stomach fell into my feet. That’s okay, I thought, just because I
don’t want to date one of them doesn’t mean that girls who dip aren't cool. They may be disgusting, but
they are cool as hell. With that, I ended my brief plan to search for and share my life with
the Copenhagen Queen, but I still wanted a dip and planned to go out right then and buy some. Before
I could, though, one last thought entered my head: Hang on a second. If I feel this way about girls
who dip, how do girls feel...
