RIS & LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Is this for real? Six Characters in Search of an Author confuses and frustrates reality, theater, and audience

By Nick Paul
Guest Writer

Last week in Hodson Hall, from Wednesday to Sunday afternoon, the Davidson College theater department performed Luigi Pirandello’s Six Characters in Search of an Author, a revolutionary work that questions the traditional role of theater and performance in the context of drama. The folks in Cunningham East performed this challenging work with a professional flair that carried the work gracefully to its conclusion and left the audience with more than a little to consider.

Pirandello knows that we like to watch. To see the human drama unfold on a stage or on a movie screen allows us a few hours to concentrate on what constantly happens around us during our daily lives. What then is the difference between drama and reality? The former mimics and comments on the latter and sometimes assumes a life of its own.

The six characters in Pirandello’s play seek a return to reality in the theater, explaining that actors, sets, and costumes cannot accurately recreate the reality that is inherently at the heart of a drama. The performance on Friday night was intriguing and disorienting. With the first act beginning gradually as the actors and crew began a rehearsal on stage, the focus of the audience was broken up among the simultaneous actions that were taking place on stage. The actors, staff, and crew were led by the Director (Ben Summers) and played their roles satirically, providing some often necessary comic relief intermittently throughout the play.

The heart of the play were the six characters that entered with the intention of living out their roles before the combined audience on and off stage. True, I think, to the playwright’s intentions, the gulf between the characters and the actors was broad. The sincerity of the Father (Josh Gaffga) worked well with the energetic ambition of the Director. All action and drama that took place on stage was manufactured by the friction between the six characters. Their emotion was convincing, and so strong that they seemed like magnets whose movements around the stage were dictated by the exact place of the other characters.

The wardrobe of all on stage also marked the vast difference between the characters and the actors. Makeup and costumes were superb, coloring those involved with the original production and leaving the characters black and white. I often felt that as the Stepdaughter character (Jess Robblee) stood next to the actress who was to play her (Laura Seib) she seemed like a photo negative in comparison.

Despite some moments of confusion in the first act, and an onslaught of emotions that was so enduring that it verged on the ridiculous, the Theater Department did an excellent job with this difficult work.

Women share stories of suffering, survival, and slow recovery

Take Back the Night brings forward victims of sexual assault in order to confront violence and offer courage

By Sarah Teachworth
Staff Writer

Last Thursday at about 7:20 p.m., I walked into the 900 Room prepared to get a good seat and take some good notes for a Davidsonian article on Take Back the Night. I was immediately made aware that a good seat was not in my future. Unlike other speakers and events I have attended in my...Three years at Davidson, the room was absolutely packed ten minutes before the event was scheduled to begin. Slightly mystified, I plunked down on the floor in front of the first row of chairs and jabbered lightheartedly with some friends. Margaret Lumpkin, the new Women’s Issues chair of the Union Board, thanked everyone who had helped organize the night and introduced the first speaker. As the room fell silent, a brave young woman walked up to the front of the packed room and took her lone seat. She warned us that she would fidget and cry as she spoke. I pushed my notebook and pen away, knowing that this evening would be more emotionally intense than I had anticipated and that I would not need notes for my article.

That young woman was the first of five who would sit before the crowd and tell their stories. There were stories of molestation, of rape, and of a death threat. In addition to the speakers, three other presentations were made during the evening. Diane Krause, a Davidson junior on leave this semester, played the guitar and sang a song she had written about women’s strength. Margaret Lumpkin read excerpts from the infamous “Top 75 Reasons Why Women (Bitches) Shouldn’t Have Free Speech,” written by four Cornell students two years ago. She also read excerpts from a reply e-mail detailing startling statistics concerning women and sexual crimes. A moving poem written by Jenny Lyon was read by Joselyn Schultz.

Emotions ran high throughout the evening. Speakers and audience members felt angry, sad, hurt, and hopeful at different times and in different combinations. At times, the individuals in the crowd were absorbed in the experience of the speaker, vividly feeling her hurt and anger and exuding sympathy. At other times, individuals’ eyes glazed over—perhaps thinking back to nights in their own past, or perhaps recalling the story of a friend or family member.

After the last speaker concluded her story, the silent crowd exited the 900 Room slowly. Lumpkin advised that anyone who hadn’t picked up a red ribbon should do so on the way out. She said it was to be worn around the wrist for as long as it took to fall off on its own so that people could recognize who had been there—so that people could recognize who understood what happened there. Everyone also picked up candles as they left and lit them in front of the Union steps. There, the group sang songs and lent support as people tied one ribbon to a branch of a tree for every person they knew who had been a victim of sexual abuse. Gradually, the students dispersed and reluctantly rejoined their evening routine.

Questions were raised throughout the night, both audibly and internally. If someone’s first sexual experience is rape, does that “count?” Can she not be a virgin anymore? If someone is raped, does it “count” when chummy girlfriends ask each other how many people they’ve had sex with? And what exactly counts as rape? Is it rape if you don’t physically resist? What if you don’t verbally resist? What if you’re too drunk or otherwise incapacitated to resist at all? Classifying experiences as “rape,” “molestation,” “sexual misconduct,” etc. may be important for some people. What all of the speakers were more eager to stress, though, is that people who have experienced sexual abuse of one form or another should seek professional help so they can learn to move beyond mere survival and begin to thrive—so they can learn from the night that changed their lives forever.