A

THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

U.S. News rankings too arbitrary to take seriously

By NARESH NAGELLA

News Editor

The “Davidson — The Eighth Wonder of the World” T-shirts can once again be worn with confidence in the accuracy
of the statement.

After a two-year leave of absence, Davidson re-ascended to its previous high of eighth place in the most recent U.S.
News and World Report college rankings.

After falling to 21st two years ago and then rising to 11th last year, Davidson has again risen to No.
8.

At face value, our roller-coaster ride through the rankings would indicate that much has changed on campus for the school
to re-enter the company of the liberal arts elite.

But Davidson’s recent yo-yoing exposes the inherent flaws of the U.S. News & World Report’s system of ranking.

Most students would tell you there hasn’t been much of a difference in the quality of education on campus during
the last four years.

Classes were just as well-taught and demanding in 1995-96 — when Davidson was pegged 21st — as in the year
before, when the school was dubbed the nation’s eighth-best.

Similarly, the rankings do not even take into account quality of life — a factor many students consider in choosing
a college. While Swarthmore might have better academics and a higher average SAT, they also get maybe two months of
moderate weather in a typical school year.

Why is such a possible determinant not factored into the equation? Is that not a disadvantage?

Even though the weather and school location should be secondary factors to academics, they should not go totally unaccounted for
in a rankings system that says it can differentiate between and choose which colleges are the “best.” Such an adjective
is too broad for rankings that significantly weight its calculations toward a school’s financial resources and attempt to judge the
rather ambiguous category of “academic reputation.”

The rankings do, though, help indicate a few areas in which Davidson can and should improve. The college ranks 28th
in faculty resources — a number that compares professors’ salaries, student-to-faculty ratio, and class size.

It is here where Davidson deviates most significantly from its final ranking. Many people would agree that an improvement in
this area would lead to a better quality of education. Higher professor salaries would attract and retain the best talent.
Smaller class sizes and lower student-to-faculty ratio — in other words, more professors — would undoubtedly lead to a better,
more thorough academic environment.

The rankings’ saving grace is that it judges all schools the same way and is therefore fair and consistent in
that respect. Still, that only means it succeeds in accurately comparing schools based on its questionable standards of what makes
a college the so-called best.

If anything, revisiting this milestone should teach students and faculty that the second time is not so much of a
charm.

Given the school’s recent experience with the magazine, it is doubtful that Davidson’s pride will swell too much because of
this year’s particular number.

Heather Lynn Lorch
Freshman
Lancaster, Pa.

“It totally matters to me. Maybe that’s superficial that its ranking and reputation are important to me, but...”

Word on the Street:

Compiled by SARAH OGDEN

Eric Ponder
Freshman
Neenah, Wis.

“I didn’t review a lot of national publications about how it was ranked. That didn’t really matter much to me.”

Fitz Sturgill
Freshman
Charlottesville, Va.

“It mattered to my mom, but not to me.”

How important is the U.S. News & World Report ranking to you?

Stephanie Kohler
Freshman
Atlanta, Ga.

“It mattered a lot for me because of the expense involved. It meant a lot to my parents, too, just
because they’re paying all this money.”

David Yancey
Freshman
Winston-Salem, N.C.

“I think it’s always nice, but I don’t think it’d be a deciding factor.”

Life is a series of tests.

Some of them just count more.

Find out why students have chosen Kaplan.

Expert teachers, superior materials, smart technology, proven results.

Call today.

KAPLAN
1-800-KAP-TEST
www.kaplan.com

Classes starting this week in the Charlotte area.

Call 1-800-KAP-TEST to reserve your space today.

SGA AND HONOR COUNCIL ELECTIONS

Freshmen Student Government Association Senators
Independent Senators
Senior Honor Council Members
Junior Honor Council Members
Sophomore Honor Council Members

If you're interested in running, sign up in the Dean of Students office in Chambers by Tuesday, Sept. 9 at
5 p.m.

Any questions? Call PAUL DRYDEN (x6164)

Elections will be held Monday, Sept. 15th.
