Wildcats hoping to match up with Blue Devils

Davidson will be in the hunt for the national championship. Gritty point-guard Steve Wojciechowski and preseason All-American Trajan Langdon lead that potent backcourt. Wojciechowski improved throughout last season, averaging 6.9 points and 5.3 assists. Langdon was the Blue Devils’ leading scorer, tallying 14.3 a game, while shooting better than 44 percent from behind the three-point line. But don’t tell that to the Davidson guards.

“We are confident in our backcourt abilities,” Ton said. “We have a very deep backcourt.” And don’t expect the Davidson frontcourt posse of Landry Kosmalski, Ben Ebong, Chadd Holmes, and Stephen Marshall to back down either. With the return of Roshown McLeod and Chris Carrawell in the Duke frontcourt, along with freshman Elton Brand — who leads one of the most heralded recruiting classes in college basketball history — the big Blue Devils will test, but not necessarily overmatch, the Davidson frontcourt.

“We are expending the majority of our effort in improving our team,” coach Bob McKillop said. “We want to get better every game and not worry about our opponent. And with our depth, we have the luxury of having that mindset.”

Considering Duke’s youth along with the absence of academically-ineligible swingman Ricky Price, the Wildcats know playing the Blue Devils so early in the season may be to their advantage. If there is a time to pull an upset over Duke, November seems much more plausible than March.

In early season battle, Davidson takes aim at Durham Goliath

Durham at Army and will probably start against Davidson. The returning Blue Devils include second-team All-ACC point guard Steve Wojciechowski and first-team all-league shooting guard Trajan Langdon — the duo combines to form an experienced backcourt. Roshown McLeod, Chris Carawell, Mike Chappell, Taymon Domzalski, Nate James, Battier, Burgess, and Brand figure to battle for precious minutes in the frontcourt. And come Dec. 21, add swingman Ricky Price to that group. Price, who scored 19 against Davidson last season, is academically ineligible this semester.

From one through 10, Duke is as deep as any team in the country. Perhaps even too deep. After all, there are only 200 minutes to go around each game.

“It’s a little bit of a concern, but a concern that can be dealt with,” Duke graduate assistant coach Lee Rashman said this week at the Blue Devil basketball offices. “The last couple years, we have had too few players, and that’s tougher than having too many players.”

But that is not to say Duke isn’t at least somewhat wary of the pesky Wildcats — just the kind of disciplined David that could conceivably knock off a complacent Goliath. Especially this early in the season, when said Goliath is busy trying to mix its heralded frosh with minute-hungry veterans.

“That kind of team-building and figuring out roles is more of a problem in December than in March,” Rashman said.

It is also Duke’s home opener, which should add some extra hype to what is traditionally the most frenzied atmosphere in college basketball.

“We have been out there before (at Midnight Madness, the Blue-White scrimmage, and two exhibitions), but it is our first real home game,” Rashman explained. “And that is always a little bit different, no matter how much you try to prepare for it.”

And last year’s Duke-Davidson meeting on Dec. 11, despite the eventual 85-58 score, was relatively tight throughout the first half. After taking a 33-26 halftime lead, the Blue Devils outscored Davidson by 20 points after intermission.

“It was very close,” Rashman recalled. “Davidson was a real tough team. They knew what they wanted to do and they were very good at what they wanted to do. I think we wore Davidson down a little bit in the second half last year. Eventually, our defensive pressure started to take its toll.”

“I like Davidson a lot,” Blue Devil coach Mike Krzyzewski said after last year’s contest. “They have a lot of heart and they keep putting pressure on you. Bobby (Wildcat coach Bob McKillop) is just an outstanding coach. They have a winning attitude and I’m surprised we won by the margin we did.”

Duke Sports Information

Senior Roshown McLeod is a major component of Duke’s talented frontcourt — a unit some are calling the best in the nation. And this year’s matchup?

“Davidson tried to push it a lot quite a bit,” Rashman said. “Ali Ton would get the thing and go pretty fast. That was something we scouted and tried to contain. With him still being there, I’m sure he’s doing the same stuff, taking the ball and looking to pitch it up pretty quickly. This year, though, our approach will be a little bit different. Last year, we were looking to contain. I think this year we’ll be looking to attack a little bit more. We would welcome that sort of tempo a little bit more. I would hope we would be better ready for that this year.”

Thursday vs. Duke at Durham (6:30, ESPN2)
Conference: Atlantic Coast
Last year: 24-9, 12-4 ACC
Coach: Mike Krzyzewski (23rd year, 474-208)
Current record: 1-0 (won Sunday at Army 78-45)
Last meeting: Dec. 11, 1996 at Durham — Duke, 85-58

Players to watch: Trajan Langdon (6-3, Jr., G, 14.3 ppg, .441 3-pt.); Steve Wojciechowski (5-11, Sr., G, 5.3 apg, 2.5 spg); Roshown McLeod (6-8, Sr., F, 11.9 ppg); Elton Brand (6-8, Fr., F)

Noting the Blue Devils: Duke is ranked No. 3 in the nation in the Associated Press preseason poll and No. 2 in the ESPN/USA Today coaches’ rankings. The Blue Devils are ranked fourth by the Sporting News, third by Athlon, and fifth by Street & Smith's and Preview Sports. They are ESPN analyst Dick Vitale's preseason pick to win the national championship. SI ranks them No. 1 as well, and Wojciechowski is on the cover this week. Blue Devil freshmen William Avery, Shane Battier, Brand, and Chris Burgess make up the strongest recruiting class since Michigan's Fab Five. Wojciechowski, a scrappy court leader at the point, was second-team All-ACC last season. Langdon was first-team. Brand started his first game as aCollegiate Sunday at Army and will likely start his second against the Wildcats... Swingman Ricky Price is academically ineligible this semester and can return to practice Dec. 21.

TSN on the Blue Devils: “The Devils may be a year away from taking Krzyzewski to an eighth Final Four, but the talent base is returning to previous levels.”

Athlon on the Blue Devils: “What's not to like? Coach K went out and corralled the kind of talent not seen at Duke since Christian Laettner and Bobby Hurley and Grant Hill were winning national championships... The Devils can make it to San Antonio (site of the 1998 Final Four).”

Preview Sports on the Blue Devils: “Duke fans who have grown weary of the school's three-year Final Four ‘drought’ may want to begin making arrangements for accommodations and tickets at post-season sites, all the way to San Antonio, home of this year’s final weekend of play.”

Street & Smith’s on the Blue Devils: “It's hard to find a deeper team than Duke. If everybody contributes, Coach K will have 10 men to count on.”

Sunday vs. New Hampshire at Belk (3:30)
Conference: America East | Last year: 7-20, 5-13 America East
Coach: Jeff Jackson (2nd year, 7-20)
Current record: 0-0 (first game is tomorrow vs. Harvard)
Last meeting: Dec. 21, 1996 at Durham, N.H.—DC, 75-57
Player to watch: Matt Acres (6-7, Sr., F, 13.2 ppg); Carlos Bradberry (6-2, Sr., G, 8.9 ppg, 3.1 apg)

Noting the UNH Wildcats: The “other” Wildcats, who were pasted by Davidson last year on their home court, are picked to finish last in the America East by Preview Sports and Athlon, next to last by Street & Smith’s and the Sporting News... The Wildcats’ rookie class includes three players over 6-9... Forward Matt Blakely, who averaged 15.1 minutes a game last season, quit the team.

Preview Sports on the UNH Wildcats: “The Wildcats appear destined to be among the America East bottom feeders once again.”

*All statistics from last season

MICHAEL J. KRUSE

History not on Davidson’s side, but what does history matter anyway?

DURHAM—No matter how partisan the Davidsonian basketball staff might be, and no matter how good this year’s men’s team might be, the undeniable fact remains: When it comes to hoops, Duke is Duke and Davidson is Davidson.

On Men’s Basketball
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

In the history of Duke-Davidson roundball battles, an 87-game series that dates back to 1909, the Blue Devils—surprise, surprise—have largely had their way. They lead the all-time series 73-14. In the inaugural meeting, Duke won 22-8. Twenty-three years later, the count was 21-6. In 1940, it was 75-40. In 1945, 50-23. And more recently, in five contests from 1986-1991, Duke’s average margin of victory was—brace yourself—38.4 points a game. The 101-53 pasting in Cameron Indoor Stadium in 1989 must have been particularly humiliating for the Wildcats. In light of such ignominious performances against Duke, last year’s 27-point loss—in which the Blue Devils only held a seven-point advantage at intermission—was a relative nail-biter.

Needless to say, the Blue Devils and their fans don’t look at “Nov. 20 vs. Davidson” on the schedule and begin sweating bullets of anxiety. Just ask Joel Israel, a sports columnist for Duke’s student paper, the Chronicle. After the highly-touted Blue Devils scraped by the Australian national team by five points earlier this month, Israel wrote of the Aussies, “They gave the Blue Devils a rare preseason opportunity to experience crunch time late in the second half. Most didn’t think Duke would get that chance until the finals of the Maui Invitational in a few weeks, when the Blue Devils are likely to play either Kentucky or Arizona.” And a bit later in his Nov. 11 commentary: “Pencil in two weeks from tomorrow as Duke’s first test. The winner of an Arizona/Kentucky semifinal will likely await the Blue Devils in the finals at Maui.” Nov. 20 is—at least as far as I’m concerned—glaringly absent from his assessment. Maybe appropriately so. But maybe not.

There is reason to legitimately believe this year’s Wildcat-Blue Devil clash will be, if nothing else, closer than the aforementioned 27-point spread. Davidson could make Israel’s day and give the Dukies some much-needed practice at playing in a sticky second-half situation—consider it a public service, a token of the Wildcats’ good will. Last year, the Blue Devils’ superior depth simply took its toll in the second half. Davidson was somewhat short-handed to begin with last season. And on Dec. 11 when the Wildcats visited Cameron, they were without the services of then-freshman big man Stephen Marshall, who was out due to sickness.

Blue Devil coach Mike Krzyzewski has an enviable problem this season: He’s got so many talented players and only 200 minutes with which to work. Wildcat coach Bob McKillop has the same problem. Eight or nine Blue Devils could conceivably start at some point this season. Eight or nine Wildcats could conceivably start at some point this season.

Yes, Duke is in the justifiably vaunted ACC and Davidson is in the win-your-league-tournament-or-else Southern Conference. Yes, Duke is ranked No. 3 in the country by the Associated Press and second by the ESPN/USA Today coaches’ poll, and Davidson’s claim to hoops fame is back-to-back runs to the NCAA final eight 30 years ago. Yes, Coach K is a legend on the sidelines and known by every casual college basketball fan in the nation, and McKillop isn’t. Yet. Yes, Duke is Duke and Davidson is Davidson. But don’t be surprised if it doesn’t seem like it Thursday at Cameron. That’s not to say the Wildcats will win. But maybe. And make that an emphatic maybe.

Plus, Steve Wojciechowski, the Blue Devils’ pest of a point guard, is on the cover of Sports Illustrated with four Cameron Crazies this week. Duke is SI’s pick to win the national title. Ever heard of the SI jinx?

Preview Sports Publications

Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski is one of the most legendary and successful coaches in college basketball history. Now in his 18th year in Durham, Coach K has guided the Blue Devils to seven Final Fours in the last 12 seasons.