THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Soda Shop Shines on Main Street
By Mary CLARE JALONIC
Editor Emerita

While most businesses on Main Street are wishing that business could be better, Soda Shop owner Deborah Caudle is happy with hers. “We aren’t hurting,” she says. She sees her success as due to many different factors. She caters to the community by sending out flyers and encouraging families to come in. She caters to the College by keeping prices down and healthy items on the menu. She emphasizes a friendly waitstaff and faster service.

When she bought the restaurant in 1993, she expanded the hours and modernized the kitchen. “It’s a lot of things,” she says. “It isn’t one thing that makes it work. It all requires my personal attention.” She believes that a business will succeed if it has the right items to see to its market. “Other merchants are interested in trying to get more students over [to Main Street]. But I think that’s a function of your product.”

She admits that the product of the Soda Shop—sandwiches, burgers, fries, ice cream, etcetera—is for everyone. She feels that with good management most businesses can succeed. “I feel like the leader of any group is responsible for its success. I don’t believe in blaming [consumers] for your own mistakes. It’s not a matter of how I think they should act, it’s how they do act.”

She still wants to maintain the atmosphere of a small college town. “I’ve really tried to maintain a non-franchise-like, personal atmosphere.” She feels that Main Street would benefit from a more diverse set of businesses. “We all feel like if there were more different kinds of businesses on Main Street, then it would be nice for everyone. But for whatever reason that doesn’t happen.”

Like other merchants on Main Street, she feels that she could never exist solely on Davidson College business. “There isn’t a single merchant on Main Street who says that the College is the bulk of their business. The College accommodates most of [student] needs. A lot of [students] don’t venture out much.”

Caudle says that she can’t depend on any one group for business. “If the students come and eat, it makes me happy. If they don’t, I still have a business. If I’m going to be the equivalent of fast food on the strip, which is what it boils down to, then I have to cater to all groups. You have to go for the whole ball of wax.”

She says that may be one reason for BackStreet’s closing last June—they catered too much to students. “They probably didn’t stay as neutral as they should have,” she says.

The Soda Shop has remained in Davidson for over 40 years. “While others have taken little pieces of my business, they haven’t taken my heart and soul.”

Stop by Belk 1st floor and check it out!

ANNOUNCING!
A whole new way to find roommates for Lottery! (On or off campus) Not to mention a whole new way to make “prearrangements” with students that are coming and going from being on leave! The Residence Life Office has a new bulletin board on which you can post cards like this one:

News Editor
The National Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta, lectured on future challenges of public health issues on Wednesday night. Marks talked of the past achievements and...Future tasks facing public health include understanding the values and principles in society and how they interact. "They should be focused to help people live long and satisfying lives," says Marks. His talk specifically focused on the increasing population, problems with tobacco consumption, and the "price of longevity."

Marks says that the population level in the year 2050 will most probably be around nine to ten billion people. This level will need to be managed due to "population momentum," where many new people will need a greater level of resources than before, especially since the growing population is quite young. As the underdeveloped world starts to gain higher standards of living, it will need energy and food supplies that could strain much of the environment. "This new population and resource consumption increase will definitely need to be managed," says Marks.

Next, he talked about the growing problem with tobacco. He cited CDC statistics that indicate more and more teenagers are smoking, meaning that more people will be likely to continue smoking into adulthood. Tobacco-related illnesses are the number one cause of death in America. "The problem is clearly getting worse. It will be expensive to cure all these problems in the future. A behavior change is the best way to change results," says Marks.

Finally, he talked about the problems America will face since it has a rapidly aging population. When a large percentage of the population is on Medicare, a strain will definitely be put on those resources. Currently, the U.S. spends a third more per capita on health care costs despite not insuring all its people and having lower life expectancies and higher infant mortality rates than any other industrialized nation. "We cannot sustain the current level of expenses. The prices need to fall soon and we need to decide how," says Marks.

Dr. James Marks, Director of Public Health, focused his lecture on using public health to better people’s lives Wednesday night. Marks addressed problems of growing populations, tobacco, and the "price of longevity."

According to Marks, the challenges in public health have a large role in determining how to manage medical care costs. "We must grapple with society’s values.... Economics and ethics are both about choices. [Public health professionals] look to society to find out where to spend our money," says Marks. Still, despite the challenges ahead, "it will be a most exciting time in public health during the next generation," says Marks. "We must be optimistic. Ideas and goals take a long time for working. You need to be patient and have perseverance."

Marks looks to recent history as evidence of the power of public health accomplishments. The average life expectancy has increased some 15 years due to better management and innovations with our health care resources. "Looking back in the last 100 years, no other human endeavor has come so close to achieving its planned goals," says Marks.

Marks only focused on a few challenges but referred to many others such as genetic issues, violence, environmental concerns, etc. "The attitudes, practices, and policies [of public health] do not have borders," says Marks, reminding people of the global importance of such work.

Marks is the father of Junior Amy Marks. He believes Davidson students are already receiving a good start to pursue a career in public health because "a rigorous liberal arts education is the best preparation for enabling a person to deal with the varied challenges they will face."