THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Liz NEIHEISEL
Staff Writer

The temporary walls of the new Life Sciences building are now extravagant with color and design, showing the results of
Davidson students and community members who turned out Saturday to Paint the Wall. This event, coupled with Sunday's rain-washed CROP
Walk, can mean only one thing: Into the Streets 1997 has arrived.

Spanning the weeks between Oct. 25 and Nov. 9, Into the Streets is a national program designed to engage members
of the community in thoughtful community service. While the event itself encourages individuals to participate in short-term service projects and
increase awareness, the ongoing goal of ITS is to “unite campus and community in solving problems we face as society.”
This year's Into the Streets program is in only its second year, spawned by the efforts of Davidson students Bill
Abrams and Brian Campbell in the 1996-97 school year. Abrams, now a Davidson alumnus and the College's community service coordinator,
has been instrumental in this year’s program.

The ITS coalition is currently comprised of 10 individuals, including students, one faculty member, and one member of the Davidson
community. This year’s student leaders are Emily Katzfey and Andrew Letizia. “If we get just one person who has never
done service before to participate, learn, and want to go back again, I will feel like our work was worth
it,” Katzfey said.

A variety of additional students are helping to host and facilitate the various ITS activities, which include professional and student
speakers, a hunger banquet, work at a local children’s schoolhouse, a haunted house and carnival at Ada Jenkins, Habitat for
Humanity workdays, and highway clean-up. Katzfey urges anyone who is interested in participating with ITS to contact one of the
coordinators and get involved.

ITS’s kick-off event to paint the temporary walls of the new Life Sciences building was organized by students Kurt Fesenmyer
and Yu-Jay Harris, co-chairmen of the Solidarity Committee. The Solidarity Committee, a subcouncil of SGA, is designed to promote solidarity
among the college community. The painting of the wall was the committee’s first event in a while, and was aimed
to pull together individuals from both the Davidson community and the college.

“We were hoping for a little more diversity in the group,” Harris said. “I think a lack of publicity in
town made it harder for this to happen.” The plan to paint the wall was a result of several individuals
who, after the wall was defaced in the spring, wanted to decorate it more tastefully. “We were lucky to have
good weather,” Fesenmyer said. “Everyone who was there had a very good time. The day was a chance for different
people to come together and work as a team, to share their artistic talent.”

News 38
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

Into the Streets hits the streets with wall decoration, Crop Walk

Anna Judy

Students tutor this week at the Ada Jenkins Center. During the next two weeks, through the Into the Streets program,
Ada Jenkins will host a Halloween Carnival and haunted house. As the kick-off event for Into the Streets, a program
designed to teach the community about serving others, Harris viewed the event’s inaugural status with a twist. “The event was
a good way to begin (the program),” he said. “By learning to love yourself, you can learn to love others
as well.”

Saturday’s momentum continued into Sunday as over 75 participants took part in the 19th annual local CROP Walk. The event,
a 10-kilometer run or walk through the rainy streets of Davidson, has been growing since its origination in the late
1970s. Joining in Sunday’s activities were three freshmen halls, seven Patterson Court Houses, threeecumenical societies, and six local churches. Though
the event was plagued by rainy skies, CROP coordinator Whitney Frazier said, “The event is always a success if you
create an awareness.”

Proceeds from the CROP walk benefit work overseas. The CROP Walk will be supported in the coming weeks. The lunch
is a meal of beans, rice, cornbread, and water, where participants are encouraged to donate the cost of their normal
lunch to the Davidson Nutrition Center. A second CROP Lunch will take place the following week. Both will be served
from 11:45 a.m. until 1:15 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Forum audience responds negatively to sororities

Sorority Forum from page 1

would have to be voted onto the Patterson Court Council, and would not automatically become members upon their arrival at
Davidson. The sororities also would not have their own houses, and have strictly enforced policies prohibiting the use of alcohol,
so their presence on the Court would be very limited. They could co-sponsor parties on the Court, Barber admitted, but
all of the co-sponsoring sorority’s rules would have to be followed.

After the forum was opened to interest shown by currently enrolled Davidson women, one audience member addressed the exclusiveness of
sororities by saying, “You're kidding yourself if you think that sororities aren’t the most exclusive thing you can bring to
Davidson.” Matthew Hobbie continued the argument by pointing out that Davidson students have already been chosen once by being accepted
to the College. And “as for equality,” he said, “you're going the wrong way with this.” Hobbie felt that Davidson
should rid itself of the Greek system altogether and return to having only eating houses.

Liz Reid, a senior, made a point at the sorority forum Tuesday night in the Union. Barber said that the
national chapter insurance by which sororities are covered is better for Davidson. Barber agreed, saying that “eating houses take on
enormous liability” by serving alcohol. Meredith Mosely, a member of the audience, said that as a senior fellow in the
Admissions Office she had observed that most prospective students don’t want sororities to come to Davidson. Sarah House, another audience
member, also questioned the amount of insurance. Barber said that it would be difficult to disestablish fraternities because of tradition.

A telephone poll, conducted by the SGA in conjunction with the political science department, will be conducted soon to determine
whether the interest in sororities at Davidson is sufficient to justify installing them. The end decision on whether sororities come
to Davidson, however, belongs to President Vagt. “They are unnecessary. Davidson has survived this long without them, why do we
need them now?” said Peter Clark ‘01, St. Louis, Mo.

ON THE STREET

What are your views concerning sororities on campus?

“I don’t think that people are giving the women of Davidson enough credit. Change occurs for a reason, and I
think we should trust in what the women of Davidson want.”
David Johnston ‘01, Birmingham, Mich.

“The sorority system’s one difference from eating houses is their selectivity and elitist nature. If both of these elements (however
undesirable) are to be taken from them, there is nothing to differentiate them from eating houses, and therefore no reason
for their presence.”
Susie Schuhart ‘00, Concord, N.C.

“Anyone who really wants sororities that badly should have considered their absence here when applying and gone to another school.”
Cara Breeden '01, Middletown, Md.

The Japan Exchange and Teaching Program 1998

Teach English in junior and senior high schools in Japan
Learn about Japanese culture and people
Gain international experience

Requirements:
- Be a U.S. citizen
- Have an excellent command of the English language
- Obtain a bachelor’s degree by June 30, 1998
- Be willing to relocate to Japan for one year

Contact the Consulate General. Call (404) 89...
