4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Purchases the Pulper

By Jessica Goodson
News Editor

Of late, Vail Commons has been on the tongues of many Davidson students. In particular, the newly-purchased “Pulper” has generated intense discussion. Many students have questioned the value of installing the machine. Commons representatives Barbara Metzler and Dee Phillips maintain that their latest investment is cost-efficient and environmentally sound.

Metzler, manager of the Commons, attributes the need for the pulper to poor drainage and flooding in the past, a menace to dishroom staffers. “We literally walked on water,” she said. The Pulper alleviates the problem by removing excess water through a sieve, allowing it to flow through narrow drainage pipes unhindered by bulk trash. Water is also recycled through the pulper to conduct food and paper waste into its grinder.

In order for the pulper to function properly, it must pulverize a high volume of fibrous material. For this reason, the Commons currently purchases pressed styrofoam cups in lieu of reusable glasses. The cups lend the bulk necessary to maintain efficiency. Pressed Styrofoam, as opposed to bubble styrofoam, is nontoxic. It is not made with CFCs and is not a threat to the ozone layer.

Taking the place of a garbage disposal and eliminating the need for three dumpsters, the pulper is also self-cleaning, which reduces the manpower required to keep the dishroom in ship shape. The new 10-oz. cups hold just as much beverage as glasses (although students tend to think the Styrofoam cups are smaller), and the cost of regular shipments is offset by the reduction in staff, wasted water, and trash pick-up. While the Commons once dumped 72 cubic yards of trash in a week, they now take only 16 cubic yards to the dump per week, a reduction of approximately 78 percent. This is a reduction in trash density, not in the amount of raw trash.

What you may not realize about your dining service:
- Printing the Davidson logo on the cups, napkins, and sugar packets is actually less expensive than purchasing ordinary paper products. Stamping the logo is essentially a pledge from the Commons (which has the purchasing power) that they will buy every cup, napkin, or sugar packet in the shipment. Because the manufacturer is guaranteed to profit from each bulk shipment, it offers a reduced price.
- The Commons can accommodate students with allergies or dietary restrictions by preparing special meals or alerting students to problematic ingredients. Ginger Taylor, a registered dietician, is available to give free counseling to students.
- Dee Phillips, purchasing and production manager, is always looking for new recipes. If you have suggestions, contact her at ext. 2600. In addition, Phillips is more than willing to take any curious students on a tour of the kitchen and dish room, which includes a stop at the Pulper station.
- From 11:00 a.m.-1:45 p.m. Sept. 17, vendors sponsored by the U.S. Food Service will offer a range of entrees, fresh fruit, and desserts to be evaluated by students for possible addition to the Commons menu.

Jessica Goodson
News
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

The Commons

Service organizations across campus to form council

By Mike Brady
Staff Writer

The statement of purpose indicates that one of the primary goals of Davidson is “to assist students in developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service.” Service has always been an integral part of the Davidson experience and, with the inauguration of President Kuykendall in 1984, a formal challenge was made to the college community to meet the needs of service and leadership on campus and in the greater society.

As a result, the past 13 years have seen countless service projects and the growth of numerous service organizations. So many different activities and groups arose that in 1988 the Task Force for Service decided that a “service council” or umbrella organization was necessary to unify the Davidson service effort. This idea became the organization known as Reach Out.

Since the creation of Reach Out, service on campus has grown and blossomed to the multitude of opportunities for service that are available today. With service going on in 21 different Reach Out projects, Patterson Court, the faculty, Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, Dean Rusk, alternative breaks, Project Life, Into The Streets, and many others, service opportunities are now available throughout the campus and region. However, these options can at times be problematic. There are so many choices that some projects are overlooked or students could feel overwhelmed. So when a second Task Force for Service met in 1997, there was a definite consensus that a more diverse campus-wide umbrella organization would be helpful in concentrating student service efforts by providing one central location students could go to for information on volunteering.Their efforts evolved into the Service Council. Davidson’s service department, headed by Ruth Pittard, Laura McCarthy, and Bill Abrams, placed the responsibility of getting it started into the hands of senior Ben Kinnaman and sophomore Ann Culp. There are currently 400 students doing service on a weekly basis and 85 percent of the entering freshmen were active in community service. “Service has become an integral part of the Davidson experience,” Culp said. “The Service Council’s job is to bring representatives from each service organization together to create one vision for service at Davidson. Each group is doing a very good job already, but if we work toward one goal, we can do even better.” Kinnaman and Culp have been involved in many service projects through Davidson and have put in many hours working with staff and students to put together a council and define its purpose, mission, and benefits. Currently, the council is composed of two co-chairs, a secretary, and 16 representatives from existing service organizations and a community representative. The council’s main purpose is to pull together all the service groups on campus and be able to provide a central location for service information regarding many different aspects of student life. Though it will do no service within itself, the student-run council will be able to provide the structure for larger projects by having access to the whole student body and the many service organizations. Having this structure will greatly reduce the planning time of large-scale projects. “If a structure like this had existed for the Wildcat Habitat House we could have cut the organizational time by about a semester,” Kinnaman said. The council hopes to become a source of monetary support and facilitate the handling of budgets for campus service. Even more so, the long-term goal of the council is to provide a means to see how Davidson service can greater affect lives and the community around us. As the purpose of the College states, service, leadership, and humane instincts, are central to the Davidson education and experience. The council has its first planning meeting Wednesday.

WHERE in the WORLD are you GOING?
http://www.uwplatt.edu/programs/study_abroad/

For the Savvy Ones
I-77, Exit 28 * Norman Crossing Shopping Center Cornelius * 895-0404
Great Hair
Beautiful Nails
Soothing Pedicures
Flawless Waxing
Rejuvenating Facials

Moving away
By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

Students opened their Sept. 13, 1957 Davidsonian to these welcoming words from President Pietonpol: “Davidson College seeks to train young men who are Christian gentlemen.” No one was surprised; in fact, this very credo had lured them to the Presbyterian school. A record number of students — 246 to be exact — moved to Davidson in hopes of leaving as refined, Southern, Christian gentlemen. But 40 years later, freshmen are not so intent on the same goals outlined by Dr. Pietonpol. Approximately 230 women registered this semester, not in hopes of graduating as gentlemen, but rather in hopes of receiving the finest education a second mortgage can buy. Today, one will not find a Davidson yearbook boasting the Davidson mission of 1957, but instead will gaze upon the faces of over 1600 men and women of all sorts of backgrounds, nationalities, and religions. Of the 250 men who comprised the Class of 1961, 187 called either North Carolina, South Carolina, or Virginia home, and all but four grew up below the Mason-Dixon Line. No longer is such geographical concentration the case. The Class of 2001 claims students from all over the United States, as well as the world. As a result, students from countries such as Turkey and Japan add a much-appreciated international flavor to the campus community. Just as today’s Davidson takes pride in its heterogeneous composition, the institution in 1957 took pride in being homogeneous. “Davidson has been accused in the past of producing the ‘homogeneous man,’” wrote one student in an editorial. “People with the same backgrounds of ideology, religion, social status, economic standing, and heritage, we plead guilty with a sense of appreciation.” Simple observation will prove Davidson has matured into more than a “finishing school” for the wealthy, middle-to-upper-class, Christian young man. In 40 years, Davidson has evolved into a more cosmopolitan campus while still managing a firm grip on precious Davidson traditions. One of those traditions is Patterson Court, which began construction in the fall of 1957. At the groundbreaking, the Davidsonian reported 12 houses were to be built — complete with quarters for the house mother — at an estimated cost of $30,000. So while 40 years may have brought monumental changes in Davidson’s student composition, 1957 may best be remembered for the birth of the frat house.