THE DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL Love Edition By Dorcas, Cupid, AND A SERAPH Consulting Astrologists

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)—Cupid draws his bow and (aww)....just misses by a hair. Next week, however, you will be surrounded
by worshippers. You will have a love feast with them. Lucky Kind of Love: Platonic

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—Love for sale. Do not buy it. However lovelorn you are, hold out. Do buy some aphrodisiacal
dry-goods: rhino horn, oysters, love potion #9. Lucky Kind of Love: Unrequited

Aries (March 21-April 20)—Les jeux sont faits. The game is up. No more trickery for you, Aries. Life is not
a craps shoot, although it sometimes seems that way. This week, play billiards at the Par Four. Lucky Kind of
Love: Tough

Taurus (April 21-May 20)—Bullish behavior frightens your lover away. Arouse prurient interest with some random use of condiments. Behave prophylactically.
Lucky Kind of Love: Animal

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—You will find l’amour in the low countries. Luxuriate in Luxembourg, please yourself in Pays-Bas. The Kingdom
of God is one hell of a party. Lucky Kind of Love: Puppy

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—This week think Kama Sutra. You WILL get some this week. Cancers can do anything. Live la
vie en rose, la dolce vita is yours! You can do ANYTHING. Lucky Kind of Love: Free or True

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Bring offerings somewhere. Caveat: the offering must be a box of fishsticks. Whither shall you wander with
these sticks of fish? Alone and palely loitering towards Mrs. Paul’s house. Lucky Kind of Love: Devotional

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Virgins, virgins, no worries. Virginity is directly related to your consumption of cheese. A little goes a
long way. Unfortunately for you, not all the way. Lucky Kind of Love: Brotherly

Libra (September 23-October 22)—“Thou shalt not speak during the movie.” Ask Cornelia, the tympanum-mermaid at Movies™ at the Lake for
her opinion about this Mosaic declaration. A little much, non? Lucky Kind of Love: Groovy Kind of

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)—Hello. No chocolate-covered-candy-hearts to give away? You can always keep them for yourself. Lucky Kind of Love:
Self

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Get a new claymate. Davey and Goliath™ or Gumby and Pokey™ will do nicely. Beware of the
subversive religious message imparted by these claytoons. Lucky Kind of Love: at First Sight

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Children of the Corn rejoice, this week you will reap some good lovin’. Do not reap grimly,
sow the seeds of love. Lucky Kind of Love: in an elevator, “living it up while you’re going down.”

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997 By HEATHER LARSON Arts & Living Editor

“What constitutes a female hero?” Maria Irene Fornes, a prolific Cuban playwright, poses this question in her experimental play Mud,
to be performed in Davidson’s Black Box Theatre on February 13-16. Directed by Ann Marie Costa, the cast consists of
students Mike Miga, Jose Ruiz, and Kate Walraven, portraying the complex relationship between a poor rural trio. The first three
performances will be held at 7:30 p.m., with the final matinee at 2 p.m. on Sunday. Tickets are $4 for
students and senior citizens and $5 for general admission.

Mae, the central character, seeks a way out of her impoverished imprisonment by attempting to learn to read and write,
but finds herself entangled in a web of possessiveness, deceit, and cruelty. A gripping and disturbing epic drama, Mud contains
mature subject matter and adult language, and may not be suitable for individuals under 17 years of age. To this
end, a post-show discussion will be held on Friday, February 14 entitled, “Is Mud Taboo?” The panel will explore reactions
to the play’s strong visual images as well as look at the relevance to the play’s themes to life at
Davidson.

Co-Ed Housing, Anyone? The RLO Internal Review Committee is examining the desirability and feasibility of various alternative student housing options.
The Committee's final report will include recommendations to the Resident Life Office. You can make a decided difference in this
matter. The Internal Review Committee invites...Your comments, whether pro or con, particularly with regard to co-ed housing options: by floor,
by wing, by room? Specific suggestions as to which dorms make the most sense for co-ed housing are especially welcome.
Please send your written comments to Prof. Burkhard Henke, Department of Really Difficult Languages, or by email to buhenke@davidson.edu. The
Committee appreciates your participation.

At the Clubs — Music in two hours or less — WEB PAGE MANAGERS NEEDED. No experience necessary. Call Clay
@6801.

JERRY'S VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT:
Charlotte: 507 Providence Rd. 333-1003
The Arboretum: 543-8333
Davidson: 202 So. Main St. 892-0604
Myrtle Beach: held at the beach near 1074

Special Ski Program Announced for Davidson Students, Faculty, and Staff

We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special Davidson College Ski Program which is being made available by
Winterplace Ski Resort, near Beckley, West Virginia. Davidson College Students, Faculty, and Staff wishing to take advantage of this special
ski program must present their Davidson College identification card when purchasing lift tickets or renting ski equipment.

Weekdays (Monday through Friday):
Lift Ticket: 9am to 10pm $19.95, 3pm to 10pm $17.95
Rental Equipment (skis, boots & poles): 9am to 10pm $10.95, 3pm to 10pm $10.95

Weekends/Holidays:
Lift Ticket: 8am to 10pm $34.95, 5pm to 10pm $21.95
Rental Equipment: 8am to 10pm $16.95, 5pm to 10pm $12.95

Compare these prices to our regular prices. Weekend 9am - 10pm lift ticket and rentals would normally be $57! If
staying overnight, enjoy our sister resort, Glade Springs, or stay in Slopeside Condos! Call 800-634-5233 for reservations. Ask about special
Spring Break discounts for March!

This year Winterplace added 2 new quad (4 person) chairlifts for a total of 7 chairlifts to get you to
the top faster than ever. Plus, 4 new trails (for a total of 27 trails and a snowboard park) and
a new 10,000 square foot mid-mountain facility, The MountainHouse. Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley, West
Virginia, 2 miles from I-77, Exit 28, Flat Top. For additional skiing or lodging information, call 800-607-7669. For the latest
snow conditions, call the Winterplace Snow Phone at 800-258-3127.

Don’t let the weather in your area fool you! Winterplace has up to 5 feet of snow over the entire
mountain. State-of-the-art snowmaking has covered the mountain with snow that is more resilient than Mother Nature’s! The snow is packed
into a durable base that lasts through warm weather and rain! Then, the snow is groomed into a surface that
you just can’t wait to ski! Winterplace has the highest snowmaking capacity per acre in the Southeast!

Compiled by Clay Cofer

Monday, Feb. 10
Cat’s Cradle (Carrboro/Chapel Hill): The Cardigans w/ Papa Fritas
Double Door: Les Moore, John Alexander, Jim Brock, Rick Blackwell, Charles Hairston, Joe Linsey
Irish Cue (Cornelius): John O’Gorman & Friends

Tuesday, Feb. 11
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad Jazz Jam
Cat’s Cradle: Wilco w/ Sept “67
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Chubby Carrier & His Bayou Swamp Band
Kickbacks (Concord): Brothers from Mother unplugged
Mythos: College night-Techno
Pterodactyl: 80s Dance night
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): The Nields

Wednesday, Feb. 12
Amos’: Darden Smith
Cat’s Cradle: The Nields
Comedy Zone: Adam Ferorra
Club 2000: College night dance (Bare as you Dare contest)
Coyote Joe’s: Vic Rorrer & The No Name Band
Double Door: Lou Ford w/ Draggin’ Flowers
Jack Straw’s: Elephant Boy
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s and 80s
Rainbow Deli (Cornelius): Brothers From Mother

Thursday, Feb. 13
Baha: Retro 80s Dance Night
Jack Straw’s: Lake Trout
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Retro 70s & 80s
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)

Friday, Feb. 14
Baha: Live Reggae
UNC-Charlotte: Counting Crows w/ Fiona Apple
Jack Straw’s: Seconds Flat
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/ Merengue/Cumbia
Mythos: Dance-techno
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance/ Retro & Gothic upstairs (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: Social Distortion/ Swinging Utters/ The Belmont Playboys

Saturday, Feb. 15
Baha: Dance
Jack Straw’s: Double Wide
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/ Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)
Tremont: Buzzov-en/ Spite/ Ublisch/ 7Ft Spleen

Sunday, Feb. 16
Double Door: Les Moore and Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Salsa/ Merengue/Cumbia
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance (1/2 off before 11 p.m.)

We love Ann Culp.
