DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Vanlerberghe throws block party

By Aaron DUNHAM AND
MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer and Sports Editor

Junior Jennie Vanlerberghe
became Davidson’s all-time leader
in blocked shots during Monday’s
loss to Marshall in Huntington,
W.Va.

With a first-half swat, the 6-2 center eclipsed the previous record of 85 set by Kristen Ferrucci last year. Vanlerberghe’s 86 career blocks include 28 this season. She is currently the Southern Conference leader in blocked shots with an average of 1.9 per game and is on pace to record 125 blocks in her career.

KB returns

Sophomore Kerry Brown saw her first action in about a month in Saturday’s loss at Furman, making a successful return from an extended bout with mononucleosis.

The 5-11 forward contributed three points, three rebounds, and one assist in 10 minutes, as coach John Filar attempts to gradually work her back into the rotation. “She did fine, and she was a little winded,” said Filar. “She’s only had two full practices, so she’ll be back.”

Sophomore forward Jessica Montrella, who is currently battling mono, should be back in two weeks and may return in as soon as ten days, according to Filar.

The Wildcats host Western Carolina Feb. 11 and play at Georgia Southern on Feb. 15.

Retro gym gives Paladins home-court advantage

Construction on a new arena at Furman has pushed both Paladin basketball teams into the Lay Physical Activities Center, a 1,200-seat on-campus facility.

The gym looks more suitable for high school play than Division I collegiate action and its floor is covered with a spiderweb of lines that confuse even the best referees.

And the noise level was a definite factor in Saturday’s game, even though attendance was only 504.

The fact that Furman’s women’s squad is an unbeaten 7-0 this season in Lay is no coincidence.

Big Chance For Fans

There are only a few opportunities left to see the women’s basketball team at Belk Arena this season.

This Saturday, the Wildcats host powerful Appalachian St., a team picked by the media in the preseason to win the conference.

The matchup will be regionally telecast by SportSouth as part of a doubleheader with the men’s squad, which hosts Furman at 2:30 p.m. Tip-time for the women’s game is noon.

This article was reported by Aaron Dunham from Davidson and Michael Kruse from Greenville, S.C.

Davidsonian Sports

THE WORLDWIDE LEADER IN DAVIDSON MEN'S AND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL COVERAGE.

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C., Feb. 1 - When a team’s in a rut, it doesn’t get the breaks. It has to make the breaks.

And the women’s basketball team, which has now lost four straight after jumping out to a 3-0 conference start, didn’t do that on Saturday in the loud and cramped confines of Furman’s Lay Physical Activities Center.

The Wildcats (11-7, 3-4 SC) dropped a 78-73 overtime decision to the Paladins in a game they should have won in regulation.

With 14 seconds left and Davidson leading, 64-62, Jamie Brown left the door open by missing the front end of a one-and-one.

Guard Haley Cook seized the opportunity, sending the game into OT with a runner in the lane at the buzzer.

The Paladins (14-5, 6-2) outscored Davidson, 14-9, in the extra period for the victory, maintaining their position atop the league standings.

As for the Wildcats, what two weeks ago looked like a team of destiny is now stuck in the middle of the conference pack and struggling to regain its winning form.

“This one was in the bag, and we opened it up and let it out a little bit,” said coach John Filar. “It shouldn’t have gone into overtime. We should have taken care of our business in regulation.”

And for most of the second half, the Wildcats did.

Behind Carolyn Kirsch’s 13 points in the final 20 minutes (a game-high 19 overall) and a solid crunch-time performance from rookie center Katy Kamp, Davidson came back from a 35-30 halftime deficit, playing inspired, scrappy basketball.

Jen O’Brien equaled her career high with 18 points and added eight rebounds and a team-best three assists, often carrying the squad in the first half and overtime.

Brown and Jennie Vanlerberghe each pitched in 10 points, and Brown also had eight boards.

Furman’s Cook killed the Wildcats all day long, posting 16 points, seven assists, and six boards, and iced the contest with a pair of free throws in overtime.

Jackie Smith came off the bench to lead the Paladins with 18 points, and Tonya Bristow had a dozen points and ten boards in the winning effort.

The Wildcats must now regroup quickly due to a scheduling quirk, as they meet the Paladins again tonight in Belk.

“We can’t dwell on this,” noted Filar. “There’s too short a time until we play them next. It’s going to be whoever can get their mental game together come Monday.

“It’s just a matter of bouncing back and hoping someone misses a shot and we make one. We’re not that far away. We’re not even in that deep of a hole. We’re okay.”

FUN IN THE SUN!

How are YOU going to spend your summer vacation?

Come get lots of ideas at Career Services’ SUMMER JOB/CAMP FAIR

Organizations from on-campus, in Charlotte, in North Carolina and around the country will be here to talk with Davidson students about summer job opportunities.

Tuesday, February 4th Chambers Gallery Noon - 3:00pm

Register for fun door prizes!

Come to New Hampshire for the Summer

Outstanding brother/sister sports camps on New England's largest lake seek skilled counselors for land & water sports, and arts. Transportation Paid Interviews available... Winaukee (boys) 800-487-9157 Robindel (girls) 800-325-3396 See us in the Commons on Monday, Feb. 10 (5-8 pm)