THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

The College makes it official

By Jessica Goopson
News Editor

Davidson will officially inaugurate Bobby Vagt as its 16th president Friday. Vagt is sincerely hopeful that students will attend the
ceremony and the luncheon afterwards. As one of only sixteen days of its kind in the history of Davidson’s 160
years, it is indeed special.

The ceremony will be conducted on the front of campus where commencement was held last May. Afterwards, lunch will be
served in the area from Dana to DCPC to Eu and Phi Halls. Eli’s of Charlotte will cater boxed lunches
to the 3,000 expected to attend. There will be no standing in long buffet lines.

On the eve of the inauguration, Vail Commons will host a dinner for the president, students, and trustees. Steak and
vegetarian dinners will be served on the Commons Terrace from 5:15-7:30 p.m. Students should check their post office boxes for
an invitation and meal coupon. In the event of rain, festivities will be held in Johnston Gym.

All houses on Patterson Court will be closed for meals Thursday night; the houses and the Commons will be closed
for lunch Friday. Classes will be suspended Friday from 10:30 am-1:20 pm for the inauguration, which will open with an
academic procession consisting of 70 present and former trustees, 80 delegates representing other colleges and universities, over 125 faculty members,
and 50 student representatives from each class.

Several people will “bring greetings” to the new president, including former Chairman of the history department and now president of
Furman University Dr. David Shi. The Davidson College mace, made in 1988 by the late Jack Ramseur ‘31, will be
presented for the first time as a symbol of the office to President Vagt, who will deliver the only full-length
speech of the event. Presiding over the ceremony is W. Olin Nisbet III ‘63, Chairman of the Board of Trustees
of Davidson College.

At the conclusion of the inauguration, the Alma Mater will be sung and the Hattauer bells in the steeple of
DCPC will ring an official welcome to our new president. The Davidson College Wind Ensemble and the Davidson College Concert
Choir will also perform.

“This has been an amazing experience, pulling this inauguration together in record time,” Inauguration Coordinator Leland Park said. “Working with
the Davidson family has made it fun and successful. They have all wanted this to be a special occasion.”

Vagt: ‘This is a family get-together.’

Vagt from page 1

and every staff member as his biggest disappointment to this point. “I’ve probably had direct contact with 40 or 50
faculty, but [haven't been able to visit all of them,” he said. “I’ve gotten out to see people who work
on this campus, but I haven’t done a good enough job at that. And I’ve gotten to meet a lot
of students, but not nearly as many as I need to.

“There is so much to do, that when you try to meet the responsibilities of the position as well as
getting out to develop relationships, you burn the candle at both ends, and still don’t get it all done.”

In preparing Thursday’s and Friday’s festivities surrounding the Inauguration, Vagt and the Inaugural Committee tried to keep this idea of
community at the forefront of all plans. “When asked how we wanted it styled, rather than have all the pomp
and circumstance thatSome places do, we decided we wanted to have a short ceremony, share a meal, involve students as
much as possible,” Vagt said. “I think we need to keep emphasizing that this celebration, this ceremony, is really a
celebration of tradition. The point is, this is a family get-together. It’s not a celebration about Bobby Vagt, it’s a
celebration about Davidson College.”

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997

—Julianne Thrift, Salem College
—David Shi, Furman
—Douglass Eason, Mitchell Community College
—Billy Wireman, Queens College
—Robert A. Preston, Belmont Abbey College
—Douglas M. Orr, Jr., Warren Wilson College
—James B. Hemby, Jr., Barton College
—William W. Hurt, Montreat College
—J. William Byrd, Mount Olive College
—Warren L. Board, St. Andrews Presbyterian College

Two former Davidson presidents will attend: Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. (1968-1983); John W. Kuykendall (1984-1997).

Three Davidson first ladies, past and present, will also be present: Ava Clark Spencer; Noney Moore (Missy) Kuykendall; Ruth Anne
Vagt.

Two former North Carolina Governors will attend: James G. Martin and James B. Hunt.

Over 3,000 hand-addressed invitations were sent out. A personally-addressed letter was sent to every student from SGA president Buster Burch
and from the Dean of Students, Will Terry.

The oldest college represented will be Harvard (1636); the youngest, UNC-Charlotte (1965).

President Vagt's academic robe was custom-made by Josten’s of Minnesota and will feature the seals of Davidson College and the
Presbyterian Church.

Sororities from page 1

As part of the current Court system, Barber cited three advantages of bringing sororities to Davidson. First, sororities offer excellent
career networking and post-graduate opportunities. Second, national sororities will bring programs to campus on women’s issues, alcohol abuse, and academic
skills. And third, sororities would encourage inter-eating house friendships and bridge the gap between women on the Court and independent
women.

But independent women have, so far, not expressed much interest in sororities. Independents were left out of the evaluation conducted
last year, and Barber acknowledged that there are no independents serving on CEWOD. “Participation of independent women was sought, but
there was little interest,” he said.

Cost is another issue that has sparked debate. CEWOD estimates that joint membership in an eating house and a sorority
would be comparable to membership in a fraternity. One-time pledging and initiation fees amount to approximately $200. National dues or
insurance fees are $50-$100 annually. And typical eating house meal and social fees total $800. The cost for membership in
a fraternity is about $1,100, equivalent to what a first-year woman would be expected to pay for joint membership in
an eating house and a sorority.

Ideally, sororities would be floating entities on campus, meeting like other student organizations in the student union. They would not
have a building on Patterson Court. But many students are concerned that sororities will gradually phase out women’s eating houses.
“Ultimately it is the President’s decision,” Thornberry said. “But we need to slow down and look at pros and cons.
As of now, CCRL is not prepared to make a recommendation to President Vagt.”

WANT TO GET PAID TO TALK ON THE PHONE?

The Annual Fund Office is seeking enthusiastic, articulate students to be PAID student callers. If interested, please call Jenny Reinoehl
at x2113. Positions begin in October.
