MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The first revelations regarding President Bill Clinton’s re-election came about six months ago, before the campaign had ended. However, the
allegations and defenses of wrongdoing have not stopped coming. In the last two weeks, through documents released by the Democratic
National Committee, the country has learned of new, questionable fundraising practices.

First, it was found the President fully wanted and allowed donors to get to stay in the Lincoln Bedroom. Specifically,
he okayed for “overnights to start right away.” Before, the President had denied he knew of the specifics of his
fundraising tactics.

Next, Vice President Al Gore’s role in the system was learned as the documents and aides revealed he made fundraising
calls from the White House, or government property. Doing so is against a late 19th-century law that prohibited elected officials
from asking for donations on federal grounds since government officials might have been able to gain special access to politicians.
Gore said he did not violate the law since he used a Democratic National Committee credit card. He said the
law had never been challenged or tested in court, so he could “legally” do what he did. He also said
he was “proud of what he did,” but promised to “never do it again,” since it could set bad precedents.

Next, an FBI probe was revealed that might indicate possible efforts by the Chinese government to gain access and donate
money to various candidates in all parts of Congress. The problem is that the donations might have come from a
government initiative and not from different Chinese interests. Still, any contributions from foreign governments are forbidden in U.S. political campaigns.
It is believed that the Chinese government might have found veiled attempts to donate and specifically did arrange and subsidize
trips for politicians to visit their country. It was also found that parties can return the favor by channeling money
and help into foreign campaigns. They each gave $4.1 million in tax dollars to set up institutes in foreign lands
for ideologically similar parties.

Many public interest watchdogs state that foreign money (1% of the total contributions) is not the problem, but that special
interest contributions are far worse. Meanwhile, the Republican party hosted a program for their $100,000 or more donors with Senate
Majority leader Trent Lott stating, “(private donating) is the American way.” Only 3 of the 55 Republican senators have signed
on to the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform act that would ban soft money. Democrats cited that while their abuses of
the system have been more public, it is because the Republicans have fewer problems raising money from their traditional business
allies. The DNC noted that the Republicans spent over $600 million in the last campaign, while Democrats spent only over
$300 million. They state all these problems and negative incidents could be avoided with full public financing of campaigns.

President Clinton’s approval rating still hovers around 60% nonetheless, indicating the public does not care as much about the “possible”
scandals and more about his performance in his office. Finally, the Senate has finally appropriated the funds for a Congressional
investigation into the wrongdoings. Enough money was allocated for both parties’ races to be looked into now. Before, it looked
as if only the President’s campaign would be scrutinized.

Sources: New York Times, USA Today

International ... Albania in “complete anarchy” The tiny Mediterranean country of Albania (pop. 3.5 million, GDP per capita $1,100) has
lost most sense of law and order as citizens have taken arms against the government, and specifically the President Sali
Berisha, for not protecting them in failed pyramid schemes that recently collapsed, bankrupting mostof the nation. People have taken to
random shooting and violence while demanding government action to help them. Marines have had to evacuate Americans there and to
combat gunfire in the process. They have retaliated against some Albanians when necessary. Other European nations have also evacuated their
nationals and the European Community is considering what to do next. Albania was a hardline Communist country for most of
the Cold War and, like some other Eastern European countries, is struggling with instituting capitalism. A decision regarding that is
how much of capitalism to allow. The Albanian government believed that an unchecked market would work best and so did
not institute strong regulatory checks to the schemes that have crippled their economy. Source: NYT National

President recovers from his ‘fall’
President Bill Clinton is doing better after having surgery to repair a torn tendon he experienced after falling from stairs
in golfer Greg Norman’s home. He was going downstairs in the dark and slipped where he thought there was a
step. He moved to adjust his foot, but a loud “pop” was heard since the movement was so sudden. He
will undergo six months of therapy after which doctors expect he will regain full use of his leg. Source: NYT
Local

Hornets owner might buy coliseum
Charlotte Hornets owner George Shinn might buy the Charlotte Coliseum if he does not get a new one in downtown.
The Charlotte city council is strongly against providing taxpayer money for the new arena. They want Shinn and business leaders
or at least season ticket holders to foot a large part of the bill. Shinn says he needs a new
arena to stay competitive in pro basketball. If he buys the arena, then he will receive profits from all its
programs, concessions, and parking money. Source: Charlotte Observer

THE Crossword
Elections
Sign-ups for SGA Class Senators and Honor Council positions will be today through Thursday in the Dean of Student’s Office.
Elections will be held Monday, March 24.

ACROSS
1 African nation
5 Portals
10 Word of sorrow
14 Excellent
15 Cove
16 Ear section
17 Silent
18 Landscape
19 Boxing match
20 Gorilla
22 Occupants
24 Notable period
25 Certain jellied garnish
26 Grower of vegetables
30 Reduced the speed
34 Pub drink
35 Frighten
37 Rub out
38 Distance measure
40 Les — Unis
42 Abstract being
43 Happening
45 Serpent
47 Danson or Turner
48 Certain dog
54 — and order
55 Coerce
58 Man-made channels
62 Amount of space
63 Furniture piece
65 Changing star
66 Fasting season
67 Plumed bird
68 Ireland
71 Strikeout

DOWN
1 Vacation spot
2 Time of day
3 Against
4 Judged
5 Extent of space
6 Single time
7 Mexican cheer
8 Leases
9 Soaks
10 Tuna
11 Diving bird
21 God of war
23 Egyptian waterway
25 Put in order
26 Monopoly and rummy, e.g.
27 Existing
28 Lease again
29 Dies
31 German city
32 Heroic actions
36 And others: Lat. abbr.
39 Plea
41 Frying pans
44 Duck
46 Son of Isaac
49 Uprising participant
51 Braided
53 Actor's milieu
55 Bundle
56 Angered
57 Flex
59 Center
60 Wicked
61 Sensible
64 Bikini top

© 1996 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved.
