THE DAILY DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

Not always what the press says, but what it doesn’t say

Does anyone remember the cute little morality lessons at the end of each G.I. Joe cartoon? G.I. Joe would have just finished kicking the living crap out of Cobra Khan (who never seemed to die). It would go have depended upon these organizations to provide us with the stories, and traditionally we have trusted these organizations to provide us with all the stories. But sadly, more and more of us have little faith in the information we consume.

From THE EDITOR OF THE TOILET PAPER

We are a nation of cynics, doubters, conspiracy theorists, and nonbelievers. And perhaps, this is not without reason. At Davidson, where we all smile and greet each other like old friends and no one even thinks of lying, there is the assumption that such cynicism should be withheld for the world outside. Each of us tries our darndest to be fair and upstanding. Of course, that hasn’t stopped controversy from occasionally creeping on campus. Many of us may recall the criticism the Davidsonian received just last year for its allegedly liberal bias. Well, yet another college publication has been the subject of criticism in the last few weeks. It is not the Davidsonian. It is not the Libertas, and God knows the Oak Row Report didn’t slip up. No, this time, it’s the Dean Rusk Program’s monthly publication on international affairs, the Toilet Paper.

No doubt, many of us have seen it: After all, it’s rather difficult to avoid when one is sitting in an otherwise bare-walled cubicle. Three pages. Lots of pictures. Mostly of people being shoved into car trunks and terrorized by the Turkish armed forces. At the top, in very large letters, it says TURKEY. So, this is Turkey? Perhaps you even bothered to read a few of the articles. Let’s see. There’s a full page article on the Kurdish rebels in Eastern Turkey, another on the Turkish military, an article on Turkey’s prospects for entrance into the European Union, a history of the region. And the list goes on. Fair enough. Or is it?

Noam Chomsky, the rather outspoken leftist critic of the American media, has tried to argue that the great failure of American journalism is not so much to be found in the subjects it does report on as in the subjects it fails to report on. On many issues, I tend to disagree with Chomsky, but he raises a provocative and important point here. The journalistic community’s power does stem at least as much from what it chooses not to write about as what it chooses to write about.

As an amateur journalist, and more particularly, the editor of the Toilet Paper, I was disappointed with the quality and the accuracy of our latest issue. While the articles written were by all means objective and accurate, we failed to tell the whole story. There is far more to Turkey than Kurdish rebels and brutal governmental repression. It is a nation of great complexity and depth, and its story should be told. The writers and editors of the Toilet Paper have attempted to tell some of that story. What they have attempted to tell is, in my opinion, sufficiently, if not perfectly accurate. There is a brutal conflict in Eastern Turkey. Both sides are responsible for great bloodshed and serious human rights violations. Those are facts. But there are more facts than just these. We could just have easily spent two or three pages discussing the ambitious and effective public health and education programs that have been administered by the Turkish armed forces over the years. Perhaps we should have focused on the rights of women in Turkey — which are impressive. They, after all, recently had a female prime minister while the United States is probably 10 to 20 years — if not more — from that. And there are many more facts.

Unfortunately, we didn’t bother to tell them this time around. As editor, I am ultimately responsible for what each of us reads on the walls of our bathroom stalls. I am not ashamed of the writing which was done on this last issue, but I am ashamed of the writing we failed to do. I hope that this article will at least encourage readers to look beyond what is merely written and to ask what has not been written. Whether accidentally or purposefully, the press often fails to present the whole story.

Honesty with ourselves and clarity go hand in hand. How difficult it is to view events in our lives with a clear perspective if we are not honest with ourselves. Conversely, it is nearly impossible to be honest without clarity. Whenever I loved Diane Krause’s performance the other week. Clarity is not only a wonderful name for a CD but also something that we all need. Clarity and communication but without hyper-sensitivity:

Boy: I want to take you out tonight. We can see a movie or go down to the court or whatever. Then I was thinking it would be nice if we had some physical contact. I hate the term “hooking up,” but you know what I mean.Seeing the word clarity, I’m reminded of the drug advertisements with the profile of the woman and her too perfect nose and flawless skin placed emerging from the blue sky and airy clouds with some flowers right below her nose. I guess because her sinuses are free of mucous she has clarity. I wish it were that easy for those of us not plagued with allergies. I don’t know what is more fundamental — honesty with self or honesty with others. I suspect the relationship is circular. We start being a little vulnerable with ourselves; we dare to be vulnerable with others. Our interconnectedness grows as we allow our “true selves” to emerge; our interconnectedness with others grows because we find that we are not the only ones struggling. Sometimes I laugh when I contemplate honesty in everyday life. We cushion what we say too often. We wouldn’t want to offend anyone, right? So we compromise ourselves by watching out for everyone else. It is unfortunate that people have forgotten what constructive criticism is. We need to be able to take honest comments with a grain of salt, learn what we can from them, and move on.

I have imagined a few scenarios where two people have an honest conversation:

Girl: I do understand what you mean. Frankly, I am happy that you think enough of me to ask me out. But I would be leading you on if I went with you. I think you are interesting to talk to at the Commons every other week, but I really don’t want our relationship to progress past that level. I hope you can accept that. And by the way, while it is natural to want some sort of “physical contact,” I think you are approaching that realm incorrectly.

Boy: Okay, I am hurt that you rejected me, but I would like to talk to you in two weeks in the Commons, after I put this rejection in perspective, about what you mean with the whole physical contact bit. I hope you are bored this weekend. I am going to find someone to go out with. See you.

Girl: Goodbye.

or

Boss Jane: Hi Joe. I hope your weekend was more exciting than mine was, but I doubt it. Have you put on the coffee? When is my first appointment?

Secretary Joe: I really wish you would ask one question at a time. I really don’t like discussing my time off at the office. I hope you can respect that and not ask how my stupid weekend was. The coffee is waiting to be poured. Your first appointment is at 9:30.

Boss Jane: Fine. I will try to only ask one question at a time. I think you need to be more respectful of me. I am your boss.

Secretary Joe: Very well. You also may want to look over my job description and make demands of me that are appropriate. Hope your day is productive.

Other cultures are much more straightforward. When I was in Paraguay, my older brother pointed at my zits and suggested that I use some aloe vera from the backyard. At first, that type of conversation took me by surprise; I admit I was a little offended. After all, in the U.S. the last thing we want to talk about is our personal fallacies. But after I decreased my sensitivity and realized that what was said had no malicious intent, I came to value the greater level of honesty.

This is a crucial time in our lives to be honest with ourselves. We are making some of the most impactful decisions in our lives. Take the risk and start being honest with yourself.

I must say that I was amazed and dismayed in regard to the concept of the Urban Plunge experience. While it may be true that “only understanding brings understanding,” I question the worth of such an experience when compared to more purposeful and useful pursuits. Perhaps the homeless would be better served if someone were to improve their situation rather than attempting to duplicate it. I may portray myself as a cynic, but it seems evident to me that — generally speaking — there are at least two reasons why someone would choose to passively “experience” being homeless in such an event over acting on behalf of the homeless:

1. The Urban Plunge serves to salve the conscience of those who harbor some guilt about their own (i.e., their parents’) economic success. This atonement or emotional sacrifice relieves the participant from making a donation of time, service, or ever-so-burdensome money to an organization that actually helps the homeless (and nearly-homeless), such as the United Way, the Metrolina Food Bank, Loaves and Fishes, etc. You can build a house with Habitat for Humanity over a weekend. Just imagine: “I feel your pain (but would rather play homeless than help you).” Sympathy feeds, clothes, and houses no one.

2. The Urban Plunge is but one part of an ideological “basic training” for those who would challenge institutions within our society which they feel are responsible for their experience, complacency, or conspiracy. It is a sad commentary on human nature that those who work against the Establishment — or anything else, for that matter — are rarely capable of working for anything of real value. While it is much easier to oppose a perceived enemy than to create a solution to any of society’s ills, one should be a volunteer, not a revolutionary; building up is more worthwhile than tearing down.

The apparent hypocrisy of this event disgusts me. Let us hope that those who are truly interested in the plight of the homeless will choose to make a difference rather than a statement.

Into the Streets ‘97
October 25th - November 9th