Che Da ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997 VOLUME 88, NUMBER 17

Hey, taxi! Rides program to pull up soon

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

After many months of planning, a rides program for Davidson students is nearing completion, or at least is nearly ready
to move from the drawing board phase to an actual test phase. The service is expected to start running sometime
after Spring Break.

Warren Buford, outgoing SGA president and co-chair of the Rides Committee, expects that the rides program will be in operation
within the next six weeks. The planning and development of this program involved a task force of five staff members
and three students, as well as co-chairman Bill Felty. Dean Shandley, who Buford says was very supportive of the task
force, also assisted in the process.

Although the specifics of the program are not certain, Buford hopes that “we can have a skeleton program within the
next weeks... and develop from that stage.” Buford hopes that this skeleton program would entail a shuttle service operating three
nights weekly from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. The shuttle would transport students to and from “entertainment zones,” or areas
near establishments often frequented by students, in Cornelius and neighboring towns. This program would operate for a few weeks, at
which time the program would be evaluated and adjusted according to student response and other factors.

There are no specific “entertainment zones” established yet, and plans for financing the program are not yet complete. Buford says,
“We think it will be affordable through the Activities Tax Council, but we are not sure if students will have
to pay a small fee to use the system.”

“We are not sure who would drive, how they would be trained, and whether or not they would be paid,”
Buford says. Despite these unanswered questions, Buford is optimistic. “I think it will work. We can at least have some
shuttle system better than we have now,” he says. “What started as a vision now actually seems possible.... I can
see it all happening.”

Buford also says that these types of systems have to start small. “We need to buy the vans, set up
a few entertainment zones, and have lots of trial and error. Hopefully other students will take over.”

Election Results

SGA President: Buster Burk
SGA Vice President: Ann Harriot Fisher
Union Board President: Matthew Hobbie
Union Vice President/Social: Mike Bougdanos
Union Vice President/Co-Curricular: Donna Gribble
Defense Advisors: Wesley Hart and Damon Colbert
Student Solicitors: Josie Hoover and Virginia Fisher
Reach Out President: B. J. Huff
Reach Out Vice President: Sakira Peay
Student Conduct Council: Catherine Gilbert and Jamie Moore
CCRL: Fahd Gul, Bonner Mead, Turner Herbert, Walt Steadman
Review Board: John Bell
ATC Vice Chairperson: Wesley Hart
Trustee Committees:
Admissions and Financial Aid: Rives Moore
Buildings and Grounds: Lee Burnett
Athletic Policy: Christina Rodriguez
Institutional Advancement: Jean Boehmler, Will Nolan

Ann Harriot Fisher and Buster Burk are stepping into the sizable shoes of outgoing SGA leaders Warren Buford and Clair
Freeman.SGA in ’97

Large voter turnout delays returns

By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

This past Monday and Tuesday, elections were held for numerous posts on the SGA, Union Board, Honor Council, trustee committees,
and several other organizations. Sophomore John Bell, election council chairperson, called this past week’s election “fantastic.”

"Each election gets better and better. Turnout was exceedingly high,” he says.

In the general election on Monday, more than 56% of the student population voted (compared with 35% last year). In
the runoff on Tuesday, upwards of 46% voted. Freshmen voted the most, seniors the least. Bell attributes the higher voter
participation to the tight competition among the candidates and the seriousness of the campaigns.

Turnout was so unexpectedly high that the election committee workers were counting ballots until 2:30 a.m. on Tuesday. Because the
results were obtained so late, Bell says, announcing the results before the run-off elections proved difficult. This may have led
to some confusion in Tuesday’s runoff. Overall, the election went very smoothly, however.

Working on the elections council under the chairpersonship of Bell were Paul Dryden, Margaret Hoover, and Kirsten Recknagel. In the
future, the committee hopes to facilitate and expedite the counting of votes by borrowing polling booths from Davidson City Hall.

See page 3 for more

Three elections

Town forcing four students out of 507 Concord

NARESH NAGELLA
News Editor

On Friday, the students at the “507 Concord” dorm learned that what they thought would be semester-long dwellings would be
much more temporary. The Davidson Town Council voted to enforce an ordinance that states that no more than four people
of any organization can live in the same house. Neighbors of the dorm, many of whom are college staff members,
asked the council to remove the students. No one informed the students of the meeting or the action taking place.

Many people view the law as one intended to discourage off-campus residence fraternities or sororities. However, the Residence Life Office
and the students at the house were surprised to learn it would take effect for short-term housing like the make-shift
dorm. Most staff members viewed the move as one that would discourage future temporary housing in or around the town.

The actual effect on the house will be that four of the eight students living there will be forced to
move in order to obey the ordinance. Junior resident Nathan Raley says, “It is discouraging that four of us have
to leave. I wish the whole situation could have been worked out in a better way.”

See Evicted on page 2

Josh Glazer

One year ago, Davidson was braving some of the worst weather seen in years...

FROM TUNDRA TO TEMPERATE

Randy Hartwell

... but on Sunday Freshmen Desirae Haylock, Jen Wilbur, and Susan Schultz lounge in the unusually warm weather.

Swimmers dunk Duke

SPORTS 13

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
