THE DAVIDSONIAN

I’m sure that everyone has heard about the Honor Code trial that happened last week. I didn’t want to write about this — considering everyone is talking about it anyway — but someone informed me that some students seem to have lost a lot of respect for the Code, or even didn’t have much respect for it to begin with. This is a very bad thing, since the Honor Code is the backbone and nervous system of the College. We saw that the Honor Code supersedes local, state, and even federal law Tuesday night at Ryan Gist’s trial. It’s hard to imagine that we have a stricter Code at Davidson than the United States has for itself. But that’s the system, and it’s a good system. Outside of Davidson, lying and cheating are a way of life for some people and businesses. A respectable man or woman might not even do too well in the business world because of overwhelming cut-throat, anything-to-get-ahead dishonesty. Here the Honor Code helps you out as well as everybody else. It is a system of security and values that circulates through campus — passing over $10 bills found on freshman halls, sliding over laptops and backpacks left in the library, and continuing forever...and beyond. I'm not saying that all people should conform to all systems of society, but this one’s a Utopia. Those of you who have lost faith in the Honor Code or didn’t have faith in the Code to begin with should really question if you want to be a part of this community. Because if you don’t, you shouldn’t be here. The Honor Code is the core of this school. Although many people feel that Gist was wrongfully charged with a Code of Responsibility violation, he did take something that wasn’t his. I’m glad the Honor Council came to the decision that it did, because in this circumstance, different levels of morality were under scrutiny. But there was the issue that something was taken, whether for a good reason or not. If I see a dog chained to a tree with two feet to move around, although I see this as terribly wrong, it is not my place under the law to cut the rope and take the dog away to a better home. With this public trial, we all were able to witness the seriousness and validity of the Honor Code, and see that it is not out to get us and beat down those like Gist, but to help us all out.

Time to worry: Gist over Koestner

I'm disappointed. I hate when I realize things like that — I hate when I look around and all I can see is the worst in people. It scares the hell out of me. Because I know I’m part of that which I despise. An event happened Tuesday night in the 900 Room. As of Tuesday morning, the location and time of the event were unpublicized because they were unknown. Yet, over 500 people showed up — even President Vagt. He didn’t get to stay, though — he said he didn’t want to. But it really didn’t matter because he couldn't even get in the room. Then on Wednesday, there was a speaker in Love Auditorium — a speaker who has been on the cover of Time and done a special for HBO. And she was addressing date rape, a topic that affects every single student and faculty member here at Davidson, not to mention every other school and community in the United States. Again, there were roughly 500 people in attendance. Not a bad turnout. Or was it? If you consider the fact that over 450 of those in attendance were required to be there, I’d say that the attendance was pretty pitiful. Where were those 500 eager students who had turned out the night before? Perhaps the publicity for Katie Koestner’s presentation wasn’t sufficient. Surely those 500 would have attended if only they had known. Or maybe they knew and they didn’t show up because their priorities are completely out of whack? I really wish it was the former. On Tuesday, some idiot — who might have had good intentions, but went about seeing them through in the worst way possible — was on trial. Five hundred students turned out to apparently show support for his stupidity. Kudos. Twenty-four hours later, a very brave woman got up and shared the most painful experience of her life, hoping to prevent at least one woman from being raped and suffering in the way that she suffered. Where were all of you? Where were Dean Shandley? President Vagt? Dean Jeffries? The members of the esteemed Honor Council? Dean Marsicano? The English Department? Philosophy? Religion? Biology? This issue touches all of your lives — where were you? Perhaps the fliers all over Chambers, the Union, and Baker, and the advertisements in both the Davidsonian and Libertas were not enough. I want to believe that, but how do you explain Tuesday night’s numbers? There were no fliers, no advertisements, no radio announcements, and yet so many of you turned out for what was essentially a huge joke. I feel sick to my stomach, and this feeling won’t seem to go away. Perhaps it won't go away because the reported number of rapes on campus last year was zero, when I know that one out of four women are raped or sexually assaulted. Perhaps that zero makes you think we’re safe. We’re not. We’re just not talking about it. I have a feeling that I’m going to be disgusted for a long time, but at least I know where we all stand. I just wish proper illumination was as simple as a little lightbulb — although I’m not sure we’re ready to see our true colors.

Misconceptions about the Honor Code

The recent query into the Code of Responsibility — that all-encompassing “other” Code that covers the offenses the Honor Code doesn’t — has promoted some rare discussion on campus. Which is great. People need to think about what the Codes mean to Davidson. A few students have even looked at the Red Book to see what those lovely brown pages contain. The trial Tuesday night was packed, but I’m not going to write about it. Plenty of others will do that. General student opinion regarding the Honor Code is far more interesting, and the Davidsonian ran a poll to gauge such opinion. One question it asked was whether the Honor Code should supersede federal, state, or local laws, to which most students responded, “No.” I hope I am not alone in my surprise at this outcome. The Honor Code and the law have nothing inherently in common. Virtually every Honor violation does not conflict with any law on the books. For example, the police could not charge a student who cheats on a test — yet it is a violation of the Honor Code, and the penalty would be quite severe. The Honor Code does supersede law, for it condemns things that the law does not. If the Honor Code had to defer to the law, then we should abolish the Honor Council, and instead impose sanctions in criminal or civil court. Perhaps this confusion is not a product of the Honor Code but of the Code of Responsibility, which is more relevant in this case. Many students feel that the charges in the case were “technical,” or somehow contrary to the true spirit of the Code. Maybe. Certainly more clear-cut violations against the letter of the Code occur almost daily. I’m referring to Section VII of this Code of Responsibility, which forbids the consumption of alcohol for those under 21. We all know this.Section of the Code is broken by many students many times. Before the beginning of classes last year, President Kuykendall addressed the class of 2000 about his belief in the College’s policy on underage drinking. He had absolutely no tolerance for underage drinking. Apparently though, somewhere down the administrative ladder, those responsible for enforcing this policy were—and still are—on a different wavelength. We had the unofficial “cup rule,” where a student could be stumbling into walls with a two-liter covered cup—which the school gives us on our first day back—with the verbal coherence of an inanimate object, and everyone would wink and pretend that he had had one too many Cokes. Perhaps we should ask ourselves, should this really be a part of the revered Code if a large portion of the student body disregards it? And if it is impractical and/or undesirable to enforce this policy, why should we enforce other sections of the Code of Responsibility with any more stringency?

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1997

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

No higher standard than patriotism

To the Editor:

In response to the article in the Sept. 15 Davidsonian about the Ryan Gist trial: We find it utterly ridiculous that such a matter is of any concern to the Dean of Students Office, and even more so that the matter was brought to trial. Since when is it a crime to do the right thing? In our opinion, Gist is guilty of nothing more than showing the proper respect to a symbol that stands for the freedom we all possess. Whether intentional or not, the failure of the postal employees to properly display the flag is a measure of disrespect to all of those that ever fought or died defending it. Yet Gist was charged with violating a section of the Code of Responsibility that states: “Social conduct is...to be based upon concern for others and must conform to high standards of courtesy and propriety.” What higher standard is there to conform to than respecting the sacrifices of those that came before you? Does the Dean of Students Office really think that Gist acted (or even thought about acting) malevolently? The College’s mission statement states that “the primary purpose of Davidson College is to assist students in developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service.” What kind of message are they trying to send when they prosecute a student for doing the right thing? Should we as students be afraid to act on our own principles? The Honor System should energize us to act on our beliefs, not to be frozen in fear of them. The Honor Code is not a weapon. It is the embodiment of our intellectual freedom, an inherent quality in every person who chooses to be here. Like Gist, one of us is an ROTC cadet who will enter the Army in the spring. Part of the training a cadet receives in the ROTC program teaches him or her the importance of decisiveness in decision-making. Gist made a decision in removing the flag to place the honoring of his country’s greatest symbol in front of any consequences that might befall him for doing so. As such, we think he should have been congratulated for his actions rather than harassed by Dean Jeffries. We feel sure that both of them have much more important things to do with their time.

David W. Aycock
Douglas S. Cutting, Jr.
Class of 1998

Trial shows student involvement

To the Editor:

As a freshman, I find myself overwhelmed by Davidson students’ respect for the Honor Code. Coming from a high school that documented its code on one page of a “Welcome to high school” pamphlet, I am impressed by both the College’s and the students’ enforcement and application of the Honor Code. I have already witnessed its legitimacy and strength in the classroom and outside of it. I joined the masses Tuesday night in the 900 Room in order to observe the public trial of Ryan Gist. After a 15-minute delay, a hush fell over the crowd and the esteemed Honor Council entered the room. To my surprise, they were students like the rest of us, suddenly transformed by the responsibility of deciding another student’s future. Watching the trial and wondering when I would pass out from the nauseating heat, I couldn't help but notice the multitude of students listening carefully to the speakers. Since the day I arrived on campus, hall counselors, club presidents, and professors have stressed the importance of being involved. The students in the 900 Room were certainly what I would classify as involved. It was almost inspiring to see the students’ concern for their classmate and for the application of the Code of Responsibility. In the mere 20 minutes I was there, I discovered the students that I hoped to find when I applied to Davidson. Students here really are involved and really do care. The trial—and the overflowing 900 Room—proved that. Later, I was informed that public trials of this sort are extremely rare. Knowing this, I am glad I took a break from my Spanish to attend. Honor Council trials are valuable and practical learning experiences. Bearing in mind the considerable interest level of the students, I hope to see more trials made public in the future.

Jenny Hapgood
Class of 2001

The campus comes together

To the Editor:

Two major events took place on our campus last week, Katie Koestner spoke about date rape, and Ryan Gist was tried for violating the Code of Responsibility. We seem to have come together as a campus, leaving our library carrels, social scenes, and most importantly our apathy behind to be a part of the action. These events in and of themselves are important to the well-being of our campus community. Date rape certainly occurs here at Davidson. My cynicism makes me wonder how many students would have attended her talk had they not been dragged there by their hall counselors. In this case, I would agree that the end justified the means: being aware that atrocities do occur here is sobering and reminds me that Davidson is not the utopia that alumni or the pamphlets put out by the admissions office would lead us to believe. The presence of so many students at Ryan Gist’s trial is also fascinating. Many people changed their plans so that they could be part of the action. I heard an unconfirmed rumor that it was even a hall program for some freshmen to go wave U.S. flags in support of Gist. Why was this trial so important to so many normally uninterested students? Student trials are open to the public unless they are requested to be private—go ahead and check it on page 16 of the Red Book. I doubt any public trial in recent Davidson history has had so much student response. Was the large number of students there a sign of disapproval toward the administration? Many students complained about the administration slapping the Code of Responsibility charge on Gist. Perhaps students don’t have faith in the omnipresent Codes and the people who interpret them. Students may have felt that they had to watch over the trial to make sure that Honor Council members would be aware of the wrath they would face if they found Gist guilty. This is ironic because everyone has the opportunity to vote for Honor Council members. Nearly all the students left before the trial ended, which makes me question the sincerity of their interest. Last week, we were able to discuss and argue and be with one another in a conscionable way. Apart from the important issues that these events raise for us as individuals, I think that the real value of last week's mass gatherings was that students came together to think about what it means to be a part of the Davidson community.

Joslyn Ogden
Class of 2000