7 THE DAVIDSONIAN Op-Ed TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
NARESH NAGELLA

Opinions Editors
KRISTEN BARTCH
DAVID SANTSCHI

Arts & Living Editors
WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
CARRIE MORRIS

Sports Editor
JAY CANTRELL

Layout Editor
RANDY SKATTUM

Advertising Managers
SCOTT REEDER
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
DAVID JOHNSTON

Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
ANNA ERIKSSON

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
McNEIL CARSWELL

Web Page Manager
ANNA JUDY

Photo Editor
HENDI FINK

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Was Gist tried under wrong charge?

The Ryan Gist trial has generated much controversy in the past week. Many students have argued that the Dean of Students Office was wrong to bring the matter to trial. Others expressed a loss of faith in the Honor Code itself and have been rebuked by students who remind them that this was a Code of Responsibility, and not an Honor Code case. But many students are aware of this detail. Perhaps their loss of faith can be attributed to the very fact that Gist was not found in violation of the Honor Code.

Davidson Chief of Police Hank McKernan said that if Gist had taken the flag in front of police headquarters as opposed to the Post Office, he would have charged him with misdemeanor larceny, regardless of his intentions. By extension, the school could — and perhaps should — have charged Gist with stealing, a violation of the Honor Code, which states “every student shall be honor bound to refrain from stealing...every student found guilty shall ordinarily be dismissed from the College.”

More than likely, Dean Jeffries did not want to see Gist suspended. According to the Red Book, however, penalties for Honor Code violators need not be restricted to indefinite suspension. The range of permissible sanctions includes warnings, probation, community service, and eviction from college housing, to name a few. A student charged with an Honor Code violation, upon admission of guilt, may make any statement in extenuation and may present reasonable witnesses in substantiation of his statement. The solicitors then suggest a sanction and the defense may present any mitigating circumstances, such as intent, in regard to the suggested sanction. The sanction is then determined in executive session.

Gist was charged under Section III of the Code of Responsibility. Section III states that “students are expected to develop social skills and relations which are mutually beneficial and which lead to personal maturity. Social conduct is therefore to be based upon concern for others and must conform to high standards of courtesy and propriety.” Without implying that Gist could not have been tried under the Code of Responsibility, I would suggest that he should have been tried under the Honor Code, and that many Davidson students, who observe the Honor Code religiously, question why he was not.

Dean Leslie Marsicano suggested that the Section III charge was filed in particular to reflect a lack of malicious intent on Gist’s part. According to the Red Book, however, Davidson procedure is designed to deal with intent during disciplinary proceedings, not in filing a formal charge. It is not the responsibility of the Dean of Students Office to determine if Gist intended to keep the flag or return it the next morning. By policing charges, the faculty and administration seem wary of the Honor Code’s potential severity; apparently they doubt that the Honor Council could have punished Gist for taking the flag — an imprudent action — under the Honor Code without dismissing him, even though he had good intentions. In effect, they are second-guessing their own system.

Perhaps we need to establish some precedents for students to better understand disciplinary procedure. The Red Book says that Honor Code violators are ordinarily dismissed from school, but have there been any past cases that we know of where a mitigated sanction was imposed on a guilty student who presented mitigating circumstances? Of course we want to protect the confidentiality of Honor Code cases, but students grow tired of assuming that the Honor Code functions efficiently behind a shroud of anonymity. To quote Katie Koestner on College policy, “All I know is what I read. If it’s not in the handbook, I don’t know it.”

Kruse lacks understanding

To the Editor:

Michael Kruse’s editorial in the last issue of the Davidsonian only shows his personal lack of faith and understanding of the Honor Code. Even with last week’s events, the Honor Code continues to be an integral part of Davidson. Kruse assaults the Codes, the Honor Council, and the Dean of Students Office without any understanding of the system. He states “the Council’s apparent — and really not surprising — incompetence, inefficiency, and inability to conduct a trial professionally,” failing to understand that the Council's members are not professionals, but instead are students elected by the student body to serve to the best of their ability in cases where a violation of one of the Codes may have occurred. Kruse fails to support any of his claims with concrete evidence or understanding of the normal process or of this abnormal trial, which is his duty as a responsible journalist.

During my tenure as Student Solicitor, I have actually gained infinite respect for the Honor System and the Dean of Students Office, which must act in accordance with the Red Book. Questioning any action which may be irresponsible or fail to conform to the high standards of courtesy and propriety is expected of the entire student body. If anything, the trial showed that the system does in fact work, for though Ryan Gist’s actions were questioned by the Dean of Students Office, his peers deemed that he was not in violation of Section III of the Code of Responsibility. Reading the Red Book issomething the student body, and especially Kruse, should do before questioning their faith in a system based on a trial that was not an Honor Code case, and therefore not accurately indicative of the system itself. Individuals such as Kruse, through his words and biased poll, are making a mockery of the system, not the Honor Council. Questioning the system is healthy, but understanding it and knowing the personal responsibilities therein is a commitment that we all made upon entering Davidson.

Virginia A. Fisher, Class of 1998
Student Solicitor

Responsible journalism?

To the Editor:

Well, it has happened. Michael Kruse and his team of “journalists” — and I use the term loosely — have fallen victim to what is known in the real world as sensationalism. Simply pick up a copy of last week’s Davidsonian to see what I mean. Instead of a front page picture of Katie Koestner, First Night Down activities, or one of Wildcat tailback Lorenzo Moll or football coach Tim Landis celebrating their enormous and historic victory, there is a picture of the crowd at the open Code of Responsibility hearing, two accompanying articles, a headline informing readers of the bounty of coverage and other sensationalism that follows inside, and a quote taken from the Davidsonian’s completely unscientific survey.

The open hearing was not one of overwhelming significant value. At no time was anyone ever in danger of being expelled from school. Although the Davidsonian would have readers believe otherwise, this was not an Honor Code hearing (I repeat: this was not an Honor Code hearing). A relatively minor Code of Responsibility charge was simply going through the proper channels that are outlined in the Red Book. I’m not sure where all the hype came from — probably from Ryan Gist himself, who requested a public trial and then “advertised it” to the student body — to quote his defense adviser Damon Colbert. Whatever the case, the Davidsonian was there, ready and willing to exaggerate the situation. And the paper made itself look foolish in the process.

Along with its over-kill coverage of the trial, the Davidsonian conducted a poll to survey student opinion concerning the Honor Code and the Honor Council. This survey was a joke as far as polling standards are concerned. The 382 students polled were an entirely unrepresentative sample. According to Davidsonian statistics, just under a third of the student population went to the trial, yet over half of the students whom the Davidsonian interviewed were students who had been present at the trial. What are the chances of that happening in a random sample? Slim to none. It seems appropriate to point out to Kruse that, before he makes such bold statements as “the people have spoken,” he first conduct a responsible poll that is taken from a random sample. The printing of this obviously biased survey — as well as the header on the same page which read “Honor Code Under Fire” (again, this was not an Honor Code case) — causes me to wonder about the intentions and motivations of the Davidsonian.

Finally, why was the transcript of the trial printed? I doubt it could have been so that students could read it and form their own opinions, because the Davidsonian already did that for them. Again, this seems to be another example of the Davidsonian placing too much attention on a relatively unimportant subject. I would contend that a transcript of Koestner’s speech would be much more useful to the college community. The front page of the Davidsonian should be no man’s soap box, especially not of one who is unable to understand the difference between a Code of Responsibility hearing and an Honor Code trial. I understand the power of the press to set public agenda. In this case, however, the Davidsonian abused that power. The Davidsonian should report the news, not create it. I recommend that Kruse shift his focus from sensationalism and criticism of the Honor Code and Council to an even bigger problem here at Davidson — lack of competent journalism.

Humes Jefferson Franklin II
Class of 1998

Thank you from Project Life

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Project Life Bone Marrow Committee, I would like to thank all those who contributed to our second annual Pasta Dinner. Thanks to the participation of freshmen, hall counselors, upperclassmen, faculty, and staff, we served over 450 members of the college community. We owe the success of this occasion to many. Many thanks to Alan Hyder, Bennett Thompson, and Craig Thompson for providing live music. We would also like to extend our thanks to Vail Commons, the Union and physical plant staffs, the Davidson College football team, Connor, Rusk, and SAE for all their support. We would also like to extend a special thanks to Warner Hall for their donation of balloons as well as volunteers. We greatly appreciate the donations of Bojangles’ of Cornelius and Huntersville and Wendy’s of Cornelius. We are delighted to be able to start off the year with this successful event. New and old members of the College community will hear more about Project Life and the bone marrow drive as the fall progresses. We will soon be selling our annual T-shirts, visiting freshman halls, and we will hold our annual ice cream social in October. We look forward to involving the entire campus in the activities of Project Life. It is essential to stress the importance of the annual bone marrow drive. Those who spend the few minutes to be typed Nov. 18-19 will have the chance to be marrow donors for individuals worldwide whose only chance for survival from leukemia or another blood-related disease is a marrow transplant. Nine individuals from Davidson's seven previous drives have already been donors. The success of Project Life’s efforts depends greatly on publicity and fundraising events like the Pasta Dinner. Thanks again to all those who helped make this dinner on Patterson Court not only a fund-raising success but also an enjoyable and festive First “Evening” Down.

Meredith Benke, Class of 1998
Project Life Bone Marrow Drive Committee