Yesterday, my three roommates sat me down at the kitchen table and told me I was lazy. “You don’t wash dishes,” they told me. “You don’t take out the trash. You don’t do anything. You're the queen bee of the apartment, and we’re your hard-working subjects. Would you like some more honey?” Well, I have never been one to refuse a compliment, so I kindly...

The Davidsonian tered from the tubal equator if and only if...,” they began. I squirmed. A swarming aura of hatred had filled the room, soaking the velvet walls behind me. What had begun so innocently had become an undeserved and unwarranted interrogation. Just minutes before, I was reclining on the couch, swallowing cookies, and massaging my belly. I turned my back and asked them to pat it for me. But then I was subjected to a most unnecessary criticism of my disorderly habits.

“We've also noticed that you squeeze the toothpaste from the middle,” they continued. “This has got to stop.” Suddenly, I realized that I had become the innocent victim of what I choose to call P.O.T.F.K., or Pick on the Fat Kid. They — “the skinny” — were having a bad day, and I — “the chunky” — just happened to be available. “Toothpaste ought to be squeezed from the center,” I argued.

In reply, the curly-haired philosophy major began a dissertation on the ethics of dental domesticity while the two English majors shook their heads behind him, waiting for a break in the lecture, a gap to fill with some needless psychoanalytic critique of my lackluster behavior. “The toothpaste shall be administered like rubbing your stomach and patting your head at the same time, but cooler and undoubtedly more impressive. This is a blatant expression of the Oedipal complex within” — the literary antagonists had received the pause they were waiting for. “By squeezing from the middle, you demonstrate an attempt to bypass the immediate (separation from your mother) while at the same time your actions reflect a sincere denial of the future (without your mother), a refusal to accept the inevitable — the end of the tube of toothpaste.”

I noted that they had only argued why I didn’t squeeze from the ends and not why I squeezed from the middle. And still, I was not quite sure in the first place why squeezing from the middle was such a bad thing. Their banter continued to evolve considerably — or shall I say revolve endlessly — but by now I had zoned out and was thinking of other, more important things.

My first transgression unfortunately landed on the topic of sororities at Davidson. Fraternities are dumb. Sororities are dumb. Why have one if you can’t have the other? Dumb & Dumber. If people want to be dumb, though, I can’t find a reason not to let them. Eating houses, the same as sororities. I don’t buy the argument that sororities would change academic life. Any woman that would not come to Davidson because we had a sorority or even three sororities is shallow. The educational experience...

I purposely returned to my imagination. If I didn’t have so many extracurriculars, would I be smarter? Nope, I would probably just drink more. How does one get smarter, anyhow? Have all those bad grades I’ve gotten this week made me smarter? In a way, I really think they have. I have started to doubt. Not my education or my intelligence, but I have begun to itemize the things I definitely and absolutely cannot do. Wow, the list is already so long! And yet there is this channel that seems to be materializing beneath it all, a rough but tangible groove forming from what I have learned about myself.

In her most recent Davidsonian article, Liz Neiheisel designated the five types of males at this school, and I'd like to think I was the guy who “has the looks, the sensitivity factor, and all the gentlemanly graces required to sweep a girl off her feet.” In reality, it’s the ladies who have been wielding the broom around here, and it is now apparent that I, along with the rest of my apartment, have been swept straight into the gutter. I think I'll go to the mountains and chase gorillas with Kevin instead.

Finally, I returned to the couch for good. The trial had concluded; the prosecutors now sat around the kitchen table, laughing about all the fun times we’ve had together. Occasionally, they would point over at me. I do a lot of stupid stuff, but right then and there I decided that I haven’t done enough of it lately.a lot of stupid stuff, but right then and would be the same—too bad they couldn’t figure that out on their own. My tentative vote, which I cast in place of all those members of CCRL who did not attend that meeting, is yes. Then I turned to puzzling thoughts regarding my roommates. Why are they so anal? Why must they be so disgustingly persistent? I briefly lapsed back into consciousness, finding the lawyer-to-be pointing at Exhibit A—a tube of Crest™. He dissected the inconsistencies of my testimony and rattled on about the significance of the damaging evidence thus far. Services to smooth things out. Please give my Jamaican bobsled a push in the right direction. The lecture, by this point, had lost whatever direction it had originally possessed. Now I was being told that I needed to floss more often. I nodded my head and agreed with them, but then they disagreed with my agreement, declaring that I was not allowed to join “their side.” Then I said that wasn’t fair and they, of course, agreed. Why didn’t I get a date to Rusk? I keep waiting for Career—there I decided that I haven’t done enough of it lately. I decided to continue my toothpaste squeezing habit regardless of the degree to which it was detested. I decided to write Op-Ed columns that have no point but are funny nonetheless. That’s what we need, I decided. We need to stop reading so much. We need to have more reasons for you to laugh at me. We need more people pointing at us saying, “Man that was dumb, but it sure was funny.” We need more belly shakin’, more god forsakin’, and more mind erasin’. And I need more toothpaste.

Finding real success at Davidson

Blur focus to find different types of success

Success is applauded at Davidson much as it seems to be everywhere. Glance through the rest of the Davidsonian if you haven't already, and just look at all the success. Most Davidson students seem to approach success. Smile at the sports victories, the grants and scholarships won, and the enormous endowment made possible by our “successful” alumni. Isn't it great? Through this news, some professors, maybe even your parents and friends, you may be persuaded to believe that success is based on grades, winning, and money. However, we often omit intangible successes—chiefly our own happiness—from the list. 

We plan to make decent grades, go on to graduate, medical, or law school without a hitch, and make a good salary. There’s nothing wrong with that; it is the track many of our parents followed. It’s wonderful if it is what you want. If this is what your parents want from you, what you feel obligated to do, or what you once wanted to undertake but no longer do, chances are you will be miserable. Remember, this is the anxiety in the hearts of more than a few students. Many of us, including myself, had a much clearer idea of what we would like to do with our lives in early childhood than we do now. Being open to a range of possibilities isn’t bad. In fact, ridding me of a career focus is probably one of the best things Davidson has done for me. It is easy to forget that college provides us with unique options. Never again will we have the opportunity to explore a wide variety of subjects—take advantage of it. Who wants to take only classes from his or her major? 

So it seems that Davidson itself may be the source of many success stereotypes. For example, signs announcing that 85 percent of Davidson students go onto graduate school appeared around campus a couple of weeks ago, no doubt spurring anxiety. Instead of becoming too goal-oriented and focused, blur your interests a little. You may find something better to focus on, something at which you will be truly successful.

Alenda Lux

Note

It’s the small things that make this world better. Layout is a small thing. Call Randy Skattum at x6667.

HAVE AN OPINION? WRITE IT DOWN. Call David (x6731) or Kristen (x6640).