TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

Arguments for sororities are not convincing

Various articles opposing sororities in the last two Davidsonians. Finally, at least four of the many like-minded people with whom I have come into contact are speaking their side of the debate on sororities at Davidson. I still, however, feel compelled to chime in with my objections to the proposed institution of sororities here. It is only if individuals who are of a particular opinion make their presence and number known that the point can be made. The previous articles have made excellent points and stated very clearly what has been on the minds of a number of women on campus. I simply have a few more things which I have not heard mentioned.

For instance, I desperately wish that people like Buster Burk would stop saying that sororities provide a “tighter community among women” than do eating houses. I realize that two of the three eating houses are very large. But as many of you may know, the third currently has only 60 members. And I guarantee you that it is a tightly-knit community. Even with 30 more members, I believe it would be as close as it is now. Even the larger houses seem reluctant to split up, which indicates to me that they are at least in some significant way bonded, or consider themselves a community. Do we have to have secret handshakes and other “secret rituals,” as Burk says, to be truly close? In Connor, we do not have a secret handshake, nor is anything about our house particularly secret, but we have plenty of tradition. We have a chant, we have a dance that we do to “I Will Survive” (whenever and wherever it is played), and only we strip to our bras (our real bras) and streak the Court at self-selection, I’m proud to say. I’m sure Rusk and Warner have their own traditions, too.

Furthermore, I find the entire equality argument ridiculous. When a section of the flier on sororities boasts that, “In combining the eating houses and sororities, the women have an equivalent experience to the men’s for the same amount of money... Equality!” I thought I would vomit. If gender equality on this campus requires sororities, then I... well, I’m speechless. Equality is not the issue. If we were trying to establish equality with the men’s social organizations, we’d have five eating houses and five fraternities on the Court. As far as I’m concerned, women have a superior establishment in the eating houses to the men’s fraternities. Self-selection, contrary to one faculty member’s article, is not a “joke” — for the eating houses, that is. In the eating house system, self-selection is just what it says it is. We don’t subject ourselves or each other to the intense social pressure of rushing a particular house, which not only requires an undue amount of time (attending the preferred house’s functions and generally getting in good with members), but also the subjection of pledging or humiliation or rejection. There can be nothing more uplifting to a freshwoman than the selection of the house of her choice, whereupon her selection she is welcomed and fussed over as a desired new sister. We don’t “import” sororities from other schools for parties or other functions, or visit them at other schools. This is damaging enough to dating and gender relations, which some lament quite vocally, at Davidson. Imagine what would happen if we had sororities here: Greeks consort with Greeks, girls go where guys are, and eating houses are dead.

My final concern is the effect of sororities on women who have not yet decided to come to Davidson, those women still flipping through the Princeton Review’s Top 310 Colleges. I, and many women I know, have explicitly stated that the eating house system at Davidson was one of the deciding factors in our decision to apply or attend. I would have, as might others, kept flipping through that catalog if I’d seen sororities listed in the sidebar. I didn’t want to chance a school where I might have had to put up with the self-degradation of rushing a sorority. We are told that sororities at Davidson will not be like that. But prospective students don’t know that. The Princeton Review is not going to list “pseudo-sorority” as a social option for women. If these women are anything like me in the early stages of my college search, they’ll keep flipping, too. What about the Class of 2001? Aren’t we cheating them out of what they were led to expect from Davidson? Sororities are not simply another option. They are an option in direct opposition to the existing system of self-selection. Those of us who value and support the existing system have an equal right to preserve it, even at the cost of the minority right. I can’t wait to see the SGA’s count of exactly how many women do want sororities.

The flu-shot may be dying. I’m not sure. I could be typing my last words, and there’s nothing I can do about it. So while I still have the strength left to type, I must tell the story of my demise. I uncovered — too late — one of the most insidious plots ever perpetrated against college students anywhere. Flu shots were given Wednesday on Chambers lawn, supposedly available to the entire campus. Not expecting the self-preservation instincts of the student population, I un- conspiracy: Save yourself! end, I see all of the myriad events of this deep-reaching conspiracy. Each of my professors had made some hint about the unlikeliness of snow and the lack of cold weather in Davidson. They had all spoken with smiling faces, all the while implanting subconscious ideas deep in my mind. Every word was meant to lull me into a false sense of security about the warmth and health of the environment: Small seeds of doubt about the flu shot were being cultivated. I was healthy. It was warm. Why would I want a flu shot? It was just so much bother that could be avoided. Concerning the posters used to empire. Maybe the building that is going on in front of Dana is not really a companion biology building. If you squint just right at those girders you can start to see a hanger for a bizarre alien space dish.spoken to the workers at the building and was assured that no such thing was in the works, but I could have sworn that their pupils were vertical and they blinked from the sides of their eye sockets. The puzzled glances I got were most likely the symbol on their planet for fear of one who has guessed close to the truth. There was even a clue in our very own Davidsonian that the aliens were hatching a plot. The front-page pic- they had told him there were no more flu shots given as of about 3:15 p.m. My first thought was not about myself and the fact that I had not yet gotten one; instead, I thought first about the greater college community and realized the dastardly plot afoot. Through an apparently innocent misjudgment on the amount of vaccine necessary, the College, acting in conjunction with secret government departments, was trying to kill off the entire procrastinating segment of its student population, myself among them. By the time I found out about the “shortage,” it was too late to stop them. With time now to think as I await the ture of the there was founda- a short- tions of age offy “Through an apparently innocent misjudgment on the amount of vaccine necessary, the College, acting in conjunction with secret government departments, was trying to kill off the entire procrastinating segment of its student population.” ~ been an who lives down the hall that ment. to advertise this helpful campus event: Were they witty references to the popular movie “Men in Black,” or were they something much deeper and more sinister? What better way to allay fear about a government plot masterminded by members of their alien ally than to come right out and put it on a poster? That little alien popping up in front was not just a humorous electronic puppet but the purple-blooded mastermind behind the whole plan. And these were not just simple posters. They were commercial, color, and laser-printed. A college flu shot campaign could not mount this kind of advertising. It would take the resources of a nation or an alien was OK to land here now, complete them. The foundation looked a lot like landing pad markings to me. Maybe it was the message that it with a diagram. The Davidsonian has been expanding its circulation. The question is whether they have been expanding beyond our solar system. With all of this evidence, don’t be surprised when the flu virus canisters arrive from out of a blue sky. The aliens are coming, and they need procrastinators gone before they arrive. I’m not sure why. Maybe their planet is always on time and can’t bear to see time wasted. If there are flu shots anytime in the near future, get them. Save yourself!

Experiential learning

Davidson College has a sustained commitment to academic excellence that permeates the college community. We are here to learn; as students, we experience the enormity of that commitment daily. That needed to be said, because I cannot make it clear enough that I do not take issue with the rigor of this institution. I am a Davidson student in large part because of the quality of thought that we demand from each other. However, one thing about the way we teach and learn has begun to trouble me: meaning. How does this knowledge, which we are all so busy gathering, fit into the broader context of our lives? On the surface, the answer is probably obvious for most professors — knowledge is your work. But if you dig beyond that or go back to your own time as a student when the world was an unfolding expanse of possibility, the answer probably becomes more nebulous. Thirteen years ago, when Dr. John Kuykendall took the reins as president of this institution, he spoke of two words which he hoped Davidson students would embody: scholarship and servanthood. Earlier this month when we gathered to celebrate the inauguration of our new president, I heard a startling echo to what Dr. Kuykendall had said all those years ago. President Vagt’s image of the Davidson student was not limited to work done in the classroom but broadened to include work done in the world. The thing that sets Davidson people apart from others is not simply the quality of our minds, but the quality of our commitment to the people around us. If you open the Red Book and leaf through the beginning pages, you will find this sentiment echoed in the Statement of Purpose. We are not simply here to collect knowledge, but rather to become useful people with the ability and desire to apply our knowledge in the world. That rhetoric is another reason I came to Davidson. But after two years, I look around and I am saddened to see that this institution is not doing all that it can to foster such growth in its students. As a school, we need to broaden our commitment to experiential education. Let me define what this word means to me. Experiential learning bridges the gap between academia and the rest of the world. It puts knowledge into action. Teaching, whether it’s one to one or one to 200, is experiential; that’s one of the reasons it was probably easier for the teachers to answer my earlier question, but experiential learning doesn’t stop there. Internships in a field where a student has some background — translating and distributing information on healthcare options to people who otherwise would never receive the information, working in a clinic, traveling across Europe taking photographs and writing stories, doing an oral history project, working in groups to solve problems that any individual in the group would have great difficulty solving alone, living homeless on the streets for 48 hours — all these things and many more fall under the umbrella of experiential education for me, and we are not doing enough of them. While I do not contend that experiential education alone will immediately transform Davidson to a place which creates the type of citizens of which we so often speak, I do believe it will push us towards that metamorphosis. In addition, there would also be some amazing side effects. More experiential learning would solidify bonds between students, faculty, and the community, and it would be a time. But, in all honesty, my opinion doesn’t count for much when I’m one voice crying out alone. I need to know what you think. Right now I’m trying to gather an interested group of people to discuss the issue and see how experiential education fits in at Davidson. I hope this group will include students, faculty, and staff, so I urge anyone with an opinion to be involved in the discussion. If you have any questions, concerns, or you just want to talk, then call me or e-mail me (x6573, v.m. 3826, wibadsaw@davidson.edu).