— Music in two hours or less —

At the Clubs Compiled by Wesley Goldsberry

Tuesday, Sept. 2
Fat City: The Newcastle Boys
Millennium Center, Winston-Salem: Squirrel Nut Zippers w/ Bio Ritmo

Wednesday, Sept. 3
Caffe Cafe: JD Wilson
Double Door: The Ruffians
Fat City: Like Hell w/ Ublisch
Fat Tuesdays: Dead Letter Office
Tremont: Bio Ritmo

Thursday, Sept. 4
Caffe Cafe: Mandyl Evans
Double Door: Cashmere Jungle Lords w/ Aqualads
Jack Straw’s: Gran Torino
Moon Room: The Nudes

Friday, Sept. 5
Amos’: Jupiter Coyote
Baha: “Electronica” w/ Dis Matt Bolick and Devin
Jack Straw’s: The Zen Tricksters
Magnolia Street Pub, Spartanburg: Southern Culture on the Skids
Tremont: It Could Be Nothing/Black Plastic/Liquid Gang
Ziggy’s, Winston-Salem: Testament w/ Stuck Mojo and Strapping Young Lads

Saturday, Sept. 6
Amos’: Athenaeum w/ The Goodies
Fat City: Slick Pelt w/ Crime Scene 13
Jack Straw’s: Grinch w/ The Chocolate Hippies
Record Exchange Open Stage: 12-Gauge Slug (2 p.m.)
Southend Brewery: The Magpies
Tremont: Come on Thunderchild CD Release Party

Sunday, Sept. 7
Fat City: Latino Chrome
Knucklehead’s: Top Cat
Record Exchange Open Stage: Texas Vampires
Southend Brewery: Michelle Lawing

---

My life nearly changed. In the beginning, there was the pizza bar. Then, for a while, there was nothing. This past week, however, marked another innovation in Vail Commons that may just usher in an era of sweeping reform and unheard-of upheaval.

Seldom do I actually look at what I am getting to eat in the Commons because, after a while, it all looks the same. The one exception, other than ice cream, is the breakfast cereal. In general, the selection presented in the Commons is quite good, with all manner of crunchy, sugary cereals that are greatly to my liking. This past Saturday, though, something was amiss. What unpleasant madness was this, I thought, where is the promised cocoa taste?!? Where is the sugar and chocolate rush foretold in the Book of Tony? Who stole the “Grrrreat!” part, reducing this to a cereal about which one could only say “They’re?” Perhaps, I decided, there was a delay, and I needed only for the milk to work its magic and release the demoniacal flavor hiding within, taunting me. I waited.

I had some waffle. (Which, by this point, was stone cold. I fully intend to license the Davidson waffle formula out to companies needing an inexpensive heat-shielding material, as I see that the Lucky Charms had already been devoured, and, not being desperate enough to snort the colorful powdery remains, I cast about for an alternative.) That was when I happened upon them. At first, I thought there had been some bizarre accident that had mutated the Golden Grahams into flakes. Thinking that too far-fetched, I considered the possibility that the highly publicized, utterly diverse class of 2001 had demanded darker cornflakes to maintain racial equality (a possibility that I have not yet entirely dismissed). It was not until I saw the label taped to the bin that I actually believed it. These were Cocoa Frosted Flakes.

I was taken aback. Was it not only days prior that I had seen the first commercials, heralding their arrival? Could it be that Davidson had secured one of the very first shipments? Was this finally one of the long-promised improvements I’d heard murmurs of from President Haselden? My heart pounding, I reached for the scoop to put some into my bowl. At this moment, however, I paused. This seemed entirely too good to be true. I have yet to eat a waffle here that was hot enough to melt crock. When I returned my attention to the bowl, I was surprised to find that the milk had turned brown. Undoubtedly this was the sign I had been waiting for! As I tentatively lowered my spoon, I noticed something incredible. The milk had acquired a cocoa skin! I prodded it to be sure, and there was no mistaking it. After some difficulty, I managed to hoist a spoonful, flakes, skin and all, to my mouth. The milk now had a weak cocoa flavor, like something you’d make for your kid brother when you’re saving all the syrup for yourself, so that you can drink it straight from the bottle. The flakes were lifeless. I could discern none of the signature sweetness that usually graces the normal variety. Drained of any flavor they might have had, the flakes were a disappointment.Remaining few drifted listlessly in my bowl. As I took them to the conveyor, I could swear I could hear them not snap-crackle-and-popping, but crying, moaning, and begging for me to forgive them and put them out of their misery. Hedging my bets, I slowly scooped out a half scoopful, and scooped them, slowly, carefully, into my waiting, yearning bowl. I took the bowl over to the MilkMaster 300, and set the dial to 2%, not wanting to crush the flakes. Fearing a powerful reaction, I shielded my eyes as I let the smooth, creamy whiteness flow over the rough brown flakes. I then rushed to find a table, not wanting to miss a single phase of the inevitable crunchy-to-mushy gauntlet that waited for me in the next moments.

Grabbing my spoon as I sat, I took a moment to thank whatever higher power was listening for the diverse, gimmick-driven children's cereal market that had made this possible. Lifting the first spoonful to my mouth, I shuddered with anticipation. I put it in, and suctioned off this new creation to my tongue, and stopped. Looking back, I suppose it was a valiant effort by the Commons staff to rock the boat — and perhaps redefine how we see breakfast — but it was an abject failure in the end. If only they had thoroughly researched the matter, and chosen one of the more proven breakfast cereals, such as Cocoa Puffs, Cocoa Krispies, or — dare I dream it, yes, yes, darn all, I must! — Count Chocula, this tragedy could have been averted. As it stands, I will look forward to the day when the Commons will entice me to come to breakfast on weekdays by offering a cereal so compelling that I would wake up extra early and stumble in just to have some.

Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22)
A bread-free life leads to gargantuan herds of unhappiness. Do not be seduced by false prophets discounting the importance of pasta!
Lucky Place for Love: Wendy’s

Libra (Sept. 23-Oct. 22)
Juggling too many interests proves detrimental to your social life. Concentrate on simplicity, and all will fall into place.
Lucky Place for Love: the Cafe

Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21)
Be all you can be! The week will bear bountiful opportunity; don’t squander a chance to challenge the status quo.
Lucky Place for Love: Second Rich

Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21)
Drought ends! Do not work overly hard and miss out on fruitful, life-changing opportunities. Go and meet the people you’ve only dreamed of talking to.
Lucky Place for Love: the salad bar

Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19)
Beware of falling objects; the roof may be caving in as you sleep! Avoid bagels and all things purple until the coast is clear.
Lucky Place for Love: the Batcave

Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18)
Do not take small things for granted, for someday soon they will blossom into full-grown eucalyptus trees. Be patient, and wait till the time is right to make your move.
Lucky Place for Love: the post office

Pisces (Feb. 19-Mar. 20)
Whatever you do, do NOT set foot in the library, lest some horrible tragedy befall your relatively normal life. Beware of stagnant air!
Lucky Place for Love: the tennis courts

Aries (Mar. 21-Apr. 19)
Too much partying will cause pain and suffering in other areas of life. Remember, all things in moderation: Tempering fun with slumber, food, and academics will pay off in the long run.
Lucky Place for Love: the infirmary

Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20)
A serendipitous windfall will leave you breathless and content. Maximize procrastination potential, and don’t be afraid to beg for extensions.
Lucky Place for Love: the Lake

Gemini (May 21-Jun. 20)
Reclaim what was put on hold over the summer. Fear not! Don’t hesitate and waste precious time.
Lucky Place for Love: Sentelle

Cancer (Jun. 21-Jul. 22)
You will regain control of a chaotic situation. Keep your head clear, and don’t be deterred by what others have said.
Lucky Place for Love: Blockbuster Pavilion

Leo (July 23-Aug. 22)
Relationship that once needed space will reignite with blazing flames of passion. This is IT!
Lucky Place for Love: the football field