THE DAVIDSONIAN
By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

GREENSBORO — When a team has one great receiver, the opposition can counter his impact on the game by double-teaming him to make sure he does not get the ball. But when a team has two great receivers, it’s another story. Guilford sports two outstanding receivers in seniors Junior Lord and William Rochelle. Lord had 12 receptions for 135 yards and two touchdowns, and became Guilford’s career pass receiving yardage leader. Rochelle had 11 receptions for 181 yards and one touchdown, and stepped up when necessary. And Davidson fell to the Quakers 25-22 Saturday here at Armfield Athletic Center.

“Their timing was phenomenal,” defensive coordinator Tripp Merritt said. “They ran good routes and the quarterback knew where he was throwing the ball. The thing is you can’t double one because you are going to leave somebody alone. They are that scary, they are that deadly.”

The game started as a defensive battle and, at the end of the first quarter, neither team had scored. But in the second quarter Guilford’s passing offense kicked in with two touchdown passes by Dan Strelkauskas to Lord. Strelkauskas had a big day, going 21-for-43 for 302 yards with three touchdowns and two interceptions. He also became Guilford’s career passing yards leader Saturday. But the Wildcats came right back after a great defensive stand that held the Quakers to three plays for a loss of 15 yards. Davidson scored a touchdown on a one-yard run by Tommy Dugan, and the extra point by Brian Langley cut Guilford’s lead to six going into halftime.

The Quakers made the first strike in the second half with a two-yard run by Marquez Williams, but the Wildcats countered the score with a six-yard Tommy Dugan rush. The Quakers did not handle the option well, and Dugan had a great day, running the ball 18 times for 99 yards. He also went 19-for-37 with one touchdown and four interceptions.

“He’s a tough kid,” coach Tim Landis said. “He embraces those opportunities and I think we (the coaches) put him in some tough situations. Guilford played awfully well, too. I thought they had a good pass rush.”

In the fourth quarter, the Wildcats took a 20-19 lead on a 22-yard pass from Dugan to rookie Corey Crawford. Crawford had an outstanding performance with five receptions for 81 yards. But the Quakers came right back with another touchdown pass, this one to Rochelle. The Quakers then got the ball back on a Dugan interception, and took a safety on fourth down. The Wildcats got the ball back, and Ryan Crawford ran the ball back past midfield for Davidson. But time ran out on the Wildcats. It was a hard-fought loss that came down to Guilford’s passing offense and Davidson’s inability to protect the football — the Wildcats had six turnovers.

“We just turned it over way too much,” Landis said. “We’ve done it two weeks straight now. We’ve got to improve in that area or we are going to struggle. I feel very confident that we will stop turning it over, and we will be alright.”

Crawford twins make most of opportunity
By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

GREENSBORO — With Roland Williams down and out with a sprained ankle for most of the second half and Mike Harrington on the sidelines with a broken finger, opportunity knocked. And Corey Crawford and Ryan Crawford, rookie twins from Newton, N.C., opened the door — and stepped right into the fray Saturday here at Armfield Athletic Center. Corey caught a team-high five Tommy Dugan passes on the afternoon in what was by far his finest effort as a collegiate. Three of those receptions came on the Wildcats’ eight-play, 71-yard go-ahead drive late in the fourth quarter. His second reception on the drive — a spectacular shoe-string effort — came in a crucial third-and-seven situation. And the final catch, a 22-yard score in which he fielded a short screen from Dugan and then raced to the end zone, put Davidson up 20-19 with 5:41 left in the game.

“In the past, Roland’s been catching a lot of passes. He’s been getting a lot of respect,” Corey said. “And they’ve kind of been slacking up on the rest of us. And with Roland and Mike Harrington down, I just knew I had to step up and make some plays. I got my chance and I tried to do what I could.”

As did brother Ryan, who provided a 40-yard kickoff return in the last minute of the game in a play that for an instant looked to have touchdown written all over it. “I saw the green, man,” Ryan said, “and somebody just caught me from behind. I thought I had it. I saw the seam.”

Langley still perfect
Wildcats placekicker Brian Langley, a junior in his first season as a starter, is still perfect this fall. After converting both his point after touchdown opportunities here on Saturday, Langley is 18-for-18 on extra points and two-for-two on field goals.

Injury report: Defensive lineman Tom Ting, who injured his knee last week against Emory & Henry, may return next weekend at Washington & Lee but will most likely play again in the Wildcats’ Homecoming clash Oct. 18 versus Methodist. Harrington, currently nursing a dislocated finger he had to have surgically repaired earlier this week, is shooting for Homecoming as well. Williams suffered a sprained ankle midway through Saturday's game. Although he didn’t play for much of the second half against Guilford, he should be back for W & L.

“Harrington’s at least another week and Ting’s going to be day-to-day this week,” coach Tim Landis said. “We’ll just have to wait and see what the doctors say.”

The Wildcats’ 39.3-points-a-game scoring average compiled over the first three weeks of the season put Davidson ninth in all of I-AA in scoring going into Saturday's action. For basis of comparison, the Wildcats averaged 12.9 points per outing through an entire season just three years ago.

Quaker-Wildcat nail-biting
Even with the loss to the Quakers, the Wildcats still hold a 19-9-1 advantage in this intra-state series — one that has had no dearth in excitement in recent years. Two years ago here at Guilford, the Quakers’ Chris Meehl kicked an 18-yard field goal at the horn to steal a 28-25 victory. And last year under the lights at Richardson, a late-game Guilford field goal attempt fell short, as the Wildcats escaped, 13-10. So did it really surprise the Wildcats when this year’s meeting was decided by — what else — three points?

“I don’t even remember freshman or sophomore year,” said cornerback Clif Henry, who intercepted a Quaker pass. “I have aHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

hard time remembering things from the past.”... Williams, arguably the most impressive single Wildcat so far this season, has already built an impressive 1997 resume. Not only has the speedster been named NCAA Division I-AA Independents special teams player of the week twice, but he entered Saturday ranked in the nation’s top 13 in three key categories: 10th in kickoff returns (30.1 yards), 12th in scoring (10.0 points per game), and 13th in all-purpose yards (153.5).

Wildcats scoff at Quaker rush ranking

Guilford entered Saturday's contest ranked 23rd nationally in Division II in run defense, having limited its first three opponents to an average of 82 yards per game on the ground. But that number should drop significantly after the Wildcats compiled 176 yards rushing, led by Dugan’s 99. Meanwhile, thanks in part to Junior Lord’s self-imposed safety at the end of the fourth quarter — the senior star took a punt snap and ran 56 yards into his own end zone in an effort to waste time — Davidson held the Quakers to -9 yards rushing... tailback Lorenzo Moll, who exploded two weeks ago against Sewanee for two touchdown runs of over 80 yards, was quiet for a second straight week. Following a 1-yard outing last week at E & H, Moll had 24 yards on six carries Saturday... with his 12-catch, 135-yard, two-touchdown performance, Lord became Guilford’s all-time receiving yardage leader... Quaker quarterback Danny Strelkauskas, who completed 21 of 43 passes for 302 yards and three scores, became the school’s all-time passing leader... Saturday’s game was played in Guilford County, “North Carolina’s Future,” according to a slightly overzealous sign off Interstate-40 on the outskirts of Greensboro... Santore-speak: Frank Santore, play-by-play announcer on the Davidson Radio Network, on a three-yard reception by Moll where the junior tailback fielded a pass in the backfield and eluded a number of would-be Quaker tacklers to pick up positive yardage: “He made chicken salad out of chicken you-know-what there.”

Davidsonian Sports — Division I coverage for Division I sports.

BLUE DOGS In Concert at Davidson! Homecoming Weekend, Friday, October 17, 1997 9:30 pm at Johnston Gym Free tickets with student ID available in advance OR $5 at door

By Michael J. Kruse Editor in Chief

GREENSBORO — It is a simple football fact: turn the ball over six times, and in all likelihood you aren’t going to win. And that’s exactly what happened to the football squad Saturday here at Armfield Athletic Center, as the Wildcats — now 2-2 after having started the season with a pair of impressive victories — fell victim to four interceptions and two fumbles on their way to a demoralizing 25-22 loss to Guilford.

So what was it? Just bad luck?

“Exactly,” defensive coordinator Tripp Merritt said. “It just didn’t go our way today. It went their way. They couldn’t miss.”

“We just turned it over way too much,” coach Tim Landis said. “We’ve done that for two weeks now. We’ve got to improve in that area or we're going to struggle. There’s not a football team around that can turn it over like we have.”

At least not if it expects to win. And the problems started right from the get-go. After taking the opening kickoff and driving 60 yards in an efficient and effective 11-play five-minute drive, quarterback Tommy Dugan threw his first interception into the arms of Quaker lineman Jason Laners. For all the great things Dugan did Saturday — 19-for-37 passing for 162 yards and 99 yards rushing — the junior signal-caller did have a hand in all six Wildcat turnovers. Along with four interceptions, he lost his handle on the football after a brilliant 16-yard option pick-up early in the second quarter. And just before halftime, Dugan let loose with what appeared to be an ill-advised pitch attempt to tailback Lorenzo Moll, which led to another Davidson fumble just before halftime.

But, according to Landis, the blame should not sit solely on Dugan’s shoulders.

“The coaches, we need to take responsibility for that,” the fifth-year head coach said. “We probably put him in some situations where we were making him do too much, asking him to do too much. But he’s a tough kid, and I think he embraces those opportunities.

“Between running and throwing the football, he was a busy guy. He played his heart out, and you certainly can’t attribute the turnovers to him.”

“It’s just bad luck,” cornerback Clif Henry said. “I thought we were ready to play, but I think it took us two-and-a-half or three quarters to finally decide to play.

“Those are just big mistakes we can’t afford to make. The ball didn’t bounce our way a few times.”

“Some days the ball just doesn’t bounce your way,” wide receiver Eric Sapp added.

But the fact of the matter is, the Wildcats were their own worst enemy against the Quakers. Davidson gift-wrapped this one, handing Guilford its third win on a silver platter.

“Those turnovers hurt a lot of our big drives,” rookie Corey Crawford said. “You never know, if we hadn’t turned the ball over, we might have been in the end zone.”

Still, though, the Wildcats only lost by a field goal Saturday. And last week at Emory & Henry’s Fullerton Field — site of the second-longest home winning streak in all of college football, behind only Nebraska’s Lincoln venue — they fell to the Wasps’ juggernaut in a relatively tight 14-point decision.

“The thing is, even with turning it over, we’ve had a chance to win here in the last two weeks,” Landis pointed out while preparing to head home after Saturday’s loss. “So if we can just get that right — and we will — I think we'll be alright. I feel very confident we'll stop turning it over.”

Saturday vs. Washington & Lee 2:00 p.m. @ Wilson Field @ Lexington, Va.

Coach: Frank Miriello
Current Record: 0-4
Last Year's Record: 5-5
Last Meeting: Oct. 12, 1996 — Davidson; 23-12 (at Richardson Field)
Players to Watch: Christian Batcheller (So., QB, 6-3, 215), Chas Chastain (Jr., WR, 6-0, 185), Omar Moneim (Sr., DL, 6-3, 230), Jack Boyd (Sr., DL, 5-11, 225), John Benazzi (Sr., DB-WR, 5-10, 170)

Notes: Sophomore Christian Batcheller is the starting quarterback for the Generals, taking the place of four-year starting quarterback Brooks Fischer (brother of former Duke signal-caller Spence Fischer), who broke every W & L career passing mark... senior end Jack Boyd earned All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference honors last year, making 79 tackles and 6 sacks... John Benazzi is dangerous on kickoff and punt returns, averaging 25.9 yards a kickoff returns with two touchdowns last year... Generals coach Frank Miriello was named ODAC coach of the year last season.

Eric Sapp on the Generals: “We will beat Washington & Lee.”
Clif Henry on the Generals: “They are a big rival of ours. They're a good school and a good football program. So we’re looking forward to that game.”
Coach Tim Landis on the Generals: “I think it will be very close. It’s a big game — a lot of pride and rivalry on the line. It's going to be a dog fight, and it's going to be the team that makes the fewest mistakes in the end that will win.”

J.M.