By Jason Hamrick, Guest Writer

Do you remember the story of the blind man who tried to describe an elephant? He describes the trunk, legs, tail, and ears, but he never describes the elephant. In that sense, Danielle Howle and The Tantrums are a musical elephant and I am a blind man. They invent music that exists at the lunatic fringe of any true genre, so I am forced to create my own — FolkRockPost-PunkCountryTwang-core. That is the best way to describe Howle and the Tantrums’ sound because it flirts with each of these styles, but never becomes comfortable in any single one.

“Yeah, but what do they sound like?” Easy references can be made to Joni Mitchell, Ani DiFranco, or any number of female singer-songwriters, but none of those comparisons accurately describe Howle’s particular style. Her songs slide effortlessly among current genres. The songs tell stories that pluck little bits of truth from everyday occurrences. Howle’s particular gift is that she glimpses into the moments of our lives and sees the tiny plum of truth.

“So it’s Danielle Howle and she’s got this back-up band?” Blasphemy. Danielle and the Tantrums are a unit, a crack-team of sound commandos, specially trained in the art of rock and roll, lullaby, and ballad. Howle sings — and I do mean sings — and plays guitar, Troy Tague holds down the drum kit, and John Furr fights with his guitar while Bryan “Big Horse” Williams plays bass from underneath a head of hair held on by a Bud cap. They are four elements of a whole, four parts of a machine that runs on Camaro Power.

Yes, but what do they sound like? I already told you, they are FolkRockPost-PunkCountryTwang-core. Do you still not believe me? Listen to WALT AM 1610 Saturday at 1:00 p.m., then come down to the Outpost, where they’re playing live at 10 p.m. Meet them. Greet them. Listen. And enjoy.

Outpost Saturday night at 10 p.m.

By Eric Borgstrom, Amy Marks, Lindsay Meyers, and Mitch Shores, Student Health Advisors

We're back with another installment of The Student Body! We’ve had a great week talking to PE 101 classes about date rape, and we really appreciate the warm reception that we’ve received from both faculty and students. This week, the column is going to deal with something that we all love: FOOD!

Some hall counselors and resident advisors have approached us about their concerns for people on their halls and their eating habits. We're going to discuss both extremes — eating too much and eating too little. Overall good nutrition includes both quality and quantity. Too often people think of Coke and a microwave pizza as a complete meal. While this may provide them with enough substance, it is definitely not a healthy diet.

A well-balanced meal means going back to first grade and remembering the four food groups: dairy, grain, meat, and fruits and vegetables. A microwave pizza does not have the protein that an equal amount of lean meat would contain. Similarly, soda may provide the energy that you are looking for to stay awake in your next class, but it does not have the nutritional value of carbohydrates.

While we know that society places an emphasis on appearance and that the “Freshman 15” is a formidable threat, it is crucial that people find a balance between calories burned and calories consumed. Exercising three or four times a week is enough to regulate your metabolism and stay fit. It is not necessary to work out two or more times a day. In fact, it is actually detrimental to work the same muscle groups two consecutive days. People who work out regularly should replenish their energy supply by eating carbohydrates daily as well as eating several servings of iron-rich food such as red meat or green vegetables.

Your body image and perception of food is just as important as a healthy diet. If you feel that you have a handle on this whole issue, maybe you should watch what you say around others — in other words, use some tact and be sensitive. At Davidson,Our conversations are often focused around food. Moving talk away from food and eating is one easy way to help others who may be struggling. If you suspect you or someone you know may have an eating disorder, we urge you to talk to someone — a friend, a roommate, a professor, one of us, a person at the Student Health Center, or someone else you trust.

We received a question concerning healthy physical and psychological sexual relationships on Davidson’s campus. This is an issue we would like to explore in the future. If you have any comments concerning this topic, or any other questions, please send them to: The Student Body, c/o Mitch Shores, P.O. Box 4180.

English seminar pulls all-nighter
Class sets new record in Ulysses reading
By HAWEE ROSE
Staff Writer

You may have been doing one of several things on Friday night. Going to some unknown destination, partying on the Court, enjoying the Charlotte music festival, or maybe even studying — all viable options. Whatever it was, you probably did not know that at 8:00 p.m. Professor Kuzmanovich’s English Seminar on James Joyce and Vladimir Nabokov was carrying out an old Irish tradition. The members of the class were each taking turns reading aloud from James Joyce’s Ulysses in the third-floor lounge of Martin Court F. This entire process takes about 24 hours. This year, the class broke the Davidson record of 25 hours and 45 minutes, completing the reading at a new record time of 24:50:40. The seminar read from 8:00 p.m. Friday night, well into the night and early morning, finishing the next day.

Why did they do this? Not only is it a College tradition, but Kuzmanovich points to literary reasons when explaining why he incorporated the practice into his seminar for the seventh time. The actions of the novel take place in a 24-hour time period, and Joyce intended for it to be read orally. In general, the class members each took turns reading chapters. But when the text became more difficult, each person would read a page or so. Joyce is known for his complex syntax. Most of the students read in an American accent, but Vic Brand reportedly read in an Irish accent.

Write for the Arts & Living people. Contact Wes (x6383, wegoldsberry) or Carrie (x6803, camorris).

Coffeehouse. It’s time to make — or at least eat — the donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. — or until the tasty treats become stale, whichever comes first. In the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Free caffeine. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

21-Year-Old Night. Drink ‘til you drop. Because you can. 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Crop Lunch. Food. 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Talkie talkie. Dr. Eric Cassell speaks on medical humanities. 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Coffeehouse. See Tuesday. Eat donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Presidential Inauguration. Hey, Bobby. 11:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. on Chambers Lawn.

Intercollegiate Canoe Race. For the third straight day, paddling paddlers paddle like no paddlers have ever paddled before. All day long.

Eating house skits. Play-acting, didactic to be sure. Noon-1:30 p.m. at Johnston Gym.

Nothing. Nothing is happening. Well, except for Tom & Viv in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m. (Stay after for reading of T.S. Eliot’s poetry and free food.)

Alumni recital. Rufus Hallmark, who went here, sings while Charles Burkhart plays the piano. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall.

Volleyball. The Wildcats battle the pesky Western Carolina Catamounts of beautiful, mountainous, nothing-to-do Cullowhee. 7:00 at Belk Arena.

Shadowlands. Tom & Viv. In the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

Danielle Howle. She plays guitar and sings. 10:00 p.m. at the Outpost.

Men’s Soccer. The Wildcats take on Central Florida in an epic clash. 2:00 p.m. at Richardson Field.

Volleyball. The women face the Chattanooga “36 percent graduation rate for athletes” Mocs. 3:00 p.m. at Belk Arena.

Jumpin’ Java. The proverbial and perpetual event, once again. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Jumpin’ Java. You know what it is. Now go. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Live Monday. Presenting live music on Monday! 9:30 p.m.-12:00 a.m. in the 900 Room.

“Feeling good.” Well, are you? 9:00 p.m.-10:30 p.m. in the Union Home Room.