THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ANDREW PRESTON
Staff Writer

Andrew Preston of the Davidsonian recently spoke with Patterson Court Council (PCC) president Hallie Pitkin. She described her plans and
hopes for the upcoming school year.

The Davidsonian: What goals does the PCC have for the upcoming year?

Pitkin: The PCC hopes to create a safer environment on the Court this year. Since the houses on the Court
serve alcohol, we must follow the regulations or constraints that a bar would follow. If we act like a bar
by providing alcohol to students outside of our eating house or fraternity, we need to perform like a bar in
the enforcement of our policies.

D: Are there any major changes in the alcohol policy this year?

P: One major change is that all students who purchase PCC stickers will have to sign a waiver stating that
they accept all liability or risk while on the Court. The other change is that the policies we already have
will be adhered to much more strictly. If we enforce these policies effectively, we can retain the freedom and responsibility
we are allowed by the College, rather than forcing the College to create further regulations.

D: How are the houses on the Court reacting to this stricter environment?

P: Most of the fraternities and eating houses really support the policies, whereas in the past many of them simply
followed the policies because they had to. There is a much greater understanding of why we need to enforce the
policies than in the past.

D: Have there been any new developments with the possibility of bringing sororities to Davidson?

P: Actually, we have recently received confirmation that 19 of the 26 national sororities from the NPC [National Pan-Hellenic Council]
are interested in starting a colony in Davidson. Of those, we will select five or six to visit the campus.
Then, depending on student interest, we will invite one or two of those to begin a colony at Davidson.

D: Are there any expected changes for specific eating houses or fraternities this year?

P: There will be quite a few changes in the self-selection process for the eating houses this year. Freshwomen will
be allowed to cluster up to four people, so that they will be ensured that some of their friends will
be in their eating house. Also, the whole self-selection process will be much more formalized. In the past, the process
has been based on a gentleman’s agreement.

D: Are these changes due to problems in the past with the self-selection process?

P: Yes. These changes are a response to the fact that many freshwomen in the past have been upset when
they don’t get into the eating house of their choice or the eating house that their friends get. Many freshwomen
don’t understand the selection process and feel that they will be automatically accepted into their first choice. There will also
be a meeting on September 24 to inform all freshwomen about the self-selection process.

D: Are there any other changes within the PCC this year?

P: We are hoping to coordinate more interfraternity events. The executives from each fraternity are expected to meet in October
to discuss ways to promote interaction between fraternities. And, of course, we have a new PCC advisor, Jim Barber.

D: What is your general attitude toward the PCC as you begin the new year?

P: I am very optimistic. Our Council seems supportive and enthusiastic, and Jim Barber is energetic and holds a positive
outlook. It should be a very productive year.

Dayley brings insight and Eastern culture to poli-sci courses

By JENNY HAPGOOD
Staff Writer

“Being exposed to a lot of things in the inter- in Thailand, I was ex- teacher. Only two weeks into
his teaching career, Dayley finds the most difficultAspect of teaching lies in making the transition from student to teacher. “As
a student, it’s easier to sit back and contribute when you can, but when you’re in front of the class,
teaching requires you to keep the conversation going,” he pointed out.

Robert Dayley is the rookie in the Political Science Department. Coming straight from graduate school, Dayley brings a new edge
to the department. Dayley hails from Northern Illinois where he received his Ph.D. Before graduate school, Dayley studied at Weber
(Mont.) State University and the University of Oregon. Between his freshman and sophomore years of college and then again during
his fourth year of graduate school, he studied in Thailand.

His experiences in Thailand led Dayley to pursue a career in academia as a political science professor. “Political science was
attractive because I always wanted to teach and politics seems like it’s always changing.”

Having attended large universities for the majority of his education, Dayley was attracted to Davidson because of its small class
size and its “motivated students.” Utilizing his knowledge of non-Western cultures, Dayley encourages students to appreciate and think differently about
material on which they do not normally concentrate. In his classroom, students spend their time writing and talking with each
other about various issues, and they are normally encouraged to discuss the material outside of class. Dayley supports participatory learning,
as he works towards overcoming the challenges of teaching. “The challenge of teaching is the ‘a-ha’ epiphany,” he said. “The
more you can get students to do that, the more successful you are.”

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

SGA Groups from page 2

Access, online services, and maintains SGA homepage. The Chairperson of this council may appoint its members.

Council on Minority Affairs reviews administrative policy and monitors progress on proposed programs and changes concerning minority issues. There is
one representative from each class and four minority students nominated by the Council Chair on Minority Affairs. (Patrick Damon)

Elections Council publicizes and conducts all elections and referenda. There are three members of the student body nominated by the
Council Chair and approved by the Senate. (Paul Dryden)

Student Advisory Councils:
- SAC to the Director of Residence Life (Meredith Judy and Towles Allison)
- SAC to the Director of Campus Safety (Lucian Dervan)
- SAC to the Director of Auxiliary Services (Foster Haseldon and Julia Chemotti)

(Each of the above SACs consists of one Senator and one other member of the student body.)

Faculty Committees:
Through an interview process in April, the SGA Senate appoints the following number of students to these Faculty and College
Advisory Committees: Academic Computing (2), Educational Policy (2), Library (2), International Education (2), Media Board (3), Pre-Management (2), Public Lectures
(1), Review Board (2).

College Advisory Councils:
- Admission and Financial Aid (2)
- Campus and Religious Life (4)
- Finance, Personnel and Development (2)
- Intercollegiate Athletics (2)
- Student Conduct Council (2)

The two Student Conduct Council members must be upperclassmen not serving on SGA. Two Campus and Religious Life members must
be upperclassmen not serving on SGA. The above councils list positions open to non-Senators. In addition to these positions, there
are Chairpersons and normally staff and Senate representatives. For more information, contact SGA Vice-President Ann Harriott Fisher.

The Davidsonian. Make waves with us. Positions always available in News, Sports, Arts & Living, and Opinions. If interested, contact
Michael Kruse at x6346 or mikruse.

Italy, Australia, Spain, France, Niger, Ecuador, China, Uruguay

A representative will be on campus:
Thursday, September 11th
Information Table
11:30 am — 1:30 pm
College Union Lobby
232 Bay State Road
Boston, MA 02215
617/353-9888
E-Mail: abroad@bu.edu
Visit our web page! http://www.bu.edu/abroad
An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution.
