DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997

Lacrosse tops Mt. St. Mary’s, pushes win streak to three
By Will Bradshaw
Sports Editor

The women’s lacrosse team hit the road this weekend, but the result was the same. Mount St. Mary’s was no match for the streaking Wildcats, who won their third straight and seventh in the last eight.

“We played in spurts,” coach Mary Schwartz said. “It was an up and down game for us. We didn’t play a full 60 minutes.”

Despite the spotty play, the team opened a five-goal lead at the half and coasted through the second half for the win. Goalkeeper Lisa Benjamin was a veritable wall, stopping 18 shots to help the Wildcats (7-4) to victory.

Allison Rhoads’ six-goal performance highlighted the Wildcat offense, and Linda Rothemund played table-setter, collecting five assists.

“Those two (Rothemund and Rhoads) were working with each other really well,” Schwartz said.

Sarah Hogan and Amanda Fleck each had three goals to round out the offensive punch.

“It was a sloppy field, and we looked a little tired at times,” Schwartz said. “We had moments of good play where we scored some nice goals, and then we fell apart a little bit. All in all, we outplayed them and definitely were the better team.”

They played at University of Maryland-Baltimore County late Sunday, and face off with Richmond (Wednesday), Mercyhurst (Saturday), and Ohio State (Sunday) later this week.

---

Anna Judy
Allison Rhoads, shown here scoring against Cornell, scored six goals in the Wildcats’ win Saturday.

---

Fantastic finish bodes well for next year’s squad
from page 13

the Year honors for the first time since 1993.

“Anytime you get that award,” Frank said, “It means your kids are playing great.”

Frank attributes that greatness to his top player, Jon Pastel.

“He’s got the heart of a lion, and the team sees that,” Frank said. “He’s the one that gets the team focused. I can’t do that. He demands it of them.

“I won’t ever see another guy like Jon Pastel in my coaching career. Of course, I’ve got him for another year, and I like that.”

In fact, almost all of this year’s team will be back next season. Derek Schulze is the only player set to graduate. He finished his Davidson career with a 6-2, 6-2 win over Aneil Ghosh of UNC Asheville for a third-place finish in the fourth singles flight.

That means the Wildcats should be favored to win the league championship behind the leadership of Pastel and the dominance of their doubles teams, all three of which will return fully intact.

However, next year’s tournament will change from its flighted format to dual competition, and the winner will receive an automatic bid into the NCAA tournament draw. These changes, combined with the quest for revenge after this year’s heartbreaking finish, could make next year even better for the Wildcats.

“We’re going to be in great shape next year,” Pastel said.

“This is the most incredible team I’ve ever coached,” said Frank. “They just fight and they don’t give up a thing.”

---

Sailing shocks competition, miraculous run ends four points short of Nationals
By Will Beasley
Staff Writer

The sailing team concluded its eye-opening...Season on April 2 by placing second in the North District and fourth out of 23 schools in the South Atlantic Conference championships. A late run left the Wildcats just short of nationals, but that didn’t dampen their accomplishments. In earlier qualifying regattas, the College of Charleston — currently ranked second in the world — took first in the North. But Davidson surpassed rivals Vanderbilt, The Citadel, Duke, and UNC-Wilmington to post a second-place finish, securing a bid to the 1997 Spring Championships. At the tourney, held in Charleston, S.C., the host Cougars again won easily, and Davidson, Florida, and Eckerd engaged in a dogfight for the silver medal and an automatic invitation to Nationals. After trailing in the morning races, over-achievers Brice Ivy, Graham Ernst, Lindsay O’Nell, and Will Beasley put forth a surge in the sixth and seventh rotation to recover ten points off of second. But ultimately, the Wildcats were unable to sustain their momentum and fell to both Florida and Eckerd. Despite the tease of what would have been an unexpected bid to nationals, Ernst was still content with the result. “I’m just proud of the effort and impressive performance the team squeezed out under pressure,” said the senior. “Especially considering we were the only non-varsity team of the top six. It’s scary to consider the potential success we might have had with a respectable amount of administrative support. At least we had fun.”

Golf team finishes eighth at conference championships
By MICHAEL KRUSE AND ANDY ARMSTRONG
Sports Editor and Staff Writer

The golf team shot a three-day total of 976 to finish eighth out of ten teams at the Southern Conference Championships April 14-15 at Stoney Creek Golf Club in Greensboro.

Celebrate Mother's Day Early!!! Join in the festivities and consciousness-raising events this Tuesday, April 22, Earth Day. Recycle, pick up garbage, emit less carbon monoxide. Give Mother Earth a big, ol' hug!

The performance was a disappointing finish to what was one of the best seasons in years. Furman captured the title by edging perennial league power East Tennessee St. on the second hole of a sudden-death playoff. The Paladins and Bucs, who have combined to win the last 10 conference crowns and 18 of 19, tied in regulation play, each with a score of 931.

“We did not have a very good overall tournament,” said coach Joe Mark. “But, all things considered, this team performed very well for the entire 1996-97 season.” Especially Jason Carlock, who finished fifth individually at Stoney Creek and earned one of the five coveted spots on the all-conference team, becoming the first Wildcat to do so since Sollie Foy in 1979. The senior co-captain, who averaged a 75 over 21 competitive rounds this year, posted a 78-73-71=232, finishing ten strokes behind tourney winner Jordan Byrd of Furman. The other four Wildcat golfers placed within four strokes of each other. David Alexander logged a total of 248, Jason Lina and Daniel Tedrick both finished at 249, and Conner Eldridge at 252.

“We will be looking forward to next year,” said Mark. “Hopefully the team will improve as much as this one did over the previous year.”