THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997

a) C.H.U.C.K. speaker urges anti-hazing stance

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Eileen Stevens delivered a lecture entitled “C.H.U.C.K. - A Mother’s Story” to a crowded student assembly this past Wednesday evening
in Love Auditorium. The acronym stands for Committee to Halt Useless College Killings. Stevens established the C.H.U.C.K. organization in response
to the tragic death of her son, for whom the organization is named. He was a victim in a hazing
incident at Alfred University’s Klan Alpine fraternity in 1978.

The C.H.U.C.K. organization works to bring about an awareness of hazing, and to prompt legislative action to deter hazing abuses.
The organization’s primary concern is ensuring the safety of students. As part of its mission, the C.H.U.C.K. organization documents the
many deaths and injuries resulting from hazing incidents that would not otherwise be made public.

In her address, Stevens emphasized that C.H.U.C.K. is not anti-fraternity but anti-hazing in its focus. “Hazing has no place at
any institution in any organization,” she said. “It compromises the dignity of human beings and defeats the fundamental principles upon
which the notion of brotherhood and sisterhood were founded.”

Stevens described hazing as wasteful and preventable. She cited alcohol, peer pressure, and the enforcement of sworn secrecy as chief
catalysts behind abusive hazing practices. Addressing her words specifically to the newest members of Patterson Court organizations, Stevens said, “Be
visible in the most positive way possible. Bond and unify by performing community service together, and show people the true
meaning of brotherhood and sisterhood.”

Stevens’ presentation was “extremely important,” said Patterson Court Council President John Cowan. “The talk was valuable because it gave a
firsthand account of the real consequences of hazing and peer pressure which is exactly what the new member orientation program
is designed to do,” he said.

Assistant Director of Residence Life Beth Searcy said Stevens was invited because “we most want that pledging be a positive
building experience, one that empowers rather than degrades the individual.” Stevens addressed this idea of empowerment when she said, “We
need leaders, people who are accountable, who have the courage to speak out, who know that their voice can make
a difference.”

Sponsors of the C.H.U.C.K. organization program were very pleased by the student turnout. However, they say that they must still
remain concerned about the program’s actual application within the realm of Patterson Court fraternities and eating houses. Resident Advisor Paul
Dryden expresses concerns. “The program was provocative, but my concern is that the message may not carry over well in
the heat of pledging activities,” Dryden says. “People may distance themselves emotionally from what they heard.”

Stevens’ presentation was one in a series of events in the Patterson Court Office’s new member orientation program. It will
be followed by others throughout the year.

President from page 1

Buford lists the creation of the Town Liaison committee, his handling of the VCF controversy, and his support of the
Rides Program. He admits that he pushed his own agenda. “I just worry that more things didn’t get done in
the Senate and it might be because we pushed for our own goals too hard.”

Buford says that the biggest problem he sees with the SGA is the top-heavy direction that it has been headed
in the last few years. “We had people that are capable but it’s got to be a group effort. Some
people don’t contribute their share.” Still, Buford attributes much of his success to the capabilities and aid of the senators.
“Obviously, students have a lot of ability to do things. And the SGA has the ability to do a lot,”
he says.

On a more personal note, Buford cites the energy he brought to the job and the fundamental confidence about the
importance of the SGA in making Davidson better. He had “an ultimate enthusiasm.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

and belief that the SGA is a credible institution that demands the respect of the faculty and administration,” he says.
Buford also tried to establish a moderate position which, he says, contributed to his success. Rather than taking an aggressively
oppositional stance toward the administration, he opted for a more balanced approach. By refusing to compromise, “nothing will get done,”
he says. “There is nothing wrong with compromise.”

“I believe whole-heartedly in being fair to the point that it is stressful. You have to be able to listen
to both sides of the debate. You have to respect due process, people's rights, and listen to them,” he says.

As Buford sees it, the SGA is a service organization. "The SGA is a service organization to students. But we
must also seem like a service organization to the institution. The SGA has to say to the faculty and administration,
‘We work with you for the students,’” he says.

Buford tried to establish momentum by being knowledgeable about the issues and proposals he supported and doing a thorough job.
“If you are going to go before the Board of Trustees or the administration, you have to have done your
homework. That is how you build credibility and get things done.”

So what were his faults? “I talk too much,” he laughs.

Clair Freeman has also been, according to others, very successful as Vice President. "She has been successful because she is
good at dealing with people individually and listening,” says Burnett. “She is different from Warren, but they work well together.
Clair is a lot more understated than Warren is. A lot of times she will do things that are more
behind the scenes. She is involved in the smaller tasks that are important but don’t get as much attention.”

Commons this semester.

HAVE IT YOUR WAY

Disco Dan excitedly cuts his deluxe pizza. Top-Your-Own Pizza is the latest alternative to the now-extinct Alternative Bar. Other changes
greeted students upon their return to the Anna Fenton-Hathaway.

Classes from page 1

Science majors must take one seminar in political science. Still, Kazee cautions, “Most students aren’t taking [seminars] for [the major]...
It may be that we have a generation of students who are increasingly aware of the political activity going on
around them.”

One way to account for the demand in courses might be a simple matter of logistics, since there may be
more students on campus than there were in the fall. According to Carolyn Ortmayer, who coordinates study abroad, the 1996-97
academic year follows a recent trend. “Until three years ago, there were more students off-campus in the Spring than in
the fall,” she says. “Now it’s flip-flopped.”

Mrs. Ortmayer adds that students can be off-campus for a number of different reasons, but that most students away from
Davidson are participating in study abroad programs. “A lot of factors enter into [changes in the on-campus student population],” she
says.

However the demand can be explained, department chairs and the Registrar’s Office must accommodate it. For the long term, Kazee
offers a few possible solutions. “One way of dealing with it is to have more people teaching,” he says, an
option he dismisses as unrealistic. Another solution would be to offer more seminars. But the problem with that option, Kazee
says, is that for every additional seminar offered, fewer regular classes can be scheduled. “We’re concerned because we don’t want
to dilute the experience for everyone.”

Attention Sophomores and Juniors

Duke Endowment internships available this summer for two students from Davidson to work in the Charlotte area in one of
the Duke Endowment supported areas (health care, child care, rural churches, and higher education). To be eligible, you must be
available from June 8 - August 1, and have your own transportation. A full description of the internship and applications
are available in the Dean of Students Office.
