OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Eight years ago the world drastically changed with a symbolic fall of a graffiti-littered wall.
Fifty-two years ago America littered the Japanese countryside with the first use of nuclear warfare.
One hundred years ago the USA was just pulling out of a devastating four-year depression.

For those of us walking across the stage in three weeks, looking back at history hardly seems relevant, necessary, or
worth our energy. Most of our extra time is spent fantasizing about the prospects of the future, not looking back
at how far we’ve come (excluding all 1997 graduates unemployed after May 18 who don’t fantasize, but worry). Besides, we
barely even have enough motivation to finish those last journal entries, start research for that seminar paper, or open books
imperative for receiving a diploma. Why should we?

Ashley Gribble
The Senior Slump

How does a depression, long forgotten in the wake of the “Great” one of 1929, really have anything to do
with us? We take who we are and where we are now — for granted. A hundred years ago, most
teenagers never even imagined attending an institution like Davidson College. Back then, families barely survived during economic devastation. In 1897,
the last thing average eighteen-year-olds thought about was choosing between institutions of higher education. Oh, things have changed. Inflation. Computers.
Equal Rights. So much can happen in four years. But after Davidson’s abnormal four-year-plan, our large effort still seems unrepresented
on paper. We think we could have gone to a cheaper state school for a better academic batting average and
a more diverse experience. Beside the citizens of Charlotte who think “Wow. She must be smart,” when I drop the
Davidson name, no one even has a clue of Davidson’s caliber. I know it stands. Then why do I still
feel shock and miserable failure when I look at my resume, which excludes any GPA for protective purposes? How can
I explain to prospective employers that my “D” in Calculus is comparable to a “C+” at UNC and have them
keep a straight face?

Then there’s the job question. I can almost hear the universal “so what are you going to be doing next
year” in my sleep. It’s April, and I still fumble for a vague response. When I wait restlessly by the
phone hoping that my ONE interview will come through, I brood over stories of economics majors who have an inkling
of where they will be in August (and a five-digit salary to boot), while History majors like myself grapple with
the upcoming unknown. In those times, I feel like Davidson let me down. It’s so easy to feel like that.
However, I am walking across that stage in May with something most of my high school friends won’t see for
another year. But a piece of paper freeing my father from all financial ties to this school is the smallest
reward for sticking around. I’m not sitting out in the May sun for three hours for just a piece of
paper. My parents are not flying all the way from England for just an “early finish.” I will leave with
so much more than that. This is NOT Davidson Community College. My Davidson has given me a four-year challenge, a
promising future (although unseen at this point), and an unquenchable pride for what I will have accomplished. I tend to
forget that I took a chance on Davidson College. I didn’t transfer. Did you? So I sit here in Building
F anticipating the next three weeks with fear and sadness. That shows, at least, how much Davidson has done for
me, no matter what the numbers say.

We complain about the workload, the tuition, and the things we’ve missed out on. In fact, we just complain, period.
Our individual families have contributed almost a tenth of a million dollars to this institution. But when have we ever
stopped to think about how much WE owe Davidson College? Here we are, standing at the edge of the unknown,
the “Real World,” and yet all we can think about is ourselves. We desperately want to leave the extreme pressure
behind, no looking back. “I’ve given so much money and time to Davidson. I don’t owe it anything,” we say.
But we do. It’s not about jobs — or grad school. A Davidson mother answers her faltering offspring’s questions about
educational worth versus sanity with: “This is the only thing in your life that is ALL YOURS.” I would be
lying if I said that my roller-coaster college years haven’t left me queasy. Life at Davidson hasn’t been hopscotch simple.
But it’s the ride I got on, and I’m getting off in May standing on two feet. That’s so much
to be thankful for. Remember that when you hear from the annual fund.

Dave Kaul
I’m Just Stating My Opinion

Let me start off by saying that I was disgruntled by the way my article was taken by Kruse and
Bradshaw last week. Bradshaw failed to figure out our point. Allow me to reiterate it in simple terms. We were
not pleased with the way Marshall Tyler was portrayed in a baseball article two weeks ago. This was our opinion.
Bradshaw stated that he realized that “writing with indifference may be damaging to sports coverage here.” He said he was
not influenced by our thoughtless and angst-ridden articles. Rather, he was influenced by others who had approached him in more
“thoughtful” and less angry ways making him reconsider how the sports page is written. Is this another case of not
giving credit where credit is due, a reoccurring theme with the smug, unhappy Davidson sports writers?

I have in the past two weeks received several compliments about my “angry and bitching” article and have had several
people agree with me, not about Kruse’s article, but rather the sports writing in general. People don’t like the way
the sports section is written, whether it is coverage of their team or lack thereof. I’m not saying that I
can do better, just “stating the facts.” Kruse responded to the articles in a less than open-minded way. Rather than
taking our articles, which are opinions, as constructive criticism he chose to defend his instead. I would like to take
the defensive and rebut his rebuttal. First, you can’t compare the heroics of Jackie Robinson and the heroics of Marshall
Tyler. Secondly, it should not be about the “ability to play sports and the ability to write about them” but
rather, the ability to write about sports and to write about them well. By “well” I mean objectively (stating the
facts), but also covering all sports equally (not just men’s hoops) and appealing to one’s audience (Davidson Students). Third, if
Kruse really appreciates the time and effort athletes put into their sports, then why dogHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

them if they have a bad game or are in a slump? According to his self-description, he has not been
running an 8K on the cross country trails, practicing free throws, taking batting practice, or swimming a 2000 meter warm-up.
That was what I meant when I said time and effort. Finally, I am not asking for sentences like, “Despite
the Wildcats 12-1 loss to App. St., they still did good.” First, because it is not grammatically correct and secondly
it isn’t nice to patronize people. I am just suggesting that you think about to whom and for whom you
are writing. Will seems to think that being referred to as a “backup” goalie is not demeaning to Tyler. I’m
sure Bradshaw and Kruse and all others who devote countless hours and take pride in their work (whatever it may
be, a play, a sport, an article or virtually anything) would be offended when referred to as a backup. Even
though Tyler was a backup or not even offended, it is irrelevant and the same idea could be portrayed in
other ways. I think your response to my article could have been a little different also. A simple note from
the editor in the next issue stating that no harm or disrespect was meant. Or, you could have taken the
Tripp Franklin approach of leaving a 30-second voicemail explaining the same and we all could have gone home and gotten
some sleep. From this article, I would only hope that any writer for The Davidsonian would think about not only
what is true and relevant, but also the subject and audience of their article. This is only my opinion.

“And now the end is near, and so
