THE DAVIDSONIAN

GOODBYE, DR. K.

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Relaxing in the office that will be his for only a month longer, John Kuykendall reflects on personalities, change, regrets, and the move ahead.

What is running through your mind as your tenure comes to a close?

We are enjoying so many happy times. I wish we could spread them out. It’s like fast forward on your VCR, things move fairly rapidly and there is not much time to be reflective. There is a certain sense of things left undone, which is predictable. At the beginning of the year I made myself a list of things to get accomplished on behalf of my successor so that he or she would not have to cope with them. I guess I’ve taken care of about half of them — I'll probably have some unfinished business to pass to the next president.

So will you be teaching next year?

Not next year. I will be on sabbatical for the year, and be home for the Christmas holidays. Missy and I are hoping that we will be able to go with the Davidson alumni group to New Zealand and Australia next March, if that works out. Part of the time I will be working on a research project, and part of the time developing a new course to be taught the following year. And spend a little bit of time traveling. So we'll have a full year away from Davidson, and return in the late summer of 1998 and start teaching that fall.

Will it be strange to be a faculty member?

Not entirely. I have tried to teach one course a year, so I have kept my hand in, but it will be somewhat different because of the things that won’t be going on. Having taught for eleven years before I came here, I think I'll return to the routine fairly easily, but the other part is that I will not be involved in many things that have been part of life for thirteen years, so that will be strange.

What will you miss most?

Associates, folks throughout the college family. For instance, I will miss the kind guidance and support of [my assistant] Denise Howard in that office out there, and the wonderful way that she has helped me to do so much more than I could ever have done by myself. She takes incomprehensible manuscripts of speeches and turns them into things that sound a lot better than they did when they were spoken. She takes dictation which must be absolutely incoherent and makes it into a letter or report or whatever. Denise is the person with whom I worked most directly, but that sort of relationship is what I will miss most in a more general way. Ties to the trustees of the college, which I’m sure I still will have on a personal level; also with the alumni of the college, many of whom I have known before; then, of course, ties to colleagues on campus — faculty, and administration, and students — the relationships will continue, I know, but in a different way.

That leads into my next question — who have been some of your favorite personalities?

The very top of my list would be the people who have led the college as board chairs. Fred Stair, who was the Board Chair during the first few months I was here, was one of my heroes growing up. He was a very special person in my life, to whom I turned when I was making some vocational choices. And of course, Ben Craig. He was like my older brother, I felt as though I had known him all my life. I have never known anyone, as a friend, with whom I had such immediate rapport. We understood each other very well. Then, of course, Craig Wall. We were freshmen hallmates 42 years ago, and in touch with each other much of the time since then, in one way or another. He was a person whom I admired tremendously. He probably worked harder for Davidson than I did. He had that little notebook in his pocket, with twenty things going for Davidson all at once. I don’t think Craig ever was forgetful of Davidson. He was always on the job. He would be on that short list of very special people. It wouldn’t do to single out from among administrators and faculty and students any one more than others, but there are dozens of people with whom I have life-long relationships and I’ve been wonderfully supported by the administration of the college, those with whom I’ve worked most closely. You could just go down that list. The ones who are now here are representative of that great talent and commitment. Working together has been a very harmonious thing. And faculty members, because I have “from” the faculty and am not slow to say that I wish to return, have been really gracious in dealing with me. The faculty and administration are not supposed to see eye-to-eye on everything, but we have certainly kept the friendships that have undergirded the community and made it much stronger, I think. And students, the reason we are all here, have provided more satisfaction than anything else.

Going on to the new president — we asked you last year what qualities you would like to see in a new president, you said then that you want to see someone who loved Davidson as much as you do. A year later, is there one characteristic you feel you want to see in the new president, such as an alum, or a member of the Presbyterian Church? What are some of the most important qualities that the new president should have?

I think I would “stick to my story.” I think that the president must be someone who loves Davidson or learn very quickly to do so, and to love it for its distinctions, both strengths and just peculiarities. Beyond that, it will require a measure of enthusiasm which most people don’t have to bring to the jobs they do. You have to focus a lot on doing the job. Another thing that will be important: we have been through the years of abundance in terms of the sources in higher education in this last decade, and it has been wonderful to be here in a time that things are growing — buildings are going up, endowment is growing and all that — but it is self-evident in the nature of things that we have now come to a point of economic reassessment. And someone who knows and understands the things that have to do with how a complicated, very complicated, entity like the College operates economically and in terms of its resources will be important to Davidson. I’m not in any way saying that we have been spendthrifts or wasted resources; we haven’t. We've been very prudent with what we've had. But we have had an abundance relative to our circumstance that has not been typical in 160 years of Davidson’s existence and will not be typical in the next 160 years of Davidson’s existence. I don’t mean Davidson’s not in stable circumstances — we’re fine, we have sufficient resources to do everything we need to do, but it is to say that we are going to have to work hard doing it. This will be the responsibility of every one of us, under the leadership of the president. We don’t have to pinch pennies, but make dollars stretch and be willing to give up some things in order to undertake other things.Again, the knowing and loving Davidson is in part an acknowledgment and undergirding of the academic enterprise. The person needs to know almost intuitively what the teaching and learning process is and how we can best foster it. What do you see has changed the most in the last ten years? That’s an interesting question, and I have no real answer for it. In terms of students, what I see is a certain breadth. The word “diversity” gets hackneyed and I’m not sure I want to use it, but there is a breadth that is representative in terms of personal experience and a variety of talents. People always talk about how homogeneous we are, and in some respects we are, but if we magnified the variety that you see on the Davidson campus by a factor of ten, you would see a lot more visible diversity than you see here now. What happens is we have only one or two that represent this particular talent or interest or orientation. I do see more variety and more strength in more areas than I saw ten years ago. And that’s not to compare board scores or to say who’s smarter — that’s kind of a fruitless argument that I don’t think really leads anywhere, but the college has become more self-conscious about variety. On the other side of the ledger, the faculty and staff have become a bit more homegrown ... [the number has almost doubled], and that’s quite an interesting phenomenon to take place when you are in a market in which you have so many candidates for a job here. You’ve got a lot of possibilities here, but Davidson alumni are often the best of the lot. And the same thing is true in regard to administrative staff — I was doing an orientation for new trustees last Thursday and I showed them the table of organization for the college administration ... and as I looked through the list, I realized that nearly one third of them were Davidson alumni. And the neat thing now is that it’s not Davidson alumni meaning bald-headed 59-year-old men, it means young men and young women, people who are in various stages of their careers who have cast their lot with Davidson. And that homegrown talent is a continuing testimony to the character of the place.

SAMUEL SPENCER

No president, wrote the president of Allegheny College twenty-five years ago, “can serve this many clienteles—students, faculty, trustees, alumni, church, and local community—equally well... No president can be in command of all facets of his office...” Today the pressures are far greater and the job far more complex, but John Kuykendall has surmounted the difficulties and made his presidency a glowing success in a wonderful way. The problem of the multiple “clienteles” is ever present: while they all have things in common, each has legitimate special interests of its own, special interests that often conflict with one another. To reconcile these conflicting interests, to keep them in balance, requires the kind of understanding, judgment, firmness, and tact that John has so skillfully demonstrated in all his relationships. It is a rare president who reaches the end of his tenure in office with an outpouring of approval from all quarters and a genuine sadness that he is stepping down. During the past few years, I have helped a number of colleges search for new presidents. One of the first steps in the work of a search committee is to determine the qualities it wants in the person sought. Almost without exception, search committees begin by insisting on experience in fundraising as a sine qua non. John Kuykendall, who came to Davidson with little or no institutional fundraising experience, is living proof of the fallacy of such a requirement. It is the quality of leadership that is essential to raising money, not technical expertise in the field of development. Without John’s absolute commitment to the College, his inside-out knowledge of it, his ability to interpret its potentialities, and his skill in enlisting others for an enthusiastic team effort, the capital campaign would never have achieved its stunning result. When I joined in thanking Tom Baker for his great generosity, he said, “Well, John makes you want to give.” John could do that because of personal qualities that enable him to relate to people of all ages, backgrounds, and interests. A superb teacher and preacher, he has a pastor’s genuineness—and I know this as a recipient—in the profusion of personal notes that have gone out from the president’s office to members of all those multiple clienteles in recognition of birthdays, anniversaries, triumphs, and tragedies. In building and maintaining these personal relationships so important to the College, he has had an indispensable partner and ally in Missy. When the trustees appointed John, they indeed added a second invaluable asset.

A college like Davidson is a dynamic organism, always moving, always changing with succeeding student generations. No matter how spectacular its progress, there are always further needs ahead. Because the job can never be finished, a president inevitably leaves with a regretful consciousness of things incomplete, of things left undone. John will undoubtedly have some of those feelings. However, I know of no president anywhere who, in looking back, more genuinely deserves to enjoy the fruits of his labor of love for this college he has served so well.

How are you going to close your presidency? I’m going to clean up that desk! This is a point at which the personal and the vocational begin to blend in a way that is atypical in the last thirteen years. We have to deal with packing and moving, but I guess as I look at the weeks ahead I look at the big events in the college’s life, such as Baccalaureate and Commencement, and things that I have to be involved in, and then I look into the abyss, which is all those books, and all those shelves in the President’s house which have to be out of there by the first of July, and the piles of things that I have left unattended, thinking I’d get back to them. Right now we’re planning, at least provisionally, not to be here on the last day of my official tenure. We will have already left on vacation, not really for sentimental reasons but because there was something that we wanted to do that starts about three days before the first of July, and I thought it would be kind of neat to take the last three days off!

What kind of regrets do you have? Someone was asking me yesterday about time management, and my “philosophy” of time management. I honestly have none and I don’t think I do it very well. In one category of regret would be the inability to participate in a lot of things. Sometimes it is just not a possibility, because two or three things are happening at one time, especially at this time of year ... but I think I might have been a little more methodical in my approach to things. Other regrets are more philosophical in terms of that ideal Davidson that is in the mind of each of us, and the ways in which the actual falls short of the ideal. I expect that my successor will keep close to many of his or her ideals, and that is where I shall try to be of help.

BY MARY CLARE JALONICK