THE DAVIDSONIAN
Arts & LIVING <= TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

“Hay Fever” set for this week
By Carrie Morris
Arts & Living Editor

Get excited. We have a delightful piece of drama in our midst. Director Ann Marie Costa brings together nine of
Davidson’s most talented to produce “Hay Fever,” an illustrious romp through the world of comedy, by renowned dramatist Noel Coward.
The story is light, the energy high, and the talent overflowing.

“Hay Fever” stars Carrie Van Deest, Matthew Moretz, Vic Brand, Jess Robblee, Jen Spears, Ben Lukey, Trey Adams, Andra Whitt,
and Tamra Carhart. Set in the 1930s, the scene is London and the event is a small family gathering. Each
member of the family has brought along a guest. The story takes off from there to grow into a complex
and whimsical farce — dependent on good comic timing.

“‘Hay Fever’ is far and away one of the most difficult plays to perform that I have ever encountered,” Coward
himself has written of this play. “Its general effectiveness therefore depends upon expert technique from each and every member of
the cast.”

“Hay Fever” is running this week beginning Wednesday night through Sunday afternoon. Trusty advice says to get in on the
shows before Friday due to the imminent crowds for Parents’ Weekend. Tickets to the show are available in the Cunningham
box office from 2:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. weekdays for a mere $5.

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF THEATRE PRESENTS
Noel Coward’s HAY FEVER
A Light Zany Comedy
Directed by Ann Marie Costa
October 29, 30, 31 at 8 p.m.
November 1 at 8 p.m.
November 2 at 2 p.m.
Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Building
$6 General Admission
$4 Students and Senior Citizens
Box Office Opens: October 27 (2-5 p.m.; M-F)
Call 892-2340 for Reservations and Information

Liz Reid @ Jen Wilbur and Kurt Yusi, both contributors, get in the Halloween spirit by painting guys! We’ve gotten
a great response from the column we wrote last week. This time we’re going to discuss a less inflammatory topic
— alcohol.

First, however, we want to address a question we got regarding dental dams: Is it alright to use a hair
dryer on a cool setting when drying the latex? The answer to this, boys and girls, is a resounding yes!
Not only can dental dams be air-dried, but they can be dried with cool air. Don’t be stupid and use
a hot setting. Those magical squares of latex would melt.

Now, on to the topic of alcohol. Recently, it has been brought to our attention that many people are not
drinking responsibly. Everyone has heard the stories about the students at MIT and Louisiana State, and we want to help
ensure that Davidson doesn’t become known as the next school with an alcohol-related death. While we'd all be thrilled with
finally getting some recognition, we don’t want to become famous for the wrong reasons. We’re all smart kids, but there
are definitely some ways we can change our actions in the name of safety. We are here to help you
develop your alcohol savvy.

Now, we’re not going to sit here and preach to you about how bad drinking is for you and how
it is illegal to drink underage. Instead, we’re going to be realistic and simply encourage safer behavior. Everyone remembers the
obligatory hall dinner on First Night Down. Hall counselors take their vulnerable, helpless kiddies to numerous fine eating establishments in
hopes that they will carbo-load and gorge themselves on all-you-can-eat buffets. This wasn’t intended for hall bonding alone. This was
an attempt at prevention. Hall counselors care about the members of their halls, and they don’t want to see any
one of their underlings sweating and unresponsive while they wait for an ambulance. The simple fact is that drinking on
a full stomach is a lot safer and less detrimental than dry heaving.

Why is it that people insist on drinking themselves into oblivion, forgetting the entire night, busting their head on the
floor, passing out, or throwing up so much that it busts blood vessels in their eyes? Like everything in life,
moderation is the key. It is possible to maintain a buzz without downing an entire “fifth.” Is it really that
fun to drink so much that you feel like crap for the next 48 hours? If you throw up or
pass out, your body is sending you signals. Passing out is essentially the onlyHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Fool-proof method your body has of withholding you from further drinking and (possible) alcohol poisoning. However, if you pass out,
there is still a chance of it being “too late,” and you could slip into a coma. All issues have
two extreme ends, and this case is no different. Contrary to popular belief, it is possible to have a good
time without alcohol. For instance, you could go down to the Court and laugh at the drunkard taking off his
clothes or stumbling into closed glass doors. Here at Davidson, there seems to be something quite appealing about conformity. We
were all subjected to peer pressure in high school, but here it’s stronger and more effective than before. Don’t let
others influence your personal decisions. We all stand on our own two feet without anyone helping us, so why can’t
we make a simple decision about drinking without someone else’s opinions getting in the way? Have fun during your college
years, but don’t ever do it at the expense of your personal well-being. There are still several questions we have
concerning student alcohol use, for which we are currently pondering answers. If you have any thoughts on anything regarding this
topic, drop us a note using the address given at the end of this article. And, by the way, we
wouldn’t recommend using dental dams during intoxication. We would hate to hear of someone suffocating. That, too, would probably give
us a national reputation for all the wrong reasons.

~ Got bones to pick? Send any comments, questions, or concerns to: The Student Body, C/O Mitch Shores, P.O. Box
4180.

8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. But there will be no Krispy Kreme donuts on Tuesdays! In the 900 Room, Jumpin’ Java. How
absolutely trendy. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost. Yearbook pictures. If you didn't go last time, go this time. Or
just don’t go again. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. in the Morrison Room. Flying Karamazov Brothers. They are neither flying, nor Russian,
nor brothers. Discuss. 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. 21-Year-Old-Night. Drink ‘til you drop. Because you can. 10:00 p.m. in the
900 Room. “Carrie.” Not the Arts & Living Editor, but the movie. It's based on a Stephen King novel and
is therefore scary. 10:30 p.m. in Phi Hall. Yearbook pictures. You know the drill. Dress up, comb hair, brush teeth,
etc., etc. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. in the Morrison Room. Charlotte Symphony. Peter McCoppin conducts a splendid night of mostly-Mozart music.
8:00 p.m. at DCPC. Rocky Horror Picture Show. Bring your toast. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Semester in India,
Curry in a hurry. 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. “Hay Fever.” Not the affliction, but the play. 8:00 p.m.
at Hodson Hall. “Hay Fever.” Again. 8:00 p.m. at Parents’ Weekend. Get rid of all the beer bottles and cans
around the room, as well as any alcohol in the fridge. Also, hide the pot. Your parents are coming! A
day of secrecy and tight-lippedness. Cheap donuts. Keep on eating donuts. More! More! And for little dough. 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
in the 900 Room. Coffeehouse. This time, with Krispy Kreme donuts — therefore better than its feeble Tuesday counterparts. 8:15
a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room. Parents’ Weekend. They will still be here. All day, undoubtedly. Get them to take
you out to dinner. Fall Convocation. Important people get recognized for being important. 10:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. “Silence
of the Lambs.” 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Happy birthday, Kruse. It’s Halloween, but more importantly, it’s Kruse's birthday.
Hooray! The big 2-0 — he’s the young one. FAC. All that alcohol that was hidden and/or taken away because
the ‘rents were arriving — it ends up here. 4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Jackopierce. An evening concert
on the Court. “Hay Fever.” Yet again. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall. “Scream.” As in, you will. 11:55 p.m. in
the 900 Room. “Hay Fever.” You know what it is. Now go watch it already! 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall.
“Hay Fever.” 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall. Jumpin’ Java. Bring your mug. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost. Music event.
It’s music to your ears. 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. Kelly Joe Phelps. He dishes out some tunes. 10:00
p.m. in the 900 Room. Play. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall.
