~ 18 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

Swimmers post impressive second-place finishes at Emory
Men win seven of 10 relays, women take all 10
By Whit Hansen
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s swim teams both placed second Saturday at the season-opening Emory Invitational—a meet that included stiff opposition
in Georgia Tech, Tampa, and Emory. The men’s squad, led by Sam Kuykendall, a backstroker who swam the medley relay,
won seven out of the 10 relays in which it swam. Adam Kennedy, Freddy Schnell, and Matt West teamed to
win the 1500-meter relay, beating their nearest competitor by a wide 10-second margin.

The women won all 10 relays, paced by top performers Kathleen Paffenroth, Suzi Bozzone, Mary Shell Brosche, and Mary Noel
George. So why did both groups of Wildcats finish only second? Coach Rich DeSelm called his Emory counterpart before the
meet and suggested that diving be included. The decision was ultimately Emory’s, so when DeSelm never heard back from its
coach, he assumed diving would not be included. He assumed wrong. Diving was included, leaving Davidson short-handed from the get-go.
If only the swimming component had counted, the Wildcats would have won easily. Instead, with diving incorporated into the scoring,
both teams placed second, still a solid performance for their season debuts.

“Davidson tore everyone up,” rookie Matt Clifford said. The men lost to Georgia Tech, the women to Emory. The Wildcats
host Virginia Tech and William & Mary Saturday.

Freshmen play big role in defense
Henderson, Belser shining in rookie season
By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

After giving up 294 yards rushing to Emory & Henry five weeks ago, defensive coordinator Tripp Merritt told his troops
that they had to improve their rushing defense. The Wildcats’ defense, led by the surprising duo of freshmen Bo Henderson
and Freeman Belser, was listening. In the past three games, the Wildcats have given up a scant total of 163
yards on the ground—an average of an astoundingly low 54 rushing yards per game. Against Guilford Oct. 4 in Greensboro,
the Wildcats literally shut down the running game—and more—allowing an unheard-of minus-nine yards rushing. They also held Methodist, a team
that coming into last week’s game at Richardson Field was averaging over 160 yards rushing, to almost half that number.

One of the players making significant contributions is Henderson, a rookie left end who went to Garinger High School in
Charlotte. Henderson already has 45 tackles this season, second on the team only to defensive star Shreve Ariail who is
on pace to have over 100 tackles by season’s end. Henderson, at 5-foot-11 and 185 pounds, also has two sacks
and a total of five tackles for a loss. Last weekend in Davidson’s Homecoming clash with the undefeated Monarchs, he
recovered a fumble. Saturday against Randolph-Macon, Henderson contributed eight tackles, including two behind the line of scrimmage. He also added
his third sack on the season.

“The other guys have really helped me out this season,” Henderson said in an interview last week. “They have really
pushed me, and I think it has a lot to do with my success and my growth as a football
player.”

Belser, a product of Heathwood Hall in Columbia, S.C., has also stepped out of the typical freshman mold to do
his part anchoring the Wildcats’ defense. The 6-3, 180-pound outside linebacker is tied with Chad Wright for third on the
team with 36 tackles, and has two sacks on the year. He also had an interception against Guilford. This weekend
versus the powerful Yellow Jackets, Belser made 10 tackles—second on the team only to Ariail’s dozen—and had a key interception
late in the game.

“Coming into this year, I really had no idea what I was getting myself into,” Belser said recently. “I just
told myself ‘College football, this is big time. Just try your hardest and see what happens.’ As the season has
progressed, I’ve gotten more and more playing time, and I really didn’t picture myself starting at this point.”

“These two guys have exceeded our expectations,” Merritt explained. “We've got enough depth on the team, but they have really
stepped up. The last two weeks, they have led the defense.”

In the remaining games, Henderson said he looks for one thing from the Wildcats: “Victories.” “I look for guys getting
out there giving it all they have, and hopefully finishing the season strong,” the rookie phenom said. “We are getting
meaner, and we just want to hit somebody.”

Randolph-Macon Sports Information
Randolph-Macon split end Francel Smith caught one touchdown pass Saturday at Day Field, teaming with quarterback Sidney Chappell to send
Davidson to its fifth consecutive defeat. Chappell threw for 362 yards and ran for a touchdown, as the Yellow Jackets
topped Davidson 22-15.

By Naresh Nagella
Associate Editor

The crew team spends most of its time working on its strokes, but the squad has made its biggest strides
in the last two weeks. Last week, at a meet in Marietta, Ohio, the women’s varsity and both the women’s
and men’s novice teams earned the club’s first-ever medals.

Next Week:
vs. Hampden-Sydney
1:30 at Richardson Field
Coach: Phil Culicerto
Current Record: 0-6
Last Meeting: November 2, 1996—Davidson, 24-21 (at Hampden-Sydney, Va.)
Players to Watch: Walt Bondurant (Jr., QB, 6-0, 178), Dorion Baker (Jr., RB, 5-9, 181), Jason Raper (Sr.,WR, 6-0, 190),
Tony Joyce (Jr., DB, 5-10, 170), Ryan Pitz (So., LB, 6-2, 180)

Notes: This is Phil Culicerto's first season as head coach of the Tigers...quarterback Walt Bondurant threw for 1,506 yards last
season, which ranks third all-time at Hampden-Sydney... Dorion Baker rushed for 637 yards and six touchdowns last year...the Tigers only
had one All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference first-team performer last season, and he graduated...both the offensive and defensive lines are each
only returning one starter from last season... Tony Joyce had a team-leading five interceptions last season.

Jack Morse Davidson 00 15 O—15
Randolph-Macon 77 0 8—22

First quarter
RMC — Michael Hurt 4 run (Kevin Cherun kick), 7:40

Second quarter
RMC — Francel Smith 16 pass from Sidney Chappell (Cherun kick), 5:56

Third quarter
DC — FG Brian Langley 28, 7:40
DC — Shaun Tyrance 2 run (pass failed), 4:41
DC — Corey Crawford 7 pass from Tyrance (run failed), 1:08

Fourth quarter
RMC — Chappell 1 run (Sean Eaton pass from Chappell), 0:35

RMC DC
First downs 20 25
Rushes-Yards 39-232 30-105
Passing yards 195 362
Return yards 56 85
Comp-Att-Int 19-41-2 31-53-3
Sacked-Yards lost 3-14 3-15
Punts 4-156 5-143
Fumbles-Lost 3-1 2-0
Penalties-Yards 2-15 8-58
Time of Possession 28:53 31:07

Individual Statistics
RUSHING — Davidson: Tyrance 10-108, Ferguson 12-64, Hagerman 3-22, Strader 6-20, Moll 3-6, Kern 5-12. Randolph-Macon: Chappell 20-56, Hurt 10-49.
PASSING — Davidson: Tyrance 15-35-1 165, Strader 3-5-0 30, Moll 0-1-0 0. Randolph-Macon: Chappell 31-53-3 362
RECEIVING — Davidson: Sapp 6-77, Crawford 5-40, Jones 4-52, Ferguson 1-16, Kern 1-6, Hagerman 1-4. Randolph-Macon: Becker 8-101, Hurt 6-101,
Smith 6-70, Eaton 6-57, LaBelle 5-33.

CLUB SPORTS

Crew team earns medals, reaches milestones

“We also have full-time coaches this year, who are really dedicated and put in a big effort.”

“I am happy the team is winning now,” said senior Derrick Miller, who has done crew for two years. “We're
the most competitive we’ve ever been. Before, we only used to beat Alabama. Now it seems we can consistently place
in most races. We just keep getting better.”

The crew team has one of the more vigorous — if not the strangest — practice schedules, waking up for
5:30 practices three days a week. It is the only time of the week that everyone is free, there is
no traffic on the lake, and there is no wind. Practices consist of stretches and exercises, but the team also
spends considerable time on the lake training for three-mile races. The team also has more individual evening practices at which
team members work on a rowing machine, performing mandatory “ergs.”

“Most of the team spends 20 or so hours a week in practice,” Miller estimated. That number is close to
the limit the NCAA places on intercollegiate athletic teams, but the crew team still has club status.

“We want to become a full sport, but the school wants to monitor our progress for a couple of years,”
Jackson explained. “Hopefully, after we get that designation, we can get better equipment and recruit from high schools.”

The team has just purchased an eight-man shell, and will use it in its remaining races. And thanks to an
enthusiastic and committed group of freshmen, the team’s roster has jumped from 10 members last year to 40 this fall.

“The attitudes and abilities of the freshman class have truly added a new dimension to Davidson crew,” Moore said.

Despite their status, the team rows in most major meets, having twice competed in the prestigious Head of the Charles
regatta in Boston. As for this semester, the team will row at one more meet in Augusta, Ga., where all
40 members of the team will race. Three competitions are also planned for the spring.

Sarah Muffleman, Allison Moore, Julia Chemotti, Kelly Westbrook, and Catherine O’Dell of the crew team raced last weekend on the
Muskingum River. Courtesy of the crew team

“I am very proud of the whole team,” team president Allison Moore said. “Witnessing the evolution of the team and
seeing the rewards reaped by early morning and weekend practices makes my involvement in the team very fulfilling.”

At a recent race in Knoxville, Tenn., the women’s novice boat — featuring Daisy Patterson, Emilia Fuller, Emily Clark, and
coxswain Jason Todd — finished sixth out of 24 boats, recording a time of 20:11. The winning boat's time was
18:10. The men’s novice team — Beth Dedrick, John Dickens, Jeff Carson, Ragy Ragheb, and John Adler — finished sixth
out of 20 boats in the Knoxville race and second in the Marietta race, while the second men’s novice boat
— Christine Larned at coxswain, Eric Salo, Chad Diamond, Will Fortune, and Harrison Higgins — placed seventh out of 17
boats.

The women’s varsity members, Sara Muffelman, Kelly Westbrook, Moore, Catherine O'Dell, and Julie Chemotti, also performed well, finishing eighth out
of 20 boats in last weekend’s race and second in the previous contest. The team also fields a men’s varsity
boat consisting of David Jackson, Derrick Miller, John Potter, and Liz Neiheisel as coxswain.

Jackson is happy about how far crew has come in just three years. “We did not even know if we
would have any boats the first year,” he explained. “Then we got two very used boats for $5,000. A good
new boat costs upwards of $20,000. Finally, we had a core of committed people get together, and with a vigorous
practice schedule and hard work, I think we have come pretty far.”
