Buster’s take on old age

First off, I just want to tell y’all that the Vamonos Van will be running 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. this Thursday to Saturday. If you are van-certified and would like to be a volunteer driver, receive one of the V.V. T-shirts (check last month’s covers of Elle or GQ), and ride free for the whole semester, give me a call (x6633). There will be a lot of flyers up advertising the van, but if you miss those, it leaves every hour on the hour from the front of Rich by Belk parking lot. I hope that you and your friends and all will take advantage of this opportunity.

The other part of my column is opinion. I know that everyone wants me to tell you about the Vamonos Van, but I have something to say about rites of passage initiated by parents. I guess when you’re little and your parents give you your first little toilet, that is sort of a rite of passage. At age three or so, you’re responsible enough to use a toilet, and even if you don’t realize it at that age, it’s pretty exciting to have your very own toilet. I don’t have mine anymore, but two of my roommates do under their beds.

After the toilet thing, in your teens, the mothers and the daughters go through the big what’s-going-to-happen-every-month thing, and fathers probably show their sons what a condom is and all that. All this maybe happens around the ages of 13 to 18. I was pretty excited when I went through puberty this past June, and my dad told me about the birds and the bears. And then today, I went home to pick up a microwave that Santa’s helpers had made last Christmas from wood, snow, reindeer hair, and other natural resources.

Today was another rite of passage. This one was really terrible. My family and I had talked a bit about it this summer. My father said that “it’s kinda like you’re dyin’, son,” cackling because his head’s so bushy that some cultures would use his hair to make microwaves. With all that, though, I didn’t think that my mother would really go ahead and acknowledge it. The deal is, I seem to be having a receding hairline, and so when I went home today, it wasn’t a toilet seat or condoms or anything fun to chew on, but ROGAINE!!! I don’t know what you think about this, but this ain’t the kinda thing I want to be thinking about at 21. And then when your mother goes out and buys you not one but two bottles of this stuff that’s Hair Club for Men in a Bottle, it shakes you up a bit. It’s just not right. I’m not cracking on bald men or balding men or anything like that. I’m just saying that being given Rogaine is not the kind of rite of passage that I want to go through. Guess that’s how it goes though. They’ll probably give me a cane for Christmas.

Princess Diana: Mourning a mystique

Learning of Princess Diana’s death, the world awoke Sunday to a collective loss. Some knew of the paparazzi-induced car crash the night before; we thought we knew her until her absence made us realize just how misguided we were. She did not know us, and we only knew her image. We mourn the loss of a mystique.

News of her critical condition spread through Davidson’s campus Saturday night, but few considered her death a possibility at the time. Later that night I sat before CNN deciphering the unimaginable, sick with the knowledge that those still unaware of her death inhabited a different reality than my own. But what actually changes when a public figure dies? People move on. Yet something is gone with Princess Diana’s death. We are affected by our assumed familiarity. We thought we knew her until her absence made us realize just how misguided we were. She did not know us, and we only knew her image. We mourn the loss of a mystique.

Princess Diana used the media’s role in creating this mystique to her advantage. As the most beloved member of Britain’s royal family, her interviews and photographs only strengthened public sympathy for her during the estrangement and separation from Prince Charles. Diana was the human face of a public divorce. But photographs also recorded her compassion and dedication to the unfortunate. One Londoner interviewed by CNN recollected her most powerful image of Diana: The princess holding the hand of a hospitalized AIDS patient before any other public figure dared to do so.

We have also seen Princess Diana’s devotion to motherhood. She fought for a divorce settlement guaranteeing her relationship with Princes William and Harry. Some will most remember her determination to provide the only moments of normalcy in her sons’ public lives. I went to sleep last night hoping something might change by morning but instead awoke to more news and coverage because nothing had. Princess Diana is dead. In losing one person, we have all lost everything she meant to each of us.

Cracking the code

Congratulations on completing the first week of school! Each year the first week of school is filled with many obstacles, from drop/add to fights with former roommates over once-shared furniture in storage. This year, a new obstacle has risen before us. If you have not noticed, two gates have been constructed on campus to block traffic, one next to Duke and the other next to Little. Not only is this inconvenient, as we cannot drive through campus (for emergencies only, of course), it also creates a possible fire hazard and is a general insult to students. For these reasons and others, we must act quickly: We must find the code, for our very lives may be at stake! By banding together we can do it!

Here’s the plan: each gate is controlled by a code panel. The code panel is arranged just like a touch-tone phone display, having the digits zero through nine plus the star and pound signs all arranged in rows of three. The code could consist of any amount of the panel’s keys in any combination. Opening the gate could be as simple as pressing the pound key, but we must prepare for the worst. The code could consist of all the panel’s keys.Twelve keys. If no keys are repeated in the code, the number of possible combinations is 12! (twelve factorial) or 479,001,600 (Hey, I didn’t barely pass calculus for nothing!). But, as we must account for the possible repetition of keys, the possible combinations are 12^12, or 8,916,100,448,256 (8.9 trillion). With the help of every student on campus, we can do it. If we divide it equally, each of us only has to enter 5,507,165,193.5 (5.5 billion) combinations. Let’s assume it will take, at most, ten seconds to enter each combination. If it takes ten seconds to enter each combination and we do not count leap years, that’s only about 245,000 years per person. If we are lucky, we will hit the right combination in the first billion tries or so, so our mission won’t affect our grades or the grades of the 9,784 generations of our descendants who will have to attend Davidson and continue the fight if the right combination is the very last one we try. All this assumes that the same code works for the gate in front of Little, that the code is twelve keys or less, and that the keepers of the gate will not change the code during our operation. All these are possible complications. How smart is our enemy? We cannot be sure. So we should be prepared to increase our efforts many times over. It will take longer, but through our Wildcat spirit and determination, we will succeed! By cracking the code, not only will we be avenging ourselves of this infringement on our freedom by the administration, but we will come together as a student body, united and ready for any adversity—a force to be reckoned with!

Of course, if this idea does not work, all is not lost. There is another unifying force on campus, the College Union! Its purpose is to bring all of us together (unlike the code). The unifying events this week are the Childhood Film Festival (six movies in all!), Coffeehouse, Jumpin’ Java, a Women’s Issues Reception, and, of course, the Fabulous 50s Dance. Check your Union Board calendar for times and locations. Have a great week, and I’ll see you at the Union!

I am a freshman. I will boldly and openly admit this to all who inquire, as I am proud to be a freshman in the Class of 2001 and especially glad to be among the feminine gender of that class. For you see, I have quickly come to recognize the many advantages of being a female freshman on this campus. Not only are there twelve more males than females in the Class of 2001, but an informal survey given by my hall (we asked around) showed that many men in this class are single and ready to mingle.

And not to gloat in my own realm of satisfaction, but I have yet another piece of vitally important news: I am a Cannon girl. I am one of those mysterious girls who cohabitate with others of their kind on the upper levels of the final female dormitory on Davidson’s campus. I do not dismiss the equal advantages of Watts, Akers, Irwin, Knox, Little, or Sentelle, but honestly, we are known for our rooms. And in each room, one will find yet another example of cutting-edge interior design, utilizing the various nooks and crannies, lofts, storage space, and of course, under-bed storage. To prove my point: last week’s Davidsonian article about initial freshman impressions quoted David Farnum, for better or for worse, as having extended the offer “to give sexual favors” for a swap from his plush first-floor Belk residence to a larger, more spacious room. That really says it all.

Secondly, there’s something freeing about running up and down the hall in your underwear or towel or pajamas. Unfortunately, the third reward of this arrangement makes it impossible to relish this one. It appears that single-sex dorms have a certain lure about them. Let us call him Joe Freshman, who has spent a considerable amount of time on our hall. I don’t just mean he walks through and says hello now and again. He lives on our hall. Though he claims to be a resident of 2nd Richardson, many of my hallmates, including myself, have considered checking with RLO about his actual status as a student of Davidson College. He’s there in the morning after class, in the afternoon after lunch, both before and after the evening meal, and well into the night. He has even been spotted sleeping in one of the rooms. We did, in fact, have to inform him that he could not attend our hall programs, and we’re starting to wonder if we should post visiting hours. He is an honorary 3rd Cannon “gal.” Some believe he’s in love with several individuals on our hall, while others think he just plain enjoys the spacious rooms. The fact is, Cannon attracts guys. I don’t know why, but I’m not fighting it. And for all interested parties, we look forward to meeting you.

Regardless, I look forward to my years ahead at Davidson, whether it be in Cannon or another abode. And maybe someday, I’ll be brave enough to creep through the halls of those scary co-ed dorms—when everyone’s not at lunch.