THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Phonathon: alums, parents dig deep

By BETH BACON
Copy Editor

The annual SGA Phonathon was held in Chambers Gallery on April 6-10. Volunteer student callers solicited alumni, parents, and friends
of the College to raise support for Davidson’s annual operating budget to the tune of $63,326. Funds raised help pay
for student scholarship aid, furniture for the dorms, athletic equipment, electric bills, faculty compensation, and more.

The Phonathon is structured to create competition among the houses of Patterson Court and independents. Besides the satisfaction of helping
maintain the excellent quality of a Davidson education, the houses that raise the most money and generate the most participation
receive cash prizes.

Members of Kappa Sig showed a lot of house and school spirit this year, as 42 members volunteered to make
calls. In respect to the size of their houses, SAE and Fiji also showed a lot of support with 18
and 14 members participating. Warner Hall raised the most money this year: $6845. Sig Ep was second with $4995, and
Rusk was a close third with $4980. Overall, callers raised $63,326 towards the maintenance of the College.

“Many thanks to all the house chairs for a job well done. Their hard work paid off and is evident
in our results,” says Mary Tucker, Assistant Director of the Annual Fund.

SGA President and Junior Class Phonathon Chair Buster Burk says, “I think the Phonathon rocked the nation. It was well
organized, but I wish there was more participation. Overall, I think it went well.”

Phonathon chairs had a great time and were pleased with student effort, but they encourage more student support in the
future, as the turnout was not as great as it previously has been.

Former SGA President and Senior Class Chair Warren Buford has been involved with the Phonathon for several years. “I thought
the Phonathon went well this year. I was really encouraged by the people who did come, but I hope that
students will do more in the future, because it’s something that’s really important to Davidson. It was lots of fun,
and I was happy to be involved in it.”

Lucia Plosser, Senior Class Phonathon Chair agrees. She says, “In the beginning we were a little nervous because not that
many people were showing up. It was right after Spring Frolics, and it probably wasn’t the best timing, but the
people who were there did a great job. It was all a lot of fun.”

Foster Haselden, Freshman Class President and Phonathon Chair was excited about his first Phonathon experience. “I had a really good
time at the Phonathon. The more people that showed up, the more fun it was. The first night I had
a blast with Rusk, Kappa Sig, and Fiji because there were so many people there and everybody was into it.
Coach Fagg was at his peak. It was just a good time, but I had fun the whole time,” he
says.

The Annual Fund staff was pleased with the students’ participation and dedication. “The S.G.A. Phonathon remains at the heart of
our Annual Fund effort every year. I am always impressed by the dedication the Davidson students make to our cause
to raise $3.8 million,” says Lanier Brown ‘82, director of the Annual Fund.

Associate Director Carolyn Sherrill Fuller ‘92 says, “The students make the Phonathon! Their excitement and enthusiasm is contagious and reaffirms
why we do the kind of work we do.”

NORTH CAROLINA LAW SCHOOL INFORMATION FORUM

Is Law School in your future? If yes, come and meet admissions officers and pre-law advisors; learn about legal education,
admissions, financial aid, minorities in law and more on SATURDAY, APRIL 26, 1997, 12:30 p.m. at the NORTH CAROLINA BAR
CENTER, CARY, NC. Sponsored by Duke University, University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill and Wake Forest University Schools of
Law.

For additional information, contact Stacy Rusak at (919) 613-7022 or rusak@law.duke.edu.

Directions: Take Interstate 40E or Interstate 40W to Exit #287 - Harrison Avenue. Turn onto Harrison Avenue and follow toward
Cary. Turn right onto Weston Parkway and follow for approximately 1.5 miles. The North Carolina Bar Center will be on
your right.

MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1997

Bill Giduz - now, there was nopublic listing

On Saturday, a memorial was dedicated to the 159 Davidson students and alumni who gave their lives during World War
II. The Classes of 1944, 1945, 1946, and 1947 conceived and funded the granite monument. Due to mandatory ROTC membership
on campus, Davidson men joined the Navy and Air Force as well as the infantry. Many went directly into the
infantry as second lieutenants, who suffered the highest attrition rate in the war. “That war had such an impact on
this school. Before, all the names of the men who died during World War II. 159 is an awful lot
of people,” says Director of Reunion Giving Brian Tarr. The stone was cut and polished by the James Burnette Quarry
in Elberton, Georgia.

Mill will soon bustle, but will students be part of the crowd?
By Mary Care JALONICK
Editor Emerita

The old Davidson Mill on Watson Street has long stood dilapidated and unoccupied. Come September, however, it will become a
new center of activity in Davidson. The new development will be called “Davidson Village,” and will include offices, condominiums, retail
stores, and a restaurant. Construction will begin this summer, and residents are scheduled to move in this September. “It’s about
70% rented,” says realtor Jim Ridle, who is in charge of the project. So far, the Cotton Mill is scheduled
to house a furniture store, art gallery, and medical offices. Ridle is currently negotiating with a group that wants to
turn one part of the Mill into a brewery. Even if that does not work out, he says, there will
definitely be a restaurant. “The old tin building that used to be a staging area for cotton will be moved
to sit along the tracks,” he says. “We are trying to save the interior look.” The inside of this building,
though filled with trash, is constructed with high ceilings and open beaming. The apartment/condos, described in the Mill’s promotional materials
as “newly constructed villas that will be home to a fortunate few,” are clearly targeted at the financially stable—they begin
around $130,000.

Down in the Town
Ridle says he expects most occupants to be retirees who want to move into the area. A press release says
that in the condos, named the Linden Court Villas, “floor to ceiling will gleam.... The interior, gracefully combining modern amenities
with the ageless beauty of yesteryear, will be adapted to the individual requirements of each tenant. Configuration and size of
every area will harmonize perfectly with the mood of the space.” Ridle sees the area as an extension of downtown
Davidson. Developers will construct a brick walkway from Griffith Street to serve as a continuation of Main Street. The Town
of Davidson will pave the dirt road behind the Mill (the road separates the Mill and Career Services, Financial Aid,
and Admissions buildings). The wooded area along that road will be made into a parking lot. “Davidson is promoting itself
as a safe place,” he says, “where you don’t have to get in your car and drive. We want it
to be like the old days, where everyone knew their neighbors.”

Neighbors of the Davidson Mill, however, are mostly older Davidson residents who will not necessarily match the buyer profile of
the Linden Court Villas. Ridle says that developers are trying to change that. “All of the houses in this area
are becoming very valuable,” he says. “When any of them goes on sale, developers are snatching them up. The problem
with Davidson is there is no place [to develop]. If you went into downtown and tore down a building, then
God would strike you down.” When asked if there are any businesses other than the brewery that students would frequent,
Ridle seems unsure. The building still has units to sell, but so far most units are offices or specialty stores.
“All of the developers are Davidson residents,” he says. “We are trying to make this as much of a mixed-use
[area] as possible.”

What power?!?
Write for News

Europe $169 OW, Mexico / Caribbean $189 RT, & World Wide Destinations Cheap!! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START
YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE. Contact Air-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000, info@aerotech.com, http://campus.nevV/acrotech
