THE DAVIDSONIAN _OPINIONS, MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

It’s been said that art imitates life and that life imitates art. As far as I can tell, these are
both pretty much true. A more far-reaching and universal truth of the human condition often goes unstated: idiots imitate idiots,
boneheads imitate boneheads, and the banal imitate the banal. Now you might be saying that I’m rude for saying this,
but we all know it’s true. Consider bell bottoms, polyester, wearing a white glove on one hand, “Where’s the beef?”,
jackets covered in zippers, parachute pants, super-fat shoelaces (untied, of course), Dungeons & Dragons, glam rock, grunge, “Whoomp, there it
is,” Joe Camel, suburban body piercing, Top 40 music, No Fear, and the popularity of Beast Lite when Stroh’s is
roughly the same price and a far superior brew. Anybody who’s ever seen two dozen pledges—or any clique, including groups
of independents—wearing their hats sideways or saying the same dumb phrase over and over or any other dumb stuff just
because one of them started doing it can testify to this truth.

Another example is the great masses who converge on video stores to get the hot movie of the week. I
worked in a video store for a couple of years, and I can’t tell you how many times I’d have
some dumb customer asking me, “Do you have anything good?” or “What’s really popular right now? Are there any copies
in?” Hell, when you go to a video store and find that every last copy of The Glimmer Man and
Tales From the Crypt: Bordello of Blood is checked out strictly because they’re new, you’ll agree with me for sure.

Of course, I’m not immune to this syndrome, and aside from body piercing, grunge, No Fear, and the foolish decision
to guzzle Beast Lite instead of Stroh’s, I’ve pretty much done everything mentioned above. I’m sure that you’re familiar with
all of these too, so don’t try to act like you haven’t succumbed.

Now if you think about some of the events on campus lately, I’m sure that you’ll find quite a few
instances. Just in case you’re not too perceptive, let me give you some examples. I spent 1994 at the University
of Tennessee and had plenty of Tri Delt and A-D-Pi friends. Watching them practicing being cool so they’d be accepted
by the sisters and then, once they were accepted, running around saying, “Delta Delta Delta,” always put a snide grin
on my face. And that’s all I have to say about that.

Another wonderful example of trendiness and banality is the second annual battle for IVCF’s charter. As far as I’m concerned,
all parties involved—except for the Dean of Students office and some other school officials—are guilty as charged of playing follow
the leader. Now I won’t get into the intricacies of what it means to be a fundamentalist, but it takes
quite a bit of willpower to accept blindly what you’re taught, regardless of the fact that biblical literalism doesn’t make
too much sense. Just trust me on this one—I’ve been there, and being in the position of buying into a
worldview that seems blind and illogical but claims absolute truth is a pain in the ass. Needless to say, I’ve
tossed this view out in bits and pieces over the course of the past few years.

The other side of the coin is just as blind and banal; however. When you have a student government that
is willing to throw religious freedom into the pisser because it means recognizing unpopular and unattractive beliefs as true religious
ideals and not hatred, there’s a pretty serious case of the imitation principle going on. When you have more than
a couple of SGAers saying, “Yes, I know about religious liberty, but I disagree with their beliefs, and so do
plenty of other people, so they must be invalid, and if religious beliefs are invalid, we don’t have to recognize
them as legitimate religious beliefs,” guess what syndrome you’re witnessing.

Of course, the most heartbreaking aspect of the debate was what it revealed about how skewed the priorities of SGA’s
older members are. The discussion lasted well into Twenty-One-Year-Old Night, and I didn’t see anybody leave the Conference Room to
join us—the few, the proud, the apathetic—in the 900 Room until the meeting was over.

Another banal brouhaha is centered around religious controversy. This year, there haven’t been too many arguments about them, but the
crosses and the strife that they inevitably cause is yet another shining example of people with too much time on
their hands imitating people with too much time on their hands. At Easter for the past three years, concerned campus
Christians have erected their crosses to reach out to the lost heathen among us. It has never really struck me
as a particularly loving or effective form of sharing one’s faith, which is problematic since Jesus claimed that loving your
neighbor is the most important principle of living. Every year, though, people erect the wooden monuments, and I suspect that
it has something to do with the fact that they have heard what a good idea it is by people
whose other brilliant claims to fame have included the angry declaration that evolution shouldn’t be taken so seriously.The statement "Veteran’s
Day should be observed since Martin Luther King’s birthday is observed and since veterans are a hell of a lot
more important than MLK," the cry that cheerleaders are our greatest resource and should be honored more, and an earth-shattering
essay stating that the racial problem in America is because MLK is dead, as opposed to the possibility that it
might be caused by hundreds of years of the oppression of one race by another. The people who protest the
crosses’ existence are just as dumb, though. Sure, the display is an eyesore, but saying that people have no right
to put it up makes about as much sense as saying that Huckleberry Finn should be banned because you don’t
like its language. There are also plenty of non-Davidson examples, such as the Heaven’s Gate morons’ mass suicide a couple
of weeks ago and the County Commission’s decision to stop funding the Arts and Science Council to stop the spread
of homosexuality in Charlotte. The decision was aptly made on April Fools’ Day. This week, take a good look around,
examine everything closely, and see how widespread my principle is. Hell, you might even find it in yourself; I know
I have.

Much about the college experience deals with learning about other cultures and figuring out the validity of stereotypes. However, as
Hindus on campus, we have learned that many misconceptions have arisen about our religious traditions. We would just like to
point out the essence of our religion from our perspective and aid those who wish to gain a more accurate
understanding of it.

- Deepa Kamath, Naresh Nagella, and Krupi Lakhani

The Truth about Hinduism

After worshipping God with form, the Hindu progresses to perceiving Him as formless. Third, many people find the prominent vegetarianism
practiced among Hindus to be strange. They wonder if it has a basis in the fact that Hindus believe “they
might be eating a relative or ancestor that reincarnated into the animal.” Many people also believe Hinduism is based on
“mythological” stories. For example, there are books in the library titled “Hindu Mythology.” These books characterize the two major Hindu
epics, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, as folk stories on par with Paul Bunyan or Johnny Appleseed. We consider these
stories to be historical events. If the story of Christ were portrayed in a similar manner, it would be considered
sacrilegious.

Overall, Hinduism is an inclusive religion. We believe in the existence of one God who is multifaceted and all-pervasive. Because
of His omnipresence, omnipotence, and omniscience, we worship numerous gods who represent these many qualities that would fall under that
original conception. For example, Brahma is the creator, Vishnu is the preserver, and Siva is the destroyer. In addition, numerous
other deities represent such traits and goals as knowledge, wealth, and good fortune. Yet our basic belief is that these
gods collectively symbolize one God.

Second, many people think Hindu idol worshipping to be primitive. However, the worship of idols is symbolic of the personal
relationship a Hindu devotee shares with God. Idols also serve as the object of contemplation in the initial stages of
meditative practice. This practice actually stems from the belief that God has a presence in everything and in all forms
of life. A divine respect is given to all creatures. To butcher them when it is unnecessary is viewed as
inappropriate. Mahatma Gandhi’s belief in non-violent resistance stemmed from this.

Along these lines, people misunderstand the respect Hindus give to cows. This special status is due in part to Krishna’s
affection for cows and in part to the role cows have played in the sustenance of Hindu societies. Quite simply,
they have provided milk, transportation, and fertilizer since the beginning of Indian society. They were an integral part and source
of life for communities, and that contribution is recognized by respecting them.

There is no mandate for devotees to convert others to it. Those who do not believe in it are not
believed to be condemned or doomed to a hellish fate. On the contrary, a good Hindu is taught to respect
other religions and even believe in the divinity of other messengers of God (like Christ, Mohammed, and Buddha). We hope
you have learned about some of the similarities and differences between Hinduism and the other major world religions. While the
topics we discussed in no way give a complete view of the religion, we do hope it informed people enough
to know the basics. We invite everyone to come to the religion forum tomorrow night at 7:00 in the Carolina
Inn and learn more about all the community religions on campus.

LIFE IN HELL
By Matt Groening

ALL RIGHT, WHICH ONE OF YOU DIDN’T TAKE YOUR PROZAC?

Write for Opinions

Only three more issues of The Davidsonian will be published this semester. If you haven’t written on what matters to
you, don’t miss your last chances! Articles should be written on Macintosh WordPerfect disks. Please submit articles no later than
Thursday for inclusion into the next issue. Promote “wholesome community standards” — write for Opinions.
