At Seven films offered true "blast from the past"

The success and significance of this year’s “Blast from the Past” Film Festival was something that needed to be seen
to be truly appreciated. Following this year’s first 900 Room feature, Shine, we were met with a film which resides
on the opposite end of the cinematic spectrum, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. This is the sort of film
that you might catch me watching at home with my kid sister on a lazy Saturday afternoon; this week, however,
it was in the company of sixty student Wonka fanatics Sunday night at the Outpost. Not only was this a
near-capacity crowd, but most of the audience was unafraid to laugh and sing along with the Oompa-Loompas, just as if
we were all eight-year-olds again. Thankfully, most of the audience cried along in mockery of Charlie Bucket’s mother’s “Cheer up,
Charlie” lullaby, a public admission that we would not be sucked in by the inherent cheesiness.

The most fascinating aspect of the film festival was that we are now older, more perceptive, and much more astute
than we were in the 80s, allowing us to pick up on a few of the more mature intricacies of
these children’s films. Most notable among these instances was when the computer engineer becomes rather irate with his golden ticket
locating device.

Computer: I won’t tell [where the remaining tickets are located.] That would be cheating.
Engineer: I am now telling the computer... that I will gladly share with it the grand prize.
Computer: What would a computer do with a lifetime supply of chocolate?
Engineer: [fuming] I am now telling the computer EXACTLY what it can do with a lifetime supply of chocolate!

This went way over my head when I was 10.

The next feature was Back to the Future on Monday night. After originally deciding not to watch this one because
I'd seen it more than a few times before, I was convinced to take a break from my studies and
see Marty McFly hit 88 MPH yet again. It was still a smart, funny, and inspiring movie which left everyone
humming Huey Lewis songs as the audience left the Outpost. The scene in which Biff runs his car into a
manure truck never gets old and was met with a jubilant viewer response. Plus, Marty saves the day on a
skateboard! Whatever happened to those?

Tuesday’s Outpost feature, Footloose, also played to an appreciative crowd. Kevin Bacon’s expression of surprise, “Jump back!” stuck out like
a sore thumb. Wednesday the venue shifted up the hill to the 900 Room for a double feature of Say
Anything and Weird Science, which played to more modest crowds. I had not seen Say Anything before, but it was
debatably the best movie of them all from a “feel-good” standpoint. John Cusack’s character makes it a modern classic. Weird
Science was allegedly “awful,” but that’s what makes it an 80s icon, right?Sixteen Candles showed Thursday night (would the event
have been complete without a Molly Ringwald movie?) followed by the grand finale, Ferris Bueller's Day Off on Friday night.
Ferris played to a 900 Room audience of about 150 people, nearly three times more than prior movies had garnered.
Not only were the movies fun in themselves, but half of them were free to attend. Each movie was also
followed by a small raffle for movie posters and various little toy things. The “kid films” series was very well-received
by the student body. Hopefully, it will become an annual tradition.

THOROSCOPE
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997
By Pat "Doomspay" SAJAK AND His Furry Woodland Animals

Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22)
There is a strong chance that you will be ripped limb from limb by horny, rabid African hippos. Best bet:
avoid the Zambezi river basin at all costs.

Libra (Sept. 23-Oct. 22)
Your lucky number is 1-800-444-CASH. Ask Mr. Cash and you shall receive. But be advised, your dorm room has very
little home equity.

Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21)
Hug bunnies. Love your fellow man. Try to ignore the fact that life is a hopeless downward spiral to a
painful, lonely death. Lucky psychological disorder: manic depression.

Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21)
Can you say prison sex? I hope you can, because you will go to jail, and your cellmate, Leroy, will
like you. A lot. You should have listened to the stars and hired the Unfrozen Caveman Lawyer.

Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19)
You will begin to use fake Davidson slang, such as "Chez Vail" and "the 'braire" in your everyday speech. Best
bet: take a semester off and don't come back until you can bitch about the workload in plain English like
the rest of us.

Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18)
You will experience a catastrophic world-wide economic depression. Best bet: hoard toilet paper and wait for the hyperinflation. Lucky tariff:
Hawley-Smoot Tariff.

Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20)
The stars refuse to tell me about you. This is likely a bad sign. Best bet: stay in bed, pull
the covers over your head, and hope with all your mortal soul that astrology really is fake.

Aries (March 21-April 19)
Your evil twin will assume your identity, ruin your credit rating, impregnate your girlfriend, and annihilate the population of Argentina.
The world will revile you for things not of your doing, and you will have no recourse but suicide.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)
You will be chosen as the puppet leader of a banana republic. You should try to rid yourself of any
moral opposition to the cocaine trade. Lucky America: Central.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)
Your dog will die. Lucky for you, there are plenty of unloved, living animals at the pound. Best bet: Get
a chia pet. Name him Earl.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)
You will finally get a chance to use those PE 101 skills! A Resusci-Annie doll sitting next to you at
Vail will choke on her Student Steak and owe her life to you.

Leo (July 23-Aug. 22)
Your girlfriend is an ethereal golden goddess. Little lion, be nice to your pussy cat this week, or while the
lion is away, the kitty will play.

We’re not news. We’re not sports. We’re not opinions. We’re everything else. Write for A & L. Call Wes (x
6383).
