TT U Ss Pp o& E S - 7 Ss ae P| A me all sports teams: A call to
arms

What is wrong with the fall sports teams? By First Night Down, the Wildcats had combined for a mere eight
wins. The football team is an exception. They have been stellar so far, but they don’t play ACC and SEC
competition. The soccer teams do, and they have been somewhat successful in the past. Just five years ago, the men
shocked the country by going to the Final Four. The women have won three consecutive conference titles and are —
or were — supposed to be even better this year. The field hockey team had dominated the Deep South conference
until last season, when the Wildcats slipped to 5-12. This year, they have been outscored 39-8, yet their three wins
are more than the total number of wins for both soccer teams. The volleyball team has the most wins with
four, but Lisa Marston’s squad is still sub-.500.

So what is it? Injuries? Inexperience? Bad luck? Maybe all three. Let’s take a closer look at the soccer teams.
So far, the women’s team has been the definition of unlucky in the injury department. They lost Kelly Schmidt within
the first 10 minutes of the season opener at South Carolina. When she finally returned against East Carolina, Amy Kanoff
got hurt while simply taking a shot on goal. It looked like her 30-yard blast midway through the first half
would give the women a convincing 2-0 lead. Instead, the ball hit the crossbar and Kanoff went down with a
hyper-extended knee. She left the game, her return date uncertain. The star-crossed Wildcats then gave up two late goals and
watched in shock as the Pirates stormed the field after the game.

The men have also lost key players to injuries. Drew Lindsey missed several early games, but returned for the tournament
in Greensboro. It’s a good thing, too, because Phil Julien injured his knee at the Citadel, forcing him to miss
the tourney at UNCG. Despite his absence, the Wildcats won in overtime against Miami of Ohio. They have stayed afloat
thanks to the performance of leading scorer Andrew Holbrook. He has scored as many goals as the entire women’s team
— and he didn’t even play varsity last year. In fact, coach Charlie Slagle typically starts some combination of eight
freshmen and sophomores because there are only three seniors on the entire squad.

Whatever the reason, soccer players, you’ve dug yourselves a hole. Men, you took a giant step in the right direction
by beating Furman. But neither of the schedules get any easier. Women, you still have to play national powers UNC
Greensboro and N.C. State, while the men have an October slate that features UNC, Duke, and Wake Forest. If either
of your teams aren’t healthy by then, things could get ugly — real ugly. It’s time to step up the
intensity. Get pumped. Leave your heart and soul at Richardson Field after every game. If you need inspiration, listen to
the Rocky theme song. Watch Rudy. Even better, watch Homeward Bound, the 1992 men’s soccer video. Do something to remedy
this increasingly dire situation. To put it bluntly, find a way to win, because the football team only plays on
Saturdays and basketball doesn’t start until November.

Wildcats dominate Sewanee in Centennial win

42 unanswered first-half points pave way to blowout

Will Bradshaw @ Lorenzo Moll is all alone as he races to his second touchdown of the day. The junior
tailback had two scoring runs of over 80 yards, as the Wildcats routed Sewanee 42-14 Saturday at Richardson Field.

Alumni return to celebrate Centennial

By JAY CANTRELL Sports Editor

The game was over by halftime, but none of the alumni even thought of leaving early. Dozens of former Davidson
football players and coaches were on hand for Saturday’s Centennial Game against Sewanee. The Wildcats put on a show for
them, winning the contest 42-14.

“They look wonderful,” said Turnley Todd, the offensive line coach of the famous 1969 team that went to the Tangerine
Bowl. “They’re very balanced. The quarterback (Tommy Dugan) throws the ball very nicely, and they have a great defense.”

Todd, who currently lives in Gloucester, Va., went on to become the assistant coach at Virginia for five years. After
that, he coached high school football until he retired four years ago. Some of his players also returned to Richardson
Field, including the Wildcats’ all-time leading passer Gordon Slade and offensive lineman Frank Rader, both of whom remember well the
glory days of Davidson football.

“We threw the ball a lot,” Slade said of the 1969 squad. “We had a lot of roll-outand drop-back passing
plays.”

“He was the Thad Busby (Florida State’s current quarterback) of college football back then,” Rader said of the man he
protected every Saturday. “He could have played for anybody.” In fact, Slade even played for the Baltimore Colts for half
a season after he graduated from Davidson. He now lives in Atlanta and works for See People on page 18.

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

If you’re Sewanee coach John Windham, what do you say to your Tigers at halftime? Try harder in the next
30 minutes? With a 42-point first-half outburst, the Wildcats — who scored 41 points in last week’s season-opening win over
Maryville, and are suddenly an offensive machine — virtually instantaneously took all potential suspense out of the Centennial Game and
eased their own heightened nerves due to the uncharacteristic hype surrounding the 100th-year celebration.

“There was a lot of pressure to win this game,” quarterback Tommy Dugan said. “I think this win is the
biggest win here in a long time. We wanted to win for all the alumni. Everybody came out and made
a good show for us, and we wanted to make a good show for them as well.”

The Wildcats amassed 468 yards of total offense — including 397 in the first half alone — and built a
four-touchdown lead 14 minutes into the game, breezing to a 42-14 win, despite a relatively listless second half. Sewanee, which
came in averaging a Division I-best 335 yards rushing per outing, dropped its first game of the season to fall
to 2-1.

“It’s very rare that you can have a game plan and have it work as well as it did today,”
coach Tim Landis said.

Tailback Lorenzo Moll, who at halftime had an absurd 180 yards on only five carries, led the Wildcat charge, posting
two touchdown runs of over 80 yards — an 85-yarder on Davidson’s first play from scrimmage not even two minutes
into the contest, and an 86-yarder 1:40 before halftime.

“I didn’t have to do anything,” Moll said. “It was just the offensive line. They gave great blocks. I had
to maybe juke one guy on the second run. I don’t think I’ve ever — in high school or anything
— had two (touchdown runs) over 80 yards.”

The Wildcats combined their quick-strike offensive capabilities and hard-hitting defense to blow the game wide open before many of the
fans — still trickling into the stadium after the pre-game festivities — had time to settle into the bleachers.

See Centennial on page 19.

ALSO INSIDE

Men’s soccer upsets rival Furman. The Wildcats captured their second win of the season in a stunning come-from-behind victory over
the 1996 Southern Conference champion Paladins. Game story, page 17.

Holbrook a blessing. Sophomore star scorer Andrew Holbrook of the men’s soccer team has come out of nowhere this year
to lead the Wildcats. Profile, page 17.

Field hockey triples win total in single week. Led by Erin Smith, the surging Wildcats topped Longwood and Ursinus this
week. Story, page 17.

Women’s soccer still stumbling. After losing a killer to East Carolina Wednesday at Richardson Field, the injury-ridden women played Appalachian
to a scoreless tie Sunday in Boone. ECU game story, page 17.

Football
Ohio 3, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 42, Sewanee 14

Men’s Soccer
Radford 2, Wildcats 1 (OT)
Wildcats 3, Furman 1

Women’s Soccer
East Carolina 2, Wildcats 1
Wildcats 0, Appalachian St. 0

Field Hockey
Wildcats 3, Longwood 2
Wildcats 3, Ursinus 2 (OT)

Volleyball
Wildcats 3, UNC Greensboro 2
Radford 3, Wildcats 0
Winthrop 3, Wildcats 2

Moll had two first-half touchdown runs of over 80 yards — an 85-yarder on the Wildcats’ first play from scrimmage
and an 86-yarder 1:40 before halftime — as the Wildcats dismantled Sewanee in the Centennial Game.

SCHEDULE

SCOREBOARD

DSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK
Football
Lorenzo Moll

Saturday @ Emory & Henry (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM, WSAT 1280 AM)

Football
Saturday @ Richmond (7:30 p.m.)

Men’s Soccer
Tomorrow @ UNC Charlotte (7:00 p.m.)
Saturday @ East Tennessee St. (4:00 p.m.)
Sunday @ UNC Asheville (2:00 p.m.)

Women’s Soccer
Thursday vs. Appalachian St. (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday vs. East Tennessee St. (2:00 p.m.)

Volleyball
Tomorrow vs. Appalachian St. (4:30 p.m.)

Field Hockey
Saturday @ Greensboro Invitational

DSS GAME OF THE WEEK
Football @ Emory & Henry
Saturday * Emory, Va. * 1:30 p.m.

In an effort to go 3-0 and run their win streak to six, the Wildcats must beat Emory & Henry
at Fullerton Field — a venue at which the powerful Wasps have won 28 straight. According to coach Tim Landis,
this game will be “our measuring stick to see how far we've come.”
