DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

the new spring

Specialty Shops on The Park, Charlotte
To receive our free apparel catalog, call 1-800-676-5373

Golf grabs fourth in Charleston tourney

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The golf team toils in relative obscurity, but a fourth-place finish in a 19-team tournament is tough to ignore.

And that’s exactly what the Wildcat golfers did Feb. 23-24 at the Charleston Southern Invitational in Charleston, S.C., finishing behind
only UNC-Wilmington, Stetson, and James Madison.

Co-captain Daniel Tedrick shot a team-best 147 in the two-day event, good for fourth place individually and only six strokes
behind tourney champion Greg Green of Georgia Southern.

Jason Carlock, the squad’s other captain, logged a tie for sixth place and shot a first round-best 70.

“This is the best team we’ve had in 20 years,” said Tedrick last week. “Finishing so well in a strong
field gives us good reason to be optimistic about winning a tournament this semester.”

But it didn’t happen in last week’s Citadel Invitational at Patriot’s Point in Mount Pleasant, S.C. A windy first day
of competition bothered Davidson, which ultimately placed 11th out of 15 teams.

The Wildcats were hit hard by the academic bug, as key golfers David Alexander and Jason Lina didn’t make the
trip due to classroom commitments.

But bolstered by an excellent five-man rotation including Tedrick, Carlock, Alexander, Lina, and Andy McDaniel, Davidson has gone from last-place
finishes to the top half of the Southern Conference.

Tedrick credits coach Joe Mark for the turnaround.

“A lot of this has to do with Coach Mark. Now we’re playing in strong tournaments and he’s really turned
the program around.”

The team returns to the links Thursday through Saturday at the East Carolina Classic in Greenville.

Chattanooga choo-choos into Sweet 16

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

CHARLOTTE — Chalk one up for the Southern Conference.

Actually, two.

League champion Chattanooga, which ended the Wildcats’ season in the conference semis two weeks ago, shocked the college basketball world
not once, but twice this weekend in the Southeast regionals, fittingly hosted by Davidson at the Charlotte Coliseum.

The 14th-seeded Mocs upset third-seeded Georgia on Friday and then sixth-seeded Illinois yesterday, becoming just the second 14-seed ever to
advance to the regional semifinals and the first Southern Conference school to do so since the tournament expanded to 64
teams.

“This can put us on the basketball map,” said Chattanooga coach Mack McCarthy, who quipped Thursday that he hoped Cinderella
wore Adidas, the Mocs’ choice of footwear.

“For our kids to have this kind of opportunity and for them to take advantage of it is just an
incredible success story,” McCarthy said.

Five Mocs hit double figures in a balanced attack. Willie Young led with 15, Johnny Taylor, Chris Mims, and Marquis
Collier had 12 each, and Wes Moore added 11.

Chattanooga faces Providence - led by God Shammgod and Austin Croshere - Friday in Birmingham, Ala.

“These guys have done two things this weekend that no one thought they could do,” said McCarthy. “Why not keep
it going?”

Brett Ialacci rifles a return during a match against Kentucky player this weekend. Davidson fell to the third-ranked Wildcats.
