SPO S 13 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Kruse’s Cubby

A voice from Johnson City

By MICHAEL Kruse
Sports Editor

Last week, as all loyal Cubby fans will remember, I wrote about the fine urban establishment of Johnson City, Tenn. And like I usually do in this space, I poked fun. So imagine my surprise when late on Monday night, upon my return from the men’s basketball team’s win over The Citadel in Charleston, S.C., I received a voicemail. The voice was clearly female and clearly perturbed. And the voice was from Johnson City.

“I happen to be from Johnson City, Tennessee,” it said, “and I just read your little article in the Davidsonian.”

“I don’t know where you get off criticizing the dome, the town, and the town’s people because that has nothing to do with the basketball you were actually there to report on.”

Sadly though, the voice failed to leave a name or number at which it could be contacted. Since the voice chose to remain anonymous, I was unable to call it back and discuss what it found offensive privately. Therefore, I have no choice but to offer my rebuttal publicly.

First of all, Voice, never end a sentence with a preposition. You’re a student at Davidson College. You should know that. Secondly, you’re right - I was there to report on basketball. And that report came in the game story right next to Cubby on the front page of Sports. Cubby, on the other hand, is not a report at all. A report is objective. Cubby is anything but. Cubby is my opinion and very little else. It represents my space in which to - within the bounds of journalistic integrity - write pretty much whatever I want. Hence the name, “Kruse’s Cubby.”

So where I get off criticizing the dome, the town, and the town’s people is really beside the point. I can get off wherever I want.

Thirdly, sending such a poignant message and then not taking proper credit for it by leaving something so simple as a name is truly a mental faux pas. Not only is it cowardly, but it is ripe Cubby fodder. It begs a petulant response such as this one rather than a reasonable conversation.

This has happened before. Voice is not the first to leave a nameless, faceless (and therefore, kind of meaningless) message of seething, fiery hate in my mailbox. In my mind, if an article in the Davidsonian — or any other paper, for that matter — offends me, I either (a) call the writer and, if he or she is not there, leave my name, or (b) write a letter to the editor or an opinions piece. But a message without a corresponding name or number is like peanut butter without jelly, Bert without Ernie, Davidson without the Honor Code. Ultimately, it’s just tough for me to take seriously.

So, Voice, I look forward to hearing from you. And this time, I want a name.

Men’s hoops hits hot streak

Two wins vault team back into Southern Conference race

Landry, Donnelly save the day against The Citadel

By MICHAEL Kruse
Sports Editor

CHARLESTON, S.C., Jan. 27 - Two of Charleston’s finest eateries are called Cisco’s Cafe and Ali’s Alley. How, then, could the men’s basketball team, guided so often by Ali Ton and Narcisse “Cisco” Ewodo, possibly lose in the Lowcountry?

Ultimately though, it wasn’t Cisco or Ali who pushed the Wildcats to the win at all. Ewodo was held to four points and two rebounds - both season lows for him - and Ton was shut out of the assist column for the first time this year. Instead, it was Landry Kosmalski and Mark Donnelly who teamed up to give the Wildcats (10-8, 4-3 SC) a come-from-behind 63-58 win over The Citadel (9-9, 2-5) in a defensive stalemate Monday night at McAlister Field House.

Donnelly, coming off a career-best 29-point performance last week vs. ETSU, scored just three through the first 36 minutes of the game, but tallied seven difference-making points in the final four. He tied it at 57 on a three at the 3:55 mark, put Davidson up by one with two free throws at 1:31, and sealed the victory with a tough turnaround jumper with 40 seconds left.

But Donnelly’s crunch-time exploits would not have mattered one bit were it not for another spectacular performance by wunderkind Kosmalski. While four-fifths of the starting lineup had relative off nights, the rookie essentially carried the squad. Kosmalski scored a career-high 24 points - highlighted by 13-of-14 free throws - and grabbed 15 rebounds, strengthening his already rock-solid case for Southern Conference Freshman-of-the-Year honors.

“Freshmen don’t shoot well

See Citadel win on page 15

Cisco crashes boards, leads Wildcats to win over VMI

By Dante Motz
Staff Writer

DAVIDSON, Feb. 1 - Narcisse Ewodo notched his third double-double of the season, scoring 17 points and grabbing a career-high 17 rebounds to lead Davidson to their third straight win, a 77-67 victory over Virginia Military Institute.win Saturday over VMI in Belk Arena. Ewodo had been in the throes of a four-game slump, averaging just ten points and shooting under 40% from the field since his 28-point outburst against Western Carolina. “I haven’t been shooting well recently, so it felt really good out there tonight,” said Ewodo. “The rebounding makes me feel good too because I haven’t rebounded that well all season.” 

“Cisco is a jack-of-all-trades for us, as versatile as they come,” said Wildcat coach Bob McKillop. “He has really sacrificed a lot to blend his talents with the team. He does whatever the team asks from him.” 

An early six-point deficit and two quick Landry Kosmalski fouls that sent him to the bench for the last 17 minutes of the first half did not get Davidson off to the start they had hoped for. But a 12-4 run over the next five and a half minutes gave Davidson a 17-15 lead—a lead the Wildcats would never relinquish. Cisco scored 12 in the first half, and a David Burns three-pointer as time expired gave the Wildcats a 38-31 halftime lead. A Billy Armstrong driving layup gave the Wildcats a 52-42 advantage at the 12:42 mark, but the Keydets scored nine unanswered points, the last bucket a trey by Bryan Taueg, to cut the margin to one. 

“At that point in the game, if we didn’t maintain our poise, if we showed youth and inexperience, I think (VMI) could have come over the hump, and then we would have...” 

See VMI win on page 16

Davidson dunks Duke tuning up for championships

By WILL BRADSHAW | Sports Editor

No Davidson swimming and diving team had ever beaten Duke until Saturday when the men’s squad strutted out of Durham with a 125-118 victory. The women put on an impressive display too, but ultimately the Blue Devils’ ability in the breaststroke, distance freestyle, and diving proved too much for the Wildcats, who fell 143-98. But the meet was much closer than the final score appears. After nine of thirteen events, the Wildcats were within two points, 85-83. 

“Whether you’re up by a lot or down by a lot, at any one point in a meet, things can change quickly,” head coach Rich DeSelm said. “Duke’s women were up by 25 after the 1m diving, and three events later we were within two. So much of a meet is emotion. If you predetermine the outcome then you’re doing yourself and your teammates a disservice. We were not as sharp as we needed to be during the first third of the meet. We had a meeting after the first (diving) break, and we outswam Duke in the second third. But what I wanted everybody to see is that a meet is never over until the last race has been swum or the last dive has been dove.”

Terry Dolch set the only Wildcat record of the day, lowering his week-old mark in the 100 back (52.37) leading off the 400 medley relay (3:33.62, first). Dolch, Matt Lake, Mark Medendorp, and Mike McCabe finished two-tenths off a school record in that relay. Dolch also won the 200 back (1:55.94). In addition, Freddy Schnell swam a lifetime best on his way to second in the 1000 free (9:48.74), and won the 500 free (4:45.21). Scott Harper set personal records in winning the 50 free (22.13) and grabbing second in the 100 free (48.13). Michael Hart had another double win in diving (238.80-1m, 221.05-3m). Keith Nelson won the 200 IM (1:57.83). Sam Kuykendall (1:57.55) and Medendorp (1:58.69) went 1-2 in the 200 fly, and Bill Paterson came splashing in right behind Harper in the 50 free (22.46) as the Wildcats went 1-2 in that event as well.

For the women, Mary Shell Brosche had a double win, taking the 200 back (2:07.86) and 200 free (1:55.78). Allison Hobgood came in behind Brosche in the 200 back (2:12.36), pushing the Wildcats to a 1-2 finish. Zannah Bozzone, Britta Toleman, Jennifer Howard, and Rachel Horak gave the Wildcats a win in the 400 medley relay (4:07.40). Allison Beebe set two personal records on the day, winning the 100 free (54.73) and grabbing fourth in the 200 free (1:58.64). Kathleen Paffenroth collected a win in the 200 fly (2:11) and took second in the 200 IM (2:15.31). Howard (2:14) and Jennifer Hillmann (2:14) powered in behind Paffenroth in the 200 fly, as the Wildcats took 1-2-3 in the event.

“The men had a winning dual meet season (5-4), and the women improved to 4-5 after a 1-9-1 dual meet season last year, which is significant,” DeSelm said. “Although we lost the women’s meet, Duke’s depth in diving, distance freestyle, and the breaststroke made the score look a lot further apart than it looked. We are not far away from winning that meet.”

The numbers certainly support DeSelm’s claim. In the five distance freestyle, breaststroke, and diving events, Duke’s women thumped Davidson, 75-18. In the other eight events, the Wildcats outscored the Blue Devils, 80-68.