THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
KRISTEN BARTCH

Opinions Editors
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
SARAH OGDEN

Arts & Living Editors
DAVID SANTSCHI
CARRIE MORRIS

Layout Editor
RANDY SKATTUM

Sports Editor
DANIEL MOTZ

Web Page Manager
HENDI FINK

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Advertising Managers
SCOTT REEDER
CHLOE BROOKE

Business Manager
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS

Copy Editors
DAVID JOHNSTON

Circulation Managers
WHITNEY BLAKE
CHLOE BROOKE
LYNSAY MADLEY
McNEIL CARSWELL

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1997

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Suppression of passion

I have made a decision only because there is no more time to decide. After two months of fence-straddling, pro-and-con evaluation, and self-introspection, I have finally and painfully reached what I think is the only logical conclusion in this yes-or-no, stay-or-go quandary: I will step down as editor in chief of the Davidsonian. This issue is my last.

I never came to Davidson with dreams of becoming editor of the paper. I wanted to be a sports writer — I still do — and my position as sports editor suited me fine. And I certainly didn’t enter spring semester of last year with the intention or expectation that I would be offered such an opportunity. Yet as the academic year neared its end, I emerged as the only legitimately qualified — and even more importantly, the only willing — candidate to take on not only the apparent power and prestige, but the time and effort, the headache and heartache.

When all is said and done, I am glad I decided to accept the job. It forced me to venture out of the comfort zone that was for me the world of sports reporting. During this semester, I have met in person or talked to a number of former editors. And practically without fail, they all have the same thing to say — that their time as editor was as frustrating as it was fulfilling, but that it was the defining experience of their Davidson careers. In essence, it was a full-time job that gave them the tools necessary to succeed, regardless of what they ended up doing after college.

After a semester in charge, I can wholeheartedly relate. Over the last four months, I have learned more about myself, my abilities, and my inabilities than in any other previous academic year. And, due to no fault of my professors, so little of that learning came in the classroom. This semester, my classroom was the Davidsonian office.

I leave the editorial post with mixed emotions, though they lean more towards a feeling of emptiness and a job unfinished than satisfaction and contentment. Although I truly believe this semester’s set of papers was the best this campus has ever seen, the current level of quality merely scratches the surface of what the Davidsonian could be. The paper is good, but in my head it is incredible. There are so many ideas — concrete ideas, not fanciful musings — floating around in my mind, and that is unfortunately where most of them will stay.

Because of a lack of committed institutional backing and often inconsistent manpower, coupled with the at times overwhelming academic demands this school places on its students, so many extracurricular organizations on this campus — the Davidsonian included, but certainly not only the Davidsonian — are but shells of what they could be. Davidson’s unwavering commitment to intense classroom learning — which definitely isn’t a bad thing, but shouldn’t be the only thing — makes it so amazingly difficult to be passionate about anything else. And if you are, you suffer. The classroom is not the only place where valuable learning can happen and cerebral knowledge is not the only mark of intelligence.— a concept this school’s power circle seems unable to grasp. In a way, I feel like I’m extricating myself just in time, just before my passion for journalism takes over, just before I irreversibly cross the line towards academic failure. I would inevitably have tried to make all those ideas in my head come to life — and I would have died doing so. This semester was no cakewalk; next semester would have been a disaster. That’s what this school’s chosen system has taught me this term: Suppress your passion so you can make the grade. Because a good grade won’t directly allow me to achieve my dream of being a journalist, but the lack thereof could squash the dream before it ever begins. So I turn to the books, conforming to join the academic rat race. And say I make a 3.6 this spring — or a 3.0 for that matter. Will that be any more fulfilling, educational, and personally gratifying than my experience this fall? Doubtful. But one thing’s for sure: Davidson College will approve. I wish my successors, Sarah Ogden and Randy Skattum — as a sophomore and freshman, respectively, leaders of an unprecedented youth movement at the top of the Davidsonian totem pole — the best of luck in their challenge to balance paper and school. Because if they continue to show such a high level of dedication to the Davidsonian, something’s got to give.

Pitehoc of: Nagella’s editorial appreciated

To the Editor:

I could not let Naresh Nagella’s editorial column “Managing Depression” go without acknowledgment. Unlike campus controversies and news events, depression is not a “glamour” topic, nor one that typically invites the focus of a broad portion of the campus community. Thus, I was very gratified to see a student give attention to the issue and even do a little research to discern that “depression is a more common phenomenon at Davidson than we might think.” Ain’t it the truth!

Additionally, I would like to express on behalf of all our staff — Dr. DeWitt Crosby, Nance Longworth, Georgia Ringle, and Christine Davidson — our gratitude for your accompanying observations about the effectiveness of treatment at the Student Counseling Center. Most of all, I appreciated your reference to the inappropriateness of any lingering stigma about using professional resources to address this all-too-common human condition called depression. We keep chipping away at that issue — in PE 101, depression awareness programs, and the like — but an unsolicited word from a student, based on his or her own observations and experiences, is inevitably much more powerful. Your editorial was exactly that, and I thank you for it. In keeping with your other observation, we will continue to look for more ways to extend the visibility of the Student Counseling Center as a resource for students.

David Staton
Director
Student Counseling Center

No need for an alcohol-related death

To the Editor:

I want to thank the Davidsonian for continuing to write about alcohol use and abuse on our campus. It is an issue that troubles many of us who are concerned with the well-being of our students and their social environment. Unfortunately, we have too many students abusing alcohol on a regular basis and it can be a very scary situation when a ride to the hospital is needed. This student body has so much great potential for taking care of yourselves and your friends. Please don’t be shy. Speak out when you witness abuse.

My quoted point in the last issue (“It’s not Court-related. I think the Court gets a bad rap.”) was not necessarily to defend the Court, but to state that this happens all over campus. You, the students, know where, when, and how abuse takes place. It is time we all spoke up so that no one could misconstrue silence as tacit approval of dangerous behavior. I don’t want to have a fatality to make us face what we already know.

Georgia Ringle
Davidson Health Educator