THE DAVIDSONIAN - TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Opinions Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
KRISTEN BARTCH

News Editors
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
SARAH OGDEN

Arts & Living Editors
DAVID SANTSCHI
CARRIE MORRIS

Layout Editor
RANDY SKATTUM

Sports Editor
JAY CANTRELL

Web Page Manager
HENDI FINK

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Advertising Managers
SCOTT REEDER
CHLOE BROOKE

Business Manager
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS

Copy Editors
DAVID JOHNSTON
WHITNEY BLAKE

Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
LYNSAY MADLEY

McNEIL CARSWELL

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

After one hundred and fifty years of social repression, sororities and fraternities were abolished, and those students fettered by the
cruel institution were set free to make Davidson the place it knew it could be.

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

An open letter to the president

Dear Bobby:

It’s in your hands. You must levy a final verdict on sororities — an ultimate yes or no on an
issue that has been anything but black and white. Please accept this last-minute advice: listen to us. Listen to the
students.

You told us in the very first Davidsonian of the year, “Your being on this campus is what breathes life
into it. The frenetic activities — building and patching, creating new courses, etc. — which occur here all summer take
meaning only upon your return. Without the students, this campus is a painting with faded lines and dull colors, a
symphony with no strings, a sporting event with no fans.”

You have actively and willingly participated in a slip-and-slide party on a freshman hall. You have had pies thrown into
your face at the Lunar Luau. We see you at sporting events clad in Davidson red and black. You are
out and about, mingling with the little people, showing that you care. And we appreciate that.

After your inauguration, you told the Davidsonian, “The students are the ones who are important. The festivities on Thursday and
Friday were meant to involve students as much as possible.” Indeed, you have established yourself a students-first president. Now is
your opportunity to cement that reputation.

The vast majority of students, especially female students, have spoken vehemently against the idea of sororities at Davidson. Last week’s
SGA poll, parts of the results of which were published in the Davidsonian, clearly demonstrates the predominant opinion — we
don’t want them. Over seven of every 10 women polled judged that sororities would have a negative impact on the
current eating house system, while only 8.2 percent supported their potential arrival. In a poll attempting to ascertain the opinion
of a weighted student body, 61.8 percent of students said sororities would have a negative impact on the current eating
house system. Only 12.9 percent favored their arrival.

Yet the Council on Campus and Religious Life vote determined little and failed to reflect the prevailing opinion on campus.
Bobby, does our voice matter? The CCRL vote reflected the apparent necessity of a hollow gender equity — if men
have fraternities, then women should correspondingly have sororities. But the majority of the students on this campus — and especially
women — think the eating house system is the better alternative. And if there is indeed a gender equity problem,
the institution of sororities is certainly not a viable or desirable solution. Two wrongs don’t make a right.

You are our leader, Bobby. Where will you take us?

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Even when stressed, respect Codes

To the Editor:

If you weren't stressed enough, exam time is right around the corner, and before that a final set of papers
and tests. As crunch time approaches, I urge you to respect each other's rights and remember the Honor Code. This
has been a difficult semester for the Solicitors, Defense Advisors, and the Dean of Students Office. Please do your part
as a member of the Davidson community and abide by both the Code of Responsibility and the Honor Code.

Virginia Fisher
Student Solicitor
Class of 1998

Swimming coverage embarrassing

To the Editor:

I respectfully request that you discontinue your coverage of both the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams. While undoubtedly
your priority lies in covering a sport that has not even started, basketball (and perhaps deservedly so), I would prefer
that you no longer dishonor me or my teammates with your embarrassing coverage. While I’m sure I’d much rather read
an article about the basketball team’s shot at an NCAAtournament berth, by simply adding 200 words about the swim team
to your sports page, you do not honor your duty as an editor. Further, not only do your hastily-written articles
reflect poorly on yourself, they reflect poorly on each and every member of our swim team. On Nov. 4, the
lead to the swimming article read: “The Wildcat swimmers raced off the blocks, but gradually sank to the bottom as
they dropped both dual meets Saturday.” Harsh, yet witty; but if it gets people to read on, then your job
is done. Unfortunately, we may have sunk to the bottom, but it is the Davidsonian who drowned in the rest
of the article.

While the Olympics uses meters, NCAA Division I swim meets are regularly held in yards. I know the pool looks
longer than it is, but as my professors here at Davidson have taught me, no question is a dumb question.
Next time the Davidsonian sports editor should ask someone who knows. David Maddux apparently “swam well in the 100-, 200-,
and 400-meter freestyle relays.” While I know full well what Maddux swam, the 100-yard freestyle, the 200-yard freestyle, and the
400-yard freestyle relay, many might be a little confused by the Davidsonian’s wordage. To clarify, the 100-meter freestyle relay is
generally swum by eight-year-olds during the summer months in what is commonly referred to in the swimming world as a
relay carnival. The 200-yard freestyle relay is in fact swum at championship meets, but rarely ever in dual meets. As
for the 400-yard freestyle relay, I guess the 400 part was right, so what does it matter if it says
meters or yards?

Regarding the Davidsonian’s comments about Elissa Weddel: I think anybody can read meet results. Well, almost anybody. It’s W-E-D-D-L-E. And
I won’t even comment on her “strong showings in the 50- and 100-meter freestyle relays,” which of course do not
exist.

Take one second to reread the first sentence of the Nov. 1 article on the swim team, and read no
further: “Both the men’s and women’s swim meets won in convincing fashion Saturday at Richmond.” OK, so it’s a typo.
Obviously, it should have read “swim teams.” Second sentence: “Davidson’s men defeated the Spiders 147-85, while the women lost 147-96.”
Maybe the Davidsonian should consult Editor-In-Chief Michael Kruse on this one, but I don’t think contradicting yourself in the first
two sentences of an article is generally accepted as quality journalism. I realize those two articles probably took seconds, if
not entire minutes. But two or three more seconds to read over what was written might help.

I hold my head high and proud as a member of the Davidson swimming and diving team. I plan to
do so the entire year. Please don’t write any more swimming articles. We're doing just fine on our own. We'll
beat Duke (again) and we'll win Southern States (again). And if we don’t, we'll die trying. And one more thing;
next time Sports Editor Jay Cantrell goes questioning the efforts of people so obviously passionate about what they do, maybe
he should take a look inward and decide if writing is really what he wants to do. Maybe Division I
is just not for him.

Mike McCabe
Class of 1999

Lannon showed spirit of a hero

To the Editor:

Two weeks ago at the Southern Conference cross-country championships, Katie Lannon, co-captain of the women’s team, fractured her leg during
the race. She was not hit from the back or slide tackled. Instead, her bone just crushed due to three
months of merciless repetitive pounding on her legs.

This event in itself is not spectacular. In fact, serious injuries such as broken bones, stress fractures, and torn muscles
are more common in running than in most “contact” sports. What is spectacular, amazing, unreal, and incredible is that she
finished the race. Katie ran at least a mile and a half with a broken leg. Since the race, she
has been confined to crutches. I want to bring this to everyone’s attention because each week I read praise for
the Davidsonian’s “Athlete of the Week.” Though Katie didn’t set a monumental record, she showed the spirit, the determination, and
the bravery indicative in every way of a hero. She overcame human limits and refused to quit. For this reason
alone, I would like to make Katie Lannon an honorary athlete of the year and a hero in my book
forever.

Kelly Kiefer
Co-captain, women’s cross country team
Class of 1999
