4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPECIAL SECTION

Southern Conference Men’s Basketball Tournament

Noon
2:30 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
9:30 p.m.

Note: Play-in games are on Thursday night at 7:00 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. All games are played at the Greensboro
Coliseum.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT

Wednesday at campus sites

Southern Conference Women’s Basketball Tournament

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT

Mon.-Sat.
10 A.M.-5 P.M.

102 S. Main St.
P.O. Box 1652
Davidson, NC 28036

JOHN D. ROSE
Agent

Auto, Property, Life, Business

Allstate Insurance Company

118 S. Main St.
Davidson, NC 28036
Bus (704) 892-7579
FAX (704) 892-7308

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Leader Donnelly lends winning ways to young team

from page 1

“All the young guys listen to him because he’s a veteran and he’s been there before.”

A team often takes the form of its leader. And the Wildcats, like Donnelly, are an unselfish bunch.

“Many teams I have been on, like last year’s team, buy into the idea of being unselfish, whereas this team
is filled with unselfish people,” said Donnelly. “There are no egos. It starts with me and Cisco because we know
what we do well and don’t do well.”

Donnelly holds junior status, but he arrived on campus in Fall 1993. After choosing Davidson over elite programs such as
Florida St. and Rutgers, Donnelly had a difficult freshman year adjusting to McKillop’s intense style of play.

Donnelly ultimately took a medical redshirt in 1994.

And while that decision may have hindered his performance last year in which he shot only 38%, in retrospect, it
turned out to be the best decision for Donnelly, both on and off the court.

“That year changed my life. It got me closer to God and it gave me a whole new perspective,” he
said. “I wouldn’t be the player I am today if I didn’t take that year off.”

While his leadership and experience are admirable qualities, his success is unprecedented. In Donnelly’s three years at Davidson, the team
has compiled an amazing 64-22 record.

“Mark will go down as the winningest player in this program’s history,” McKillop predicted.

Despite his success, Donnelly insists the improvement of this year’s team - and the happiness it has produced - has
perhaps been one of his most gratifying basketball experiences.

“The biggest disappointment from last year is that we had everything riding on the NCAA tournament bid,” he said. “We
didn’t really enjoy the steps taken, and when we didn’t get there, it was like everything was for nothing.

“This year, we’ve just been enjoying taking the steps to make us better. If we make the tournament, great. If
we don’t, I won’t have any regrets because I know we have done it the right way.”

And so has Donnelly. His unselfishness, talent, and remarkable knack for winning has paved the way for the possibility of
a very special season for these Wildcats. Just ask Chris Hathcock.
