Che BD
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997
VOLUME 88, NUMBER 20

Burk proposes ways to spend extra $3000
By Mary Care JALONICK - Editor Emerita

Last month the Student Government Association (SGA) voted to give themselves an automatic 5% of the Activities Tax Council (ATC) budget. After some debate, new SGA President Buster Burk will not move to alter this policy. He will, however, take his proposed budget to the ATC and ask for approval. Because the ATC is an SGA committee and the SGA has authority over it, this approval will be not much more than advice.

Last year, the SGA received around 4% of the ATC budget. After tuition rises (and the ATC budget along with it), the automatic 5% gives the SGA a 30% increase from last year, or around an extra $3000. Burk will recommend that the extra money be split up into three parts: $1000 extra for the four classes ($250 each), $1000 for “special projects,” and $1000 for the new Rides Program.

He is unspecific about the details of this plan. He says the extra $250 will go to each class because they are all currently out of money. He hopes the $1000 for “special projects” will go toward coordinating events with the town of Davidson, possibly a barbeque. The Rides Program, which is currently in the works and scheduled to begin this semester, will use the other $1000. They will use the money to rent vans and coordinate rides to Cornelius.

“This gives us some leeway to do a lot of good things,” says Burk. He would also like to see the extra funds go toward organizations who petition the SGA for small amounts throughout the year.

In an interview on February 16, Burk had plans to propose changes to the budget increase. At that point, he suggested a separate fund for the Rides Program and a minimal increase for the SGA budget each year.

“My problem is that we kind of see - Decisions on: page 3

SOUNDS OF SPRING
Freshman Wesley Goldsberry, Junior Eleanor Merill, and Junior Christopher Gyves did not fiddle away this week’s nice weather as they joined their fellow Davidson Orchestra members for an outdoor rehearsal.
Bill Giduz

Applications up by 12% this year, Admissions says
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

A record number of admission applications have been received by the Office of Admissions so far this year. The applicant pool for Davidson’s Class of 2001 currently totals 3176 candidates, a 12% increase over last year’s tally. Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Nancy Cable says the rise in number of applications for admission can be attributed to a steadily increasing public awareness of Davidson’s preeminence among institutions of higher learning.

“The quality of the College and the dedication of its faculty unquestionably account for a large part of Davidson’s allure,” says Cable. “Credit also our admissions staff for working extremely hard to assemble an applicant pool of the very highest quality.”

287 of this year’s candidates for admission applied earlydecision, and 66% have been offered a place in Davidson’s Class of 2001. 230 foreign nationals and a record 202 African American students have also applied for admission to Davidson this year. “We’re very encouraged by the numbers. Achieving a more ethnically diverse applicant pool has certainly been an important goal for us,” says Associate Dean of Admission Wookie Payne. Part of the reason for the growth of the applicant pool may stem from the Office of Admission’s decision to accept the Common Application form from candidates for admission to the class of 2001. Over eight years have passed since Davidson last listed its name among those on the Common Application. According to Payne, the decision was in part driven by technology. “The Common Application is very accessible, both in disk form and on the World Wide Web. It also eases the burden on teachers and recommenders who now need only fill out one form, instead of stacks of different ones,” says Payne. Lest the Admission Office’s decision to accept the Common Application appear too overly obliging, the College still mandates that all admission candidates submit supplementary documentation. This additional material includes a character recommendation, and two personal essays, one concerning the Davidson College Honor Code. “What we’re noticing with the Common Application,” says Cable, “is that the percentage of high caliber, legitimate candidates for admission is increasing, rather than dissipating.” The Admissions Office hopes to introduce approximately 440 new members to the Davidson community as its Class of 2001. “We’re really in an enviable position,” says Payne. “Students from all over the world, who have lots of talents, interests, and abilities to offer Davidson are represented within the applicant pool. This means for us the strongest freshman class ever to enter the school.”

German symposium: It takes a city
Approaches to the city of Weimar
By J. ALISON BRYANT
Guest Writer

Theatre, sculpture, Goethe, music, Schiller, Nazis, chocolates, Goethe, democracy, landscape gardening, Sturm und Drang, a hunchback, Goethe, Bauhaus, the grotesque, hermeneutics, and Goethe: what do all of these things have in common? According to this weekend’s second annual Davidson German Studies Symposium, the answer is Weimar. A relatively small city in the former East Germany (one of the speakers called it “podunk” off the record), Weimar is the 1999 Kulturstadt Europas, Europe’s City of Culture. Home to Germany’s favorite sons, Goethe and Schiller, as well as Gropius’ Bauhaus movement, Weimar has long been considered the heart of German culture. This designation excludes other parts of Weimar’s past, however, including the Buchenwald concentration camp and the failed Weimar Republic, the constitution for which was drafted and signed in Weimar’s National Theatre. Being a city of such paradox, see Symposium on page 2

FEATURING PULL-OUT SPORTS SUPPLEMENT!

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1