‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
JESSICA GOODSON
WHITNEY BLAKE

Copy Editors
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
SARAH OGDEN
LYNSAY MADLEY
CARRIE MORRIS
ANNA ERIKSSON

Layout Editor
RANDY SKATTUM

Web Page Manager
HENDI FINK

Sports Editor
DANIEL MOTZ

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Business Manager
SCOTT REEDER

Advertising Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
DAVID SANTSCHI

Opinions Editors
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
KRISTEN BARTCH
DAVID JOHNSTON

Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
McNEIL CARSWELL

Associate Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1997

Alan Hyder

Founded in 1914

“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

You too should tell a story

Endings are always sad. We often try making some of that sadness disappear by accentuating the “new beginning” that follows every ending. For example, a bride ends her life as strictly a daughter and begins one as a wife, and a college senior ends his or her time as a student and begins one as a worker.

But even those examples indicate that such divisions are not so clear. The bride will take much of what she learned as a daughter in being a wife, and the college student will surely use the skills learned as a student when she works.

At the end of this semester, Mike and I will be stepping down from our respective positions as editor in chief and associate editor of the Davidsonian. We both are certainly sad. The paper is a major part of our lives and we take pride in being a student’s paper that aims for quality — even if we do not achieve that goal at all times. Our new beginning will be one in which our college life is a bit more regular and where we consult for the paper instead of run it.

However, as previously stated, there is definitely something that at least we feel we will take with us from this ending and into our “new beginning.” It is probably the best acquired skill one can gain from constant writing or journalism: the ability to tell a story. That benefit, however tangible or not, is what keeps me going whenever I question the value of the work done at the Davidsonian.

The paper is large and I know that not a lot of people read everything in the Davidsonian. (At 16 packed pages, I do not blame anyone — I have a difficult enough time proofreading my own papers for class.)

Often times, we do stories that seem mundane or simply carry that great journalistic merit in that they “take up space.” But we made the choice to be a comprehensive paper since our goal has been to make the Davidsonian as accurate a reflection as possible of what Davidson really is. In this sense, we are storytellers - writers of (Davidson) history’s first draft with this newspaper. Accordingly, the best way to describe and relate what Davidson is as a whole is through putting as many different stories as possible that will fit into this paper.

Working for the Davidsonian, you have to learn much about how to first see such stories, and then clearly relate them. In these stories are what is good about Davidson and what is bad about Davidson. They hold the answers to future challenging questions and display the results of past choices. For instance, just this week, the Davidsonian relates the story of a school in which 408 of its members added themselves to the Bone Marrow Registry, each donor increasing the chances of somebody else’s suffering ending. You see a school in which, finally, aMember of the fraternities defended his institution amidst direct attack by faculty and students. You also saw him pledge his devotion and love for the school nonetheless. You saw the story of a basketball team which earned respect and played a close game for almost 30 minutes against a powerhouse team like Duke. It leads you to ask some good questions: How great is it to be at a school which has the ability to get so many people to do such an objectively good thing in getting more people to join the bone marrow registry? (Objective Answer: Really, Super-duper Great!) Does Carlo Reynold’s opinion of the positive impact of fraternities outweigh Dr. Denham’s opinion of their negative impact? I believe Carlo’s defense was rather insular and private—avoiding the question of how fraternities can separate more than unite us. You might very well have another opinion—and these stories will hopefully create such conversations.

After telling these stories for three years now, the paper has given me hope. If I could tell you anything about Davidson from writing, listening, and reading the stories in this paper, it is that you can fix what’s wrong with Davidson with what is right with Davidson. This observation tells me the school is a good place no matter what we might think at some fleeting moment. As long as you are prepared and have the courage of your convictions, the school offers you the chance of seeing them fulfilled. We might do something bad now, but the school allows people to question and change it for the future. While not smoothly or ideally, the school encourages and rewards skepticism and I believe that is reflected in the paper. I urge anyone who even has an inkling to be a part of the paper to join and help the next editorial board continue to tell these stories. You do not have to just write. The Davidsonian is an immense group project that involves copy editing, business management and sales, and planning.

Finally, to the committed people you see in the box above, the many others who write for the paper, and the others who do not let apathy stop them from giving us stories worth telling, I say thanks. You make sure future generations of Davidsonians will know the promise of your school—keeping its prospect great and values treasured in history’s eyes—and our own.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Thanks from Chapel Committee

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Chapel Committee, I would like to thank all the students, faculty, and staff who helped to make the “Room in the Inn” drive a great success. We collected:
- 124 bars of soap
- 105 bottles of shampoo
- 47 sticks of deodorant
- 46 tubes of toothpaste
- 42 washcloths
- 40 towels
- 29 razors
- 27 toothbrushes
- 25 pillows
- 18 blankets

Over 50 churches and schools in Mecklenburg County will help to provide 70-80 additional beds for the homeless through the “Room in the Inn” program. Davidson’s role in the program will begin Jan. 16, housing and feeding five homeless guests every Saturday night through the end of March. Thanks to everyone who has been supportive of this program.

Liz Clasen
Class of 2000

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at mikruse@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space requirements mandate.