THE DAVIDSONIAN | Arts & Living
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

Krause gives campus sneak preview of debut CD, “Clarity”
Liz Reid

Diane Krause sings Thursday night in the 900 Room. Her CD, “Clarity,” was released yesterday.

By Carrie Morris
Arts & Living

I met Diane Krause at the beginning of our freshman year. She was sitting cross-legged on the linoleum hall of
first Rich, guitar on lap, dressed in Krause attire — jeans, Oak Ridge soccer sweatshirt, hiking boots. I had ventured
out of my room (which was a rare occurrence freshman year) to see where all the noise was coming from
outside my door. I found Krause surrounded by a few hallmates and she was begging them to sing with her
while she played her guitar. She saw me and kindly forced me and my anti-social alter-ego (which developed when I
first arrived at Davidson) to come over and join them. I complied. That moment, I learned how important it was
to take a risk and be myself. Krause was as new as I was to the situation at hand, but
she put herself out there and infused all of us around her that night with a sense of belonging in
a new and unfamiliar place.

That sense of community resonates as an important part of her music. She has brought crowds together and collected loyal
fans of all ages from all over the town of Davidson over the past three years. She started out as
half of Ecdysis, a word meaning “the shedding of an outer layer of skin; molting.” This duo was composed of
Krause and freshman hallmate Katherine Palmer. The two played in the Outpost, Caribou Coffee, and were a house-packing gig at
the late Cosmic Coffee. The shows were enthusiastic and casual, bringing people together under the medium of poetry and music.

On Thursday night, Krause performed some of her newest work involving the piano as well as previewing some of the
work on her solo CD, which comes out this week. Krause commands a majestic presence and tells her story in
flawless pitch — a quality of voice only to be compared with angels. Her music speaks from seemingly personal experience
fueled by a vulnerable heart which makes her nothing less than enchanting and overwhelmingly human.

The advice she gave me without even meaning to is advice she holds within her and has followed throughout this
part of her journey. She creates, she shares her spirit, and she vehemently follows the heart that I trusted when
I was pushed into the hall to sing with her.

In the wake of her debut CD, Carrie Morris recently sat down with Diane Krause to discuss her music and
where it has come from.

Morris: When did music begin for you?
Krause: I grew up in the classical tradition with lessons in piano, violin, trumpet, and voice. Actually, I pretty much
neglected church choir. Actually, I pretty much neglected music, left it on the backburner for other things that at the
time seemed more important.

M: Such as?
K: Sports. Actually, when I came to Davidson, I wanted to play soccer here and I started to train. I
realized that my knees were in too much pain from all the playing I had done. Soccer was the most
important thing in my life at the time, and it was so emotional that I realized I had to do
something with my life. So I started playing the guitar the summer after high school.

M: What were you playing?
K: I just wanted to play other people's songs. I had no intention of writing any music whatsoever. I just
enjoyed singing with people and just playing things by Nanci Griffith, Shawn Colvin, Indigo Girls — those kinds of artists.
Then I just started writing music even though I didn’t really know where it was coming from. I didn’t really
know how to do it but I found myself moved to do it. I had written a lot of poetry
in my last years of high school and that was my original artistic medium, but it was still personal. I
didn’t share.

See Krause interview on page 11

900 Room to ingest Gilbert Grape

The next movie in this year’s parade of outstanding — yet somewhat overlooked — films is “What’s Eating Gilbert Grape,”
the 1993 production that will show in the 900 Room on Wednesday and Friday. Based on a novel by Peter
Hedges, this first English-speaking effort by Swedish director Lasse Halström (“My Life as a Dog”) makes for an indubitably pleasant
cinematic experience. Johnny Depp plays the lead role of the late-teenaged Gilbert Grape (his actual name), who resides in the
midwestern township of Endora, where he is employed by a suffering neighborhood grocery store. The main character in the film,
Gilbert leads a...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Unique life on several fronts. Aside from his nearly insufferable job, Gilbert has been forced to take on the role
of patriarch to his three younger siblings ever since their father hung himself in the basement of their rickety farmhouse.
His mother, who at 500 pounds has not left the house for several years, “makes the circus fat lady look
like Kate Moss,” in the eyes of Sal of the Borders staff in Novi, Mich. Gilbert’s younger brother, Arnie (Leonardo
DiCaprio), is mentally retarded and gives Depp’s exasperated but persevering character plenty of daily adventures to deal with — his
two apathetic, unappreciative sisters notwithstanding. Gilbert is also involved in an affair with a local housewife, played by Mary Steenburgen.

Our tendency towards the Grape family falls awkwardly between laughter and sadness. We may either gawk at the immense massivity
of Gilbert’s mother (Darlene Cates), for example, or feel pity for both her and her children, left without a mobile
parental unit. However, this is obviously the intent of the picture: to be comical in plot yet serious in the
feelings that the film portrays.

Halfway through the film, a trailer appears next to a nearby Endora lake, inhabited by a young lady named Becky
(Juliette Lewis) and her grandmother. Becky just happens to be the only girl Gilbert’s age within a 300-mile radius of
the local Burger Barn, so they become fast friends. The two rebel teens eventually recognize the fate put forth by
their simultaneous geographical orientation and indulge themselves in a relationship. Becky expands Gilbert’s worldview and provides a source of consolation
after day-in-day-out rescuing of Arnie from life-threatening situations and defending his mother’s dignity.

Other movie highlights include Crispin Glover, who plays an undertaker. “What’s Eating Gilbert Grape” proves that an enthralling film need
not necessarily be a high-budget film. It runs its audience back and forth through the complete emotional gamut, laughing hysterically
one moment and crying crystalline tears of sorrow the next. Leonardo DiCaprio’s performance won him an Academy Award nomination, and
provides an entertaining glimpse of him during his pre-Romeo years. The casting is excellent, the pathos exquisite. It’s PG-13, so
cover your eyes during the naughty parts.

“L.A. Confidential” a potential award-winner

“L.A. Confidential,” a highly evocative picture about Los Angeles circa the mid-1950s, is a film that’s brimming with corruption, betrayal,
and tawdry sex. But these thrills are not thrown in our faces for the mere sake of cheap excitement. The
multi-layered plot keeps you riveted for the best possible reason — you can’t imagine where the story is leading, and
the fiercely intense payoffs are worth the extra concentration.

As the film opens, we’re introduced to three L.A. detectives who will unravel a web of crime leading to a
heroin operation, a high-class call-girl ring, set-ups, double-crosses, and finally, the corridors of power that are supposed to be keeping
all this nastiness in check. Ed Exley (Guy Pearce) is a bookish straight arrow who only wants to live up
to his father’s reputation as a dedicated cop. He’s perfect Davidson College material — he follows an honor code and
can play politics when needed. Floating elegantly around the edges of this situation is Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey), a suave
veteran who earns extra bucks as the technical advisor on a Dragnet-like cop show. He also likes to help a
muckraking tabloid journalist named Sid Hudgens (Danny DeVito) set up unsuspecting stars and starlets as fodder for the tell-all publication,
Hush Hush.

One of the main non-cop characters is Pierce Patchett (David Strathairn), a filthy-rich pimp who leases out women who have
been surgically altered to look like movie stars. The “Veronica Lake” of this story is Lynn Bracken, superbly played by
Kim Basinger. Her silky charms, which could leave most men weak-kneed, and the affections of a highly unlikely police detective.

The first problem is that none of these three cops can stand the sight of one another. No two detectives
are driven by the same motive. Careerism, love, and a highly unexpected sense of guilt all come into play, but
not before they perform a series of twists around the various plot strands. The discovery of a gruesome mass execution
at a diner known as the Nite Owl leads the detectives through the lower rungs, and then the upper echelons,
of L.A. society.

The movie is long by today’s standards at 136 minutes, yet it does not drag and I felt no need
to check my watch wondering when it would end. This is an excellent movie that will garner some nominations, if
not awards, at the Oscars next year. Grade: A.
