THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

I’m gonna go out on a limb here. I’m gonna say that last weekend I had the most fun I’ve
ever had, at least in as long as I can remember, and I went mad doing it. You see, last
weekend I made the trek down to Mardi Gras in New Orleans. It all started on a Thursday afternoon at
4 pm. Well, it actually started months before in all our eager anticipation and planning. But it officially began when
we headed down I-77 to begin the 3-day trip into the madness. I call it madness because there’s really no
other word to describe the spirit of Mardi Gras, except for unbridled revelry (but that would be two words). Coming
from this virtual hotbed of excitement we call Davidson, I really expected to be let down by all the hype
about this giant street festival. I mean the idea of a huge party sounds cool, but plastic beads and parades?
That sounds like little kids' stuff. But how could I be expected to know? How could anyone be expected to
know without experiencing it firsthand? But that’s the magic of Mardi Gras Madness. It takes you by surprise.

Ken May
Mardi Gras Madness!

We started things off on Friday with an authentic Cajun classic, the crawfish boil. For the uninitiated, a crawfish is
a small lobster-like crustacean that lives in the mud near water. A crawfish boil is where you take 250 pounds
of these live little suckers and dump them into a big cauldron of boiling spicy goodness. In an hour, they’re
all cooked, red, and ready to be fed to hungry stomachs. They’re all dumped onto a big picnic table and
everybody swarms around like vultures, devouring them with their bare hands. Did I mention that boiled crawfish are eaten by
twisting off the head, sucking out its juices, and then pulling out the tail meat with one’s teeth? Sound crude?
Well, it is, but you don’t bat an eyelash once the madness has taken over.

After being gorged on these tasty delights, we head into the city where the real action takes place. As we
approach the outskirts, the traffic thickens and we begin to sense the madness in the air. Now on foot, we
head towards the eye of the storm from which all madness derives: the French Quarter. People seem to stream out
of every nook and cranny. By the time we reach Bourbon Street, the crowd is so thick that it takes
about 20 minutes to walk one block. Not only is the ground teeming with partiers, but so is the sky.
The balconies lining the street are stuffed with revelers who take great pleasure in negotiating deals with the groundlings. If
you haven’t heard, at Mardi Gras, plastic bead necklaces are all the rage. The bigger the better. Why? Well, we
quickly found out. See, people without beads want beads (especially the big ones since they’re so cool). But there’s a
catch. The only real way to get beads is to... well, shall we say “show some skin.” And not just
any skin, but special skin that normally stays hidden from the light of day.

And believe you me, there was more skin than any self-respecting Davidson student could ever expect to see in one
afternoon. Big skin, little skin, good skin, bad skin. It made no difference. It was everywhere. After a while, a
person can only take so much skin, so we headed out of the Quarter to the big parade of the
day. Now previously, my impression of a parade was a wimpy line of cars and people slowly passing by and
waving. Not so in New Orleans. Parades here are extravaganzas of merriment. We lined up two hours early to get
a front-row position and boy was it worth it. When the parade began, people started going nuts, certainly unlike any
madness I’d seen. Why all the hysteria? It soon became evident. As the massive, elaborately decorated floats passed by, masked
and costumed paraders threw thousands of, you guessed it, beads to the bystanders. As the beads came flying down from
on high, people shouted and begged and jumped and shoved and dove and raised all hell, as if they were
groping for manna from heaven. Three hours and forty floats later, I found myself covered with beads, around my neck,
in my pockets, on my head. The madness had overtaken me. As we trudged back to the car, I realized
that all these beautiful beads would be worthless in a few hours upon leaving New Orleans. Yet I couldn’t part
with them. I guess they remind me that a little madness is good for us all now and then.

Kristen Bartch
Eavesdropping

I heard some people talking about the Davidsonian the other day. One asked the other, as he looked at the
opinions section, “Why do they print this #@$% in the paper? These articles are stupid and pointless...” I can’t argue
with that, a lot of them are. I mean, really, until I started working on the Davidsonian I didn’t realize
how many truly weird people there were here in this tiny college. However, they have a way of coming out
of the woodwork to see their name in print. But, I do have a few questions for this unnamed critic
— Who are you? What are you? Who moved the rock? I don’t know you, I don’t recognize your face
and therefore I know you haven’t written the huge amounts of opinions submissions that Dave and I have denied publication.
— That’s a joke, by the way. The lack of submissions we receive should be obvious by the fact that
for this issue we both had to write to fill our pages. Basically - whoever you are - I feel
the same way toward you that I feel toward people who don’t vote - ambivalent (well, not really) until you
open yourmouth. If you don’t vote you have inherently given up your right to complain about your representative politicians (If
you come from a country where you haven’t the right to vote please allow me to make a disclaimer here).
Accordingly, if you haven’t written an article for opinions—don’t criticize, just shut your mouth and realize that it’s your fault
we have to print lame articles. Dave and I don’t print only the articles we like; we print the articles
we get! So, if you had enough gumption to complain and, God forbid, have an opinion about the opinions section,
or even the paper as a whole, why don’t you do something constructive (like write for us) instead of just
complaining. Do you really think that I enjoy printing articles disguised as enlightening that are really just personal attacks on
a friend I begged to write for me? Do you think I enjoy the scared look and the premature "no"
I get from everyone I know before I even have a chance to try and cajole them into writing for
us? So, if you don’t like what you read, submit. Dave and I aren’t at all discriminating (obviously). Though I
must say we’ve decided to Just Say No to opinions about events occurring in the library bathrooms (our apologies to
an embittered news writer who seems fascinated with the subject). Writing for the opinions section means putting yourself on the
line in a manner of speaking, I’ll admit that. But, if you’re not willing to suck it up and take
any comments or teasing which might result from your writing an article—just shut up—I’m tired of hearing you. People of
Davidson, write! You have nothing to lose.

Saturday morning, I picked up my newspaper and was mildly surprised to see that President Clinton had stuck his nose
into the middle of the American Airline pilot strike. I then proceeded down below the fold and almost passed out.
Coffee prices are going up! Apparently, the weather hasn’t been too nice to the coffee bean farmers in South America
this year, and there’s a shortage of java. I began to break out in a sweat, and my hands started
trembling.

Josh Roberts
The World of Coffee

Plans on how I could get to Harris Teeter and buy up all the Maxwell House rushed through my mind.
Panic was sure to be rampant in the streets. How could the government let this happen? Coffee is a staple
of the American diet just like the baguette is in France. The French government subsidizes baguette bakers so that the
price is the same everywhere in France, which is about 60 cents for an entire meter-long baguette. Why can’t our
government do something similar? I will tell you why. Bill is too busy protecting the interests of a major airline
company to bother with us lowly consumers. He probably doesn’t even have to pay for his coffee. I bet he
doesn’t even have to brew it. No doubt he has his new secretary, Madeleine Albright, whip up some pot... I
mean, a pot whenever he needs a pick-me-up. It probably comes to him on a nice silver tray. I could
sell that tray and use the money to buy a year’s supply of coffee.

Speaking of France, I just came back from there and their coffee system is a little peculiar. The French do
have pretty darn good coffee, but it’s served in espresso form, and they don’t give free refills. If you have
ever seen espresso coffee cups, you will understand why this is so annoying. I’ve seen bigger shot glasses. Everything is
so expensive over there that you want to lounge awhile and not down your coffee too fast. Some people, like
Nathan Raley, will get an espresso with hot milk to try and make it last longer. But since it’s such
a piddly amount, if you take too long, like more than five minutes, it gets cold. I don’t care how
good it was hot, two cold ounces of $1.50 coffee is like a glass of warm, flat champagne.

Luckily, I also had the opportunity to visit Italy, the coffee Mecca of Europe. While in Milan, I had the
most incredible cup of cappuccino at a small cafe near the Duomo. Italy may not have the best economy of
Europe and it doesn’t exactly have a great track record in warfare, but they sure do know how to bring
out every ounce of flavor from each and every one of Columbia’s finest. As I relished each drop of this
Italian ambrosia, I felt “as if there was a party in my mouth and everyone was invited,” to borrow a
phrase from the Simpsons.

While abroad, I traveled to England, the land of tea-time. I stayed at a bed & breakfast, and for breakfast
I was delighted to learn that the British were much less stingy with their Joe. I could have as many
cups as I wanted. Unfortunately, the British, who really know their tea, were probably the originators of the word “slag”
as a synonym for coffee. I have this suspicion that they are really into recycling, so much so that they
even recycle their filters and coffee grounds. Sure, it woke me up, but so does sour milk.

My mother is of the belief that we are where we are today as a country thanks to coffee and
its wonderful stimulant, caffeine. Surely, the country of such large corporations as Starbucks, Caribou, Cosmic, Waffle House, and Vail Commons
should classify coffee as a most-favored commodity. Can you imagine what would happen if we had to drink tea instead?
It would be like taking a step back toward English rule. The next thing you know, Major League Soccer fans
would become unruly and Hillary would start wearing a crown. So do something before it’s too late. Write your congresswoman.
Hold peaceful protest marches and sit-ins. Fight for your right to coffee. But your apathy!
