‘DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

Football looking to make the centennial season one to remember

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The 1997 Davidson football season, the 100th in program history, has already been labeled as special. But the players are
looking to truly make it that way.

“What a great time for us to take another step to reaching our potential,” coach Tim Landis said Friday. “It’s
been really encouraging how the school has embraced this as a big happening.”

The Wildcats - coming off a promising 6-4 campaign in 1996, including three straight wins to end the season -
appear poised, experienced, and talented enough to challenge the school’s all-time victory standard of seven. And with 11 games on
this fall’s schedule instead of the customary ten, even eight wins is not out of the question.

“Success breeds a better work ethic,” Landis pointed out. “As a team, we’ve just made great progress in weight training
and conditioning. To a man, we’ve gotten bigger and stronger.”

They’ll need to be in the season finale versus South Florida Nov. 22 in Tampa’s Houlihan’s Stadium, home of the
NFL’s Bucs. USF, a I-AA scholarship team which will be playing its first year of football next year, plans to
move up to I-A status in five or six years.

“It will be a tremendous test,” understated Landis. “It’s scholarship football, but it will be very rewarding. We want to
spend some time down there and try to make it a bowl atmosphere.”

Scheduling change

The Wildcats are a I-AA non-scholarship squad, but play Division III teams, primarily because there are not enough similar opponents
in the Southeast. But that’s slowly changing, opening the door for Davidson to start developing a schedule which will eventually
consist mostly of I-AA non-scholarship schools.

Jacksonville (Fla.) University is instituting a program at that level, and Austin Peay (Tenn.), and Morehead (Ky.) St. are both
dropping down from scholarship status. The Wildcats are contracted to open the 1998 season at Jacksonville. JU, Austin Peay, and
Georgetown are all on the 1999 docket, and the team is set to play at the University of San Diego
in 2000.

Other possible opponents in the future include St. John’s, Wagner, Drake, and Valparaiso. “Schools whose basketball teams you see on
TV, but you’re not aware that they have a football team,” as Landis puts it.

“I’m keeping some openings for ‘99 because I really believe there will be more people playing at our level.”

---

New York University Study Abroad

PARIS • LONDON • PRAGUE • SPAIN • FLORENCE

We’re coming to your campus!

- Scholarships available
- Full range of courses
- Summer and academic year programs

April 17th, 1997
3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.
The Home Room in the College Union

For more information:
(212) 998-8720
international.study@nyu.edu
www.nyu.edu/studyabroad/

---

Rainbow Deli Hwy 73 Cafe

Presents a new line up of entertainment and specials for the spring and summer!!

Wednesday Night: Band -- Life on Mars
- Asst. $1.00 Domestics
- $2.00 Shooter Specials and more
- Food discounts for students

Thursday Night: Mug Night!! BYOM up to 32 oz. $1.50
- Band -- Chief Joy
- $2.00 Shooter Specials and more
- Food discounts for students

Lake Norman 896-0091

Show your college ID and receive a 15% discount on food! This discount is good Sunday thru Thursday.
