RTS & LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

In acts of strength and balance that defy normal human limits, Pilobolus dances and creates artistic images as impressive for their sheer physical ability as for their naked beauty.
Will Nolan

Pilobolus amazes Love Auditorium
By Carrie VAN DEEST
Guest Writer

While many refer to them only as the company that dances “naked,” Pilobolus Dance Theatre’s superior reputation is based on more than their costuming (or lack of it). Their unique variety of modern dance drew record numbers to Love Auditorium last Wednesday night for the third show in the Union’s Artists Series. The six-member company performed five unique pieces, each demonstrating remarkable strength and creative invention.

In the opening piece, “Harbison Work,” the dancers’ bodies became a playground. Combining incredible muscle and grace, they swung, slid, climbed, and somersaulted over each other. The second piece took a Buster Keaton tone. Dancer Mark Santillano crossed the stage on perilous rolling tubes and battled with a park bench that ended up on his head in a solo from a larger work, “Empty Suitor.”

In “Alraune,” Rebecca Jung and Trebian Pollard’s bodies became indistinguishable. Their duet constantly challenged the audience to determine whose arms and legs belonged to whom. Next, the four male dancers appeared onstage in boxing shorts. With no musical accompaniment, they tumbled, flipped, lifted, carried, and tripped over each other in a rhythm held steady only by the pulse of their breathing.

Pilobolus’ final piece of the evening, “Day Two,” combined all of the elements that made their work so fascinating. Beginning with the simplest of movements, the piece evolved into a spectacle of creation. The performers bathed in the blackness of the dance floor. They worshiped the beams of the stage lights. The women lifted the men. The men carried the women on poles from which they swung like gymnasts on a trapeze or children in a tree. A dancer sprawled on the floor, legs to the ceiling, balancing his partner on the soles of his feet. The piece climaxed when the group crawled under the dance floor and ripped it open in a sudden burst of energy, as if emerging from the depths of the earth.

Pilobolus also made their work a study of the visual arts. Entwining their bodies into a whole, the results became sculptures. The male dancers wore only thongs and the two female dancers wore tiny leotards in the final piece. So amazing were their lifts, so masterful their choreography, so breathtaking their images, that the minimal costuming mattered very little. The piece could have been performed entirely in the nude. In some venues, “Day Two” is performed exactly that way.

Interestingly, the dancers who make up Pilobolus come from diverse dance backgrounds. Matt Kent is trained in ninjutsu. Rebecca Jung cites her movement experience in field hockey and physics among her dance influences. Each performer possessed his or her own individual style that radiated throughout the choreography. Unfortunately, Davidson was not able to offer Pilobolus the kind of large performing...Space that they deserved. Love Auditorium confined their movements and caused several lighting problems. Still, the company seemed undaunted by the space constraints and technical difficulties. Their show was highly energized, dynamic, and dramatic. When the dancers emerged from “Day Two,” sweating and panting, they still had the energy to throw themselves into a curtain call. The audience, having seized Pilobolus’ contagious energy, leapt to its feet for a standing ovation.

Charlotte Symphony Orchestra fills DCPC with Mostly Mozart
By STEVEN DUNCAN
Staff Writer

Last Tuesday, February 18, the Charlotte Symphony presented a concert in the ongoing Mostly Mozart series to an audience of students and community members in the DCPC sanctuary. Janna Hymes-Bianchi, Resident Conductor of the CSO, led the orchestra through a light-hearted program of music in the classical and baroque idiom.

Highlights of the concert began with J. S. Bach’s Brandenburg Concerto No. 4 in G major, BWV 1049. This work is one of six Brandenburg concerti composed at the court of Prince Leopold of Anhalt-Coethen, where Bach first began to turn his attention from the organ to the composition of instrumental music. Accordingly, these pieces are an exploration of orchestration, each featuring a small solo group, or concertino, which is set apart from the orchestra and continuo. The concertino of this particular work consists of two flutes, played by Jennifer Dior and Susanna Self, and violin, played by Sungil Lee, concertmaster of the CSO. Lee tore through the virtuosic passages of rapid arpeggios and double-stops, while the flutes held a musical dialogue, trading off melodic fragments to one another as they dipped their flutes in rhythmic unison.

Stravinsky’s Pulcinella Suite was the final and the most enjoyable piece of the evening. Inclusion of a 20th-century work in a Mostly Mozart program might surprise concert-goers, but the freedom from stylistic constraints in modern-day composition has allowed experimentation with early musical styles as well as with the avant-garde. Many composers hearken from romantic exaltation and serial incomprehensibility back to the diverting grace and symmetry of classical tonality and form. Based on melodies by the 18th-century composer Giovanni Pergolesi, the Pulcinella Suite combines the language of classicism with modern-day instrumentation, all filtered through the genius of Igor Stravinsky. This work contains brief solo passages for almost every instrument, and thus showcased the talent and skill of many CSO performers. Especially noteworthy was principal hornist Frank Portone’s playing. Portone showed great technical prowess in handling registral leaps, soaring gracefully up to startling melodic heights.

“Definitely the highlight of the evening,” emoted JC Carlson when asked about the work’s fifth movement, in which principal trombonist John Bartlett so effectively conveyed Stravinsky’s sparkling wit in a humorous solo filled with brash glissandi and fortissimo playing. Despite the $10 ticket price and the appalling lack of a student discount, most would agree the concert was well worth attending, given its convenient locale and the quality of the Charlotte Symphony’s performance.