_ THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

Taming the Commons Beast: The Pulper

A skeptical reaction to the new “environmentally friendly” practices of the Commons:

Waste disposal is not a pretty topic, but then neither is war, poverty, or crime.” So true. So begins a
flyer distributed to be a part of this trend. To decrease the amount of waste that the Commons sends to
the landfill, they bought the Pulper. The Pulper grinds paper waste and dehydrates it, thereby decreasing waste by 80%.

But— and here’s the catch—this voracious beast needs more trash than we have been producing to operate properly, so the
Commons says that we need to use paper cups instead of glass. What about the paper napkins? They say that,
since they are made of recycled paper, they are worthless for the Pulper’s needs as they “literally melt when subjected
to water.” That’s true! The other day I wiped my face with one and it completely disappeared! Neat trick. It’s
a good thing, too. You don’t want the napkins to actually work. You want them to look good, and they
do! I’m so glad they printed the Davidson logo on all of them. Otherwise, most of us would forget where
we go to school and forget one of the reasons why our families are paying over a tenth of a
million dollars for us to be here. Printed napkins are an important part of anyone’s education.

Anyway, magically, after the use of the Pulper, the 72 cubic yards of trash per week at the Commons fell
to the 16 yards of trash excreted by the Pulper. By my calculations, this is a truly impressive reduction of
77%. (Calculus, baby.)

There are a few problems with our current situation. One, if the Pulper needs paper cups, why have we been
using Styrofoam for the last two weeks? If they “see waste disposal as (their) social responsibility to protect our environment,”
why are they wasting even more materials by using Styrofoam (that, last time I checked, destroyed the ozone layer) for
ice cream, too? Two, the Pulper defies the laws of common sense. Essentially, the message is that we need to
create more waste to produce less. Huh?

The Commons may be concerned about the environment, but they seem to be going in entirely the wrong direction. The
Pulper may make sense in terms of the volume of trash sent to the landfill, but how is cutting down
more trees and creating more harmful compounds like Styrofoam for cups good for the environment? Is it just me, or
do glasses seem to be a more environmentally-friendly alternative? Glass is reusable and recyclable if necessary (although our recycling service
mysteriously does not accept glass).

As for the necessary fiber for the Pulper, we could kill two birds with one stone by...

Matthew HobbieSubstituting Honor Code infringers for the cups. That’s fiber for you! Thirdly, the disposable cups are not big enough
to wash down your delicious Commons sustenance. Expense may also be a factor in this discussion. It’s expensive to have
glasses. You have to pay someone to wash them and replace them when they break. At the same time, 100
paper or Styrofoam cups are probably sold for a penny. They also have to pay for fewer drinks since we’re
drinking them out of a bottle cap. But you know what? Quality costs. As far as I know, the price
of meal plans hasn’t gone down this year, but the quality of the dining experience has, and students have noticed.
The Commons staff is as sweet as ever and has nothing to do with this problem, unless “The Pulper” was
their idea. If you haven’t said hello to a friendly Commons worker today, you’re missing out. Nevertheless, while using small
disposable cups and putting our silverware in the pulper, we may soon hear this phrase: “Welcome to beautiful Chez Vail,
here’s your spork.” I’m telling you, it is on the way. Students, we must unite! After our quest is finished
and we have drunk the sweet nectar of victory (out of a glass), we can go celebrate at the Union,
a place that is more an idea than a building, where our unity can live and grow until our next
challenge appears. The unifying Union events this week are: Lunar Luau featuring the Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival with Mark Nizer
(The Bad Boy of Juggling), a Women’s Issues Committee organizational meeting, two screenings of the French film, “La Haine,” and
as always, Jumpin’ Java and Coffee House. Check your calendar for locations and times. Fight the good fight, and I'll
see you at the Union!

Buster speaks his mind, plugs his stuff

Ride the Vamanos Van, run for SGA, and make Buster's dreams come true. I hope that everyone at Davidson got
to ride the Vamanos Van this weekend. If you didn’t get a chance to, there’s always next weekend: Thursday through
Saturday, 7:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Once again, the van leaves from the front of Richardson Dorm every hour on
the hour, and it’s only a dollar each way anywhere in the greater Cornelius and Huntersville area. You can sign
up to run for an office on the SGA or the Honor Council in the Dean of Students office through
tomorrow by 5 p.m. There are six positions for the freshman class, six positions for independent senators, and three positions
open on the Honor Council for the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. There will be speeches this year for those
running for the SGA at 4:00 p.m. Sunday on the Chambers steps. There will be food and drinks there, and
I hope that you will come cheer on your friends as they rattle off two-minute speeches about what’s wrong with
the world, and how they’re going to fix it.

Ann Harriott Fisher and I went around to the freshman halls last week to inform them about the upcoming elections.
I lived on a freshman hall last year and knew my hall and their many visitors. But this year, as
we walked around, I was much more of an observer of the ways of the halls than a participant. Boys
hung around the doorframes, cold-chillin’ in and outside of the rooms (actually hanging from the door frames so that they
literally swung in and out), girls walked around the halls in search of that soccer guy from the Facebook or
just looked like they were looking for someone, and absolutely nothing had changed from when I was a freshman. Everyone
was having fun and looking out for their friends and their friends-with-benefits. I’ve always thought it’d be great to re-live
freshman year when GPAs and getting a job weren’t the biggest focus in life. People always say that they “wished
they were 18 again” (Jerry Lee Lewis and my father), but would they, you, me, want to relive it, knowing
that even the things that seem most earth-shattering freshman year or senior year or whenever, the things that are the
spice of life at the time, are very trivial, and even sometimes inconsequential, later in life? If I were to
do it all over again, would I not worry about everything that makes life worth it, because it doesn’t matter
later in life? What about worrying about meeting the right person or missing that opportunity? Who knows? And if I
just shaved off three years of my life to begin anew, why would I ever want to live through that
again without having the foresight of how to live it? All this stuff really kills me. If you don’t understand
what I’m talking about, pull me aside and ask me because it seems important, even though it’ll be inconsequential by
next week. All I really know is that the Union Board guys and gals are going to be wearing some
pretty sporty shirts this week in recognition of the Lunar Luau.
