THE DAVIDSONIAN

"Women’s soccer posts

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C. — It looked like 1992 all over again. Davidson goalkeeper Allie Noznesky led her team to a 1-1 draw against Furman Tuesday night in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament. The game was decided on penalty kicks to determine which team would advance to the semifinals. Noznesky did her best impression of Alex Deegan as she saved four out of five penalty kicks to lead her Wildcats squad to the semifinals against UNC Greensboro.

“Nobody touches the master,” said Noznesky of the Wildcat legend who led his team to the Final Four in 1992 by making incredible penalty-kick saves in the early rounds. After Kelly Rennick was ejected with her second yellow card, the Wildcats played most of the overtime periods with only 10 players. With that advantage, Furman assaulted the net but could not get the ball past Noznesky for the win.

In the shoot-out, Noznesky saved four of five kicks to set up the fifth and final shot for Angie Boyer, who put the ball past Paladin keeper Jen McNutt to clinch the win. The Wildcats started the game without starter Natalie Stumpf, who injured her knee in the 2-1 loss at Furman less than a week earlier. Furman outshot Davidson 10-5 in the first half, but there was no score at halftime. The Wildcats came out with a surge of intensity to start the second half. They outshot the Paladins 12-7 in the second stanza.

At the 54:29 mark, Rennick received her first yellow card for dissent. Less than ten minutes later, her roommate Amy Balsinger had a chance to put the Wildcats on top. Rhina Roberts was fouled inside the penalty area, giving Davidson a penalty kick. Balsinger’s kick hit the crossbar and went out of play over the goal to keep the game scoreless. With seven minutes to go in regulation, Kate McKnight gave the Wildcats a 1-0 lead when she sent a 25-yard shot over McNutt and off the crossbar on its way into the net.

But the Paladins countered in the final seconds, as Leah Versteegen scored a controversial goal to send the game into overtime. “It was not in,” said Boyer of the goal. “It was a foot away from it. It was not in. This just shows that we can come back after a bad call like that.” With the help of Rennick’s ejection, the Paladins outshot the Wildcats in the overtime periods. Noznesky made save after save to keep her squad alive.

“She was awesome,” said Boyer. “She’s the best keeper in the Southern Conference and we know it. We practice penalty kicks on her. We know if we can put goals in against her we can do it in the game.” That’s exactly what Boyer did on the fifth Davidson penalty kick of the shootout. Freshman Carrie Porath scored the other Wildcat goal on the first attempt. But Noznesky stole the show. She saved the first four kicks and had to overcome two consecutive calls by the referee that gave Diana Poore another chance to score. Each time Noznesky made the save.

“I thought I (moved early) on the first one,” Noznesky said of the calls. “I didn’t think I did on the second one.” “That is a lot of adversity there,” said coach Kevin Hundley. “That's up there with Deegan in the NCAA tournament back in ‘92.” “It’s been a tough year,” Hundley added. “It’s nice to have a good feeling (after the win).”

But Wildcats fall to nationally-ranked Spartans in semifinals

No one had been able to stop UNC Greensboro’s potent offense during the regular season, and Saturday’s semifinal against Davidson was no different. The Spartans scored three second-half goals to defeat the Wildcats 4-0 and advance to Sunday’s championship game against Wofford. UNCG won that game 9-0 to take the title in their first year in the Southern Conference.

Ali Lord scored at the 8:05 mark as she cashed in assists from Kati Kantanen and Shannon Carey. Davidson goalkeeper Allie Noznesky deflected the original shot from Kantanen, but Lord found the loose ball and sent it into the net for the 1-0 lead. The Wildcats had their chances at the end of the half, as Amy Kanoff made several corner kicks in the final minute. But Davidson could not convert, and the Spartans led 1-0 at the half.

UNCG’s offense put the game away in the second half as Danica Baker tucked a 25-yard shot into the side of the net at the 59:28 mark to give the Spartans a 2-0 lead. “We wanted to strike back after going down 2-0,” said Hundley, “and when we didn’t, we really could not do anything but score a token goal.” Kim Rosenberg increased the Spartan lead on a free kick at 68:39, followed by a Kantanen goal at 73:31 to secure the 4-0 victory. This final score was the closest game of the tournament for UNCG. They crushed East Tennessee St. 11-0 in the first round and won the championship 9-0 over Wofford Sunday.

The Davidson-N.C. State game was scheduled in the middle of the Southern Conference tournament, and all season it was unclear what purpose it would serve. Unclear, that is, until Tuesday’s game at Furman, when sophomore midfielder Kelly Rennick was ejected in the 96th minute after receiving her second yellow card of the game. Rennick would have to sit out the next contest, but because of the abnormal scheduling, she did not have to sit out a tournament match. But Rennick’s presence was missed Thursday, as North Carolina St. defeated the Wildcats 4-1 in their final game at Richardson Field. The Wolfpack struck quickly, as Jane Walton scored at the 9:17 mark to give State a 1-0 lead. The Wildcats held them to that score until there were just 37 seconds left in the half, when senior Stacey Hampton notched the Wolfpack’s second tally to give them a 2-0 halftime lead.Davidson’s goal came at the 73:15 mark as Leila Wormuth made a diving shot to cash in a loose ball in front of the goal. The game was technically the last home match for senior captains Allie Noznesky, Amy Kanoff, and Kelly Schmidt. Each player was honored before the game. “We will miss something from all three of them,” said Hundley, who gave flowers to his captains prior to kick-off.

Noznesky approaches Deegan’s level
By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C. — Goalkeeper Allie Noznesky saved four out of five penalty kicks in Tuesday night’s shoot-out victory over Furman in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament. She had to make three saves against one Paladin player because the referee called her for leaving the goal line too early not once, but twice. It meant she had to make three saves to get credit for one. If any of the three had gotten past her, the referee would have ignored the call and given Furman the goal.

Davidson’s Alex Deegan set the precedent for saving penalty kicks in 1992 when he saved five out of 10 shots against Coastal Carolina in the second round of the NCAA tournament. The Wildcats went on to the Final Four that year.

“Nobody touches the master,” said Noznesky after being compared to Deegan after Tuesday night’s game. Despite her incredible performance at Furman, she was not selected to the All-Conference team this season. Coach Kevin Hundley explained that the Wildcats’ strong schedule may have hurt his goalkeeper's chances. The league’s coaches cannot vote on their own players, and they tend to pick players based largely on statistics alone. “They get to see one game (against opposing players) and then see the stats,” Hundley said after Saturday’s loss to UNC Greensboro. With an easier schedule, Davidson’s players could build their statistics and improve their chances of making the All-Conference team. Nevertheless, sophomores Kelly Rennick and Ginny Dye were second-team All-Conference selections. Both players made all-conference as freshmen as well.

Thursday’s game against North Carolina St. was the last game at Richardson Field for the Wildcats’ senior captains. Noznesky, Amy Kanoff, and Kelly Schmidt were honored before the game. “They didn’t go out with a championship, but they won three,” Hundley said of the seniors’ three Southern Conference championships.

One shining moment for women’s soccer

Fall Classic from page 16

Taunted the Wildcats. Down a player, they were bombarded with shots throughout both overtime periods. But, as she had done in so many post-season games, Noznesky rose to the occasion, making five saves in the first 15-minute stanza, one from point-blank range. In the next segment, she tipped a speeding bullet over the crossbar with eight minutes left and then stopped another one-on-one attempt in the final two minutes. The winner — a misnomer, because the game is officially recorded as a tie — would be decided on alternating penalty kicks. Noznesky was Deegan-esque when she saved four of the five kicks. One kicker had three chances to score because Noznesky moved off the line too early. The referee made this bold call not once, but twice. Noznesky had to make three saves just to get credit for one. Up 1-0 going into the fifth and final round of kicks, Furman’s Christina Franks put the ball into the lower left corner of the net to keep the Paladins alive. McNutt, who had been quite stellar herself on this magical evening, would have to stop Angie Boyer to send the shootout to sudden-death. But Boyer also put it out of reach in the left corner, sending the Wildcats to the semifinals. Her teammates raced to meet her as they celebrated a well-deserved victory. This contest had been a microcosm of their entire season: A controversial goal in the final seconds, an ejection of an all-conference player, two saves that were negated by the referee in the shoot-out. But through it all, the Wildcats never stopped fighting. They played through pain and adversity. They survived, and earned the right to advance. It was only fitting that the loudspeakers played the theme song from ESPN’s SportsCenter as the Wildcats celebrated one of the most memorable Davidson soccer games since 1992.

GREENVILLE, S.C. — Two hours of soccer could not decide a winner, so Davidson and Furman had to sweat through a penalty-kick shootout to determine who would advance to the semifinals of the Southern Conference tournament.

Furman kicked first, with senior Liz Bielefeld sending a shot to the left side of the goal. Davidson goalkeeper Allie Noznesky dove to her right to make the save. The Wildcats sent freshman Carrie Porath to take their first shot. Paladin keeper Jen McNutt guessed wrong and watched as the shot went into the right side of the net. Furman freshman Diana Poore was stopped by Noznesky, but the referee called for a re-kick because Noznesky left the goal line too early. Again, Noznesky made a save, and again she was called for leaving too soon. Poore tried for a third time, but Noznesky stopped her yet again and the referee complied.

Kate McKnight came up next for the Wildcats. She sent a shot wide to the right, but the referee had not blown his whistle to signal that McNutt was ready in the goal. So she tried again and McNutt made the save. Furman sent another freshman, Sarah Tollick, up against Noznesky for its third kick. Noznesky made a diving save to her right to preserve the 1-0 Davidson lead. Amy Balsinger, who missed a penalty kick in regulation, was stopped again as McNutt dove to her left for the stop. Rather than go to Noznesky’s right for the fourth time in a row, Tracy Austin of Furman sent a shot high and up the middle. Noznesky leaped up and tipped it over the crossbar. Senior Amy Kanoff approached the ball next. A goal would clinch the victory for the Wildcats, but McNutt made a diving save to her left to keep the Paladins alive. Senior Christina Franks needed to score to stay in the game. Again, Noznesky dove to her right, but this time the shot was too accurate and the score was 1-1 with one shot left. Sophomore Angie Boyer waited several moments before McNutt was finally ready. A goal would end it. A save would send the shoot-out to sudden-death. Boyer ended it by sending the ball into the lower left corner of the goal and her team into the semifinals.

Jay CANTRELL