4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

By Mary Clare Jalonick
Editor Emerita

After one year of keeping their store open late, Cosmic Coffee owners Ed and Nancy Gray have shortened their hours.
They would like to keep it open later, but it simply wouldn’t be profitable for them. “Business was slow from
3 p.m. - 9 p.m.,” she says, “and if we got any business at night it was from 9 p.m.
- 10 p.m. It costs us $25 an hour per person working the counter, so we would have to get
$300 business in that one hour [to make ends meet]. Some stores on Main Street can make one sale and
their whole day is profitable. Our average sale is $1.87.”

The Grays have shortened their hours to 7:30 a.m. - 5 p.m., six days a week. Since this happened, they
have seen a rise in business. “We have seen more students during the daylight hours, and we have always had
support from faculty and staff,” she says. “We get classes in here sometimes. I think that’s good — it bridges
the gap of the unknown. If you can get them to come once, hopefully they will come again.”

However, she finds that a small percentage of transactions each day are made by students. “We average 15 students a
day. That is about 1% of the school.” She feels that a negative review that appeared in The Davidsonian during
their first month of business was a determining factor in student business. “I was naive enough to think that this
was just one person’s opinion, but it really hurt us. The article was angry because we don’t have smoking,” she
says. She defends her choice not to allow smoking because she says the smoke would adversely affect the coffee beans.
“We are not a bar,” she says.

Aside from that point, she is willing to meet with students and has discussed getting a group together with the
Dean of Students office. “Town people asked us for a beer and wine license and earlier hours. It took us
a while, but we finally got them.” She and her husband opened Cosmic Coffee after seeing a student survey that
unanimously called for a coffee shop. “When we opened the coffee house we thought it would be good for students.
But we should have done our homework. I was very surprised at how few students come here.”

Gray says that the shop has been doing better in recent weeks, but hopes that Davidson students will become more
of her business base. “It’s a symbiotic thing. I’m not angry, but frustrated. If not a coffee house, then what?
We won’t close if we get business. I don’t know what tomorrow will bring, but it does take business to
stay open.”

Stopping junk mail
EAC leads attack on unsolicited mailings

By Naresh Nagella
News Editor

Most of the junk mail that students receive will now stop taking up space in their post office boxes. The
Environmental Action Committee (EAC) in an effort to recycle unwanted trash at the post office, has obtained cards from the
Mail Preference Service in which students can request to delete their names from the mailing lists of many solicitors.

The effort came about in an effort by the committee to put the familiar recycling bins, seen everywhere else on
campus, in the post office. But contractual problems did not allow for the bins to be placed. The hauling company
that takes care of recycled materials on campus was not obliged to do the same for the post office. Now,
the plan is to “stop the junk mail before it becomes an issue,” according to Meredith Judy, head of the
EAC.

Junior David Jackson is happy about the new option. He says, “I usually never read or just throw away my
junk mail. Now, I will be happy knowing important letters do not get lost in Roses’ flyer.” Each U.S. household
usually averages 80 pounds of junk mail a year. Almost every bit is easily recyclable. So far 350 students have
filled out the cards that were offered. Still, Judy warns, the system is not perfect. She says, “It will only
eliminate 65% of the junk mail. So, it is still important to recycle.” Those students, faculty, and staff wanting a
card can call Meredith at x6588.

507 from page 1

Richards and Ward voted to grant the permit; Morrison, Howie, and Mittelman voted to deny the permit. In order to
win approval for a special use permit, four criteria must be met:

1. “The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety.”
2. “The use meets all required conditions and specifications.”
3. “The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining or abutting property.”
4. “The location and character of the use, if developed according to the plan...will be in harmony with the area.”

During a meeting of the Board, concerned parties are invited to offer their opinions on the proposed permit. Collins represented
the College, because he was most familiar with the technical alterations made to the house which other town ordinances had
required, such as the conversion of a partial bath into a full one. Several town residents, both the owners of
property adjacent to 507 Concord and owners of property next to College-owned property, testified at the meeting. According to the
meeting minutes, Director of Development for the College Kevin McCarthy of 520 Concord Road and Ann Conger also of Concord
Road, both owners of properties adjacent to 507 Concord Road, spoke in opposition to the special permit.use permit. Other members
of the community voiced concerns about the College moving students off-campus and into the community, but the meeting minutes do
not recognize any of them as being opposed to the permit. Their concerns focused on the precedent granting the permit
by the Board would set and the possibility that the College would move more students into College-owned houses throughout town.
(The meeting minutes, compiled by Keane, paraphrase the statements of those who testify. However, all quotations in this article reflect
the exact contents of the meeting minutes.)

According to the minutes, McCarthy “was sworn in to speak in opposition to the special use permit.” He pointed out
that by moving eight students into the house before having permission to do so “the college was making the request
after-the-fact.” “Mr. McCarthy was concerned that approval of this special use permit would set a negative precedent. He stated that
the college owns houses throughout Davidson and may in the future want to house other students off-campus,” according to the
minutes. McCarthy expressed his belief that students could disrupt the quiet nature of Concord Road in the evenings. The minutes
state that McCarthy thought the presence of eight students would alter the “character of the street.” According to the minutes,
“Mr. McCarthy said that the college should not be treated differently than any other property owner in Town. Ordinances should
apply to the college as they do to other residents.”

In two interviews, McCarthy stated that he was not against the students being allowed to stay for the semester. “I
don’t have any problem with a four-month stay,” he says. “I think they should have been allowed to stay.” McCarthy
says that each person at the meeting was polled about whether the permit should be granted, and, McCarthy states, everyone
including himself was for the permit. “I was not opposed to the waiver, and I went on record as saying
that,” McCarthy says. McCarthy thinks the College handicapped its proposal by requesting the special use permit after the students were
moved in. “When you go to the Board after the fact, that doesn’t look right,” he says. He also wonders
why other administrators did not testify. Three members from RLO, Assistant Director of Residence Life Beth Bell Searcy, Residence Life
Coordinator Vicki Stellcup, and Facilities and Housing Operations Coordinator Debby Young, were all present but did not get sworn in
to testify. According to McCarthy, they had ample opportunity to do so. He also thinks that they may have been
able to provide information the Board requested with which Collins is not familiar. Holmes was out of town for the
hearing.

Conger, according to the minutes, “was sworn in to speak in opposition to the special use permit.” The minutes note
her concerns as traffic, noise, and a potential for the devaluation of surrounding properties. Conger stressed in a telephone interview
that her opposition was “nothing personal against the students.” She feared that granting the permit would establish a “precedent” of
the College moving students into the community. “The College should have notified the residents and gotten permission first,” she says.

Ward did note that McCarthy and Conger made the “most objections” to granting the permit. Collins and Keane also stated
that these two residents were against the granting of the permit. According to Keane, the testimony of affected residents can
sway the vote of the Board of Adjustment. Howie said in a phone interview that the testimony of McCarthy and
Conger heavily influenced his decision. “My first concern is the peoples’ responses most closely affected by the special use.... If
people affected are concerned, I am very sensitive to that,” he says. According to the minutes, Howie also thought that
not all of the criteria for granting the permit were met. Specifically, the minutes state that he did not think
“points number 1, 3, and 4” had been satisfied.

Ward, on the other hand, was not disturbed by the College’s application. “It’s not uncalled for in this situation,” he
said in a phone interview. Ward dismissed the notion that granting the permit would set a precedent. At the meeting
during the Deliberation phase of the procedure, the minutes note him expressing that “precedence is irrelevant. If the College returns
later for another special use permit at this location or any other location, the Board of Adjustment would be able
to deny that request if the circumstances and facts warrant.” In a phone interview Ward said, “I knew the College
had done this in tight spots before, and it did not continue.... I don’t think this is a trend. I
don’t think there was a better place to house the students.”

The miscalculations - Holmes and Collins both acknowledge that they should have spoken to more adjacent property owners before the
students moved in. “Our mistakes were not talking to all those neighbors,” Holmes says. “But I don’t know if that
would have changed anything.” Collins confirms that Town Administrator Leamon Brice suggested to him that the College announce to the
neighbors that students would be moving in before January 13. However, Collins feared that “door-knocking” would “incite” the neighbors against
the permit. “Some folks don’t like to be bothered,” he says. Holmes spoke only with Women’s basketball coach Jon Filar
and his wife, Kay, who live at 515 Concord Road. Filar says that he “appreciated being informed.” He was comforted
to know that there would be an RA in the house and that the students would have to follow College
housing regulations.
