A plethora of musical genres hit the airwaves every Sunday on WALT 1610 AM. Like any radio station, WALT has a rotation list from which one song every 15 minutes must be played. Anything outside of these four songs is up to the disc jockey. The specialty shows, however, have a defined theme or genre, so they don’t have to play anything from the rotation list. Free from the constraints of a regular show, the specialty shows range from classic jazz and Americana to hard-core and Britpunk. This week’s focus is on the Sunday night line-up: “Classic Jazz” with John Paulas (8:00-9:00 p.m.), “Britpunk” with Abigail Bergsma and Norrie Herrin (10:00-12:00 p.m.), and “Hard Core” with Will White and Scott Hutchins (12:00-1:00 a.m.).

It is little surprise that John Paulas, known campus-wide for his resonant bass voice, has his own radio show. Paulas presents “Classic Jazz.” Paulas took to jazz as a kid growing up in New York, listening to the radio, as well as old records. In fact, his show’s music is supplied entirely from his own collection. Paulas’ show, along with a variety in sound quality provided by the old records versus CDs, spans a wide range of classical jazz beginning with Scott Joplin in the 1890s and early ragtime to stride piano and the modal jazz of the 1950s. Despite the wide range of the show, his focus is on piano jazz. He plays selections from jazz greats including Fats Waller, Art Tatum, Oscar Peterson, George Gershwin, and Bud Powell. Paulas doesn't model his show on anyone, but admits to the influences of unforgettable jazz disc jockeys, such as the “Purple Grotto.” “He was just whacked out, in a purple cave, with mushrooms growing all over,” Paulas said. His original intentions for the show were to make a Peter Shikey-style show, designed to “teach the classical listener something about the music,” according to Paulas. But he abandoned the format after it became tedious. He now aims for “lots of jazz and little talk.” Paulas also broadcasts special editions of his show including a show on Dixie Jazz, the New Orleans original marching music, and Washboard Jazz, which used washboards for percussion. His show includes a range of jazz that most stations ignore when only focusing on modern jazz, brought on by a personal passion. “It’s some of my favorite music,” Paulas said, “so I want to share it with the folks at Davidson.”

“Britpunk” is presented by Abigail Bergsma and Norrie Herrin. Bergsma and Herrin met on the Davidson in India program and discovered that they had a lot in common — namely music. Their show features a combination of techno and hard core and Brit Pop. Bergsma said that she has always found British popular music more interesting and has followed it from the Beatles to the present. Their diverse show plays everything from Brit Pop featuring the Beatles, Smiths, David Bowie, Blur, Suede, and Radiohead to current techno and electronic hard core. They try to focus on the current, but Bergsma said she tries to throw in some oldies like Elvis Costello from time to time. They also include American bands that fit the genre such as Blondie, the Ramones, and the Talking Heads — American punk of the 70s. Bergsma said that she likes to play British Glam (not to be confused with American Glam Rock of the early eighties). She described British Glam as “music I am almost embarrassed by how much I like it,” characterized by its dramatic staginess. These bands are great in concert and even stagey when simply on the radio. Admittedly shy on the air, Bergsma said they don’t talk much and “if someone wants to know the name of a song, they can call in.”

The “Eighties Extravaganza” (3:00-4:00 p.m.) is presented by Spanky and D-licious, two senior athletes who wish to have their identity remain concealed. They started out together on a regular show, sharing similar tastes in music, and they meshed so well that they decided to strike out on their own with a specialty show. They enjoy the unregulated freedom of the specialty show. Spanky said that they are never at a loss of something to play. They enjoy the show as a way to relax and for at least one hour of a normally hectic Davidson week. Spanky said that they try to strike up nostalgia from the 80s and childhood. They play stuff that everyone liked at some point, including Milli Vanilli and New Kids on the Block. They evenplay 80s Glam rock. “Come on, admit it, you used to buy this stuff,” Spanky said. They play the artist formerly known as Prince, Paula Abdul, and Bel Biv Devoe, early Rap including Run DMC, and early Madonna—a favorite of D-licious’. They basically play what Spanky describes as Davidson 80s—“the stuff you hear all the time,” such as “Come on Eileen.” Since both are athletes, they try to promote sports events on campus and even brought up the sorority issue, though few people called in with a response.

Will White and Scott Hutchins, the hosts of “Hard Core” (12:00-1:00 a.m.), try to stretch the limits of their freedom by being as loud and offensive as possible. They play punk rock and digital hard core. White describes their music as offensively loud as well as relatively explicit. Some of their most frequently played music comes from hard core greats such as Atari Teenage Riot. Their set ranges from early 80s punk from the Dead Kennedys to the more contemporary Tool. They claim to play loud and less popular music. White suspects that the show doesn’t have many listeners, but they enjoy it regardless. Of course, they welcome any feedback and calls for requests. Their mission is to offer a forum for hard core music that is hard to find elsewhere, and provide some air play for a genre that appeals to a minority of fans. They do get call-ins, especially from their five most loyal fans. Once someone called in impersonating an offended regulator and forced them to play Tiny Tim.

On a different note, Tom Knowles presents “Blues” (4:00-6:00 p.m.), which differs from Jazz with its telltale 1-4-5 chord progression, for those who understand the lingo. He features BB King, Muddy Waters, and a “whole lot of soul.” His repertoire ranges from the late 20s and early 30s, the oldest performer being Robert Johnson, “King of the Delta Blues,” to the present with the 16-year-old guitarist, Jonny Lang. Knowles’s show flows around two types of Blues—acoustic and electric. He starts off with the acoustic and flows to the electric. His show always has a controlled progress—no random mix. If he starts with Eric Clapton playing Freddy King, the next song will be a Freddy King original. Knowles also plays blues from mainstream artists, like Jimi Hendrix who, as few people know, played blues as well as acid rock. Knowles tries to keep his listeners informed with a little history behind the music, and its significance. He is always happy to take requests. Knowles first got interested in blues through his guitar teacher and finds “nothing as soulful as good blues.”

By ANNE STANCIL
Staff Writer

The Davidson Jazz Ensemble captivated students and their parents with swingin’ tunes Friday night. Under the direction of Bill Lawing, chair of the Music Department, the 16-member group performed 11 jazz and Big Band charts. Encompassing a wide variety of styles and eras, the jazz ensemble included hits from Count Basie and Benny Goodman, to name a couple.

Jazz Ensemble rocks 900 Room
Swingers treated to a rare performance on Halloween night

All members displayed their improvisational skills and musical wit, delivering a stellar blend of woodwind, brass, and rhythm. This performance was a rare treat for the campus because the Jazz Ensemble only comes together a few times during the year. The annual Spring Break tour is their biggest gig. For a week the ensemble travels to various spots around the country showcasing their musical flair. Last year the ensemble was right at home in New Orleans, the birthplace of jazz. Halloween night brought out the ensemble’s ghoulish grooves. They were definitely “In the Mood” for haunts and harmony. Even the guy from Scream stopped by to chime in on bass trombone. Lawing even donned a “jazzy” green wig to direct the last number, a Benny Goodman favorite. A definite treat for all, the Davidson Jazz Ensemble tickled the audience with musical tricks and style.

SPEND YOUR SUMMER IN THE COLORADO ROCKIES
Experience the outdoors and help create memories at the King Mountain Ranch Resort. For an application and our summer job openings call 800-476-5464 or E-mail at hosts@kingranchresort.com

UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD
GREAT BRITAIN
COSTA RICA
Fall, Spring or Full Year. Scholarships Available.

Study Abroad Information Session:
Steve Seaworth of ISA and Marita Foster of University College Cork
Date: Wednesday, November 5
11:30 — 1:30
At Table College Union

For further information contact the Institute for Study Abroad, Butler University, 4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208, Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLER UNIVERSITY