Refusing to let 'em back! I haven’t been regular for a while — with my writing, that is — and
it’s good to be back in the flow. I’ve just been so busy with my new responsibilities, now that I
am royalty, that I just haven’t had time — to write. Carrie Van Deest, my Homecoming Queen, and I have
been at every parade for miles around waving from the convertibles. We have also been giving inspirational speeches in the
public schools to show that public school products can actually get somewhere in life. To see those kids’ eyes light
up when they see the Dalmatian-fur rim of my crown warms my fuzzy. I have had time to read the
Davidsonian, however, and Naresh Nagella’s Op-Ed column entitled “I got a good haircut, and it’s not because of the way
it looks” (Nov. 4) was especially interesting to me. Nagella wrote about getting his haircut at Raeford’s Barber Shop on
Main Street. He related his good feelings about “how good a slower and smaller life can be.” He spent two
hours in Raeford’s. He talked with all types of people in a relaxed atmosphere, laughing at those impatient ones who
chose to drive to Charlotte for their haircut. According to Naresh, “The result was pleasing.” Nagella raves about the slow
way of life symbolized by Raeford’s shop and then draws this conclusion: “I guess it left me a little disappointed
about the future. As computers get faster, technology becomes more and more omnipresent, and everything becomes quicker, ‘Raeford’s way of
life’ will probably disappear. But such is the price we pay for progress which should continue.” He seems to regard
the “slower and smaller life” as something quaint that unfortunately must die. What a shame. I cannot be as nonchalant
about its death. I cannot sacrifice it for “the slow lane efficiencies and economy of the future.” Are you satisfied
with the way things are going? Nagella’s experience caused him “to rethink the apparent ‘illogic’ behind a 120-minute haircut.” Should
we not also rethink the apparent “logic” behind our American lifestyle? As part of Into the Streets weeks, as if
it were the only way. Who do we think we are? We’re exporting nuclear power technology to China when we
haven’t even figured out how to deal with the waste it produces. We teach others to work more quickly and
be more productive when our own over-productivity causes stress-related diseases, diseases that kill. Our use-once-and-throw-away mentality produces more waste than
any other nation, and yet we will not rest until there is a McDonald’s on every corner of every street
around the world. At Davidson, do our classes reinforce this life or call it into question? Does the school care
about your health — mental, physical, and spiritual? Or is it indoctrinating you for the rat race? I am deeply
concerned for our nation, our world, and our campus. Our consumerism, our materialism, and our fast-paced life are killing us.
Why are we in such a hurry? Where are we racing to — other than our deaths? This week, along
with me, stop a moment, take a deep breath, and truly think about the way you are living. Unlike Nagella,
I do not believe “the price we pay for progress” should be paid. I do not think that the gains
will outweigh the losses. Our progress is often “regress.” I refuse to let “Raeford’s way of life” die. I, too,
was in Raeford’s the other day for a “120-minute haircut.” While there, Demian Dellinger and I remarked as well on
the different mentality of the barber shop. Instead of talking about its death, we talked about how we were going
to live our lives to make our world more like Raeford’s. I'll take my cue from President Vagt’s inauguration address.
I am going to be an idealist. I’m going to change the world. Who’s with me? The newness of college
has finally worn off and in its place is an accelerator. Just touch that pedal, and you will send yourself
hurtling toward a wall. The wall is the passage of time, and it sneaks up on you pretty quickly. The
naiveté of being a freshman has worn off. We know how to get our mail and where to sit at
football games. We are now Davidson students. We can no longer be considered new in our classes as the first
semester begins its inexorable wind-down toward Dec. 18 (with some aggressive scheduling, some of you more adventuresome types will see
it wind down to the 16th). “That’s the way we did it in high school” no longer applies to anything
except whining. Our college professors have proven themselves the equals — and often the betters — of our high school
instructors. Even I am being won over by Dr. Bivens’ subtle tricks in Calculus, although I’m not quite ready to
let go of all of my old methods. This realization that we are really where we are just hit me
about a week ago. I was taking a few minutes to see where the next few weeks would be taking
me in the way of workload and assignments. I saw a series of four weeks comprised of work without respite.
Merciless heaps of tests and papers, great dumps of projects and presentations, huge morasses of quizzes and labs. With a
few exceptions, the last months have lulled us into a false sense of security. The abundant out-of-class time of college,
when compared with high school, has led us to the false assumption that we can goof around for a while
and still get everything done. The next weeks will show us the error of our ways. That wall of reality
is for us right now a wall of work. On the other side is blessed hindsight that will allow us
to see what we did well and poorly on our various exams. On this side is that cursed foresight called
worry. I read a quotation the other day that said “Worry is just imagination misused.” If thatis true, I know
of quite a few people, including myself, who could use a crash course in imagination. Tragic fears and worries seem
to be so much more accessible to our minds than justified fears or pleasant hopes for the future. The freshman
wall is not reserved just for that august body. There is a form of it specific and special for each
of our four years in college and for almost every other year in our life. The only exceptions to this
are those first years of our early lives when we can’t wait for time to hurry up and let us
grow up. Having not experienced any of the other “walls” of college, I can only speculate about their appearance or
properties. Those of you reading this probably know more of the specific traits of all those walls better than me.
I'll let you fabricate your own hopes and, unfortunately, your own fears.

When I got through my senior year of high school last spring, I thought that time would run much more
slowly after that. I saw college as a monolithic slab of four years stretching to infinity. My memory must have
been pretty short because the four years before high school had seemed exactly the same. Yet that time seemed to
go by at breakneck speed. I can begin to see the same disturbing trend here at college. Time seems to
go faster when you are having fun. That being the case, I need to start having a real terrible time
so that it will last longer. The inverse relationship between time’s passage and enjoyment level is one of the most
fascinating questions. Perhaps this article will goad someone into research regarding it. Physics majors, I’m talking to you. They’re probably
too busy speeding toward their own late-semester wall to do any research anyway. Brace yourself for impact, Davidson. Time marches
ever forward.

Swede defends Public Display of Affection

The opening of Mary Perrin Anderson’s Op-Ed article in the Nov. 11 issue of the Davidsonian reads: “PDA. We’ve all
seen it, been shocked by it, and had nightmares as a result of it.” PDA. I’ve seen it, rarely if
ever been shocked by it, and certainly not had nightmares because of it. Public Display of Affection should be advocated,
not castigated. Somehow the term has emerged with a negative connotation from deep within ourselves and our Puritanical past. Georgia
Ringle has been telling freshman halls for years that she hopes to see more overt acts of devotion between couples
on campus. Perhaps we should listen to the “Sex Lady” instead of giggling to hide our own sexual insecurities.

The reference to Europe in the article is extremely inappropriate and I was personally offended by it. Evidently, Anderson has
traveled extensively through Europe and has witnessed an infinite amount of seemingly vulgar and tasteless PDA. European society is viewed
by Americans as more decadent than that of the United States, and more specifically, the Southeastern states. With the re-emergence
of politics of “family values” and the growing influence of the Christian Coalition in America, it is essential that a
more liberated and sexually free group counteracts. Our parents and professors secretly make fun of us because they know they
had more fun at our age. Expressing sexuality and openly indulging in desire should be viewed as natural, not immoral.

Anderson offers a disclaimer in her article regarding “hooking up on the Court,” which is, according to her, not to
be perceived as an improper PDA. Apparently, it is acceptable for students to exchange beer-laden saliva in a state of
delirious drunken bliss in the corner of a fraternity house while uncouth for a (presumably sober) couple to lovingly engage
in PDA on a municipal bench. Do I fail to understand Anderson’s rationalizations? At Davidson during PiKA’s Glamrock, women can
dress provocatively without being perceived as promiscuous by their peers. If Maggie Avery, however, chooses to unbutton her shirt on
a steamy night at another Court party to reveal a sexy brassiere, everyone stares. Is hypocrisy the prevailing theme of
social and gender relations at Davidson College?

Anderson admits (in regard to the youths on the bench beside the fountain) “I wasn’t annoyed, just a little taken
aback.” If you were merely taken aback, would it have taken too much effort to avert your eyes and focus
your energies on yourself and your friend? A gesture of love which evokes pleasure in the partakers should not be
ruined by a presumptuous stranger. Where does one draw the line between which sort of PDA is admissible and which
is uncouth? There should be no boundaries; those who indulge in PDA should use their own discretion. I highly doubt
that there is recurrent PDA at “religious ceremonies.” Wouldn't it be wonderful if sexual orgies and displays of not only
affection but desire were ubiquitous? It would almost certainly ease the daily monotony of walking down the street.

The most disturbing aspect of Anderson’s article is her supercilious assertion of American and Texan pride and connections with traditions
of the past. In general, the United States is socially freer than most nations. The tendency towards an “anticulture” is
increasing, and social etiquette has diminished considerably in prevalence. Americans are generally inclined to judge less on appearance, whereas the
social trend in Europe is reversed. Students at Davidson, for example, are generally not disturbed at seeing others wearing shorts
and soccer sandals in the middle of November. Where in Europe do university students run 400’s naked on a weekly
basis, walk around bearing only a towel, loofah, and flip-flops on Oct. 31 (power to the bold freshman), or frolic
about without clothing in the snow in order to seek admission to a designated club? America is teeming with insouciant
people wearing what they choose to wear and doing what they choose to do. Occasionally citizens may turn their heads
at a presumed freak, but the relative reaction in Europe would be much more severe.

Did she truly believe that the youths engaged in PDA on the corner of the street learned a lesson from
the pedantic “little blonde shaking her fist and hanging out the window of a red Jeep” yelling “this ain’t Europe!?”
Yes, Anderson is correct. This is not Europe, but unfortunately, she does not know how Europe really is.
