DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Men’s hoops buries Keydets sans Cisco
By DANIEL MOTZ
Staff Writer

LEXINGTON, Va., Feb. 17 - In a game played without leading scorer Narcisse Ewodo, Davidson defeated Va. Military, 97-77, recording
the program’s 1,000th victory. Mark Donnelly paced the Wildcats with 20 points and six rebounds. David Burns, starting in place
of the ailing Ewodo, added 18, and Billy Armstrong had his finest game as a Wildcat, scoring 13, grabbing five
rebounds, and dishing out four assists.

“With the style of play we use, we need to have depth,” said Armstrong. “At the beginning of the season,
we didn’t play well. But now, the bench is really stepping up.”

Indeed. In the past three games, the bench quartet of Armstrong, Burns, Stephen Marshall, and Davour Halbauer has averaged an
astonishing 43 points a game. Against VMI, the bench helped the Wildcats build a 44-28 halftime lead and extended it
to a 64-43 margin with 12:21 to play. But the Keydets responded. Backed by perhaps the most raucous crowd in
the Southern Conference, the 1,804 uniformed students helped VMI compile a 28-10 run, and a Darryl Faulkner three-pointer cut the
Davidson lead to 74-71 with 6:20 remaining.

But the Wildcats (16-9, 9-4 SC) responded with two Ali Ton free throws and a beautifully executed back-door play. “They
(VMI) were gambling like heck, and we usually have the ability to recognize that,” said coach Bob McKillop. “Mark made
a great cut and Landry was able to find him.”

Davidson finished the game with a 23-6 run to give the Wildcats the rout. “As bad as it was for
us to lose a lead that big, it was a great opportunity for us to get better because we’ve been
in that situation twice to Marshall when we’ve lost big leads and just folded,” said Donnelly. “Tonight we made a
stand in a rough environment and we came up big.”

Faulkner, suffering from the flu, played inspired basketball, scoring 30 points for VMI - including 24 in the second half
- hauling in six rebounds and distributing four assists. “He played a very hard-nosed basketball game,” said VMI coach Bart
Bellairs. “He’s the best point guard in the league, that’s for sure.”

Ton continued his consistent play, scoring five points and dishing out eleven assists. He also had a key offensive rebound
to thwart the late Keydet run. The win was encouraging for the Wildcats who, along with the additions of Ben
Ebong and at least two freshmen, played with next year’s team. “That was the first time next year’s team was
on the floor and it was encouraging that we came together,” said Donnelly. “Whenever we faced adversity this year, we’ve
stepped up.”

By BOB LONERGAN
Staff Writer

The wrestling team had its best match of the year at the right time. In Saturday’s home meet, the team
scorched Longwood College, showing improvement from their previous match three weeks earlier, which Davidson lost, 21-15. “That had to be
the best, most exciting match we have had in ten years,” coach Tom Oddo explained. “I told the guys that
all we needed was for one guy who lost last time to come back and beat their man for us
to be successful.”

Oddo had plenty of wrestlers step up to the challenge. Kevin Smith (126 lbs.) defeated his opponent after losing three
weeks ago. Jake Hamilton (177) also pinned Longwood’s captain for his first win against him in four career tries. Ian
Kaplan continued his success by pinning the other Sterling, Tom Greene, and Ben Wall thrashed their opponents by a combined
score of 28-5.

“Basically, this time around we wrestled ten times better,” added Oddo. “Every single guy wrestled better, and I could not
imagine us having a better match to get the guys pumped up for the upcoming conference meet (this weekend in
Greensboro).”

Track from page 14
Sawyer, Schaap Freeman, Beth Goldstein, and Lara Burkholder teamed up to set a new Davidson record in the 4x400 relay
(4:17.51). Allie Curran notched two great performances in the 3000 and 5000. In the 3000, she placed 10th overall with
a time of 11:00.62. Her 18:49.88 5000 run was good enough for 9th. Women’s coach Beth Puckett was encouraged by
the meet. “It was a good showing for us, the women ran very competitively. They’ll be ready for the outdoor
season.”

By DANIEL MOTZ
Staff Writer

Cindy McCauley scored 19 points to lead Marshall to a 67-66 victory over Davidson on Saturday to ruin the Wildcats’
Senior Day. With the loss, Davidson concluded the regular season.Season with a 15-10 overall record and a 7-7 mark in
the Southern Conference. The defeat also sends the Wildcats to Statesboro, Ga., as they play against Ga. Southern in the
first round of the conference tournament for the right to go to Greensboro. Before the game on Saturday, there was
a pre-game ceremony honoring seniors Carolyn Kirsch, Monica Winter, and Amy Scalcucci. But it was McCauley who stole the show.
She drained five three-pointers, none bigger than a trey with 1:39 remaining to give Marshall (15-11, 9-5) their first lead
since the first half at 65-64. McCauley’s basket capped a 14-2 run and gave the Thundering Herd the lead for
good, as Marshall faced a 62-51 deficit with 5:07 to play.

“The three-pointer McCauley hit was a dagger,” said Davidson head coach John Filar. “If she hits a two, it’s tied.
But as soon as the basket went in, our team felt that we had to come all the way back
after leading almost the whole way.”

“In the first three-quarters of the game, I think Davidson outplayed us and outhustled us,” said Marshall coach Sarah Evans-Moore.
“Our kids finally realized that we needed to step up and play a little more intense.”

Davidson built a 37-30 halftime lead behind ten points from Jennifer Sanborn. In the first half, she was four-of-five from
the field and a perfect two-of-two beyond the three-point arc. The Thundering Herd tied the game at 46 with 12:07
remaining, but the Wildcats went on a 16-5 spurt over the next seven minutes to take the seemingly secure 11-point
lead.

“We refuse to do anything the easy way,” said Filar. “We made errors down the stretch that we had no
business making, and at the same time Marshall got hot, we got cold.”

Down 65-64, Monica Winter missed two crucial free throws. Marshall’s Michelle Lenhart followed with two foul shots to give the
Thundering Herd a three-point lead. Jen O’Brien hit a pair of free throws for the Wildcats with seven seconds left
to cut the Marshall lead to one. But following a McCauley missed foul shot on the front end of a
one-and-one, a desperation shot by Scalcucci rimmed out to give Marshall the win.

In a clash between possible conference players of the year, Kristina Lenhart, who tallied 16, held Kirsch to 12 points
on just 5-of-16 shooting. “Carolyn is due to miss a few shots,” said Filar. “We would not even be close
to the position we are in without her.” Indeed. While Saturday may have left a bitter taste in the seniors’
mouths, the impact that Kirsch, Winter, and Scalcucci had on this program will not be forgotten.

Moc comeback drops women’s hoops
By AARON DUNHAM
Staff Writer

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. Feb. 17 - Back in January, the Davidson women’s basketball team scored two baskets in the final four
seconds to edge UT-Chattanooga. Monday in Chattanooga, the Mocs were determined not to fall in the final seconds again, rallying
from a five-point deficit late in the game to force overtime before pulling out an 82-74 victory.

The loss put Davidson (14-9, 6-6 SC) into a fourth-place tie with Ga. Southern, a team the Wildcats defeated on
the same road trip. UTC (11-13, 5-7), meanwhile, recorded their second straight upset, having knocked off Furman two nights before.

The Wildcats led throughout the game and survived most of the UTC runs. Davidson took an early 23-12 lead before
UTC answered with a 23-12 run of their own to tie the game at halftime. The game went back and
forth for ten minutes in the second half before Davidson built a five-point margin with 1:35 remaining. With Davidson unable
to convert on two possessions, the Mocs used a three-point play from Carlise Oglesby and a bucket by Spring Thompson
to force overtime.

In the extra period, UTC dominated. Davidson did not make a field goal in overtime until Amy Scalcucci hit a
three-pointer with less than a minute to go. “We just lost it after the two-minute mark,” said coach John Filar.

Not to be overshadowed in the loss was senior forward Carolyn Kirsch who broke the school’s all-time scoring record with
a putback at the 11:47 mark in the first half. “This was a great night for Kirsch. She has gotten
herself very focused this year,” said Filar. “She knows how important every one of these last games are.” Kirsch paced
the Wildcats with 23 points. Jamie Brown added 16 in the defeat.

VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
Charlotte: 507 Providence Rd. • 333-1008
The Arboretum • 543-6333
Davidson: 202 So. Main St. • 892-0604
Myrtle Beach: Broadway at the Beach • 444-1074
