The SGA voted Tuesday to allocate $700 from its special projects fund to help finance the Films Committee’s presentation of
this spring’s African-American Film Festival. Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Minority Student Affairs Ernest Jeffries also pledged to
aid the Committee by allocating as much as $200 from the Dean of Students Office budget. The African-American Film Festival
marks the third annual spring festival in a line which has included the Women’s and International Film Festivals in the
past. Chair of the Films Committee Jenny Nolan said that, in the spirit of the spring festivals, this was the
next logical step. “We put on the festival with the intent of bringing people and their experiences together,” she said.
“We hope many will be enriched by this spring’s film festival.” Nolan wrote to 24 organizations, imploring them to lend
even minimal support to the Festival. So far, SGA and the Dean of Students Office are the only organizations who
have responded favorably — or at all — to her request. The Committee still needs approximately $2,100 to cover bar,
tech, African-American Film Festival publicity, and shipping costs. Film reels typically cost between $250 to $550. A list of films
was generated by the Committee and narrowed to 10 by Assistant Professor of History Barbara Ballard. The selection was then
finalized by the BSC Special Events Committee. Films on the schedule for the February festival include “Malcolm X,” “Rosewood,” “Secrets
and Lies,” “The Color Purple,” “Daughters of the Dust,” “Shaft,” “Love Jones,” and “Friday.” The films will be shown during
the weeks spanning Feb. 8-20. Speakers will facilitate discussion after several of the films, including Dean Jeffries following “Love Jones.”
Nolan pointed out that it would be easy for the Films Committee to offer blockbuster or independent films exclusively, but
she hopes that by branching out, she can lend even more validity to Union programming and further campus enrichment. “We
need visible campus support for the Festival,” Nolan said. “It educates and challenges the community to address the issues we’re
aware of, but perhaps don’t confront on a regular basis. The Festival embraces solidarity and learning.”

Jessica GOODSON

Davidson College Police Blotter

Over the course of this semester, campus police have picked up numerous unregistered bikes across campus. Although many of these
bikes have been claimed, almost a dozen remain with the department. Lt. David McLaurin asks that any student who left
his or her bike unregistered and has found that bike missing to please come and inquire about it in the
campus police station located behind Johnston Gym.

Circuits cut to Richardson Field, cops point out strange connections

On Nov. 5 at 3:35 p.m., the valadine circuit feeder wires were cut with electrical tools. These wires are located
along the stadium’s main tunnel and gate access area and power the key-card locks to the stadium and other devices
inside. Southern Bell was called out to find and fix the problem. Estimation of damage stands at $100. This crime
seems to be more than just a simple get-drunk-cut-stuff crime, considering the power wires to a Jackson Court office were
cut in a very similar fashion on Oct. 23.

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

The advertisements read, “‘Sexual Etiquette’: Dr. Robert Hatcher, director of the Family Planning Clinic at Grady Hospital and co-author of
Contraceptive Technology, gives a frank, humorous talk emphasizing healthy sexuality and responsibility to oneself and one’s partner.” Students and employees
of the College filled most of the seats in the Union 900 Room last Monday evening to hear the Emory
professor speak for the second time that day. After an enthusiastic introduction by Eleanor Hatcher, Robert Hatcher began his speech
with a brief summary of his background. A Williams College graduate, Hatcher has been teaching “Sexual Etiquette 101” seven times
a year for 18 years to Georgia-Tech students. He then progressed to his message. “Sex is a big, big deal,”
Hatcher said. “It’s also a very tough subject to talk about.” Silence about the subject, however, can lead to what
Hatcher referred to as “the four H’s”: HIV, Hepatitis B, herpes, and HPV, or human papillomavirus. HPV, Hatcher said, is
like the chicken pox. Since the virus is always present, it can recur years later. HPV is also a known
cause of cancers of the cervix and penis. A method of preventing cancer, Hatcher said, is to take birth control
pills. Taking the pill regularly helps prevent cancers of the ovary and endometrium (the lining of the uterus), and deters
the formation of benign masses in the breast and non-functional ovarian cysts. Hatcher also extolled the virtues of condoms, saying,
“Condoms really do work.” He cited a study of prostitutes, who showed a lower rate of sexually transmitted diseases than
the general public because, according to Hatcher, they have fewer instances of unprotected sex. Each method of contraception has advantages
and disadvantages, though, cautioned Hatcher. “Figure out if it’s good for you or not so good,” he advised. Hatcher answered
a question from the audience on Morning After Pills (MAPs) by handing out informational sheets on both MAPs and Emergency
Contraceptive Pills (ECPs), which included a phone number to find clinics in a specific area where these are available. (MAPs
and ECPs are not available directly at the College except through referral.) Birth control pills and Intrauterine Devices (IUDs) can
also be used in place of MAPs and ECPs if need be, Hatcher said. Hatcher later showed slides of case
studies, contraceptives, and quotes, including a statement that said, “The erect penis has no conscience.” He closed by reciting Robert
Frost’s “The Road Not Taken.” “Wherever you’ve been sexually,” Hatcher said, “I hope you take the road less traveled, sexually.”
Hatcher advised the audience to tell the truth, to always use protection, to avoid infections, and “never to use force
in a sexual role.”MD, MPH, Professor of Gynecology and Obstetrics at Emory University School of Medicine, delivered a lecture entitled,
"Next Century the Status of Women Must Improve: Why Not Now," to an audience mostly comprised of pre-med society students.
In Monday’s lecture, he conveyed his belief that “the major reproductive health problems facing the world will not be solved
in the century ahead unless the status of women improves.” His speech revolved around three points: improvement of reproductive health
should be a top priority, this is contingent on the improvement of women’s status, and if contraception is preferable to
abortion in preventing unwanted pregnancies, women must be educated about contraceptive options. Through a series of case studies, Hatcher illustrated
his points, as well as the inferior status of women worldwide. In each case, the woman’s right to choose was
compromised, resulting in unwanted pregnancy, transmission of sexual diseases, and sometimes death.

In one case, a gynecologist in Jordan would not insert a contraceptive device because the female patient, although she had
three children, had no sons: the valued sex in that country. She was condemned to unwanted pregnancy because she had
not borne a son for her husband. In another case, Hatcher related the story of an HIV-negative woman in Zaire
who was part of a Center for Disease Control study of discordant couples (her husband was HIV positive). She was
advised to consistently use condoms and suffered physical abuse from her husband as a result. She returned to the clinic
with one eye swollen shut and multiple bruises and lacerations. Within 6 months, she was also HIV positive. A third
case involved a mother of 5 in Atlanta who wanted a tubal ligation. Her husband, in accordance with Muslim religious
law, denied her request. She subsequently performed a self-abortion by injecting air into her uterus. Her daughter found her dying
in the bathroom.

According to Hatcher, although they were educated about contraceptive options, these women’s subordinate status precluded their right to make reproductive
choices. Many women are simply not as knowledgeable about contraception. Hatcher promoted education about the use of contraceptive pills (the
“morning after” pill), and the post-coital IUD as effective emergency contraception. He also cited the progesterone-secreting IUD, monthly injections of
estrogen and progestin, a vaginal microbicide which kills STD agents including HIV and chlamydia, and RU 486 (the abortion pill)
as “exciting contraceptive prospects for the years ahead.” He added, however, that “our major reproductive health initiatives can’t succeed until
the status of women does improve.”

“While new methods will help, we need to use the methods we have,” said Hatcher. “Male methods now (condoms and
vasectomy), are actually the very best options in my mind. They are actually better than the options for women and
they must be called upon more and used more.” According to a retrospective study conducted by a colleague who surveyed
the Brothel Association in Nevada, only 1 in 829 condoms break. In a prospective study, there were zero condom breaks
in 350 acts of vaginal intercourse. Vasectomy, however, is the only contraceptive method for men which guarantees 100 percent effectiveness.
Whereas a tubal ligation (female sterilization) has a failure rate of 5.3 percent in the ten years following surgery for
women under the age of 30, absence of sperm in the semen following vasectomy can be periodically confirmed.

Hatcher challenged the audience to facilitate the improved status of women by actively advocating for women, making career decisions to
continue work in the field of family planning, and considering how they could get men to utilize the male methods
at their disposal. Hatcher said that women should get the power in making choices about their reproductive health, and that
a doctor must be willing to let them make a mistake. The point, he said, is to educate a patient,
but never to talk her out of what she really wants. “The new source of power is not in the
hands of the few, but in the education of many,” quoted Hatcher. “If women are going to gain more power,
men are going to have to give that power up.”

---

Unannounced, unappreciated visits by ALE perturb students, administrators

Alcohol from page 1

...and will have their licenses revoked by the Department of Motor Vehicles. “I don’t believe that ALE is necessary or
productive on Davidson’s campus,” the student said. “Nothing good can come from their presence. I believe college is a transition
in many respects, such as the law. College students make mistakes from time to time. With campus police officers, these
mistakes can be corrected with no serious consequences to one’s life. When state officers are on campus, the possibility of
offenses on your permanent record can occur. Most of the things that happen on this campus aren’t worth such a
harsh punishment.”

Students have also cited that ALE officers seemingly undermine the respect of Davidson’s own campus police officers. They ask how
patrolling this campus could influence the rate of alcohol-related accidents when drinking on campus effectively discourages drunk driving. Another student
who was fined $80 for possession of alcohol said, “We’re on campus, we’re not driving anywhere.” She was crossing the
street when a plain-clothes ALE officer confronted her at 9:30 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 10. He cited the cup in
her hand and its potential contents as probable cause for stopping her. “The whole episode was absurd,” she said. “There
are drunk drivers on the road that they should be pulling over.” After hiring a lawyer, her case was dismissed,
although the magistrate suggested she complete some community service.

Thrower said that when ALE originally came to Davidson, they informed him that they would be patrolling the area. He
asked them to alert him of future patrols, but they have not contacted him since their first visit to campus.
As of now, Thrower has no proof that ALE has been on campus recently. He is asking anyone who has
been written up within the past three weeks to contact campus police or see him in person so he can
look at the citation and take note of the ALE officers involved.
