Outpost delivery going well

Foster Haselden, chair of the Student Advisory Committee to Auxiliary Services, reported that the Outpost delivery system has proved a
successful endeavor, making approximately 15 deliveries an hour. He also reported that all students will receive new Cat cards with
one strip and a hologram photograph starting in the fall semester 1998. Campus vending machines will be Cat card-accessible at
that time.

Meredith Judy, Chair of the Student Advisory Committee to Residence Life, said that the lottery will occur earlier this year
than in the past in order to better accommodate students who are not granted first-choice housing. These students will now
be immediately eligible for off-campus housing. RLO is also working on the possibility of theme housing in Akers, Knox, and
Irwin.

President Buster Burk and Vice President Ann Harriot Fisher updated the SGA on the works of the Priorities Planning Committee,
which institutes long-term goals for Davidson College. The Committee agreed that Davidson will maintain (1) its status as a liberal
arts, four-year undergraduate college, (2) an institutional focus on academics, (3) a low student-to-faculty ratio, (4) church relatedness, (5) the
Honor System, (6) fiscal responsibility and dependence on alumni, and (7) appropriate intercollegiate athletics. Davidson will additionally strive to: (1)
keep students in on-campus housing, (2) encourage service and international experiences, and (3) sustain a gender balance.

Burk also presented several areas which are still under the Committee’s consideration. He asked for student input on the following:
1. Size: Should Davidson increase its enrollment, thereby inflating the student population to as much as 2,000, a number comparable
to other schools of Davidson’s caliber?
2. Level of Financial Aid: Should Davidson maintain the cap on financial aid, thereby preserving the base of 60 percent
of students who pay full tuition, yet potentially forgoing economic diversity?
3. Nature and Extent of Diversity: Should Davidson focus its recruiting efforts in private high schools or on making the
College more appealing to minorities who currently are not attracted to Davidson?
4. Specificity of Intercollegiate Athletics: Should Davidson continue to allocate 15 percent of its budget (as compared to 2.5 percent
at similar schools) to maintain Division I status?

Burk reiterated Committee plans in other areas such as the utilization of technology, resource allocation, curricular reform, and the nature
of the student experience. Burk, Fisher, and Senior Class President Tim Saintsing presented a resolution which charges Campus Building Services
and the Physical Plant Committee to work with Bob Collins to create and maintain a centrally-located kiosk — most likely
between Belk and Chambers. The motion passed overwhelmingly.

COMPILED BY JESSICA GOODSON

THE ORDER OF OMEGA HONOR SOCIETY
Fall 1997 New Members:
Seth Alley, Sigma Phi Epsilon
Jessica Kigazzi, Connor House
Emily Eagan, Rusk House
Paul Ebner, Sigma Phi Epsilon
Steinen Gerla, Rusk House
John Hawk, Pi Kappa Alpha
Asa Hercules, Phi Gamma Delta
Shakeem Lane, Black Student Coalition
Mary Lee, Connor House
Andrew Letizia, Sigma Phi Epsilon
Timothy O'Keefe, Sigma Phi Epsilon
Kathleen Palmer, Connor House
Hallie Pitkin, Rusk House
Loren Ponds, Black Student Coalition
Carlo Reynolds, Kappa Alpha Order
Anil Thomas, Sigma Phi Epsilon
Chris Thunberg, Phi Gamma Delta
Jonathan Williams, Phi Gamma Delta

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1997

Liberian political prisoner speaks
Amnesty International sponsors lecture
By Jessica Goodson, News Editor

Approximately 30 people attended a lecture Wednesday featuring Waylee George of Liberia. His speech was sponsored by Amnesty International and
hinged on his experience as a political prisoner in his native country. George related graphic personal accounts of the atrocities
committed in Liberia during the 1980s under the administration of William Tolbert and Samuel Doe.

William R. Tolbert ascended to the Presidency in 1971, following the death of William Tubman shortly after his election to
a seventh term as president. During his regime, the Progressive Alliance of Liberia (PAL) was formed, a political party which
strove to bridge the gap between Americo-Liberian (freedmen from the United States) and “Country People” (aboriginal Liberians). Americo-Liberians and their
descendants had imposed a kind of apartheid on indigenous tribes, generating tension between the two groups for decades. George was
involved in the organization and development of PAL, and served as its Secretary General in the late 1970s. In 1979,
members of PAL staged a peaceful demonstration challenging the high cost of rice, the staple of Liberia. Tolbert dispatched soldiers
who opened fire on the demonstrators, killing 40 of George’s colleagues.

In 1980, native Liberian (and member of the minority Krahn tribe) Samuel K. Doe led a coup to overthrow the
American-descended President, imposing martial law. Doe was no more humane than Tolbert had been, systematically killing his opposition. Between 1980
and 1985, Doe slaughtered many “rebels” from Tolbert’s administration. In 1985, a new constitution restored civilian elections, but Doe falsified
the results of the election, thereby remaining in power. George became a marked man for refusing to vote because, he
said, he knew it was rigged. In November 1985, another coup attempt was staged to lure dissidents into publicly decrying
Doe. Nonconformists were taken prisoners, stripped, beaten, and often murdered. If it were not for pressure from the international community,
George — who was jailed at this time — would have died. George expressed his gratitude for international intervention: “The
international community was aware. It gave...us hope, something to hold on to. Then I knew that someone was aware I
was in (prison). They were asking what the conditions were, who was still alive.” But he also criticized the United
Nations for not effecting justice as readily as Non-Governmental Organizations such as Amnesty International. According to George, the United Nations
needs to improve in three areas: the enactment of human rights policy, earnest and committed enforcement of such policies, and
exerting political pressure on foreign governments that oppress their citizens. Too often, he said, big governments make a profit selling
weapons to rulers who oppress their people. If they have no weapons, they have no means of acting on their
threats. “They should send weapons of construction like books, and not weapons of destruction like guns,” he said. George is
now a teacher at the Friends School in Atlanta. He travels around to support Amnesty groups as living testimony to
their effectiveness. George said he will go back to Liberia someday, despite his negative experiences. He hopes to take his
children to see Liberia when there is no longer a threat to his life. “From the depths of my heart
I thank you for saving my life,” George said. “If you breathe out, I breathe in.”

Rotary Grants awarded
Professor, two students honored
By Jenny Hapcoop
Staff Writer

Lakhi Sabaratnam, an associate professor in the Sociology department, received a $10,000 Rotary International grant to teach anthropological research methods
and theory at the University of Madras in India next year. Sabaratnam recently received the grant at a Rotary district
banquet for showing a desire to build international understanding and friendship, and because he fits the Rotary model of putting
“service above self.”

The Rotary scholarship supports strengthening international awareness and higher education in low-income countries. Sabaratnam teaches courses focusing on South Asia
and co-sponsors the South Asian Studies concentration at Davidson. A course he will teach next semester is entitled “Being Asian
in America.” According to Sabaratnam, many anthropologists in India are worried about the effects technology and economy have on the
cultural beliefs and habits of their country. They wonder how substantially rapid advances in technology will affect cherished values and
behaviors. In his grant application, Sabaratnam said, “It is important to observe, record, and interpret these cultures and help mediate
these changes through the various cultural lenses so that personal stress is reduced and culture is preserved, but adaptively so.”
At the University of Madras, Sabaratnam will teach anthropology students newer methodologies that will enhance their existing knowledge of their
culture, and assist them in studying and recording it. In addition, he hopes to research the shrine of Nagur Vallal,
a Muslim saint whose shrine is visited by Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Christians, and other religious groups, as well.

Two Davidson students also received Rotary scholarships. Seniors Nathan Raley and Wesley Hart were chosen from 10 finalists to receive
Ambassadorial Scholarships for study at an international university. Raley plans to study at the University of Provence in Aix-en-Provence, France,
next year. Hart will attend either the University of the Western Cape or the University of Cape Town in Cape
Town, South Africa, to study political science after graduating. Both Raley and Hart will build on experiences they had during
the fall semester of their junior years, when they studied abroad in the same countries. Information from the Chronicle was
used in this report.

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

Last Thursday, tables and tents were set up on Chambers lawn as Davidson College and the American Cancer Society encouraged
smokers to “go cold turkey” as part of the Great American Smokeout. The event encourages smokers to quit for one
day in hopes that it will lead to a non-smoking lifetime. This is the second year the nationwide event has
taken place at Davidson. The goal of the Smokeout, said Health Educator Georgia Ringle, was to raise “awareness on campus”
as to the dangers of smoking. Even “social smokers” (those who smoke only on weekends or in social situations) are
at risk. Because nicotine is highly addictive, smoking could easily become habit-forming even for those who smoke only occasionally. Chambers
lawn was chosen as the location for the Smokeout because people tend to smoke on the steps in front of
Chambers, according to Ringle. “We try to go where the smokers are,” she said. Ringle said that she was more
impressed by student involvement in the event than by faculty participation, which was somewhat lacking. The tents drew some smokers,
but most were nonsmokers who wanted to help their friends quit, she continued. Students who visited the Smokeout tents were
given survival kits, including information on the dangers of smoking and how to quit, and candy as a substitute for
cigarettes. There was also a lung capacity test available, which measures the amount of air lungs take in during one
breath. Additionally, in the theme of “go cold turkey,” Vail Commons donated turkey sandwiches to the event. “I think it
went well,” Ringle said. “I’m real pleased with it. I just think it’s a tough campaign.”
