U S 7 epee & +t 8 E. D A y

Four in a row and a tournament title

Squad bests Tech for biggest win ever

By SHAWN WHITELEY
Davidson Sports Information

ATLANTA — Sophomore Jen O’Brien had a career-high 26 points and nine assists to lead the Wildcats to a 90-72
victory Wednesday night over Georgia Tech. The win over the ACC school was the biggest in the history of Davidson
women’s basketball.

“I can’t say how proud of this team I am,” said senior Danielle Mall, who along with classmates Jennie Vanlerberghe
and Jennifer Sanborn saw Davidson finish 4-23 her freshman year. “Four years ago, our coaches were afraid to play Georgia
Tech because we would have been demolished. To beat them now means so much.”

The Wildcats hit 55.6 percent from the field, 50 percent from three-point land, and 23 of their 27 foul shots.
Davidson was behind for almost the entire first half until Kerry Brown scored on a layup with 3:04 remaining in
the half. The Wildcats led at the half 38-35, and didn’t look back as they kept the lead the entire
second half. Davidson took control of the game with a 20-7 run in the final minutes.

Joining O’Brien in double figures for the Wildcats were Vanlerberghe (17), Jessica Montrella (14), and Jamie Brown (10). Sophomore Meagan
Gleason had her best game as a Wildcat, converting.

See Tech on page 18

By Daniel Morz
Sports Editor

The women’s basketball followed Wednesday’s historic win over Georgia Tech by capturing their second straight Chesebrough-Ponds Roundball Invitational championship.

In Sunday’s title win over Eastern Michigan — Davidson’s fourth straight victory after an 0-3 start — the Wildcats raced
to a 13-0 advantage, converting on nearly every offensive opportunity while holding the Eagles scoreless for the first six minutes.
It wasn’t that easy the entire afternoon, but it was clearly a satisfying win for the Wildcats.

See Champs on page 18

Wildcat upset bid foiled

By Daniel Motz
Sports Editor

Another good effort. Another missed opportunity for the men’s basketball team. Wake Forest, behind for much of the second half,
rallied for a 61-56 victory Wednesday over the Wildcats in front of a crowd of 5,478 at Belk Arena.

Behind by six points late in the game, the Demon Deacons, led by guard Robert O’Kelley, used a 20-9 game-ending
run to subdue the upset-minded Wildcats. A fastbreak steal and layup by Davor Halbauer with 6:52 remaining in the game
gave Davidson a 47-41 lead, including two three-pointers. The first trey cut the Davidson lead to one; the second, three
minutes later, gave the Deacons an insurmountable six-point lead, 58-52.

“He (O’Kelley) showed tonight that he can get the job done,” Wake Forest coach Dave Odom said. “He really helps
take the pressure off of Jerry (Braswell) and Tony (Rutland).”

And while O’Kelley’s play lifted Wake, it was the poise and experience of those senior guards that Davidson lacked down
the stretch.

“The experience and poise of Rutland and Braswell was a real factor,” McKillop said. “The experience of a team that
has made seven straight NCAA appearances showed tonight. Hopefully by playing more games like these, we can acquire that poise
and experience to get us over the top.”

The only Wildcats in double digits were Anna Judy and Landry Kosmalski.Hangs for a layup in Wednesday night’s action against
Wake Forest. After leading for much of the second half, the Wildcats fell to the 24th-ranked Demon Deacons.

Unimpressed. Wake Forest coach Dave Odom didn’t think Wednesday night’s crowd — the second largest in Belk Arena history —
was so great, and he let the press know. Story, page 19.

Why Tufts and Carnegie Mellon? McKillop has answers. Men's basketball notebook, page 19.

Filar hits milestone. Women’s hoops coach John Filar earned career win No. 50 over the weekend. Women's basketball notebook, page
18.

Grappling towards success. The wrestlers tied Anderson in their first dual meet of the season, but are hoping to build
on success in last year's conference tournament. Story, page 16.

Silver linings. Both the men's and women’s swim teams logged second-place finishes this weekend at Emory. Story, page 16.

Men’s basketball
- Wake Forest 61, Wildcats 56
- Wildcats 91, Carnegie Mellon 46

Women’s basketball
- Wildcats 90, Georgia Tech 72
- Wildcats 103, Canisius 82
- Wildcats 81, Eastern Michigan 62

Wrestling
- Wildcats 18, Anderson College 18

Swimming and diving
- Women: Second with 931 points (UNCW: 1,322.5)
- Men: Second with 774 points (UNCW: 1,119)

JEN O’BRIEN
Women’s hoops
- So. G O'Brien was a terror this week on the hardwood, leading the Wildcats to three wins. The floor
general scored a career-high 26 points Wednesday against Georgia Tech and then earned MVP honors in this weekend's Cheesebrough-Ponds Invitational
at Belk Arena.

It’s biggest lead of the evening. But ultimately, the Wildcats’ inability to put the ball in the basket — they
shot only 35 percent from the field — caught up with them.

“During the time we shut them down, if we had made one shot, maybe it could have put the dagger
in them,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop.

Enter Robert O’Kelley. The freshman phenom scored 10 of his 18 points in the last six minutes. Landry Kosmalski and
Stephen Marshall recorded 11 and 10, respectively.

For Davidson, it was another valiant effort against a top echelon program. But it was a game the Wildcats let
slip away.

“There is no consolation in losing a game like this,” McKillop said. “We don’t feel this is a moral victory.
We lost, and that’s emptiness.”

After spending nearly 15 minutes in the Belk Arena press room attempting to explain why the Wildcats lost a game
they could have won, coach Bob McKillop bowed his head in frustration and disappointment.

Team stumbles in stretch run
“This was a game we could’ve gotten,” the ninth-year coach said. “That’s emptiness. There’s no consolation in losing this game
by five or six points.”

Especially when Davidson dominated much of the second half. Thanks to the best stretch of defense by the Wildcats so
far this season, Wake Forest scored five points in the first 10 minutes after intermission. And a Davor Halbauer layup
with 6:52 to go gave McKillop’s corps a promising lead.

See Late woes on page 19

Men’s basketball
- Wednesday @ UNC Charlotte (6:30 p.m., WAGI-FM 105.3)
- Sunday vs. Wofford (1:00 p.m., WAGI-FM 105.3)

Women’s basketball
- Wednesday @ UNC Charlotte (5:45 p.m.)

Basketball Rebels vs. UNC Charlotte Wednesday
- Charlotte
- 5:45 p.m. (women), 7:45 p.m. (men)

In perhaps the biggest night of basketball in Mecklenburg County this year, the Davidson women and men take on the
archrival 49ers at UNCC’s Halton Arena.
