16

‘For four weeks, Davidson became one’

By MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Editor in Chief

This is the first in a series of articles commemorating the fifth anniversary of the men’s soccer team’s miraculous run to the 1992 NCAA Final Four at Richardson Field.

Life is not a fairytale. We know this—we are reminded on a daily basis—and we accept this.

But five years ago this semester, it sure seemed like one here at Davidson, as the men’s soccer team treated the college and town to one of the most jaw-droppingly improbable and heart-palpitating postseason performances in the history of college athletics.

After posting a 16-4-3 regular season, the non-scholarship Wildcats—“just students who happen to play soccer,” Main St. Barber Kenneth Norton told the Observer—toppled UNC Charlotte, Coastal Carolina, and North Carolina St. to earn a berth in the NCAA Final Four at their very own Richardson Field.

Davidson beat UNCC in penalty kicks, Coastal in sudden death PKs, and State in sudden death overtime.

Nearly 420 minutes of tournament play. Three Chanticleer penalty kicks that would have ended the Wildcats’ season, all of which were turned away by sophomore goal-tending wonderboy Alex Deegan. A 1-0 triple overtime quarterfinal victory over State in Raleigh. All of which made possible a trip to their sport’s biggest party. At their home field. On their own campus. In front of their own fans.

This was no fairytale. It was much, much better.

“It energized the whole community,” All-American striker Rob Ukrop said in a recent interview in his hometown of Richmond, Va., where he currently stars for the minor league Kickers. “We brought people together. This was what we were doing for Davidson.”

And, ultimately, the performance united Davidson in a way never experienced here before or since. Given the forum to do so, the soccer squad captured the nation’s attention with its whimsical ride, all the while instilling a new and overwhelming sense of pride in the college and community.

As Deegan, now a teammate of Ukrop’s in Richmond, put it, “For four weeks, Davidson became one.”

The prelude to the postseason
It didn’t take long at all for Slagle to realize just what he had on his hands—and what it could potentially become.
In fact, the first practice in mid-August—a

See Cover Story on page 12

Centennial Season. At a ripe 100 years of age, the Men's soccer football team is looking to post back-to-back winning seasons for the first time in nearly four decades, and could easily challenge the school win record of seven in a season.
Cross Country. Cookson, Franklin, Kiefer, Lannon lead harriers into battle.
Men’s hoops does Italy. Wildcats learn about themselves and another culture on international road swing in August.
Six teams open. Both Wildcat soccer squads lost opening contests, the women at South Carolina and the men against Wisconsin and Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
Field hockey. Wildcats drop weekend pair in Charlottesville, Va.

Field hockey

Volleyball

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wisconsin 3, Wildcats 2 (OT)
Wisc.-Mil. 3, Wildcats 2
Women’s soccer

South Carolina 5, Wildcats 2

Virginia 11, Wildcats 0
Georgetown 9, Wildcats 0

Wildcats 3, UNC Wilmington
College of Charleston 3, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 3, Elon 1

SPORTS
Better than a fairytale

Rob Ukrop is captured in a state of euphoria after sending the Wildcats to the 1992 Final Four with a triple-overtime goal against North Carolina St.

Andrew Holbrook

Men’s soccer
So. * MF

Making his varsity debut, the sophomore notched a goal and an assist as the Wildcats fell to Wisconsin 3-2 in overtime Friday night in Madison, Wis.

Men’s Soccer

Saturday vs. UNC Charlotte (7:00 p.m.)

Women’s Soccer

Tomorrow vs. Clemson (7:00 p.m.)

Volleyball

Friday @ Georgetown (2:30 p.m.)
Saturday vs. DePaul @ Washington, D.C. (1:00 p.m.)
Saturday vs. Fla. Atl. @ Washington, D.C. (4:00 p.m.)
Field Hockey

Saturday: vs. Louisville (2:00 p.m.)

Cross Country

Saturday @ Appalachian St.

Men’s Soccer vs. UNC Charlotte
Saturday Richardson Field * 7:00 p.m.
The Wildcats, suffering from 3-2 syndrome, look for their first win when cross-county nemesis UNC Charlotte hits Richardson Field for an early-season blockbuster.

Women’s Soccer vs. Clemson
Tomorrow * Richardson Field * 7:00 p.m.
Coming off a loss at The Graveyard in Columbia, S.C., Davidson's schedule gets no easier as the Wildcats battle ACC powerhouse and 20th-ranked Clemson.