@ Kerry Brown scored 13 Friday night in Nashville, Tenn., as the Wildcats nearly missed a stunning upset of the
10th-ranked Commodores.

In first ever action against Top 25 competition, Wildcats fall just short | By Jay CANTRELL Sports Editor

“We were really flustered in the beginning,” said Jamie Brown, who had a chance to tie the game with a
jumper in the final seconds. “It was a totally different atmosphere than we’re used to.”

“They didn’t give us much respect,” said Katy Kamp, who finished with 14 points. “Vanderbilt thought they were going for
a walk in the park, but it turned out to be more like a minefield.”

The women’s basketball team nearly knocked off the 10th-ranked Commodores Friday night, falling 65-63 after dominating much of the game.
Vanderbilt jumped out to a 10-4 lead and probably thought the Wildcats would start packing their bags. But Davidson came
back and led throughout most of the contest until the Commodores and their crowd of over 6,000 people came alive.

Vanderbilt’s point guard hit a three-pointer from well beyond the arc with 35 seconds left in the game and time
running down on the shot clock. That put the Commodores up by five, but Wildcat point guard Jen O’Brien answered
by nailing a trey of her own with eight seconds left. Brown then stole the inbounds pass and missed a
short jump shot.

Jen O’Brien led all scorers with 19.

Davidson Sports Information

Frosh make Duke national champ candidates | By Michael J. KRUSE Editor in Chief

Experienced Wildcats ready for Cameron test | By Dante Motz Senior Staff Writer

DURHAM — Walk into Cameron Indoor Stadium and you are greeted with a pair of national championship trophies and dozens
of banners hanging from the ancient rafters proclaiming ACC titles and NCAA Final Fours. Through their non-conference schedule, this year’s
men’s basketball team has the opportunity to bring national attention to both the Davidson basketball program and the College. One
of the biggest such opportunities occurs Thursday night when the Wildcats face Duke.

In DURHAM

And after several down years — at Duke, that means three straight seasons that ended before the NCAA regionals —
the third-ranked Blue Devils once again sport talent the likes of which made them the dominant force in college basketball
early in this decade — the kind of experience and depth that earns such symbols of consistent excellence. The Blue
Devils, who host Davidson at Cameron Thursday night in a game to be televised nationally on ESPN2, welcomed a quartet
of superlative freshmen to a lineup that was already good enough last year to capture the ACC regular season crown.
National recruiting analysts dubbed the rookie crop of William Avery, Shane Battier, Elton Brand, and Chris Burgess the best since
Michigan’s Fab Five. Indeed, Avery, a point guard, is the relative ugly duckling of the group, as he only earned
third-team All-American laurels as a high schooler — Brand, Battier, and Burgess were all first-teamers, with Battier collecting the Naismith
National Player of the Year award and Burgess the same distinction from the Sporting News. Ironically, it is Brand who
will likely make the most immediate impact of the four, giving the Blue Devils a much-needed rebounding presence. Brand started
Sunday in Duke’s opener.open their season in Durham against No. 3 Duke on ESPN2. “Obviously, it is very exciting to
play a team with that much exposure,” junior playmaker Ali Ton said. “But we will treat it like any other
game.” Last year, Davidson hung with Duke for 20 minutes, trailing by just seven at the half, before falling 85-58.
This year, the focus will be to eliminate those final 20 minutes in which Duke took complete control of the
game. And with more experience and confidence than a year ago, the Wildcats believe they can indeed play with Duke
for the full 40 minutes. “Last year, we learned a lot by playing at Duke,” Ton said. “The atmosphere there
is incredible. The Cameron Crazies are like sharks. They see blood, the other team starts making stupid mistakes, and the
team is dead. It is very easy to lose your poise playing in that environment.” Ton believes playing in Cameron
a year ago will prevent another late-game Davidson lapse. The Wildcats are not short on confidence either. Led by their
backcourt, several publications, including Sports Illustrated, predict that the Blue Devils Davidson Sports Information Preview Sports Publications @ Coach Bob
McKillop and the men’s basketball team will meet sharpshooter Trajan Langdon and the third-ranked Duke Blue Devils Thursday night at
Cameron Indoor Stadium. The contest is Davidson’s opener and Duke’s first home game. See Durham on page 14 See Davidson
on page 14 Tennis around the corner. The men’s and women's Men’s basketball loss to Bridgewater. Game story, page 13.
challenge the gridders Saturday in Tampa — least. Football notebook, page 13. OT killer, Football team drops to 3-7 in
crushing home South Florida bullish. The 1-AA scholarship Bulls will to say the football Bridgewater 13, Wildcats 10 (OT) Volleyball
Wildcats 3, Elon 1 Wildcats 3, Ga Southern 0 Swimming and Men: East Carolina 179, Wildcats 122 Women: East Carolina
183, Wildcats 119 spect — that is, until they absolutely had to in hopes of maintaining their Top 10 —
or even Top 25 — ranking. The squad — picked by Southern Conference coaches to win the league and advance
to the NCAAs Sunday @ Saginaw Valley St. (2:00 p.m.) Football Saturday @ South Florida (7:00 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM,
WSAT 1280 AM) Volleyball Friday-Sunday @ Southern Conference tournament @ Statesboro, Ga. (Friday vs. Western Carolina) Wildcats 101, Charlotte Royals
65 (exhibition) The men’s basketball team, behind No.1 players Jon Pastel and Dana Casner, Wildcats 90, Lithuania 60 (exhibition) Men’s
basketball Women’s basketball Sunday @ New Hampshire (3:00 p.m., Vanderbilt 65, Wildcats 63 Vanderbilt gave the Wildcats no re: Women’s
basketball at Duke (ESPN2) Tennis notebooks: Saturday @ Central Michigan (3:00 p.m.) Thursday @ Durham 6:30 p.m. The Wildcats open
a much-anticipated season with a much-anticipated game — against third-ranked Duke in hallowed Cameron Indoor. Wrestling at Swimming & Diving
Harriers conclude season. Both cross country teams ran Saturday @ VMI Invitational — nearly won its first ever contest against
a Thursday-Saturday @ Nike Cup @ Chapel Hill Stadium in the NCAA Regionals this weekend. Story, page 12. Men: 27th
@ the NCAA Regionals ranked opponent, falling 65-63. Wrestling Stadium. Women: 24th @ NCAA Regionals at Appalachian St. @ Boone
(9:00 a.m.)
