THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vagt gives his inaugural speech Friday morning.
By Mary L&E Staff Writer

President Bobby Vagt knows what he wants. When the Presidential Inaugural Committee asked him what he wanted at his celebration, Vagt said in his office last week, “I had three suggestions for the committee. I told them, ‘We need a little ceremony, because we have to. I want a meal with the students. And we need lots of ice cream.’”

All of Vagt’s requests were fulfilled Friday at a luncheon that followed the inaugural ceremony on the front lawn of Chambers. There, a catered lunch was served to approximately 3,000 guests. And, honoring the wishes of our new leader, four ice cream tents were set up to serve the Davidson community—trustees, faculty, staff, alumni, special guests, and students.

“I am very humbled by all the time, effort, and creativity that has gone into the inaugural planning,” Vagt said of the ceremonies. “Davidson is a great place. I don’t take becoming Davidson’s 16th president lightly at all. I am only one of many who labor or have labored here.”

President Vagt’s journey from Houston to Davidson and from corporate oil to academia occurred in late June. His wife, Ruth Anne, followed in mid-July. Adjustment has been easy for both of them, since the Charlotte area is home to each of their alma maters—Davidson and, in Ruth Anne’s case, Queens College.

“This is a fantastic place. If we ever need anything more than what Lake Norman offers, we can always wander to Charlotte,” Vagt said. “You can find anything here that is in Houston—except maybe the humidity.”

As a leader, Vagt is fast proving himself to be a students’ president. He has ridden on the fire truck in the Centennial football game parade, has had formal and informal conversations with students, has visited freshman halls to talk to them about their anxieties, has gotten pies thrown in his face at the Lunar Luau on Richardson Field, and has body surfed down the wet tile floor of a 4th Little slip-and-slide party.

The warm rapport already developing between the students and their president became obvious during Vagt’s inaugural address. He said, of his rose-colored academic gown, “A student asked me this morning, ‘Don’t you know we're the Davidson Wildcats, not the Davidson Cardinals?’”

“The students are the ones who are important,” Vagt said. “The festivities on Thursday and Friday were meant to involve students as much as possible.” Fifty student representatives were chosen randomly from each class to march with the academic procession.

“The celebration is a great time for trustee interaction with the students,” he said. “The dinner was an unusual event, because for the first time students and trustees got to spend time together.”

More recently, however, President Vagt and his wife, Ruth Anne, have enjoyed a week of celebration with friends, family, and new acquaintances. “The focus of the celebration is on Davidson,” Vagt said. “It is the celebration not of a person, but an institution.”

Vagt’s vision for the future of Davidson is simple: He pledges to maintain the status quo of academic excellence. “I will work very hard to keep what we have in terms of students and staff... It’s not about treading water,” Vagt said in his inaugural address. “We cannot be static. We must be dynamic.”

Good morning. I must pre-empt all formal comments with a response to a question asked sotto voce by two students as I passed by in my brilliant new regalia. The answer is, “Yes, I do know that we're the Davidson Wildcats, not the Davidson Cardinals.”

I would extend to all in this company my thanks for being here, and for the opportunity to be here. You will remember, I hope, that this is a celebration not of a person, but a tradition, a celebration of this institution. Thus I am grateful that each one of you is in attendance, for it is all of us here—students, faculty, staff, trustees, honored guests, and friends—which give this place its definition.

I must confess that I was puzzled as to what I might say. I didn’t want to be too broad and sophomoric, to offer up a piece of intellectual meringue, tasty and puffy, but without substance. Yet I recognized that were I to be too specific about what changes I would seek, it might appear by implication to be a criticism of what is. So I went to my good friend and predecessor, the very right—and I mean the very right—Reverend Doctor John Kuykendall to seek his advice. He thought a bit, and then he proffered this sage bit of counsel. He said, “A wise man, a truly wise man, would say something with vision, that has intellectual scope. Only an idiot would allow an opportunity with this august assemblage to slip away. Only an idiot.” In the interest of full disclosure, I note that was reflected in his eyes and in his voice a question as to in which of those two camps I might reside.

And what does one say? A pledge, perhaps in this case a simple pledge but one that goes well behind and beyond a general commitment to lend one’s best effort, so that’s absolutely true. So in keeping with the reformed tradition of which we are a proud part, I pledge to nurture particularly three areas of our common enterprise with your advice and assistance. These three are related, each to the next.

First of all, any intentions would be without substance if they failed to pay homage to and swear absolute allegiance to that which lies at the heart, at the soul of this place, and that is its teaching and learning. We must and we will maintain the status quo of excellence in which this, the very best of faculties, fans the flames of inquiry, fires which spread and grow in intensity, to the point that they are beyond being extinguished. Even simply maintaining this is no mean feat, for it is not about treading water, about being static. It is not even about two folks on opposite ends of the log, but is the dynamic interaction between student and teacher, between learner and the learned, and it is about growth, revelation, occasionally punctuated by setback, and about confrontation with eternal questions. The status quo of excellence, easy to say, but achieved only with passionate, and compassionate dedication on the part of the faculty, this faculty, our faculty, who are ever-ready to allow students to partake of their precious time, their hard-won knowledge, their affection. Easy to say but maintained only with candid reflection on the part of the students. Easy to say, but maintained only with a keen understanding of when we must change what and how we teach, and when we must resist the flood tide of academic fashion and remain the same.

Teaching and learning is, as our statement of purpose declares, “The exploration of the whole of reality with an unlimited employment of one’s intellectual powers, the broadest examination, in and outside the classroom, of all that we are, of all that we hope for, a process, which, once started, never ends.” And yes, this wonderfully vibrant process even includes the use of modern technology in creating a slip and slide on the fourth floor of Little dormitory.

Secondly, I pledge to uphold that religious tradition which gives us our bearings. This teaching and learning takes place in the context of a heritage of belief that we do not engage in this enterprise, or any worthy enterprise, alone. And with commitment to a sovereign God, Who is the source of all truth, and in Whose truth we find freedom. This commitment is neither incidental nor accidental. It speaks to the community in which this learning occurs. It speaks to the context in which this learning occurs, and at some point deals with the content of the learning when a student as part of a legitimate intellectual exercise begins to consider who we are, why we are here, and what we are called to do. A series of questions which are never answered fully, and finally. This heritage is a Christian tradition which recognizes a God who is bound by neither church nor creed, and thus we are blessed to have as full members of this community those of all religious beliefs. This heritage holds in highest esteem the labors of reason as leavened by faith in a God Who turns sterile knowledge into rich learning. This heritage defines the spirit, the atmosphere, the manner in which this process of learning is engaged, and this heritage speaks to inspire those who pass through this place to use their knowledge for the commonweal.

John R. Cunningham, known as Slick John the Divine, whose temple looms large across the way, on this same occasion opened that...Knowledge by itself is neutral, asserting that the determining factor regarding the value of knowledge is the spirit, the moral convictions, and the motives of the learner. And that our tradition is to invest our students with a disturbing passion to live finely, nobly, usefully, and sacrificially.

These two then prepare the way for a third pledge, or hope if you will, best introduced by relating two experiences. The first, a conversation with a friend whose responsibility was to hire people for the many service agencies of the United Nations for whom she worked. She told me that over the course of the last ten years, she has had increasing difficulty finding folks for UNESCO, the World Health Organization, and UNICEF and the like, because while she was inundated with applications, most were products of an education designed to prepare them for the realities of this world. And as such, few presented themselves to her believing that there existed the possibility that these agencies could solve the pervasive and deep-seated problems of famine, starvation, infant mortality, inadequate medical care, and the list goes on—without which belief their efforts were doomed to failure.

I, until a few months ago and others like me in the world of commerce, clamored for, insisted upon graduates who came fully loaded with a grasp of the realities of this world—who could recognize what would work and what would not. A year ago it was mine to hire a savvy person to solve a major systems problem. And I opted for the man who knew precisely the limits of our software and was to resolve the situation in the context of these limitations. Passed over was an individual who was not convinced that the boundaries of possibility of the existing system were as constraining as common wisdom led one to believe. The one contracted to do the work did precisely as promised, and his product was effective for three months. At which point the dreamer came in and without the burden of preexisting notions as to limitations, solved the problem permanently.

And so where lies the difficulty in this? Perhaps what has been expected of the teachers and learners is not what is needed. There is a growing realization of this. Davidson College is to send forth from this place citizens of the world. Young people who are ready for life anywhere on this globe, who are prepared for the necessities of what they are to face. We are not supposed to prepare Pollyannas, but perhaps we are doing our duty too well. We are not supposed to issue graduates wearing rose-colored glasses, but nor are we to send the brightest and the best with their idealism already spent on the lessons of reality taught in these and other ivied halls. And what has been sacrificed on the altar of reality has been that rosy-eyed glow that is our only real hope for the improvement of the lot in life of most who inhabit this planet. What happened to the intellectual legitimacy of believing that what seems impossible ain’t necessarily so?

A poem about dreaming talks about cities where folk can walk the streets without fear, governments that rule for the good of all instead of the few, of times when truth triumphs over lies and is the rule by which people live. When anyone who is sick no longer dies solely for want of care, when guns no longer sound and human beings live in peace, when women everywhere receive their rightful due, when brotherhood transcends all differences of race and creed, when earth is devoid of humanity’s destructive ways. Why is it that two-thirds of the world’s children must go to bed hungry every night? Why is it that optimism cannot banish despair? I trust you recognize this list.

My grandfather told me a story about a mouse in Africa who was walking along the side of a lake, and found himself up against an elephant rolling on the ground to cool himself. The mouse walked over to the elephant and yelled at him to get up. And he was ignored. And he yelled more loudly to the elephant, “Get up, get up!” And the elephant finally turned and said, “Go away.” But the mouse was not put off and continued to scream at the top of his voice, “Stand up! Stand up!” Finally, the elephant out of frustration said, “Why do you want me to stand up?” To which the mouse replied, “I want to see if you're wearing my swimming trunks.” Perhaps not particularly funny, but it describes a mouse whose sense of what could be is not limited by his experience or his perceptions of reality.

If we, who have let the blinders of reality, practicality, history, or common sense construct the list of what can be accomplished get in the way of imparting to these women and men that sense of what can be done, what new worlds will be explored? What aspects of solar, ocean, or microspace would have been discovered if folks had been reined in by the realities of life as they were known? It is certainly true that time and experience may take their toll on the enthusiasm and the idealism which fuel the vision of what could happen, of what could improve. But let us not hasten the arrival by imbuing young men and women with a longer list of limitations than possibilities. We need a little bit less of Chicken Little and a whole lot more of the Little Engine That Could.

And what lies at the root of our blindness to the possibilities? It may well be that most of the world’s lack of vision is self-imposed blindness. We cannot see beyond our individual experience, and our imagination becomes the captive of our own reality. As William Blake tours London Town, he describes so starkly how those mind-forged manacles have shackled those he meets. We must not limit their vision, but in order to do this, we must adjust ours. And no simple task this, for time has already taken its measure of us. For we of thinning hair and mature air have felt the slow ebbing of our enthusiasm and confidence that was our birthright, brought on by age and life’s lessons. When I read the list of the dreamer, there were a lot of heads here nodding yes, while inside the response was, “Dream on.” If we're over thirty-five—thirty maybe—and are honest, we will admit by and large we have quit. We have given up on the possibility of our salving society's hurts, of our solving its ills. We cannot give up on theirs. We cannot stop teaching in our classrooms and at life’s table that all things are possible to him or her who believes. Which of us as teacher, parent, friend is willing to risk being thought of, or called outright, naive? For each of us whose noble purpose is to engage in teaching and learning, the only answer is, “I am.” Though we cannot always see clearly, for it is sometimes cloudy on the horizon of possibility, we must step out of our box.

The solutions to that list are here with us. They sit before us every day. To you, the students, the heavy burden and the glorious opportunity falls. You must be lifted by vision not of what might be, or even what could be, but what will be, what must be. We no longer have the luxury of time. Humanity cannot wait. You must style yourselves after the unlikely hero of Russian folklore Ivan Dorchok, regarded by some as a fool, but by generations of Russian children and adults as well as a young man too unwise in the ways of the world to know what he could not possibly do. And so he did it. Time and again, faced with what had been proven beyond doubt to be insoluble, he refused to yield to the informed resignation that he found all about him. You too must go out and slay the dragons. The dragons left to you by us. And by God, you can do it.

The wonders and magnificence of this place is its purpose, which is of a single seamless piece. At its core lies teaching and learning, the art and science of reason. Nestled alongside that reason, faith, provided by the Christian tradition of which we are part, which directs the lives and labors of those who reside here, and those who come and leave; directs them to that servanthood so eloquently articulated by John Kuykendall, and even more eloquently expressed in the lives and actions of the members of this community. And this servanthood must be cloaked in hope, in optimism, for it calls us to do until there is nothing left to be done. Reason and faith, faith which tempers and forges our optimism into an iron resolve to do not only that which is obvious, but also that which is impossible.

On this glorious day, in this glorious place, in this magnificent company of Davidson family and friends, I offer you my thanks for being a part of it and for allowing me to be a part of it, a tradition which sees all things as possible.