THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997

I’m in the Union Café the other day, and I see an interesting sight. There are four guys—not one, not
two, not three, but four—standing in line to pay for their food, and all of them are wearing jeans or
khakis, a t-shirt, a baseball cap, and a black polar fleece vest. I live off campus, and I guess I’m
just out of the coolness fashion loop, but is this the most stylin’ new outfit around or something? Have I
fallen completely out of sync with the standards of being hip at Davidson? Why in the blazing, lava-filled, piping-hot hell
am I even concerned with what anybody else is wearing? I'll tell you why: I’ve been a little bit jittery
and extra-grouchy since returning to school this semester. You see, I haven’t had a cigarette since January 10th. I’m on
THE PATCH—God bless Nicoderm. It’s a damn sight better than going cold turkey, but I’ve still had quite a few
withdrawal symptoms. First of all, I’m hungry all the time and eat about eight times as much food as I
used to. On the night I saw the four stooges dressed in their matching polar fleece vests, I had a
late-night snack consisting of a cheeseburger, an order of fries, a couple of candy bars, a pack of cookies, a
Little Debbie, a bag of chips, a pint of megasuper-duper chocolate fudge-swirled Haagen Dazs, and two bottles of sweet tea.
I’ve also been getting tired more easily. Last weekend, I actually went to bed before dawn both nights. Well, to
be honest, the sleep was induced on Friday night by my close personal friend Cap’n Morgan, but I fear that
my wild, all-night-long lifestyle will have to take a brief break until I get over not smoking a pack and
a half a day.

If I were just hungry and tired, I think I could handle quitting, but on top of those, I’ve been
grumpy, grouchy, spiteful, angry, and even more mean-spirited than ever. For example, I want to smack the everliving shtuff out
of the morons who got alcohol poisoning on self-selection night. If you drink so much that you have to get
rushed to the hospital, then I have less than no sympathy for you. If you get alcohol poisoning, this shows
that you should drink far, far more often and become better acquainted with alcohol’s effects before you try to drink
a whole case of Wild Irish Rose, okay?

The reason I get so pissed about the two alcohol poisoning cases is that EMS had to send two separate
ambulances up here, and North Mecklenburg only has two ambulances. If anybody had a heart attack or a stroke or
something serious, he or she could have died, just because a couple of college-age boneheads couldn’t hold their liquor. It
seems to me that on notoriously excessive nights like first night down and self-selection, the College should set up an
emergency alcohol-poisoning clinic in the infirmary, which would keep EMS free to help people with more pressing emergencies. RLO, if
you’re reading this, please think about it.

Maybe I’m overreacting. I probably am. I’ve been a bit of an obnoxious jerk since quitting, but some good things
have happened. For example, I’ve discovered that food has a taste and the world is filled with things called odors
that my nose can pick up. I also don’t smell like an ashtray anymore, and I can walk up the
stairs in Chambers without hacking up a lung that was pink many, many years ago and spitting it onto the
floor. I’m learning a lot from the quitting process, and let me give the non-smokers out there a piece of
advice: Never, ever start smoking, and if you do, never, ever stop.

Naresh Nagella

Splitting Hairs

Well, now that the entire Davidson student population has received a set of final grades, we can either grumble, gripe,
be surprised (negatively or positively), or philosophize. The Opinions section is designed to deal with those and all other reactions,
so I shall continue. My problem is with Davidson’s actual grading system, but not on the part of the professor’s
evaluations. An incredibly high percentage of the time they are fair and clear in their expectations of the student. I
think something can be done about the options the professors have, though. I mean, the “plus/minus” system of grading really
does not make much sense to me anymore. Davidson is built on the ideal of any good liberal arts school
in that it stresses “learning for the sake of learning.” I don’t know how such specific evaluations of a student’s
performance can help promote that goal. I mean, is there really that much of a difference between a B+ and
an A- student? I am sure they both cared deeply about the class and tried hard to receive that grade.
I am sure they both believed in “learning for the sake of learning” and were hoping to do their best
and let fate or the professor’s judgment determine the rest. Yet, the A- student will wonder what it takes to
get an A and the B+ student will wonder what it takes to crack into the higher category. How many
more terms should the B+ student have memorized facts for a sixth instead of fifth time for him to get
a higher grade? Should the A- student have spoken five timesIn each class instead of four in order to get
an A? Does the extra effort promote “learning for the sake of learning” for either student? I doubt it. Almost
every professor rightly wishes for the student not to remember minor facts about their class, like the exact name or
date of one painting or historical treaty, but instead the effects of those items and how they shaped or influenced
the overall themes of the course. The “plus/minus” system seems to undermine that goal in making students dwell more on
the specifics rather than the general picture. True, in some classes the system works well. I can see it fine-tuning
a student’s writing skills in English classes or helping students remember all the formulas in science classes. Also, the “plus”
part of the system helps many students appropriately distinguish their efforts or improvements. We probably should keep it. But, the
“minus” really only serves to make students question what more they have to do to get to the next level.
At a school where a good portion of the student body does work hard, it really does not serve much
of a punitive role. The new system was only put in place in 1991, and I am sure that it
has benefits we do not easily realize. But we really should talk more about whether this one works towards promoting
the school’s goal of being a strong liberal arts institution.

Unfortunately, it seems as if my comment regarding self-selection in the last issue of the Davidsonian has managed to become
misconstrued due to no fault but my own. While attempting to praise the real point of self-selection, and detract the
focus from the much-hyped nudity, I have instead managed to become labeled jokingly (hopefully) as a combination voyeur/pedophile/serial killer.

Katie Sanderson

A Beautiful Wrapping

Our peers. For example, the White Rock mineral girl of 1950 was 5 feet 4 inches and weighed 140 pounds.
Today she is 5 feet 10 inches and weighs 110 pounds. We are sending mixed messages to ourselves and those
around us. We are told that a mind is really what matters, that eventually nice guys really do not finish
last, and that image is only one of several characteristics that a person is judged upon. Though it is not
blatantly stated that physical beauty is most cherished, do not lie to yourself and deny this fact. By advertising the
human body as a mystery, as an object of pure physical desire, or even worse, as an object of shame,
we are destroying a very natural and beautiful part of ourselves. Our body is a part of each and every
one of us. However, why does it have to be the primary focus of constant attention? The exterior appearances of
people change and are commercially distorted and manipulated, society’s opinion of beauty constantly fluctuates. However, when one has the ability
to accept who they are, they are at peace.

Those who know me well know that I pride myself on being a tactful and considerate person. If I have
let myself get entangled in the self-destructive and cyclical delusion of obsessing over how others perceive me, I would not
be able to see the human body as a beautiful wrapping to an even more amazing interior. We would all
be a lot happier and more confident with ourselves and others. The poisons of criticism, shame, insecurity, and jealousy would
not be used to destroy the reality of others. If you can accept the beauty within yourself, you will recognize
it in others as well. Thus, what I am proposing is not that we convert Davidson into a radical, peace-loving
community full of flaming liberals and exhibitionists. Instead, I am asking each of us to shed the definitions of external
beauty that are strangling our inner lights and devouring the goodness and beauty that lie at the core within each
of us. We need to see the human body for what it truly is: a vehicle that enables us to
share the most perfect part of ourselves with the rest of the world. We create the standard of perfection, and
thus ironically, each of us is our own demon. Love yourself; be proud of yourself; and others will follow your
lead.
