6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE | January 21, 1997

Attorney General formally rejects independent counsel for campaign financing

Attorney General Janet Reno confirmed what many pundits thought would happen all along regarding the campaign finance issues and publicly
stated that she would not seek an independent counsel to investigate electoral fund-raising practices of President Clinton or Congress. Reno
said that charges of wrongdoing aimed at the President and other top administration officials are not specific and credible enough
to trigger the independent counsel law, and she dismissed suggestions that she suffers a conflict of interest in trying to
investigate the President who appointed her.

It was rumored that the President only let Reno keep her job for the second term if she would not
use an independent counsel. Orrin Hatch (R—Utah) said, “Based on the facts and the law, I believe that an independent
counsel should be appointed to handle this investigation.” Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R—Miss.) called her decision “inexcusable.” The law
requires the attorney general to seek appointment of an independent counsel when there is specific evidence from a credible source
of wrongdoing by “covered individuals,” a category that includes the vice president, cabinet members, and officers of the election campaign.
Reno stated that there was no evidence of people being covered by the statute participating in illegal activities.

Reno said the President’s residential areas were not officially considered government property, that the Vice President was exempt for making
phone calls for contributions since he used a non-government credit card, and that none of the covered individuals had participated
in getting foreign money into the campaign funds. Reno defended her position by saying she did appoint independent counsels for
Whitewater and the travel office mismanagement. She also says that the many Justice Department and FBI officials working on investigating
the allegations are enough to find wrongdoing.

Source: Washington Post

Children’s health insurance bill might pass Congress

A bill championed by Ted Kennedy (D—Mass.) and Orrin Hatch (R—Utah) to give health care coverage to half of the
nation’s uninsured children looks as if it could pass Congress soon. In what could be the first piece of major
legislation of the 105th Congress, the bill aims to increase taxes on cigarette packs by 43 cents. The money gained
from the tax would go to giving health care insurance to five million of the nation’s uninsured children. Most Democratic
senators are behind the bill and about six Republicans have agreed to vote for it as well. The bill would
also give the federal government about $5 billion dollars in deficit reduction funds after it covers many of the intended
children.

Its main opposition comes from Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, who fears it is just “another big government program.” House
Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich (R—Ohio) thinks it is “not good to raise taxes to pay for another government program.”
Of course, congressmen from tobacco-producing states will fight against it. Senator Wendell Ford (D—Kent.) has major reservations about the bill.
Still, supporters of the bill look at it as just another way to recoup expenses paid by Medicare and Medicaid
for those whosuffer ill health due to cigarettes. It is also pro-family, anti-deficit, and modest in scale so it could
easily have a strong chance of passing. Source: Time, New York Times

CIGARETTES: ALCOHOL: HL gof yoo bakes. College Press Service

Graphics are printed on wax-resistant paper and are ready to clip out and paste up. Halftones are screened 85 lines
to the inch.

Mountain Creek Grove Nudist Resort Spring Carnival
Saturday, April 26 Noon-11 p.m.
Mountain Creek Grove, Cleveland, GA 30528.
For more information, call 1-800-863-NUDE.

International ...
Pope visits Sarajevo. Pope John Paul II gave a service in Sarajevo and called for reconciliation between the factions in
that region. Just hours before he arrived, police removed mines that were on his route between the airport and the
city. Thousands packed his service and braved frigid weather to hear his calls for “not just material reconstruction (of the
area) alone, (but also) spiritual rebuilding of minds and hearts.” The Pope had been planning the trip for many weeks
since the war had stopped. — New York Times

New Legislature starts work in Hong Kong
China’s appointed legislature for Hong Kong took its first lawmaking step in defiance of opposition from the territory’s pro-democracy lobby.
The Chinese government established the provisional legislature and has given it the job of amending local laws before Hong Kong
returns to China on July 1st. The bill dealt with new holidays the Chinese government wants to institute. The actions
went on peacefully amidst protests from the pro-democracy groups who questioned why Hong Kong had two legislatures working side by
side. — New York Times

National ...
Difficult issue unresolved in sweatshop agreement
Many major clothing apparel manufacturers, such as Nike, Reebok, L.L. Bean, and Liz Claiborne, have agreed to publicly monitor their
industry’s practices regarding the use of sweatshop labor in their global factories. The move was spurred on with a bargain
by human rights and labor groups who are fighting to let the public become more aware of how their clothes
are made and which companies violate human rights most often in their manufacturing practices. Still, the groups are calling for
some sort of independent agency to be the official watchdog and still might want a minimum wage for this type
of factory labor. The companies insist they can watch themselves and are hesitant to agree to wage standards. — New
York Times

THE Crossword
ACROSS
3 Doorway
20 Weds in secret
22 Rim
24 Expletive
25 Hair cream
26 Wrist decoration
29 Distinct
33 Mexican cheer
34 Irritate
35 Stop
36 Look over
37 The sun
38 Carried
39 Roman statesman
40 Put into bondage
41 Weight inspector
42 Help along
44 Pierce with dagger
46 Unproductive
47 School
48 Poker stake
51 Ripened
55 Included with
56 Alma mater
“Clair de —”

© 1997 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All rights reserved.

ANSWERS
Oo |z|w iz ojajwjo 'Z\O\< Gogo za <jc|>\a = : me f<la lw O00 OOF FQGHOG ny. om) & g
wit : ~|a\2 ge eg ad | od ie le fe A} OO i<j 4 ‘gageses 3 2 i jus
FGI) — we [ [ur oo oo [ws jz lolc BOOoOO Ci E ulviHio if i i i SESALSSSALRESBSVBRB ra
i : i t 51 A.uing house F 5 i
