6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

Theta Alpha Jehovah
Frat Initiation Rites

Spend an afternoon on the shell on the front porch.

Wake up in 69 with Jordan on your lap.

Drink Mountain Dew and gin.

Drink Natty Light.

Drink Hurricane.

Drink Maker’s Mark.

Drink anything distilled in Kentucky.

Drink anything with an umlaut in the name.

Drink anything.

Drink it straight.

Drink it naked.

Drink it unidentified.

Drink it while Jesus winks at you.

Wink back.

Drink it while dancing around the ottoman.

Drink it while making web pages.

Drink it while making whoopee.

Smoke it.

Smoke while you do anything, especially all of the above.

Wave your arms to “We Are the World” and mean it.

Confess to the Wise Finch who’s in the tub while you’re on the toilet.

Eat lots of brownies.

Sup with the German department and their spouses.

Develop an intense phallus fetish.

Play “adult” Sorry! Learn the rules later.

Turn to the medicine cabinet for entertainment when beer money runs out.

Sex is evil
from page 5

here do. Then they’ll be all right.”
Smiling, she asks, “Would you like a condom to take with you? You never know what might happen between the
Student Health Center and your car.”

On the other side of the coin, the students who were not arrested have a few things to say. An
anonymous former member of IVCF’s executive board says, “Yes, it’s true. I haven’t fornicated or committed any crimes against nature,
nor do I intend to.”

After a pause, he continues, “Wait, does kissing count?” It does not. “Okay, then I haven’t done anything illegal. After
we’d been dating for a year, my girlfriend and I kissed once, but it felt sinful, so we didn’t do
it again.”

He shrugs and says, “I guess we’re just saving ourselves for marriage. When you belong to Jesus Christ, you can’t
go around sinning and giving yourself away to other people. Like the Savior said, ‘You cannot serve both God and
mammon,’ and sex is mammon, plain and simple. I don’t mind, though. When I think of how God loves me
extra since I don’t practice pre-marital sex or pre-engagement kissing, it makes me so happy that I can wait. No
problem.”

Junior Eric Sapp says, “No, you don’t need to quote me as an anonymous source. I’m proud of every single
public stand I take, because I’m always right. What’s that? Oh yeah, what do I think about the arrests?”

He nods his head sternly and says, “It’s about time somebody started cracking down on those ungodly slouches. We can’t
go around having sex with whomever we want. That’s anarchy, and that’s the first step toward destroying our great American
democracy. I love America. I’m an American. I’m proud to be an American, and we can’t have people going around
breaking the law just because they don’t like it.”

He continues, “The fact of the matter is, I’m better than all those sinners. That’s the truth, and if you
don’t believe me, ask my close personal friend God, or just read the Bible. That’s the only book you ever
really need to read. It’s the only one ever written that is without flaw, and you just have to look
to Sodom and Gomorrah to see what God thinks about immorality.”

Senior Stephanie Moses, one of the former IVCF executive board members who was not charged, says, “Bless you.”

The college has hired a team of

go back to page one, sucker.

HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA

CALL TODAY: 800-229-4842

LITTLE GNOME PROFESSORS

Following his ultra-successful theme-series (Great Men in History, Founders of Faith, Gospel Writers), Tom Clark has released a limited edition
Davidson College faculty collection. The collection features your favorite professors from all your favorite departments. Below appears a representative sample
of the series’ offerings.
