5 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

Dan Creekman, Scott Addison, Brian Peddie, John McClane

A Little Help from Our Friends

We, the residents of 507 Concord Road, would like to begin this letter by thanking the Davidson community, especially the
residents around 507 Concord, for giving us the opportunity to move in the middle of the semester just as reviews
and papers are piling up. Obviously, we are a serious disruption to their quaint little community and should not be
living close to any Davidson staff or Davidson residents. We appreciate the fact that they brought this to our attention
by, for all practical purposes, evicting us.

As the students can attest, we threw several house parties that sometimes even overflowed into the street and the front
porches of our neighbors. Our radios ran as loud as possible all night, and we were continually streaking down Concord
Road. We are, without a doubt, unworthy to live on Concord Road, and we are grateful that our neighbors pointed
this out to us.

In all seriousness, we are truly appalled at the behavior and underhandedness of some of the Davidson staff and residents
who feel it is in their best interest not to have us here. Yet they refuse to make their protests
or even their identities known to us—the ones most affected by their petty grievances and prejudice. We realize that in
most cases “prejudice” is a word reserved for race relations, but in this case, it is truly applicable since we
were prejudged. Those around us were complaining about our presence even before we moved in.

Once we were here, the driving force behind this housing issue was the fear of setting a precedent of RLO
housing students off-campus in the Davidson community. By moving four of us out, they have actually created more off-campus housing
for students. One issue that the Davidson community seemed to ignore was Davidson community pride themselves on the close relationship
between students and residents. This housing issue displays the hypocrisy of the Davidson community. They reap all the benefits of
this relationship, but obviously from a safe distance.

In addition, Davidson proclaims a very close relationship between students and staff. This must apply only while on campus or
in class, as we do not seem worthy enough to live close to them. In true Davidson community fashion, we
have already heard of four complaints concerning our move to Thompson Street, and we haven’t even moved in yet!

In addition to the Davidson staff and the neighbors around 507 Concord, we would be remiss if we did not
include the Davidson Zoning Board, whose ruling is the direct cause of our move. They had no power to move
all eight students out, therefore they opted to move four to a new location. This seems to be rather warped
logic as students still remain in the house. As a result, the other four students will now occupy another house
in Davidson. Therefore, instead of minimizing their “losses,” they have actually increased them.

One of the only complaints was that we parked on the road, which, by the way, is fully legal, thus
making their complaint unfounded and trivial. In no way does this apply to all faculty since we have visited several
professors at their homes, nor does it apply to all of our neighbors, because the ones directly beside us have
been very understanding.

Marian Woodworth

Get Excited

In response to and in support of Josh Roberts’ article last week, I am writing to clarify the things he
said and to add a few of my own. None quite so snappy as his surprise at the end, but
worthwhile nonetheless.

If you were puzzled when you got to the end of Josh’s article and realized that every compliment that preceded
the last sentence was devoted to the women’s basketball team, maybe this will make things a little clearer: the women’s
basketball team is indeed a power to be reckoned with and one that treats their opponents as they should be
treated. Everyone on the team has had a dazzling performance in at least one game this season. Have you seen
any of them? Have you seen Jen O’Brien find Jamie Brown for the winning shot? Have you seen Carolyn Kirsch
steal the ball and drive down the court for a layup? Or Jen O’Brien? Or Katy? Have you seen Monica
Winter’s self-sacrificing dive to save a play? Have you seen the blocks that frustrate the other teams? How about the
rebounds? If you haven’t, by God, go to a game.

And then another point. Josh said it last week. Mike and Dan and Aaron talk about it on TV—the pathetic
attendance levels have got to improve. These games are good. These girls are good. They deserve your support. It’s funny
that people who spend a few hours in class and then have an entire afternoon free can’t seem to find
the hour-and-a-bit of time needed to watch some or all of one of these games. What do you do all
day?

Here’s one solution that should be pretty acceptable. Everyone loves a study break (you'd be lying if you said you
didn’t), so make one serve a dual purpose. Jump up and down and cheer to get your aerobic exercise for
the day. Heck—make it social, too. Take your friends. Take anyone you run into on your way out the door.
And when you get there, make yourself known. You don’t have to be a painted-face, insult-screaming maniac, but make some
noise. The only thing worse than people not being there is a fan who just sits there. So cheer—it’s fun!
And it helps the team. If you feel inclined, go grab one of those dots and bother the other team
during their free throws (okay, so that doesn’t have a high success rate of causing mistakes, but be impulsive and
silly for once).

Are you getting excited yet? I really can’t think of another way to say it. Find the time. Make the
time. Go. Maybe I’m biased because I’m a female athlete, but women’s athletics at Davidson areToo often and too easily
ignored by people who frequently go to men’s athletic events. You can change that. The zoning laws require no more
than four unrelated persons to occupy a house at one time. Another issue brought before the Davidson Zoning Board by
the residents was the fact that property values of neighboring houses would decrease as a result of students living nearby.
However, the property value of 507 Concord has actually increased due to the renovations RLO has made. Davidson College and
the (the ones we would naturally assume would have the most objections to our presence) have voiced no complaints. Many
who read this may note a lack of criticism towards RLO and this is not unintentional. True, they may have
“dropped the ball” initially, but they have also done more than anyone else to make this situation bearable for us.
They have received all of the complaints and were as angry and astonished at the behavior of the neighbors, community,
and the Zoning Board as we were. Getting the reprieve from the zoning ordinances was supposed to be a formality,
but the esteemed members of this “tight” community felt otherwise. Needless to say, RLO has been a big help after
the fact and we thank them for that.

The current situation surrounding Concord 507 is a travesty in the relations between the college and the community. We’ve been
asked to possibly invite some of these people over to get to know us—why should we bother? The fact that
we even make such a statement should be a reflection of the tension created between the student body and the
community. This can be seen not only in our discontent expressed in this letter, but also in other letters and
articles in The Davidsonian. We hope that our neighbors are proud of their childish behavior and can properly bask in
their glory as they watch us, on Saturday, move all of our belongings out. We would like to thank them
again for forcing us to move and demonstrating that adulthood does not automatically disqualify one from juvenile tantrums.

Ken May

The Trouble with Roommates

The trouble with roommates is that you can’t live with 'em, and you can't live without ‘em. What am I
talking about? Well, you know how it goes. Freshman year you’re paired by a magical computer with some “compatible” person
with whom you supposedly have so much in common. Of course, “supposedly” is the operative word here, since freshman roommate
pairing is considered a smashing success if you and your roommate are still speaking to each other by the end
of the year. And then comes sophomore year when you get to hand-pick your roommate with at least some insight
as to what they’re like. Sure, there’s still the initial awkwardness in getting to know each other's habits, but no
big deal. Come junior year the two of you are inseparable and perfectly assimilated to living with each other. Finally,
you have some peace. But no! Senior year brings with it a whole new complication in domesticity: the apartments and
two new roommates. Certainly, in most cases these new roommates are good friends or at least close acquaintances, so it
shouldn’t be too much trouble, right? WRONG!!

As I know many of you have discovered, life in the apartments carries with it several challenges to peaceful living.
In fact, I’m not even sure such a thing is possible down in Martin Court. Take, for instance, the topic
of cleanliness. Now of course everyone wants to have a clean apartment (especially me). But the catch is, no one
wants to clean it. We tried a cleaning rotation the first week and it worked marvelously... for the first week.
After that, things went to hell. Like with the dishes. It’s somebody’s day to do them, yet this person protests,
“I haven’t eaten at the apartment all week.” But you’re the only one who cooks those beans that are now
fossilized into the pot. Or better yet, it’s your turn to scrub the toilet. “No way man, I never use
the bathroom in the apartment.” Sorry, you never told me you had immaculate digestion. You think I jest, but these
are scenes from real life in 304B and every other apartment on campus.

And then there’s the television. So what do you all watch? We watch only three things: Singled Out, SportsCenter, and
the Weather Channel. Odd? Maybe it seems that way until you realize how well informed we are on such important
subjects as blind dates, ACC scores, and the relative percent humidity in Vermont. And God help you if you’d ever
suggest changing the channel. It’s a smorgasbord of conflicting tastes, I tell you.

What about the privacy issue? Where do you draw the line between personal autonomy and not teeing off your roommates?
For instance, one of us has no problem hanging out partially naked in the common room. But boy does it
offend other roommates’ more delicate sensibilities. And what about unannounced entering? Like when somebody’s girlfriend knows the code and enters
the apartment without knocking (and catches you watching Singled Out), but then knocks on her boyfriend’s bedroom door. Isn’t it
ironic, don’t ya think?

So what am I getting at? You wonder how four people can ever live together without absolutely ripping each other
to shreds. Actually, as you’ve figured out, it’s not all that hard (as evidenced by the dearth of domestic violence
on this campus). Sure it takes some getting used to, and certain habits may never cease to get under your
proverbial skin. But it’s a valuable lesson in getting along with others and tolerating each other's differences. And after all,
the magic of the whole thing is the camaraderie that flourishes. The late-night rap sessions, the hearty laughs over a
bottle of Jack, the surprise birthday parties, and the general revelry that could never happen without apartments and roommates and
all those annoying habits. Thus I consider it a tradeoff, and a damn good one at that: best friends and
good times for some dirty dishes and grungy bathrooms. Of course, if this was my planet, the floor would be
vacuumed three times a day and there would be no Weather Channel. I can still dream, can’t I?
