THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997 17

Women’s tennis drops defending conference champion Eagles
Marks and Cheatwood seal win with doubles victory

By Kerry Brophy
Staff Writer

Tensions ran high until the last volley on March 25 against Georgia Southern, as the women’s tennis team topped the defending Southern Conference champion Eagles. Ga. Southern and the Wildcats were knotted at three after six singles matches. Davidson’s Ashley Maner emerged victorious against Aude Boulle, 6-3, 6-0. Clara Marks also closed out a win over Melissa Brown, 6-3, 6-3.

The tournament’s most exciting moment arrived as both teams battled for the doubles victory. Ga. Southern secured the number one doubles position while Davidson’s Creecy Chandler and Ashley Maner grabbed a win in the number three doubles spot. But the final outcome remained undecided until the duo of Marks and Claire Cheatwood beat the Eagle duo of Scarbrough and Brown, 8-6.

“This was an extremely exciting victory for Davidson tennis,” said coach Caroline Price. “We are one of the teams that has a legitimate shot at a conference championship.” Several tournaments remain this spring before the Wildcats vie for the league title at the conference championships April 17-20 at Furman in Greenville, S.C.

Staff photo
Creecy Chandler wallops a forehand during a recent match.

The football program will be celebrating its 100th year next fall, and the Athletics Promotions department is looking for help from students. Anybody interested in creating a logo or slogan to mark the season should contact Alec McAlister, Director of Athletics Marketing and Promotions, at x2781.

DC football celebrates 100th birthday

The logo needs to be completed this week, but slogan ideas can be submitted between now and next semester. Winners will receive a prize yet to be determined. McAlister is working on a gameday promotion, similar to the Mustang shoot-out at basketball games, that could be worth up to $100,000.
— Michael Kruse

Women from page 16

game’s participants could have been aliens; it was still a tremendous display of basketball. Period. And our very own women’s squad was synonymous with drama this winter. As far as Coach Filar was concerned, they made things a little too exciting.

So there I was watching the four best women’s collegiate basketball teams in the country fighting and scrapping their way to their sport’s pinnacle; watching Tennessee’s Chamique Holdsclaw — known as the female Michael Jordan because of the expectation that she will one day revolutionize her sport — rip Notre Dame’s and ODU’s defenses to shreds; watching two basketball teams pass the ball, catch the ball, and shoot the ball.

So while the men’s game winces and prepares for another mass exodus of underage talent to the NBA, the women’s game can look forward to two more years of Holdsclaw. Because for Holdsclaw and her peers, college still means four years and an education. And while the men desperately try to salvage what once was, the women continue to build something special.

Watching the games in Cincy, you got the distinct feeling that the four teams were battling each other for this year’s hardware, but at the same time working together for a greater goal. Every player, every coach, every media member who follows the sport regularly — they are all ambassadors of the game, constantly making statements more powerful than any empty words put forth in Title IX. In this quest for equality, actions truly speak louder than words.

Dearing shatters school javelin mark

By Michael Kruse
Sports Editor

Dan Dearing broke the school record in the javelin on March 29 at the Emory University Classic in Atlanta, recording a throw of 184 feet, six inches.

“I was really happy with the way I threw,” said the sophomore standout. “But I still have a lot of improvement to make before conference (April 18-19 at Boone).”

Dearing’s record-setting throw highlighted the meet, as the Wildcats scored 10 points and finished 15th out of 23 teams. The squad had an improved showing Saturday at Winthrop. The 4 x 400-meter relay team of Ken Howard, Roland Williams, Karim Lawrence, and Dearing - running togetherFor the first time this year due to various injuries, won its race. Williams and Deng finished second in the 200 and 400 hurdles, respectively. Dearing also turned in a third-place performance in the javelin. Steve Hsieh, Williams, Lawrence, and Stan Baker placed fourth in the 4 x 100, and Baker notched a fourth in the 400 hurdles. Davidson travels to Durham Friday and Saturday for the Duke Invitational. “It’s an awesome meet, by far the biggest meet we go to,” said Dearing. “It’s the best competition we’ll see all year. There are a lot of world-class guys there.”

Women’s track shows improvement
By Bos Lonergan
Staff Writer

The women’s track team continued their improvement with successful meets at Emory and Winthrop the past two weekends. The Wildcats placed 13th out of 22 teams at the Emory Classic. Danielle Mall led the squad, taking second in discus (40.84 meters). Suzy Burr cracked the Top Ten Performers list in javelin with a throw of 22.22 meters. Two of the more versatile Wildcats, Beth Goldstein and Schaap Freeman, each competed in four events and both turned in Top Ten performances. Kate Feldmeier set a school record at Winthrop with a 2:27.45 performance in the 800. Jamilah Sawyer also had a strong meet, finishing second in the 110 hurdles and fourth in the 400 hurdles. Allie Curran ran extremely well in the 5000, placing third out of a group of over 20 runners. Captain Laura Burkholder soared to a fifth-place finish in the long jump with a leap of 15.06 meters. “These were two good meets to get us warmed up for Duke (this weekend in Durham),” said Kelly Kiefer.

Hot streak propels optimistic squad into last half of season
From page 16

“I felt we played really hard the first game,” Amanda Fleck said. “It just went the other way. We didn’t know how to work the offense. We tried to work it better the next game, and we did that.” Two hours later, the team took the field again and plodded through the first half with undermanned Longwood. Throughout the frame, the team would almost put the match out of reach, only to relax and have Longwood reel off a string of goals. Still, they held a 10-6 lead going into the break. “We all just decided that by letting them score and not dropping back, we were just making ourselves more tired and giving ourselves more running because we were so tired,” Hogan explained. “I think we just realized to do less running we needed to play tougher and then we could rest a little more. So we stepped it up at halftime because we didn’t want to run that much.” The refocused team dominated the first ten minutes after the break, pushing their lead to 18-7, and then cruised to the victory. “We definitely did much better (in the second half). We realized the goalie came out and that we had to put it around her instead of shooting at her,” assistant coach Bryn Chave said. “We worked as a team and got the ball in the goal. That’s what we needed to do.” Hogan led the team in scoring Saturday (six goals, three assists), while Fleck (six, one), Katie Williams (five, two), and Allison Rhoads (five, two) all tallied seven points for the Wildcats. The team collected three wins over break, including a huge 17-16 win over Virginia Tech on March 29. The Hokies thumped the Wildcats 22-4 last season. Davidson also dropped Notre Dame, 21-7, on Monday and Duquesne, 18-3, on Tuesday. “I think we’re playing better,” scoring leader Fleck (25 goals, 10 assists) said. “We’re learning from the experience of playing these good teams first and then expanding from that. We have a lot of teams coming up where it’s going to be close like Roanoke. We hope we can break .500, and another big goal is to beat Duke (in the season finale April 30 at Durham).”

Staff photo: Lindsay Hughes cradles the ball during Davidson’s first game Saturday at Richardson Field. They fell to Roanoke in this tightly contested match, but thumped Longwood later that afternoon.