2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Robert Hall Morrison
1836-1840

Samuel Williamson
1840-1854

Drury Lacy
1855-1860

John L. Kirkpatrick
1860-1866

John Rennie Blake
1871-1877

John Bunyan Shearer
1886-1901

By ANN CUP
News Editor

The task of finding a new president was formidable. Twenty trustees, five students, five faculty, and three administrators worked 18
months to find the right person.

“One of the amazing things about the Search Committee given how diverse it was, given the many constituencies of the
College and the strength of personalities represented, was that there was absolute enthusiasm for Bobby Vagt,” said Math Professor and
member of the Presidential Search Committee Ben Klein.

The committee voted unanimously to approve Vagt.

By Ann Cup
News Editor

The Vagt women, Ruth Anne, Ashley, and Lindsey, were playing with Ashley’s large puppy as I approached. They had rented
a minivan and Ashley and Lindsey were getting ready to go to Baskin Robbins for ice cream. No one looked
like she was going to move from Houston to Davidson by July 1 to start a new life in what
Ashley calls “the birdcage,” or the President’s house. Yet, Ruth Anne was ready for the change.

“I had said that I will definitely stay in Texas for Lindsey through high school, but it would be pleasant
to be back to the East Coast after that,” she says. “This [the position for President opening and Lindsey graduating
from high school] is an amazing coincidence of time and we are very fortunate. It will be very different from
our Houston life, but very welcomed.”

Ruth Anne started her own story slowly, “I graduated from Queens College in ‘69. I majored in economics, but I
really have never used that degree,” she says laughingly. “I was born in Alabama, lived in the same hometown until
I went to Queens, and then I never went back.”

She was married in December of her senior year in college and lived in a renovated dentist’s office above a
bank on Main Street in Davidson. From then on, she accompanied her husband in his rising professional career.

Stopping her narrative, she asked Lindsey about her plans to get back to the airport.

Ruth Anne’s youngest daughter applied early admission to come to Davidson. At that time no one speculated that her father
would be the next president.

“This [the Vagt’s new role forming during their daughter’s freshman year] is going to be so hard on Lindsey. I
want her to have her own college experience which she wants to have too. That will be easier said than
done, though,” Ruth Anne says.

The role of the President’s spouse is not clearly defined. Ruth Anne intends “to support whatever the college is involved
with at the time. I certainly hope to have an idea of my own and a life of my own
on the side. I think Missy [Kuykendall] has done that very well.”

Missy’s advice to Ruth Anne was “to really ease into it and see what is best for me. There’s no
pressure to be overcommitted right away.”

MEET THE PRESIDENT

Diverse committee makes unanimous decision

“For me, as a member of the Presidential Search Committee, I wanted to find somebody who I was sure was
going to ensure that teaching and learning are the absolute core of what we do at Davidson,” said French Professor
Homer Sutton who was also a member of the Search Committee. “Someone whose leadership, vision, compassion, spirituality, and spirit of
service would allow us to continue our tradition in the areas of service and compassion. I think I was also
looking for someone who had a good sense of humor, someone who loved Davidson.”

During Vagt’s weekend visit, Chairman of the Presidential Search Committee Larry Dagenhart said, “We wanted a president who could do
the job and be the job.”

“The being part of the job was something we were not going to compromise. We wanted top-of-the-line character and integrity,
a president who was committed body and soul to perpetuating and improving what the College is and what it stands
for,” said Klein.

In evaluating the “doing” requirements for the position, Klein and the rest of the committee looked at a variety of
skills such as fundraising, management, acquaintance of trends in education, knowledge of what is happening in the Presbyterian Church (USA),
and other issues.

“No one person was going to satisfy every single one of these criteria, so we were willing to compromise on
some of these,” said Klein. “We realized that this was sort of an idealized checklist and there wasn’t any candidate
who satisfied every single criterion.”

Vagt’s eclectic positions in the private and public sectors and his religious background combined to make him the most outstanding
candidate. Not that there were not reservations about his lack of experience with higher education: “Although he is coming from
outside the academy without a Ph.D., he has such appreciation for Davidson’s heritage, for teaching, and learning that he will
devote his energies to ensuring that liberal arts education remains absolutely the primary function of this college,” said Sutton.

Klein warns that the hardest part of the job is still ahead. “A lot of people have been coming up
to me to congratulate me on all of the work we [the Presidential Search Committee] did,” he said. “I want
people to come up to me two years from now and say, ‘You’ve done a good job.’”

Bill Giduz
