THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

SGA votes to elect ATC officers, trustee representatives

By Mary Clare JALONICK
Executive Editor

The SGA voted Tuesday to elect the Activities Tax Council Vice Chair and the students who serve on Trustee Committees.
In the past, the SGA president has appointed students to fill these positions.

The Activities Tax Council, which allocates funding to all student organizations that request it, is chaired by a student for
a calendar year. Junior Patricia Evans has served as Vice Chair for the last year under Rebekah Peeples and will
head up the committee for 1997. The elected student will become chair for 1998.

Those elected to trustee committees will begin their tenure in April. Students sit on the buildings and grounds, admissions and
financial aid, athletic policy, and institutional advancement committees.

The SGA also voted to elect a treasurer each year. The position will be non-voting, but paid. This person will
maintain financial records of the SGA and cosign all checks or funds from the SGA treasury.

In addition, they voted that four students should be elected to the CCRL instead of three.

SGA president Warren Buford feels that election to these positions will help students to learn more about what committees are
doing on campus. “We are trying to give students a little more power and response,” he says. “These positions are
important.”

Cosmic keeps coffee coming after short winter hiatus

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Despite rumors that the establishment had closed its doors for good at the end of December, Cosmic Coffee House, located
on Main Street in Davidson, is alive and well and open daily for business.

Cosmic Coffee House owner Nancy Gray relates that the business was simply on holiday hiatus from December 20 through January
6, notification of which was posted on the front door of the Main Street eatery.

According to Gray, the hiatus provided time for the seasonal shutdown of her other Cosmic Coffee House in Blowing Rock,
North Carolina. However, the Blowing Rock Cosmic Coffee House will not reopen again this spring. Cosmic Coffee House’s ownership has
instead chosen to concentrate its full efforts on servicing the Davidson community of which it has been a part for
just over a year.

While town residents and members of Davidson College’s faculty and staff have provided Cosmic Coffee House with a solid customer
base, Gray says she is continually searching for ways to entice more students to patronize her establishment on a regular
basis. “We are really quite discouraged that only about 1% of the student body comes here daily,” says Gray.

Gray says that a chief part of the rationale for locating the Cosmic Coffee House in Davidson was that the
small, close-knit campus community would provide the perfect setting for a mutually beneficial relationship to thrive.

“We are always pleased to host functions and activities that arise out of student or faculty initiative,” says Gray.

VOLUNTEER FAIR

Sophomore Yu-Jay Harris beams as Sophomore Richard Kleinman reads up on volunteer possibilities at the Volunteer Fair held Wednesday.

Cosmic coffee will not take down their signs.

SGA allocates self 5% increase in budget

By Mary Clare JALONICK
Executive Editor

In a vote this Tuesday, the SGA decided to give itself an automatic 5% of Activities Tax Council Funding each
year.

This move gives the SGA a considerable raise.

Last year, they requested 4.4% of the total budget of $292,305 and received $11,750, or around 4%.

Five percent of this budget would be $14,615.25 — a raise in funding of $2,865.25.

The increase will be higher should the total amount allocated rise as it traditionally has.

President Warren Buford says that this move is needed to “solidify the link between the SGA and the ATC.”

The ATC is a committee of the SGA, but the SGA has traditionally had to petition for funds from the
ATC. Buford feels that this current procedure leaves room for the SGA to “strongarm” the ATC into giving them higher
funding each year.

With the change, he feels, the SGA will have an automatic percentage and petitioning will not be necessary.

Buford says that the new administration will be responsible for allocating these new funds, but hopes that they will go
toward planning SGA events, giving non-funded organizations money for special projects, and, most importantly, support for a rides program.

Elections next Monday for the positions of SGA President, SGA Vice President, Union Board President, Union Board VP-Social, Union Board
VP-Co-Curricular, Defense Advisor, Student Solicitor, ROAD President, ROAD Vice President, Student Conduct Council, CCRL, Review Board, ATC Vice-Chairperson, and Trustee
Committees on Admission & Financial Aid, Building and Grounds, Athletic Policy, and Institutional Advancement

Sign up in the Dean of Students’ Office by Tuesday afternoon.
