2 THE DAVIDSONIAN — NEWS BRIEFS

Professor T.C. Price Zimmermann wins American History Association Book Award

Early this month at the one hundred and eleventh annual meeting of the American Historical Association in New York City, T.C. Price Zimmermann, Professor of History at Davidson, was awarded the Marraro Prize in recognition of his 1995 work, “Paolo Giovo: The Historian and the Crisis of Sixteenth-Century Italy.” Each year the Marraro Prize recognizes the best work in any era of Italian History. Zimmermann is the 25th recipient of the award, which was established in 1973.

Six new Patterson Court SGA Senators will begin terms this week

Six new SGA Senators will represent various eating houses and fraternities, beginning this week. Loralea Davidson will represent Connor House; Sanders Hearne will represent PiKA; Thomas Greene will represent SAE. In addition, Greg Noland was chosen to represent Sig Ep, Heather Brown returns this semester to represent Rusk, and Patrick Damon is the BSC’s new SGA Senator.

SGA Senate approves by-laws change regarding chartering student organizations

The proposed by-laws change drafted by the SGA’s By-laws Committee passed a Senate vote last Tuesday evening. Sophomore Ann Harriot Fisher, Committee Chairperson, introduced the proposed changes, which deal with the SGA’s criteria for granting charters to student organizations. Senators and student observers debated the proposed changes until a vote was called. See next week’s Davidsonian for a full explanation of the changes.

Memorial Fund Established for 25-year assistant to Davidson’s ROTC program

The English Department at UNC Charlotte is establishing a memorial fund for Garland Keever, who died December 21 at his Statesville home. Keever was employed by UNCC after first serving Davidson’s ROTC program for 25 years. Upon arriving at UNCC, he served as Administrative Assistant for UNCC’s Army ROTC program, and then acted as Departmental Secretary to the English Department there. The fund will be used for the Garland Keever Student Award for Humorous Writing to be awarded annually by the English Department at UNC Charlotte. Anyone interested in contributing to the fund may send checks payable to the Garland Keever Memorial Fund, English Dept., Chris Arvidson, UNCC, Charlotte, NC 28223.

New Patterson Court Council Elections

PCC elections were held Sunday afternoon. Hallie Pitkin from Rusk is the new President, John Hawk (PiKA) - Vice-President, Steinen Gerla (Rusk) - Treasurer, Jessica Bigazzi (Connor) - Secretary, Jean Boehmler (Warner) - Sergeant in Arms.

NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997

In focus ... NEW PROFESSORS

Maxine Kumin, poetry evangelist

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

"I am a poetry evangelist," says this semester’s McGee Visiting Professor of Writing Maxine Kumin. She is a mother of three, author of 20 children’s books, 11 collections of poetry, four novels, and a number of essays and short stories. While she has been here, Kumin has enjoyed the courteous and studious atmosphere of the campus, and the North Carolina climate. She comments, “I am very impressed with the students.” Currently, she is teaching two courses in the writing of poetry, one at the beginning level and one more advanced.

Kumin received her undergraduate education at Radcliffe College where she majored in History and Literature, and went on to graduate school where she studied Comparative Literature. Her poetry first received national recognition in 1973 when she received the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry for a collection entitled Up Country. She then continued to win praise from the literary community by winning the Borestone Mountain Award for Best Poems of 1976, TheAmerican Academy and Institute of Arts & Letters Award in 1980, a Fellowship to the Academy of American Poets in 1985, the 1994 Poets’ Prize, and the 1996 Centennial Award from Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. She is the chancellor of the Academy of American Poets, was the Master Artist at the Atlantic Center for the Arts in 1984, and has taught at colleges including Tufts, Columbia, Princeton, and Randolph-Macon. She previously taught here in 1980 as the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Professor. “Maxine was chosen for this Anna Judy professorship because she is one of America’s greatest living poets and is a thrilling teacher,” says Anthony Abbott, chairperson of the English department. “It’s like bringing a master musician to the music department. Her presence will inspire students to develop their own creative abilities and skills.” Kumin encourages students to “read poetry, write poetry, make poetry a part of their lives,” adds Abbott.

“I found that art history is the best way to view the world.” Elizabeth Chew: Art for life

By IAN HUMMEL
Staff Writer

This semester Davidson welcomes to its Art History department Elizabeth Chew, a visiting professor and current doctoral candidate at UNC-Chapel Hill. Chew earned her bachelor’s degree from Yale University and her master’s from the University of London. Before coming to Davidson, she spent seven years as a museum curator in Washington, D.C. She says she came here because, “I wasn’t satisfied working in museums; I wanted to go back into a more academic setting, and I’m happy now to have the opportunity to teach.”

Of her interest in art history, Chew says, “I was very lucky in that I got to travel a lot when I was a child. I was fascinated by art, especially by old buildings and architecture. When I went to Yale, I found that art history was the best way to learn about the world and what I wanted to know about it. I was especially interested in what people created; physical artifacts as opposed to literature were fascinating.”

In one of her classes, “Gender in the History of Art,” Chew incorporates her own and other aspects of feminism. “I’ve considered feminism as part of the way I do art history since I was a sophomore or junior because of a professor I had at Yale. The course [on gender in art] focuses on three parts: images of women, women as artists, and women as patrons of art,” says Chew.

Chew praises Davidson and its style of learning, saying, “I love it. It’s very friendly. I like the fact that the students seem to expect to have a one-on-one relationship with their professors. There’s a lot to be said about a college where you can get full attention from faculty as an undergraduate.”

Food for Thought: Don't Weigh Your Self Esteem
Monday, January 27, 8 pm, 900 Room
Scenes from "Skinny Girls" followed by shared experiences.

Wednesday, January 29, 7:30 pm, 900 Room
Panel Discussion featuring speakers who have experienced eating disorders. Come learn how to help a friend.

Thursday, January 30, 12 noon, Harrison Room, Vail Commons
Dieting Facts and Fables, Come enjoy free frozen yogurt and a presentation by Sue Luke MS, RD, LDN.

The Davidsonian wishes to apologize to Anna Meadows, whose candidate statement for the office of Union Board Vice President Co-Curricular we neglected to print in our special “Elections” issue.