THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Some people used the building of the new science building as an opportunity for personal expression.
Anna Judy

Juniors trying to bring sororities to campus
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Inspired by the example recently set at Princeton University, preliminary discussions have begun concerning the possibility of bringing sororities to
the Davidson campus. Spearheading the group investigating this potential new social outlet for women are juniors Christina Rodriguez and Bonner
Mead. Both women, who are members of Rusk eating house, emphasize that their plans are only in an initial stage.

“We first approached eating house board members, and have subsequently spoken at house meetings with the intention of spreading the
word about what our hopes are,” says Mead.

To determine the level of support for their endeavor, Rodriguez and Mead recently circulated a survey within Patterson Court eating
houses, attached to their mission statement. The benefits these project leaders envision are: greater social intimacy, closer bonds of friendship,
and the gaining of national affiliations which will facilitate post-graduate networking.

Proponents of the establishment of sororities at Davidson say they in no way wish to enter a competition with eating
houses. “Eating houses will remain the dominant women’s social center on campus,” says Mead. “Sororities will be low-key social alternatives
that will serve a function which closely parallels that of fraternities on campus.” Rodriguez and Mead say they anticipate no
barrier to a woman holding membership jointly in a sorority and a Patterson Court eating house.

Essential to the sorority establishment project’s growth is approval from the Patterson Court Council, says PCC Advisor Beth Searcy. “The
project must include at least forty members who would first approach the PCC for approval, and next await the decision
of the college president with regard to the practicality of bringing a sorority to campus,” says Searcy.

Patterson Court Council President Hallie Pitkin says the collective body of supporters for sororities on campus has so far gained
no official recognition. Were Rodriguez and Mead to bring their proposal before the PCC, as is their stated intention, Pitkin
says the Greek council would most likely table the matter for further discussion. “The PCC’s voice could really only extend
so far as to say ‘We support your desire to have another social option,’” says Pitkin. According to Pitkin, the
technical steps involved in bringing a sorority to campus are quite daunting. “Ultimately,” says Pitkin, “sororities are rather limited in
their operation. Their tight alcohol restrictions must also be taken into consideration.”

“There are opportunities and challenges involved with having sororities,” says Beth Searcy, Patterson Court Advisor. “Right now, though the project
leaders are still only in the information gathering stage, I must say they seem very ambitious.”

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

Dorm reconstruction and Internet access are imminent
By KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

Just in time for Davidson’s annual housing lottery, big changes are coming to several dorms. “Irwin, Knox, and Akers hopefully
will be ready for [Internet] connection [next] week, if residents so desire,” says Residential Networking Supervisor John Reuning. Sentelle dorm
will be next in line forInternet wiring, according to Reuning. “Over the summer Sentelle will be completely remodeled,” he says.
“At that time they’ll go through, rewire and put data jacks in.” Kurt Holmes, Director of Residence Life (RLO), says
RLO will spend about one million dollars in projects this summer, with nearly half that amount devoted to improving Sentelle
dorm. “The construction won’t change the shape of the rooms [in Sentelle],” says Holmes. “Most changes will be cosmetic.” Remodeling
efforts will include installation of new draft-free windows and electrical rewiring which will provide independent 20 amp circuits for each
room. Holmes says that by the summer’s end, “we will have about quadrupled the power going into the building.” At
a cost of $70,000, Sentelle’s window project is expected to make the building more energy-efficient and improve the performance of
the building’s heating and air conditioning units. Finally, all of the building’s sinks and the lights above the sinks will
be replaced, and Sentelle has been the designated recipient of new mattresses by next fall.

RLO’s summer plans also include installation of a $45,000 air conditioning unit in Richardson dorm, replastering and repainting Little dorm,
purchasing new furniture for some dorms down the hill, and increasing the number of lofts available in dorm rooms, says
Holmes. “The rest of the summer’s work will be divided among 100 little projects,” he adds. RLO’s construction plans for
Sentelle dorm make it the only certain candidate for residence hall rewiring this summer. Reuning says he hopes Belk dorm
will be rewired for Internet access this summer as well, but the residence hall networking schedule depends on the availability
of dorms during campus summer programs.

From page 1 it is trying to solve. An all-or-nothing policy should be adopted if this is how we will
continue.” Sapp responded, “It is not pitting the two against each other. An all-or-nothing policy would risk losing Martin Luther
King Day. Both holidays would allow two significant groups [civil rights supporters and veteran’s supporters] to get the recognition they
deserve... Presenting Veteran’s Day alone would be an incomplete argument.” Other senators had problems just with the nature of the
resolution. Independent senator Matt Hobbie says, “[We] should not suspend class. [Having] speakers are enough to experience the holiday. Semesters
and classes are getting shorter while tuition is going up.” Kappa Sigma senator Connor Eldridge says, “If we had (to
recognize the holiday) by extending class one day into the summer, [the students] who signed the petition would have thought
quite differently.” Still, the SGA did come to a vote when the amendments referring to Martin Luther King Day were
struck from the resolution. The resolution was adopted by the SGA on an 18-10 margin. There were four abstentions. Five
senators had left the meeting before the vote could be taken.

When the resolution came to the Executive Council to finalize the 1999-2000 school year calendar, it was unanimously rejected. The
SGA action can only work as a suggestion and formal indication of student interest to the faculty. It had no
binding power.

WORKING ON CAMPUS THIS SUMMER? NEED HOUSING?

Summer Housing Applications Available Now In Belk Residence Hall, Room 121

Application deadlines vary according to type of employment. Questions? Contact RLO at x2341.
