THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

Humanities program undergoing potentially dramatic review
Revised program may include non-Western courses or become writing seminars —

By Sarah OGDEN
Staff Writer

Humanities, as Davidson knows it, at least, may not exist much longer.

Currently, a routine reexamination of the program is underway to determine whether it is still accomplishing its objectives, including that
of giving students a cohesive look at Western culture.

Possible changes in the program range from making relatively small revisions that would retain the fundamental structure of Humanities, to
including other cultures in the curriculum, to jettisoning the entire program and replacing it with various writing seminars for first-year
students.

At this point, said Hansford Epes, Chair of the Humanities program, the proceedings are still very informal, though last spring
the Dean of Faculty established a general schedule of deciding on revisions.

And last summer, each member of the Humanities team was asked to write a position paper on the program.

Copies of the papers are circulating among the faculty now, but are not yet available to students.

So far, the faculty is divided on the issue. Earl Edmondson, chair of Humanities 151, feels that the cohesive experience
the program currently embodies is still valuable, saying that students must learn about their own culture before they can understand
others’.

He is quick to acknowledge, however, that there isn’t always enough time to cover such a broad topic as Western
culture.

“We can’t give attention to as many aspects of the culture as we want to,” Edmondson said, “which means that
some parts of it that we still cover get awfully thin in some ways.”

Edmondson also points out that, as graduate school training has become more specialized, some professors have grown reluctant to teach
an interdisciplinary course that may “dilute” their specialization.

Robin Barnes, co-chair of Humanities 250 and a staunch defender of the program, says that Humanities has taken much unfair
criticism lately, based not upon faults in the program, but rather on changes in demands on the faculty.

Like Edmondson, Barnes feels that as the faculty becomes more professionalized, interdisciplinary courses such as Humanities become increasingly frustrating to
teach, and make too many demands on their time—with too few rewards.

Barnes thinks that the program should survive as something not too different from its current form, since the format allows
students to experience a broad chronological survey of major Western texts in their historical context.

He disputes the claim that such a chronological survey is outdated, because the staff is always free to experiment with
new texts and assignments, and the potential flexibility of the program is enormous.

Other virtues of Humanities as it is now, according to Barnes, include exposing students to professors in various disciplines, forcing
a dialogue among the faculty, making students aware of powerful forces in Western society, and teaching composition.

Epes feels that another strong point of the program is that it attempts to lend coherence to core requirements by
giving students the opportunity to see how various disciplines work together.

Weaknesses in the program, Barnes says, are a direct result of the problems.

He feels that faculty members need more incentive to take the time and dedication needed to revise the program, and
that compromise is essential in deciding how the program should be revised.

Robert Manning, a past holder of the Humanities Chair, refused to comment.

Others involved in the program could not be reached for questioning.

Epes said that Humanities “needs to change and renew every year,” and that lately the program has not been as
“vigorously renewed” as is desirable, which makes a re-examination of Humanities necessary.

In any case, it appears that Humanities will soon be undergoing revisions.

The only question that remains is, how drastic will they be?

DELIVERY NOW HERE AT THE OUTPOST

ONE DOLLAR EXTRA
CASH, CATCARD, AND CHECK ACCEPTED

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY 11-2:30
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 10-2:30

EXT. 2490

Drivers — Delivery Persons Needed — Call Dennis Ext. 6404

INFOnxx

INFOnxx is recruiting a few top college graduates to build a team of project managers who will learn how to
manage, operate, and direct a dynamic, fast-growing company. Founded by two Ivy MBAs five years ago, INFOnxx provides opportunities unmatched
by the investment banks and consulting firms, at a competitive salary. You will have an immediate and direct impact on
our business. Please visit the Davidson Careers Office for details on the position, our company, and our upcoming campus visit.

INFOnxx Informational Services
October 28, 7:00 pm

Career Services
