ads | ° an interview with Chris Randall of Sister Machine Gun

Since then, the band has produced four albums, each one a step in a progression that illustrates the American “Industrial”
genre that they helped to create. Their first record, *Sins of the Flesh*, was a solid, angry synth-pop record which
began SMG’s association with the WaxTrax label, which in the early nineties was the premier American industrial label. Unfortunately, in
1994 WaxTrax went bankrupt and was bought out by TVT Records, who continued distribution of all the WaxTrax bands. Shortly
thereafter, SMG released their second album, *The Torture Technique*, which abandoned the synthy sound of the previous album for a
very, very noisy, harder sound. This time was also quite difficult for Chris himself, as he was battling not only
problems with his new label but also heroin addiction. While continuing SMG’s tradition of nonstop touring, Chris still managed to
release the band’s next album, *Burn*, a year later. The road to this record's release included a stop to address
his substance abuse problem and a marriage to his current wife Lisa. *Burn* was again a departure from previous work,
featuring more slower and groovy tracks while maintaining the signature SMG intensity. Another marathon tour ensued, and by late 1996
Chris began working on the latest SMG album, *Metropolis*, which was finally released this summer. The delay was caused by
the growing rift between TVT’s expectations and Chris’ artistic integrity. When he submitted the finished album to TVT in November
last year, they considered it commercially non-viable and pointed to the clause in his contract that said they had to
have something to sell. This led to Chris going back into the studio to record a single to be added
to the album, a compromise which he regrets. After more debate and bureaucracy, TVT finally agreed to release the album
with the new track, and SMG went out on tour in support of the new album.

I was lucky enough to see the band at Ziggy’s in Winston-Salem recently and had an opportunity to speak to
Chris about the new record, his problems with the label, and the state of the world.

So, great to have you here in lovely Winston-Salem on your current “Cold Fusion” tour.
Yeah, this is one of the 440 dates we've played in the past two years.

Wow. Looking at your tour schedule, you seem to focus more on the northern and midwestern cities...
We do the South at least once a year, but we don’t do real well down here... south of the
Mason-Dixon line, Atlanta being the one exception to that rule.

The, umm, is this for radio or print?
It’s for print.

So I can swear?
Oh yeah.

F---ing Florida, man...
Really? What about it in particular?
Well, we, I don’t know, it’s a strange state. They're very faddish there. There are three parts of the country
where fads are heavy duty: that’s LA, Washington DC, and the whole state of Florida. So, with the rave culture
taking off as it has, electronica, whatever you want to call it, industrial has taken a nosedive. I see it
in the whole country, but some cities are way worse than others. For instance, last time we were in DC
we had 810 people at the Capitol Ballroom, and last night we had 147. Raves, however, there have become hugely
popular. And the music isn’t that different, like Crystal Method versus your average, non-guitar-having industrial band, it’s just that Crystal
Method is a little funkier. But if you go to a rave, you're going to spend forty or fifty dollars,
whereas coming to one of our shows, for the same amount of money (actually quite a bit less) you sit
in a nightclub for most of the night, see five bands, and walk out with a t-shirt. With a rave,
you go there all night, see fifteen bands, and do a lot of drugs. That scene has definitely taken a
lot out of the industrial scene. I would go so far as to say that industrial music, if it isn’t
dead now, which I consider it is, it will be shortly. Another part of the reason for that I think
is that there aren’t a lot of new bands coming out that are noteworthy. At the end of the last
decade, in 1989 and 1990, we had Front 242, Meat Beat Manifesto, Ministry, KMFDM, SMG, Nine Inch Nails, Die Warzau,
all great, big bands. And those bands are still the bands. There aren’t any new ones. Stabbing Westward and Gravity
Kills, if you want to call them industrial, which they really aren’t... but then again by that same token, neither
are we or Nine Inch Nails. Whatever you want to call it, aggro-pop or whatever, which I think is the
best term to describe it—what we do, what they [SW and GK] do, what Nine Inch Nails does. But there
aren’t any new bands that are big. The new bands that come out, like Mentallo and the Fixer, they're crap,
I mean, call a spade a spade, they’re just not very good. As a result, the people who liked this
kind of music in 1989 are all older now. Like myself, in 1989 I was 21, and now I’m four
months shy of being 30, and I don’t like industrial music anymore. I still listen to Meat Beat and Front
242, but they aren’t putting many new records out. So, you have the whole genre just choking itself. And that’s
cool, whatever, I don’t mind, I can do plenty of things. Sister Machine Gun will hang around, but we’re definitely
going to change our music quite a bit. We're not going to be an electronica band, that’s not what we
are, we're a four-piece rock combo. But we’re going to move more towards a songwriting thing, and change the name
to SMG Ltd., and see if we can’t get a little notoriety. I mean, we're all close to 30, and
have families to support, and I'd LIKE to sell out. I'd like to have the opportunity to sell out and
get a house and a car, y'know, because I don’t have either—and you heard that here first. I’ve actually been
thinking about it long and hard on this tour, because every show is just—. Even in Chicago, where we are
hugely popular, where we sell as many records as the rest of the country combined, and we play this one
theater that is about 1800 capacity, and we've sold it out seven times. This time, we only did 900 people,
on Halloween, and that was supposed to be the best show of the tour. It was kind of disappointing, but
it was no big deal. The only way I'd know all these things, and be able to adjust myself accordingly
is if I was out on tour. And it’s still fun, I still love my job, I still love playing
music, whether there’s 10 people or 10,000, I don’t mind.

The new album, *Metropolis*, is definitely an SMG record, but it also has quite a few things in it that
are certainly firsts...
Sure, for this genre, and certainly for us, the string section, electric slide guitar and whatnot. It was the same
thing with *Burn*, where I decided I was going to make the kind of music that I really like to
make instead of what I felt I should make. On both *Burn* and *Metropolis* I ended up making a record
that was half what I wanted to do, and half what I felt like I'm supposed to do, being a
WaxTrax recording artist. It’s pretty obvious the delineation, on *Burn* you have the slower songs, and on *Metropolis* you have
the entire last half of the album. That’s what I like to do, the slower funkier soul. The next Sister
Machine Gun record will be all what I like. The next record will be all that, because the other songs
just don’t get me there anymore, they just aren’t fulfilling for me, and we don’t even play them live. I
don’t enjoy them, I do them so that TVT can say “here’s the new SMG record.” “Think” is the best
example of that. I was sent back into the studio to do that, and I wrote it so that...

---

Coffeehouse. Coffee. Donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:30 p.m. 900 Room.
Austin Lowrey Exhibition. It’s art. 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m., daily, at the Edward M. Smith Gallery.
Jumpin’ Java. Be there or be square. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m, at the lovely Outpost.
Christmas toons. Charlie Brown and the evil, evil Grinch. 8:00 p.m.-9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Campus Christmas Party. For the second straight year, catch your contraceptive. 9:15 p.m.-10:30 p.m. on Chambers Lawn.
21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Silver Lake Life. It’s in the 900 Room from 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. For more information, contact Student Health Advisor Lindsay
Meyers.
Cold Comfort Farm: It’s a movie. See it. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Campus Christmas rain date. If it...the TVT radio department can have something to put on the radio. That’s not what
I’m about, and I’m unhappy that I did that, and I refuse to do it again. I went and listened
to the radio and decided what a pop song that I would write should sound like, and that’s what I
did. Which is wrong because that’s not me, that’s not this band. It’s a cool song, whatever, and it’s fun
to do live, but I don’t like listening to the record of it.

Was the Metropolis idea with you from the beginning, or was that just a name that seemed to fit once
you were done?

Crop Lunch. Eat beans, rice, and cornbread — yummy! 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Kayak rolling. Roll some
more kayaks. Again. And again — 7:30 p.m. in Cannon Pool.

I had the title and the concept for the album long before I started writing any songs for it. I
spent the entire tour with Drill and Chemlab knowing that I was going into the studio at the end of
it and thinking about how I wanted everything to be. One of the scenes from the film Metropolis (a classic
black and white film made by German director Fritz Lang, which deals with class struggles and individuality) that came back
to me when I was listening to the album was the one where the worker has to point the arms
of a clock to different lights to keep the machine (which serves the upper class) from exploding. Do you ever
feel like that guy?

Oh, that’s the whole point of the album. I’m not the guy who says, “Oh this is bad, I'd gotta
go tell dad,” I’m the guy f---ing working the clock. I’ve said this many times, that I keep the lyrical
content vague on purpose because it would sound stupid to have a whole album of songs that say “The music
industry sucks, I f---ing hate myself.” But every lyric I wrote for this album, I had that in mind. We
had a monitor in the studio with that movie running for three months, and every time I would look up,
it was there. While the album doesn’t run with the movie and it isn’t a campy take on it, that
was definitely the vibe I was shooting for.

When I last saw SMG (in 1996), you used a sample from the song “James Brown Is Dead” by LA
Style; what was up with that?

Well, I wrote “James Brown Is Dead.” That’s me, from way back in the day, pre-Sister Machine Gun. So, you
can blame me for the whole techno explosion in this country, it’s all my fault. That was the first big
techno song. I've got a gold record on my wall for that, whatever. People who know about that sometimes shout
it out at shows, and so we’ll bust out into a metal version of it or something like that. There
are no lyrics to it, but there is a version on the American release of the single, where I sing
and play guitar. It’s quite amusing, actually, me singing in my 20-year-old voice. It’s pretty funny so I listen to
it now and again just to laugh.

What kind of music do you listen to these days?

I listen to a lot of pop music. The new David Bowie album, Garbage, U2, Chris Isaak, Squeeze, Jamiroquai, and
a lot of Beatles. The CDs that come on every tour are Tom Waits, Pink Floyd, Beatles, Beatles, more Beatles,
Underworld, Firewater, which is a badass album by the guys from Cop Shoot Cop, but it’s all sea shanties, Cop
Shoot Cop, can’t not have that, Peter Gabriel's greatest hits, John Lee Hooker for the blues when I need that,
Otis Redding, who I’m really getting into lately, Emerson Lake and Palmer for my keyboard fix, and Herbie Hancock, who
I love. No industrial at all, because I’m really just sick of it. The WaxTrax records that I like, I've
just heard so many times, so I’ve stopped listening to them. We use a MiniDisc player, so I have a
couple of discs I’ve made that are all industrial classics, and we’ll put those on before a show sometime. The
new Bowie album has been my favorite for about six months now.

By Eric Borcstrom
Student Health Advisor

Although Davidson College has an extremely safe campus, occasionally, bad influences penetrate our haven. Among the potential evils include date
rape drugs, such as Rohypnol and GHB. Rohypnol, the most common date rape drug, is composed of fairly common ingredients
and can cause blackouts and memory loss in its victims. Mixed with alcohol, its effects are intensified and can even
cause death. The use of Rohypnol makes one susceptible to harsh state and federal penalties. GHB, however, is only recently
being considered in legislation. As of December 1, the possession of GHB will become illegal in North Carolina. GHB, or
Gamma-hydroxybutyrate, is fairly easy to manufacture, for two of its main ingredients are vinegar and salt. GHB is a chemical
found in the human brain. Users claim it offers a mild euphoria and sometimes heightens sexual interest. GHB abuse is
on the rise, particularly among teenagers and college students because of its substantial availability and cheap price. Nicknames for GHB
include Liquid Ecstasy, Liquid X, Georgia Home Boy, Scoop, and Goop. GHB is considered by some to be a date
rape drug. Serious side effects when GHB interacts with alcohol can include cramps, kidney failure, seizure, unconsciousness, and death. Additional
side effects may include coronary artery disease, bone pains, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, depression, and high blood pressure.

Beyond the obvious dissuasion against the use of these two drugs, we health advisors hope to warn unsuspecting victims. We
fear that GHB or other date rape drugs may already be on campus. We advise students to notice who is
pouring your drink—check to make sure it’s a friend. Particularly when combined with alcohol, these substances can cause severe harm.
As always, we welcome the feedback of students and faculty. With this article specifically, we the health advisors are curious
as to whether students have seen or heard of date rape drugs or GHB on our campus. Please send any
comments to The Student Body c/o Mitch Shores, P.O. Box 4180.

Bradshaw to give public reading
By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts & Living Editor

On Tuesday, Dec. 9, junior Will Bradshaw will give a public reading of several of his stories and poems in
the Outpost at 8:00 p.m. The event will include a viewing of photographs taken by Bradshaw during a six-week tour
of Hungary, France, Britain, and Spain made this past summer. Most of the featured literary works will be related to
this same European excursion. Bradshaw looks forward to this unique opportunity to share his work with others. “I’ve never done
anything like this before,” he said. “It’s really frightening, but it’s really cool at the same time.” Bradshaw aspires to
compile these seven works together with his photos in the compilation of a 25-30 page portfolio, which he plans to
complete later this summer.

Celtic music legends bring flair to Series
Celtic from page 7

Their performance was highlighted by an arrangement of Van Morrison’s “Moondance,” which was thankfully much less obnoxious than the original
version. The group played it by request, something that Nightnoise rarely does, according to Dunning. Less enthused with Nightnoise’s performance
than with Stewart and O’Beirne’s, the crowd began to disperse shortly following the penultimate song. Although moderately well-received, Nightnoise was
not begged for an encore in the way that their opening act was. This Artists Series concert was the best
one in recent memory, helping bring attention to the exquisite yet oft-overlooked genre of Celtic music.

Coffeehouse. Sugar. Fat. Bring it on. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Friday Afternoon Club. Again, drink because you can. 4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Steele Creek Ramblers. Straight out of Steele Creek, they’ll ramble. 9:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Community Christmas Party. Tasty treats in the spirit of the season. 2:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. in the Union.
Jumpin’ Java. It’s fun. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the Outpost.
Jewish worship service. 7:00 p.m. upstairs in Eumenean Hall.
Cold Comfort Farm. It’s an amazing movie. Watch it, for the love of God! 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
A medley of various athletic exhibitions. Nothing is going on except sports. You have no excuse not to go.
Christmas Everglades Trip. Sign up for only $175. Stop by Davidson Outdoors or call x2623. January 2nd-8th, 1998. Avoid the
snow and start the new year in Florida.
Optional classes. Not your option. The professor’s option! Silly freshmen.
Jumpin’ Java. Again. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the Outpost.
Massage study break. A sure-fire ticket to an A. 9:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. in the Home Room.
