THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

It was a tale of two completely different halves. And it did not have a happy ending. The women’s soccer team lost 2-1 to East Carolina Wednesday. After dominating the first half, the Wildcats faltered in the second, as the Pirates scored two goals in the final 13:07.

“We were more aggressive and won the first and second balls,” coach Kevin Hundley said of Davidson's performance in the first 45 minutes. “None of that existed in the second half.” If it had, the Wildcats might have picked up their first win of the season. Instead, it was the Pirates who looked more aggressive coming out of the break, outshooting Davidson 17-3 in the second stanza.

In the first half, the Pirates looked like they were still weary from the long bus ride from Greenville. The Wildcats dominated every aspect of the opening minutes, taking a 1-0 lead when Ginny Dye maneuvered around the keeper and put the ball in the net. It looked like goalkeeper Chesley Garrett — usually the back-up to defending conference player of the year Allie Noznesky, making her first start of the season — wouldn’t get much of a test as ECU didn’t take its first shot until the 41st minute.

“We had decided that last week,” Hundley said. “We want to get Chesley in more games. I don’t know that (not playing Allie) was the difference.” Garrett was immediately assaulted with shots to start the second half. Twice the Pirates could have tied it, but their shots were rejected by the crossbar. Then with just over 13 minutes left, they executed a perfect corner kick that was redirected into the goal. The score visibly energized the Pirates, and they continued to dominate. With 4:30 to go, they missed a header wide by only a foot. After a yellow card to Kelly Rennick with 3:30 left, another shot hit the crossbar after Garrett tried to tip the ball over the goal. And seconds later, Pirate Jennifer Bush found the net, sealing the ECU victory and keeping the Wildcats winless.

Rhina Roberts shows fancy footwork Wednesday.

Wildcats 3 SPORTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1997

Surprising Holbrook an inspiration

By Daniel Motz
Senior Staff Writer

It is not often that a team finds its inspiration from one of its own players. Then again, most teams don’t have an Andrew Holbrook.

“Every time he is on the field, whether it’s a game or practice, Andrew is a spark,” goalkeeper and captain Brad Stroble said. “He is an inspiration to me, he is an inspiration to everyone.”

This season, Holbrook has come out of nowhere to lead the men’s soccer team in scoring with nine points, tallying four goals and one assist through Sunday’s game. Holbrook, a native of Bethel, Conn., and graduate of the elite Taft school, is as alarmed as anyone at his offensive surge.

“I have never been a goal scorer,” the 5-foot-10 sophomore said in an interview last week. “This season has been a complete surprise.” A surprise, perhaps. Random luck, impossible.

“There is no secret,” Holbrook explained. “I work hard, I know I am not one of the most talented guys out there, but I try to make up for that with my work ethic.” And his work ethic more than compensates. Although his numbers thus far are eye-opening, amazingly Holbrook does several more things on the field that go unnoticed. In Sunday’s game against Furman, Holbrook ran down a Stroble punt to earn the Wildcats a free-kick.

Sophomore Andrew Holbrook has scored four goals as the surprising leader of the men’s soccer team.

“He’s not one of the most skilled guys out there, but it would be tough to find anyone that works harder,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “He absolutely works his tail off.”

Starting the season as a reserve midfielder, Holbrook has temporarily shifted to the point man in Slagle’s 4-5-1 alignment due to the injury of Phil Julien.

“We don’t have a lot of guys on this team that can score goals,” said Slagle. “Andrew has been scoring goals and although he may be playing out of position, he is doing well.”

While several people are shocked at Holbrook’s offensive numbers, some are surprised that he is even playing at this level. After graduating from Taft, Holbrook took a year abroad in England, and coaches expected him to compete on the junior varsity level at Davidson.

“But last year he had a lot of seasoning and he got the opportunity to play,” Slagle said. “By the time the spring season arrived, he had earned a spot on the varsity roster.”

His coach at Taft told him he should try to play Division II because he was “involved in too many things” to make the commitment to play Division I athletics. And this double major — English and History — is still involved on several different levels at Davidson. Planning on going abroad next semester, Holbrook is...a Bonner Scholar, active with his fraternity, as well as several other campus groups. It is clear, though, that Holbrook’s No. 1 commitment is God. He is a member of InterVarsity and eyes ministry as a possible career. He is able to take his relationship with God to the soccer field. “Ever since I started playing soccer, it has been my goal to play at the Division I level,” he explained. “Every time I step out on the field, it is a blessing. Coming into this season, I told Him, ‘I know you have a purpose for me.’ To carry out that purpose truly is a blessing.” And for the men’s soccer team so far this season, Holbrook has been nothing short of a blessing.

Men’s soccer knocks off defending champ
By Daniel Motz
Senior Staff Writer

All season, the men’s soccer team has been saying it can play with any team in the country. And after beginning the season with a record of 1-6, their worst start since 1977, the Wildcats finally proved themselves Sunday, taking advantage of three unanswered goals to defeat regional power Furman 3-1 at the lower soccer field.

“Today we saw a great maturation process from our young guys,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “We’ve been in every game this season and we’ve suffered some tough losses, but one thing that is a constant is that these guys won't give up.”

Dane Erickson sent a rocket past Furman goalkeeper Ronnie Pascale off a free kick with just over 15 minutes remaining in the game that provided the Wildcats (2-6, 1-1) with a 2-1 cushion, a lead they would never relinquish.

“Dane saw that a wall was open,” Slagle explained. “He ripped the shot low and hard to the inside. Pascale may have been cheating a bit because we had been trying to go to the outside all game. Dane saw the crack and went with it. He is a smart player and he has

See Upset on page 18

Field hockey wins two
By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

The field hockey team posted two victories this week, including a sudden death overtime win Sunday. The Wildcats knocked off Longwood 3-2 Wednesday, dropped a 3-0 contest to Ohio University Saturday, and then pulled out the exciting 3-2 decision over Ursinus.

The Wildcats were impressive in their win over Longwood. Midfielder Chase Keith netted Davidson’s first goal by taking a Laura Rosenbach pass and chipping the ball into the right-hand corner of the cage. The Wildcats’ second goal came right before the end of the first half on a penalty corner, as defender Lindsey Parker put a hard shot from the top of the circle past Longwood’s keeper. With the score knotted at 2-2 in the second half, attacker Erin Smith scored her second goal of the season to put Davidson ahead for good.

“This was a well-played game by the entire team,” coach Jennifer Blizzard Halliday said. “Two of our three goals were executed perfectly, especially the goal off the penalty corner.”

Davidson faced a tougher opponent in Ohio. Most of the action took place in the Wildcats’ end of the field, and it showed in the stats column. Despite the 3-0 loss, goalkeeper Sara Gebhardt set a school record for saves in a single game, blocking 29 shots.

Davidson got on the board first versus Ursinus, as defender Kim Ceci took a shot that deflected off the keeper’s pads, and Erin Smith picked up the deflection and put it in the cage. Then, less than 30 seconds later, attacker Jennie Gold put another shot into the goal. Davidson went into halftime with a two-goal lead, but Ursinus came back, scoring two to tie the game — the last tally with only one second left.

Five minutes into overtime, during which only seven players for each team take the field as opposed to 11 in regulation time, Erin Smith scored her second goal of the day. Midfielder Kate Schoening made the initial shot, and there was a crowd in front of the goal scrapping for the rebound. In heavy traffic, Smith managed to get her stick on the ball and force it past the keeper.

“I just seemed to be in the right place at the right time today,” Smith said. “Kim and Kate made great shots, and I picked up the garbage. That goal in OT was a lot of fun.”

With her two goals on Sunday, Smith moved into a tie for fifth place on Davidson’s career points list.

“We really stepped up today,” Halliday said.

“Come Work at the Lake!”

Now OPENING A NEW LOCATION
Exit 25 on I-77 at Lake Norman!

Join the excitement of opening a new restaurant!
• 5 minute drive from Davidson
• Full-Time & Part-Time
• Dinner Shift Only

Apply Mon. - Fri. 10 a.m.-6:00 p.m
Sat. 1:00-4:00 p.m.
16400 Northcross Drive • Huntersville
I-77 • Exit 25
895-1888
• Great Money
• Great Benefits
• All Positions Available