THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & Living MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

Exhibit traces artist’s decade-long development

Take a walk this month through the Smith Gallery of the Visual Arts Center and you will see a sampling of New York sculptor Linda Matalon’s work. Unavoidable and lending its name to the show’s title is What Remains, a hanging piece that dominates the gallery space with its congregation of paired oblong hanging objects. Common to much of Matalon’s work is such use of suspended pieces hung by wax-coated wire. Her gauzed and waxed forms often hang from or cling to borrowed gallery walls. Matalon combines themes and stories that have haunted her life. 

Last Thursday, Matalon spoke to a packed lecture hall in the VAC preceding a reception celebrating the opening of her show as well as the Davidson faculty show. Students, faculty, and Davidson community members enjoyed the artist’s informal nature and preference for dialogue during a discussion and slide show of her works. Refreshingly relaxed and accessible, Matalon entertained questions and comments about her life and work during and after her presentation, when students had the opportunity to cluster around the artist to hear her comments.

For interested Davidson students who might shy away from the lectures of visiting artists for reasons of inaccessibility and esotericism, Matalon’s presentation was not one to have missed. The pieces now showing in the VAC, though few, attempt to trace Matalon’s development as an artist through this decade. Matalon testified that she began her sculptures as a way of dealing with the deaths of friends, a number of whom have been victims of AIDS. Matalon’s earliest piece here, Breast Plate, deals with the loss of a lover to breast cancer. After dealing with the pain of others, Matalon’s work then focused on personal issues, specifically a tumultuous family life. Most recently she has moved from narrative work towards sculpture that deals with wider-reaching themes. One worthy of mention is the examination of physical or emotional protection and the futility of such efforts.

The film begins rather slowly, tracking a cabbie named Jerry Fletcher (Mel Gibson). Jerry likes to share paranoid ramblings with his passengers about government plots, assassination schemes, UFOs, and so on. Jerry is a geyser of paranoid political fantasies, and no passenger is safe from his ruminations about what “they” are doing to “us.” Jerry sees plots and conspiracies of evil in everything from the death of Jerry Garcia to the success of Oliver Stone. He’s also obsessed with a Justice Department attorney named Alice Sutton (Julia Roberts). Jerry is clearly just not quite right in the head. Alice becomes entangled in his warped world, trying to determine whether he’s a basically benign nut, a seriously deranged killer, or the victim of a pernicious experiment. Fortunately, Alice is played by Julia Roberts, so you know she will decide, and does, and the two proceed to outwit the evil masterminds bent on world domination. It turns out that some of what Gibson rambles on about is actually true, and a certain highly placed government psychiatrist (Patrick Stewart) is out to kidnap and torture Gibson to find out exactly what he knows.

Gibson gives a remarkable performance as Jerry. Patrick Stewart does powerful supporting work as a mysterious “psychiatrist” working for the CIA who may be very, very evil, or sort of good—or somewhere in between. After we are introduced to Jerry throughout his ramblings and the scene is set, the movie picks up the pace to a comfortable level. However, the last third of the movie drags. I found myself checking my watch wondering when it would end. This is definitely a long one, but it’s good. Richard Donner, the director, said in an interview that the movie was intended to be confusing because that’s how Jerry sees the world. The confusion we are presented with comes in the form of flashbacks to previous testing of Jerry. Thankfully this is not the brain candy that so many other “blockbusters” this summer have been. Conspiracy Theory is a good, intelligent movie where you need to pay attention. Grade: B+of faith in its existence. Cage-like wire structures demonstrate their inability to keep the viewer away from that which is held inside. This simple metaphor is but one portrayed in Matalon’s work that applies to the world of human interactions. Matalon’s works are gritty and real in their portrayal of vulnerability and complexity of human relationships. Take a break from your doubtlessly already busy schedule to experience them. The limited number of works that this gallery can hold is the exhibit’s only downfall.

(above) Cort Savage's Shiver
(left) Herb Jackson's Zephyr
Debra Fisher's Travel Log

This exhibit runs Sept. 4-Oct. 19 at the Visual Arts Center. It also includes pieces by Davidson professors, such as those featured above.

G.I. Jane makes audience cry, ‘I am woman, hear me roar!”

Wow. After seeing G.I. Jane last Friday, that was all I could say. Filled with violence, intensity, and profanity, (the three basics for a riveting action flick), “G.I. Jane” captivates its audience. I was ready to sign up to be a Navy S.E.A.L. myself. Okay, maybe I wouldn’t go that far, but I did feel motivated to do a few pushups after the movie.

“G.I. Jane” is not your basic woman kicks ass movie, although that, of course, is part of it. Also included in the plot is the political scheming and back-stabbing that would inevitably occur before a woman would be allowed in combat. Lillian Dehaven, a high-powered, female politician, bargains with the Navy to allow one woman to try for the prestigious Navy S.E.A.L. Program, a program which 60% of men who enter fail. Played by Anne Bancroft, this dirty politician’s motives to gain popularity will infuriate you. The pawn of her game is Jordan O’Neil (Demi Moore), a young, female intelligence officer desperate for a combat-related position. The majority of the movie shows the hellish S.E.A.L. training, complete with physical brutality, emotional rape, and naturally O’Neil’s struggle to survive through it along with the severe gender bias she faces. The main contributor to this sexual discrimination is the mean and nasty Master Chief, played by Viggo Mortensen. Master Chief displays his sexual prejudice throughout the movie, but the climax of it occurs when the S.E.A.L. trainees are put through conditions similar to that of a third world P.O.W. camp. At one point he beats O’Neil mercilessly until she is left unconscious and severely wounded, horrifying the audience both because of the graphic nature of the scene and the tremendous discrimination she faces.

Don’t get me wrong, though; “G.I. Jane” does not throw the political incorrectness of women’s restricted role in the military down your throat. Instead, it objectively portrays a woman who outdoes the vast majority of her male counterparts in completing the nation’s toughest physical and emotional training. At the end of the movie, even those who were mocking the concept of “G.I. Jane” are cheering her on to finish the eight weeks of miserable S.E.A.L. training.

Now, what about the new haircut Demi Moore donned for this part? Despite the critics who longed for the lustrous dark hair that she chopped, shaving her head was a vital part of the movie. The scene in which she makes this controversial move is the turning point of the movie, because it is when O’Neil shows the audience and the rest of her trainee comrades that she is serious about completing the S.E.A.L. Program. From that point on, she just plain kicks all ass, doing even more pushups and situps than what is expected of her, assembling an M-16 faster than you can say, “enemy,” and all in all becoming a lean, mean fighting machine. It is at this point in the movie that you find yourself praying that she makes it to the end.

“G.I. Jane” confronts an issue that is prominent in the military today: Can a woman physically complete the intense training required for combat? If we were living in “movie world,” then women would be a vital part of the infantry after “G.I. Jane.” They would have no limitations, according to the precedent set by the tough but pretty Jordan O’Neil. As for reality, we can only wait and see what women will do next.