THE DAVIDSONIAN

WELCOME FRESHMEN

MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1997

Take advantage of what Davidson has to offer — but not just in the classroom

By MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Editor in Chief

Welcome, members of the Class of 2001, to the next four years of your life — four years that will
(hopefully) consummate the often rough-and-tumble, trial-and-error transition from adolescence to adulthood.

A mere two years back, I was, like you are right now, a wide-eyed frosh lost in the bureaucratic roller
coaster known as Orientation. During my first few weeks at the Big D, I kept on having to remind myself
that this was not simply Camp NoAdultSupervision.

This was the real deal. Here I was, a collegiate, really and truly on my own.

And here you are.

Everything’s new and unexpected. And, if your current state of mind is anything like mine was that frantic first weekend,
you’re living day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute.

Anything beyond the now is really irrelevant at this point. You’re just struggling to determine major campus landmarks, attend the
plethora of required informational sessions, stay afloat in a mass swim test at Cannon Pool, and keep your dignity while
diabolical upperclassmen lead you through their amusing (for them, not you) Union obstacle course.

And in the middle of this zoo, you are trying to make friends, some of whom - many of whom,
really - may become life-long comrades. Think about it: you could meet your future spouse today. Or tomorrow at a
seemingly ridiculous, pointless hall mixer. Or maybe you already have. As incomprehensible as such a thought seems right now, it’s
the truth.

I know, it’s all very intimidating.

So I understand full well that it’s tough for you to step back, take everything in, and seriously assess your
new surroundings and consider what’s to come in both the near and distant future.

Right now, I’m sure, advice, instructions, and suggestions are being thrown at you from every which way. So I will
spare you another such rambling discourse. But I will offer these few pithy words of wisdom:

You’re here to learn, but not only — and maybe not even primarily — in the classroom. In fact, as
much as I’ve learned from the professors here over the past two years, the bulk of my learning has happened
outside the walls of any academic building. As a student at Davidson, you’re now surrounded by gobs of smart and
interesting people. Get to know them. Listen to them. They’re sometimes the best teachers of all.

Commit yourself to an extracurricular. Notice I said commit, and not just join. Instead of becoming a blithering resume-stuffer, doing
a little of every godforsaken activity known to man, pick one or two and do them with pride and energy.

Always make sure your dorm room has more decorations than your study carrel. And check yourself periodically on this one.
Because when your room’s walls are virtually bare and the pictures of your loved ones are plastered all over your
personal study hovel in Little Library, a red warning light should pop into your head.

For that’s when you know Davidson is using you, and you are not using Davidson.

Say What?:

By JESSICA GOODSON
News Editor

*brairen. short for library, social hinge of Davidson College
*chez commons. our exquisite dining facility (sample from the freshest greens, choicest cuts of student steak, and finest generic pastas
with your choice of meat or marinara sauce)
*D.T.R. n. Define The Relationship; vocalizing with your partner whether you are friends, lovers, or engaged.
*daving v. derived from “davidsoning,” competitive one-upping: well, you’ve got quite a load there, but I’ve got five papers, two
lab reports, a review, three meetings simultaneously scheduled, and walking pneumonia
*edillas. famous quesadillas from the Union Outpost
*finger me v. computer jargon for “check and see if I am currently logged on”
*flickerball n. akin to rugby, a hall-bonding activity which satisfies your team credit
*hook up v. a spectrum of sexual acts between two people, ranging from kissing to unbridled animal intercourse
*mixer n. the somewhat strained mingling of freshman halls during which time one is crammed full of “What’s your name?,”
“Where are you from,” and “Do you know___?”
*P.O. n. post office, site of all transactions with J. Crew
*Phi Gamm Tramm n. convenient transportation serviced by Phi Gamma Delta, alias Fiji, from Richardson to the house in four
minutes flat, an assuredly cozy ride
*review n. or v. misleading Davidson speak for test; what you'd better do for the two days before a test
*satellite n. b.f.e. parking alternative, and a bad one at that
*tom clark. local superstar and carver of gnomes
*tool n. arrogant s.o.b.
*Vamonos Van n. SGA shuttle to various venues in surrounding towns
*walk of shame n. exposure to the Davidson gossip engine as one walks home the morning after, wearing the same
clothes as the night before

NOBPO TO2KAJIOBATb!

Kakoe Bbl npeqnousTaete - BaHR.IbROe 41H WIOKO.IaqHOe?

Becn.1aTHeit KyNOH Ha ”” Ben # Jixkeppu” nepabim apaquaTH,

KTO 9TO pa3zra,aer.

Dawe,

‘Dogm u

Sou

Town of Davidson Quick Facts.

Keep on dancin’

Davidson College Student Counseling Center

Call X-2461
Monday - Friday
8:30 - 5:00

For your personal concerns
From homesickness to serious depression,
Time management to eating disorders.
Study skills to relationships.
CONFIDENTIAL (totally)

Up to 10 FREE sessions per year. Professional staff

Write for The Davidsonian
Call us at x2148.
