DAVIDSON COLLEGE
“The South's College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

Dean Williams looks back on his tenure.
NEWS 5

Smallwood chastises world’s skewed values.
OPINIONS 8

B.B. be great at UNCC.
A&L 13

Football opens with win; preparing for centennial game this weekend.
SPORTS 16

Lee Burnett @ Boo!
The ghost of Old Chambers was particularly noticeable this week, as the outline of the old building could be seen clearly. Old Chambers burned down in 1922. The area of ground currently known as Chambers lawn, on which the old building was located, shows the remnants of its old tenant during dry spells.

By JESSICA GOODSON
News Editor

Katie Koestner will deliver a presentation on date rape in Love Auditorium Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. The victim of a sexual assault at William and Mary College, Koestner went public with her story and is now nationally renowned for speaking out against sexual assault. By lending a name and face to date rape, Koestner has brought discussion of the issue into the national spotlight.

Koestner has appeared on the Oprah Winfrey Show, Geraldo, NBC Nightly News, CNBC Talk Live, the Jane Whitney Show, Morton Downey, Jr., Larry King Live, Entertainment Tonight, Italian TV, and dozens of local news programs. In addition, Koestner was featured on the cover of Time Magazine’s June 3, 1991 issue. Articles about her have been published in the New York Times, Los Angeles Tribune, Philadelphia Inquirer, Chicago Sun-Times, the Journal of Higher Education, and over 100 local newspapers. In 1993, she completed No Visible Bruises: The Katie Koestner Story, an HBO Lifestories Docudrama.

In addition to her media experience, Koestner brings her education to bear on the issue of date rape. Earning degrees in Public Policy and Women’s Studies from William and Mary, Koestner graduated Magna Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa in 1994. She postponed graduate studies to travel to high schools and colleges to present her highly-acclaimed address entitled “No/Yes.” Koestner is a Virginia State-trained and certified peer-educator and sexual assault counselor. She has formed organizations such as Students Helping Others to Understand Trauma (SHOUT) at Cornell and the Sexual Assault Companions Program at William and Mary. She also assists in the lobbying efforts of groups such as Security-on-Campus, Inc., in Washington, D.C. Her appearance on Capitol Hill with Congressman Jim Ramstad encouraged Congress to pass the Victim’s Bill of Rights into law in 1992.

The purpose of Koestner’s campus presentations is to help schools develop model response programs for dealing with sexual assault on campus. Training ranges from medical assistance to adjudicating at hearings, so that first responders can provide victims with the support they need and deal administratively with incidents of rape and harassment. Koestner will also lead “Someone was Raped” Wednesday at 5 p.m. in the 900 Room, a program for resident advisors on responding to a rape situation. Any student interested in becoming a first responder is welcome to attend. Koestner has co-written a guidebook for model campus sexual assault policies. Due to her experience developing the federal legislation that governs schools regarding sexual assault, she is in a unique position to give advice on compliance and...liability. Students and faculty interested in an invitation to a workshop on sexual assault called “Policy, protocol, and prevention,” should contact Georgia Ringle at extension 2902. The hour-long workshop will be held Wednesday at 3 p.m. Her presentation has been described as emotional, personable, and evenhanded. Koestner does not male-bash. In fact, she teaches both men and women how to communicate effectively, with more respect and responsibility so that both can work together to reduce the incidences of date rape. Koestner will be spending the night on second west Belk and will be available all night to speak with students about issues concerning sexual assault.

Coming soon: Sororities at Davidson
By SARAH OGDEN
Staff Writer

Word of sororities at Davidson began as rumors murmured over dinner at the Commons, fraternities, and eating houses. But now it appears that this is much more than just gossip. After evaluating levels of student interest last Spring, the Patterson Court Council approved a measure that will soon make sororities a viable option for the women of Davidson — hopefully by the end of the academic year, Patterson Court Advisor Jim Barber said in a recent interview.

Surveys were sent to 26 national sororities, and 19 are now vying for a place at Davidson. It has become the task of a committee comprised of a mix of students, faculty, and staff to choose the five organizations that will make the final cut and become part of Davidson’s Greek system. The committee expects to examine as many aspects of the sororities as possible to see which will best fit at Davidson. Criteria they plan to consider include: the opportunities each offers in the field of community service, the amount of alumni support and networking available, the degree of flexibility in membership selection, and how much time will be required to implement the group.

Most importantly, the committee hopes to find sororities that will mesh with Davidson’s existing self-selection system. The new organizations will not be in competition with the women’s eating houses, Barber assures, in part because the sororities will not have their own houses, and therefore will not infringe on the meal plans and social opportunities Rusk, Connor, and Warner Hall offer. Dual membership in both a sorority and an eating house will be possible and encouraged. To further avoid conflict, the sorority “rush” is expected to take place after self-selection, and the selection process will ideally be somewhat similar to the combination bid and self-selection system currently favored by Davidson fraternities.

According to Barber, the ultimate goal in bringing sororities to Davidson is to “make the system available for all women interested” in becoming involved with a Patterson Court organization.

SGA NOTES 8
ELSEWHERE 6
EDITORIALS 7
OPED 8
ARTS & LIVING 11
SPORTS 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

“Davidson is close to the limit of its resource base, so we are going to have to be able to do more with less.”
DEAN OF FACULTY ROBERT WILLIAMS ON WHAT HE THINKS HAS BECOME THE SCHOOL'S GREATEST ADMINISTRATIVE CHALLENGE