THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Jay Hinton
Guest Writer

Last Friday night, many members of the student body, faculty, and community met in the 900 Room to sample Davidson’s best and worst chilies. Everyone had a great time sampling more than 20 different chili recipes, making frequent trips to the open bar, and jiving to tunes from the fabulous bluegrass band. The band’s only fault was the constant complaining about their empty stomachs when the starving crowd tore through the lines to the food.

The chili judges presented awards to a few select entrants based upon several categories. John Cowan and Warren Buford won the Best Effort Award with their “Tropical Chili.” Most importantly, my personal favorite was the supercharged “Black Bean Bourbon Chili” submitted by old friend and fellow freshman hallmate Tony “Hugh” Wagner. It was good! Black beans in a bourbon and beer base with not one, but two doses of the hot stuff. Many couldn’t handle the seasoned aroma lingering above the pot. The judges, however, rated Jenny Evert’s “Sweet J” as worthy to receive the Best Overall Award. Her prize-winning recipe was delicious.

When the judges were asked about the qualities required to rate and compare chilies correctly, Britton Taylor responded, “Belly Brian Woodward eats, ‘2!’ is most important.” Indeed, he served as a fantastic judge. Jason Schmit added, “One has to know when to toss ‘em.” Right on.

the force from page 10

What other projects are you working on?
Currently, I’m preparing for my senior exhibit which is in April. Basically, it is a compilation of all the work I’ve been doing this year. I guess I’ve finally sort of reached a focus. It has a lot to do with dogs.

Why dogs?
Well, I have a dog, and I grew up with him. I guess I project a lot of personality on him. I wish I could catch a ball in my mouth or get real psyched about a biscuit or something. They have a lot of personality, and I think humans have the same kind of personality as dogs in some ways. I think there is a lot to learn from the way they interact and relate to their owners and stuff.

What would you tell readers who have an interest in art, but haven’t yet developed their skills?
Trotter: The best way to do it is just to get crazy and do stuff. It can be pretty fearful. As far as getting involved, I think everybody can do it. It just takes gathering maybe even a pencil and paper and just doodling or making a journal or getting some paint. There is a lot of stuff that I do that stinks, but the more I do, the more I move away from being bad. Maybe taking classes in the community or just set a banana on the table and play with the lighting and call it art.

Matt Pearson, one of Trotter’s roommates, remarked, “With Hayes you just sit back and watch the dream unfold.” We all have dreams, but the unfolding is almost always...rigorous. Brian Woodward, R.A. for apartment F and also Trotter’s roommate, remarked, “Generally, I would not advise transforming one’s wall into a canvas, but the overwhelming beauty of Hayes’s passion for expression captivated us all. Minor rules should not be allowed to strangle the creative spirit out of these wondrous yet painfully short lives we possess.”

FOR A LIMITED TIME TAKE AN EXTRA 30% OFF! From the markdown price of select Harold's men’s and ladies’ merchandise already reduced 25% to 50%! HAROLD'S Specialty Shops on The Park, Charlotte

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

Chili Cook-Off: Far from Mild

MONDAY
Eating Disorders Awareness Week begins. Look for displays around the Union throughout the week.
Real Love of Learning Informational Meeting informs those who might be interested in working with Charlotte teens this summer. Chambers Gallery 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java starts the week out right in the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Ghetto Blaster rocks in the Outpost 8:30 p.m.
Scenes from Skinny Girls is followed by shared experiences in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse serves good bagels and coffee in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Jumpin’ Java caffeinates your evening at the Outpost 7:30 p.m.
Armchair Adventure Series lets you explore without the sweat and mess. Home Room 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Twenty-One Year Old Night requires TWO forms of identification in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

WEDNESDAY
Eating Disorders Panel Discussion investigates the complexity of the problem in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Mighty Aphrodite teases its audience in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.
Crop Lunch serves up tasty beans and rice in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Dieting Facts and Fables teaches healthy weight management in the Harrison Room 12 noon - 1 p.m.
Open Forum with RLO airs your gripes and suggestions in the Morrison Room 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Open Libertas meeting welcomes participation in and response to the campus’ artsy ’zine with free pizza at the Outpost 8:30 p.m.

FRIDAY
Midwinters Weekend. Bundle up.
Coffeehouse has the best and cheapest coffee on campus in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
YEARBOOK PHOTOS record your existence in Morrison Room 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.
F.A.C. Pub lets the under-agers mix with the of-age crowd in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 6 p.m.
Jazz Mandolin Project, an up-and-coming jazz act, plays in the 900 Room 9 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Mighty Aphrodite plays again in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Taco Bar features Dr. Wertheimer. Enjoy both in the Outpost 9 p.m. - 11 p.m., beats Taco Bell in recent polls, and salsa band

SUNDAY
Film Festival begins. Tonight features Strawberry and Chocolate.
Jumpin’ Java even provides mugs in case you forget your own at the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Faculty Voice Recital sheds new light on your lecturer in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.