__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

"Hay Fever" a smashing success

By SARAH ZOGBY
Guest Writer

A play billed as a “zany comedy” often makes me nervous. A comedy simply needs to be funny. However, a “zany” comedy not only requires the correct comedic timing, it also relies heavily upon the right costumes, the right set, the right attitude, and, obviously, the right cast to push it over the top. Unlike a plain old comedy, a “zany” comedy needs to be larger than life in every respect.

Luckily, my fears of such a play were quickly dispelled as I sat in the audience of "Hay Fever," a play written by Noel Coward, performed for the Theater Department’s fall mainstage production. The cast and crew, who lit up the stage Wednesday through Sunday, created a comic book world set in 1930s England. It left the audiences, which were teeming with parents, in stitches from all the “zany” fun.

The Davidson production, directed by Ann Marie Costa with assistance from Chase Bringardner, remained extremely loyal to the period. (Someone was doing their research.) Most notable were the costumes, designed by Rebecca Cairns and Monica Cunningham. They were extravagant creations that changed repeatedly throughout the show, making each character larger than life—caricatures of themselves.

The accents also added authenticity to the production, thick but clear English brogues that remained consistent from beginning to end — something attempted in Davidson productions in the past but not nearly as successfully. The set, designed by Joe Gardner and constructed by Ronnie Higdon — who also designed the lights — created perfect spaces for the actors to strut their stuff. And strut they did.

Carrie Van Deest’s Sorel was a perfect mixture of sassy bitchiness and sweet girl-next-door. Jess Robblee’s portrayal of a fading stage star, Judith Bliss, was also a riot. As she and the rest of the members of her psychotic and self-absorbed clan — Victor Brand as reserved yet clueless David, Matthew Moretz as ever-nerdy Simon, and Van Deest — reenacted the overly dramatic scenes from their favorite plays, creating perfect parodies of their own production.

The supporting cast of house guests — Trey Davis as the naive Sandy Tyrell, Jennifer Spears as the acrid Myra Arundell, Ben Lukey as the distinguished Richard Greatham, and Andra Whitt as the Olive Oyle-esque Jackie Coryton — allowed the Bliss family to truly rule its domain, while lending its own spice to the show.

"Hay Fever" achieved its goal to be the “zany” production it claimed to be. The cast and crew put on an energetic and spirited show for parents and students alike. Play reviews here at Davidson often seem to be overly positive, but this particular production deserves all the praise it has received. It made me laugh out loud — a lot. And, as they say, we laugh to survive.

Bill Giduz

Matthew Moretz (left) supports Jess Robblee while reenacting a classic scene from Judith Bliss’s past with Carrie Van Deest. This trio, along with Victor Brand, Trey Davis, Ben Lukey, and Andra Whitt performed "Hay Fever" to sell-out crowds from Wednesday to Sunday of last week.

Joy Harjo to come to Davidson

By Carrie Morris
Arts & Living Editor

Joy Harjo, an award-winning poet, will read in the Union 900 Room tonight at 7:30. Harjo is one of the more prominent and accomplished Native American writers of our time, and it is quite an honor to have her visit Davidson.

Harjo was born in Tulsa, Okla., in 1951 and is a member of the Muscogee (Creek) Tribe. She graduated from high school from the Institute of American Indian Arts in 1968 and continued her education at the University of New Mexico. After receiving her M.F.A. in Creative Writing from the Iowa Writer’s Workshop at the University of Iowa,She went on to publish five books of poetry to date. Titles include *She Had Some Horses*, *In Mad Love and War*, and *The Woman Who Fell From the Sky*, among many more. She has won over 11 different awards for her work, including the William Carlos Williams Award from the Poetry Society of America, the Oklahoma Book Arts Award, and the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Native Writers’ Circle of the Americas. She is currently in the process of publishing a children’s book entitled *The Goodluck Cat*, a new book of poetry entitled *A Map to the Next World*, and a book of personal essays tentatively titled *A Love Supreme*.

Harjo is extremely multi-talented. She has narrated television programs about Native Americans and earned an Emmy for this work. She is a saxophone player who performs nationally and internationally — solo as well as with her band named Joy Harjo and Poetic Justice. They have a CD entitled *Letter From the End of the Twentieth Century*, and they also performed at the 1996 Cultural Olympiad in Atlanta. Harjo’s reading is not to be missed. You may think you have too much work and not enough time to attend the event. To that complaint, I will quote a very wise woman who taught me English in high school: “You'll never remember what it was that kept you away, but you’ll always remember what you got there.”

WRITE FOR ARTS & LIVING. Why? BECAUSE WE LIKE YOU. Call Wes (x6383) or Carrie (x6803).

---

Jackopierce Infuses Johnston Gym
Halloween night concert electrifies campus
By WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Halloween night was devoid of much campus activity, except for the persistent rainfall. The one exception would be the frighteningly loud noises that erupted from the cavern known as Johnston Gym. Jackopierce, a four-member band from Dallas, stopped by Davidson Friday night on its way across the nation, performing a farewell tour. The band’s final tour has included performances at prestigious venues all over the U.S. Several of their appearances will be accompanied by other artists, including the Smithereens, Edwin McCain, and the one-and-only Sister Hazel.

The concert, sponsored by Rusk House, was electric. There were about 600 people at the show. “The jam session was excellent, the rock-n-roll was perfect!” one unidentified man said. Indeed it was. Jackopierce’s sound, like so many other “college bands,” is difficult to describe, but was unique and professional. They were loud yet controlled, their songs slower than those of most rock groups, but entrancing. At times, comparisons could be made to groups such as Bush or Dishwalla, but Jackopierce was much less annoying and just as talented as either one. They clearly had a lot of performance experience; it was easy to tell that they had seen bigger stages before.

The audience seemed quite pleased with the group, with some of the spectators being familiar enough with the group’s songs to sing along. Otherwise, most found it difficult to tell what words the group was singing. Some audience members were confused by the group’s physical appearance. “The lead singer looks like a girl,” sophomore Anne Stancil said. The lead singer did look like a girl.

The concert began shortly after 9:00 p.m. and lasted nearly two and a half hours, with the group performing two well-received encores. The band paused briefly late in the gig to emcee its own Halloween costume contest, which featured about a dozen Davidson students. Friday’s Jackopierce concert was probably the biggest concert event to hit Davidson in recent memory. On a somewhat stormy night, the dark confines of hallowed Johnston Gym proved to be a phenomenal venue — certainly one that gives the 900 Room a run for its money.

Will Bradshaw
“I didn’t know that Michael Bolton could play guitar!” Jackopierce’s lead singer wails out late Friday night.