10 THE DAVIDSONIAN Op-Ed

Urban Plunge: A Suspect Humanitarian Endeavor

For anyone interested, we are planning a new alternative for those who have no home to go to this fall. It’s called the Prep Plunge. We're inviting the grungiest street kids to our own utopian Davidson Campus. They're responsible for finding their own way here. But once on campus, we'll hand them an American Express card and keys to a shiny new Honda Accord. They’ll be paired with one of many Davidson students who volunteer to act as their guide. This guide will promptly escort them to South Park and help them pick out the general attire of a Davidson College student, so they'll “blend.” No department stores for our homeless pals, only the best from Gap, Banana Republic, and J. Crew. Equipped with their new ensembles, they’ll be expected to participate in all the rigorous aspects of Davidson life, including classes, bar time, and even the Court. (Don’t fear for their safety — they'll be paired with people who will point them in the direction of a good hook-up.)

These transformed homeless teens are sure to assimilate perfectly in their new environment. Then we’ll send them back with a lot more compassion and empathy for the people in business suits shooting them dirty looks. If you think this is a pointless and perhaps degrading program, maybe you'll take a new look at the Urban Plunge.

Preparation for the Urban Plunge first involves pairing a female with a male partner who will hopefully provide protection from rapists or any other attackers. The group will then take a trip to the thrift store to buy clothes trashy enough to blend with the homeless. On Tuesday or Wednesday, our pioneers will cease to shower and shave to attain in a matter of days the scruffy appearance that comes from successive days and nights spent on the streets. Never mind that cute haircut and healthy glow. When the clock strikes midnight, our Davidson Cinderellas will be magically transformed into a desperate group of homeless young adults. On Friday, they will then board a van — maybe even the Vamanos Van — for their almost free ride to Washington, D.C. Once they arrive, each male-female pair will meet their personal homeless contact. Now they’re ready to spend the next two days living the life of the homeless.

Although this program has endured for many years, obvious safety risks have never been resolved. Not to degrade the male members of this trip, but how can they be expected to provide protection for the pair? It seems very unlikely that a person could rationalize with a psychotic individual or defend themselves from an armed or physically superior person. The danger is enhanced by the fact that the students are discouraged from carrying weapons, which directors say could actually increase danger. Furthermore, these students will be hindered by a lack of sleep, proper nutrition, and a fear they probably have never experienced.

With this huge risk to the safety of the participants, we would hope to find a valid point behind the Urban Plunge. Unfortunately, though, we do not. This program cannot provide the true experience of a homeless person when the students know their comfortable, stable home awaits their return. They will not learn anything we do not already know. You don’t have to sleep on a sidewalk to know that it is hard. You don’t have to skip showers to know you'll smell. You can watch the news and know the dangers of the streets. Not only are these students failing to authentically experience homeless life, but they also fail to help the homeless people in any way. They may even harm them in the process. The students must beg alms to support themselves. These alms would otherwise go to those truly in need. Taking from those less fortunate and deceiving anyone violates the integrity Davidson College claims to uphold. Would the time, effort, and money put into this program not be better spent actively helping homeless people? This game of make-believe is a blatant show of disrespect to those who actually live on the streets. The Urban Plunge has reduced the experience of homelessness to roughing it for a couple of days. Our students merely experience the comparatively easy aspects of street life. While many homeless teens desperately support themselves through prostitution and drug sales, Davidson students will not be forced to resort to such dire means of survival. We don’t wish to offend those involved in this program. It is probably an experience they will never forget. However, the benefits of the Urban Plunge do not outweigh the risks. Our own experiences working in shelters and soup kitchens enabled us to safely understand the desperation of the homeless while at the same time directly helping them. Just remember, when all the Plunging is done, we’re still at Davidson and the homeless are still on the streets.

Humans tend to be self-righteous about whatever they do. Self-righteous thoughts, words, and actions create the majority of problems which exist within the College community. I wish to bring up the terms “open-minded” and “closed-minded” because I have a personal problem with labeling people.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

Self-Righteousness at Davidson?

One should not be getting drunk because they value themselves on how many drinks they can down. There are those people who are proud to go to a school with a national reputation who think that everyone should be studying more so that Davidson can reach No. 1 (what a day that would be!). 

I have met “closed-minded” people who think that their life choices should be everyone's life choices. I have met “open-minded” people who are not “open-minded” to “closed-mindedness.” Is there any difference between the two people? We all have sat in classrooms where certain professors project their egotistical beliefs onto us — that their class is the most important and that their field is the Truth because they have a certain knowledge of their field of study. They point to themselves instead of what they are supposedly teaching. Are they preaching academic doctrine for us to swallow or are they pointing to the sources of knowledge which truly aid in our overall education? Does anyone else feel cheated in their “education?”

We experience religious tension on campus. There are those who wear their “belief banners” so that all may know The Truth. There are also those who wear banners professing their elitism of non-faith. Is there any difference in self-righteous behavior between the two people? We see self-absorption daily in ourselves and in others around us. There are those who think that everyone should be “working out” because their bodies are rock-hard. There are those people “saving the world” through “community service” who think that everyone should commit themselves fully toHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

campus volunteer organizations. “Community service” is more important than listening to a close friend in need, right? There are even those who have already thought through every single word I have written and will say out loud, “I had these thoughts before I even reached puberty!” Excellent. Let go of your pride and share your thoughts in next week’s Davidsonian. Would you rather voice yourself or sit back and be a boring (yet paradoxically silent) critic? To all the self-righteousness, all the pride, all the contradictions of people who have their lives “mapped” out - don’t analyze my writing style. Look at yourself and evaluate. Who are you, besides a person who is quick to judge others? I'll tell you who you are: you are a beautiful person who is capable of looking past yourself and loving others. How can you love yourself enough to truly love others? You know the answer.

Independents, do you have issues that you want addressed by the SGA? Do you want an explanation for a certain program on campus? Do you just want to vent? Well, here is your chance. Your newly elected independent senators — Will Ragland, Molly Allan, Joe Hayworth, Lisa Worthington, Brent Ferrell, and myself — in order to best represent your concerns, are starting an Independents Roundtable in Vail Commons and would like to personally invite all of you to attend. The Roundtable will meet every Wednesday from 11:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. beginning the week after fall break. The Roundtable will aid us, your representatives, in representing your concerns to the SGA to the best of our ability. First, it will be an excellent opportunity for you to share a wonderful Commons meal (ha ha) with your representatives, and voice your concerns about Davidson life. Second, the Roundtable provides a good forum for us to explain to you what the SGA has been working on and what ideas we have to improve Davidson life for independents.

When I was running for senator, I was struck by how many students were unsure of the role of Independent senators. Many were not aware, for example, that there are six independent senators. Many also expressed their doubts about the ability of the SGA to actually effect change. This Roundtable is a prime opportunity for us to show you what we can and are doing to help you. Finally, and most importantly to me, it allows you to meet us in a personal and informal setting so that you will feel free to approach us at any time with any further suggestions or comments. I hope to get to know every independent at Davidson, and this will help facilitate that goal. This Roundtable has a lot of potential, and we are excited about it. Yet it will only work as well as you want it to. To have an open dialogue requires people who are willing to bring ideas to the table. We sincerely hope that every independent will set aside at least one lunch period from his or her busy schedule and join us in an open and informative discussion. Even if you just want to stop by for a few minutes and give us your ideas, that would help us greatly. As Jerry Maguire would say, “Help us help you!”

Three types of drivers: bad, ‘Tain’t in Texas no more.’

You know those people who are always on the road when you are? Those people whose driving skills are so poor that even an aged rodent could outperform them? My dad classifies these people into two groups. First, there’s Bubba and Dwayne Jr. in the faded Chevy half-ton with a gun rack on the back and the “Beef: It’s What’s For Dinner” bumper sticker. Bubba and Dwayne Jr.’s wardrobe can vary anywhere from overalls to a Pep Boys work shirt, but you’ll know them when you see them. Then there’s that incredibly long silver Cadillac that is on the road each Sunday afternoon with three to four blue-haired ladies chatting vigorously with the lone surviving husband struggling to drive in a straight line. This Caddy never exceeds 20, and there is always the obligatory seat belt dragging behind making sparks. These are the people with whom we live and drive. These are the people we cannot stand.

On a recent evening I popped in my Best of Rogers and Hammerstein CD and began a jaunt into Charlotte to visit my sister. This little journey is one of my favorites, but the time I spend on the highway perpetuates the disdain I feel for my fellow motorists. I don’t know what they were insinuating with those hand gestures — maybe they just admired the NRA sticker. I am officially logged into the computers at the Raleigh DMV as a North Carolina resident, but my Texas upbringing — and more importantly my Texas driving skills — are still firmly intact. Maybe it is the fact that the other travelers on Interstate-77 are unimpressed with my vintage automobile, or maybe they don’t like the way I dance in my car. Maybe they are not used to my tendency to test the boundaries of the speed limits. Whatever their issue with me may be, these are not especially friendly people.

I am highly disenchanted with this whole “Hi, I’m the lady in the massive green Buick next to you, and not only are my sunglasses big enough to serve tea on, I’m going to cut you off now” scenario. Get the word out, people: the blinker is not there for mere decoration. It’s OK to go five miles over the limit and even more acceptable not to stop and stare at an unfortunate motorist who has pulled over to deal with a faulty transmission. I'd like to see one or two sport utility vehicles alongside those mini-vans with the wood paneling every once in a while. One more thing, that light isn’t going to get any greener, even if you water it, so get moving! That bad boy is green and I’m in a hurry! I’m a woman who likes to work a highway, and these prissy drivers are getting in my way and on my nerves. I would like to encourage everyone to take time out of their busy study schedule and take a joy ride on I-77. Let’s set the standard, people. Keep your eyes on the road and your foot on the pedal. I’m not knocking North Carolina or its residents, only their driving. Well, OK, that and this vinegar-based barbecue sauce, but we’ll go into that later.