_ OPINIONS _ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

Zik Joseph, Benson Musila, Kuuku Baiden, Anita Keteku, Samai Mohammed, Naa Addo, Narcisse Ewodo

Nothing Like Africa...

In an age in which America is trying to deal with race matters, it’s very perturbing to listen to the manner in which diversity issues are treated under the guise of freedom of speech. From the O.J. court proceedings to the marginalization of diverse groups at this very distinguished institution of higher learning, we, the African students at Davidson, have quietly pondered the very questions this country continues to battle with. While we admit that a great deal of progress has been made (whether in the ability for students from diverse backgrounds to voice their opinions or in the formulation of such structures as diversity classes and forums), there is a lot to be desired.

Faced with a campus that is relatively naive in dealing with diversity, we have had to experience firsthand the stereotypes that tend to be associated not only with blacks but also with peoples from the so-called “Third World.” We felt compelled to keep an open mind given our status as outsiders. But the appearance of an article in last week’s Davidsonian has placed us in a position where we can no longer let our complacency consume us.

In her article entitled “Nothing like the Third World...,” Katherine Okey casually describes how “five little white girls” venture into the Southwestern region of Uganda amidst a trail of personal experiences, as an “escape” from their program in Kenya. We do feel that study-abroad programs such as the one they were on provide a better understanding of other nations just as we ourselves have come to comprehend that America is beyond Hollywood and McDonald's. However, the story told by Okey is not only distorted but further reinforces the stereotype of Africa: that the only thing positive about Africa is its animal population. In fact, the humans she and her friends encounter are simply made to look “crazy.”

It is here that we would like to ask Okey: Did you take time out during your travels to acquire some facts about the East African nation of Uganda rather than limit yourself to making fun of its people? We find it distasteful that despite the amount of guidance and assistance accorded to you on your trip, you show no respect for local customs by simply using “Third World” status as the source of your supposedly rough trip. Did you for a moment stop to ask whether perhaps it was your lack of sensitivity that led the local folks to stare at you in a queer manner? You also make it seem like you were the first white people Ugandans had come into contact with. Uganda has a long history dealing with whites, particularly following the declaration of Uganda as a British colony in 1884. So the kind of reception you got does not in any way reflect the attitudes of people in developing countries but may be a result of your individual contempt for your hosts.

Perhaps many of our readers will recall that Uganda is emerging from one of the worst civil conflicts that left much of its infrastructure damaged. The presence of dilapidated roads in the rural areas of southwestern Uganda should not be looked at by foreigners with humor but rather as a grim reminder of how disastrous war can be. In fact, Uganda’s recovery efforts in the aftermath of the war have been very remarkable to the extent that many analysts predict that with a stable elected government, the country may emerge out of its economic doldrums. We do not want to make a case for Uganda but rather spotlight these facts to show how Okey’s article failed to address some of the issues that would have better provided Davidson community members, who are not familiar with this part of the world, with a fair assessment.

We would like to further add that in the haste to judge an entire country, our fellow student contributed to some of the ignorance about African issues that still lingers around in our modern-day society. This point is illustrated in her conversation with embassy officials in Kampala. To the extent that she can ask whether it is safe for women to travel in that part of the world illuminates her preconception about the state of women in Uganda. Like the United States, Uganda has made it a top priority to ensure the safety of women in all parts of the country. To this effect, the Ugandan government has entrusted its very own female vice-president with the task of ensuring the safety of women. We are left to speculate that maybe you didn’t have the time to dig into some of this information. Nevertheless, the fact that you could have the audacity to make fun of the fine African foods such as mchomo is not any different from what the nineteenth-century colonialists said about the “dark continent.”

In the absence of political correctness, it would therefore not be surprising to us if this same attitude were exhibited to the ethnic groups discriminated against in this developed nation. We believe that as one of the top institutions in this country, Davidson’s standards on issues of diversity should be exemplary. We do not suggest that people align themselves on either the left or right, but should be human. This means the treatment of those of us who constitute a small percentage of the student body should be fair and respectful.Body yet represent a wide array of backgrounds on this campus necessitates a reexamination. Perhaps our imperialistic attitudes toward people who are not part of the mainstream culture may explain the great rift among the races in this country today. In any event, we do believe that in the name of free speech, other people’s beliefs and values ought not to be trampled upon.

Brothers and sisters, I’ve come around to a new way of thinking — I’ve had what alcoholics call a “moment of clarity.” Now, my moment of clarity had nothing to do with alcohol or alcoholism, so don’t get your panties in a bunch and worry that I’m about to get preachy about the dangers of drinking. I’m not. No, my moment of clarity was concerning my own prejudice, blindness, fatheadedness, and hypocrisy concerning friends and fellow students.

It happened like this: I’ve got an internship at Creative Loafing this semester, and last Monday the managing editor called me into his office and asked if I wanted to write a news story about a club that the police had raided on January 31. I told him I’d be glad to, and so on Tuesday afternoon I drove down to Wilkinson Blvd. to check out the club, called The Septic Tank. I met the guy who runs it, a surly Gen-Xer clad entirely in black with purple dreadlocks and enough hunks of metal sticking out of his face to build a Volkswagen engine, if you were to melt them down and had sufficient metal-casting and engine-building skills.

He walked me into the club, and the first thing I noticed was the overwhelming smell of urine and must say that in my blue jeans, corduroy shirt, and cowboy boots, I felt a little bit out of place. Then Mr. I-Didn’t-Realize-That-If-the-Good-Lord-Had-Intended-Us-To-Have-Hair-the-Color-of-Vomit-After-a-Grape-Electric-Jello-Party-He-Would-Have-Given-It-To-Us, along with his two bizarre-as-all-hell buddies, proceeded to explain to me how undercover vice agents had busted them for Sextacy, a party whose events included sex-slave rentals (i.e., prostitution), onstage body piercings, and a hundred-dollar prize for the most unusual stage act. The police arrested a handful of people for crimes against nature and indecent exposure, and the alternative trio sitting in front of me lamented the fact that the police were picking on them and being puritanical. They talked about the importance of celebrating eroticism, which we all know is just an artsy way of saying you’re horny and don’t need a good excuse.

I left The Septic Tank, hopped into my car, pulled on my University of Tennessee baseball cap, and turned on the radio to 96.9, a country station, which I cranked up as I pulled out of the parking lot in an attempt to ease my nerves. Then I went to the government district downtown to get a copy of the police report. Not being from a big city, I was awestruck by the tall buildings and hugeness of the Mecklenburg County government and how I felt like I was in a movie since I had never been in a real-life huge police station. It made me feel damn proud to be an American.

Anyway, I came home after that, and when I set foot on Davidson soil, I thought back to the people I had met and thought about life at Davidson. That’s when I had my moment of clarity; I realized that I’ve been prejudiced against the clean-cut people around here who have the same taste and style. I smiled and said, “God bless normality.” Now, I’ve complained for years about how we’re all too similar here, but when it comes right down to it, I’m not any different than anybody else. I dress the same way, act the same way, talk the same way, and listen to the same music as most people around here. Let me tell y’all — after meeting those fruitcakes on Wilkinson Blvd., I can say with a big smile and a sincere heart, that that’s a good thing.

Before talking to them, I never realized that I like Eddie Bauer and L.L. Bean. I’ve always thought of myself as being a little bit “alternative,” but I’m really nothing more than a country boy with longish hair who tries to have an open mind and dreams of living the glorious, glamorous life of a beach bum novelist. I love Jimmy Buffett and John Grisham. I love Tommy Boy and Lonesome Dove and testosterone-laden action flicks. I love being showered and clean-shaven. I love the taste of hot dogs and cheap beer. I love smiling and winking at people and seeing the world as a place that’s not all that bad if you can keep from being irritated by all the boneheads, numbskulls, and rebels with or without causes. Why, I couldn’t be closer to mainstream American culture if I tried.

For years now, I’ve been thinking I was alternative, but after taking a look at the extreme, I can say that I’d just as soon be what I am and what most everybody here is — an alternative to alternative.

LIFE IN HELL

WILL 2 ABE THE WIE FEARS WHO PROBLEMS OF VIOLENCE

GROENING

AND PEOPLE WHO DON’T LIKE VIOLENCE DON’T LIKE IT CAUSE IT'S GROSS. AND THEY DON'T LIKE TO IMAGINE HOW PAINFUL IT IS. THERE'S THREE MAIN KINDS OF BAD VIOLENCE.

THE FIRST KIND OF BAD VIOLENCE IS A KNIFE.

THE SECOND KIND OF BAD VIOLENCE IS THE GUN. PEOPLE GET SHOT, YOU DON’T SEE ANY BLOOD AT ALL, USUALLY, JUST SEE THEM HOLDING THEIR SIDE.