THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1997

By Mary Clare Jalonick
Editor Emerita

Sherry Adams was hired by the Town of Davidson as the “Downtown Program Manager.” She works with the Davidson merchants
association as a town liaison, and spearheads an effort to shape Main Street into an area that is attractive to
all facets of the Davidson community. And with the recent closure of Cosmic Coffee, she has a big job on
her hands.

Although the sign on the door says that the shop will only be closed for a week, Adams confirms that
the restaurant/coffee shop will not stay open. She sees this as part of a bigger problem on the town’s main
drag. “What Main Street is lacking is a business mix,” she says. Stores are scattered, and focus on very different
crowds. Storefront offices divert shoppers, and student-oriented businesses are virtually nonexistent.

Adams is working with the Downtown Davidson Organization by following “The Main Street Approach.” This method, designed to help small
towns in need of economic revitalization, focuses on working with all areas of a community to build a successful downtown.
She says that Davidson’s downtown is not in dire straits, but could use some help.

Part of her job is finding merchants to open businesses in the town. She hopes to keep Cosmic’s space as
a coffee shop, and has been calling prospective investors to see if they are interested. However, she hopes that a
coffee shop is only the beginning. “I would love to see a music store, video store, clothing store, lunch place,
or brewery come to Davidson,” she says.

Adams would also like to see an increase in the number of stores on the street. “We would like to
keep storefronts retail-oriented. That includes restaurants. If we look at Main Street from a marketing plan, we want to cluster
businesses together,” she says. She has hopes for the Davidson Mill, which will be renovated within the next few years.
The old warehouse on Watson Street will house shops and restaurants, creating another shopping area in Davidson. “I am hoping
that they will try and put some middle-scale stores there,” she says. “It is all incremental steps,” she says. “It
has to all evolve slowly.”

Student Health Fair: Counselors offer help to stressed-out students

By Stephen Cefalu
Staff Writer

As finals approach, the collective anxiety level among students will begin to rise exponentially. To combat this phenomenon, the counselors
at the Student Counseling Center want students to know that they are here to help. Under the direction of Dr.
DeWitt Crosby, Student Counseling Center representatives will be conducting anxiety disorder screenings as part of the Student Health Fair to
be held this Wednesday, April 16, from 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on Chambers Lawn. During the early part of
this week, pamphlets and a videotape presentation on anxiety disorders will also be made available in the front lobby of
the College Union.

Student Counseling Center Director Dr. David Staton says the purpose of the anxiety disorder screenings is to heighten awareness about
what is one of the most commonly diagnosed diseases everywhere. “Too often people with anxiety disorders think they’re the only
ones experiencing them, and so they isolate themselves,” he says.

Staton cautions that there is a marked difference between common anxiety and that which constitutes a disorder. According to the
National Institute of Mental Health, “mental health professionals are not concerned with normal anxiety. Rather, they attend to fear and...anxiety
that has somehow gone awry; that inexplicably reaches overwhelming levels; that dramatically reduces or eliminates productivity and significantly intrudes on
an individual’s quality of life.” The organization states that nearly 25% of the adult population of the United States experiences
an anxiety disorder at some point during the course of their lives. While the National Institute of Mental Health’s third
annual National Anxiety Disorders Screening Day will not, itself, occur until May 7, the organization encourages college campus communities to
host screenings at more convenient times during the academic year. This year’s Anxiety Disorder Screening Day will be Davidson’s first.
Originally slated for March, the event was pushed back in order to accommodate alcohol awareness week programming.

“We want to emphasize that anxiety disorders do not in any way involve an issue of character or willpower,” says
Dr. Staton. “They happen to all sorts of people in all walks of life, and there are many effective forms
of treatment available.”

Dear Commons Management: More vegetarian chili, please! Sure it’s warmer out, but we like it.

Fuentes rescues Spanish canon from Fascist repression
By WIT BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Victor Fuentes, professor at the University of California-Santa Barbara, lectured on the formation of the literary canon in twentieth-century Spain
on Monday and Tuesday last week in the Union. On Monday, Fuentes discussed the importance of politics in Spanish literature,
particularly the twenty years leading up to the Fascist Francisco Franco’s ascent to power in 1936. Much of Fuentes' work
in this area centers around recovering the works of social protest which were buried by the politics of the twenties
and thirties. His talk on Monday was delivered in English in an attempt to include the entire College community. Fuentes
changed gears on Tuesday, delivering the lecture in Spanish and focusing on the bohemian writers who emerged in early twentieth-century
Spain. These writers, noted not only for their literary gifts but their unconventional lifestyles, were one of the silenced groups
during the turmoil of the Spanish Civil War. However, the work of both these groups is beginning to resurface due
to the labor of scholars such as Fuentes and a less restrictive Spanish government. The Spanish department sponsored Fuentes’ lectures.

Recruitment works for diversity
Admissions from page 1

where they feel they are a part of the turf. Because of the nature of the environment, kids sometimes feel
like outsiders. The increases in numbers will help that.” Jenkins agrees. “There is a social issue at Davidson that crosses
all lines. Students at Davidson tend to be unexposed.” She also says that African-American numbers at Davidson are lower because
“Davidson is not a name they have heard all of their lives — it’s harder to get them to apply.
And the typical applicant has so many choices.” Despite the heavy recruitment, however, Cable says students are admitted for overall
excellence. “We consider it our charge to shape a freshman class. Consideration of ethnic diversity is one part of what
we do. We don’t have black students here just to have black students, but to make it a stronger academic
place.” “It is very exciting to see that the issue of having a culturally diverse place is a concern of
the community,” says Satterwhite. “The College has real potential.”

CONEHEAD
A young licker sits curbside to enjoy her free double-scoop on Thursday as part of Ben & Jerry’s Free Cone
Day.
Anna Judy
