THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

From growth to maturity: McGall Lecturer changing paradigm

By ANN CULP* News Editor

Bill McKibben, an author and environmentalist, gave a lecture entitled “Between Hope and Fear: An Environmental History of the Next 50 Years” in the 900 Room on Thursday night. He was chosen by the Public Lectures Committee as the McGall Lecturer when students voiced a desire for a more environmental speaker. The Recycling, Environmental Action, Earth Day, and Biology Committees and Davidson Outdoors helped to co-sponsor this speaker. The strong support makes the idea of an Environmental Affairs concentration that much more appealing.

As quantitative evidence is formed, emphasis has been placed on environmental problems. More severe storms and higher temperatures demonstrate that humans are heating up the planet. In addition, “the world grain supply has not expanded in the past ten years. That makes changing as much as we need to change very difficult. Don’t make the assumption that the appearance of environmental problems will make us go to work, though,” says McKibben.

There are two types of environmental problems according to McKibben: those which have been created by technology and can be solved and those which occur because naturally occurring processes happen at too high a level. One example of the solvable problem would be the use of catalytic converters to keep carbon monoxide created by cars out of the atmosphere. However, those same cars produce carbon dioxide which occurs naturally and is also the chief heat-trapping gas now in the planet. The average car releases its own weight in carbon annually.

“Technology has to fight continually the mathematical momentum created by growth. We’ve pretty much locked ourselves into that growth paradigm; most of us live in a group of pretty relentless consumerism,” says McKibben. The only effective response to the environmental crisis would be a dramatic shift in the world’s lifestyle, a world where one in five people watch “Baywatch” regularly.

“As we are dragged into this environmental era, we find ourselves facing intellectual problems,” says McKibben. If the growth model creates more problems than benefits, then we need a new model. “Changing paradigms calls on every scale and every discipline represented in this room tonight.”

McKibben introduced the need for the world to mature, not grow. He says, “We are approaching real physical boundaries. Every place around us you can see our presence. Now we need to move toward maturity, a society that does not value exuberant growth. We need to begin developing in a spiritual, ethical, cultural sense.”

McKibben is the author of numerous books including The End of Nature, which has been translated into 16 languages.

The theme for the 1996-97 Public Lectures Committee speakers was “Stewardship of the World, Response to a World in Crisis, and Service to Critical Needs of the World’s People.” McKibben was the third in a series of four endowed lectures: Morris Dees, Director of the Southern Poverty Law Center, will be speaking on April 9 on “Teaching Tolerance” in Love Auditorium as the Wearn Lecturer. President Kuykendall will be speaking on the Committee’s theme on May 6.

Frightening Possibilities

As part of Alcohol Awareness Week, the Davidson Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department staged a DUI rescue at the Union.

Bill Giduz Seafood, BBQ, & CateringCatering Hwy. 21 South
10% discount on Dinner Plates with your Davidson College ID
Digital Pager (704) 513-3552
Cornelius, NC
Work (704) 892-3362
(704) 782-5770
Bill, Brian, & Marty, Owners

Want a job? Students advising careers
By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

Since last fall, Davidson students have been able to find out about summer jobs, internships, and career opportunities by talking to other students. Three career advisors, or “CAs,” act as front line people in the Career Services Office to talk to students and direct them to available resources. Brent Gilbert '99, Alan Thomson ’97, and Lori Bramblett ’97 currently act as CAs. Bill Felty, Associate Director of Career Services, calls the CAs “a great help.” Career advisors are an asset to make referrals and interact with walk-ins. The idea behind the program is that it might be easier to talk to one’s peers initially. The CAs can also set up appointments for students to meet with staff in the Career Services. Three new people will be needed to replace the current CAs in the fall. Prospective career advisors may have an interest in mentoring, counseling, or human services work. Students should stop by Career Services to pick up an application, due March 28.

KUDZU ON SOUTH BROAD
International cuisine with a southern twist
An 1859 House, Fresh Ingredients, Homemade Bread & Desserts, Vegetarian Selections, Fine Wines & Beers
PATIO NOW OPEN!
Lunch: Tues - Fri 11:30-2:00, from $3.95
Dinner: Tues - Sat 5:30 - 'til, from $7.95
Open Sundays for Easter, Mother's Day and Davidson Graduation
259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, 663-1859
Off Premise Catering & Private Rooms for Special Occasions

Lewis publishes research
By JEFFREY COKER
Staff Writer

A promising study by Dr. Carole Lewis will appear in an upcoming issue of the journal Brain Research. Her study may help researchers to find an estrogen treatment that does not increase a woman’s risk of uterine and cervical cancer. Estrogen prevents sexual discomfort during menopause, decreases the risk of osteoporosis and heart attacks, and protects neurons in the brain. More and more women are looking to estrogen therapy to ease the strain on the body after menopause. Lewis’s research shows that the estrogen 17-alpha-dihydroxy, may have beneficial effects on the brain of female rats. It increased the density of synaptic connections in the hippocampus which is needed for cognition and memory. This effect has been especially beneficial in treating women with Alzheimer’s disease. The 17-alpha proved as effective in treating rats as 17-beta estradiol, the form of estrogen currently used, without the increased cancer risk.

“Estrogen’s effects on the body and brain are far-reaching and this is very obvious when the body is deprived of it after menopause. I hope to help us gain a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying its action,” Lewis says. The experiment was completed in collaboration with Dr. Scott Washburn and Dr. Carole Shidley at Bowman-Grey Medical School at Wake Forest University and with nearly a year’s worth of assistance from Kristy Ford, a Davidson College senior. “She has been a wonderful help and contributed a lot to the research,” says Lewis. Brian Halton also assisted last semester.

Kiss me, I’m an Irish newswriter.

NO GIMMICKS EXTRA INCOME NOW!
Envelope stuffing--$600-$800 dollars every week
Free details: SASE to International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, NY 11230