————E HI}. SUNDAY © | MONDAY

8:00-9:00 | Ferrentino/Andrew Griswold
9:00-10:00 | Kirk: Jason Hamrick
10:00-11:00 | grott
11:00-Noon | Andrew Griswold
Noon-1:00 | Derek Kvemo: Doug Meislahn
1:00-2:00 | Peter Simpson
2:00-3:00 | Jaz Christopher Hadley White/Aaron Sundstrom
3:00-4:00 | Elizabeth Coleman, Cam Houser, Brantley Kilsting, Taylor J, Emily Muell, Ross Hagen, Brad Shipman, Josie Hoover/Luke Roberts
4:00-5:00 | Spanky/Delicious, Lindsay Gibson, Howie Cockrill, Tom Knowles, Jehan Shamsid-Deen, Trevor Hackman
5:00-6:00 | ties/Jon Williams, Christopher Louvet, Lindsay Vagt, Charles LeGrand, Matt Jung, Jennifer Simmons, Chad Diamond, Elizabeth Fleming, Ben Carter/Connor, Peter Simpson, Dustin Edge, Stephen Nash, Matthew Hurt
6:00-7:00 | Jaz Ware, Twe Talkin, Anne Peter Simpson, Amy Council/Lori, Miles Cox, Anne Nickel, Kevin Smith
7:00-8:00 | Nickel/Carl Victor Talbird, Americana, Beppu Sukentk, Victor Talbird, John Paulas, Jason Hamrick, Pan Baker/Chris, Matthew Staton, Jenny Solberg, Thom Blaylock
8:00-9:00 | Classic Jazz, Gyves, Stephanie Gray, Sarah Hankins, Jack Morse, Mark Overbay
9:00-10:00 | Hank's Honey, Dom Talvacchio, House, Abigail Bergsma, Loveline: Heather, Amanda Walker, Barrett Mallos, Melissa Otis/Dan, Trey Davis
10:00-11:00 | nome Hern: Perry/Kim Shuey, Motts BritPunk, Hank Ackerman, Melissa Platner, Dave Kearfott, Norrie Hearon
11:00-Midnight | Joy Minchew, Andy Boswell, Mark Kovacs, Will White/Scott Wilson, Walker, Mike Newman, Cooper Dean, Doug Meislahn, Ed Anderson
Midnight-1:00 | Hutchins: Hord-Trevor Hackman
1:00-2:00 | Core

WALT taking college radio to next level
Where independent and mainstream meet to battle it out over the airwaves of Davidson

By JENNIFER MILLER
Staff Writer

Every day, WALT wages war on mainstream culture with hard-to-find new music, no dirty words, and the best taste on AM radio. WALT is entirely student-run. For WALT, every day is a Saturday: it starts at noon and plays late into the night, usually until about 2 AM.

WALT sports specialty shows ranging from Jazz to Chick-rock-according-to-Sarah Hankins. More than student radio, WALT is college radio, the latest forum for alternative music. Music that critics once called underground is now targeted at college radio stations. Promoters, record labels, and bands send WALT about 10 to 15 new CDs a week which all go through the ears of Doug Meislahn, the music director. Meislahn compiles a rotation bin of the promos and charts and decides how often each one is played in a month. Like other college radio stations across the country, WALT sends this list to the College Music Journal.

For many new bands, college radio is the proving ground, and record labels are interested in student response. WALT is significant as the only reporter to the CMJ in the Charlotte area. WALT introduces new bands that have either found no place on the mainstream FM dial or groups that want to target a more select audience. WALT is also the only source of hard-to-find tour information of bands like Yo La Tengo, the Blue Rag, and the Squirrel Nut Zippers. Bands from REM to Beck have made their premiers on college radio. Listening to WALT continues a tradition of the college scene, and gives a first crack at what could one day be the next Superchunk. (“Man, like, I used to listen to them on College Radio.”)

WALT has no set forum, except the unspoken avoidance of top 40 songs. Its 91 disc jockeys have full creative range as long as they avoid dirty words and bad taste. Always open to suggestions, the DJs take requests. If this sounds appealing, some morning spots are still open. (Call Jennifer Simmons for DJ information.) WALT hopes to start playing at the Union at night, and wants to expand its accurate reporting of fresh music. (Matt Staton wants the senior class gift to be an FM antenna.)

As on the music scene, stagnation is death. Student participation in WALT has been on the rise since its revival in the spring of 1995 from a six-year hiatus.Hands-on experience with equipment and mass communication is hard to find elsewhere. You only need open ears and an AM antenna to join the fun. =KUDZ1* ON SOUTH BROAD

Virgo (August 23-September 22) — Ah, vestal Virgos. This week, you...

Libra (September 23-October 22) — An army of homunculi (riding on eohippi—who knew?) lays siege to the Union. Actually, they’re first-year students. Be careful, these little men have a bee in their collective bonnet. Lucky Place: Davidson’s own Champs de Mars: Richardson Field.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21) — Mother Nature, Father Time, and Old Men River and Winter converge upon you in a bevy of activity this week. Fight the elements with an old-fashioned roundelay.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21) — You've got two turntables (or lazy susans) and a microphone. And you thought that you were alone in the world.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19) — Avoid Lake Norman, as a flotilla of FCA-ers has been sighted in the area. These latter-day Argonauts are out to hang you by a yardarm. Sinners in the hands of an angry god.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18) — Canvass campus for all flags that are un-illuminated. Couch them in heavenly mandorlas, or just steal them. Are you ridiculous? Yes, yes you are. Lucky Logic: false and/or skewed. Lucky Code: Honor.

Pisces (February 19-March 20) — People in the commons “literally walk on water.” Wow, did you know that? Pulper fiction if I have ever heard it. Lucky Place: Bethsaida.

Aries (March 21-April 19) — Young parvenus in your classes? Typique. Tell those people in your cunniloquium to cool it now. Ooh watch out. They’re going to lose control.

Taurus (April 20-May 20) — Toys of yore are a leitmotif this week. Think of the ones with really utilitarian names like Baby Alive™ or Simon™. Invoke the spirit of Xavier Roberts, but avoid that creepy thing that made him sign his name on butts.

Gemini (May 21-June 20) — Esoteric, formulaic and often incomprehensible speech about the occult is no way to make friends, at least not at Davy College. Un/lucky hocus pocus: channeling Polly Griffin and/or pretending that Tom Shandley’s house is the temple of your familiar.

Cancer (June 21-July 22) — As usual for you, Cancer, life is so great that you almost cannot sustain yourself. This week, your thesis writes itself, your professors cancel class and members of your preferred sex fall at your feet. Why? Because you are amazing.

Leo (July 23-August 22) — The putrescence of Patterson Court is pervasive. Does “sorority” mean “identity subverter” or “stupid” in Greek? Take your pick. Dream the impossible dream, whatever that may be. Lucky place: Chambers dungeon.

FREE T-SHIRT BRUEGGER'S BAGELS

+$1000 Totally completely obsessed with freshness ~ Credit Card fundraisers

Now Hiring: for fraternities, sororities & groups. Any campus organization can raise up to $1000 by earning a whopping $5.00/VISA application. Call 1-800-932-0528 ext 65. Qualified callers receive FREE T-SHIRT.

Now Hiring: BAKERS & Cashier/Servers
* Full and Part-time Positions Available
* Advancement Opportunities Available
* Great Starting Wages and Benefits
Apply in person at: South Pry Shopping Center (Torrance Chapel Rd. in Cornelius)
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

International cuisine with a southern twist
259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, North Carolina 28115
704-663-1859

COSTA RICA. The Organization for Tropical Studies in partnership with Duke University offers a field-oriented semester abroad program in tropical ecology and Latin American culture. Students earn 16 credit hours in biology, environmental science, and Spanish language & culture. Application deadline for 1998 Spring semester is October 15, 1997.

Study Paradise this Spring
Credits may be transferred from Duke.
* hands-on biology
* cultural immersion
* field trips
* independent projects
* remote field sites
* research
* exotic wildlife

For brochure and application materials, contact:
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Box 90633, Durham NC 27708-0633
Tel: (919) 684-5774; E-mail: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>
http://www.ots.duke.edu