THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats must bounce back from losses to Furman and Richmond

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

Once again, Lucy pulled the football away just as Charlie Brown was about to kick it. That analogy has become an inside joke between Furman and Wildcats head coach Kevin Hundley and assistant coach Biche. But they don’t think it’s funny, especially after the Wildcats lost a heartbreaker to Furman 2-1 in overtime Wednesday night in Greenville, S.C. They followed that with a 2-1 loss to Richmond Saturday at the lower varsity field.

Davidson took a 1-0 lead against the Paladins when Kelly Rennick scored off a pass from Amy Kanoff at the 50:26 mark. But with less than four minutes left in regulation, Furman’s Sarah Tollick took an assist from Jill Braley to tie the game. Braley then notched the game-winning tally in the 27th minute of overtime to give Furman the win and secure a home game in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament.

“After Furman, we were devastated,” Hundley said. “When you put that much heart and soul into a game like that, it’s a bitter pill to swallow. This team has tasted that pill too many times this year.”

They tasted it again Saturday as the Spiders’ freshman phenom, Brooke Sands, redirected two first-half crosses into the back of the net. She is one of the top 10 scorers in the country with 16 goals. The Wildcats came out with intensity in the second half, but could not score until Rhina Roberts tallied Davidson’s lone goal at the 87:14 mark. It was a game in which Richmond had more scoring opportunities and capitalized on them.

“She’s a finisher,” Hundley said of Sands. “Every time she touches the ball, she’s dangerous.”

“UNCG has two players like that,” he added. That is why the Spartans are favored to win this week’s Southern Conference tournament. “They’ve been the favorite from day one, and they’ve shown that,” Hundley said. “They should win the conference tournament. Anything else would be a shock.”

Hundley gave every team in the league some advice about trying to upset the nationally-ranked Spartans. “It will take good goalkeeping (to beat UNCG). There are three (conference teams) who have quality keepers who could shut them down,” he said. “You also have to avoid giving them scoring chances because they have two big guns up front. If we play them, we'll have to play for the full 90 minutes and hopefully sneak in a goal.”

That is something neither Furman nor Davidson could do against UNCG in the regular season. Both teams held Greensboro to a 0-0 tie in the first half before falling 3-0. “We'd love to get another shot at UNCG,” Hundley said, “but we have to earn that.”

With the loss at Furman Wednesday, the Wildcats received the fifth seed in the league tournament, the semis and finals of which Davidson will host this weekend at the lower varsity field. But the Wildcats will have to avenge their loss to the Paladins if they want to advance to the semifinals. Whether they win or lose tonight, they will play their final game at Richardson Field Thursday at 6:00 p.m. against North Carolina St. That contest was scheduled before the league tourney format was changed to accommodate an NCAA play-in game on Nov. 8. If Davidson loses to Furman, the Wolfpack will be the last opponent of the year. But with a victory in Greenville, the State game will virtually be a full-speed practice for the Wildcats before they face UNC Greensboro. The Spartans should have an easy first-round match.

Wofford is the No. 2 seed in the draw, but they lost to the Wildcats at Richardson Field 2-0 on Oct. 10. The Terriers benefitted from playing Appalachian St. at home, while Davidson and Georgia Southern had to play the Mountaineers on the AstroTurf at Boone. The Wildcats earned a scoreless tie, and the Eagles lost. Those results contributed to Davidson’s 4-10-2 record, but the regular season can be thrown out the window now.

“As much as we would have liked to have won those games,” Hundley said, “we’ll gladly trade those losses for wins in the conference tournament.

“We haven’t been a consistent goal-scoring team. But the trip up North, especially at Brown (a 2-1 overtime loss), was a turning point. We got hosed. But instead of sitting down and crying, we got mad.

“I wish we could get a result to justify our hard work. Unfortunately, that is not the way the game works.”is not used to losing,” Hundley added. “I believe, for the underclassmen, this is part of their growing experience.” They have had to grow a lot this season because injuries have plagued the Wildcats since their first game. In that contest, Kelly Schmidt injured her ankle in the opening minutes on Aug. 31 at South Carolina. Natalie Stumpf injured her knee in the first five minutes of the Furman game Wednesday night. She is waiting to receive results from an MRI taken Saturday morning to determine her status for tonight’s game. Schmidt re-injured her ankle in the second half and did not return. But she did play Saturday. “Her ankle has never been 100 percent,” Hundley said. “But she sees the number of games left in her career, and she wants to play.”

Defense has been key for Wildcats’ late run

Throughout this season, the defensive unit has been a microcosm for the men’s soccer team. Young talent that, with experience, keeps improving. Losing virtually every starter from last year’s team to graduation, there has been an overhaul in the defensive personnel this season. Gone from last season are goalkeeper Matt Hill, captain Isaac Stewart, team MVP Chad Lagerway, and three-year starter Fernando Campos. In are Brad Stroble, Randy Culbertson, Andy Lanoha, and Patrick Miller.

“Those guys from last year had so much experience that’s tough to replace,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “But we haven’t been crushed defensively.” Led by Stroble, a junior keeper, this year’s youthful defense has done just fine, recently posting several solid performances, including a pair of shutouts over ACC opponents. After starting the season 1-6, Stroble has won six of his last eight outings, allowing just 11 goals during that span. He can thank his defense for those numbers.

Spirited by a change in the sweeper position, the Wildcat defense has been fierce lately. Lanoha switched to that post after the UNC Greensboro victory, allowing Culbertson—whose overtime goal beat the Spartans—to fully utilize his offensive capabilities. “It was kind of funny because I was just getting used to sweeper when coach switched me,” said Culbertson, who played both midfield and forward—but not defense—in high school. “The switch has gone smoothly, and Andy and I are working together well.”

“It really has been the best of both worlds,” Miller said. “Andy is really the vocal leader, the organizer of the group, and Randy is able to use his offensive skills more freely.” But this unit does more than play defense. Perhaps more impressive than their recent stinginess in the backfield is their work on offense. Because of the ball-control offense Slagle has utilized, the defensemen act as point men during the offensive game. “I ask them not just to defend the ball, but to possess the ball,” Slagle said. “They have really stepped up.” This year’s defense has tallied seven points, already eclipsing last year’s total of four.

Miller, Lawrence Cann, and quad-captain Jeff Weekes play on the outside, and often create the offense for Davidson. “It has been a lot of fun to get up in the play,” said Miller, whose first collegiate goal beat Georgia Southern Sunday in Statesboro. Weekes, the lone senior in the group, also scored against the Eagles. And Cann, the scoring leader among the defense, appears to have gotten healthy at the right time, starting only his second game since last month’s Richmond contest on Sunday. “This year’s defense has been asked to do so much, and they have really risen to the occasion,” Slagle said. “Both defensively and offensively.”

Wildcats lose to Appalachian, upset Ga. Southern, look towards conference tourney

With 20 minutes remaining in the game, rookie midfielder Dane Erickson crossed the ball to Drew Lindsey, whose shot bounced off Eagle goalkeeper Mike Burrell. Weekes was there to chest the ball into the net to tie the game. And 10 minutes later, Patrick Miller launched the game-winner from beyond the 18-yard mark. David Buehler opened the scoring for the Wildcats 30 minutes into the game, heading in a Miller assist to even the score at one. But Pat Parris countered two minutes later to give Georgia Southern the 2-1 halftime advantage.

On Friday, the Wildcats jumped on top of Appalachian less than two minutes into the game. But in hindsight, Phil Julien’s early score may have hurt Davidson. “When we scored so early, I think the team may have taken the attitude that this was not going to be a hard game,” Slagle said. “They have played a lot of teams in the conference close this year, and they played very well against us.” But give credit to App. St. The Mountaineers took a 2-1 halftime lead, and held on for the victory.

With potential conference wins today at VMI and Friday against Wofford at Richardson Field, the Wildcats would secure at least a No. 2 seed in the Southern Conference tournament next week. But losing both games—and with losses to App. St. and conference doormat The Citadel, Davidson has proved it can lose to anyone—could force Davidson to play on the road in the first round of the tournament.