THE DAVIDSONIAN

Winner of 14 Academy Awards among best films ever

By Naresh Nagella
Associate Editor

I did not see “The English Patient” until it came out on video and only after it won 14 Academy
Awards. I sort of resented the movie because I thought “Jerry Maguire” was snubbed and I really did not want
to see a three-hour movie in which the main character is an invalid burned beyond recognition. But I just could
not avoid never seeing the film which garnered the second-highest amount of Oscars in film history (Gone with the Wind
is first) and I decided to view the film over Fall Break.

I can now honestly tell you that The English Patient — which plays in the 900 Room Thursday and Friday
nights — is one of the best movies you will ever see. I can say that objectively because the movie
aims high and hits as it masterfully explores the universal human verbs — live, love, suffer, and die — better
than any other movie I have ever seen.

It starts with a glimpse of its exotic, traditional, and excellent score — part classical, part Hungarian gypsy — which
the filmmakers use perfectly in reprise and plot development. The music puts you into a trance-like, dreamy state which the
movie will not fail to continue. The story then begins at its end — for the end is death and
the story to be told is of life and love — showing a tiny plane piloted by Ralph Fiennes’ character,
Count Almasy, silhouetted against the expanse of the vast, empty, beautifully picturesque Saharan desert. It also carries his love —
Kristen Scott Thomas — and looks to be teetering.

The movie then quickly unites a hodgepodge of survivors from the waning days of World War II. At the center
of the tale is Juliette Binoche, who plays a Canadian nurse that decides to care for the burnt, dying Fiennes
in an Italian monastery. They are joined by an Indian Lieutenant and bomb defusing expert, Naveen Andrews, whom Binoche falls
in love with but is scared to get close to since all her friends have been killed in the war.
Next, a Canadian/American thief/army officer, Willem Dafoe, joins their group determined to solve the mystery of the events that led
to having his fingers cut off.

The main love story centers around Fiennes’ and Scott-Thomas’ torrid and tragic love affair. Fiennes excellently radiates a slick, coiled
passion for his desert obsession and Thomas plays her role in a seductively brittle way. One of the best parts
of the movie is watching Fiennes slowly unravel for he is a rich man who has built a closeted life
exploring the African desert and closing his heart to most other passions. War does not bother him. But he cannot
avoid the allure of Scott-Thomas and, as their sexual and cosmic attraction flares, their romance invigorates the otherwise desolate, barren
desert. (I cannot believe I just wrote that sentence, but, hey, it’s true.) Anyone who has ever had an intense
crush or infatuation can easily understand the agony of Fiennes’ dilemma for he is a man who ravenously lets his
obsession get the better of him — dooming him in the end. He should have won the Academy Award for
his performance.

This main romance lets one of the film’s bigger themes — love’s resiliency and the power of passion — spin
off to other characters. Andrews’ character arrives from an Indian culture that frowns upon open love and shies away from
the romance that involves. Yet he and Binoche soon begin to understand their mutual attraction, for they both long to
experience a fruitful love and that’s enough. Dafoe’s character learns of the secret that caused his debilitating injury and his
planned vendetta turns into a show of empathy and understanding. In this movie, wherever love can go, it does —
and infectiously fills an air otherwise polluted by the smoke of war.

One of my favorite aspects of the movie, though, is that its characters are flawed, regular, and represent the individuals
affected by a war in which nations are at stake. Fiennes plays his character remotely and abruptly. Scott-Thomas can seem
rather selfish and mean. Binoche is definitely not glamorous or too smart which allows her innocence and suffering to win
you over and seem more real.

I bet if this movie were a more formulaic Hollywood film (which usually suits me just fine — but some
variety is nice), Fiennes would have not just been a cartographer but, instead, a famous ace-fighter pilot who undergoes a
miraculous plastic surgery after his burn. He would then end up marrying Scott-Thomas as he saves her in some large-scale
battle in which he single-handedly kills a squadron of Nazi soldiers while liberating some country under German rule. Instead, the
movie has a simplicity that amazes considering how effective it can be.

The English Patient makes no mention of the Hitlers, Mussolinis, Churchills, or Roosevelts that directed the war. Politics is not
really mentioned. Nations do not matter so much for our main characters. They are enjoined in a catastrophic tale in
which they can find or seek a certain human fellowship and understanding — war making victims and sufferers of them
all.

Accordingly, The English Patient is a celebration of all that is individual and human — things which could seemingly get
along just fine if ephemeral, questionable forces like nationalism did not get in the way. The movie’s title and its
ultimate, gut-wrenching irony deals with this theme. The movie hints that humans can be magical together, but we stupidly ruin
it. A measure for any good piece of art is whether it lets you understand or it lets you cope.
The English Patient does both.of these, for it teaches and heals as love, which no one can ever destroy, prevails.
This movie is one for which you thank Davidson for giving you the education which lets you understand it in
different ways, however. I do not usually buy the critical acclaim of films, dismissing it as hyperbole, but, when Richard
Corliss of Time magazine says of The English Patient: “This, you realize with a gasp of joy, is what movies
can do!,” he is right. I think it struck a chord with critics and the public because it actually achieved
what its producers called it — the status of an “intimate epic” — a movie that tugs at all your
personal feelings and is still vast in nature and subject. I praise the movie this much and only saw it
on video where the sweeping camera shots and the epic nature of the film do not get the justice they
deserve. So if you have not seen it, this week gives you a chance to avoid the trip to Blockbuster
and enjoy the film at an optimal level. It won’t return to the big screen anytime soon, so everyone should
go and see it as it plays Wednesday and Friday at the Union. It is definitely worth the relatively low
price of admission. Grade: A+

Promising poet and former Davidson returns to campus
By Dominick TALVACCHIO
Guest Writer

Sudeep Sen, according to one critic, is “intent on being heard without raising his voice.” Such was the case on
Wednesday afternoon in the 900 Room, where Sen read to an audience that collectively represented the span of his career:
former professors, old classmates, and budding poets. Sen, an Indian poet who writes and publishes exclusively in English, was an
International Scholar at Davidson in 1987-88. His busy life finds him dividing his time between Delhi and London, and Davidson
warmly welcomed him back to read from his recently published collection of poems titled Postmarked India, which contains new poems
and selected pieces from each of his eight previous publications. One of these, The Lunar Visitations (1990), actually began as
a project written at Davidson under the direction of English professor Tony Abbott.

Nothing but grey light filtered through the high windows of the 900 Room during a reading that even Sen called
“morbid.” Sen need not apologize, though, for his self-confessed inability to create a humorous poem that does not “fall flat
on its face.” Rather, the heaviness of his poetic voice left his listeners mesmerized in the silence following each poem.
The struggle to unfold the complex layers of his identity is Sen’s prevailing poetic object. There is a singularity in
his circumstance that might render even a post-colonial reading of Sen’s poetry inadequate. My given task, upon entering the 900
Room, was to appreciate Sen’s reading doubly: both for me and for a friend unable to attend. It was not
difficult. Sen, in both his power of observation and in his ability to translate observation into poetry, has a remarkable
eye for detail, taking very seriously Flaubert’s notion (quoted in Postmarked India) that “poetry is as exact a science as
geometry.” Sen gives rigorous attention to the formal aspects of his poetry, as he took time to explain on more
than one occasion the structural underpinnings of his work. His rigorous treatment, though, is often of routine objects: a walk
through New York streets (in the New York Times, Abbott’s favorite poem of Sen’s), a phone conversation, a knock on
the door. Sen’s unique power of composition turns the average into the sublime, the real into the absurd, the everyday
into tragedy at once. Sen’s themes touch the philosophical, political, and cultural dimensions of his life. Throughout it all one
can hear the conflicted sense of his poetry in, if nothing else, the strong Indian accent in which he speaks
beautifully crafted English sentences. Sen seems to find himself not somewhere between the East and the West but, rather, in
both places.

Reynolda Trio plays for 19
By Wesley H. GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

The Reynolda Trio, a musical ensemble from Wake Forest University, played in Hodson Hall last Monday. The group is comprised
of Marlene Hoirup (piano), Mark Hartman (violin), and Selina Carter (cello). The program consisted of Mendelssohn’s Trio No. 1 in
D Minor and Brahms’s Trio No. 2 in C Major. When the trio took the stage at 8:07 p.m., they
were greeted by the loudest ovation that the 19-member audience could muster, in what may have been the most poorly
attended recital in Hodson Hall’s 36-year history.

Hoirup was the most impressive instrumentalist of the three, having received her master’s degree from Juilliard. Her performances of both
the Brahms and the Mendelssohn were commendable. Despite his awkward posture, Hartman delivered a brave performance. His statuesque appearance made
him look more like a fiddler than a classical violinist. Although his tone was weak, he exhibited respectable intonation and
cleanliness, which was all the more astonishing considering his stiff, unpolished appearance. The quality of his performance steadily increased throughout
the concert. Carter, a cellist in the Winston-Salem Piedmont Triad Symphony, showed admirable talent. Her lack of volume inhibited her
performance, but with the aid of a better instrument the deficiency could have been alleviated.

The most frustrating aspect of the concert, by far, was the minuscule crowd size. Not only did the number of
fans in attendance begin at a measly 19, but the throng had diminished to 15 after intermission and to 12
by the end of the show. Granted, the performance was of semi-professional caliber at best, which undoubtedly led to the
dwindling attendance. Most concerts of this sort benefit from a reasonable amount of faculty and student support, whereas this performance
was seen by a grand total of three students and no professors (with the exception of Dr. Botelho in the
sound booth). The poor attendance may have been partly caused by a profound lack of advertising. Although the Reynolda Trio’s
performance fell short of stellar, they definitely deserved more than the tiny smattering of applause they were fated to receive.
