By Lisa Worthington, Staff Writer

On Monday, Nov. 10, the Student Advisory Council to Residence Life had its first meeting of the year with Kurt Holmes, director of RLO, and Dee Jordan, assistant director of RLO. The main purpose of the meeting was to inform students of the projects currently underway.

The first issue is the housing lottery. Students can expect this spring’s lottery to be much less complicated than those of past years. There are three significant changes in regard to this year’s lottery. First, the process will not begin until February (in previous years, it began in January). This change is being implemented to reduce the overall amount of time spent “in lottery” and in order for students to have more time to settle disputes over financial balances and class status, two factors which can prevent students from receiving their lottery numbers on time. Second, all applications will be made available at the same time as the lottery booklet, which explains how the lottery works and lists deadlines. Hopefully, this change will help students remember important dates regarding the lottery. Finally, the process has been reduced to two phases (from the previous three). Phase I will take place just after Spring Break and involves initial applications for the Martin Court Apartments. Phase II will combine what used to be Phases II and III and entails the distribution of the remaining Martin Court Apartments, Patterson Court housing, singles, and all other rooms. One additional change is the option of requesting off-campus permission if one’s first choice does not pan out. This eliminates the necessity of filling out yet another form if plan A does not work. Lottery Night is tentatively scheduled for Mar. 25; the backup date is Apr. 1.

The second new development by RLO is the possible introduction of theme housing to the Davidson campus. Students sharing a common interest in a subject with an academic emphasis would have the opportunity to form a cluster of eight to 20 students so that they could explore this theme outside the classroom in a concentrated area. The students participating in a particular theme cluster would be required to take part in at least two theme-related programs each month, organized by the “program chair,” who would meet at least once a month with Jordan and work with the hall’s RA to connect the cluster to the rest of the hall. A faculty member would also act as an academic advisor to the group. The application to form such a cluster would be extensive: students would list possible programs, set goals, and give explanations of how the theme living would benefit the larger hall and Davidson as a whole. RLO hopes that by requiring such a thorough application and dedication to programming, students will not take advantage of theme housing simply to monopolize a hall with their friends. Technical details are still being discussed, but theme housing is definitely feasible on the campus, provided there is sufficient student interest. Some details have already been determined. For instance, the placing of theme clusters would occur before the actual housing lottery begins. RLO would find a place for each cluster based on its size and personal needs. The doors in the center sections of Belk, Knox, Irwin, and Akers provide a partition which would allow for co-ed clustering. Lingle House would also be a possible site for such housing. Once the destination is determined, the cluster would be allowed to make its own room assignments within that area. However, once a cluster has committed itself to the area, no members of the group may switch out. Theme housing would be open to all upperclassmen but would primarily be aimed at sophomores, since many juniors go abroad, and because seniors generally prefer living in the Martin Court Apartments, where theme clustering would not take place. Similar programs have already been established and have experienced considerable success at other schools in the region, including Wake Forest, Duke University, and Elon College. Publicity outlining the program in further detail is forthcoming and an information session will be held Nov. 24 to answer questions for those interested in considering this alternative.

The final topic discussed at the meeting was the networking of the dorms, which Holmes states is moving along at “break-neck speed.” With the exception of the Martin Court Apartments, all residential areas currently have the potential to “connect,” despite some tedious tasks which still need to occur. The difficulty in wiring the senior apartments stems from the inadequacy of “empty space” (alcoves and tiny nooks and crannies, such as are found in Belk) within the apartments to contain necessary equipment. Small buildings will have to be constructed next to each apartment, a project which is currently underway. In addition, workers must enter student rooms to carry out required tasks such as core drilling between the floors. Workers will not be permitted to go into rooms during Thanksgiving Break or during Reading Day or exams, but they will work on Flowe, Ryburn, and MCF during winter break. The workers will be escorted by members of the college community.

Park discusses future of library, worries about fate of CD-ROMs

Jeff Goldman of the Davidsonian recently sat down with Leland Park, Director of the E.H. Little Library, to discuss how the library currently serves the students, and will serve the students in the future.

Davidsonian: Do you think that circulation has decreased?

Leland Park: No, it has not dropped; in fact, it has even gone up. It is very hard to predict exactly. It’s split between regular circulation and reserve circulation - those two vary from year to year, but the total amount of things checked out has gone up, which is an interesting experience because we'd wondered with so many things available electronically whether that would cause it to go down. The number of interlibrary loans has gone up dramatically, and that in part is due to two things: one is individual student research (which is a lot more sophisticated these days), and the other is the awareness of other resources that are available, because you are able to get into other people’s catalogues over the Internet.

D: Are you planning to replace microfiche with CD-ROMs, as some businesses have?

P: Well, it’s sort of a combination of things on that. Nearly all of the government documents we get these days come out on CD-ROM, where it used to be nothing but hardback. Interestingly enough, one of the things you worry about is permanency - you know paper is permanent, and you know microfiche and microfilm are. We are not convinced yet, as far as...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

As far as the long-run goes, CD-ROMs are going to be the final thing. You worry about having that available, and then in a few years not having the machinery to read that. So we have invested pretty heavily in CD-ROMs; in fact, this summer, in working with Dr. Wertheimer in the History Department, we replaced the legal set that we had upstairs with CD-ROMs, which is wonderful. I mean, it saved us about 15 or 20 feet of shelving; we replaced it with a series of CD-ROMs. Which made it easier, too, because you can search it in better ways. But we will be doing that as it is appropriate. This year we've added probably over one hundred journals with full text online. That’s really quite amazing. We've also put in a $5,000 printer, so that when you’re using the CHAL terminals, you can print it out, replacing the old dot matrix printer. But by having those journals online, that’s really quite amazing, because you can look up an article, see what you want, click over to it, see if it’s something you want, then copy it. That will increase over the years, as we are offering those things. Again, we want to be cautious, to be sure that things we sign up for are things that are going to last. Project MUSE is something that has all the journals that Johns Hopkins University Press puts out online. Again, that’s an ongoing concern, Johns Hopkins is going to be around, and the Project is going to be around.

D: How long have you worked at Davidson?

P: I finished here in ‘63, then came back in ‘67. So I finished my thirtieth year last summer. I came back as a reference librarian, then later was made assistant director, and then when Dr. Davidson retired in 1975, I became director. So I’ve been director for 22 years.

Marrow drive enjoys high turnout

Project Life from page 1

With fundraising efforts completed in the earlier stages of planning, the Committee had more of an opportunity to focus on publicizing around campus and educating the student body. The Committee was supported by various individuals throughout the campus, including individual hall representatives in freshman dormitories. “When I heard the Red Cross representative speak at the initial freshmen meeting about how this program could help to save lives,” said freshman Jennifer Lewis, a representative from Cannon dorm, “I knew it was something I really wanted to get involved in.” Representatives helped in various ways, selling T-shirts, giving educational seminars, posting flyers, and assisting at the drive itself. “It was great to see the people you talked to on the halls come in and know that you helped them realize this opportunity to help someone else,” Lewis said.

The annual Project Life bone marrow drive was begun on Davidson’s campus in 1989 by a student named David Lindsey, who before his freshman year was diagnosed with leukemia. After undergoing treatment and receiving bone marrow from his brother, Lindsey recognized and ministered to the need for additional donors in the national registry. With the help of former service director Katherine Turner, the Project Life Bone Marrow Committee was formed. Since then, over 2,000 people have been added to the National Donor Registry, with seven people donating bone marrow to needy recipients. The drive itself is subsidized each year through the Red Cross, which also provides medical staff from the surrounding area for typing. Since the Committee was formed, the Red Cross has continued to hail Davidson’s program as one of the best student-run drives in the country, not only in the areas of fundraising and organization, but in its efforts to educate the campus on the implications of being a donor. All donors are required at the drive site to read and sign a “Consent for Participation” form, outlining the purpose, requirements, benefits, safety, and future implications of being a donor. The Project Life committee would like to say a special thanks to all those who were involved in this year’s drive, and looks forward to continued success in the coming years.

Alcohol from page 1

agrees. “I thought they were doing an excellent job,” said Barber, who attended Air Band during his rounds. Boyle says he knows of no coming sanctions against the house. Barber said that a citation was given because the hospital became involved, but no official charges have been brought against Phi Delt, although “we're looking into the situation.” Dean of Students and Vice President for Student Life Tom Shandley was careful to emphasize that “the incidents (of two weekends ago) were not alcohol poisoning,” though “certainly the students both had way, way, way too much to drink and it was the appropriate thing to get them to the hospital.” “Alcohol poisoning is a very, very serious issue,” said Shandley. “There is a distinction between that and excessive consumption, where students don’t know what to do and they ask for help, which they should.”

Ringle explains dangers of alcohol poisoning

According to Shandley, this is the fourth incident of “excessive consumption” requiring medical attention, “which is four too many.” Shandley remembers four or five similar occurrences last year. “It’s certainly on the minds of an awful lot of people these days,” he said. Alcohol poisoning is “one of the scariest things for us,” said Georgia Ringle, Health Educator. Ringle explained that when students are taken to the hospital for excessive alcohol consumption, they are subsequently referred to the Counseling Center for assessment and education on the dangers of drinking. Ringle said that alcohol poisoning occurs in a “pretty consistent pattern,” and usually results from drinking shots of liquor, because wine and beer induce vomiting before dangerous levels of alcohol can accumulate in the blood, whereas liquor can cause poisoning before vomiting. Alcohol poisoning is often a result of drinking games or pre-party preparations, according to Ringle. “It’s not Court-related,” said Ringle, referring to Patterson Court. “I think the Court gets a bad rap.” “What I think we’re seeing at this school is people not knowing their limits,” continued Ringle. Those who don’t know their tolerance comprise most of the victims of poisoning, she said. An average person is at risk for alcohol poisoning at blood alcohol levels of .15 to .3, and the possibility of death becomes imminent from BALs of .25 to .4. “It depends on the individual,” said Ringle, who cites factors affecting tolerance as metabolism rates, drug use, other trauma, and histories of depression. Symptoms of alcohol poisoning include a person’s inability to be roused from unconsciousness, labored breathing, and slowing vital signs. Anyone exhibiting these characteristics must receive medical attention as soon as possible.

Layout. Come ON, YOU KNOW YOU WANT TO.