2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

International opportunities at Davidson
Dean Rusk and Career Services sponsor four-week seminar
By Liz NEIHEISEL: Staff Writer

The Dean Rusk Program, in collaboration with the Davidson Career Services Office, is currently sponsoring a four-week seminar series on
international career and service opportunities. The series, now two weeks underway, focuses on preparation for and information on career opportunities
in international fields in both the United States and abroad.

The initial lecture on Oct. 9 drew 42 students to the Union Home Room, where Ambassador Ken Brown of the
Dean Rusk program spoke on openings in service and other government agencies. Last week’s lecture on Oct. 16 welcomed Dr.
Anne DeLattre of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and Laura Jones of the Refuge Office of Charlotte
to speak on their experiences with economic development in non-governmental organizations (NGOs).

Future seminars will introduce Attorney Michael Almond of the Charlotte law firm Parker, Poe, Adams, and Bernstein to lecture on
International Law, and newly inaugurated College president Bobby Vagt to speak on International Business.

The International Careers Services series is the joint creation of Assistant Director of Dean Rusk Eleanor Hatcher and Assistant Director
of Career Services Tony Butchello. “We wanted to collaborate to bring a program to those students who may be considering
an international career,” Butchello said in a recent interview.

Hatcher and Butchello began planning the program last semester in February after attending an international conference at UNC Charlotte. The
program is directed towards those students who have interest in one of four main career clusters: foreign service, international development
(in non-governmental agencies), international law, and international business. The series is an effort to prepare students earlier for a career
on the international scene.

Rough statistics from the Career Services and Study Abroad offices suggest that approximately 10 percent of recent classes spend the
first year following graduation overseas, while over 50 percent of each class spent at least one semester studying abroad during
the Davidson career. “In my day-to-day dealings with students, I find a good proportion that want to work or do
service abroad,” Butchello said. “The International Career Service series is a proactive response to this growing group of students.”

International career interest at Davidson generally focuses on service work and development, teaching, business, or foreign policy. Thursday night’s speakers,
drawing from vastly different personal and professional experiences, achieved all the series’ goals by providing information and advice on securing
a future in the international world.

DeLattre, who has spent nearly 50 years with international agencies, has been involved with both professional and political institutions, concentrating
her efforts in the field of third-world economic development. While DeLattre identified education, including undergraduate work in Economics and a
more specialized Ph.D., as the most vital tool of preparation, Jones focused on the hands-on approach. Both speakers gave due
merit to working overseas in the field and the need for a multilingual background. The experiences of both, and the
connections made abroad, are often key in securing employment and successive promotion.

DeLattre cited networking as the most common entryway to this field of work, whereas Jones, who began her career at
the French embassy in Washington, D.C., pointed to local non-profit organizations as an entry-level opportunity. However, DeLattre and Jones both
noted the importance of a personal commitment and desire to serve when working in such a field. While many jobs
are geared towards administration and policy-making, most non-governmental agencies exist to serve the needs of other people. “Sometimes the weight
of international bureaucracy grows heavy, and the point (of your work) is lost in the red tape,” DeLattre said.

The International Career Services Series meets the last two Thursdays of October at 7:00 p.m. in the Union Home Room.

Davidson College Police Blotter

Dwayne Hendricks spotted in the area
After a stellar performance in early September in which he assaulted a librarian, a Davidson student, and college faculty, local
psychopath Dwayne Hendricks is back. Hendricks recently managed to steal two cartons of milk from a Huntersville grocery store, then
proceeded to wander out into the parking lot, open both cartons, and pour them simultaneously onto the asphalt while doing
a little jig. He also wandered onto campus last week at 2 a.m., raving as usual. “This guy has something
clinical,” Sergeant David Harding of Campus Police said. “If any student sees Hendricks at any time, they should call 9-911
immediately.”

Wallet stolen from Belk dorm
A wallet was reported missing by a freshman in Belk Sept. 25. The freshman apparently left his wallet, containing $35
in cash, in an inviting place on a table near the door of his room sometime early in the week.

Bikes stolen from campus
A Trek 800 mountain bike was stolen from bike racks in front of Little. The bike was valued at $700.
Also stolen was a Roadmaster Mountain Climber, reportedly worth $90, which was left unlocked on the Union Patio Sept. 19.

Sentelle fire alarm raises questions
Students complain about newly-installed dorm row gates
By Mary-ELISE BRUMFIELD Staff Writer

Imagine: it’s after 2:00 a.m. on a Wednesday night — or Thursday morning — you're standing in the middle of
your dorm room, gazing bleary-eyed at your bed. You’ve just spent five straight hours struggling with a set of math
problems for your Calculus class and laboring over Political Science. And now it’s definitely time to go to sleep. You're
so tired you can just hear your bed calling to you. SoYou snuggle under the covers and close your eyes.
And just as you are starting to drift off into dreams, the fire alarm goes off. That is exactly what
happened in Sentelle three weeks ago when the fire alarm was accidentally set off. Called a “trigger alarm” because it
was accidental, it went off in Sentelle a little after 2:30 a.m. on Sept. 25. Sentelle residents were less than
pleased with the late hour of the alarm. As junior Shannon Howland put it, “2:30 in the morning is not
cool.” The town of Davidson’s fire engines arrived on the scene soon after the alarm sounded. But instead of taking
the little road by dorm row, they drove across the lawn in front of Chambers to reach Sentelle. Why? Josh
Glazer, a junior and volunteer fireman, explained that the fire engines always drive over the grass to get to the
buildings on dorm row. The fire engines could easily break through the gates if they had to, he said, but
it is too difficult for the big trucks to maneuver in the narrow confines of dorm row. “It's better, faster,
safer, and easier” for the engines to drive across the grass, he said. This route gives the firemen better visibility
and gets them closer to the fire hydrant. Glazer added that the trucks don’t hurt the walkways leading to the
dorms from Chambers. Sergeant David Harding from Campus Police confirmed that he was not aware of any problem with the
gates and said that the fire trucks were too wide to drive comfortably down dorm row. When asked about the
original purpose of the gates at both ends of dorm row, Glazer said that they were built primarily to stop
the flow of traffic along the narrow road. Traffic on dorm row, he said, has been a safety hazard in
the past. The gates were installed early in the school year to keep all vehicles out of dorm row except
police cars, ambulances, and physical plant trucks. But, as an anonymous source said, “I really don’t see the point (of
the gates) because you can easily hop the gates and drive up the curb.” Concerning the Sentelle fire alarm itself,
Glazer confirmed that it was a fire alarm and not a drill. He said that all of the fire drills
that have been scheduled in the past month have taken place between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. Any other time
the alarm has gone off, it has been a trigger alarm, like the one in Sentelle. “The alarm in Sentelle
goes off more than any other alarm in the dorms up the hill,” he said. “It needs work and should
be looked at.” But Glazer was emphatic that no one should take any of the fire alarms lightly. “I want
to tell all students to treat fire alarms as real,” he added, “because there could be a real fire.”

Wicker ponders politics in the near future
By Naresh Nagella
Associate Editor

The James Batten Visiting Professor in Public Policy, Thomas Wicker, gave a lecture entitled “2000 and Beyond: Politics and All
That” Oct. 9th in Chambers Gallery. Wicker, a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and former New York Times columnist, centered the speech
on what he believed could happen on the national political scene in the years ahead. Initially, however, he warned the
audience about the problems of such prognostication, stating his efforts were “mainly speculation” and that he has been wrong before.
Also, Wicker said, “The only thing you never really know is who actually wins.”

“We should see lots of candidates for the year 2000 because there is no incumbent,” Wicker said regarding the 2000
presidential race. “And, in our primary system, almost anybody can run, television makes obscure persons be known quickly, and the
national (party) conventions are not contested.” On the Republican side, Wicker predicted Jack Kemp, Dan Quayle, George Bush, Jr., William
Weld, Fred Thompson, Lamar Alexander, and Steve Forbes would be some of the candidates to run. Wicker did not discount
the moderates in this race, stating that “wing (of the Republican party) can still be alive.” On the Democratic side,
Wicker sees Al Gore, Richard Gephardt, Bob Kerrey, John Kerry, and Bill Bradley as candidates. He sees the Democrats’ biggest
problem as being able to attract a television-friendly candidate. He believes many of these front-runners will have difficulty in giving
speeches and clearly connecting with the broader American public. Wicker sees the biggest issues during the election as being, “taxes,
the deficit, crime and punishment, and the environment.”

Overall, Wicker hopes to see change in our political system. “We just let things go as they are,” he said.
“We need to fix our (problems) now before they get worse later.” Specifically, he cited his fears that the social
security program would not be available for future generations of retired workers. Wicker also said the excessive price of campaigns
might distract our politicians from putting all their energy into doing their jobs. He mentioned how senators had to spend
three nights a week raising money for themselves and other nights campaigning for their party.

The Batten Professorship honors the memory of alumnus Jim Batten, Class of 1957, former executive editor of the Charlotte Observer
and president, chairman, and CEO of Knight-Ridder Inc. Wicker will give one more public lecture tied to the professorship this
semester. College Relations

Wicker emphasizes a point during a recent seminar.
