SPORTS 16 MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

Kruse’s Cubby

Women on a Mission

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

I was watching the women’s national championship game on Easter night and a hallmate — one of the few who
didn’t skedaddle for Break — walked in.

“Girl’s basketball?” he said. “I bet that’s pretty exciting...”

His words were nowhere near the vicinity of sincere.

Well, women’s basketball, and yes, pretty exciting. Very, actually.

Why is it so hard for people to accept women’s basketball as a sport in its own right — and
a damn good one, at that — and not an undercard to the men’s game? Why would so many sports
fans rather watch paint dry than women play basketball?

I would argue ignorance. So consider this a lesson — a lesson primarily pointed at the guy who has either
never been to a women’s basketball game or only goes to gawk like he would — and does — at
a Playboy centerfold.

The first step is to make ourselves small - really small - and crawl inside the mind of this so-called
sports fan. Let’s listen carefully, and then respond.

Women can’t dunk.

First of all, untrue. Some can. And not that beast with the unfortunate gland problem in the Guinness Book of
World Records. (Don’t pretend you haven’t paged through it looking for freaks.) Second of all, the kind of fan who
goes to a basketball game to see dunks, and dunks only, is the kind of fan who has trouble understanding
anything else. Gravity-defying, rim-rocking throwdowns are fun, but hardly essential to an exciting brand of hoops.

Women can’t shoot.

I have one question. Did you watch both Final Fours this year? No? Well, I did. Let’s play the compare-and-contrast
game.

The high-flying men were in Indianapolis, where:
- The NCAA crowned Arizona its champion after the Wildcats shot 33% in their semifinal win over Carolina and missed
over 60% of their attempts over the course of the weekend.
- The Tar Heels, not counting dunks, shot 25% Saturday night. The players blamed windy conditions in the RCA Dome
for their pathetic marksmanship.

Now for the female equivalent in Cincinnati, where:
- National champion Tennessee made nearly 60% of its shots in the title game.
- Old Dominion’s Aubrey Eblin nailed a half-court heave at the halftime buzzer.
- Stanford’s Kate Starbird, the national player of the year, couldn’t miss in the first half, scoring 21 points in
the Cardinal’s semifinal loss to ODU.

Still think women can’t shoot?

Fine, they can shoot, but the women’s game is still boring.

As exciting as the men’s final was, the Stanford-Old Dominion semifinal was better. The Lady Monarchs erased a 15-point second-half
deficit to force overtime, where they eventually won 83-82.

See Women on page 17

Men’s tennis beats Furman for first time since 1973

By DALTON McLEAN
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team edged Furman 4-3 Saturday at Covington Courts, swaying the balance of power in the Southern Conference.
The win marks the program’s first win over Furman (13-10, 3-1 SC) in a generation, and put the Wildcats (10-8,
4-0) in a position to win their first regular-season conference title since 1973.

After defeating the Paladins and a strong East Tenn. St. team this week, only The Citadel, Appalachian St., and VMI
stand in the way of an undefeated season for Davidson.

In doubles action against Furman, Davidson won two of three matches to clinch the doubles point. Winning teams were second-seeded
duo Jon Pastel and Scott Briggs and the third-seeded team of Tyler Epp and Jeff Tonidandel.

Going into the singles with a 1-0 lead, Davidson needed at least three out of the six matches to assure
victory. Furman fought hard,

See Men on page 19

Wildcats lower thunder on Herd

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Easter Break was no vacation for the baseball team, which hosted Marshall for a three-game holiday set March 29-30 at
Wildcat Park. But the Wildcats (13-20, 6-9 SC) made their campus stay worthwhile, capturing their first sweep in two years.

“Your ideal is two out of three in a three-game set, so the two (on Saturday) were good,” said coach
Dick Cooke. “And emotionally, you come into the Sunday game, and all of a sudden this becomes real big.”

Sophomore Marshall Tyler, a seldom-used outfielder coming into the three-game set, playedthe role of unlikely hero both days. Tyler’s bottom-of-the-ninth
single in Saturday’s first contest — amazingly, his first hit of the season — drove in Gus Quattlebaum for the
winning run. Tyler treated fans to an encore in Sunday’s matinee, launching a two-run homer to left-center in the eighth,
giving the Wildcats what turned out to be a necessary cushion in their 5-4 win. A three-run fourth inning and
See Sweep on page 18

Baseball on tear, takes five of seven
Bill Giduz

Hurler Ricky Paugh fires a pitch during the Wildcats’ dismantling of Wofford Thursday afternoon at Wildcat Park. After falling behind
early, the Wildcats rebounded behind thunderous hitting. Team splits non-conference match-ups

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Home, they say, is where the heart is. But for the baseball team — so far this season, home has
been where the wins are. The Wildcats are a solid 14-11 at home this year, but have claimed only one
road victory in a dozen tries.

The pattern continued in a pair of non-league outings this week, as Davidson fell Tuesday at UNC Charlotte and crushed
Wofford Thursday at Wildcat Park. Having already beaten the 49ers once this spring, a 12-9 victory here on March 18,
the Wildcats missed a See Split on page 19

Wofford 6

Rain shortens series with VMI
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

In today’s hitter-happy brand of college baseball, pitching has become somewhat of a lost art. But in Davidson’s doubleheader against
VMI Saturday at Wildcat Park, pitching played a key role in both contests. Veteran Mordecai Stolk worked into the eighth
inning in the opener, giving up just four hits and two runs, neither of which were earned, sparking Davidson to
a 5-4 win. And Keydet ace Jay Adams, a junior who was drafted out of high school, went the full
seven innings in the nightcap, allowing only four hits and striking out 10 in VMI’s 8-4 victory.

“Certainly, we wanted to win two, but a split is OK,” explained coach Dick Cooke. “They pitched well both games
and Mordecai pitched very well in the first game.” Sunday’s game was rained out, leaving the Wildcats at 15-22, 7-10
in the conference. After blowing a 4-2 lead in the top of the ninth in the first game, Davidson used
old-fashioned fundamentals to manufacture their fifth win in six outings. Rookie second baseman Drew Williams, known more for his slick
defense than a potent bat, came through with a single in the bottom of the last and advanced to second
on a wild pitch. Williams advanced to third on a Brian Joyce sacrifice bunt, and then scored when Marshall See
Rain on page 18

Consistent play pays dividends for sizzling women’s lax
By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

Winning five of their last six games, the women’s lacrosse team continued their impressive play of late in Saturday’s doubleheader
at Richardson Field. In the noon opener, the Wildcats battled Division III power Roanoke before finally succumbing, 10-9, but they
rebounded at 4 p.m. that afternoon, pasting Longwood, 22-13.

“We played well today, and we did some nice things,” said coach Mary Schwartz. “In the first game, we just
missed opportunities. We got every opportunity to score goals. One of the things about Roanoke is that they have been
in the Division III Final Four a few times, and they know how to win games. We turned the ball
over a couple times when we shouldn’t have turned it over. But I was happy with both games.”

In the see-saw contest against Roanoke, the Wildcats jumped out to a 3-1 lead in the first ten minutes, but
Roanoke closed out the half with four straight goals for a 5-3 cushion at intermission. Davidson came out strong again
in the second frame, outscoring Roanoke 4-1 in the first 15 minutes for a 7-6 advantage. But Roanoke responded to
the Wildcat run, pulling out the win.

“Roanoke they’re Division III but they’re on top in Division III. They win all of their games,” co-captain Sarah Hogan
said. “They’re used to always winning, and they know what to do when they’re up by a goal or two.
But, we’re just starting to learn how to do that this year.”

The game did mark a significant improvement over last year’s contest between the two squads, when the Wildcats fell 19-7.
See Hot streak on page 17
