College Relations

The other shoe has finally dropped. It’s official. Dr. William R. Ferris, Jr., a 1964 Davidson graduate, is the new chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Since the announcement in late July that Ferris was one of two finalists for the NEH position, his fans at Davidson and throughout the world have eagerly followed the story's development. In late August, President Clinton confirmed that Ferris was his choice for the nomination, setting in motion the preliminary background checks that start the confirmation process.

The founder and director of the Center for the Study of Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi, Ferris has become internationally renowned as a folklorist, anthropologist, author, and blues musician. Bill Ferris grew up on a farm near Vicksburg, Miss., mesmerized by stories told by his grandfather and the cotton pickers, banjo players, and sharecroppers in his rural setting. While at Davidson, he majored in English Literature and was honored with the Thomas Wolfe Creative Writing Award. After graduation, he received an M.A. in English Literature at Northwestern on a Rotary Foundation Fellowship. While on a one-year fellowship at Trinity College in Ireland, however, he decided to go back to his first love and switched his focus to folklore at the University of Pennsylvania, where he received his M.A. and Ph.D.

No one has ever accused Ferris of being stuffy. Nor do many academics consider his scholarly pursuits overly cerebral. None, however, can deny the credibility of his remarkable 27-page vita, with his advanced degrees in English Literature and Folklore, seven fellowships, 67 major grants, and teaching positions at Yale, Mississippi, and Stanford. He has been recognized with 14 prestigious awards, including knighthood in l’Ordre des Arts et Lettres from the French government, the Charles Frankel Prize in the Humanities, an honorary doctorate from Rhodes College, and Rolling Stone magazine’s “Top Ten American Professors” list.

Just as the massive Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, published in 1989 by Ferris and Charles Wilson, has been termed a democratic merging of highbrow and lowbrow topics, so too is Ferris. While his endless list of appearances includes lectures at the most prestigious institutions throughout the United States and abroad, he also makes regular appearances at local churches, garden clubs, high schools, and Rotary Clubs. He has wined and dined with the rich and famous across the globe, hosted scholarly conferences to study the literary giants of this century, and clapped and danced in smoky juke joints to Bo Diddley’s jackhammer rock.

A preserver of legends and folklore of all kinds, he himself is a legend at Ole Miss, and among the many highbrow and lowbrow audiences privileged to have made his acquaintance. In 1993, Ferris married Marcie Cohen, a product of the South born in Blytheville, Ark. The two first met when she was an intern at the Center for Southern Folklore in Memphis, Tenn. Educated at Brown and William and Mary, she directed the Museum of Southern Jewish Experience in Utica, Miss., and now is a partner in an Oxford antique store.

While Ferris is no doubt an unconventional scholar and professor, his true qualifiers for the NEH position are undisputed talents as an administrator, fundraiser, and consensus builder. Recent moves in Congress to slash arts and humanities funding will require a skilled healer to find common ground from which to inspire bipartisan support. Ferris believes the time is ripe to gain back that support. Congress has received a mandate from the American people to continue to fund projects in the arts and humanities. The endowment critics have leveled charges of inequitable distribution of funding to elitists who are out of touch with the American people. Ferris sees the new millennium as “a perfect opportunity for Americans to look at their own cultural identity at the grassroots level,” he said. “The NEH, working through state-based partnerships, could help institutions across the country develop dynamic and imaginative agendas in the humanities.”

Ferris has a deep respect and appreciation for the endowment and is excited about the opportunity to promote its merits. “The NEH supports education and scholarship at every level in our nation, which is clearly a bipartisan issue,” he said. “As education becomes more specialized, we must make deliberate efforts to enable both public and private institutions to provide programs in the arts and humanities; seeds must be planted in our local communities that will foster creative vision in our future leaders.”

Ferris points out that the most successful people in the corporate world are those broadly educated in the liberal arts, who bring imagination and creativity to their decisions. “Top CEOs like Robert Pittman, head of America Online, and Ervin Duggan, Davidson Class of ‘61, who heads public television, have renaissance minds that often go against the grain in discovering new perspectives,” Ferris said. “Some critics feel we can’t afford to keep spending substantial amounts for programs in the arts and humanities. My viewpoint is that we cannot afford to stop supporting these efforts to preserve our identity as a nation or let our children lose touch with their heritage.”

Patterson Court Judicial Board sanctions PiKA, KA

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

Kappa Alpha and Pi Kappa Alpha (KA and PiKA, respectively) are both currently being sanctioned for violating “portions of the Patterson Court or College policies for organizations,” according to Jean Boehmler, Sergeant-at-Arms of the Patterson Court Judicial Board. KA was charged on Oct. 22 with serving minors and over-serving an individual (who was taken to the hospital), which violates both N.C. State law and the Davidson College alcohol policy. They were also charged with failing to register the Oct. 16 party during which these events occurred. The party, said KA president Carlo Reynolds, was a “celebration of the first round of bids” being given out. This is the house’s first offense of the year.

At KA’s hearing on Oct. 29, the Patterson Court Judicial Board agreed to sanction the house. It was decided that KA’s functions must be alcohol-free until Feb. 28, and that after Feb. 28, KA may only have “BYO” functions for the rest of spring semester. The house is prohibited from sponsoring parties on or off campus with alcohol until Feb. 28. KA must also hold educational programs dealing with alcohol, two of which have already taken place, and one of which is planned for next semester before the end of Feb. For the third program, Reynolds said that he plans to have an expert speak on the dangers of excessive alcohol consumption.The house must pay a $100 fee “for appearing before the Judicial Board,” as well. “We definitely were in the wrong,” said Reynolds, who went on to say that the house did try to “ameliorate the situation” by turning themselves in and cooperating with the College. The J Board findings agreed, saying that KA’s “response to the situation should serve as a model for other houses. The sanctions reflect your appropriate move to take (the student) to the hospital, your efforts to be honest about what happened, and your active measures to ameliorate the situation.” Reynolds said that he thought the sanctions KA faces are appropriate, and that ultimately this will be a good experience for the house in terms of reducing liability. “It made us question what we stand for,” said Reynolds. “There are other ways to have fun besides getting drunk.” Reynolds expects the experience to bring the house together, and thinks the sanctions will be good for KA’s pledges, who will begin their memberships in a dry house and hopefully learn to drink in moderation. Reynolds stressed that the hospitalized student “took full responsibility” for the extremely drunken state, and that there was no pressure for the student to consume alcohol at any point. “(Providing minors with alcohol) is a very risky thing to do, as well as an illegal thing to do,” said Reynolds, who feels that KA’s sanctions will act as an “eye-opener for the whole Court.”

PiKA has been charged with violations three times this year, with the outcome of the third case still requiring the approval of Dean of Students Tom Shandley. The case will not be considered public until Shandley approves the J Board’s decision. PiKA was charged on Oct. 31 with its first violation of the year for lacking “IDers at the front door to check for PCC Stickers and Davidson ID” and for “improper Risk Manager behavior” during the Oct. 24 Glam Rock party. The Risk Manager on duty at Glam Rock was not wearing the required red polo shirt. PiKA was also charged with “handing beers over the railing at the stairs to underage drinkers.” The house was found guilty of the first two charges and not guilty of the third after pleading no contest at the Nov. 11 hearing. Though handing beers over the railing is a violation of the College alcohol policy, PiKA was found not guilty of the third charge, said Boehmler, because there was no police officer on duty at the party, which was an “ugly situation.” The house, however, should have taken responsibility for its own function, she continued. PiKA president John Hawk said that it was difficult to control the party in the police officer’s absence because people wouldn’t listen without a widely accepted authority figure present. The sanctions PiKA was given are a $150 fine and a mandatory “thirty-minute review session of the Davidson College alcohol policy” with the members of the house to discuss the “what ifs” of a party situation in terms of risk management.” Hawk said that a risk management workshop was planned for Dec. 7 to “make sure glitches are ironed out.”

PiKA was charged again on Nov. 18, this time for failing to register a Nov. 12 party and for “permitting persons less than 21 years of age to possess alcoholic beverages” through an absence of Risk Managers. The Patterson Court J Board heard PiKA’s second case at the same Nov. 11 hearing where the first case against the house was heard. The Board agreed to fine PiKA $100 and to put the house on probation for 14 days, beginning Nov. 24 and not including Thanksgiving Break. PiKA must pay a $200 fee, as well, for appearing before the J Board. “I think we were treated fairly,” said Hawk. “We know that (the violations) won’t happen again.” Hawk expects the sanctions to “raise general awareness around campus that we need to straighten up and get our acts together,” but does not expect the sanctions to affect PiKA’s pledge class.

Phi Delta Theta (Phi Delt) also has a Patterson Court Judicial Board case pending. Dean of Students Tom Shandley declined to comment on the cases; Patterson Court Advisor Jim Barber was unavailable for comment.

By Mary-Elise Brumfield
Staff Writer

Are you having trouble getting a start on that psychology paper? Do you need help putting the final touches on your senior English thesis? Then the Davidson College Writing Center can help you. The Center, which is located in the basement of North Chambers near the Psychology department, is available to students Sunday-Thursday from 2-4 p.m. and 8-11 p.m. According to David Santschi, a senior history major who works at the Center as a tutor, the purpose of the Writing Center is to help students with papers in all subjects and in all stages of development, from English 101 to Seminar papers and theses. The Writing Center is normally headed by English professor Shireen Carroll, who is on leave for the year. Visiting English professor Tim Waples is presently substituting. A total of six tutors work at the Center, including Santschi. They are all seniors, said Santschi, and most of them major in subjects other than English. Other tutors at the Center are psychology major Susannah Herndon, biology majors Erin Mooney and Rhonda Rowell, English major Lorraine Eaddie, and history major Jackie Rasulo. The tutors are paid, continued Santschi, except for Herndon, who is working at the Writing Center as part of an independent study. Tutoring at the Center, however, is not a work-study job, and therefore, funding does not come from the Office of Financial Aid, but rather from the English department. The average number of students who utilize the Center every week is between 25 and 30, according to Santschi. The past few weeks have been much busier, however, with many students working on end-of-the-semester papers. Overall, “business has picked up 50 percent this semester,” according to Santschi.

Davidson will offer a class in sign language next semester. The class will be taught by a representative from the North Carolina School for the Deaf. The class is open to students, faculty, and members of the Davidson community. The course’s participants will learn the art of sign language for the first five weeks. Some will go on to sign for ten weeks at The North Carolina School for the Deaf. The classes will begin January 14 and end May 11. This non-credit class, open to approximately 30 students, will be held from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. in Chambers 226. There is a $15 admission fee.

Jenny Hapcoop