THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS. MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

Campus security committee in front of the doors.
Will Nolen

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

As students and faculty have begun to file in and out of Chambers with the start of a new semester,
there is something a little bit different in the way they have been doing so—the doors through which they walk.
These new doors will be equipped with CAT card access locks like those used on the doors to most dormitory
buildings. All of the doors and CAT card access locks will be installed and activated.

Cable presents results of study at SGA meeting Tuesday

From page 1

...academically qualified students with responsible access to Davidson, allowing them the choice to enroll at Davidson despite our high cost,”
according to the report. Under the current system, when an application is reviewed it is given a rating on a
scale of 1-10 on academics. This number is based on academic rigor in high school, essays, references, and some type
of assessment of how well the student did academically in high school. A student is then awarded financial aid based
on their amount of demonstrated need. A high academic student with less need will receive a Basic Package. High academics,
high need will receive Basic Package +, and low academics, low need and low academics, high need will both get
Basic Package. Some admitted students do not receive 100% of demonstrated need and have “gaps” in their financial aid package
of $1000-$2500. This technique is called leveraging or strategic use of aid and is recommended to continue in the future.
International, African American, Hispanic, and Native American students are exempted from this system and receive 100% of need.

Welcome back to those who were abroad last semester. Only six more weeks until Spring break. Start 1997 off with
a bang. Write for news. Call Ann — 2148

Although the financial aid cap will continue under the proposals, a net revenue concept will be used to ensure cost
containment in financial aid. Tuition, fees, room and board costs minus unrestricted Davidson awards equal the net revenue for Davidson.
The financial aid office awarded $962,386 for the class of 2000, creating a net revenue of $12,381,681 from 440 students.
In comparison, the class of 1998 with 447 students was given $1,249,203 in aid and created $10,235,310 in revenue. Through
the net revenue concept, more money was raised with only slightly more financial aid.

“We think in this net revenue concept, we’ve discovered a way to have enough money for financial aid without raising
the ‘sticker price’ of Davidson too much every year,” said Cable. The report also encourages the development of a financial
aid reserve account as an “endowment for financial aid,” said Associate Dean Gordon Peck. “For three consecutive years portions of
underspent money have not been set aside for future use. If our proposal would have been in effect, that money
could have been used to raise the amount of financial aid available over time.”

While a commitment to need-blind admission will continue, the planning team is concerned with the socio-economic diversity of students at
Davidson. In 1995-96, the number of financial aid applicants with family incomes of $80,000 and up rose dramatically compared to
1991-92. The number of applicants from families making $60,000 or less declined. “Our fear is that people in lower income
brackets are scared by our price tag and are frightened away,” said Peck. Cable agreed. “Unless we can do something
different than the financial aid cap, then the student body cannot look much different,” she said.

Once the faculty reviews the new report, it will go to the Trustee Committee on Admission and Financial Aid and
then to the Board of Trustees in April. “Financial aid is not an expense; it is fundamentally an investment in
the quality of the student body and the College,” said Cable. By blending need and merit-based aid...and through strategies like
the net revenue concept and leveraging, Cable hopes to invest wisely.

PASTA COMPANY
CARRY OUT DELIVERY DINE-IN
896-8333

* Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages available. Featuring the best import and domestic beers and a full line of wines including
Chardonnay, Cabernet, and Merlot.
* We deliver full meals including all alcoholic beverages.
* FREE delivery. Limited delivery area. $10 Minimum Delivery
* Major Credit Cards Accepted.

HOURS:
11:30-9 Mon. - Thur.
11:30-10 Fri. - Sat.
Closed Sunday

I-77, Exit 28, Norman Crossing Shopping Center

10% off any pasta combo with student I.D. thru 3/31/97.

Plans to equip Chambers with these new doors have been in the works for the last 3-5 years. According to
Phillip Cashion, Associate Director of Operations and Maintenance, the total cost of the doors, the locks, and installation was roughly
$60,000. The hours the locks will be active, pending further review by the physical plant and some administrators, will be
6:00 pm to 7:00 am. These measures have been taken as a step to ensure the safety of students who
use Chambers as a place to study in the late hours of the night.

Although the doors will serve their purpose well during the night, several students have mentioned the difficulty for traffic to
circulate through the doors during the day. Senior John Hollan said, “I’m not a big fan of the doors, but
it’s something you get over, so long as they can unlock both doors.” Freshman Debbi Berry agreed. “If they only
allowed more than one person to walk through at a time, they would operate as well as they look.”

CAMPUS CRIME
New Chambers doors increase late night security

Larceny of bicycle: Visual Arts Center
Unknown person(s) removed victim’s unsecured bicycle. Victim stated that between 1900 and 2340 hours, some unknown person(s) removed his bicycle
from the lobby of the Visual Arts Center. The bicycle is a BMX “Outback” mountain bike, seven-speed, black in color.
It has a red water bottle holder, red bicycle lock, and red lettering on the side reading “Outback.” Estimated value
of the bicycle is $150. The serial number is unknown.

Larceny: Ryburn Apartment Building
Unknown person(s) entered student’s apartment with permission. A Davidson student residing in Ryburn stated that between 2100 and 2130 hours,
she was approached by a young male at her residence wanting to use the telephone. Although she did not recognize
him, she agreed to let him in. At this point, he told two other males standing outside to “come on.”
All three entered the apartment. They wanted to find a Davidson student, so the resident gave them a directory to
find the number. Then she realized the student they were looking for had graduated, so she told them so. The
group left, but returned a short time later wanting to use the telephone again. The resident let them in, when
one was paged. He used the resident’s phone to answer the page. The resident had left $73 in cash inside
her keychain purse next to the telephone. After the group left for the second time, she noticed her money missing.
While trying to determine whether her cellular phone was taken as well, she saw the three males drive by. She
motioned for them to pull over and confronted the group about her money. They stated that they did not have
it.

NAIL BOUTIQUE
The Duchess Nail, Hair & Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men
892-7030

"Best Prices in Town"
Nails
manicures * pedicures
European spa pedicure chair
acrylic * gels * tips * fiberglass

Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan
RedKen Hair Products & more...

Located 1/2 mile south of Davidson College Campus
20700 N. Main St.

Today's birthdays: Dr. Martin Luther King, Federico Fellini, Joan Rivers, and Randy Hartwell.
