**The Davidsonian**

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
RANDY HARTWELL
JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Business Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM

Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
MATTHEW EIRICH
PETER MARTIN

News Editors
ANN CULP
ANNA JUDY

Copy Editors
BETH BACON
KRISTEN BARTCH
PENNY WALL

Opinions Editors
CLAY LENHART
DAVID SANTSCHI

Cartoonist
ERIC PENDERGRASS

Arts & Living Editor
CHRIS MOORE

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
HEATHER LARSON

Advertising Managers
JOHN EARLY
MICHAEL KRUSE

Photo Editor
CHLOE MCNEIL

Circulation Managers
BROOKE CARSWELL
NARESH NAGELLA

Web Page Managers
BRAD CHASE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

LETTERS

RLO, a Hero?

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Leave the kids out of this

What is happening to the residents of 507 Concord Road is wrong. Students are caught in the middle of a
political fight between the Town Council and the College and are getting pinched. Students are being displaced and their lives
interrupted through no fault of their own.

The concerns of the Town Council that the College is establishing a pattern of converting houses into dormitories to handle
an overflow of students are justified. The College needs to consider seriously the possibility that the growth in the student
population necessitates the creation of new, permanent dorm space on the interior of campus. At the same time, however, there
does not seem to be any danger of a precedent forming since 507 Concord will house students for this semester
only.

The Council passed the ordinance legally and is fully within its right to force the College to abide by it.
We just wish the Council’s decision to enforce the ordinance came about before students settled into the house. If an
agreement was reached between the Council and RLO only to house the students for this semester, we wish they would
honor the deal for the sake of the students. On the other hand, if RLO did not approach the Council
with its plan to house the students on Concord, someone in Residence Life dropped the ball big time. Certainly, someone
in RLO connected with the decision must have known about the ordinance and anticipated a conflict. In that case, not
to have anticipated this would be near-sighted.

By all accounts, the students in the house have been good neighbors. None of the residents have been charged with
violating any RLO regulations and none have been reported to the police for any disturbances. Certainly, whatever issues pertain to
these specific students can be hammered out. And besides, the students only have three more months in the house, and
by the time they move even less time than that.

Ultimately, the point is that what is happening to these students is not fair. The town and the College certainly
can arrange a temporary agreement to allow these students to keep their housing for three more months. For the eight
residents of 507 Concord Road we hope they will.

Buford administration of highest caliber

Any praise for Warren Buford’s administration seems superfluous at this point. We can only affirm what is obvious to everyone:
Buford’s presidency was extraordinarily successful. His most important triumph will be the establishment and efforts of the Rides Committee. There
has been a crying need for a shuttle service between the neighboring towns and Davidson for a long time. And
now more than ever we need it. With dissatisfaction with the Court growing, students more and more will want to
explore the growing number of entertainment hot-spots in Charlotte and Cornelius. The establishment and expansion of a Rides program will
enable students to travel safely and conveniently to bars, restaurants and movies. Davidson’s social life can only benefit from the
increased opportunities.

This could not have happened without Buford’s spearheading the initiative. He quickly deprecates to the other members of his committee
and thanks administrators and staff for their generous help when he is credited, but there is no doubt that Buford
led the way. He provided the crucial vision and driving force. Buford brought a genuine enthusiasm, sense of purpose, and
feeling of responsibility to his office. This feeling was contagious within the SGA and, as a good leader does, inspired
others to similar levels of commitment.

Clair Freeman has seen short-shrift for her efforts. Buford and senators describe her work as behind-the-scenes but vital. The President
saw his Vice President as an equal partner and valuable advisor. He credits her with having a great vision for
the implications of policy proposals and decisions. She was an invaluable voice, he says.

Davidson owes a great debt to Warren Buford and Clair Freeman. We thank them both, as they prepare to step
down this Tuesday evening.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect theViews of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year.
Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors,

Last week’s front-page article about the temporary housing provided by RLO at 507 Concord Road has driven me to publicly
express my complaints over campus housing. RLO seemed to be heroic in its effort to house returning students for whom
there were no rooms. But what I want to know is why aren’t there enough rooms? I have been here
for four years, and the student population has not gone up that much! The Manse, Lingle Manor, and now 507
Concord are all very recent additions to student housing. Why is RLO having to incur all of this “substantial loss”
in order to house students in random buildings on the fringe of campus? What I find most disturbing is that
all these recent additions coincide with many recent acquisitions of space by RLO. The college is having to convert houses
into dorms for students when there are plenty of rooms in dorms which are being occupied by the Residence Life
staff. Did they not see the conversion of 12% of Irwin dorm as a “substantial loss?” I shudder to think
what was spent in construction costs. Three rooms, which used to house up to 12 students, are now a spacious
apartment for a member of the Residence Life staff. One half of PAX has also been allocated to RLO for
staff housing. I estimate that three or so rooms could have been made out of that space. So there are
another six students who could have lived on campus. And soon there will no longer be a first floor of
Belk at the rate RLO is absorbing rooms so that each staff member can have a spacious office. RLO should
move out and reinstate the six or seven some-odd rooms, housing 12-14 students. They wouldn’t even have to add a
bathroom there! It is beginning to look like RLO is in the business of housing college staff rather than college
students.

A simple lesson in economics would show RLO the error of its ways. Most students are aware that it is
far cheaper to live off-campus rather than in the dorms. At the double room rate of $2980 per academic year,
with 26 more students being able to live on campus, RLO would add $77,480 to its cash inflows. For that,
I think RLO could afford to pay their staff enough to live in the cheaper, local housing and find other
office space on campus. How about 507 Concord? It doesn’t look like we really need that for student housing after
all.

Noni N. Nielsen, ’97

Black Reality at Davidson.

To the Editors,

Have you ever wondered why a perm/relaxer straightens African American hair, yet curls the hair of Caucasians? Have you ever
wondered about the qualifications of the African Americans that attend Davidson College? Are we here because of affirmative action? Are
we here because of our athletic abilities? Or are we here because of the content of our character and our
outstanding academic performance? Have you ever wondered why there aren't substantial interracial relationships on campus? Have you ever wondered what
African American hair feels like? Have you ever wondered how African Americans braid extensions into their hair? Have you ever
wondered why African American males and females refrain from joining fraternities and eating houses? If you answered “yes” to any
of the above questions, or have other questions about issues concerning African Americans, you should attend the panel discussion on
Black Reality. This discussion will encompass all you ever wanted to know but were too afraid to ask about the
Black Reality at Davidson. This discussion will be held on February 10, at 6:30 p.m., in the 900 Room of
the College Union.

It is very important that students of all ethnic backgrounds attend this gathering. In support of Solidarity Week, there will
be open and honest conversation about race relations on and off campus. The purpose of this panel is to create
harmony and understanding among the Davidson community. In order to gain respect for an individual’s heritage and beliefs, you must
first take a step towards understanding the reason for their beliefs and the roots of their heritage. With this idea
in mind, we encourage all students, faculty, and staff to attend this discussion. Come as a hall activity in an
effort to create more unity among your hall mates. We would like to extend a personal invitation to the members
of third and fourth Rich. If we have any hopes of reaching the true goal of Solidarity Week — unification
— we must be supportive of an effective beginning! Attend the panel discussion on Black Reality at Davidson, you’ll be
glad you came!

Reneé Radford, ’00
Sakeitha Crowder, ’00

Correction: The quotation attributed to Chris Drury in “Student Voices” on January 20 was not his. We regret the error
and any confusion.
