6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ELSEWHERE - MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Washington starts wheeling and dealing

After 12 weeks in Congress and no major legislation passed, Republican leaders have started to make compromises and bring votes
to the floor. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich made the biggest and possibly most divisive move in his party
by stating that it would be a “moral imperative” for representatives to pass a balanced budget before tax cuts. He
said he recognized the need for tax cuts but that political realities (i.e. trying to offset those revenue decreases with
further cuts than already planned) prevented them from doing so.

The loudest opposition is coming from Gingrich’s own party. Rep. David McIntosh (Rep.-Ind.) says, “[The speaker’s] position is just flat
out wrong.... The American family [knows] better how to spend [its] money than does a Washington bureaucrat. I am not
willing to support a budget that has no tax cuts at all.”

The impetus for the change came from a coalition of “Blue Dog” Democrats who have proposed a balanced budget without
any tax cuts. They cite poll after poll stating that the American public wants a balanced budget ahead of tax
cuts. In the 1996 election, Bob Dole’s $500 billion tax cut was rejected by the voters. The newly desired budget
would not include President Bill Clinton’s wish for a broad range of “specified tax cuts” either.

Gingrich defends his position by saying that the government can no longer operate on deficits that add to the debt
other generations will have to repay. The government will already have to borrow $125 million to operate its budget this
year.

In other Congressional activity, the House voted to ban “partial birth” late-term abortions 295-136. Only 8 House Republicans did not
vote for the measure. The President promises a veto, but the House has enough votes to override, since over 70
Democrats supported the measure also. The administration wants language in the bill to allow the procedure when a mother’s health
is at risk. Republicans say that will make the law ineffective. It is estimated that 5,000 of the 1.5 million
abortions performed each year are “partial birth” ones.

The Senate failed to pass a constitutional amendment to let Congress set money limits on contributions and spending in federal
elections and let states decide the same for theirs. Republicans gathered up enough votes to stop the measure. They said
it would trample on the rights of free speech.

Sources: New York Times, USA Today

Clinton, Yeltsin make progress

During one of the most critical meetings to decide the structure and future of European and global security relations, Presidents
Clinton and Boris Yeltsin have made much progress. The summit is taking place in Helsinki, Finland, where the administration wants
to get Russia’s support or blanket approval for its wish to enlarge NATO, the defense organization founded during the beginnings
of the Cold War to stop Soviet expansion beyond the Iron Curtain. Meanwhile, the President must assure Russia that it
will maintain a prominent role in international affairs while pledging support to help solve its economic problems.

So far the two countries have pledged to continue to meet the goals of the Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty that would
decrease the number of warheads in each country to 3,000 - 3,500. The talks have gone well so far, especially
since Russia knows it cannot do much to stop NATO's plans. It appears that Yeltsin will reluctantly show public support
for the plan, nonetheless. Washington hopes to return the favor by increasing aid levels to Russia as capital influxes become
more crucial to expanding Russian economic growth.

Sources: New York Times, USA Today

Conference: “We all need a little help from our friends.”

from page 1

the images it presented espoused hypocritical upper-class mores that often contradicted the realities of lower-class French life. Consequently, what was
the most popular print media at the time was not necessarily an accurate reflection of its era.

Several Davidson professors either presented papers to conference attendees or acted as moderators for discussions. Among them were English professors
Annie Ingram and James Najarian, music professor Donna di Grazia, sociology professor Janet Shannon, German professors Burkhard Henke and Maggie
McCarthy, Japanese professor Marilyn Miller, history professor Barbara Ballard, French professors Kruger and Frank Jacobus, and E. H. Little Library
Director Leland Park. Also, art history professor Larry Ligo led a walking tour of “Davidson College: A Nineteenth Century Campus”
and music professor Cynthia Lawing conducted a selection of pieces by Gounod, Fauré, Hahn, Duparc, and Debussy for Saturday’s closing
banquet.

Mainardi says the advantages of conferences such as the one at Davidson last weekend lie in their small size and
interdisciplinary nature.Century Studies scholars on a walking tour of the Bill Giduz campus Saturday. Dr. Carole Kruger, who served as
location director for the conference, is pictured at right. “You get feedback,” she says, “and that helps you formulate ideas.
[Scholars at similar conferences] can save you years of work,” because they may know more about a particular area of
study than another scholar. “We all need a little help from our friends,” she says. Kruger appreciated that Mainardi had
been able to stay for the rest of the conference after her keynote address, which was indicative of the intimacy
of the meeting. At bigger conferences for such large academic organizations as the Modern Language Association and the College Art
Association, “the huge stars just give their talks and leave. People are pleased [Mainardi’s] been able to stay,” Kruger says.
Mainardi, like other conference attendees, seems to have enjoyed her weekend here. “I think Davidson’s just beautiful,” she says. “I
was walking around yesterday and heard birds chirping, and I thought it was a recording,” says Mainardi, who is from
New York City.

Don’t forget to sign up for ROTC’s April 2 blood drive this week in Chambers and Vail Commons. You’ve got
more than you need anyway. Note to Ben Garrison: Welcome back. Don’t give blood. Make your brother do it.

The Davidsonian Beyond Davidson for the week ending Sunday, March 23

International
U.S. scolds Mexico on drug issue
The United States sharply criticized Mexico for failing to seize more than $160 million in assets deposited in Mexican banks
by a suspected drug trafficker. It was the latest in a series of disputes between the United States and Mexico
over drug enforcement. Mexican officials account that the amount in the account was misunderstood. The dispute comes just two weeks
after President Clinton made a decision to certify Mexico as a reliable ally in the drug war.

Zaire’s dictator in trouble
After 31 years in rule, the Mobutu Sese Seko regime seems to be at an end. Opposition parties in Africa’s
third largest country have rallied behind one man, Laurent Kabila, better known in the country as “Dad.” The rebel forces
that have been fighting for him have now occupied about 30% of the country. The Mobutu army has been losing
battle after battle, and most of the country marches and cheers in support of Kabila. The dictator himself is in
the French Riviera trying to recover from a cancer operation.

National
Cigarette maker admits to tobacco hazards
The fifth largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the nation, the Liggett Group of Durham, NC, said that cigarettes are responsible
for lung cancer, that nicotine is addictive, and that companies market to youths under 18. They pledged to help provide
documents and information to all states and government agencies that were trying to regulate or sue tobacco companies. The statement
will give Liggett legal immunity in many cases, especially since they announced a plan to spend 25% of their pre-tax
income on a health care fund. It was the first ever such statement from any tobacco maker.

Local
State park expansion planned
A coalition of conservationists wants the state of North Carolina to buy a 17,000-acre tract and add it to South
Mountains State Park. They say that the government will be able to buy the land at good prices now before
developers might be able to use it. They cite the national popularity of the park and the tourists it brings
to the state.

Sources: New York Times, USA Today, Charlotte Observer

THE Crossword

ACROSS
1 US president
5 Norwegian saint
9 Steak order
13 Chills and fever
14 Cobbler's concerns
16 Cheers for Juan
17 Queue
18 Kind of cover
20 Pro and —
21 Cheryl or Alan
23 Long ome
25 Theater award
26 Gaseous states
28 Go to bat for
31 Baltic Sea's — Islands
32 Resided
33 Center
35 Wines up
36 Cake sections
37 Poet Millay
38 Article
41 Make aware
45 Prospero's island
46 Sullenly aloof
48 Flair
49 Stirs up
52 Sometimes
54 Top-drawer
56 Superlative suffix
57 Tennis name
58 Noblemen
59 Hover
60 Model
61 One-time

DOWN
1 Powder, briefly
2 Exchange premium
3 Cartoon page
4 Golf term
5 Noblemen
6 Persuade
7 Arrest
8 Med. awards
9 Rawboned
10 Arm
11 Maroon
12 Supper
19 Fat
21 Fraternal society
22 Australian dog
24 Kind of seat
27 Geese
29 Tattered
30 Tie of respect
34 One-time
