MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997. 11 THE DAVIDSONIAN. ARTS & LIVING

Sing! Dance! Listen! First annual African-American Arts Assembly celebrates various local talents, fills hearts in Hodson

By Hayes TROTTER
Guest Writer

To kick off the first annual African-American Arts Assembly, Assistant Dean of Students, Ernest Jeffries, announced, “You will be full when you leave.” His prediction was exact. I left Hodson Hall almost brimming. Minutes after finding my seat, I abandoned it, attempting to jam to the beat of two large congo drums. Tia Leak, a member of the ASE Drum Ensemble of New York City, and her percussional skilled friend, opened this celebration of the arts with an invitation to dance. “There is plenty of room in the aisles,” she said, “so I hope you all aren’t afraid to dance.” Most everyone left their inhibition in their chairs and jumped on the groove-train that was snaking around the room. Most appropriately, this arts assembly was all about interaction and sharing from the very beginning.

Ike Bailey and Paul Eubanks gave powerful readings of famous literary selections, while Justin Monroe and Ade Artis shared poetry and music of their own. It was these personal creations that provoked the audience to verbalize their appreciation. Dr. Flannagan took us on a journey with her short stories, and Patrick Daymond, wearing traditional African garb, inspired the crowd with his award-winning speech. Benin Ford calmly handled a barrage of questions from those of us who couldn’t get enough of his paintings. “Are you willing to sell your work?” someone asked. Although he said he wasn’t yet ready, the impact of his art and the whole assembly was immediate.

This gathering of student and faculty art performances was the vision of two sophomores: Sherika Allen and Ainsley Natta. The end result was a rich amalgam of music, literature, and visual art. The beauty of this event was that it highlighted the local talents, reminding us that you don’t have to go very far to be wowed or enlightened. We are fortunate enough to be surrounded by an abundance of gifts from others, and the whole event was certainly a gift to the campus.

The African-American Arts Assembly was an event that appealed to those celebratory emotions we forget about sometimes. There is so much to be proud of and so much to learn from those around us; it’s just a matter of getting together and sharing. Before the evening was over, everyone joined in song. And much as the assembly had started, it ended with the audience on their feet, singing, “let our rejoicing rise, high as the list’ning skies...” Hodson Hall was full with a beautiful melody, and so were those fortunate enough to attend.

New club jazzes up Cornelius night life

By Dave Ross
Guest Writer

For those of you seeking additional sources of entertainment outside of Davidson but closer than Charlotte, read on. I speak of the Jazz Note in Cornelius. Previously the site of a jazz club and then a sports bar, the Jazz Note now resides behind the Rainbow Deli and next to the Thai restaurant. Offering bands every weekend and some weekday nights, it features bands with an emphasis on jazz (obviously) but also blues and just about anything that isn’t classical, rock, or country. Accounting for this, there will be some that suit your taste more than others, but I have enjoyed the bands each time I’ve gone. Also, some of the bands play there semi-regularly, so you can plan to go when the bands you like are playing.Political Studies
London and Cambridge, England

This academically-challenging program for American undergraduates is an excellent opportunity to learn about the economic, political, historical, and legal issues that shape our world. It is taught by recognized scholars who are specialists in their fields. Courses include such titles as Politics and Culture, State and Society in Contemporary Europe, International Business Cultures, and The Political Economy of the European Union. The program also includes:
+ Courses available in a wide range of subject areas including economics, geopolitics, literature, political science, and law
+ Access to library and student social facilities in Cambridge and London
+ Student housing in London and Cambridge
+ Program-arranged cultural and social activities
+ Beaver College advising, support services, and academic transcript

Speak to your study abroad advisor about Beaver College programs or call for a free catalog today.

Study Abroad with Beaver College
1.888.BEAVER-9 (1.888.232.8379)
cea@beaver.edu
http://www.beaver.edu/cea/

The Ing, 2? “6 dF jo av know that you like will be playing. The $5 cover is certainly worth it, and if you go around midnight, they’ll probably halve it. Definitely plan on removing your cap and Davidson aura before entering the Jazz Note for complete enjoyment. The bar is not a college hang-out, and you must be seeking something besides another place to get drunk (although the attentive bartender and long counter are very amenable). It’s a low-lit, groovy atmosphere with a couple of couches and a good arrangement of tables and chairs. The music is usually loud enough to enjoy but allows for some close conversation. On Thursday nights (9 p.m. - 1 a.m.) hop into your leisure suit and go for Retro Night; that is, retro 70s, not the more familiar 80s. The cover is nil and it’s a dancin’ good time. Grab your honey or pal (if you don’t have one, call me), change into a hot outfit (if it’s Thursday; just chill if it’s not) and check it out. Express yourself. Free your mind. Write for Arts. Call Heather. @2148

Isabel Galhos speaks on East Timor in the 900 Room 6:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java starts the week at the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Miami String Quartet performs in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse fills your mug and morning up in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Mocktails gives away virgin versions of favorite alcoholic drinks on the Union Patio 11 p.m. - 2 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java keeps the pots brewing at the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Twenty-One Year Old Night cautions the regular beer-festers: Alcohol Awareness presents beer and wine-tasting with food in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Smoking Cessation is where misery finds company in the Morrison Room 10:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m.
Caribbean Film Festival in Perkins is led by Brenda Flanagan. Subtitles provided.
Waist Away helps you lose it in the Morrison Room 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Dr. Charles Sasser speaks on “Narrative Ethics” in the Carolina Inn 7 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Trees Lounge opens eyes in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.
CROP Lunch feeds the hungry in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Caribbean Film Festival with Brenda Flanagan continues.
Trees Lounge plays again in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse features bagels and tasty KK doughnuts in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Caribbean Film Festival FAC Pub starts the weekend in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Spring Break, you fool!

AVCNALYS Windley Hall Writing Award for Freshmen & Charles Lloyd Writing Award
Submissions due to an English faculty member by 5 p.m. Feb. 27.