THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS BRIEFS

SGA President Burk gives trustee meeting update

Buster Burk attended the Trustee conference during the past week and reported its events at last week’s student government meeting. He learned the phonathon raised $70,000; three new trustees were inducted; a financial aid resolution was passed stating that 11.5% of the budget should go towards financial aid; most dorms should be wired for internet access within 12-18 months; a campaign to raise money for a new track is beginning; an appendage to Johnston Gym is being considered as it will be converted into the new Union; and that the admissions office's top priority is international students.

SGA to vote on ATC budget tomorrow

For any interested students who wish to voice their concerns regarding the Activities Tax Council’s apportioning of student money to chartered organizations, they should attend Tuesday night’s SGA meeting at 9 P.M. in the Union Conference room. The body will be voting on whether or not they approve the ATC’s allocation of some $308,000 to different organizations. All organizations initially asked for a total of $343,000. It is the responsibility of the ATC to recommend to the SGA how to adjust the intended figures to the available amount.

NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Lecturer describes English and Indian encounters in America

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

Davidson College’s Spring 1997 Kelley Distinguished Lecturer, Dr. Karen Ordahl Kupperman, a professor of history at New York University, presented her talk, “Europeans’ and Indians’ Perceptions of Each Other in Seventeenth Century North America,” on Tuesday. Kupperman’s discourse most specifically addressed the varied responses of sixteenth and seventeenth century English writers to Native Americans encountered in and around early settlements in North America. Most intriguing was Kupperman’s suggestion that these pioneering English scribes saw in Native America many elements of their own country’s lost but storied past.

“The Indians’ lives constituted a living reproach of the modern English way of life, particularly its faltering attention to matters of hospitality,” Kupperman said. The English writers drew upon the works of ancient historian Cornelius Tacitus in comparing the highly egalitarian customs, ways and traditions of the Native Americans to those of the ancient Germans and Romans, and their own Anglo-Saxon predecessors.

Dr. Kupperman holds degrees from the University of Missouri, Harvard, and Cambridge. She has published five books; the most recent of which, Providence Island 1630-1641: The Other Puritan Colony, won the American Historical Association Beveridge Prize in 1993 for the best book in American History. She is in the process of completing her sixth historical work, Apprehending Native America, research from which served as the focus for her lecture Tuesday evening. Davidson Professor of History Russell Snapp called Kupperman’s presentation “most informative and enjoyable.”

LIFESAVER LIFEGIVER DONOR!

For information on Egg Donation call: (704) 342-8235

Now accepting qualified egg donors

You can help infertile couples conceive by becoming an egg donor. The Institute for Assisted Reproduction, a private infertility clinic in Charlotte, NC, is seeking women between the ages of 21 and 34 as donor candidates. Qualified egg donors will receive $1,800 in compensation for the significant amount of time and energy involved. Health and psychological screening is required at no charge. To learn how you can become a donor, call (704) 342-8235.

Rhea tenure case raises difficult issues

By ANN CUP
News Editor

At a liberal arts college such as Davidson, what is the properly balanced emphasis between teaching excellence and scholarly output? The case of Mitch Rhea, assistant professor of chemistry, proves just how confusing determining that balance can be. Last week, the trustees voted not to give Rhea tenure. The Trustees’ decision ended a student effort to prevent his dismissal. Chemistry majors and non-majors wrote letters or contacted President Kuykendall, Dean of the Faculty Robert Williams, and the Board of Trustees on the part of their professor.

The faculty handbook requires student input be “ascertained by means of interviews, letters, evaluation forms, or other methods.” “Course evaluations are the most important student solicitation,” says Williams. “They are read by myself and the department chair in year two of the tenure process. [Professors are reviewed for tenure in their sixth years of teaching, their evaluations are reviewed in years 2, 4, 6.] It is a very qualitative form, but it is very informative.”

Many current Chemistry students felt that their voices were not heard. “I was going to write a letter, but was told, ‘Don’t bother,’ be-“Cause Dean Williams won’t read them,” says junior Thu Thieu. “Any letter a student writes is taken seriously. We don’t want to exclude any evidence,” says Williams. “Unsolicited letters are sent straight to the department, because we don’t want the Faculty Tenure Committee to see stuff not seen by the department. Our response to those is just ‘Thank you very much.’ Letters to Trustees become like a private communication since that is not part of our procedure.”

The tenure process emphasizes teaching, professional attainments, and intellectual and moral values. “Professional attainments are judged by the department chair, colleagues in the department, and colleagues in other departments who have worked in closely related fields of scholarship.... In the matter of publication, quality is deemed more significant than quantity,” according to the Faculty Handbook.

“Everyone is disappointed, but there’s a bigger picture than what students see. From our point of view, we think he should have gotten it, but the students don’t know as much as the Faculty Tenure Committee. I think they [students] were acknowledged, but did not influence the process. I think the administration was sensitive to students’ voices,” says junior Andrew Coates.

Thieu does not agree. “The whole thing was frustrating, because no one was sure if our letters and talking to people would help,” she says.

The Dean’s office attempts to make the tenure review process as fair as possible. “Student evaluations of faculty as teachers are taken very seriously,” says Williams. “On the other hand, that is only part of the picture. Faculty are evaluating on a professional level. The course evaluations are balanced against what faculty say. Faculty judge their peers and apply the standards of the code in their area.”

Rhea’s case makes some students question the review process overall. “I have a tenured professor in the Chemistry department right now who is not half the professor Dr. Rhea is,” says one Chemistry major. “I think it is unfair that the decision of giving tenure is based so much on research, because that is not what I pay for and that is not what my parents pay for. They pay for a quality education. I feel like I got a really good education with Dr. Rhea, and it is a big loss to other students who have not had him yet.”

Kupperman is currently in the Davidson Black Alumni Network Award.

Patrick L. Daymond
Charles Wesley Hart
Latasha Rene High
Sakira Vontric Peay
Leona M. Goodell Memorial Award
Amy Christine Oakes
Lindsay Traylor
Rawley P. Turner Drama Award
Joshua Edward Gaffga
Jessica Robblee
Jose Anthony Ruiz
Anna Katherine Walraven
Charles Lloyd Award
Ned Sarchet Erickson
Cintra Pollack Windley Hall Award
James Daniel Stuntz
Vereen Bell Memorial Award
Heather Lenore Roote
James Baker Woods III Award
Kevin Edward Gaunt
Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards
Class of 1997—Lora Chavis
Class of 1998—Charlotte Hildebrande
Class of 1999—Andrew Marvin
Class of 2000—Charles Franklin Haines
Dean Rusk Program Award
Audrey Edmundson
C. Shaw Smith Award
Jenny Melissa Everett
Peyton Zachary Lacy
Charles Malone Richards Award
Jacob Andrew Darlin
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award
Spring Convocation Award Winners
Nathan Ward Raley
George Gladstone Memorial Award
Charles Wesley Hart
Athletic Awards
Tommy Peters Award
John Alfred Cowan
Rebecca E. Stimson Award
Carolyn Elise Kirsch
Departmental and Special Awards
Bill Avery Music Award
Wesley Goldsberry
Sandy Black Memorial Award in Pre-Medical Studies
Meredith Allen
Matthew Jay Ellis
Franz Boas Award in Anthropology
Thomas Hays Guthrie
Bremer German Language Award
Richard Bryan Apgar
William Scott Bryant Memorial Award
Paul Daniel Dryden
Kirsten Recknagel
Tom Daggy Biology Award
Sallie Robey Permar
Alberta Smith DeVane Religion Award
Matthew Arthur Rich
Seth Devere Clippard
W. E. DuBois Award
Kathryn Harker
Henry T. Lilly Award for Excellence in English
Catherine Sauls
Le Prix de Français
Jennifer Rawlings
Mundo Hispanico
Tiese Manigo
Douglas Houches Studio Art Award
Asher Cooke Wood
David Halbert Howard, Jr.
Chemistry Award
Susan Trace Plummer
Max Jackson Award in Art History
Steinen Karen Gerla
Kendrick Kelley Award in History
Brian Patrick Luskey
William G. McGavock Mathematics Award
Maria More
A. K. Phifer Award in Economics
Heather Brown
Nathan Ohler
J. Harris Proctor Award in Political Science
Sarah Jane Terry
Richard Ross Memorial Music Award
Ethan Fraser McCutchen
Theatre Award
Joshua Edward Gaffga
Porter Vinson Chemistry Award
Christopher Allen Thunberg
William Vinson Mathematics Award
Emily Anne Katzfey
Daniel Blain Woods Award
George Escaravage, Jr.
Amy Whitmire
William Gatewood Workman Psychology Award
Caroline Upchurch