OPINIONS 10 MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

They’re saying it’s the death of the arts in Charlotte. Well, maybe, but the Mecklenburg County Commissioners Board has made a pretty bold statement about their closed-minded, backwards, bigoted, isolationist point of view. I’m not usually one to call names, but I’m feeling some intense frustration.

Last Tuesday night, the County Commissioners of Mecklenburg County voted 5-4 to prohibit funding of the Arts and Science Council because of the organization’s “promotion” of homosexually-themed art, such as “Angels in America.” In their efforts to advocate family values, the Commissioners sought to stamp out any type of program which would undermine those “wholesome and healthy” and inherently Christian standards—meaning those standards which label homosexuality as sinful and therefore wrong.

The basis of the proposal lies in the fact that taxpayers were supporting the Arts and Science Council, and since apparently there are a lot of taxpayers opposed to art with homosexual themes, it’s not fair to use their dollars to patronize those types of programs. Just to make a point, what about the taxpayers who do support plays like “Angels in America?”

The other issue, which didn’t occur to anyone until after the proposal had already passed, is the fact that now non-profit agencies which support homosexuality, or at least seek to offer help, may be eliminated from funding as well. This includes programs such as Planned Parenthood and the Metrolina AIDS Project.

The problem with the proposal is that it comes across as incredibly self-righteous. It’s saying, our values are right, yours are wrong, and therefore we’re going to cut you off because we don’t agree with you. Instead of advocating family values or Christian morals, the Commissioners have succeeded in pointing the mighty finger of judgment directly at homosexuals. They offer not Christian-based love but a narrow-minded, judgmental point of view.

And if the County ends up cutting funding for non-profit agencies which do offer tangible help, I'll be sorely disappointed and frankly, quite ashamed. Whether or not we approve of the practice of homosexuality, as decent human beings, how can we stand to isolate and discriminate against an entire group of people? Homosexuals battle for equal rights and acceptance in society every day. Why would anyone consciously choose to “undermine” society in such a self-inflicting manner unless they truly cannot help it? And for that matter, who are we to judge them for it?

I am even more furious that much of it was in the name of Christianity. Search the Scriptures and you will find that mercy, compassion, and love are the basis of God’s love, not passing judgment. “Do not judge, and you will not be judged,” (Luke 6:37, 41-42), but instead, “be merciful, just as your Father is merciful,” (Luke 6:36). In Paul’s letter to the Romans, he says, “therefore let us stop passing judgment on one another. Instead, make up your mind not to put any stumbling block or obstacle in your brother’s way” (Romans 14:13). None of us are free from sin, and therefore none of us are free to judge. Is it not wrong that our legislators have deemed themselves godly enough to condemn another group of human beings by isolating them and “putting them in their place?” Should we not always demonstrate love and compassion towards each other? “Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres” (1 Corinthians 13:4-7).

Michael Kruse
No Time to Smell the Coffee

Too much s—t in too little time. For me, that’s college in a nutshell. And I'd be willing to bet a pretty penny I’m not alone—on this particular campus and countless others. It’s this time of the academic year that makes me wonder whether we—the young minds and future of America—are scholars in training or rats in a never-ending race. I glance at my April calendar—saturated with research papers and exams—and wonder why Captain Indifference has a choke-hold on our little world.

It’s obvious; if you’re not a genius (and very few of us are) and you want to do well—or even stay afloat—academically, you have to devote your school-year-life to the almighty book. Alas, I buck the trend. In a typical week, I'll spend more time fulfilling Davidsonian-related tasks than studying. The results—on both fronts—are predictable.

Are we learning how to think here at Davidson, or are we learning how to survive in the frenetic culture in which we live? Or are we doing both? And if so, how much of each? Would the elimination of grades or maybe just deadlines make it so we could actually concentrate on what we’re supposed to be learning? Are our brains sponges for lifetime knowledge or merely temporary containers for bits and pieces of information?

You know, failure isn’t all bad. What’s in a grade anyway? I am a good person, regardless of what my academic performance may indicate.So, how much of each? Who thinks this? Are my priorities so off-kilter that the admissions folks are at this very instant kicking themselves and wondering just where they went wrong reading my application? But seriously, in a world of higher education wracked with grade inflation, Davidson supposedly stands as a bastion of grade deflation, one of the last of a dying breed, a beacon of hope. This, however, creates a frenzied academic environment, one in which smelling the coffee is a downright impossibility if classroom success is high on (or even just on) your list of priorities. Free time here is deceiving. Probably because it’s really not. Chances are, if you’re just chilling out, there’s something “productive” you should be doing instead. A cancerous apathy eats at this campus in every realm but the classroom. That makes me angry, but that’s not to say I don’t understand. Fronts are expected and self-explanatory. I do strive for balance, but usually stumble well short of the desirable goal. But not everyone is willing to do this. In fact, very few people are. And I absolutely sympathize. Personally, I only justify taking academic hits because my considerable work at the Davidsonian is pointed directly toward a career in journalism. I willingly missed the well-rounded boat long ago. At this point, it’s either work in the sports media or live in a dumpster. Really, I don’t have any answers. But I do have questions—questions that clutter my already-jumbled mind. Are we learning how to think wrong? But when push came to shove a good while back, and when the shove is becoming increasingly violent, as is currently the case in my crumbling academic world, even I’ve got self-pride to try to uphold. It’s April, and it’s the books I must hit. Oh, I'd love to smell the proverbial coffee. But if I want to do reasonably well in the classroom (a little pipedream of mine, though a dream nonetheless), I can’t begin to even think about smelling the coffee, drinking the coffee. Hell, I shouldn’t even look at the coffee. And the same goes for those roses—no smelling, no picking, no admiring. Because I got s—t to do.

Last week, I went down to Chambers Gallery to donate blood. I hate giving blood. It interrupts my day and takes up an hour or so of my precious Davidson time. The Red Cross nurses bombard me with personal questions. That needle, it’s big. That’s an understatement—it’s absolutely enormous. Plus, I don’t get around very well without that pint of blood. I sometimes get hot and cold spells. I often feel faint. And at the end of the ordeal, all I get in return for my efforts is a little sticker that says, “Be nice to me—I gave blood today.” Be nice to me? That’s it? People are generally nice to me anyway. If I give away a ninth of my blood supply in one hour, I'd like a little more appreciation. Actually, I’d be satisfied with a little more company. I didn’t see many of you at the Gallery on Wednesday. Why was that, I wonder? I recognize that good excuses exist. I’m not addressing those of you with unarguably legitimate excuses not to give blood. I’m addressing those of you who make flimsy excuses to get out of blood donation. Let’s begin with the all-too-common excuse “I’m scared.” Don’t worry about it then. The rest of us will take care of providing the 40,000 pints of blood that are needed every day. The rest of us don’t think that giving blood is scary. We look forward to that big fat needle and that woozy feeling. What’s scarier: donating blood or finding out that someone you love was in an accident and would have a chance of survival if only more people had been brave enough to donate blood for use in an emergency? Here’s another good one: “I don’t have enough time.” Well, who does? Anyone on this campus? Those of us who donated blood didn’t do it because we had nothing better or more pressing to do that afternoon. We did it because we believe that someone’s life is more precious than an hour of our time. On the busiest day of your life, if I personally told you that I would die if you didn’t take an hour of your time to help, wouldn’t you do that for me? I think and I hope that your answer to that question is “yes.” Every time you give blood, you’re giving up to four people another chance at life. If you pass that opportunity up, you are, in effect, saying that an hour of your time is more important to you than a person’s chance to live. There are lots of other similar excuses out there. You’ve heard them. Perhaps you’ve even said them. What all of these excuses boil down to. When I donate blood, I’m giving this testimony: “Giving blood hurts. It makes me dizzy. It’s scary. It’s time-consuming. I hate it all around. But, you know what? It’s worth it. It’s worth it if it will give you or someone you love or someone you’ve never met before a chance to live beyond a day that may very well have been their last.” Only 5% of healthy, eligible donors donate blood each year. It hurts me that the other 95% are unwilling to repeat my testimony. It’s obviously too late to go back in time and give blood last Wednesday. You’re in luck, though, because blood drives are not rare occurrences. So, next time: give for me, give for people you don’t know, give for the free cookies and juice, give for the free sticker, or give because you don’t want to give lame excuses anymore.