DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

Wildcats fall just short of Herd
By Aaron DUNHAM
Staff Writer

After an upset loss to East Tenn. St. last Saturday, things did not get any easier for the women’s basketball team on their northern road swing. The Wildcats ventured into Huntington, W.Va., last Monday to take on a Marshall squad that was picked tops in the conference preseason coaches’ poll. Though they played much better than in recent league losses to Ga. Southern and ETSU, they still came up short, falling to the Thundering Herd, 81-73.

Davidson got off to a good start, something it had not been able to do in two previous conference defeats. The Wildcats made seven of their first nine shots to take an early 15-6 lead before the Herd answered with a 9-0 run to tie the game. The game then went back and forth for much of the first half, but Marshall claimed a five-point halftime lead.

The second half was also up-and-down, as Davidson took the lead twice early in the half and tied the game at 63 on a Carolyn Kirsch layup. Jamie Brown refused to let her team go down quietly, twice nailing clutch three-pointers to cut the Marshall lead to two. Davidson, however, could not get any closer, converting only 43% of its free throws (6-for-14 for the game, and just 4-for-10 in the second half).

Both teams were paced by balanced scoring attacks. Kristina Behnfeldt, last year’s league freshman-of-the-year, notched a game-high 18 points and 11 rebounds. Keri Simmons added 16 points and 11 boards. For the Wildcats, Kirsch bounced back from two subpar outings to lead the team with 16 points and 11 boards.

Track revs up for indoor season
By DALTON McLEAN
Staff Writer

Appalachian St., Brevard College, Campbell, East Tennessee State, Emory, The Citadel, UNCA, UNCC, and Winthrop faced off against the Davidson men’s and women’s track teams at Asheville on Saturday, and Wildcat athletes performed well against the stiff competition. The final team standings have not been calculated, but Davidson had a number of top ten finishes.

For the men, Roland Williams posted fifth place (4.88) in the 40-yard dash, and teammate Steve Hsieh followed with eighth. Williams paced the Wildcats in the 300 (41.02, third). Dan Dearing and Andy Vanica were right behind him with fifth and eighth, respectively. In the 500 meters, Addam Marcotte led Davidson (1:21.1). Ken Howard grabbed tenth in the 800 meters (2:12.45). In the mile, cats, finishing in 4:59.59, and Keith Gordon had Davidson’s top finish in the 3000 (9:44.06).

Davidson’s two 4x400 relay teams claimed sixth and seventh place. Mike Albert, Dearing, Williams, and Marcotte composed the first team, and the second was Steve Hsieh, Stan Baker, McElveen, and Dave Slenzak. Eugene Jung competed in the shot put.

For the women (times N/A), Jamilah Sawyer sprinted and leaped to a tie for first place in the hurdles, the Wildcats’ lone win. Teammate Schaap Freeman finished third. Also, Laura Burkholder took fourth in the 40-yard dash.

“We had a pretty good meet,” Jonathan Fly said afterwards. “The track was a little slow and it was the first meet of the season.”For many people, but we did well.” Women’s coach Beth Puckett said that they had a good meet overall and coped well with the tough conditions of UNCA’s track, which was a short 160 meters. Freshman Katy Thomas McElveen led the Wild- 

We should be officially against the rules. Kamp, who replaced Jennie Vanlerberghe in the starting lineup, had her second consecutive solid performance, tallying 16 points and 7 rebounds. Brown and Jen O’Brien added 14 and 13 points, respectively.

VMI win from page 13 started to play on our heels,” said McKillop. “But we didn’t. To be able to answer the bell when they make a run is key.” Davidson scored the next four points to widen the lead to 56-51. Chadd Holmes, who scored 14, took a pass from Ali Ton and slammed it home at the 5:47 mark to give the Wildcats a decisive 63-54 lead. That would seal it for Davidson, as from then on, the Keydets were unable to get any closer than six.

The loss for VMI snapped a four-game winning streak, their last victory coming Monday over North Division leader Marshall. The Keydets are now 5-2 since the suspensions of Andre Quarles and Brent Conley, last year’s Southern Conference Freshman-of-the-Year. “We’ve been having to pick it up, play as a team a little bit more, not just relying on one person,” said VMI coach Bart Bellairs. “When you go through adversity, you have to get stronger as a team, and that’s what we’ve done.”

Men’s basketball lands two prize recruits
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

The men’s basketball team has landed a pair of recruits for next season that should help the Wildcats again dominate the Southern Conference as they did last year. Brian Allenspach, a 6-10 center from Stoneman Douglas High in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., and Emeka Erege, a 6-4 swingman from Long Island (N.Y.) Lutheran High School, were officially accepted to school on Wednesday.

“These are two very talented student-athletes and classy young men,” said coach Bob McKillop in a press release. “They are valuable additions to our program. They will improve us athletically and they will be positive additions to our student body and the Davidson community.”

Allenspach averages 15 points and 11 rebounds at Stoneman Douglas, and has led his team to a 19-5 record and No. 1 district ranking. His twin brother, who is 7-0, has signed to play with Boston College next season.

Erege is the Wildcats’ first addition from Long Island Lutheran since McKillop (who coached there before coming to Davidson eight years ago) snagged Detlef Musch as his first ever recruit. Erege, who is from Nigeria and played in Germany before the U.S., scores 14.9 points and grabs 12.2 boards a game for a team that is currently 13-2 and No. 2 in the State. Vassil Evtimov, a freshman forward at North Carolina, starred for Lutheran last year.

Anna Ji

Fresh face Mary Shell Brosche is just one of the reasons both the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams have a strong chance to win the Southern States tournament on Feb. 13-15 at Cannon pool. The men knocked off Duke for the first time in Davidson swimming and diving history in their final tune-up Saturday.