ADVERTISEMENT www.davidson.edu

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Virtually Yours... New Web Site Debuts March 26

By J.S. STOCKDALE
Director, College Relations

Welcome to Davidson College Online, Part Deux. I extend to you a cordial invitation to check us out at http://www.davidson.edu as of March 26, when the new site goes live online. I hope you will be pleasantly surprised by the changes. (The first version of the Davidson College website was launched on August 1, 1995. This is the first major revision of the site, plus the addition of several new sections, most notably Alumni and Development and WDAV.)

Davidson’s new website was created by Neologix Communications, Inc., a new company founded earlier this year by Ron Chapple ’79 and Rob Norris which specializes in website development and design. The company is based in uptown Charlotte but has also expanded to the international arena with a Pacific Rim office in Hawaii. The creative team behind the new website was Ron Chapple ’79, chief graphic designer, Bryan Skelton ’90, chief programmer and technical guru for the project, and yours truly. What you will see when you check us out online represents hundreds of hours of work by the three of us over a period of several months, along with considerable work by other members of the Neologix team and others in the Davidson administrative staff.

In designing this new site we have attempted to create an electronic gathering place for the Davidson community — an extension of Davidson and all it represents into cyberspace. We hope that you will find the new website more intuitive and easier to use, as well as considerably more interactive than the previous site. We have also re-introduced the “Faces of Davidson” series of student portraits, photographed by Ron Chapple. Check out the site and click on student portraits to see what I mean.

Some of you are already familiar with Chapple and his work for Davidson. He came here from New Jersey and graduated in 1979, then stayed in Charlotte to form Ron Chapple Photography in 1980, specializing in commercial photography and later evolving into a broader range of communications. He has done numerous photo projects for Davidson publications in the past 10 years, including three separate “Faces of Davidson” shoots and nine covers for the Davidson Journal plus the cover photo montage of the “Kuykendall Years” on the edition out later this week. Chapple credits Davidson for teaching him to embrace creative challenges. He says, “Davidson teaches you a process for living — as times change and as ways of business and living change, you know how to deal with the changing environment around you.”

Chapple’s young protégé at Neologix, Bryan Skelton ’90, came to Davidson from Long Island, N.Y., in August 1986 for football camp and hasn’t left since except for one summer back on Long Island. Skelton majored in economics. After leaving school, he never quite escaped the pull of Davidson. He had his first job with the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, working with former Davidson Athletics Director Christopher “Kit” Morris. He then worked with World Team Sports, a non-profit organization working to increase opportunities for disabled athletes. Most recently Skelton worked for Rob Norris Communications doing website design and now for Neologix. Skelton lives in Charlotte and in his spare time aspires to be a professional roller hockey player. He is quiet and unassuming but throws a mean body check, I’m sure. When asked to describe himself, he pauses, embarrassed, then replies quietly: “I don’t know, I’m a pretty nondescript guy.” I don’t know; I find him quite descript, and I certainly enjoyed working with him on this project. Skelton was motivated to work on the project by a desire to give something back to a community that was so helpful and supportive to him.First as a student, then later as a town resident. “To me personally, Davidson represents the epitome of community,” he says. “The reason I am so interested in the Internet is that it is about communication and bringing communities together. The media have overblown the Internet and see it as a second coming for retail sales. But it was created to share information — that will be its greatest legacy.”

As for me, I was motivated to further the evolution of Davidson’s website, and in the process begin to transform our publishing paradigm at the college. My staff and I are gearing up to publish things first on the World Wide Web — with the immediacy and flexibility that provides — then secondarily with traditional print publications. About eight years ago our office was swept up in the change from traditional typesetting to desktop publishing. Now we are in transit to the new world of electronic publishing.

As for this project, it’s been a lot of hard work, but immensely fun and creative. Now, go hop online and check us out. Then let us know what you think. You can reach Ron Chapple and Bryan Skelton at rchapple@maui.net and bskelton@robnorris.com, respectively, and me at webmaster@davidson.edu, or more conventionally, drop by my office in Copeland House. Welcome once again to the virtual Davidson College. Or for many of you, welcome... back. We hope that you will enjoy the experience and be interested enough to come to the site often and stay long.

"To Liberate the Minds of Young Men and Women for Useful Lives of Leadership and Service"

Academics | Administration | Admission | Athletics | Alumni

If this is your first visit, please take a moment to read our helpful hints on using this site. If you have any questions or suggestions, please e-mail the webmaster.

Masters at Davidson: If you wanted to hear performances by the greatest orchestra musicians in North America, you might first think of traveling to Montreal, New York, Cleveland, Chicago, or a host of other far-flung cities. But what if, instead of your traveling to hear them, three of the greatest living classical musicians came here to play for you? The concert was conceived by Joe Robinson, a 1962 Davidson alumnus and principal oboist for the New York Philharmonic, as part of a larger celebration of music at Davidson that includes a week of master classes, educational concerts, and interactive sessions with students and the guest performers. The April 25 concert will cap off the events of the week by bringing all of the performers together in an evening of unforgettable music with a special appearance by international opera star Sylvia Teele. You are invited to attend this once-in-a-lifetime concert event which will raise funds for Classical 89.9 WDAV, the Donald Plott Memorial Scholarship, the Mary Nell Saunders Scholarship, and the Zachary F. Long, Jr. Music Scholarship.

Search Davidson: Academics | Administration | Admission | Athletics | Alumni | News & Events | Classical 89.9 | Davidson Journal | Parents Only | Library | Student Groups | Development

This screen capture of the new Davidson website prints at only 72 dots per inch resolution — perfect for today’s standard PC monitors, but too low to reproduce well in print.

The pictures below were drawn at random from students who participated in Ron Chapple’s photo shoot on Jan. 30. Winners will receive a free print of their photo. If you are a winner, come by College Relations for your print.

www.davidson.edu

Josh Jones
Dominick Talvacchio
Sarah Teachworth