Anna Judy @ Coach Bob McKillop (left), joined by associate head coach Steve Shurina and assistant coach Matt Matheny, had
little to be happy about during the men’s basketball team’s 100-65 loss to No. 3 Duke Thursday night at Cameron
Indoor Stadium. The Wildcats rebounded Sunday at Belk Arena, beating New Hampshire.

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

DURHAM — It took Duke exactly 2:50 to squash the men’s basketball team’s grandiose visions of pulling off a nationally-televised
upset Thursday night. With 13:11 to go, a Stephen Marshall tip-in cut the third-ranked Blue Devils’ lead to eight points.
Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski called a 20-second timeout. Whatever the 18th-year coach said, it worked. In the ensuing 170 seconds, his
squad ripped off a 13-1 run, practically instantaneously turning a tight battle into an absolute laugher. And with the fabled
Cameron Crazies and Duke's pressure defense having finally taken its toll, the pro-Blue Devil margin continued to balloon, getting as
high as 38 points (94-56 with 2:43 left) en route to the final 100-65 count.

Blue Devils use 43-16 run to beat hoopsters

“Forty minutes against Duke is 40 minutes against players with an intensity level you can’t simulate in practice,” Wildcat coach
Bob McKillop said in the postgame press conference. “They’re an extraordinarily talented team.”

“Davidson’s a great team,” said Elton Brand, one of the Blue Devils’ four vaunted rookies. “It seemed like they stuck
around forever. They just fought for everything. They actually played harder and better than us in the first half.”

So what the heck happened?

“It was a combination of us wearing them down and us picking up the defensive pressure,” said All-ACC two-guard and
All-American candidate Trajan Langdon. Indeed, Duke forced 32 Wildcat turnovers, which it converted into a whopping 48 points.

“We just totally lost our poise and made stupid mistakes,” Wildcat captain Mark Donnelly said. “We did some good things
that we wanted to do. Just not for the last 13 minutes.”

See Men’s basketball on page 10

DURHAM — It came and now it’s gone. The men’s basketball team’s only nationally televised game this season ended in
a 100-65 thrashing Thursday at Duke. It’s frustrating. The Wildcats are better than that. But you wouldn’t have known it
Thursday night.

People around here know Davidson is good. The Wildcats are favored to win the Southern Conference and go to the
Big Dance. After the game, Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski lauded both Davidson coach Bob McKillop and the program, claiming that
Duke had beaten “a very good team” in “a real battle.”

“It feels good that we beat such a good team pretty badly,” Duke guard Steve Wojociechowski said after the game.
“They are definitely an NCAA team.”

Somehow Duke’s praise isn’t enough. For small conference teams like Davidson, the opportunity for nationwide notoriety and respect is facing
the nation’s elite — like Duke — on television. Of course, small conference teams always hope to win these games.
But perhaps more realistically, these lesser-known teams want to avoid a rout.

See Motz on page 11

Football squad finishes season with loss to South Florida

By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

TAMPA, Fla. — Saturday’s season finale against South Florida presented the football team with an atmosphere it had never encountered
before — in front of over 27,000 fans. But from the onset, the Wildcat footballers let everyone know that they
were not phased at all. In the first series of the game, the host Bulls had the ball at the
Davidson 40-yard line, and it was fourth down.and one. USF, looking to establish its potent offense, went for it. But
Davidson defender Ryan Gist busted through the line and drove Bulls running back Raphael Williams to the ground, giving the
Wildcats the ball on downs. After a short run by Eric Ferguson, a transfer from South Carolina, and an incomplete
pass, quarterback Tommy Dugan — who finished the game with 50 yards passing and 67 yards rushing — saw a
hole and ripped off a 40-yard run. Davidson placekicker Brian Langley took advantage of Dugan’s scamper, kicking a 27-yard field
goal, as the Wildcats took an early 3-0 advantage.

But then the Bulls showed exactly why they are so good. Behind the arm of Chad Barnhardt, and the legs
of Williams, the Bulls roared back with four straight touchdowns en route to a 28-3 halftime lead. And South Florida,
looking to close its inaugural season with a victory, never let up. With most of their starters still playing in
the fourth quarter, the Bulls kept pounding the ball downfield and won the game 48-3. The 45-point defeat represented the
first time this season the Wildcats fell by more than 14 points.

“I can honestly say that we are the only team with a Division II schedule that will come into this
stadium and play these guys,” coach Tim Landis said. “I thought it was a great effort by our guys. We
played hard and never backed down. They hardly ever put their subs in.”

“Coming into this game, I said we had to do three things — not turn the ball over, use the
clock, and establish the option. They just answered everything we did.”

Florida represented the beginning of a string of dates with I-AA opponents. Morse on football. Page 11.

The end of an era. Bumgarner and Cindy Seegers of the volleyball squad play their last game in Davidson red
and black. Tuttle writes on two fabulous careers, Page 11.

Cat fight. Davidson comes out on top for the second straight year in a men’s basketball meeting of Wildcats, beating
UNH yesterday in Belk. Game story, page 10.

A secret no more. Stephen Marshall has a career night in the men’s hoopsters’ loss to Duke. Men's basketball notebook,
page 10.

Traveling troubles. The women’s basketball team lost twice this weekend on a Michigan road swing. Game story, page 10.

Duke 100, Wildcats 65
Wildcats 72, New Hampshire 53

Women’s basketball
Central Michigan 86, Wildcats 79
Saginaw Valley St. 87, Wildcats 52

Football
South Florida 48, Wildcats 3

Volleyball
Western Carolina 3, Wildcats 2 (Southern Conference tournament)

Bumgarner capped one of the most outstanding careers in Wildcat volleyball history, earning second-team All-Southern Conference honors this week.

ALSO INSIDE
SCOREBOARD: DSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK
SCHEDULE DSS GAMES OF THE WEEK

The beginning of an era... The football team’s game against South Florida represented the beginning of a string of dates
with I-AA opponents.

Men’s basketball
vs. Wake Forest Saturday (7:30 p.m., WAGI-FM 105.3)
Dec. 3 vs. Wake Forest (7:30 p.m., WAGI-FM 105.3)
Dec. 6 vs. Carnegie Mellon (7:30 p.m., WAGI-FM 105.3)

Women’s basketball
Saturday vs. Coll. of Charleston (WHIP-AM 1350)
Dec. 3 at Georgia Tech (7:30 p.m.)
Dec. 6-7 Cheesbrough-Ponds Invitational (Canisius, St. Francis (N.Y.), Eastern Michigan)

Men’s basketball vs. Wake Forest
Dec. 3 * Belk Arena * 7:30 p.m.
In their second opportunity in two weeks to knock off a highly-touted ACC opponent, the Wildcats host the Tim Duncan-less
Demon Deacons.

Women’s basketball vs. Georgia Tech
Dec. 3 Atlanta * 7:30 p.m.
After losing its first three away games, Davidson will look to exorcise its road demons with a game against ACC
foe Georgia Tech.
