THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Alcohol Week’s events warn against excess

ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

Swimming, movies, sobriety tests, and simulated car accidents are a few of the many events that will be taking place during the next few days, as the campus recognizes Alcohol Awareness Week. In conjunction with many organizations on campus, Health Educator Georgia Ringle coordinated the week of events with the theme “Lollanobooza” to “get people to think about their drinking, especially drinking and driving,” says Ringle.

In the past, Alcohol Awareness Week has been held in October when it is recognized nationally. This year, however, because there was a change in the position of Alcohol and Drug Counselor and Health Educator, a job formerly held by Art Flagg, the week was planned to take place in the spring semester instead. One of the advantages of having Alcohol Awareness Week in February, according to Ringle, is that the events would get students to start thinking about drinking as they prepare for spring break.

The campus and community organizations involved include: Residence Life, Dean of Students Office, Campus Security, Dining Services, SHOC, the Theater Department, the Union Board, the Athletics Department, Patterson Court Council, North Mecklenburg Medics, and the Davidson Volunteer Fire Department.

Highlighting the week’s events are sobriety tests, “Sex, Violence and a Six Pack,” and a wrecked car displayed on the Union Patio. The sobriety test will take place Monday night at Vail Commons. Two Davidson students will be taking part in the demonstration: one will be served beer and the other liquor until they are both intoxicated. A member of the North Carolina State Patrol will then conduct the test normally given to individuals who are pulled over for driving under the influence. Free ice cream sundaes will be served for those who wish to attend the demonstration.

“Sex, Violence, and a Six Pack” is a series of skits written and performed by Davidson students which paint “realistic pictures of a party night on campus,” Ringle says. At the end of the performances, the audience is welcome to participate in a discussion. This event, happening Tuesday night, will be held in the 900 Room.

“The Jaws of Life” exhibition promises to be one of the most exciting of the week’s events. The Davidson Volunteer Fire Department and the North Mecklenburg Medics will demonstrate the procedures followed for a car accident. This will include extracting a body from an actual wrecked car that will be brought to the Union Patio on Thursday.

Ringle is very pleased with the campus-wide effort to bring these events to campus. According to her, the goal of Alcohol Awareness Week is “to bring the issue of alcohol to the forefront, to show that it is something we can talk about.” She emphasizes that alcohol consumption is something that should be discussed. She also recognizes that it is a difficult issue to deal with because of the mixed population on campus of legal and under-age students. She hopes that the students do not feel as if they are being preached to, but will have fun and take advantage of all of the events.

“You will make better decisions if two bodies look at [the proposals].”

from page 1

overrode the ATC council in deciding this. Now we have almost $3000 that could go to a lot of other organizations,” Burk said that day. That night, however, he met with the Senate Executive Committee of the SGA and together they decided that the increase was necessary for the SGA.

The ATC, the student-led committee that allocates funds to all independent campus organizations, is a committee of the SGA. Before the SGA vote last month, the SGA had asked for funds in the same manner as all other organizations—by submitting a budget to the ATC for approval. After the ATC approves a budget, the entire list of allocations is submitted back to the

800-258-3127.

For Davidson College Students, Faculty and Staff

We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special Davidson College Ski Program which is being made available by Winterplace Ski Resort, near Beckley, West Virginia. Davidson College Students, Faculty and Staff wishing to take advantage of this special ski program must present their Davidson College identification card when purchasing lift tickets or renting ski equipment.

Special Prices are:
Weekdays (Monday through Friday)
Lift Ticket Rental Equipment (skis, boots & poles)
9am to 10pm $19.95 $10.95
3pm to 10pm $17.95 $10.95

Weekends/Holidays
8am to 10pm $34.95 $16.95
5pm to 10pm $21.95 $12.95

Compare these prices to our regular prices. Weekend 9am - 10pm lift - ticket and rentals would normally be $57! If staying overnight, enjoy our sister resort, Glade Springs, or stay in Slopeside Condos! Call 800-634-5233 for reservations. Ask about special Spring Break discounts for March! This year Winterplace added 2 new quad (4 person) chairlifts for a total of 7 chairlifts to get you to the top faster than ever. Plus, 4 new trails (for a total of 27 trails and a snowboard park) and a new 10,000 square foot mid-mountain facility, The Mountain House.

Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 milesSouth of Beckley, West Virginia, 2 miles from I-77, Exit 28, Flat Top. For additional skiing or lodging information, call 800-607-7669. For the latest snow conditions, call the Winterplace Snow Phone. Don’t let the weather in your area fool you! Winterplace has up to 5 feet of snow over the entire mountain. State-of-the-art snowmaking has covered the mountain with snow that is more resilient than Mother Nature's! The snow is packed into a durable base that lasts through warm weather and rain! Then, the snow is groomed into a surface that you just can’t wait to ski! Winterplace has the highest snowmaking capacity per acre in the Southeast!

According to former SGA President Warren Buford and former ATC Chair Rebekah Peeples, the proposal for an automatic 5% of funding was passed by the SGA in order to solidify the link between the two bodies and eliminate the awkward situation of each SGA approving its own budget. Union Board Director William Brown, who sits on the ATC, feels that the strange relationship between the ATC and the SGA has not caused major problems in the past. “I know of no time when the SGA tried to vote down the budget that was presented to them by the ATC.” Peeples says that the intent is good, but the process should be reviewed. “The SGA wants to fund a rides program—that’s great. I don’t think that the SGA is trying to pad their resources. They were just trying to give themselves enough money for future projects. They use [the money] well. It’s just problematic that they did this with no real check. You will make better decisions if you have two bodies looking at [the proposals].” Discussing the automatic 5% plan, Brown feels that “it would have been better if the SGA had had this reviewed by the ATC.” Even though the plan remains the same, Burk plans to do this. “I want to see what the ATC recommends. They need to look at everything because that’s their job.” Senior Class Senator Sarah Terry feels that the increase is warranted. “The [automatic 5%] isn't a cut.”

Dr. Rosemarie Tong’s book explores feminist approaches to bioethics
By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

In her recently published book Feminist Approaches to Bioethics, Dr. Rosemarie Tong explores feminist bioethics and the need for feminists to build consensus. Tong describes feminist bioethics as “attentive to issues of gender so that women don’t get neglected and so that a fuller perspective of the issues will be presented in ethical analysis. Overall ethics focus on allowing people to be as free as possible and experience the least possible harm.”

Peeples hopes that the money is used responsibly. “One hundred dollars may not mean a lot to the SGA, but it would mean a lot to Amnesty International or SERCH or FLAG.” “This will be a trial year,” says Burk. “If the rides program is a big flop, then we won't need [the increase]. This is a good year to try it.”

Get the inside scoop, write for news. Call Ann or Naresh x2148

The Sensuous Bean Coffeehouse/Cafe
136 Stutis Rd. in Mooresville
Open Monday - Saturday
Full line of coffees, ice cream, and light lunches

Over 800 Summer Jobs Available
Meet Bryn Mawr Placement Director
Wed., March 12th @ College Union
11 am - 3 pm
For advance applications and job descriptions call toll free: 1-888-526-2267

According to Tong, the diversity in feminist bioethical viewpoints enriches discussion but should not prevent feminists from arriving at consensus. “You try to figure out which policy, with all its implications, is going to benefit the most possible women. You can’t benefit all women—that’s impossible—but this shouldn’t prevent seeking the best possible thing for the most possible women,” Tong says.

In Part One of her book, Tong critiques the different feminist approaches to ethics and discusses how they relate to nonfeminist ethical approaches. She suggests that the two primary types of feminist ethics—the ethics of care, which focus on virtues such as nurturing and compassion traditionally associated with women, and the ethics of power, which focus on working toward gender equity and eliminating things which promote a patriarchal society—reinterpret traditional ethical approaches with an emphasis on including women’s perspectives, interests, modes of moral reasoning, and the cultural values traditionally associated with women. She also discusses the substantial differences among the various feminist ethics.

In the second half of her book, Tong describes how feminist ethics approach issues of procreation such as contraception and sterilization, abortion, artificial insemination, surrogacy, and genetic screening. She shows how various feminist ethics differ from nonfeminist ethics and from each other on these issues. She also details the complexity of feminist ethics and bioethical issues.