THE DAVIDSONIAN

PS RES

Hildebrand: Could you restate how you intended to return the flag to the post office?

Gist: The post office opens at 7 a.m. I was going to bring it in at 7 a.m., talk to the postmaster... To my belief — I've heard other students — they’ve also noticed the flag flying at night. My belief is that... The condition of the links was that they were pretty close to shut.

Hildebrand: Were your intentions more than just returning the flag?

Gist: They were, they were. My intentions were to talk to the postmaster and rectify the situation.

Hercules: So were you intoxicated...?

Gist: I was not.

Hildebrand: Have you ever noticed that the flag was being flown... at night?

Gist: Davidson has; not at the post office.

Hercules: When you take a flag off of a pole, what’s the first thing you typically do with the flag when it comes off the pole?

Gist: You can’t fold the American flag alone — folding the American flag requires two people, unless you’re incredibly... You've got to have... a person at one end, and what... does is hold it up. It’s perfectly acceptable in ROTC to leave the flags — like... taking them down alone, bringing them to the apartment. If there’s no one there to help you, you can place it over the couch.

Hercules: That's what happened in the car, was that you...?

Council member: Is there a — I don’t know, I read something some — a section of law — I don’t... have that right there. Is there something that says there’s a wrong and a right way to do that? Like, to take the flag up — is there a proper procedure laid out in a subsequent part of that law right there?

Colbert: No, there is not.

Council member: Alright.

Deepa Kamath: So if you observed the flag...?

Hildebrand: What's that?

Kamath: So if you observed the flag flying, and it wasn't illuminated, and it wasn’t on campus, being at any off-campus...?

Hildebrand: Try not to phrase a hypothetical. Did that take away your question?

Katie Nelson: Is it the same question, but is it written anywhere that if there is not a light illuminating the flag that you are allowed to take it down, or does it say... I might want to... Do you think that...?

Hildebrand: Just because Gist is on the stand right now, the questions that we ask must be related specifically...

Nelson: Right.

Hildebrand: But if you need that to clarify a question that you want to ask... What we'll do is, we'll...

Colbert: I need to be clear on what you want from me.

Hildebrand: We want to know the responsibility that a citizen — if there are any outlined in removing a flag that is improperly lit.

Defense advisor: Are you aware of any other... than removing the flag at the moment...?

Gist: No, not really... Now you can tell me, if a situation’s wrong, do you rectify it?

Council member: When you were detained by the police... talked to any college officials...?

Gist: Well, he was concerned that I was... a college football player, and Tim Landis, the head football coach... any kind of interaction with the community... somewhat negative, it could be a problem. He offered that, if they had a problem, he would come to them, personally explain exactly what had happened and why it was not an issue, and...

Kamath: In the course of your training, have you made it... everybody instructed by... knows that this is an option that they take...?

Gist: In the course of my training, it’s never been brought up what to do if the flag is flying at night. It’s wrong, and what happens... no translation.

Hildebrand: Were you aware that removing... government property as applies in... that that would be considered larceny?

Colbert: Excuse me, excuse me. I’m going to have to object to that one.

Hildebrand: Why?

Colbert: I believe that that supplemental information is based upon the... that this was, in fact, a larceny. In fact, we have a definition of it—

Hildebrand: I’m not saying that it was a larceny or wasn’t a larceny. I’m just asking if Ryan knew that his actions... criminal, could be taken as criminal in nature...

Hildebrand: ...by this department of criminal...

Council member: ...

Hildebrand: ...because it’s a criminal action... Were you aware — you're taking down a flag, that that would be considered stealing government property, and that you could be charged with larceny?

Gist: I couldn't be charged with larceny. Larceny, as I said earlier, is defined as having felonious removal of property with malicious intent. He has the actual law right there. So it could not be considered larceny in a U.S. court of law or any proceedings that violate...

Hildebrand: OK, my question, though, is, did you ever consider... that that would be thought of as larceny?

Gist: No, because it’s not. Let me read to you the elements of larceny: “The person is guilty of the offense if 1) he takes personal property belonging to another, and 2) carries it away without consent of the possessor, and with the intent to deprive the possessor of its use permanently, knowing that the taker is not entitled to it.” Therefore, I don’t satisfy number four, which is the heart of larceny.

Fisher: Can I object to a point and go back...?

Hildebrand: Sure — Well, actually, well... right now, the Council is questioning the witness, and then you can bring that up in the requestioning.

Gist: Webster's Dictionary is a literary...

Hildebrand: OK.

Colbert: Don’t worry about it for now.

Hildebrand: Does... have any more questions?

Hercules: Were you aware of sanctions here... Code? Was that where...?

Council member: Yeah, were you aware that that might be something that...?

Gist: Not at all.

Council member: No?

Hildebrand: Does the Council have any more questions?

Matt Ellis: Which do you hold in higher regard, your honor... commandments, or the commandments of the...?

Gist: Now, when I did this, I did it for two reasons. For one reason... it’s wrong. For another, more important reason, I have a lot of respect for the flag, and my country, and I serve this country. And that’s the kind of reason why I think the flag...

Hildebrand: At this point, the defense advisors may question the witness.

Colbert: May we have a short recess with...?

Hildebrand: In order to do...?

Colbert: To discuss something amongst...

Hildebrand: Well, what I’m asking for right now is, Do you have any questions you would like to address... in light of questions... up by the Council or the solicitors?

Colbert: I understand that.

Hildebrand: So you need a recess in order to determine what questions you're going to ask?

Colbert: I just need a recess...

Hildebrand: I need to understand why. If it’s just to take a recess to discuss matters that aren’t pertinent...

Colbert: It's pertinent; it’s pertinent to this...

Hildebrand: To the questions that you have to ask...?

Colbert: Yes, it’s pertinent to the questions that I have to ask.

Hildebrand: ...five minutes?

Colbert: Two minutes.

Hildebrand: Two minutes.

Colbert: That's fine.

[recess]

Hildebrand: The student solicitors may now requestion the witness.

Fisher: OK, we'd like to...

Hildebrand: Right now, we're just dealing with questions to Ryan.

Fisher: Can we ask... Matt asked you which do you hold in higher regard, I believe that was a question...

Hildebrand: Make sure you speak up.

Fisher: Matt asked you which you held in higher regard, the ROTC vows or the Davidson College Honor Code.

Gist: ROTC vows... what do you mean, my oath?

Fisher: Your oath.

Gist: My oath. I believe supporting and defending the Constitution is more important than my college career — not to belittle your proceedings at all.

Fisher: Well, does removing the flag defend the Constitution?

Gist: No, it’s upholding regulations.

Fisher: OK.

Gist: ...My oath.

Hildebrand: Do you have any further questions?

Fisher: No. No further questions.

Hildebrand: OK, the Council may now requestion the witness. The Council has no further questions at this time. The Student Solicitors may present any rebuttal evidence they deem necessary. Ryan? Ryan, you can...

Fisher: I guess as rebuttal evidence we'd like to present Webster's definition of larceny, which is “the wrongful taking of another’s goods,” and that’s it. It states nothing of...intent, nothing of what... planning on doing in the morning...

Hildebrand: Will the audience please be quiet?

Fisher: That's it.

Hildebrand: The Defense Advisors may now submit any rebuttal evidence.

Colbert: ...Solicitors, we'd like to... this definition of larceny from the North Carolina Crime... provided to us from Dave Harding, of the Davidson College Police Department. That's from the... himself.

Hoover: But we also object, and we also have to remember that that does not involve...

Colbert: Objection. We're in North Carolina.

Hildebrand: OK, that outburst was uncalled for. OK? It’s not being fair to the Student Solicitors — it was a valid point.

Hoover: According to the...

Hildebrand: But... right. What we're looking at right now is the Code of Responsibility; we’re not looking at state laws, Davidson laws. We're just looking at the Code of Responsibility.

Colbert: Excuse me.

Hildebrand: We all — the Council understands that.

Colbert: I understand. With all due respect, you mentioned in your question about... was he aware of the... offenses as he...

Hildebrand: That wasn’t the question.

Colbert: Well, it was something to that effect... mention lawsuits, which goes beyond the bounds of Davidson College campus, and...

Hildebrand: Right. But what I was referring to was intent, though. If the intent wasn’t there to commit larceny, the intent was only to uphold some public good, then that would have come through in that...

Colbert: I understand you, but OK, when we submitted that in response to... This supersedes that... So if you do use a definition of larceny... whether or not... that would be the one to focus on...

Hildebrand: Which we won't, because we're...

Audience member: ...@ Ryan Gist. just looking at the Code of Responsibility.

Colbert: That's fine.

Hildebrand: OK, then that’s fine. Just... at this point, we'll take a five-minute break, and this will give a chance for the Student Solicitors and the Defense Advisors to prevent — to present — any closing statements that they deem necessary.

{recess}

Hildebrand: Well, since we have this time, maybe I'll just explain what the next process will be. What we're going to do is we're going to hear the closing arguments of the Student Solicitors and then the Defense Advisors. Then at that point, the Honor Council goes into executive session, and that’s a private part of the Honor Council where people go over the facts of the case and will decide guilt or innocence. When we come to our decision, we'll contact Ryan Gist and the Defense Advisors and Student Solicitors and deliver our decision. If we decide that Ryan is innocent, then everything would stop in this room, and nothing would go beyond this. If we find that he is guilty, then we would decide sanctions, and inform him of our decision. So that’s basically what goes on from here. If — as anyone — if you have a problem with the Honor Council’s decision, there's ways to appeal. This is just to... an open hearing for... saying what... understand the process, become a little bit familiar about whether the Honor Code means and how we uphold it.

Audience member: When will you decide?

Hildebrand: And that’s another thing, is that the Council takes however long it needs to come to a conclusion. Sometimes it takes an hour, sometimes it takes six hours, so we have no answer to that question. If you would like to stay and do homework, or kill the time, then you could, but we can’t give any time limit to when we'll reach our decision...

Audience member: Charlotte, are your all decisions based on what's presented here, or what information you also know? See what I’m saying?

Hildebrand: No, it’s only... we only know what you have heard in the trial, so our resources are the evidence of the Student Solicitors and the Defense Advisors present, what the witnesses say, and then it’s all pretty much based on the Red Book, too. That's our main resource.

Audience member: Did you read the article in the newspaper?

Hildebrand: I think everyone reads the newspaper. It... Can I read The Davidsonian? Yes.

Audience member: Charlotte...

Hildebrand: Yes?

Audience member: How's the process work? Is it unanimous decision, majority, three to two, one to eight?

Hildebrand: Right. Well, what we have to do, is we have to reach majority for determining guilt or innocence. But if a sanction requires suspension, then it has to be unanimous.

Audience member: Are you a voting member, or just a medium?

Hildebrand: I'm a voting member, and I... Asa is a non-voting member, and he handles everything... And that’s fair, because he has some of the evidence that’s not necessarily dependent upon. And he counts the ballots; he’s the, like, mutual group...

Audience member: Why is Dean Jeffries not present?

Hildebrand: Actually, in his defense, the administrators tend to stay out of student business because the Honor Council is student-run. No, I'm not sure if everybody here read — I mean not all... People in organizational... like advising a court case, and they usually don’t come to any of the proceedings. He did leave a number. If we have questions, we can contact him.

Audience member: Does the administration not have any say over what’s actually in the Honor Code or Code of Responsibility?

Hildebrand: Like, they have... What do you mean by “no say?”

Audience member: Well, what I’m saying is that it’s a body of, you know... Everything’s run by students, but there’s a... what it all says, that’s essentially their, you know, their control.

Hildebrand: Well, like, Dean Jeffries and Dean Shandley don’t write what's in the Code; that’s...

Audience member: ...all students?

Hildebrand: Right, but it’s a faculty that is based on...

Audience member: ...administration.

Hildebrand: Right. Well, it’s — that’s just for students. It’s a student conduct council that is in charge of... is on that committee, so it is some students, faculty, and — OK, at this point we'll stop the questioning... If you have any further questions, we were elected by you, for you, so you can call anyone on the Honor Council, and we'll do our best to answer questions.

[hearing resumes]

Hildebrand: Will the student solicitors please present your closing oral arguments?

Hoover: Yes, we might commend Mr. Gist for his patriotic intentions to protect the American flag. No one has disputed the fact that, as an American, people find it noble to cherish our symbol. However, Mr. Gist’s patriotic intentions are not on trial here tonight. Tonight you, members of the Davidson College Honor Council, are here to decide whether Ryan Gist’s actions, consisting of removing federal property from the town of Davidson’s post office, is a violation of the Code of Responsibility, according to Davidson College. This Code of Responsibility declares: “Responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions.” Members of the Honor Council, Ryan Gist did choose to act freely and with liberty. He removed the American flag from the Davidson’s post office. Now he must be ready to accept full responsibility for his actions.

Hildebrand: Will the defense please present your closing oral arguments?

Wesley Hart: On the night of September 4, 1997, Ryan Gist lowered the flag, folded it, and placed it on his table with the intent of returning it the next morning, as he felt it was his patriotic duty. Mr. Gist believes whole-heartedly that his actions were... necessary, and right. Seemingly, the federal government agrees, as officials saw no purpose in pursuing any form of reprimand. In fact... officer at the post office, Mr. Kopfer, stated that actions had been initiated to correct the Code violation; the flag will be lit. Gist’s actions harmed neither any persons or institutions. Is Mr. Gist aware of Section II of the Code of Responsibility? Yes, he is — and he acted properly. There is evidence of no violation — therefore, there should be no sanctions. Thank you.

Hildebrand: The Honor Council, at this point, will go into executive session.

{recess}

Hildebrand: The Council will now read the verdict. Because there was no clear and convincing evidence, the Honor Council found Ryan Gist not guilty of violating Section III of the Code of Responsibility.