Michael Brady of the Davidsonian recently sat down with new Service Coordinator Bill Abrams ’97. Abrams discussed his mission, his goals, and his vision for his new role.

The Davidsonian: What philosophy do you feel you’re bringing to this position?

Abrams: I am very much concerned with questions of how to understand people and how to understand the nature of life. I think that life is largely about the education you receive in both an academic setting and an experiential setting. As service coordinator, I come into the picture when we talk about experience and about diversity of experience. I am here to encourage people to challenge themselves to work in a community that has very different things to offer from the Davidson campus. The reason I chose this job has to do with personal philosophy. That is, essentially, the relationships we conduct and the way we act in our daily lives very much reflect our character. I am here to ask purposeful questions and to advise students on how their lives relate to community and on what community means in their lives. I ask the question, “What is a person’s responsibility within a community?”

D: What service experiences motivated you to be in a position of this sort?

A: Like many people, I didn’t have a tremendous amount of experience with community service when I came to Davidson College. I managed volunteers and ultimately became vice president of Reach Out, but it was not until my senior year that I participated in a long-term project where I was directly involved with a local community. Then I began tutoring at Alexander Middle School and I drove a truck for what is now called Community Food Rescue. I want to help other students experience that immersion within a community.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson education

D: How does your experience relate to your purpose or your goal for this job, for this office, and for Davidson College?

A: I think the education at Davidson can be enhanced greatly by service learning, joining your academic experience in classrooms with active experience in the community. The idea is to take into your relationships and into the community things you learn and to make yourself a reflection of the things you believe.

D: What are your day-to-day duties? What do you do to coordinate service on campus?

A: Basically my role is as an advisor to individual students, but a large part of my job is also to advise different service groups. For instance, my role with Reach Out is to advise the officers of that group and individual programs on how to manage volunteers, how to recruit volunteers, how to conduct their operation, to set goals, develop a mission, and set objectives on how to reach those goals. Then I help them evaluate at the end of the semester where strengths and weaknesses lie. Ideally, every student that goes out in the community will have the opportunity to sit with other people that do the same thing and reflect on their experience. I assist students in their placement, and we talk about things that are important to their first experience — structure and the relationship between the student and the agency where they volunteer. I help people see clearly all the things that can be confusing or not so apparent. Those things to me are relatively simple, and the most profound reason I do this job is because of the relationships it brings me into and the ways it helps me to challenge people.

D: So is it safe to say that the most engaging aspect of the job is the relationships you build with students while they’re here, and knowing that, on a grander scale, you’re affecting service in general?

A: I think that it very much translates into something larger. It definitely acts on the level of individual relationships. I think that’s how things begin. There’s an organization called Campus Outreach Opportunity League that was started by one person who drove his car across the East Coast talking with people about service. He was a visionary who began with simple communication, individual relationships. I think that everyone inherently has a responsibility to their com-munity, and I think about half the people in the world make a conscious effort to fulfill that responsibility. A lot of people still float, however, and don’t necessarily engage themselves in their community.

D: Do you foresee any challenges during the upcoming year?

A: My challenge is to be an advisor, to be a resource, to help people develop a vision. When I was a student, I came in with a huge idea, and I sat down with a group of people that brainstormed it and made it happen. It turned into a two-week program with over 20 activities that were dedicated to community awareness, issue awareness, and service projects. This office is here to help students develop a voice and to believe that their actions make a difference. Students should know this office is always open and is a resource for everyone. We’re in the basement of the Union opposite the bookstore. I welcome people to come meet with me and talk about their interests.

— The Davidsonian needs an Ads person. If you are interested in making business contacts, making money for a great cause (us), and putting something extremely beneficial on your resume, contact Michael Kruse at x6346 or Austin Dean at x6735. 
$ This is a paid position $

Compiled by Stephanie Mlynar

International

Princess Diana dies in car accident

An accident late Saturday night in a Paris tunnel claimed the lives of Princess Diana and her romantic companion, Emad Mohammed al-Fayed. Reports indicate that her Mercedes 600 sedan was being pursued by photographers on motorcycles. Of the four occupants in the vehicle, only her bodyguard survived, while the chauffeur died on impact.

More deaths in Algeria

More than 300 people were found massacred in their homes Friday in Algiers, Algeria, furthering the problems between the Algerian government and the Islamic groups seeking to gain control of the North African nation. The conservative Islamic groups are seeking power of the government and implantation of Islamic laws which require women to cover their heads, ban alcohol, and make Islam the mandatory religion. More than 60,000 people have died in Algeria since 1992. Since June, attacks by Islamic militants have increased dramatically. There has been speculation that the Algerian government is inciting massacres to justify its execution of Islamic supporters and to gain the support of Western nations.

Bosnian broadcasting causing problems

In Bosnia, broadcasting is now being used as an “incendiary message” transmitter, as stated by NATO. Bosnian-Serb leaders are accused of broadcasting violent messages that have caused attacks on NATO forces. James Rubin, the State Department spokesman, stated that “there was clearly a coordinated use of media to incite violence.” The UN was attacked by Karadzic’s followers Friday with stones. No one was seriously injured. The UN stated that it “will not hesitate to take necessary measures, including the use of force, against media networks or programs inciting attacks” as stated by NATO Secretary General Javier Solana.

National

Primetime reprimanded

ABC’s Primetime Live, along with Capital Cities-ABC, was recently sued by Food Lion for undercover work done at Food Lion grocery stores. A jury found ABC guilty of fraud, trespassing, and breach of loyalty. It awarded $1,402 in compensatory damages and $5.5 million in punitive damages. The $5.5 million was due to ABC’s lying to videotape inside the supermarket. The judge reduced the punitive damages because its grandiose figure was “suspect.” Instead, Capital Cities-ABC will pay a total of $314,000. ABC claims that it was merely doing its job by being faithful and honest to its viewers. It also claimed that the First Amendment protected them from being sued. Food Lion stated that its food practices are not as shown in videos where rats ate food that was later sold, and rotten meat was displayed as fresh by the use of food dyes.

USDA may increase its power

The United States Department of Agriculture, which inspects beef, pork, and poultry, is seeking to increase its power to recall meat products, impose higher fines, and shut down plants. This follows a recent outbreak of E. Coli in ground beef. As of now, the USDA cannot shut down unsafe plants or recall meat. It can only warn customers of affected meat, withdraw its inspectors, thus stopping meat production, or work with other non-governmental agencies to suggest or “advise a text coal