~The Davidphonia EBEXULT; A -ROUN DtLA BIA; BARE SLIT SONNY DAVIDSON, JR. DAY OF JUDGEMENT VOLUME 666, NUMBER 867-5309

A vicious blow
The two best papers in the Carolina region merge with hurricane force
By STARR ON LOCATION FROM PRISON
Hurricane Expert

In a hastily-called news conference Friday evening, Charlotte Observer publisher Rolfe Neill announced that the Trustees have granted the copyright
of the Davidsonian to the Charlotte Observer. “This is a great decision for the Observer and for Davidson,” Neill said.
“Vagt [Davidson’s new president] and the Trustees gave us the go-ahead for this Thursday. His plan to run Davidson more
like a business fits well with our strategy of diversifying our market.”

Neill explained that the changes will occur next semester. The current Davidsonian staff will be retained but will enjoy the
full use of Observer facilities and support staff. Also, some new features will be coming to the Davidsonian next semester.
“We want to extend the same great coverage we give our Charlotte readers into the Davidson market,” said Neill.

Details of the Observer’s proposals were released to the Davidsonian by an anonymous Davidson College official. They include filling nearly
three-fourths of the paper’s space with ads, jacking the font size up to 20 point, and cutting the average story
length by half. An Ebonics edition of the newspaper will also be offered so that everyone has equal access to
quality education. “We're going for a more USA TODAY look up in Davidson. It should be popular with the academic
community.”

Public safety raids campus, arrests 1588
By AWANA PHUQUEUE
Staff Writer

Defense attorneys including Johnnie Cochran and Robert Shapiro. School officials are confident that all charges will be dropped and that
the accused students will receive medals for being persecuted by the legal system. Cochran and Shapiro have no comment to
make about the case at this time.

On April 31, agents from the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) raided the Davidson College campus and charged
1588 of the school’s 1601 students with felonies and misdemeanors under Articles 14-177 and 14-184 of the General Statutes of
North Carolina. The 13 students not charged include all members past and present of the executive board of InterVarsity Christian
Fellowship (IVCF) and campus activist Eric Sapp.

Article 14-177 reads: “If any person shall commit the crime against nature, with mankind or beast, he shall be guilty
of a felony and shall be fined or imprisoned in the discretion of the court.” Crimes against nature include fellatio,
cunnilingus, analingus, anal sex, homosexual acts, and any “indecent methods to gratify a perverted and depraved sexual instinct which is
an offense against public decency and morality.” (State v. Adams, 1980)

Article 14-184 reads: “If any man and woman, not being married to each other, shall lewdly and lasciviously associate, bed
and cohabit together, they shall be guilty of a misdemeanor ... Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisonment for not more than six months, or
both.”

SBI agent Phillip Winston says, “The campus police were receiving quite a number of complaints from members of the community
about the noise generated by the school at night. Originally, they thoughtIt was coming from frat parties, and although the
parties are indeed loud, much of the noise was coming from young couples rutting like animals.” Winston continues, “The campus
police are equipped primarily to give students parking tickets and watch them while they puke their guts out, and when
they realized that the sounds were the result of felonious activity, they called us in. “They just aren’t equipped to
deal with felonies, and that’s what SeeSex and all that on page 4 demic crowd up there,” Neill said.

The Observer proposes to bring its legendary columnist Doug Smith to grace the pages of the Davidsonian. The cheerleader who
has steadfastly reported on Charlotte’s blossoming into a world-class city, Smith writes a daily business column in the Observer. His
columns chronicle the exciting developments in the world of strip mall openings, drug store expansions, flexible-use office space, and regional
call centers. “I think Davidson needs to wake up to reality,” Smith said. “Some light assembly space, upscale shops, maybe
a condo complex could liven up Main Street a little bit. Davidson’s got a long way to go before its
office space and retail catch Charlotte’s urban sophistication, but it’s got potential.”

Sports reporter Tom Sorensen would also come on board to replace Michael Kruse as sports editor. “Tom could bring his
enthusiasm for the Hornets up to Davidson, where they could use some of his encouragement. Michael Kruse’s coverage is so
negative — we need someone to idolize our athletes, and Tom does that well,” said Neill.

Some students seemed to like the professionalization of the school paper. “Maybe we can use the money we save to
flood the campus with strobe lights and buy every student the Jeep Cherokee they deserve,” said Lucian Dervan. SGA President
Buster Burk was reportedly tangled in a nasty swing set accident and could not be reached for comment.

Eric Sapp was present at the news conference and was outraged. “This is a disgusting abuse of power by the
liberal establishment of this school. Who gave Vagt the right to take the paper away from the students? I always
thought so highly of the student editors,” Sapp shouted as his voice trailed off, choked with emotion.

Reaction from the faculty was decidedly more negative. “This is what happens when you let somebody without a Ph.D. take
on the leadership of an academic institution. I don’t believe he’s qualified to make these decisions,” said an English professor
who did not wish to be identified. Another biology professor was indifferent. “For five days of the week Davidson students
pretend to think, then they drink and hook up. It doesn’t matter what happens.”

Will Bradshaw

FREEZE! Davidson students, apphousers Dick Holder and Virginia Jones were testing out the sound quality of Love Auditorium when Sergeant
Hightower and “Great” Dane Laney rushed in shooting. Davidsonian photographer Brad Willshow was on hand to witness the arrest. (“I
was there strictly for the ’onian,” he says.) Holder and Jones were surgically separated at the Davidson Clinic and sent
to Mecklenburg County Jail without passing Go. They hired Nob Reigert's attorney and are sure to get off.

One big ass. No Sports.

SPORTS
16 BEND
12 RPT
8 2
2
1-6
We won't be mailing this one.
7
10
5
