By WESLEY GOLDBERRY
Arts and Living Editor

Thursday night played host to this year’s installment of the annual “welcome back” concert, a burgeoning tradition at Davidson College.
Another related tradition is that the “welcome back” concert never fails to start at least 15 minutes late. Anticipating such
a lag, most students strolled onto the premises of Richardson Field towards sundown. The weather was pristine; sunlight cascaded through
the clouds casting shadows of the scampering frisbee-ers on the far end of the lawn.

Gran Torino began playing at 8:15 p.m. to a highly polarized crowd of nearly 30 people. “There are hardly any
girls here,” noted sophomore Steve Johnston. Despite the barren crowd, the band started off quickly and loudly with a very
energetic brand of funk that transcended both “P” and “G” varieties.

Gran Torino, a nine-member musical ensemble native to Knoxville, Tenn., comprises itself of drums, trombone, saxophone, two trumpets, several guitars,
and vocals. Near the conclusion of their first song, the lead singer shouted something only slightly intelligible at the audience,
but it included the phrase “Davidson College” and can be roughly translated, “We're not gonna keep playing unless you get
up off your rears and dance.” Catering to their mandate, the growing swarm of collegians stood up and leapt about
enthusiastically, injecting some octane into this first funks up Davidson campus-wide party of the year.

The band provided both aural and visual entertainment, as the brass line variably synchronized the movement of their instruments, a
common practice of collegiate pep bands. Their sound and ensemble were compared to several 70s groups, including (among others) the
J.B.’s, James Brown’s funk era backup group. “They remind me of Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem,” sophomore Muppet enthusiast
Will White said.

By the end of their first hour, the near end of Richardson Field was crawling with a sundry assortment of
students, recent alumni, and at least one philosophy professor.

The most amusing moment of the concert came when the lead guitarist very quietly played the opening line of “Sweet
Home Alabama,” causing the students nearest the stage to leap twice as high into the air as they had all
evening long. Perhaps a bit nauseated that their Skynyrd allusion evoked more excitement in the Davidson faithful than their own
repertoire, the lead singer exclaimed, “You guys are sick!” (Sister Hazel pulled the same prank at Davidson last fall.)

Gran Torino diminished the tempo towards the middle of the set, as they often do during public performances. However, students
were both less enthralled and somewhat confused by their slower stuff. A few hundred college students stood bewildered as they
attempted to discern the proper dancing technique for such moderately tempoed music.

Gran Torino’s Bob Marley impersonator wailed out into the night on his saxophone. The band welcomed students back to Davidson
for the new academic year with its performance Thursday night at Richardson Field. A rendition of the smooth jazz tune
“Feels So Good” didn’t actually feel that good to many in the restless crowd. “If I were standing on a
ledge, this song would make me do it,” sophomore Josh Bennett confessed. Fortunately, Gran Torino picked up the pace late
in the set.concert, much to the relief of the audience, playing for well over 90 minutes in total. After the
encore, a beeline of students headed for the publicity table to notch a spot on the group’s mailing list, certifying
the band’s triumph. The 1997 “welcome back” soiree was a definite success. Maybe next year it'll even start on time.

Shine plays to a crowded 900 Room

I was initially skeptical about going to see the movie Shine. I did not want to see another low-budget, “indie”
film that poured over symbolism and imagery leaving those of us who did not choose to major in English completely
helpless. I was not sure that Shine could ever live up to its six Oscar nominations, one for Best Picture,
in the 1996 Academy Awards and the heavy praise it received from legions of critics. However, after two mesmerizing hours,
I realized that I was converted to the legions of fans and critics that praise the remarkable movie Shine.

Shine is the true life story of Australian pianist David Helfgott, who begins his study of music in his early
childhood and continues throughout his youth. His talent quickly skyrockets as he eventually begins participating in major music competitions, in
which nothing short of a first-place finish will please his father. Director Scott Hicks skillfully chronicles the life of Helfgott
from his early years as a child prodigy, to the brink of his musical stardom as a young man, into
the depths of madness as an adult, and to the triumph of his rediscovery of music as a grown man.
The structure of the movie deftly interweaves the past and the present of Helfgott’s life. One critic noted that the
structure of the movie resembles that of a piece of music by slowing down at moments and then speeding up
to a frantic climax. At no time did I find myself playing with the Indiglo feature on my watch—a would-be
sign that a movie is too long.

The cast, which includes Geoffrey Rush, Armin Mueller-Stahl, and Noah Taylor, is sensational. Rush gives a remarkable performance as the
mentally unstable adult David Helfgott, deservedly taking home an Oscar for Best Actor. He masterfully captures the frantic, rattling speech
of Helfgott, his consuming passion for music, and the great confusion through which he struggles to find love. Noah Taylor
portrays the adolescent Helfgott with similar skill, lacing the character with innocence, desperation, and humor. Also, one must not forget
Armin Mueller-Stahl who plays Helfgott’s brutal, overbearing father, Peter. He comes very close to stealing the entire movie with his
complexity; his fierce love and protection of David strays into brutality and extreme overprotection, exposing his own failures and his
constant need for love. He attempts to relive his own life through David's with disastrous consequences. Enough cannot be said
about this superb cast.

Shine is not just a movie for people who are interested in music. It is the remarkable story of the
triumph of the human spirit over extreme odds. For those of you who missed its two showings at the 900
Room, it is definitely worth a trip to Blockbuster.
