SPORTS _ _ MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997 17

Kruse’s Cubby
Year-end musings
By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Fact: Golfer Fuzzy Zoeller said this about Tiger Woods: “Tell that little boy not to serve fried chicken next year... or collard greens, or whatever the hell they serve.”
Opinion: The media did not portray Fuzzy Zoeller as a racist bastard. Fuzzy Zoeller portrayed Fuzzy Zoeller as a racist bastard.

Fact: The Hornets are down 2-0 in their best-of-five first-round series with the rough-and-tumble (or maybe just plain rough) Knicks, which resumes tonight at the Charlotte Coliseum.
Opinion: In the midst of all their childish trash-talking and lip-smacking revelry, the Knickerbockers are forgetting one thing. They play in the Eastern Conference and so do the Bulls and therefore play for the opportunity to lose to the Bulls. It’s really very anticlimactic. But then again, so is the NBA.

Fact: A team - some team - will win the Western Conference. We know this.
Opinion: Said team will lose to Jordan and those aforementioned Bulls in the Finals. (Although some would say this is not an opinion at all, but a hard fact.)

Fact: 5,076 people watched the Panthers practice Saturday afternoon at Ericsson Stadium.
Opinion: 5,076 people are in dire need of (a) something to do, and (b) a life.

Fact: Ken Griffey Jr., who had 13 home runs in 23 games going into Saturday’s action, is on pace to hit 92 homers.
Opinion: Pundits and prognosticators have long assumed that the hardest part about a potential run at Maris’ record of 61 single-season dingers would be handling the swarm of media late in the season. But the way Junior is losing baseballs so far this spring, that “late in the season” bit could become null and void.

Fact: The Observer sends Tom Sorensen all over God’s green earth to comment on athletic events.
Opinion: Whether the dateline reads New York or Tucson, Boise or Timbuktu, Sorensen continually provides sample after sample from which budding journalists can learn how not to write.

Fact: With the academic year coming to a reluctant close, we - the students of Davidson College - now enter the world of optional class days and self-scheduled exams.
Opinion: The optional class days are about as optional as breathing and the self-scheduled exams are anything but. If they were truly self-scheduled, we would be taking them mid-morning in our rooms and over a late-night bite at Denny’s. Or at least we could if we wanted to. Hence, they’d be self-scheduled.

Fact: I’m going to be Editor-in-Chief of this paper next year.
Opinion: I know, I think it’s funny too. Until August, then, I bid farewell.

Women’s tennis looks to build on 4th-place finish
By JAY CANTRELL
Staff Writer

Going into this season, women’s tennis coach Caroline Price knew that the Southern Conference title would be up for grabs. But last weekend in Greenville, S.C., the Wildcats couldn’t quite capture it, finishing fourth in the flighted tournament.

“I told them that this was the most depth and parity we had ever seen in the Southern Conference for women,” Price said. Marshall, Furman, Tennessee-Chattanooga, Georgia Southern, and Davidson all had legitimate shots at the title. During the regular season, Price’s team played close with each of those schools except Chattanooga, a match they lost 7-0. “We just wadded that up and threw it out the window,” she said of the atypical performance. The three other duals ended 4-3, with Davidson beating only GSU.

“It was a solid season,” Price continued, “But not satisfying. We fell just short in the 4-3 matches.” The Wildcats entered the tournament led by the play of last year’s Freshman-of-the-Year and all-conference performer Dana Casner. “We had a good chance going in,” she said. “There were four or five teams that were really close.” Ironically, Casner lost in the semifinals to this year’s top rookie, Karolina Glowcska of Chattanooga. Casner finished third in the No. 1 singles with a 6-3, 7-5 victory over Marshall’s Courtney Hague. In doubles, Casner and partner Amber Bradford also earned a bronze. After being down 5-2, they rallied to defeat Marshall’s top team 8-6. “We had a lot of energy on the court,” said Bradford. “It was a good

See Tennis on page 19

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Sports Editor

Maybe the baseball team was in awe of Riley Park in Charleston, S.C., the top-of-the-line facility that was completed just in time for this weekend’s double-elimination Southern Conference tournament. “It was definitely one of the nicest parks I’ve ever played in,” said Luke Goodwin. “I could probably speak for the rest of the team on that too.” Or maybe it was just the fact that sixth-seeded Davidson entered the event losers of its last six. Whatever the reason though,The boys of summer made an early exit in the Lowcountry, losing Thursday to The Citadel 18-8, and Friday to Appalachian St. 7-5. “It’s real frustrating to have it end this way,” said rightfielder Chris Quattlebaum, who has starred virtually throughout his four-year Davidson career. “We have no excuses. We hit the ball well throughout the tournament, but we needed some timely hits that we didn’t get.”

But getting hits was really not the problem Thursday night against the No. 3 Bulldogs. Six Wildcats — Ben Brown, Brad Edwards, Jeff Coker, Mike DeSimone, Anderson Marvin, and Brian Joyce — contributed two hits apiece, as Davidson mounted a 13-hit attack and tied a single-game tourney record with three triples. Down 4-2, the Wildcats stunned the 2,459 Citadel faithful by tallying three runs in the top of the fifth on RBI singles by Quattlebaum and Coker. The Citadel then bounced back with a six-spot in the bottom of the inning, taking a commanding 10-5 lead. But Davidson manufactured three runs on three hits and a pair of Bulldog errors in the seventh, narrowing the margin to 10-8. It was all Citadel from there though, as the heavy-hitting Bulldogs — who totaled 20 hits — notched four more runs in both the seventh and the eighth to register the blowout victory.

Davidson starter Jonathan Coulombe, who has been a workhorse for the squad all season, bore the brunt of The Citadel’s assault, allowing 10 runs on 11 hits in 4 1/3 innings. “He and Mort (Mordecai Stolk) have been logging a lot of innings for the past three or even four years,” Quattlebaum noted. “That may have something to do with their not having as strong a performance late in the season.” “Jon threw pretty well,” said Joyce, who went a combined 5-for-8 with two triples in the tournament. “They’ve just got solid hitters. Our bats were there and their bats were there. They just won out in the long run.”

Baseball makes early exit at conference tourney
Wildcats fall to Citadel, Appalachian, set to close season this week

Stolk went all nine innings Friday afternoon against Appalachian, and actually seemed to get stronger as the game progressed. “He started a little slow, but to his credit, he hung in there and gave us a chance,” said Quattlebaum. “He kept us in the ballgame.” But the Mountaineers wrought Stolk damage enough early, scoring three runs in both the first and fourth on their way to a 7-3 advantage. The Wildcats countered with two runs in the bottom of the sixth, but could never quite get over the hump, and Appalachian held on for its 10th straight victory over Davidson and fourth in the last week. “App. doesn’t have overwhelming pitching, but they have a few guys who can hit their spots.”

See Baseball on page 18

Men’s hoops secures shot at national champs
By MICHAEL Kruse
Sports Editor

To be the best, you’ve got to play the best. And the men’s basketball team has put itself in a position to do just that. Coach Bob McKillop confirmed Friday that the Wildcats are one of four teams scheduled to play at the Fiesta Bowl Classic Dec. 28 and 30 at the 14,428-seat McKale Center in Tucson, Ariz. Davidson is unofficially slated to play Kansas St. in the opening round and either James Madison or defending national champion Arizona in the second.

Arizona, a four-seed in last month’s NCAA tournament, knocked off three No. 1 seeds - Kansas, North Carolina, and Kentucky, incidentally the three winningest schools in the history of college basketball - on its way to the title. The ‘Cats return virtually their entire roster next year. “We want to play the biggest teams possible,” said shooting guard Mark Donnelly, whose cousin played on Arizona’s 1994 Final Four squad. “This is what we want to do,” said center Chadd Holmes. “It’s what you dream about as a kid, playing the big schools in front of big crowds.”

And the Wildcats will definitely get that opportunity next season, whether it comes in the desert or not. In addition to the Fiesta Bowl tourney, Davidson is set to battle Wake Forest Dec. 3 and UMass Jan. 22 here in Belk, and UNC Charlotte Dec. 10 at two-year-old Halton Arena and Southern Methodist Dec. 20 in Dallas. “We have the same big teams again,” said scoring extraordinaire MVP Miles David Burns, “and I think we’ll fare better against them next season.” Added Donnelly: “Now UMass and Wake have to come back to our place and we’ll be a year better.”

Final Four
Simon scans the floor. The Wildcats and the Wildcats might clash in Tucson next year.
PAC-10 Media Guide