THE DAVIDSONIAN _ OP-ED | TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1997

Those “Davidson people” Alumni to get more involved

While speaking with a church elder this summer, I mentioned that I had just finished my freshman year at Davidson College, and that I had made such close friends whom I will hold dear for the rest of my life. He knowingly responded, “Yep, those Davidson people... they have a sort of cult between alumni. They never seem to get enough of each other.” From that comment, I started to reflect on the shared experiences that Davidson students have. They share much more than a common campus; they share traditional events unique to Davidson like the Cake Race, First Night Down, Self-selection Night, and the strict Honor Code. There seems to be an unusually high ratio of Davidson students who marry each other or return to this small town to teach.

Call it a cult if you will, but something sparks a definite passion among most alumni, inspiring enormous loyalty and dedication to our school. But who exactly are these “Davidson people,” and where are they now? What do we as students really know about our school’s history and the alumni who have molded and changed our college to its present status and who continue to support our college with their overwhelming contributions of time, knowledge, energy, and financial resources?

I have been asked to be a link with the Davidson Alumni Association and the Davidsonian to develop a regular column featuring articles from a variety of distinguished alumni. This column will span such subjects as Wildcat events, college life, and interesting people from our school’s past. Hopefully, through this column, we will be better able to bridge the gap between today’s students and alumni. Patrick Henry once said, “I know no way of judging the future but by the past.” It is my belief that the sharing of knowledge, opinions, and experiences by alumni with Davidson students will help us more wisely venture toward future change and success, while appreciating our heritage.

If you are a Davidson alumnus or alumna and are interested in submitting an article for publication in the Davidsonian, please contact Reid Leavitt, P.O. Box 3967, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

After a long summer of selling shoes (no Al Bundy jokes, please) and finishing incomplete classes (reader beware - extensions are the devil’s work), it is great to be back at the old Alma Mater. I can’t say I ever really left, since my hometown is only twenty miles away, and I was over here at least once a week (those damn incompletes again), but the campus is never the same without the smiling faces of the fellow students I love that make Davidson Davidson.

A look ahead Hobbie waxes philosophic

For those of you who were not here, Freshman Orientation was hectic but fun. Hopefully, the freshmen became at least as oriented to Davidson as I became to senior year in the process. I was lucky to hear first hand that this year’s freshmen are some crazy party animals, too. So watch out! This week, you can join those crazy kids at a couple of groovy and exciting Union parties. (You knew I had a personal agenda, didn’t you?). On Thursday, Gran Torino, a phat funk band, will be performing at Richardson Field at 8 p.m. On Saturday night, Man or Astroman, a surf rock band with a twist, will play the 900 Room at 10 p.m. These fellas are awesome and pack the Tremont Music Hall — capacity 1,000 — in Charlotte every time they play! Both concerts are free to faculty, staff, and students (with your $25,000 down payment). As for our awesome movie selection, “Shine” is playing this week Wednesday and Friday. Only $2!

Welcome (back) to Davidson! As always, know that the Union is the place to be. I can’t wait to see you there!

Get Involved Call x6731 or x6640 if you're interested in writing a biweekly Opinions column.

To my fellow Yankee: a guide for the Northerner going to school in the South

So you’re a Yankee, and you’re going to school in the South. A bold move, indeed. And I say that with experience. I, too, am a so-called Yankee, hailing from Wellesley, Mass., a slice of suburbia west of Boston. By making like a bird that senses a nip in the autumn air, you’re saying you’re willing to stray hundreds of miles from home to get the best possible undergraduate education. You’re saying you want proof that the mercury can — no lie — hit 80 degrees on an early February afternoon. And what does fresh-cut grass smell like a mere three weeks into second semester? You’ll find out.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

...are saying you never want to see a snow shovel or plow again. It is, however, to say that when it does, don’t expect to see any snow removal techniques or tools thrown into immediate action — or any action at all. Rather, look for the school children to bask in the glow of a week-long holiday. And you’re saying you want to know if the much-ballyhooed concept of Southern hospitality is fact or fiction. But above all, you want to know what life is like south of the Mason-Dixon line. You’re saying you want something different. And the South is, well, different — at least, that’s one way to put it. So while I wholeheartedly applaud your decision to attend Davidson in rural — though ever-increasingly suburban — North Carolina, there are a few things you should know — tidbits of regional know-how with which you should arm yourself before blindly charging into the campus fray. With that, I offer a set of pertinent terms. Consider it a guidebook for Yankees — that’s us — living in Rebel territory:

Bojangles’. Low-budget Southern sustenance — in other words, heart-attack-on-a-plate, only worse. Even the green beans are bad for you at this fine chicken-and-biscuits establishment. A word to the wise: Don’t stuff your face with Bojangles and then play intramural hoops. Trust me, such a scenario could get ugly.

Civil War. It ended some 132 years ago, right? It’s all right there in the history books: unprecedented blood and gore, destruction and loss of life; Gettysburg, both the battle and address; Abraham Lincoln; the abolition of slavery; Reconstruction, etc. But only if you’re from New England, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, or New Jersey is that actually unequivocally accepted history. Pennsylvania and Maryland. Above it: bad. Below it: good.

Sweet tea. Along with unadulterated fat-on-a-stick, the staple of sub-Mason-Dixon cuisine — and, many would argue, a staple of the Southern way of life in general.

I offer a set of pertinent terms. Consider it a guidebook for Yankees — that’s us — living in Rebel territory. A small part of the us-versus-them battle rages on. If you don’t believe me, I pose the following set of questions: How many Ulysses S. Grant High Schools do you see in the North? Now, how many Robert E. Lee High Schools do you see down here? Point made.

Grits. A non-descript pile of something or another. Alone, they aren’t much more than a tasteless, mushy grain-like substance. But throw cheese, meat hunks, salt, pepper, and/or cubes of pure lard into the stuff — a common cooking tactic in this area, it seems — and you’ve got yourself a tasty treat.

Mason-Dixon Line. A boundary drawn between wrote in the July 4 NYT an article — dateline: Mobile, Ala. — detailing the undeniable social force that is sweet tea. Jay Grelen, a columnist for the Mobile Register, tells a story about an occasion some five years ago when he spent a hot and sweaty day picking corn in the fields outside Mobile and then — reluctant to sit down in a public place because of his grimy appearance — ordered a sweet tea to go at a local catfish restaurant. “She (the waitress) came back with a whole pitcher, sat me on the porch in a rocking chair and refused to take any money,” Grelen is quoted as saying. “I was so struck by her kindness I nearly killed myself, because I felt obligated to drink every sip. I knew then that sweet tea embodies all that is good about the South and its hospitality. Life’s too short not to enjoy, and it’s too hot not to have sweet iced tea.” And, on a more personal note, the omnipresent beverage has in two short years become my undisputed drink of choice. Without a doubt, the absolute worst part of spending my summers in the North is the absence of the irresistible nectar known as sweet tea.

Waffle House. Not only the world’s leading server of (overrated) waffles and the region’s favorite and most readily available 24-7 eatery, but a true territorial phenomenon the likes of which we — even us foreigners — can’t ignore. Its chief all-night rival — at least in Mooresville — is Denny’s. If you crave wannabe classiness and an aspect of civility, Denny’s is definitely the way to go. But if you want the greasiest of greasy spoons and a true Southern experience — not to mention a few days shaved off your life with each WaHo feast — it’s the place to be.

Y’all. Of all the Southernisms — and there are a ton of them — this one is easily the toughest to disregard as redneck gibberish. Some Northerners at the Big D pledge a no-y’all lifestyle, but such a pact is much easier said than done. In my mind, the beauty of y’all lies in its plural form. The difference between saying “you guys” and “y’all” is relatively inconsequential. But the disparity in the time it takes to say “the things that belong to you guys” and “y’all’s”, well, that’s pretty darn significant. Granted, phrases like “daggum,” “cotton-pickin’,” and “Oh my gravy” are tough to swallow, but — for simplicity’s sake, if nothing else — “y’all” is tough to beat. Plus, “all of y’all” is just plain fun to say, and I don’t care where you’re from.

Yankee. Despite what you may believe, not a baseball player from New York who wears pinstripes and plays in The House That Ruth Built. Instead, the term refers to those people unfortunate enough to have been born, grown up, or ever been in any way associated with the tundra-like land north of the Mason-Dixon line. Note: Just because we’re Yankees doesn’t mean our geographical opposites are Rebels. Not at all. We're Yankees. They’re them.