THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dugan ready to go

By Michael J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

Quarterback Tommy Dugan finally has the green light. After two seasons of starting most of the time, but not all of the time, the redshirt junior—a tremendous athlete who has had marked flashes of brilliance in his up-and-down Davidson career—heads into Saturday’s season opener against Maryville at Richardson Field as coach Tim Landis’ definitive No. 1.

“Tom’s the starter,” the fifth-year coach said last month during training camp. “He deserves to come into camp as the starter.”

Matt Strader and Shaun Tyrance represent more-than-capable relief if needed, but, for now at least, the Wildcat quarterbacking duties are Dugan’s to lose.

“This is the first year he (Landis) has ever given that to me,” Dugan said this week. “This year, he’s let me know from the beginning that I was No. 1, and I think that’s helped me a lot.”

As did his stretch-run performance last season. Over the final three games in 1996, the 6-foot-3, 195-pound Gaithersburg, Md., native compiled 897 yards of total offense, including 623 through the air on 41-of-78 passing efficiency. Not coincidentally, all three contests were Davidson wins, as the Wildcats posted their first winning season since 1993 and gained momentum heading into this, the school’s 100th year of intercollegiate football.

“A lot of people look at it that way that I had a strong performance in the last three games—but it was more like the offense was just clicking, which made things work for me,” Dugan explained. “The line was blocking right, the defenses were keyed in on the running backs, and they just let me run.”

And run he did, picking up 274 yards on just 40 carries—good for a hefty 6.8 yards an attempt. Overall, Dugan led the squad in total offense last season with 1,791 yards, 1,456 of which came via the pass. With that performance and 2,391 career yards passing, he now stands as the 10th-most prolific passer in Davidson history.

With Dugan at the helm, the Wildcats’ offense is talented, experienced—a crucial entity the team has often lacked in the past few years—and ready to pick up where it left off last November.

“All the key players are back,” Dugan said. “We lost John Cowan, but (offensive tackle) Jamel (Wynn) definitely replaces him. We’ve got three great tailbacks and some really good receivers and then Ferguson at fullback.”

Indeed, the Wildcats will score their fair share of points this fall, a realization that has heightened expectations, motivating the fans. But for me, and I think for a lot of the guys on the team, we just want to win football games. The focus is on continuing to win and to get better.of both players and fans heading into this already special season. That’s the way I’m looking at it. “To be honest, I try not to focus on the 100th anniversary,” Dugan said. “That seems to be what’s going on.”

By Jay CANTRELL

Volleyball loses three at Georgetown

And the competition didn’t get any easier for the Wildcats. They dropped the third and final game of the tournament to Florida Atlantic 15-8, 15-8, 15-9.

Sports Editor

The volleyball team visited the nation’s capital this weekend, but they were not treated with much hospitality on the court. The Wildcats lost to Georgetown, DePaul, and Florida Atlantic to fall to 2-4 on the year. Georgetown, the host school, swept Davidson 15-11, 15-6, 15-9 in the opening game at McDonough Arena. The Wildcats were led by sophomore Ginny Quis, who had 10 kills and 8 digs.

The best chance for a win came in the second game of the tourney, as Gina Lawrence led the charge against DePaul. Lawrence, the sophomore sensation from Silver Lake, Ohio, pounded out 18 kills while hitting .450. Defensively, she had seven digs but couldn’t stop DePaul from taking the contest 15-10, 19-17, 8-15, 15-5.

Brooke Bentley, a freshman from St. John’s School in Houston, Texas, had six kills for Davidson. “We did not play as well as I had hoped, but there were some bright spots,” said head coach Lisa Marston in a press release. “We had a lot of unforced errors, but they are things that we can work on and improve.”

That improvement will be needed soon, as the Wildcats begin conference play at Furman Wednesday. The Paladins finished third in the league last season. But Davidson will have the revenge motive working for them. Last season, the Paladins swept all three regular season games against the Wildcats and then ousted them from the Southern Conference tournament in the first round.

There’s no reason we shouldn’t pick up where we left off. All the key factors are there.

We’re looking for people who look at this glass and say: “There’s gotta be other glasses of water.” We need people capable of going beyond half-full or half-empty thinking. People who see subtleties. Who are quite frankly bored by easy answers and off-the-shelf solutions. People who are constantly challenging their own thinking and are thirsty for new ideas and knowledge. You’ll have a degree from a top school. Getting a job won’t really be a challenge for you. Andersen Consulting will actively recruit on campus this fall. Watch the campus paper and ask the Career Development Center for our campus dates.

We are looking for qualified people of all majors to apply technology to their business. We implement solutions to help our clients change. Are you the person we’re talking about? The kind of person with an unquenchable desire for challenge and professional growth? Are you interested in the ever-changing roles on unique projects with top worldwide companies? We are the leader in helping Andersen Consulting. Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunity employer.