THE DAVIDSONIAN

JOHN KUYKENDALL

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

ROBERT WILLIAMS
Dean of Faculty, Vice President of Academic Affairs, and Professor of History

HOW DOES A LEADER in this age of hyperbole get along in a life without a curriculum vitae? Without biodata? Without a resume? Without a paper trail? Amazingly, John Kuykendall — who needs no introduction — also needs no c.v. His is a life lived in humility for the cause of servanthood — service to God, his church, his family, and additional resources for Davidson College. Few people (except Denise Howard and Missy) know how full his calendar is, how often and how far he travels, and at what cost to his personal and family life. For thirteen years he has lived Davidson College. The result is $160 million for Davidson. The fundraising method is simple: John Kuykendall simply represents the very best virtues of the college and its Statement of Purpose. The man was never trained to raise funds. You meet him just once and you want to help his cause forever. But don’t wait for the c.v.

John Kuykendall is above all a teacher and a leader. Year after year he persists in teaching students in the classroom that he cannot resist in spite of the schedule he cannot control. He has spent his life in the calling of higher education. He is a teacher and a scholar first, and an administrator second. He has the highest academic credentials, the respect of the Faculty, and the admiration and love of all those who know him. He defends tenure as the essential bulwark of academic freedom against the vagaries of trustee moods, political winds, and culture wars. He teaches by example and listens to all with an open mind. This would not be on his c.v. — even if there were one.

Being a college president is an incredible balancing act in an environment of many constituencies. One must have the heart of a lion, the politics of a fox, the diligence of a beaver, the wisdom of an owl, and the speed of a greyhound. If the Dean of Faculty herds cats, the President of the College manages a zoo. To most people on this campus he is “Dr. Kuykendall,” or “Captain Kirk,” or simply “John,” and we are all his friends. We know the man through his life and daily presence and influence in our lives, not his record in the file. Not his c.v. He has none.

I came to Davidson because I felt at home in a liberal arts college and because I wanted to work with John Kuykendall. Little did I know that on that first February 1986 meeting where we made waffles together at Vail Commons (he spilled as much batter as I did) that I would come not simply to admire him as an academic leader, but to love him as a brother. That morning we dreamed dreams for Davidson together. Many have become reality. But not on his c.v. I once teased the President about him being a “mendicant flier,” an airborne churchman ever in search of additional resources for Davidson College. Few people (except Denise Howard and Missy) know how full his calendar is, how often and how far he travels, and at what cost to his personal and family life. For thirteen years he has lived Davidson College. The result is $160 million for Davidson. The fundraising method is simple: John Kuykendall simply represents the very best virtues of the college and its Statement of Purpose. The man was never trained to raise funds. You meet him just once and you want to help his cause forever. But don’t wait for the c.v.

WARREN BUFORD
Former President of the SGA, Class of 1997

IT IS JUST AN ACCEPTED FACT that when a basketball game nears a point when one team so dominates the other that the ending is a foregone conclusion, fans leave. So when Wildcat fans, confident of doing their job to help the Wildcats crush the opponent, began filing out of Baker on that December night, months ago, few of us who stayed even noticed. We did take notice, however, of Davidson’s president, John Kuykendall, sitting as he had all game in his regular seat. Of course he came over and of course our crew still cussed. Of course he cheered with us, and clapped when we clapped, and shouted as we did, “Go Cats!”. And of course, on this occasion— just like the times when he teaches hisReligion class, or when he advises freshmen, or when he counsels students after a crisis in their lives, or when he speaks to student leaders, student athletes, and incoming freshmen, or when he eats barbecue with the community, or when he attends a Davidson student’s funeral. And as those of us Phi Delts, each of whom cherished the fact that Kuykendall was one of ours, watched the minutes tick away, whispers of speculation surfaced as to whether or not we could get Dr. Kuykendall to come and join us to cheer for another Phi Delt, “Stec,” to enter the game. Some said, “No, don’t even ask,” while others said, “Sure, but can we still cuss?” and those more confident, “Yes, he’ll come—he is one of us!” But regardless of our guess, each of us would have gladly sacrificed our seat for him to join us. The mystery was short-lived. Proud to have him join us as he was to be there. That one gesture, on that December evening, represents thirteen years of goodwill demonstrated by John Kuykendall for Davidson students. But I have come to admire him for more than just his genuine desire and willingness to be a friend and supporter of Davidson students. Other students might agree that his goodness or his “value” to our Davidson experience extends beyond any deliberate action or speech he makes. We know and accept that the Davidson student is expected to excel in everything he or she does; to respect and tolerate others; to honor and trust others; to serve others; to have the confidence to lead others; to be kind, loyal, and honest; and to challenge one another to be all of the above and more. No wonder, then, that we look up to Dr. Kuykendall with such admiration. He embodies those values for which we strive. He is all that we ought to be. I’m glad the Wildcats won on that night in December and during the past twelve years, and I’m thankful to have been a part of that victory. Davidson’s mission is to educate students widely and humanely for service in the world. John Kuykendall embodies that mission. John has modestly said that the secret to his success at Davidson is, to paraphrase a famous baseball pitcher, his “fast outfield.” I am honored to have been in the outfield for eleven years and to continue to be a member of this Faculty—who are outstanding in their own fields. The great existential philosopher Woody Allen once said that life is terminal. So is John Kuykendall’s presidency. We will not see his like again. Nor his c.v. But his example of humility and service is forever. Don’t forget! May 6 is JWK day! At 4:00, Dr. Kuykendall will give a Presidential address, his last public lecture, in Belk Arena. Open to all, free of charge. Immediately following will be a staff, faculty, and student tribute to him. Then, free BBQ for everyone in Belk Arena!