DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

Marshall, Burns down Paladins
By Dante L. Motz
Staff Writer

GREENVILLE, S.C., Feb. 15 - In a game that was played in a high school-like atmosphere Saturday night at the
Lay Physical Activities Center, the men’s basketball team routed Furman to solidify its hold on second place in the Southern
Conference’s North Division.

With the construction of a new on-campus arena underway, the Paladins have been forced to play their home contests in
a 1,200-seat bandbox of a gym this season. As if that was not enough, the scoreboard malfunctioned five seconds into
the game, leaving the referees to rely on a stopwatch to keep time and a hand-held operator to keep score.

“Both teams face the same kind of adversity that this atmosphere created,” said coach Bob McKillop. “This is not the
kind of thing that is easy to deal with.”

The one other thing that the Wildcats (15-9, 8-4 SC) had to deal with was the prospect of an extra-inspired
Furman squad. It was the Paladins’ first outing since coach Joe Cantafio announced his resignation, and Davidson expected that to
provide an emotional lift for Furman (10-14, 4-8 SC).

“It was another piece of the puzzle that we had to overcome,” said McKillop. “I thought our guys handled it
very admirably.”

That they did. Leading scorers Mark Donnelly and Narcisse Ewodo tallied just six points apiece, but the Wildcats more than
compensated with strong interior play. Stephen Marshall poured in a career-best 16 points on 8-of-9 shooting and grabbed a game-high
six rebounds. Chadd Holmes scored 14 points and Landry Kosmalski added 13. And David Burns again picked up the slack
from the perimeter, scoring 15 in 11 minutes. Eleven of those came in the last 2:30 of the first half,
as he sparked a 15-2 run that broke a 30-30 tie and gave the Wildcats a 45-32 lead at the
break.

“The whole game was David Burns at the end of the half,” said Cantafio.

The Wildcats continued the pressure in the second half. A Billy Armstrong three-point play gave Davidson a 62-40 lead with
12 minutes to play. Davidson has now won four in a row - their longest streak of the season -
and seem to be getting hot at just the right time.

“I think our defense in the second half was as good as it’s ever been for a period of about
seven or eight minutes,” said McKillop. “And our offensive precision coming off that defense was like surgery.

“We’re starting to do some things with a great passion. We’re really clicking offensively and defensively, and we’re positioning ourselves
the way we had hoped to when we set out back on Oct. 15.”

Wildcats gunning for victory No. 1,000 tonight
By Michael Kruse
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C. - The Wildcats’ next win will mark the program’s 1,000th all-time victory, no small accomplishment according to coach
Bob McKillop.

“That’s going to be very special for us to be part of No. 1,000,” he said. “I’m certainly going to
let our players know that they have a chance to be part of history.”

The win will also be McKillop’s 116th, which puts him third on Davidson’s all-time list behind the legendary Lefty Driesell
(176) and Norman Shepard (170).

Cisco ailing
A combination of cold and flu symptoms and effects of having had a tooth lifted hindered Narcisse Ewodo at Furman.
The senior star, who did not practice all week, was held to six points, three rebounds, and three steals in
29 minutes, only the third time this season he has not scored in double figures.

“He didn’t partake in the shootaround today. We weren’t even really sure he was going to play up until game
time,” explained McKillop.After Saturday’s 16-point victory, “So credit Narcisse with great courage to come out here and play. He’s barely
able to move right.” Ewodo had to be helped off the court following the game but should be available for
Monday night’s North Division showdown with VMI in Lexington, Va. “He’ll be there,” said McKillop. “Cisco’s a survivor.”

Paladin coach Cantafio bids farewell

Furman third-year head coach Joe Cantafio announced his resignation on Thursday. The move will take effect at the season’s end.
Apparently, it took watching his 13-year-old daughter’s dance recital for Cantafio to realize that coaching was no longer for him.
“You can’t stay in this business forever,” he said Saturday. “I think it was time I let someone else do
it because I was just getting tired and worn out.

“When you have children and you wake up and they’re gone, I don’t want that to happen to me. I’m
just going to spend time with my children and watch them do some things,” added Cantafio, who also has an
eight-year-old son. His overall 109-195 collegiate head coaching record at VMI and Furman may have helped make the decision a
little easier, although Cantafio claims he was not pushed out. He will look into future positions in athletic administration, sales,
and maybe television.

Scoreboard fiasco

The scoreboard and clock at Furman’s makeshift arena malfunctioned in the first half, delaying the game 15 minutes and causing
the entire initial period to be played church league-style—with a stopwatch and flip cards to keep score. The Paladins are
playing their home games this season in the 1,200-seat Lay Physical Activities Center while a new on-campus 5,000-seat facility is
being built. The cramped confines, lack of seating, extraordinary number of random and multi-colored lines on the floor, poor acoustics,
and Spartan locker room facilities give Furman’s temporary home a distinct high school feel, but Saturday night’s mechanical debacle set
new standards.

“I thought the refs were just outstanding in game management and I thought the Furman people did an outstanding job
of handling a very difficult situation,” McKillop said. “It’s kind of embarrassing,” said Cantafio. “Here we have a Division I
game and you don’t have a clock. There are so many lines, you can not only play checkers and chess
on this floor, you can also play Parcheesi.”

Burns sizzling

In the seven games since the Citadel contest Jan. 27 in Charleston, S.C., swingman David Burns has been an offensive
machine off the bench, pouring in 87 points in 93 minutes. His scoring spree has coincided with much improved defense
and rebounding, as evidenced by Burns’ career-high 6 boards against ETSU.

“Here we have Mark struggling and we’re calling David’s number,” said McKillop after the Furman game. “It’s rare that you
call a jump-shooting number for someone other than Mark when he’s in the game. That’s the kind of confidence this
team has in David Burns.”

Freshman guard Davor Halbauer posted a career effort vs. ETSU, logging a career-high 18 points, five boards, and three assists
in a team-high 25 minutes. The Croatia native has struggled with his defense at times throughout the year but made
great strides in that respect on Monday.

“I have never had any problems whatsoever with Davor’s ability to handle the basketball and score,” noted McKillop. “He’s as
good as anyone in our program. In fact, he’s probably the most creative offensive player we have. But Davor has
really worked hard to learn to play defense.

“Tonight was his greatest performance as a defensive player at Davidson. It’s ironic that it was also his greatest performance
as an offensive player.”

Stephen Marshall set career bests in points and assists in Saturday’s affair, notching 16 and two. The 6-8 rookie post
player shot 8-for-9 from the floor in 24 minutes.
