OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997

Today, January 27, 1996, is Black Monday. Since I was abroad last semester I only recently learned about it and
why it is taking place. The protest is a response to the exoneration of Michael Marlow, a white police officer,
who shot James Willie Cooper, a 19-year-old black man, during a traffic stop. Marlow shot the unarmed Cooper because he
believed Cooper was reaching for a gun. A five-man review board made up of police officers determined that Marlow did
not violate departmental procedures and that his use of deadly force was justified. Some community leaders were dismayed with the
decision and called for a civilian review board to investigate future similar cases. In light of this decision and the
further deteriorating relations between the police and the black community, black leaders decided to hold Black Monday to demonstrate the
black community’s unhappiness with the present situation.

During Black Monday, the entire black community was to boycott all white businesses and patronize only those businesses owned by
other blacks. And those who could were to stay home from work or school. I became aware of Black Monday
during a discussion last Tuesday in my Anthropology 205 class. My first reaction was that of indignation. It seemed like
a case of reverse discrimination. I didn’t understand how a boycott would improve relations between people and police. I also
believed that this boycott might only widen the gap. But as the discussion continued, my views changed. My professor, Dr.
Nancy Fairley, referred to the Montgomery bus boycott led by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. as a similar type of
demonstration. I realized that Black Monday would definitely draw attention to the problem. It would help people to understand better
the feelings of the black community. Black Monday would also help black solidarity. One of the students in the class
said that in order for the black community to rise up and defeat the problems of racism and poor relations
with the police, the black community must first join together. She believed that Black Monday was an excellent demonstration.

Ever notice how students here always look for the perfect room in Chambers to take their exam in during finals
week? They poke their heads in and out of a bunch of rooms as if hoping to find that “special”
one in which the Buddha is sitting in the center of the third aisle huddled in a state of meditational
repose. Then the ever-diligent room hunter would step back with a glitter in his or her eyes. These fanatical room-seekers
are dangerous creatures come exam time, prone to fly off the handle at even the tiniest of provocations. They’re also
extremely savvy creatures and have been known to set up smoke screens at the front door of their “special” rooms
to shoo away any would-be room sharers. Should anyone approach their “little domicile” in the midst of their taking an
exam, they characteristically fly into a rage and give voice to a litany of (largely incoherent) monosyllabic prattle, of which
the only translatable part is “My room! My room! Bam Bam! Bam Bam!”

And what’s the story with these new members of E.H. Little’s otherwise stellar library staff... Here I am down in
the basement (or more fondly, “the morgue”) trying to put in some early morning studying and these two female librarians
are standing around giggling over the fact that Playboy magazine is included among the library’s microfilm archives. After a few
minutes of listening to their infantile banter, my concentration was taxed beyond all limits, and so I decided I must
confront the two giggling ninnies.

Now at Princeton University they have the Nude Olympics on the night of the first snowfall each year. Davidson has
no such tradition. Seeing as there’s nothing worse than a school with an inferiority complex, I say let’s one-up that
Ivy League institution up north: let’s declare February as Nude Olympics Month here at Davidson and make clothing optional for
all.0 Ble or Nude Olympics Month here at hopelessly conservative Davidson and make clothing optional for all classes. Be forewarned,
though, the Computer Center’s move from Main Street to the basement of Belk? What ambiance! It’s so invigorating to feel
like you’re typing up your term paper amid the fiery furnaces of hell. I actually had to throw a disclaimer
on my history take-home essay after I found myself concluding it with the statement, “And furthermore Jimmy Carter was a
depraved, egomaniac with no redeemable characteristics whatsoever... so put that in your pipe and smoke it.” But what’s really got
me peeved about the Computer Center’s move is that they’ve taken away my legendary 200-yard (4:59 p.m.) sprints from Main
Street to Chambers to turn in papers due by 5 p.m. My times on some of those shuttle runs would’ve
embarrassed Michael Johnson.

“Ma’am,” I addressed one of them, “I’ll have you know that the Great Ones study down here. You’re disturbing the
Great Ones. Incidentally, ma’am, everyone already knows that the best pornography is found in L’espresso magazine (God bless the Germans!)
which is, after all, much more readily accessible than Playboy. I mean, honestly, ladies, who’s really gonna go through all
the trouble of rigging up Playboy on the microfilm machine when they can easily grab a L’espresso off the back
racks?”

This got me to thinking about nudity’s place in the world of academia. Former Opinions editor Jeff Kent ’96 wrote
an article last year calling for more spontaneous nudity on campus. I think his suggestion was indeed exemplary but in
need of a little fine-tuning.

Another student agreed with her and remarked that it shouldn’t only be for one day but continue indefinitely until the
problem is rectified. I found this very logical. Revenues of businesses would surely decline and the businessmen would wake up
and realize something was wrong. Then they would fight alongside the black community for changes to occur. The increased support
for black businesses would also increase the influence of these businesses in the political sphere.

Undoubtedly, someone will clamor that Black Monday is unfair. Why should white businesses be hurt when the problem is with
the police? I would respond that boycotting businesses is a much more effective demonstration than picketing in front of the
police station or town hall. I agree that boycotting businesses unfairly causes harm, but when you look at the problem
of racism, drastic measures are needed in order to better this situation.

BUGS ‘cause THEY ARE BUGS. LIFE IN HELL GROWING UP, I WORRIED A LOT ABOUT BUGS. A LOT OF GIRLS
DON’T LIKE BUGS BECAUSE THEY LOOK AND EAT LIKE BIG BUGS. THEY’RE SCARED OF GETTING EATEN BY OTHER BUGS. AND
I WORRIED ABOUT GETTING SQUASHED. BUT MY FAVORITE KIND OF BUG IS THE LONG GREEN ONE. THEY GET HER FOOD
AND NURSE HER. THEY GET SUGAR AND STUFF. SEE, BUT IT WAS COOL TOO. IT WAS BAD FOR THE SPIDER
AND GOOD FOR ANOTHER BUG. THEY SAY IF YOU SEE A BUG IT’S SILVERFISH, AND YOU SEE GOOD LUCK. NOT
FIRST, BUT THEY’RE NOT TAME. ONE TIME I SAW A LADYBUG AND I GOT REALLY SCARED. I GOT THIS ONE
TWICE BY WILL. ACTUALLY, IT FELT LIKE IT STUNG TWICE BECAUSE IT WAS ALONG A LINE. I THINK WE SHOULD
LEAVE BUGS ALONE IN THEIR PRIVACY. DON’T LOOK LIKE THIS AND DON’T DIG. NATURE KNOWS.

Write for Opinions
We want to know what you’re thinking! Opinions is seeking new writers, especially freshmen and sophomores. Articles can be funny
or serious, satirical or whimsical, on virtually any topic they’ll let us print. Please submit your articles in Macintosh WordPerfect
format by Wednesday to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the College Union. Call Kristen or David at
x2148 and be a voice for change!
