8 _. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Apparently, after last week’s issue came out, several people told me that the coverage of Ryan Gist’s trial was “sensational.” Considering we reproduced a transcript of the entire trial so that people could have a completely objective source from which to form their own opinions, I disagree. Actually, there was something very sensational about last week’s events, but it had to do with the trial itself, not our coverage. I hope people were shocked by the trial’s actual proceedings. The only thing missing was the kangaroo. The flags and the hymn-chanting were not to blame. Considering the ludicrous charges against Gist in the first place, such antics were appropriate.

What I found most appalling was the procedure the trial followed. First, who really knows how the law should be applied or tried in such matters? The whole debate about whether a Solicitor-asked question that was “leading” or not exemplifies this. The Solicitor merely changed a question from “Did you know...,” which I guess is “leading” — seeing as it wasn’t allowed — to “Were you aware...,” which I guess is not “leading” — since it was allowed. It was even stranger that students on the Council were allowed to ask questions. What jury is allowed to interrogate the defendant? I do not think any jury in America has such ability. What does it say about the efforts of the Solicitors and the Defense Advisors if the jury can just chime in right afterwards? The prospects for a miscarriage of justice are large as long as the Council has this right. A councilperson might have a pre-conceived notion about what they believe is the appropriate outcome, and use this power to direct the proceedings in such a direction. It could happen. Did you ever think a student would be tried for patriotically taking down a flag hung improperly?

For example, one councilperson asked if Gist was intoxicated. This should not be allowed. The defendant should only be prosecuted by the Solicitors, not the judges or jury. If Gist was indeed intoxicated, the responsibility lies on the Solicitors to ask it, not on the jury. A system where both the prosecution and the jury can prosecute the defendant borders on double jeopardy. It creates a guilty-until-proven-innocent environment. The procedure needs to change before someone else with a weak case against them gets punished by a system which puts the burden of proof on the defendant and then lets Solicitors, as well as the jurors, prosecute him.

Next, as someone asked during the question session, no one even checks to see if the jury was “contaminated” by what they knew about the case before the actual trial. A jury that is tainted or influenced by any other events, save for the actual trial, again creates the possibility of the defendant receiving an unfair trial. Perhaps councilpeople are instructed to abstain from reading about possible trials or listening to gossip about someone who they might be judging. There could even be a precursory check to see if those councilpeople serving on a certain trial did not hear too much about the case beforehand.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997

Time to take a closer look at the Honor Council

Clearly, there are serious problems with the way Honor Code and/or Code of Responsibility trials are run. I believe that could be part of the reason why almost half of the 400 students who participated in the Davidsonian poll have had their “faith lessened” in the honor system. However, there are ways to fix the problems.

Finally, I am worried about what could happen if someone gets elected onto the Honor Council that simply is not acting professionally or fairly. We should not worry about the councilpeople at Gist’s trial, but what if someone else got elected that did not behave as they did? There is no accountability to make sure the student body is actually getting what they wanted in selecting the representatives. It might even be more fair to have six randomly selected people from the College faculty, staff, and student body.

Call your SGA representative if the trial procedure bothered you as much as it did me. Luckily, Gist’s decision was correct, though it scared me that it took some two hours to decide that. We need to change this system before it hurts someone else whose circumstances might be less clear — but just as unworthy of sanctions — as Gist’s.

Technology was never a dominant force in my household. The introduction of the microwave was a landmark occasion, and rotary phones were the norm up until a few years ago. Even today I find myself disenchanted with all of the advances designed to make life easier. College has presented me with yet another form of technology: e-mail. Quick, cheap, and easy are the words that immediately come to mind. E-mail becomes a reality when that first phone bill rolls in. Some quickly become addicted, and for many, it becomes the only way to stay in touch. I must admit, there appear to be few potholes in the information superhighway.

Friends gave me little choice. So about my experience has been unique, though many people assure me that Davidson’s system leaves a lot to be desired. But this experience has not shaped my view, it has simply solidified it. When I read my messages, I am anything but thrilled. E-mail is essentially a high-caliber gun for shooting the breeze. I feel numb as I scan the words. Anyone who has ever torn into an actual envelope and read the words of a friend or loved one and truly appreciated them would know the feeling.A week ago I decided I would ‘get connected,’ or log on, or whatever it’s called. That night was the beginning of a relationship with the computer based on mutual hatred. It seemed as though the computer could detect my apprehension. Ever since, I have been deprived of the ease and efficiency which supposedly characterize this grand system. The computer is forever terminating, erasing, re-coding, or eliminating my efforts to communicate. All who have witnessed my feeble attempts to e-mail have been baffled by the numerous warnings and threats which appear on my screen. It mystifies me. I e-mail — or at least attempt to e-mail — less than anyone I know. Yet I’m sure that I am unsurprised. E-mail will keep you in touch, but it will never allow you to truly connect with another person. Human expression is one of the oldest struggles we know, and e-mail signals a surrender, a stalemate at best. I am not calling for a complete abandonment of e-mail, but rather a contemplation. Take time to write letters — or anything, for that matter. Show that what you feel is worth more than a few minutes spent fingering the keyboard. Respond to a society that has become more concerned with the media through which we communicate rather than the thoughts and ideas within.

College: A concentrated existence

Here at Davidson, and probably at all colleges, there is a remarkable phenomenon of intensity and concentration. Everything happens faster and is more accessible than at any time in life. High school life brings with it a separation of each of our activities, pursuits, and goals. Everything happens in a discrete location with plans made accordingly. In college, on the other hand, everything becomes grouped and distinctions are blurred. German classes meet in the same room as philosophy classes. Meetings on far-ranging and diverse topics occur in the same location with only quick breaks between subject and attendance changes. Nothing is far away, and access is granted to all. In high school, to become involved in an activity was always somewhat of an undertaking. You had to reserve not only the time for the meeting in your schedule but also plan for the monumental task of returning to school once you have left for the day. This is never an issue in higher education. For better or worse, you almost never leave college while you’re there. College offers a wide selection of activities with no preconceived notions of who should belong to different groups or participate in different activities. I am constantly amazed at all of the skills that the people on my hall possess. No one is a purely one-dimensional person — everyone has multiple talents and interests, all of which they utilize to the fullest. This seed-bed of talent and experience naturally fosters a community in which learning is done from one’s peers. While this situation is present in many different areas of life, it realizes its full potential in the residential college setting. Living in close proximity to fellow students and classmates accelerates everything that would normally occur among the members of a group. Friendship is the most notable example which comes to mind. The people with whom I have become friends since arriving here are most likely the people with whom I would have become friends in another setting. Living together and seeing them on a daily and almost 24-hour basis — the time that we started doing this none of us had known each other for more than two weeks, but we laughed and talked together as if we had known each other for years. Maybe college friends truly are different from other friends. Seeing each other so often, there is a greater chance for experiences to occur which provide memories for all involved. One such experience occurred during a little one-on-one. Someone — I think that it was me — was trying to block a lay-up and got a little too close to the hoop. My ensuing wild-arm-flail — or block attempt in basketball terms — snapped the rim from the wall and stunned us all. My neighbor was infinitely gracious to me after my destructive act. He again displayed equanimity when, while in the process of trying to glue the rim back together, I managed instead to super-glue it to his wall. These events, after only two weeks, will live in infamy in our minds. But this commonality of shared experience seems to end when people step through the classroom door. The infrequency with which college classes meet does not allow close ties to be forged with classmates. You are like visiting scholars attending a conference, familiar with each other for only two or three hours a week. In high school, the basis of friendship was having classes with people. While this is lost to some degree in college, there are many other arenas in which to cultivate friendship. Hopefully, I will be able to cultivate these friendships in the future with a slightly less destructive undercurrent.