(2. THE DAVIDSONIAN WS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

The next capital Rien

Final plans made for Vagt’s inauguration

At 11 a.m., Oct. 3, Robert Vagt will be inaugurated as the next President of Davidson College. On Oct. 2, Vagt and many Trustees will participate in a dinner barbecue with students outside the Commons.

Plans for new Union take priority

The project will be the new Union, said Dean of Students Tom Shandley. If all goes well, an architect will be picked by November, and the building will be done by 2000. Plans include a new building attached to Johnston Gym and renovation of the current building.

Deciphering SGA committees and councils

ANN CULP
Staff Writer

CCRL, ITS, SEC, ATC, SAC. One can almost get lost in the SGA’s ABCs. With eight committees, six councils, three student advisory councils, eight faculty committees, four College Advisory Councils, and the Council on Campus and Religious Life, it’s no wonder the Student Government Association can be confusing. The secret to making all those agencies work is the people who make up each acronym. Even with a fear of campaigning, one can still be involved with the SGA. Here’s a key to the non-elected SGA that might come in handy next time representatives are needed. For more information, please call the contact person in parentheses.

Committees

Building Services and Facilities reviews policies of Physical Plant office and works to improve and maintain Davidson’s campus. (Kevin Smith and Lee Burnett)

Charters and Bylaws receives and proposes amendments to the Davidson College Constitution and SGA Bylaws. It also receives applications for charters and reports them to the Senate with recommendations. (Liz Boehmler)

Consumer Protection evaluates services and products offered to students and recommends needed changes. (Whitney Frazier)

Polling and Response surveys students, sponsors events that bring students and senators together, and presents reports of survey responses to the Senate. (Sandy Neblett)

Rides provides transportation to and from the airport for Davidson students during holiday recesses and organizes Vamanos Van. (Chris Tuttle and Ed Winant)

Roundtable coordinates discussion dinners on campus issues and sponsors events promoting student, faculty, and staff relations. (Ainsley Natta and Joe Hayworth)

Solidarity works to provide a sense of solidarity among all members of the College community. (Kurt Fesenmyer and Yu-Jay Harris)

Town Liaison links students and the town government of Davidson by representing students at meetings of the Town Council and Downtown Davidson Organization. (Liz Boehmler and Julie Chevalier)

Trustee Contact maintains written and oral contact with the Trustees and relays student viewpoints and ideas to the Trustees on pertinent issues. (Heather Brown)

(The above committees are open to all students. Sign-ups take place at the beginning of each semester.)

Councils

Activities Tax Council allocates among student organizations the Campus Organizations Tax collected by the College as part of the comprehensive fee. There are five ATC members appointed by the Senate from the student body through an interview process. Two of these appointees must be SGA members. (Patricia Evans)

Athletics Council addresses student and Athletic Department concerns regarding policies, schedules, and school spirit. One person from each Patterson Court house, four of Independent status nominated by the Head Independent Senator, and four freshmen appointed by the Council Chairs are members of the Athletics Council. (Dan Guill and Kate Pittenger)

Council on Academic Affairs works with the Registrar and Dean of Faculty on proposed academic changes, such as the school calendar, class schedules, and requirements. There are four members of the student body on this council. (Naresh Nagella and Chris Martin)

Council on Information and Technological Affairs works with administration on matters that directly impact students such as dorm web.

See SGA Groups on page 5

Town police officer suspended

By JESSICA GOODSON
News Editor

Sergeant Mark Swaney of the Town of DavidsonPolice Department fired his weapon into an occupied home on Aug. 21 in Statesville. Swaney was off-duty at a pool party when the shots were fired. Swaney maintains that he fired his gun at a shed, inadvertently hitting a nearby home when the bullet ricocheted. No one in the house was injured.

Three other Davidson officers were also at the party when the gun went off. Neighbors claim that the party was not “rowdy,” and Swaney apologized to the family immediately afterward. Davidson Police Chief Hank McKernan asserts that Swaney is a good police officer with no record of prior offenses. “I have no reason to think it wasn’t an accident,” McKernan told the Davidsonian. Swaney still faces charges for firing into an occupied dwelling—a class E felony—and is currently under suspension. His first court date is set for Oct. 6. According to Lexington District Attorney Eugene Morris, if Swaney is convicted, he is subject to a maximum penalty of 98 months in prison. His actual punishment is dependent on several other factors, including his record level within the structure, which the district attorney could not disclose. In addition, he will lose certification as a law enforcer anywhere in the United States.

Town of Davidson police officers have the same jurisdiction over the College because it lies within the town limits, but do not actively patrol the campus.

### Strange man wanders campus, verbally accosts student in Union

By Scott GEIGER
Staff Writer

It’s official. Davidson has a campus freak. Police reports identify him as a 5-foot-8 Caucasian in his late 20s with curly brown hair. He has been spotted meandering around Davidson and possibly the nearby towns in brogans, baggy shorts, and a tattered Coppertone T-shirt.

“He kept looking back at me and his eyes were darting back and forth suspiciously,” said Jessica Goodson, who has had first-hand experience with the campus psychotic. In recent weeks, he has started to exceed eccentricity and become a legitimate threat to the safety of students, faculty, staff, and townspeople.

Around noon on Aug. 27, the man entered the Town of Davidson Public Library. A librarian, who had dealt with him before, asked him to leave; he responded by shouting and calling her “the Anti-Christ.” Apparently, he had been attempting to use the library’s computer services at the time of his ejection. About an hour later, he arrived at the Union Café. Manager Julie Mills noticed the stranger, saying that he was “talking out of his head.” He pointed out to one of the register workers that the lines would move much quicker if they had computers.

Most importantly and most troubling is the fact that, for no apparent reason, the man approached a student, pointed directly at him, and told him that he was going to take him out to the football field and “kick his a—.” After wandering from the Union, he traveled over to Little Library and—fitting in with his activities from earlier in the day—went to the computers. According to police reports, he tried to log on using the name Dwayne Hendrick and a Huntersville address. Leland Park, director of the library, spotted him and contacted campus police. After another bout of foul language, the man made his way out of the library, mounted a bike, and took off. It is unknown whether or not the bike was stolen from a student or if it was actually Hendrick’s property.

This matter is still under extensive investigation by the campus police. In order to prevent similar incidents in the future, Lt. David McLaurin of the campus police requests that any and all sightings of this individual be reported immediately. “There are some people we just don’t need on campus,” McLaurin said.

Davidson College Police Blotter