“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly” * ESTABLISHED 1914

Pass/Fail. Who chose the option under the new system? NEWS 3

Changing the world. Hobbie’s going to do it. Who’s with him? OPINIONS 8

A cinematic masterpiece. “English Patient” comes to campus. A&L 9

Near shocker. Women’s hoops falls by two to No. 10 Vanderbilt. SPORTS 16

Rookie center Brian Allenspach runs the floor for a layup in the Wildcats’ 101-65 exhibition win over the Charlotte Royals Monday night at Belk Arena. The squad kicks off its regular season Thursday against Duke in a nationally televised contest.

State agency tries to curb underage drinking at Davidson
Students, cops displeased with efforts
By Jessica Goopson
News Editor

The Alcohol Law Enforcement agency has been patrolling the Davidson campus consistently and unsolicited since early October. At the SGA meeting Tuesday, Dean of Students Tom Shandley stated that ALE officials have not been invited to campus, but they do have state-wide jurisdiction and therefore a right to be here. Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety, however, has asked that ALE notify the college when they plan to come in the future.

Richard Griffin, Supervisor at the North Carolina Alcohol Law Enforcement agency, said that ALE is acting on a Crime Control program initiated several months ago to reduce the percentage of alcohol-related accidents involving young adults by 10 percent. The word “accident” refers specifically to motor vehicle accidents where the driver’s alcohol level is .08 or above. The program entails that ALE bolster patrols in 12 North Carolina counties with the highest accident rates for people ages 15-20, where alcohol is the major contributing factor. Mecklenburg County has one of the highest incidence rates, with 120 such alcohol-related accidents in the last year.

Patrolling outlets near college and high school campuses in particular — where attempts to purchase, possess, and consume alcohol by those under 21 is common — ALE are closely scrutinizing football games, concerts, and parties, as well as ABC stores. In 1995, 5,000 people under age 21 were arrested for Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) in North Carolina. The goal of ALE is to lower those figures.

"We'll see how our efforts go,” Griffin said, “State-wide statistics will be out next year. Right now we’re just testing the water. This is an ongoing process, and it will continue through this year and probably longer.”

So far, student response to the presence of ALE on campus has been negative. One student, who chose to remain anonymous, related what happened to him on Friday, Nov. 7, around midnight: “I was walking from the senior apartments with about six or seven other people. As we came out of the woods and approached the road, a white Ford Taurus screeched to a stop about 20 feet in front of us. We all were wondering what was going on until we saw a man jump out of the driver’s seat with a flashlight yelling at us to stop.”

Although he never identified himself, the officer wore the ALE emblem on his jacket. He cited the student for possession of alcohol — “despite the fact,” the student said, “that I didn’t have any alcohol on me. He said he saw me holding a beer and that I could cooperate and receive a fine for possession, or he would make this offense a misdemeanor and it would go on my permanent record.”

The student accordingly received a $90 citation. Later that evening, he noticed that the officer had miscalculated his age as 18 instead of 19. To correct the mistake would require that the student hire a lawyer. A citation implies a criminal charge; a person 19-20 years old caught possessing or consuming alcohol will be charged with an infraction and receive a $25 fine. Anyone under the age of 19 will be charged with a misdemeanor offense and be responsible for court.Fees in addition to a fine. Those who are not of legal age caught attempting to purchase or purchasing alcohol, or using a fake ID, will not only be charged with a misdemeanor offense, but required to make a mandatory court appearance which cannot be waived. See Alcohol on page 2.

Panel of four discusses methods of good writing at forum.
By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

Four professors from various departments formed a panel at the first forum on the Writing Center Wednesday in the Union Home Room, as each person spoke about a specific topic before the floor was opened to questions from the audience. Tim Waples of the English department acted as mediator, and the panel was comprised of Hansford Epes (German and Humanities), Annie Ingram (English), Greta Munger (Psychology), and Patricia Peroni (Biology).

After a brief promotion of the Writing Center, Waples expressed his enthusiasm at the size of the audience. “We actually had to bring in some more chairs,” he said. “The more, the merrier.”

Epes was the first to speak. He chose to discuss writing in Humanities classes. “I think of writing as a process of shaping and sharing,” he said. Epes explained that a good Humanities paper should have a clear shape and idea, and should be mechanically correct. However, Epes also said that he wants students to “explore different strategies of writing” and to assimilate ideas. “We will ask you to think for yourself — often,” he said.

Ingram spoke next on peer evaluations. Peer evaluations, she explained, are a process by which students read and edit each other’s papers. Ingram believes it makes students better readers, writers, and editors. “It forces time for revision,” she said, and “gives varied feedback” instead of merely one professor’s point of view all the time. “We are not infallible as people,” Ingram admitted. She pointed out, though, that evaluations should contain honest, constructive criticism to be useful.

Munger, the next to speak, talked of her own college experiences at the University of Chicago. Munger said that she had found that she learned more on open-book tests that required her to integrate sources to come up with a comprehensive answer — in only two pages of writing. Munger transferred this to her teachings at Davidson, and sometimes gives her students open-book tests of the same type she had in college. It is possible to fail open-book tests, she said, by not answering the question. Munger’s advice was for students to write their answers, then edit them down to the allotted amount of space by getting rid of superfluous material. Munger sees this type of examination as a way to force students to think about what they are writing. It is also applicable in life, she said.

The last professor to speak was Peroni, who talked about writing science papers. In some respects, she said, science papers are easier to write because the audience is already defined, and there is a set format — that which journals use. However, she said, it is important to be concise in a science paper, and this is where students have problems. Peroni said that scientists don’t have much time to read, and so what they do read must be specific, concise, and in a familiar format. Peroni suggested that students look at related journals for an “idea of how people are reporting their information,” and that they “ask somebody for some help.”

“I don’t believe that ALE is necessary or productive on Davidson’s campus. Nothing good can come from their presence.”
— ANONYMOUS STUDENT ON THE ALCOHOL ENFORCEMENT AGENCY, WHICH HAS RECENTLY PATROLLED THE CAMPUS

OP-ED .......... 6
ARTS & LIVING .......... 9
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036