THE DAVIDSONIAN

HARVARD UNIVERSITY’S
JOHN F. KENNEDY
SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT

...is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs.
We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy,
with concentrations offered in:

- Criminal Justice
- Energy & Environmental Policy
- Government & Business
- Health Policy
- Housing & Community Development
- Human Services, Labor & Education
- International Affairs & Security
- International Development
- International Trade & Finance
- Nonprofits
- Press & Politics
- Science & Technology
- Transportation
- Urban Economic Development

INTERESTED?... Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will visit your campus on:

DATE: Tuesday, November 4, 1997
TIME: 4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.
LOCATION: Contact Career Services for Location

INFOnxx is recruiting a few top college graduates to build a team of project managers who will learn how to
manage, operate, and direct a dynamic, fast-growing company. Founded by two Ivy MBAs five years ago, INFOnxx provides opportunities unmatched
by the investment banks and consulting firms, at a competitive salary. You will have an immediate and direct impact on
our business. Please visit the Davidson Career Services Office for details on the position, our company, and our upcoming campus
visit.

Are You Considering Professional School?

STUDENTS - ALL YEARS - ALL MAJORS WELCOME!

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997
Davidson receives
$100,000 grant for
South Asian Studies

By Jenny Hapcoop
Staff Writer

During the summers of 1998 and 1999, Davidson College will be conducting a seminar in South Asian Studies for 10
college professors from around the country. Davidson received this $100,000 grant from the Ford Foundation.

Many colleges competed for the grant, and Davidson was selected because of its 28-year history of leadership in this area
of study.

“There are very few schools with the level of expertise in South Asia that Davidson has,” said Dr. Greg Guldin,
chair of the selection committee and chair of the Chinese Studies program at Pacific Lutheran University.

“The level of involvement of the faculty is impressive, as is the number of faculty and students who have been
there.

“The Davidson proposal brought together a number of resources on campus with faculty expertise.

“It was a well-crafted proposal, and made it easy to pick Davidson.”

Guldin noted that India’s population is predicted to overtake China’s in the next 20 years, and this discovery has led
to the need for more education about South Asia.

Colleges and universities need to initiate more programs that will make students more aware, and Davidson will be a leader
in this initiation.

The 10 college professors participating in the seminar, “Presenting South Asia: An Ancient Complex Culture,” will develop courses in South
Asian studies for liberal arts colleges. Davidson’s director of South Asian studies, professor Job Thomas, said the professors will be
selected based on their commitment to the field in February 1998.

Bill Mahony of the religion department and Lakshmanan Sabaratnam, a sociology professor, will assist Thomas in conducting the South Asian
seminar at Davidson.

Thirteen other Davidson faculty members will teach additional Asian topics such as appropriate technology, Asian music, environmental economics, developmental economics,
cross-cultural counseling, and Indian theater.

In the summer of 1998, the 10 professors will come to Davidson for 21 days of lectures and workshops.

These functions will be used to introduce the professors to the cultural heritage of South Asia and the issues it
currently faces.

The 10 professors will also have the chance to work with Davidson faculty in developing the new courses for students.

“The grant will help Davidson become the nerve center for a great deal of activity on India in the next
few years,” Thomas said.

During the summer, the group will also visit Washington, D.C., and the Indian and Pakistani embassies.

They will also have the opportunity to view Asian art at the Freer and Sackler galleries.

The following summer, the 10 professors will live in India for 21 days where they will travel and study.

This visit will allow them to meet Indian experts and learn about the institutions that correspond to each professor’s field
of interest.

Information from the Davidson Chronicle was used in this report.

INFOnxx Informational Services
- October 28, 7:00 p.m.
Career Services
