a

ARTS & LIVING

TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1997

Right On! Rocks On in 900 Room

Funky 70s band gives Class of 2001 something to shout about

By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts and Living Editor

It’s a ripening tradition at Davidson College Orientation: throw the impending year’s freshman class into a big room with a
raucous musical group and see how they all get along.

Another year later, the trick still works.

Put every prominent 1970s musical ensemble you can think of into a large metaphorical blender, click on “puree,” and shazam,
you have Right On!, a colorful, charismatic nine-member cover band from New York City, who performed Thursday night in the
900 Room. The band played for over two and a half hours amidst a stage adorned with colorful moving lights
and a smoke machine, which supplemented the hazy atmosphere inevitably created by the mass of sultry, energetic teenagers facing the
stage. Many students helped supplement the atmosphere by dressing in whatever 70s garb they could scrape together.

At least two aspiring Village People impersonators were sighted wearing the proverbial aviator shades and backwards plastic firefighter helmets.

Before the first bass notes of Stevie Wonder’s “Superstition” had shaken the floor, a myriad of formerly apprehensive first-year students
sent their limbs flailing as they let the funky vibes flow. They exhibited a commendable amount of cultural literacy with
regards to Right On!’s repertoire, as nearly every female in the crowd shouted effortlessly along with “I Will Survive” word
for word. Most students were even able to avoid mistaking Rick James’ “Superfreak” for Hammer’s “U Can’t Touch This.”

The band, consisting of drums, keyboard, bass guitar, lead guitar, tenor, and bass saxophones, and several vocalists, was a very
eclectic, talented group of soulful individuals. They had a man who could sing like James Brown, and another who could
scream like James Brown.

The former fooled at least one audience member by performing the intro to “Sex Machine” only to proceed into “I
Feel Good,” which was nonetheless one of the evening’s biggest hits.

Arrangements of hits by The Jackson Five (with the lead singer pulling off an outstanding Michael-esque falsetto) and even Metallica
were also well performed and received.

Although the temperature in the 900 Room continued its rise into sweltering proportions, a solid contingent of both first-year and
older students continued to get down with their bad selves. Right On!’s improvised encore concluded after 160 copacetic minutes of
funk, R&B, and disco, managing to spare us of any insipid rendition of “YMCA.”

The band itself claims that they may be returning to campus in the spring or even sooner.

Davidson managed to put itself on the band’s “good list” as Union Board members helped them dismantle their elaborate set
(an act of magnanimity rarely seen at other colleges, according to one band member). Right On! offered a nostalgic retreat
from the formalities of Orientation. With their bombardment of 70s classics, it was just like infancy all over again.

Gran Torino to drive home the “Welcome Back” message

By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts and Living Editor

Perhaps Davidson’s biggest concert event of the year will occur Thursday evening at Richardson Field.

Gran Torino, not to be confused with the Ford automobile of the same name, will perform this year’s “welcome back”
concert at 8:00 p.m.

According to music critic Luke Robinson, Gran Torino’s sound falls under the “ebullient funk” category, with their instrumentation including guitars,
drums, and a host of brass.

Although occasionally the band slips into a slow R&B mode, they have a tendency to turn even their most naturally
inhibited spectators into dancing fools. “If you like ‘Jungle Boogie,’ you’ll love Gran Torino,” Robinson said.

Admission is free with your ID, $7.00 without it.

The concert promises to be as massive an event as last year’s corresponding show — Jump, Little Children — which
appeared to draw a majority of the student body.

www.scmusic.com

Gran Torino wails away at a South Carolina gig in November 1996. They will play at Richardson Field Thursday night.

Write for Arts & Living.

Contact Wes (x6383, wegoldsberry).

At the Clubs

Music in two hours or less

Double Door: Laburnum

Jack Straw’s: Blue Miracle

Ziggy’s: Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts

Fat City: Annberetta/Bop Dead/Well Mach 4

Fat City: Liquilab X-Periment

Tremont Music Hall: Legendary Pink Dots/The Silverman

Jack Straw’s: The Jumpstarts

Moon Room: Love American Style

Block Buster Pavilion: 311 w/ De La Soul

Double Door: Les Moore and Friends

Fat Tuesday: Cherry Bomb
