The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
RANDY HARTWELL
HEATHER LARSON

Arts & Living Editor
CHRIS MOORE

Cartoonist
TERESA WHITE

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Business and Circulation Mgrs.
CHLOE BROOKE
MATTHEW EIRICH

Associate Editor
McNEIL CARSWELL

Sports Editors
WILL BRADSHAW
ANN CULP

News Editor
MICHAEL KRUSE

Advertising Managers
JOHN EARLY
PETER MARTIN

Associate News Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART

Opinions Editors
BRAD CHASE
KRISTEN BARTCH
BETH BACON
ERIC PENDERGRASS
DAVID SANTSCHI

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

"Good For Nothing, eh? Vestigial, huh? I'll show you vestigial //"

LETTERS

Thanks for the ride, SGA

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at: http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Bearable crosses

Those crosses which will soon appear outside of Chambers are like unsolicited junk mail. They tell you about something you
don’t really want to hear about in a way you don’t care to hear it. The crosses are also similar
to an AIDS kiosk which appeared two years ago near the spot of the present crosses. Both advance a fact
about how to see the world or deal with some aspect of the human condition. In other words, the groups
which put them up are solicitous and challenging, but are perfectly justified in being such. All that separates what the
Christian groups are doing from what the groups associated with the AIDS kiosk did is that a majority of people
on campus dislike either those Christian groups or having a public discussion of what is considered a private issue—religion. The
groups associated with the crosses have as much right to express their opinion as do secular groups on campus. Campus
dialogue cannot exist if some factions in the community are prevented from speaking.

That in the past the crosses have been accompanied by aggressive and smug notes and defenses from students involved in
erecting them has not helped the dialogue. Taking it upon one’s shoulders “to remind people what their vacation is for,”
as Eric Sapp did in the April 24, 1995 issue of The Davidsonian, does not win any friends and sounds
arrogant. But arrogance is not a reason to censure nor to complain incessantly about people forcing religion down our throats.
Besides, labeling something as forced has more to do with the attitude of the receiver of the message than the
sender. When one agrees with a vehemently expressed opinion the feeling that the message is being forced upon an audience
is absent. We find the attitudes that accompany the crosses both presumptuous and arrogant. But is it any less presumptuous
to erect an AIDS kiosk to raise campus awareness of AIDS? Both displays arise from a notion that the campus
is improperly informed or observant of some event or thing. We can question the necessity of one or the other,
but they clearly spring from the same spirit. This spirit is called having an opinion and expressing it publicly. One
may find the crosses to be distasteful or useless, but censoring the expression of certain opinions is hypocritical, benefits no
one, and damns us all.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per
student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

We would like to thank the Burk administration and the current SGA senators for their recentwillingness to fund and organize
the SGA shuttle to Cornelius and Huntersville. Their generosity not only allows us to run a program for five weeks
(a service we believe will broaden a student’s social options and may curtail drunk driving), but it also indicates their
desire for an SGA which meets student demand in various ways, including transportation for entertainment and other services. We would
also like to thank those students who, for whatever reason, used the shuttle service during this past weekend. As the
committee responsible for evaluating this Rides Program, we are encouraged that a good number of students used the shuttle this
weekend. However, because we know that the continuation of such a service into next semester depends largely on student demand
and use, we hope other students will make the effort to use it. Use it to go bowling or to
the movies or to Harris Teeter. Use it if you don’t have a car and can’t find transportation. And please
use it to avoid drinking and driving. The shuttle leaves from Rich Dorm on the hour Thursday, Friday, and Saturday
nights from 7 pm - 2 am and costs $2 per round trip. (It will not run March 28th or
29th). Again, thank you SGA and Davidson students.

Sincerely,
Warren Buford ’97
Co-chair of Transportation Task Force

The skinny on circumcision

To the Editors:

Circumcision, the surgical removal of the foreskin of the penis, developed into a routine practice in the U.S. in the
twentieth century. The U.S. is the only Western nation to practice routine, non-religious infant circumcision, where roughly 55 percent of
baby boys are still forced to undergo this painful surgery, done usually without anesthesia and always without the infant’s consent.
Worldwide, 85 percent of males are NOT circumcised. In 1971 and 1975, the American Academy of Pediatrics concluded that there
are “no valid medical indications for circumcision” of the newborn. In 1978, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists endorsed
this position, as has the American Academy of Family Physicians, the College of Pediatric Urologists, and the Canadian Pediatric Society.
Thomas J. Ritter, M.D., in his book Say No to Circumcision! (Hourglass Book Publishing, 1992), details 40 compelling reasons why
circumcision is not in a child’s best interest.

Routine circumcision adds $240 million/year needlessly to burgeoning medical costs, and it is not risk-free. The complications are numerous, and
can be tragic! Circumcision also causes a loss of some sexual sensations and function. For the uncircumcised male and his
female partner, the foreskin enhances sexual pleasure. Some men who were circumcised as infants and wish they had been left
intact have undergone surgical and non-surgical foreskin restoration techniques. The book The Joy of Uncircumcising: Restore Your Birthright and Maximize
Sexual Pleasure by Jim Bigelow, Ph.D. (Hourglass Book Publishing, 1992) describes these techniques, and can be ordered at most bookstores.
The best solution ultimately, however, is to NOT circumcise infants in the first place!

Whereas millions of males in this country are subject to genital mutilation by routine infant circumcision, millions of females in
Africa, parts of Asia, and many Islamic countries are subject to genital mutilation by female circumcision, excision, and infibulation. Procedures
run the gamut from removing only the clitoris or clitoral hood to removal of a major portion of the vulva
and closing of the vagina, with only a small opening left to permit passage of urine and menstrual blood.

Further free information on circumcision is available from the Childbirth Education Foundation, P.O. Box 5, Richboro, PA 18954.

Sincerely,
Petrina Fadel
5500 Sears Road
Groton, NY 13073

Did you know that the sacred Shroud of Turin is actually a Davidsonian t-shirt? Well, it is. Get your own
guaranteed authentic official replica relic. Only $10.
