10 7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Village Cupboard, a new eatery on Main Street, attracts professors, students, and townspeople. The food is fresh and the
price is right.

ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997

By Katie PALMER
Staff Writer

I’ve dined at the Soda Shop many times; I no longer need the menu. I always order the same thing:
Veggie Pita, Cottage Fries, Diet Coke. So, naturally, when I heard that another casual restaurant was opening on Main Street,
I was skeptical.

Six weeks ago, the Village Cupboard joined the shops of Main Street, occupying the now defunct Cosmic Coffee’s old space.
That restaurant was Davidson’s short-lived attempt at having a student-friendly coffee house. The Village Cupboard is three stores in one:
an upscale deli which sells meats as well as lunch and breakfast, a winery, and a gourmet grocery. Kathy Montbleau,
co-owner of both the Village Cupboard and Les Trois Faisans, created the restaurant with the idea of a place with
good, fresh food which was also affordable and fast. The menu reflects her inspiration.

The Cupboard offers bruschetta, soups, a Quiche of the Day, pasta, and melts along with standard lunch fare like salads
and hamburgers. The deli sandwiches have been popular with both eat-in and take-out customers for good reason — Montbleau relies
on Thumann’s, a company known for the exemplary quality and freshness of their meat. It is rumored that Ruth Anne
Vagt is a fan of their potato salad.

This week, I had my first lunch at the Village Cupboard. It is almost the antithesis of Cosmic Coffee with
its bright, blue tablecloths and homey wooden chairs replacing Cosmic’s stark metal furniture to create a cozy atmosphere. And, unlike
Cosmic Coffee whose owner was forced to declare bankruptcy, business is booming. When I interviewed the owner, she said that
she served 300 people each day for lunch and was selling her gourmet groceries faster than she could restock them.
At 11:30 a.m., the restaurant was basically empty, but before I had finished my drink, almost all the tables were
filled with professors, students, townspeople, and several mothers and fathers with their young children.

I ordered the Veggie Lover’s individual pizza ($5.95) and my lunch date tried the Quiche and Cup O’ Soup Combo
($4.95) with Shrimp Bisque. Sitting in the front restaurant by the window, we watched people scurry by in the rain
while waiting for our food. The entire front of the restaurant is glass, making for excellent people-watching. My pizza arrived
hot on a pretty white and blue ceramic plate (a welcome change from a plastic basket). Montbleau proudly claims that
she avoids processed foods at all costs and almost all her food is fresh and made from scratch. The vegetables
on my pizza were colorful — presentation is important to me — and my crust was fresh, not tasting like
it had been in the warmer since the morning. My lunch date also enjoyed her shrimp and quiche, although she
admits not to be a “quiche connoisseur.” Most important, the price was reasonable for the quality of our food —
affordable as an occasional trip to the Union Cafe.

For those Soda Shop enthusiasts who fear that the Village Cupboard will force the Soda Shop out of business, think
again. Perhaps the addition of another Main Street restaurant will help to give Davidson the reputation of being a great
place to grab lunch. The Soda Shop is a Davidson institution, and I doubt that a new restaurant will permanently
lure away long-time Soda Shop customers.Besides, the Soda Shop’s Cottage Fries are in a class by themselves.

24 Hour Photo, Inc.
Complete Photo Finishing For The Amateur & Commercial Markets
* 24 Hour Drop Box
* Commercial Accounts
* Instant Passport Photo
* Enlargements
* Copy Service
* Fax Service
* Computer Imaging
* Restorations
* E.6 Slides and B&W - 3 Hrs
(704) 892-5400
Hwy 73 & I-77 Exit 28
Southlake Shopping Center, Cornelius
Mon - Fri 10-8
Saturday 10-5

All Frames 20% Off
Now through January 1, 1998
Just in time for the Holiday Season!!

Ask About Our Photo Club For Even Bigger Savings
FREE Photo Club Membership To All Davidson College Students and Staff!!!

COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
* COMMERCIAL
* INDUSTRIAL
* PRODUCT
* AERIAL
* ADVERTISING
* PROMOTIONAL
* BROCHURES
* CATALOGS
* DISPLAYS
* MANUALS
* PUBLISHING
* STUDIO
* ON-SITE

WEDDING SUPPLIES FOR WEDDINGS OF ALL SIZES
OAK ST. CORNELIUS
Darkroom space available for rent.

Grade: A

The Village Cupboard is open Monday through Saturday from 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Call (704) 892-5992 to find out their Cookie
of the Day.

Davidson College presents a Black Box Production
"Two Rooms"
A play by Lee Blessing, directed by Benjamin W. Summers
Lighting and set design by Ronnie Higdon
Stage Management by Lee Robison
Costume Design by Tuyet Linh Tran
Sound Design by Josh Gaffga
Wednesday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:00 p.m. in the Black Box Theatre, Cunningham Fine Arts Building
Tickets $3 for students and seniors, $5 for adults

On the Scene at Davidson College

Coffeehouse. Coffee. Donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:30 p.m. in 900 Room.
B & I focus. Dean Shandley will be there. 7:00 p.m.-9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Photography Club. Join it. 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. in the Wilson Room.
DC Chamber Singers. It’s a concert. 8:00 p.m. in DCPC.
Jumpin’ Java. Be there. 7:30 p.m. at the Outpost.
21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
National Smokeout Day. Your lungs are malignant lumps of tar. Do something about it. But only today. Tomorrow you can
return to your disgusting habit of committing slow suicide.
Kayak rolling. Roll some more kayaks. 7:30 p.m. in Cannon Pool.
Coffeehouse. Sugar. Fat. Bring it on. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Friday Afternoon Club. The FAC is back. 4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Nothing. Make your own plans.
Jumpin’ Java. Free Triscuits! 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Piano recital. Aaron Lescher tickles the ivories. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall.

FRIDAY

SUNDAY

MONDAY

Climbing Wall. Grapple the outer limits and attack your fears. 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym of all places.
Amnesty International speaker. 7:00 p.m. in the Hobbie’s home away from home — the 900 Room.
Winter Solstice Concert. Contemporary Celtic group Nightnoise performs with special guest Andy M. Stewart. 8:15 p.m. at Love Auditorium.
Speaker. Orate in Chambers Gallery. 7:30 p.m.
"The English Patient." Naresh’s novel on previous page. Then watch the movie. 9:30 in the 900 Room.
Kristine Stiles. See "English Patient." Watch it. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Naresh will probably be there again.
Davidson Outdoors. Van Whitehead and his crowd are hanging out in Erwin Lodge. Join them.
Nothing. Dig yourself a hole in Little Library and don’t come out until after exams.
Jumpin’ Java. No quesadillas. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Climbing Wall. For more information, contact Van Whitehead.
Thanksgiving looms. You get to stop studying for once and eat insane amounts of food. Sounds like a good time
to me.
