THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Real life Studio Theater class subjects unwitting audience to extraordinary circumstances

By JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

“Guess What?” The question was posted across campus and left little clue as to the answer. Only the slightest hint could be gleaned from the sub-heading: Studio Theater 121/221, Thursday April 3 and Friday April 4. If you wanted to know, you’d have to go. And judging from Friday night’s packed house, the flyers did their job exquisitely — making the production another stop down the line of Frolic events.

The idea of the Studio Theater series relies entirely on student invention. Each of the 15 scenes performed was penned by a student and revised as a class. In addition to scripts, the class is responsible for most aspects of any theater production: sound, light, and set. And then there’s the acting. So, backstage and on stage, students flaunted their talents — and really, flaunted is appropriate. Unlike most Davidson Theater (whether they be black box productions, mainstage productions, or the upcoming student-directed one-acts), the Studio Theater class works with a number of mostly unrelated scenes. I say “mostly” because many of the short skits were connected by several through-line gags, and all fell within the framework of some twisted “Current Affair” parody. The first and final scenes, with everyone on stage, established the context. What we were about to see were short glimpses of real life— under extraordinary circumstances [insert X-Files title theme here].

The skits themselves varied from serious to silly but certainly tended toward the latter. One of the openers, “Kindergarten Capers,” was about a new girl in class. Along with her, we meet a girl still afraid of the dark, a boy with chronic nose-picking tendencies, and a bedwetter extraordinaire. Later, we learn the truth behind the bedwetter’s claim that the teacher is actually an alien. Another skit, brilliantly performed, centered around the love affair between (female) Cupid and the (male) Tooth Fairy and the consequences of such passion. My favorite of the bunch explored a revolution (led by Leslie Greiner) intending to return the South to the seat of power.

A nice addition to the production was a series of slides projected between scenes that either put the previous scene into context or caught the cast in compromising positions. More often than not, they drew as much laughter from the crowd as the scenes themselves. Everyone I talked to loved the class to no end. Josh Buchanan, playing everything from a disgruntled alien father to the fanatic leader of the “Bopping Uncle Sam” contingent of the Revolution, said of the Studio experience: “I especially enjoyed the chance to work with three of my roommates — it’s always fun to make fools of yourselves as a group instead of individually (like we usually do).”

David Wilcox sings his philosophy

“This is not Pollyanna, but it is definitely a way to feel hope in this world despite its imperfections.”

By Carrie Morris
Guest Writer

David Wilcox, a singer/songwriter from Asheville, NC, got into music because, “music got into me...it was the first place my heart felt right...so I followed it like a compass.” This reliable guidepost has enabled Wilcox to produce five albums, the most recent release (actually a re-issue of his first album) entitled The Nightshift Watchman, along his journey. His upcoming album is due out May 23, and he is calling it his favorite one to date. It is called Turning Point. Other collections include East Asheville Hardware and How Did You Find Me Here. These five albums will provide the material for Wilcox’s concert here at Davidson Thursday, April 10th.

Not only is Wilcox a talented musician, he is a poet. His clever, honest lyrics speak clearly about base human desires and revelations. I asked him to name an artist who inspires him, regardless of the medium. The question proved bland and conventional, but his response was anything but ordinary. “You know, you can’t hold a person up and say ‘this person has all the stuff.’ They’re just human like us. When their heart is right, they can show the light that is within them.” As for the source of inspiration, “there is something in the unknown that pulls me. Inspiration is always there if you let yourselfbe open to it, it comes in the strangest forms... but the timing is always right, we get what we need.” These unexpected flashes of insight are always the places from which we learn the most, Wilcox maintains. His belief in the importance of these surprises and random moments of clarity in life is a part of Wilcox’s philosophy which makes his music and its message so rich with honesty.

He speaks a language we can all understand because he is working with what we all know and wish to follow; “a deeper level of joy and the sorrow that is in the empty space.” He believes in the fact that despite all outside forces, we must learn to sustain and be full with what is within us. My few moments speaking with David Wilcox proved to be one of these random moments he spoke about. This interview exposed his easygoing and faithful outlook towards life and gave me a sense of peace that I was not expecting. Wilcox is a dynamic and powerful personality and just as much a poet offstage as he is in his music, but he still likes for his music to stand on its own. When asked for any last words for his impending performance here at Davidson, he wanted to “stress the content” of his work. “This is not Pollyanna, but it is definitely a way to feel hope in this world despite its imperfections.” 

Thursday at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room, for just $3, David Wilcox gives us a chance to experience his work and I encourage everyone to take a break and soak up his motivational music. On Thursday at 4:30 p.m., Wilcox also will be giving an interview and performance on Davidson’s own WALT (1610 AM). Tune in to hear the poet.

Jumpin’ Java brews up a storm at the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Tuition Benefits Open Forum discusses faculty dependents' tuition benefits in Perkins Auditorium 3:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Victor Fuentes habla de “Literary Welfare: The Formation of the Canon in 20th Century Spanish Literature” en el 900 Room 4 p.m. - 6 p.m.
Hindemith Recital features instrumental sonatas by Paul Hindemith in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Coffeehouse caffeinates your morning in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Victor Fuentes habla de “Una generación borrada por la del 98: Los bohemios del Grupo Germinal” en el Casa Cuarto 11:30 a.m. - 12:45 p.m.
Discussion of World Faiths discusses different faiths and religious life at Davidson at the Carolina Inn 7 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java features an acoustic performance by Atari Teenage Riot at the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Twenty-One Year Old Night celebrates spring in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
All About Herbs features renowned speaker and herbalist Wilma Cook in the 900 Room 12 p.m. - 1:30 p.m.
Housing Lottery, worse than Shirley Jackson’s, in the Chambers Gallery 5 p.m. - 11 p.m.
One-Acts perform in the Black Box Theatre 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Morris Dees, Director of the Southern Poverty Law Center, speaks on “Teaching Tolerance” 900 Room 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Vertigo, the Hitchcock classic, spins your head in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.
CROP Lunch feeds the hungry in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.
One-Acts perform again in the Black Box Theatre 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Daughters of the Dust are in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
David Wilcox sings in the 900 Room 10 p.m. - 12 p.m.

Coffeehouse brings folks together in the 900 Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Dyeing for Ada Jenkins. Chambers Lawn (no crosses involved) 3 p.m. - 5 p.m.
FAC Pub features The Davidsonian editors, as usual, in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Vertigo screens again in the 900 Room 8 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Eleanor Merrill has her violin recital in Hodson Hall 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Friday Nite at the Outpost. If it’s “nite,” you know it’s fun. 11 p.m. - 12 p.m.
Scholars Weekend. Keep a lookout for smart people.
Goonies brings back fond memories of Chunk and Sloth in the Outpost 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Gospel Music Explosion detonates in Chambers Gallery 4 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java sets the Outpost hopping 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.