a naive freshman, so I’m sure I am confused. But, then, my confusion does not come as a surprise.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sounds simple enough, right? If you’re not 21 years old, no possessing, consuming, or purchasing. Simple. So why is it
necessary to add an additional ten pages of “Appendix A: Alcohol and Drug Abuse?”

After our initial dorm meeting at the beginning of the year, upon the repeated encouragement of my two wise hall
counselors, I went to my Red Book and read all 10 pages of the Alcohol Policy, pages 24 to 33.
Upon completion of my assignment, I read it again. And tonight, I read it again. I’m still not quite sure
what I, an 18-year-old college student, am allowed to do.

Section VII of the Code of Responsibility states: “Davidson College, as an institution, expects to operate in accordance with the
laws of the State of North Carolina with regard to the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages by anyone under
twenty-one years of age which is forbidden by the state of North Carolina. The use, sale, possession of alcoholic beverages
on the Davidson campus is subject to this law.”

Code of Responsibility, I am underage and therefore am not allowed to buy, drink, or possess any alcohol. And since
objective No. 1 of the Davidson College Alcohol Policy is to “encourage students through education and the issuing of alcohol
citations to obey the laws of North Carolina regarding the consumption of alcohol,” I might as well forget drinking until
I am of age, right?

Under Section III of the Alcohol Policy, I find that alcoholic beverages may be consumed in private rooms within residence
halls. Now, since obviously I didn’t buy the alcohol since I'm underage and no one else would buy it for
me since that’s illegal and we're all under the Honor Code, where would this alcohol come from? Last I checked,
making my own alcohol also was illegal. And so I read on.

Under Section IV of the policy, I learn that since I can’t drink to begin with, I also can’t drink
in public areas, on my hall, or at a party. Also, I am responsible for my own conduct while in
my room, and I should shut my door if alcohol is present since I can neither buy nor possess it.

With these facts in mind, I began a little investigation. Accessing the powerful waves of the web, I looked into
alcohol policies in North Carolina law and on other North Carolina college campuses. North Carolina law states that it is
illegal for persons under the age of 21 to purchase, consume, or possess alcohol. As far as I understand the
statute, the only variation that exists applies to underage consumption while in private living quarters under proper parental supervision. Somehow,
I don’t think my parents are coming up for the weekend so I can drink in my room.

At the state-supported University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the alcohol policy is brief but very clear: If you’re
not 21, stay away from all alcohol. Students at Wake Forest, a privately-run institution, are subject to a common code.
Their policy is also concise, about a page long, and wholly consistent with North Carolina state law. Duke University’s policy,
although a little longer than the others, also stands behind the governing laws of the North Carolina General Statutes. It
is the only school of the three, however, that mentions a differentiation between alcohol in public space and students’ private
rooms, or apartments.

So here’s my question: if Davidson operates under North Carolina law, which forbids individuals under the age of 21 to
purchase, consume, or possess alcohol, why is it necessary to include 10 pages of often contradictory information? While I am
not so naive to presume that Davidson should simply cite North Carolina guidelines and assume a dry campus, I do
not understand the reasoning behind the “gray areas” which exist in the Policy.

Why differentiate between the grass and the sidewalk, alcohol in a cup or alcohol in a labeled bottle, an obnoxious,
irate drunk, a sick drunk, and a calm drunk? The common consensus of freshmen with whom I spoke was that
the policy, while sometimes confusing, is basically lax. Is the Alcohol Policy of Davidson College to tell us what is
legal or what we can get away with?

There has become a perpetual joke among friends that I say “I am going into town” when I’m really just
walking across Main Street on the way to check my mail. I mean, we're that close. Anyway, a huge white
truck with peeling paint has just stopped so that I may cross the crosswalk near UCB. I’m almost to the
other side of the street when I hear a loud whistle and...Holler. Talking about a two-minute walk down the one
street in a town that is dominated by a Ben & Jerry's and a shop that sells miniature trolls. Why
the formal language? Well, let me tell you that this walk we all take may be short but it is
certainly not sweet. It has, in fact, over the last year introduced me to the phenomenon known as the “catcalls
of a Southern redneck.” Now being from the North, it is not as if I am unacquainted with the idea
of backwoods hicks; let me tell you... I know. But at least they aren’t quite as vocal as they seem
to be when they drive down Main Street of Davidson, NC. Still confused? Let me paint a few pictures for
you.

It’s early in my Freshman year and I am on the way to the post office, eager to receive the
Wal-Mart flyer. The driver of the truck leans halfway out the window, stopping all the traffic in his lane, and
wags his tongue so violently at me that I feel like a human ice cream cone. He points at me
and yells “Ah yeah baby, you lookin’ good,” (direct quote) before leaving us in a cloud of exhaust and a
very uncomfortable silence. Obviously, I’m in shock, but, of course, using my considerable social talents, I recover well and say,
“So, how about those Red Sox?” I mean really—what do you say? You are standing there with your forty-something, brilliant
French professor and some guy has just yelled sexual slurs at you. This is definitely not cool.

Two weeks after this little incident, I’m taking a nice brisk early morning walk and who do I encounter but
my French professor on his way to work. We stop and are having a little chat, when we hear a
car horn. Turning towards the street, we see a twenty-something scruffy male leaning out a beat-up brown van. He points
at me and yells “Hey, baby, want a piece of this?” At this point, he proceeds to do a series
of pelvic thrusts in order to raise his crotch high enough in the window so that I could get a
fairly good picture of exactly what “this” was. No, I’m not kidding. Definitely a great first impression of Davidson. “Questions
anyone?”

So those are three of the many incidents that have led me to writing this article. And, no, I’m not
doing it as a big ego trip about how cute I am (trust me). It doesn’t matter what you look
like. Even when I’m decked out in sweatpants and a fleece, taking a walk with my friends, we get honks
and yells. Obviously, it doesn’t help that I’m usually booking it with a six-foot-tall blond chick, but, seriously, give me
a break.

So what’s my point? I know you probably think I’m about to jump on my Femi-Nazi soapbox and talk about
how today’s women are objectified and oppressed, marginalized and dehumanized, and generally have just about the worst life in today’s
male-dominated society. Don’t worry—all I have to say about the whole story is the big WHATEVER. But that’s another article.
And I’m also not writing because I’m worried about redneck potential or to suggest you do something about the present
problem I seem to be having. I just want us all to recognize a little something about human dignity, and
the fact that the holler, the honk, the gesture, and the jeer are not flattering—to women, and I don’t think
to men either. It’s just plain rude and embarrassing... especially in front of other people. Find your entertainment somewhere else
and convey your feelings about the opposite sex in some other way. So if you have, of late, had the
inclination to partake in such activity or the urge suddenly strikes you someday, just remember three things: get a life,
shut up, and keep your eyes on the damn road.
