Nw _DAVIDSONIAN _ _SPORTS_ _ TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1997

10. Ys Soccer | Gauntlet features home showdowns

By DANIEL MOTZ
Senior Staff Writer

Once again, coach Charlie Slagle’s Wildcats will play one of the toughest schedules in the nation—a slate which features three
home games against ACC competition. The Wildcats begin their regular season with a trip to Madison, Wis., where they will
face the 1995 NCAA champion Wisconsin Badgers. They will also tangle with Wisconsin-Milwaukee, which is coming off a 13-4-3 campaign.

Davidson is set to participate in a tournament Sept. 12-14 in Greensboro, where they will battle William & Mary, a
national quarterfinalist last year. The Wildcats make a second appearance in Greensboro later in the season when they face regional
power UNCG, which is playing its inaugural season as a member of the Southern Conference. The Spartans lost only one
regular season game in 1996 and were ranked No. 4 in the nation before being upset by Notre Dame in
the NCAA tournament.

But even more exciting for Davidson is its impressive home ledger.

“This is obviously our best home schedule since the 1992 Final Four season,” Slagle said.

The Wildcats open play at Richardson Field against UNCC, who made the Final Four last December. Furman, 13-4 and an
NCAA tourney squad a year ago, also visits Davidson. The Wildcats also host ACC powers Duke and North Carolina, and
they have a date set with Wake Forest during homecoming weekend.

Winning the conference tournament would put Davidson in an NCAA play-in game, but with such a powerful non-conference schedule, Slagle
thinks 14 victories would merit postseason consideration and sees 15 as a virtual ticket to the NCAAs.

“With such a good schedule,” the coach said, “we have the chance to play against the best and showcase ourselves.”

Julien is dither for Wildcats

By DANIEL MOTZ
Senior Staff Writer

Phil Julien has been in this position before. Whether it was when he played for Oak Hill Academy, the Eastern
Olympic Development team for six years, or the Region I Olympic Development squad, Julien has always been the go-to guy.
With Robert Clarke—the 1995 Southern Conference Player of the Year—gone, the high-octane senior represents the primary goal-scorer for this year’s
squad.

With six goals and five assists a year ago, Julien’s numbers from 1996 make up more than half of the
returning point-scoring.

“Phil’s just a great offensive player,” coach Charlie Slagle said last week. “He’s got a powerful shot and he can
beat guys off the dribble.

“We believe that we have not set unrealistic goals when we talk about Phil scoring 15 goals this season. He’s
such an unselfish player I’d like him to take advantage of his opportunities and maybe be a little more selfish.”

But Julien is reluctant to talk statistics or predict his scoring output for this year. To him, being the go-to
guy means helping his team. His opportunities will come.

“I think we’ve got a real balanced team,” Julien said last week. “If I help the other guys, the chances
to score will come. I just want to do my personal best, whether that is goals, assists, or whatever.”

One of four captains, Julien is yet again in a leadership role. And like his performance on the field, it
is an area where he excels.

“Aside from his physical ability, players really look up to him as a person,” Slagle said.

“I enjoy leading the guys on and off the field,” Julien said. “But the guys on the team have been
doing so well that it has made our (the captains’) job easy.”

As a scorer and leader, Julien personifies the intensity of the revamped Wildcats. After going abroad to Australia last spring—an
experience that put soccer in perspective, he says—Slagle reports that Julien came back with unbridled optimism.

“While I was abroad, guys were writing me and letting me know how the program was going,” Julien recalled. “It
was really exciting.”

For Julien and the rest of the Wildcats, 1997 marks a new season.

“Last year was disappointing both for me and the team,” Julien said. “I felt like I started out well, but
I started fading when the team did.

“I really want to become more consistent and do whatever it takes to get Davidson back to that level of
being a top 20 team.”

Attitude from page 12

Slagle hopes the multiple-midfielder scheme will help manufacture more goals. The Wildcats need to put the ball in the net
and create goals.said. “Even if they are ugly, they are still goals.”

Defensive unit, along with sophomore returnees Lawrence Cann and Randy Culbertson. Fred Reiser, Dan Cooke, Pat Miller, and Andy Lanoha
are battling for the final starting spot in the backfield. Stroble and Marshall Tyler, both of whom saw significant time
in net last year as reserves, are contending for the starting nod in goal. With Tyler nursing hamstring and back
injuries, Stroble has been getting the bulk of the action so far, but the position is still very much up
for grabs.

With seven starters gone, experience and proven talent are still question marks for the Wildcats. “I think we have a
different kind of talent this year,” Slagle said. “I would call it a young and enthusiastic talent. It is a
team that is certainly putting pressure on itself.”

Coaches and players hope the demanding schedule (see story) will propel Davidson back to the top 20 level they have
enjoyed in recent history. “It is great to be playing with this bunch of guys,” Julien added. “They are playing
for all the right reasons. It’s like the team is a bunch of little kids. We're playing because we love
the game and we want to win.”

Improved squad looks to surprise league

By Curtis TUTTLE
Staff Writer

Laughter. That's what was heard last week as the volleyball team prepared for the upcoming season. But this practice was
far from fun and games. A minute later, the players were back on the court diving to make the tough
dig and leaping up for the kill. The dedication and hard work — but also fun — were evident. This
is a true team. They are vocal, committed, supportive, and very talented. “Practices are intense and we are working very
hard,” setter/hitter Ginny Quis said.

The mix of a strong core of returners and talented newcomers gives the Wildcats not only a talented team, but
a very deep one as well. “Last year we did a lot of individual technical training that we do not
have to do this year,” coach Lisa Radford Marston said. “These ladies are very technically sound as a result of
the hard work everyone put in last fall and spring.”

The Wildcats are looking to continue a recent pattern of constant improvement — they improved in almost every statistical category
between 1995 and 1996. The 1996 group improved to 11-22 (including a 5-9 Southern Conference finish) after posting an 8-25
mark the year before. Led by Janet Duncan, who finished second in the league in blocks with 137, the Wildcats
leaped from eighth in the conference in blocking to second. Quis was the only player in the Southern Conference to
have four triple-double performances. Outside hitter Lois Ann Bumgarner ranked fourth in the conference in digs and led the team
in kills, attempts, service aces, and digs. Outside hitter/middle blocker Gina Lawrence ranked second on the team in kills, hitting
percentage, digs, blocks, and assists. She also ranked among the top 10 in the conference in digs.

Big wins last season have hopefully begun the snowball that will lead to a strong showing this time around. “The
end of last year, especially the win over UTC (the eventual conference champion), gave us a lot of positive momentum
heading into this season,” Bumgarner explained.

Two talented freshmen, Mara Mordini and Brooke Bentley, are expected to contribute right away. Katherine Lorenz, the Wildcats’ other top
newcomer, is out for the season after tearing her ACL early in the preseason. Still, the preseason rhetoric is nothing
but optimistic. Duncan feels good about the fact that “the team has lots of depth as well as many versatile
players. We have people who have an attitude to win.” Radford Marston feels the Wildcats are “solid at every position
as well as very supportive of each other.” She also recognizes “the importance of the three senior leaders who have
very different playing roles.” Those leaders will be even more important this year because the winner of the conference tournament
will receive an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. In previous years, the winner of the league tourney has had
to win a play-in game in order to advance.

Radford Marston knows it will not be easy. Furman, Chattanooga, and Appalachian St. also boast solid squads. But, as she
said, “Every year there is also a surprise team, and I feel we could be that team this year.”
