2 THE DAVIDPHONIAN BRIEFS

“Najarian Monkey” Found

After months of anxiety and constant vigil in the 24-hour computer lab, a shocked Tarik Khan, freshman extraordinaire, exclaimed, “I
can’t believe it, I never thought it would happen, but they found it.” The disk [whose title mystified even the
most ubiquitous members of the dungeon crew, Joselyn Schultz, Kristen Richardson, Liz Sale, Charlotte Seigler, Sabine Heller, Dennis Seavers, and
Randy Hartwell, none of whom were able to hide their surprise] was found by Professor James Najarian, who thought it
was his. Who knew?

Boehmler twins commit fashion crime—THEY ACTED ALONE!!

Campus fashionistas were shocked last Wednesday to learn of a heinous sartorial malfeasance. A witness spotted “the twins” in different
outfits. Although it seemed to be an outfit scheduling mistake, this did not explain the dog collar that Jean sported.
Liz sobbed, “I don’t know what she was thinking, I said TODAY was pink oxfords!” “This is unbelievable,” said Ray
Thrower, of the campus police. “They seemed like such nice little girls, who would have thought they could do such
a thing?” Friend Carlo Reynolds couldn’t explain: “It was like one day, they were not the same. It really threw
me off.”

Gul wins Humanitarian Award

For his efforts with Pakistani prison reform, Mr. Saad Gul, of Davidson and Islamabad, has won the Pakistani Women’s Humanitarian
Award. The committee consisting of brother Fahd, father Gaad, and younger sister, Jihad, commended him for extraordinary knowledge of the
prison system and for his work with prison rape victims. Mr. Gul commented, “I always knew that I would win.”
Gul used his prize money to purchase a harem and to replace his brother FAGUL’s towel, blue and lost. And
they chanted, Go, Saad! Get stupid!

Watson Fellowship in question

Recently people have noted a strange phenomenon, known as “Superman’s Father Syndrome” after Davidson graduate Jarrell Palmer ‘96. At first
thought to be an isolated case of ubiquity, the syndrome has been tied medically with the recent cloning of sheep
in Great Britain. This connection was first made at Raeford’s Barber Shop, where Davidson senior Pat Montoya gets sheared. “I’ve
never seen such a sight,” said ole man Raeford. “All the Montoya clones' resemblances to the sheepdog were uncanny.” For
Watson Foundation trustees, questions are numerous. First, “Can he dance with all that hair in his face?” This led to
other questions of the personal sort. “Who is Pat Montoya? Who is the REAL Montoya?” Until those questions are answered,
his status as a Watson fellow remains at large.

Junior attacked by own facial hair

North Mecklenburg County EMTs Andy Morris and Christina Thomas were called in Friday evening at the Union Outpost when Junior
Matthew Hobbie’s handlebar moustache grew six feet and strangled him. Onlookers gasped as Hobbie asphyxiated while eating a chicken quesadilla.
Most Outpost patrons believed Hobbie’s misfortune to be caused by an astray tortilla chip. Observer Stephanie Moses, concerned for Hobbie’s
life as well as his soul, attempted the Heimlich maneuver, but quit performing the procedure once the moustache grabbed hold
of her too. “Back! Agent of Satan!” Moses screeched, clutching her Bible. Outpost manager Dennis Rice called 9-911 once he
saw the commotion.

PHONIAN YO’ MOMMA’S DAY

Pakistani Palatable Pleasures

200 people and nothing to serve? Round those oxen up and try one of our favorite recipes:

Roast Oxen with Sun-Dried Tomato Coulis and Portobella Mushrooms
Serves 200 (including harem of sexy Muslim women)

Ingredients:
1 ox, slaughtered, in accordance with Islamic rites of purity
40 lbs. good quality sun-dried tomatoes
106 portobella mushrooms
32 gallons balsamic vinegar
1 barrel crude oil
1 chest frankincense
2 arks myrrh
14 cans Crisco
Juice of 5 bushels lemons
6 pecks Vidalia onions
23 cups seeded and finely diced green bell pepper
47 scallions, sliced thin
4 shovelfuls ground coriander
Pinch of curry
Horn o’ dates

1. Dig a pit in an isolated area. Let the harem do this part. Pick an area of the desert
with an oasis; that way water’s close by if the fire gets out of hand. Then set up a spit
and a fire and line with rocks for safety.
2. With 14 cans Crisco, grease spit well. Prepare ox for impalement. This is the tricky part. Try leaning slaughtered
ox against tent, tail...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Side down. Then insert spit, as you would a thermometer. Demand that Pakistani militiamen help you get the ox back
over the fire, once you have prepared the coulis.

3. Coulis: In a large vat, add sun-dried tomatoes, oil, and vinegar. Tell the harem to perform ablutions 5 times,
after all that digging. Then tell them all to get in the vat and start stomping. Drain into urns, set
aside.

4. In a skillet, brown scallions, onions, and bell pepper. Add lemon juice, coriander, and curry.

5. Slice mushrooms into long strips, sprinkle with leftover lemon juice to prevent browning and put aside.

6. Place frankincense and myrrh by fire. Turn ox on spit once quickly, to sear in flavor. Then start slow
roast. This takes 1001 Arabian nights. If you don’t feel like waiting by the spit, tell the sexy Muslim women
to do it. They’re used to waiting.

7. If you like, organize a Dance of the Seven Veils to pass the time. Or have your way with
your harem. It is yours, after all. Be a good host and arrange horn o’ dates for your guests, but
station militiamen nearby to guard against Bedouin marauders.

8. Test ox for doneness. You should be able to insert a scimitar and have it come out clean. Carve
while still hot into small chunks.

9. For presentation, place meat on skewers, top with coulis. Garnish with mushrooms, and serve on platters. Bon appétit!

Wine suggestion: None. It is forbidden.

Larceny from fourth Belk shower room. An unidentified suspect took one blue towel at 09:00 on April 27. Estimated value
of the towel: $2.50. Sentimental value: 0.

Indecent exposure on fourth Belk. A nude, angry, and wet Pakistani was spotted adamantly demanding the immediate return of his
“favorite towel, dude.” He has since been clothed. 09:05 on April 27.

Vandalism on third Rich. A substantial pile of fecal matter was found in a residence hall sink. Further investigation found
that it was not real fecal matter at all, but plastic “gag shit.” 22:00 on April 28.

On April 30, the victim was heard to say, “At least they didn’t take Hootie.”

Suspicious individuals spotted on the second floor of Little Library at 14:00 on April 30. Suspects, one male and one
female standing 6’ and 5’6”, were wearing black ski masks and nothing else. The male was carrying a laptop computer
and the female was listening to CDs. The pair asked where the photocopiers were.

Dress code violation on Jackson Court. An unnamed pair of twins were spotted wearing different outfits during a stroll past
the flowers. May 1 at 14:30.

For the *&#%$ vamanos van to take us to Rainbow Deli’s Mug Night for a *&#*(@$ hour and the *(@#%&#
van never came. What could we do? We had to get our #% @#% beer somehow.

Possession of an unlicensed firearm and intent to commit murder. Doomsdayer Dennis Seavers was apprehended from his Duke dorm room
on May 1 after the college police received an anonymous tip over voicemail (the message was sent on April 27,
after hours). Seavers, who is convinced that the world will end this summer, had collected a massive personal arsenal “to
prepare the way for the coming of God,” but was unable to reach campus police. He left a message instead.
April 29 and all is well.

On May 3, Seavers issued a statement from the Mecklenburg County Penitentiary where he is currently awaiting trial. “You'll see,”
he said. “When God shows up on a pillar of fire in July, you won’t be laughing then.”

Larceny from the second floor of Little Library. A laptop computer and CD player were taken along with four of
the victim’s five CDs sometime between 13:30 and 15:00 on April 29.

Seniors Greg Garrison, Kevin Boughan, and Brian Penny were charged with carjacking on May 1 at 23:00. The threesome explained
their actions by saying, “we had waited for the *&#%$ vamanos van to take us to Rainbow Deli’s Mug Night
for a *&#*(@$ hour and the *(@#%&# van never came. What could we do? We had to get our #%
@#% beer somehow.”

Minutes later, Morris and Thomas appeared on the scene, and used the Jaws of Life to pry Hobbie’s unruly FuManChu
from his neck. He and Moses emerged, uninjured.

Get a life, loser! (You, not us)
