a LIVING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

Bill Giduz @ Sponsored by the Alumni Association in conjunction with Homecoming Festivities, the Blue Dogs played in Johnston Gym
Friday night.

Davidson vs. the urban sprawl: An examination of alternative college experiences: might less be more?
By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

BOSTON — Fall break often gives Davidson students the first opportunity since the dawn of classes to escape the rural
confines of the Mecklenburg County Soil and Water Conservation District. Many return home to frolic with high school chums, some
turn to the beach to catch some last-minute rays, and a few brave souls take the infamous Urban Plunge.

I myself took the civilized urban plunge, spending three scintillating nights in the greater Boston area, visiting several friends and
family members. Arriving at Logan Airport late Saturday evening, I was guided by my cousin onto a shuttle to the
nearest subway station (or “T” stop as they are more often called in the Hub). Boston, at least for me,
has the remarkable ability to make itself and the rest of the world smaller than aisle five at Dover’s, as
I ran into Davidson's own Zhenya Arutunyan and an old friend from high school less than a half hour after
stepping off Midway Flight No. 5. I also passed Dan Duquette — the oft-maligned general manager of the Boston Red
Sox — on my way across the Charles River bridge one morning.

Boston’s public transportation system is second to none, enabling you to get from one end of the city to another
for a mere 85 cents (just be sure you put the token through the slot before you step through the
turnstile — it hurts to attempt otherwise). The city stands immersed in history and culture, and is host to nearly
50 different colleges and universities. Davidson, N.C., is host to one college, the Tom Clark Museum, and Ben & Jerry’s.
I’ve still not set foot in the last two.

My travels first took me to Boston University and MIT. Either one of these schools represents the antithesis of Davidson
(academic prestige aside). These schools have no grass — meaning lawns — and their campuses are virtually indistinguishable from the
rest of the city. Dormitories are usually old hotels or apartment buildings purchased by the school. Free time is usually
spent out and about, frequenting stores, clubs, museums, or simply exploring different areas of town. I enjoyed the excitement and
the novelty of having an entire city at my fingertips, a seemingly endless sphere of entertainment areas, places to spend
lots of money, mirth, and intrigue.

When Tuesday morning rolled around, I was sorry to see my vacation end. It made me realize everything Davidson is
not — big, bright, exciting, bursting at the seams with new places to visit and new people to be mugged
by. When I picture life at Boston University, I think of stepping outside my cousin’s dorm and facing Kenmore Square
and all the shops and sights and sounds therein. When I picture life at Davidson, I see myself listening to
music — whether it be Dave Matthews or Wesley Willis — with friends, the sound intermingling with laughter and students
banging relentlessly on the door at the end of the hall because they have misplaced their Cat-Card.

People sometimes ask if we might be missing out on the “real” college experience by attending a school like Davidson
as opposed to a large university. The answer, of course, depends on the definition of “real.” I noticed the focal
point of life at BU, for example, seems to be the world outside — albeit a spectacular one. Our experience
at Davidson is based primarily upon the people we meet, more so than our occasional excursions to Cornelius, “The City
that Never Sleeps.” At least for the next few years, I'll cherish the privilege of living in Davidson and visiting
larger realms. After all, what is Boston's public transportation system but a large-scale version of the Vamanos Van?

The St Body
By Amy Marks and Mirco Shores
Student Health Advisors

Hey there! We hope you all had a relaxing and enjoyable fall break. This week, we received one letter that
asked us to address a couple of questions. So we are going to give you a breakdown.

Question: What is a dental dam and how does it work?
Answer: Originally developed for the dental industry, a dental dam is a thin piece of latex that can be placed
over the female genitalia during oral sex. It can also be used to cover the anus during oral or anal
sex. We wanted to tell you a few things about the use of dental dams to save you time in
the heat of the moment. First of all, you never want to use the same dental dam more than once.
This includes switching from oral-vaginal to oral-anal and vice-versa. Remember to keep the same side of the dam toward the
body. If for some reason you find yourself without a handy dental dam, you can always make your own with
a non-lubricated...latex condom. Simply cut an unrolled condom down the center and open it. Voila, your homemade dental dam! Although
you could get quite excited, it is important that you follow all these helpful hints to ensure maximum protection. Sensitivity
can be greatly enhanced by using a lubricant. However, in this case, you might not want to use a lubricant
with spermicide because it does not taste very good. We would not recommend it. To apply this lovely sex aid,
you first rinse off the talc because it may cause irritation. It will need to dry before use. Then hold
the dam over the vulva or anus during oral stimulation, making sure that it remains in place. Dental dams are
effective in protecting you from sexually transmitted diseases. Oral herpes and genital herpes are easily interchangeable. But if you use
a dental dam properly, you can continue to keep yourself safe during oral sex. Please remember that dental dams are
used for oral-vaginal and oral-anal intercourse only. If you would like more explicit directions or other information about dental dams,
please refer to: http://www.ivygreen.gr.cc.wa.us/gender/STDs/safesex/dental.dam.htm. This is an important question and we hope to see many more like it. Remember that,
on Wednesday, the Student Health Center will be giving flu shots again. Please keep your eyes peeled for publicity about
this event. We would also encourage you to have hall programs and invite us, the Health Advisors, to talk to
your hall. We'll even bring dental dams for everyone! We have helpful information to share, and we are more than
glad to customize any program to fit your needs. Have a good week! Please address further questions or comments to
The Student Body, c/o Mitch Shores, P.O. Box 4180, Davidson, NC 28036.

Solidarity Committee to paint construction wall

The Solidarity Committee of the SGA is set to bring the college community a unique opportunity this weekend. Between 1:00
p.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Saturday, the construction wall facing the College Union will become a canvas. The event will
begin Into the Streets, the upcoming two weeks of volunteer opportunities. With the paints and paint brushes provided, students, faculty,
staff, and all Davidson community members are invited to come out and paint the wall. Food and drinks will be
provided; everyone need only bring their creative energies. Please come to the Union patio and be part of the constructive,
communal creation of beauty.

Kurt FESENMYER

PROJECT LIFE ICE CREAM SOCIAL®

A week from tonight • Oct. 28 • 7:00 p.m. • 900 Room

Hear from past donors and recipients of bone marrow transplants. Bring a friend and learn how to get involved. Enjoy
it, live it up, and have a great time. For more information, call Mitch at x6374.

On the Scene at DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. It's time to make — or at least eat — the donuts, 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Free caffeine at the Outpost.

Peace Corps. Informational meeting, come one, come all, 7:00 p.m. in the Union Home Room.

Ghana trip. Learn about it. 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

21-Year-Old-Night. Drink ‘til you drop. Because you can, 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room or until the tasty treats become
stale, whichever comes first.

Picture-day. Dress up. Comb your hair. Brush your teeth. It’s yearbook photograph time! 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. in the Union.

Coffeehouse. See Tuesday. Eat donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m.

Cheap donuts. Keep on eating donuts. More! More! And for little dough. 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

International Festival. Experience a world other than your secluded, pathetic own. 11:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. all over the Union.

Jumpin’ Java. It’s a little coffeehouse. 7:30 p.m.-Midnight at the Outpost.

The Shining. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, so go see a movie. 9:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

MONDAY

Flu Vaccine Day! Don’t fall prey to the evil, ubiquitous bug. 10:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. on Chambers Lawn.

Joan Borysenko. The Ph.D. talks. 7:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

What’s Eating Gilbert Grape? Find out. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

TUESDAY

Marjorie Agosin. If you want more information than we have — in other words, any information whatsoever — call Dr.
Magdalena Peña. 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Club Night. The artist formerly known as Disco Night. Meet that special someone under the sparkly glimmer of the disco
ball. 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY

What’s Eating Gilbert Grape? Watch it again. Girls, Johnny Depp is hot. Guys, just watch it again. 9:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

THURSDAY

Chungking Express. It’s a movie. Chinese food will also be served. And the bar’s open! 21-year-olds bring two — two
— IDs. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

FRIDAY

Chuck Sullivan. This novelist is going to read and talk about his work. 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Bring your mug. Midnight at the Outpost.

SATURDAY

Donald Brown. He'll be in Chambers Gallery at 7:30 p.m. For more information, contact Earl Edmondson.

SUNDAY

Psycho. The second movie in the horror films festival, it’ll make you run home to mommy. 9:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.
