One of the greatest tragedies in music is the misperception of blues. Whether due to stereotypes or a misleading name,
for many “blues” means either scratchy acoustic guitar or a band playing slow, sad music through the smoky haze of
a bar. But while ears may be cupped at the mention of the word, feet stomp and heels kick at
the playing of it. Everyone loves the music or they just don’t know its name. Yet despite an art form
lacking appreciation and understanding, one name continues to shine with recognition and affection: B.B. King.

Aside from playing a major role in the development of the music, King’s greatest contribution to the blues is his
deliverance of it to the mainstream. Audiences, spellbound by his passionate music and lovable character, leave his concerts knowing not
just his name, but a little more about the blues. Last Thursday in the UNNC student activities center, King captivated
another crowd with his magical charm and spirited playing.

Now, although King was the headline for “The Thrill is Back” blues festival, this might have been hard to determine
as the accompanying bands were of comparable notoriety: J. Geils and Magic Dick, Tower of Power, Robert Cray and the
Memphis Horns, and the King himself. J. and Dick were first at bat which leads me to my first complaint.
J. was probably second in fame to King at the concert, and yet he and Dick go first out of
a four-band lineup. Not only were they the opening band, but after a half-hour they were packing up.

Of course, the reason I’m whining and moaning about this is because I arrived late and only caught their finale—“Whammer
Jammer,” which was up to par. But a half-hour on stage is not an act, it’s a tease. As luck
would have it, I arrived right when the good band was stepping down and the bad one was tuning up.
For some reason, I had the impression that Tower of Power was a jazz band, and a good one at
that. But what they played was nowhere near jazz (note that this was billed as a BLUES festival). Combine cheesy,
sappy jazz reminiscent of Kenny G along with soft rock and you’ll approach what this group was playing. The band
consisted of a five-piece horn section, bassist, guitarist, and drummer, all nothing to write home about. Then came the maraschino
cherry on top of this pile of leftovers: A party singer who walked back and forth on the edge of
the stage dancing and flailing his arms as if possessed. On some songs, he’d do the put-your-arms-in-the-air thing or shout-and-response
with the audience.

To make matters worse, the acoustics of the performance hall, which was a large sports stadium, were the worst possible.
After the reverberation dealt with what came out of the speakers, the music turned into noise, with all the instruments
meshed into one indistinguishable blur of sound. This had to be endured for an hour (why couldn’t Tower play the
half-hour and give J the full?) before relief came from Robert Cray. His soulful playing left no doubt as to
why he is among the most popular contemporary blues guitarists. A standing ovation and an encore later, the stage was
primed for the main event.

Before King could play a note, the audience was on their feet, the position they spent a good part of
the show in, as standing ovations were prolific until the end. And they were well deserved, for King was at
his usual best. But he wasn’t the only star on the stage. Backing him was a solid band complete with
a stellar brass section and doubledrum set. The back-up guitarist was so exceptional I wondered if he was creeping upstage
of King ... naaa. King’s unique, patented style is untouchable, and Lucille (his guitar) sang it beautifully as always. But
King’s playing wasn’t his only performance. His warm, jestful, fatherly stage presence was a show unto itself. After the first
few songs, King sat down with Lucille and had a little one-on-one chat with the audience, telling stories, making jokes,
playing music, and just being his merry old self. The audience loved him, and King graciously reciprocated it. I walked
away from the show riding on air. King’s music and character elevated every spirit in the house, no matter how
many papers, reviews, or problem sets were due. I couldn’t believe I was ambivalent about going, pondering the time-tested Davidson
excuse listed above. Afterwards, I couldn’t imagine how I could not have gone. King made it all worthwhile, every dollar
of the $25 for admission and every minute of the five-hour show. After all, who knows if I’ll ever see
him again—he’s 72 years old and still going strong, hopefully for many more years to come.

Disco Night makes modest 900 Room debut
By WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Arts and Living Editor

Traversing Chambers Lawn from north to south shortly after 10:00 p.m. last Thursday night, a flourish of activity caught my
eye as I peered upwards through those majestic “rectangle capped with semicircle” 900 Room windows. Vibrant lights, brisk music, a
humble flailing of several limbs; something was definitely going down. This “something” was the year’s first Disco Night, which is
scheduled to occur every other Thursday night at 10:00 p.m. While the upside is that Disco Night will be a
biweekly event, the downside is that fifteen minutes into Thursday night’s installment, there were about 10 whole people in attendance.
Fortunately, they were all rather uninhibited dancers. The Union Board did manage to turn the 900 Room into a formidable
Soul Train venue facsimile. They had colorful rotating lights, a strobe light, and a mirror ball to reflect lights. The
atmosphere was disco, but the music wavered anywhere in between disco and the Indigo Girls (a mistake which was quickly
remedied). Nonetheless, it was nearly all danceable. Further credit is due to the DJ for not playing “YMCA,” although “In
the Navy” would be a worthy substitute for subsequent occasions. Even if one had no intention of dancing, entry is
free as are the huge quantities of bright orange tortilla chips and salsa, which are worth the trip up the
Union staircase. Complimentary water is available at the bar. Disco Night’s pace did rev up significantly after thirty minutes, with
as many as 60 students on the floor at a time, which is still a mere 4 percent of the
student body. Many first-year students arrived in somewhat authentic 70s garb, with a smattering of upperclassmen similarly dressed. Making up
for the shortage of students in attendance, those that were there were engulfed in enthusiasm. Music continued to play for
a solid few until at least 10 minutes after the scheduled ending time of 11:30 p.m. Disco Night is a
great idea, and, with a packed dance floor, could become even more hip and successful. If you enjoy starting your
weekend early, you should go.
