SOUTHERN CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT SPECIAL
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1997

Men poised for NCAA run in Greensboro

In what was supposed to be a rebuilding year, Wildcats again enter tourney as one of favorites

By MICHAEL Kruse
Sports Editor

A swarm of press surrounded Bob McKillop’s table at the pre-season media tip-off some four months ago. The team Davidson’s men’s basketball team, 25-5 overall and 14-0 in the Southern Conference a year ago, was horribly undermanned and maybe not even .500 material. The Wildcats, NIT participants in two of the last three seasons, were finally going to experience the sting of defeat, something it had dished out so mercilessly last year. That was the main story. Not UT-Chattanooga’s NBA prospect Johnny Taylor. Not Western Carolina and its near-miss against top-seeded Purdue in last year’s NCAA’s. And not the league’s three new head coaches. Davidson was going to be bad. Gone were four starters, three all-conference selections, 72% of the points scored, 65% of the minutes, and 55% of the rebounds. How could the Wildcats possibly succeed, led by a bunch of unprovens and unknowns staring at one of the toughest pre-conference schedules in the country?

“Looks like a rebuilding year, Bob,” one reporter said, virtually on behalf of all the others.

“That’s what everyone says,” replied McKillop with a sly smile and a sort of suave confidence. He did, however, admit, “With what we’ve lost, the expectations would be a real question mark for us. This isn’t a year that’s going to make or break the program, but it is going to influence the future.”

If that’s the case, the forecast for Davidson basketball has NCAA written all over it. And perhaps sooner than later.

“I believe we have talent and that talent matures and grows,” said McKillop at the time. “Whether that happens in February or March or not until next season, who knows?”

Well, then is now. Those questions have all been answered, and the Wildcats are 17-9, 10-4, heading into the winner-take-all league tourney having won six in a row and nine of their last ten. Point guard Ali Ton has stepped right into the shoes of last year’s court leader Chris Alpert and is among the nation’s assists leaders at 6.8 per game. The power forward void left by superstar Brandon “Ozone” Williams has been filled beyond all expectations by Landry Kosmalski, almost a sure shot for league Freshman-of-the-Year. Mark Donnelly, an inconsistent bench player last season, has become a true game-breaking threat. Narcisse Ewodo, the lanky, soft-spoken slasher and the lone senior starter on this year’s young squad, has quietly - in his own way - led this team. The bench, an essential part of any Bob McKillop squad, has come on strong lately, adding quality depth to the roster and giving the starters rest that should pay dividends if the Wildcats want to win three games in as many days to earn one of the 64 coveted NCAA slots. And McKillop, who was put on automatic pilot by last year’s runaway freight train, has demonstrated just what a superior instructor and motivator he is, molding an iffy bunch into a rock-solid unit — every individual on the same page, the same mission.

“Bobby’s an outstanding coach,” lauded Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski after his Blue Devils’ 85-58 victory over the Wildcats Dec. 11 at Cameron Indoor Stadium. “I’m surprised we won by the margin we did. They’re a team where the sum is greater than the total of its parts.”

Co-favorites Marshall and Chattanooga have struggled lately, leaving the door wide open.For Davidson, which has—as McKillop had originally hoped—become a dangerous team playing its best basketball at the best possible time. Through what are becoming Davidson trademarks—intense defensive pressure leading to easy offense, and fundamentals and court savvy—the Wildcats are right where they want to be and have established themselves as a perennial player in the conference elite.

“I think we’re working on something special here,” said Kosmalski after the Marshall loss Feb. 3 at Huntington, W.Va. “Everyone here, we can kind of feel it. We’re going to get stuff done.” The Wildcats haven’t lost since. And this was supposed to be an off year. Rookie standout Landry Kosmalski puts in two of his 20 points in Saturday's 78-76 win over Appalachian St. Kosmalski is a big reason the Wildcats are a surprising North Division second seed in this weekend’s Southern Conference tournament.

Donnelly’s unselfishness, hot hand lead way
By Dante L. Motz
Staff Writer

When Mark Donnelly spends ten minutes after each game talking with young Davidson fan Chris Hathcock of Belmont, he exhibits the same unselfishness that has made his junior year so successful. “I am not a selfish person,” said the New Jersey native in an interview last week. “Coach always says that when things aren’t going well with you, help somebody else. As a leader, I try to contribute any way I can.”

The 6-foot-5 shooting guard averages over 13 points, four rebounds, and two assists a game, all career highs. A big jump for a guy who last year scored six points a contest. Still, along with senior Narcisse Ewodo, he was given the reins to pilot the Wildcats this season. And Donnelly’s shift in duty was, at first, a bit intimidating for the co-captain. “Most of the pressure came from myself. I had to get into the right mindset.”

But numbers cannot begin to convey Donnelly’s true impact on this Davidson squad. “Mark contributes to this team in so many ways, whether it is making the big shot or doing all of the little things that he always does,” said coach Bob McKillop. “His unselfishness is amazing. Quite simply, he is Saint Mark.”

“He keeps us going in practice every day. When we need the big play, he’s always there,” Landry Kosmalski said recently.

See Leader on page 4

Mastermind McKillop crafting perennial contender
Winning is an expectation and a reality under Southern’s finest coach
By Aaron Dunham
Staff Writer

Few things go unnoticed on the small Davidson College campus. Conversation these days seems to be centered on co-ed dorms for next fall or the possibility of a new student union. Occasionally, the talk shifts to the surprising men’s basketball team. And when the subject is broached, one can usually expect to hear chatter about Cisco or Mark or Landry or Burns. “Man, that team is playing well,” one student recently remarked. “That coach they have sure is doing a good job. What's his name again?”

An innocent mistake, but also a crime given the impact head coach Bob McKillop has on Davidson. McKillop would prefer you knew his players’ names rather than his own, though what he and his staff have accomplished this season is certainly front-page news. The eighth-year coach is the architect of a team that has been built the way a college basketball program should—with committed, hard-working student-athletes who succeed in the classroom first and on the court second. In just eight years, he has transformed Davidson from a 4-24 squad to a perennial Southern Conference contender.

See McKillop on page 2