14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Master Drawings from the Sonnenshein VAC Collection at Cornell (Iowa) College, one of which is shown above, will be on exhibit at the Visual Arts Center from Thursday until Dec. 14. Art professor Nina E. Serebrennikov will give a talk entitled, “What is a Master Drawing?” Nov. 11 at noon.

“Seven Years in Tibet”: Drama or documentary?

When I heard that Brad Pitt was starring in a movie about a German man who befriends the young Dalai Lama, my first reaction was, “You must be kidding. Brad Pitt?!” Pitt, however, proves his talent as an up-and-coming actor in Seven Years in Tibet, currently playing at Movies at the Lake.

The movie opens at the beginning of World War II. Pitt plays a proud young mountain climber who sets out with a German party to place the German flag on Tibet’s highest peak.

Climbing on British territory, they are captured by English soldiers and become POWs of World War II. After years in the prison camp, Pitt and company finally escape, and two men find their way to Lhasa, the holy city of Tibet and the home of the Dalai Lama.

Tibet is a small country between India and China, isolated by the immense Himalayan Mountains.

The film’s screenplay is stunning, full of wide-angle shots of the mountains and glimpses down into the Tibetan landscape.

Because Tibet is so geographically isolated, Tibetan culture remains untainted by Western influence. The sections in Lhasa are the best parts of the movie simply because of their backdrop of Tibetan art and Buddhist worshippers.

My favorite scene is one in which Pitt watches a line of Buddhist pilgrims traveling to the holy city, stepping every few steps to lie down on the ground. They make their pilgrimage as long as possible because to them, traveling purifies the soul.

As someone who is very interested in Eastern religions and Buddhism in particular, I had high expectations for this movie. While the Buddhist religion underlies much of Tibetan existence, religion is more of a backdrop that the screenwriters employ to explore human drama.

The dynamics between the characters are not as developed as they could be; the screenwriters miss several opportunities where the movie could have been quite powerful. Some view this understatement as a good part of the movie; I view it as the film’s major flaw. But because the film explores so many relationships, a more thorough character study may have been too exhausting for the average movie-goer.

I enjoyed the film more as a documentary on Tibet than one of religious and emotional revelations and epiphanies. While the movie does not have the emotional force of other epic-like movies, such as the acclaimed English Patient, Seven Years in Tibet was well worth the $4 student ticket and drive to Cornelius.

Horoscope

By The Exalted One from Xanadu (Bacalao)

LIBRA
Better times are here! Enjoy them while you can. Look for flattering looks, a 4.0, and no hangovers. Lucky place for love: physics lab.

SCORPIO
Watch for falling objects! Things may be falling everywhere, such as grades, Powerade, and potted sunflowers from 4th-floor windowsills. Lucky place for love: lifeguard stand.

SAGITTARIUS
Bad times are over! Everything shall be plentiful. Look for free things in your fridge or on your door. Lucky place for love: your bed.

CAPRICORN
How can you have a bad week? You were born right around Christmas and New Year's! Lucky place for love: Carowinds.

AQUARIUS
Look for your true love in your earliest class. Ask this person on a date, and take him or her bowling. Lucky place for love: Mooresville.

PISCES
Remember the advice your parents gave you before you came to school? This may help you this week. Lucky place for love: Cornelius.

ARIES
Turn that frown upside down. Think happy thoughts of frisbees with beer in them or playing putt-putt golf. Lucky place for love: the ground.

TAURUS
Make sure to double-check that your shoelaces are tied so you don’t end up taking an untimely spill. Feed off of Sagittarius's energy. Lucky place for love: Back of a van.

GEMINI
In the immortal words of Eddie Murphy: “Wookin’ po nub in all da wong paces!” Search for new love elsewhere. Lucky place for love: Raleigh.

CANCER
Take a road trip to the mightiest U.S. state, Virginia. Make sure to buy gas first so you don’t run out. Lucky place for love: Buffalo.

LEO
Make sure to keep your promises! Don’t tell someone you're going surfing and then bail at the last minute. Lucky place for love: Wilmington.

VIRGO
You are a pimp! Lucky place for love: Lancaster's Bar-B-Que.

COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY

AKUDZUE

ON SOUTH BROAD

International cuisine with a southern twist

259 South Broad Street, Mooresville, North Carolina 28115
704-663-1859

Dark Room Space AVAILABLE FOR RENT