Cheerleaders bring spirit to Tampa
By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

TAMPA, Fla. — In its clash with I-AA scholarship opponent South Florida this weekend here in Florida, the football team
was not alone.

Football Notebook

The Wildcat spirit team made the trip down to Tampa to offer support. Led by seniors Stephanie Baxter, Bonner Mead,
Sara Jane Spivey, and Erica Thomas, the cheerleaders braved the confines of Houlihan’s Stadium and a rowdy South Florida mascot
to cheer for the Wildcat gridders. While at the Davidson team hotel, Thomas described the squad as a “very talented,
integrated group of women that work well together.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cheerleading advisor Jeanette Scire sees the squad as a family. “The student population at Davidson is so small,” Scire said.
“It is very difficult to get people to go out and perform in front of their peers. And when you
find people that want to do that, they tend to feel a common bond.”

To pay for its trip to Tampa, the cheerleading squad sold shirts commemorating Davidson’s centennial football season. “They feel such
a strong commitment to Davidson College and its athletes,” Scire added. “They wanted to be here for the football team,
and they wanted the team to know that they had the support of Davidson with them.”

As the team prepares for the basketball season, its members hope that the fans get more involved and come out
to Belk Arena to back the Wildcats. “We hope the fans are excited and ready for some thrilling times,” sophomore
Mindy McGehee said.

WILDCAT FOOTBALL

USF offense loaded

The Bulls had six players that each had more than 70 yards of offense. Raphael Williams rushed 12 times for
120 yards and Jermaine Clemons ran 15 times for 85 yards. Darren Bishop had four receptions for 78 yards and
Charlie Jackson had three for 72. Chad Barnhardt and Lance Hoeltke passed for a combined 288 yards. The Wildcats only
managed 111 yards of total offense against the menacing Bull defense. In the first half, the Wildcats had no passing
yards and signal-caller Tommy Dugan was sacked three times. Jeremiah Parvin capped an impressive rookie campaign, contributing nine punts for
a total of 326 yards, averaging 36.2 yards per kick. Shreve Ariail had eight tackles and Ben Spivey had six,
including three for losses. The Wildcats finished with a 3-8 record, despite being outscored by only three points — 266-263
— over the course of the season.

A new gridiron era begins
I-AA schedule will be a challenge
By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

TAMPA, Fla. — Despite the loss, Saturday's game against South Florida was a milestone for the Davidson football program.

On Football
Jack Morse

The contest against the scholarship Bulls marked the first time in more than 15 years that Davidson had played a
Division I-AA team. And Davidson will have more opportunities to play against Division I-AA opponents in coming seasons.

“We usually play an entire Division III schedule,” coach Tim Landis said. “But we played this game because they (South
Florida) paid for our trip, and it was a great experience for the guys.”

These games will definitely be a new challenge for the Wildcats since most of these I-AA squads give football scholarships
— something Davidson does not do. But there is a lot for Davidson to gain from these contests. The team
will get more exposure and will get a chance to play in front of large crowds like the 27,000 that
attended Saturday's game.

“Even though we lost,” defensive end Ben Spivey said, “this is the greatest game I have ever played in.”

The Wildcats open at I-AA Jacksonville next year.

Bumgarner and Seegers finish stellar careers
By Curtis Tutte
Staff Writer

The Southern Conference volleyball tournament this weekend marked the end of two outstanding careers. L.A. Bumgarner and Cindy Seegers have
both made an indelible mark on the Davidson volleyball program — through their contributions on and off the court.

“The way our program has progressed in the last four years is a tribute to them,” Wildcat coach Lisa Marston
said in a recent interview. “Our steady rise in the conference is a tribute to their leadership, for you don’t
get to where we are now without it.”

Over the last four years, the Wildcats have finished seventh, seventh, sixth, and now third in the league standings. And
although they came up short this weekend in Statesboro, Ga., the Wildcats proved through this year’s regular season that they
belonged in the conference’s first division.

Seegers, a 5-foot-5 setter from Granville, Ohio, became enough of a leader to be voted captain by her teammates prior
to this season. Last year, she led the team with assists and aces. Her .352 attack percentage was also tops
on the squad. Her total assists placed her eighth in the Southern last season. Even though she missed 10 matches
due to injury this year, her total career assist mark — 1,311 over the last four seasons — was good
enough for third in the history of Davidson volleyball.ball. “Cindy has opened up and become a great leader, especially vocally,”
Marston said. “She is smart, knows the game well, and is extremely coachable. Cindy works very hard and pushes others
around her to be better.” Bumgarner, from Salisbury, N.C., was highly recruited coming out of high school and chose Davidson
over North Carolina. She started all four years and became a stable force in the Southern Conference. Last year, she
led the team in kills, attempts, aces, and digs. She was fourth in the conference in digs. Bumgarner was out
for six matches this season due to an ankle sprain but still finished second in the league in digs per
game — behind only fellow Wildcat Brooke Bentley. She finishes her career with the fourth-most kills in school history —
1,079 — and fourth in digs with 1,219. “Over her career, she has truly become a seasoned veteran and reacts
to the ball extremely well,” Marston said. “She is effective in many different situations.” In their four years, Seegers and
Bumgarner have seen the Davidson volleyball program grow from being near the bottom of the Southern Conference to a team
that consistently competes with the best. “They have been great examples to everyone,” Marston said. “They show that hard work
really does pay off. They push their teammates and keep them accountable. They are also always positive and choose to
learn from their mistakes rather than dwell on them.” “Being a member of this team is indescribable,” Seegers said. “No
other experience compares. I have realized this and hope that the younger girls on the team know it as well.
I wish them luck in the future and I have faith they will continue the hard work, desire, and commitment
in the years to come as Davidson becomes a powerhouse in Southern Conference volleyball.”

@ Bumgarner @ Seegers @ L.A. Bumgarner, seen above in action last year, finished her outstanding career this weekend at
the Southern Conference tournament along with classmate Cindy Seegers. The duo etched their names in Davidson volleyball annals while helping
the program ascend to the league’s upper echelon. The volleyball team lost a five-game heartbreaker Friday against Western Carolina in
the first round of the tourney in Statesboro, Ga.

WILDCAT BASKETBALL Volleyball booted in first round Davidsonian News Services STATESBORO, Ga. — After starting the Southern Conference season so
well, the volleyball team’s dreams of a league tournament championship came to a quick end Friday in a first-round loss
to sixth-seeded Western Carolina. The No. 3 Wildcats won the first two games in convincing fashion against the upstart Catamounts,
logging 15-8, 15-6 victories. But a seven-point advantage in the third game disintegrated into a demoralizing 15-12 loss. And Western,
having seized the momentum for good, raced to 15-8 and 15-6 wins in the last two games to pull off
the five-game upset. Sophomore outside hitter Gina Lawrence starred for the Wildcats, posting 19 kills and nine digs. Davidson had
five players with double-digit digs, paced by rookie Brooke Bentley’s 19. Top-seeded Chattanooga, which dominated the Southern Conference this year,
knocked off Western in the title bout Sunday to earn the league’s automatic berth to the NCAA tournament. Davidson finished
its season at 14-17. Two Wildcats garnered individual postseason honors, as L.A. Bumgarner and Janet Duncan were named second-team all-conference.

Motz from page 12 competing with the nation’s best, you will attract attention. And for 27 minutes, the Wildcats did.
After a Stephen Marshall basket put Davidson within eight with just over 13 minutes remaining, someone on press row asked
how long McKillop would remain at Davidson. It was then when the Blue Devils began their 13-1 spurt that iced
the game. And when the smoke cleared, the margin was 35. It was a rout. The game was closer than
that. But to the casual ESPN2 viewer, this was another game in which a powerful ACC team wore down and
dominated a lesser-known school. To a casual fan who didn’t see the game but found the score in the paper,
Davidson was fodder in Duke's home opener. Duke is a top-three team and it played a near-flawless second half. It
was Davidson’s first game and it showed. They kicked the ball around all night and never found an offensive rhythm.
That, combined with the Cameron crowd, created a downward spiral that Davidson could not escape. Still, the Wildcats are better
than the typical small conference team. With five players in the rotation that are at least 6-foot-7, the Wildcats do
have the size and depth to compete with virtually anyone. Under McKillop’s guidance, the Wildcats have gone from a four-game
winner to a perennial Southern Conference power. Now it’s time to take it to the next level. There are still
opportunities. With Wake Forest, Massachusetts, UNC Charlotte, and — potentially, at least — national champion Arizona remaining on the slate,
the Wildcats still have a chance to attract national attention. And if all else fails, there are the NCAAs. Because
at some point this season, Davidson is going to beat someone they shouldn't. It just didn’t happen Thursday night.
