18

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997

Coulombe reaches milestone

By Michael Kruse
Sports Editor

Senior Jonathan Coulombe, who anchors the Wildcat staff, became just the third pitcher in school history to reach the 200-strikeout mark, doing so with a sixth-inning whiff in the series finale versus Marshall. Going into this weekend’s VMI set, Coulombe led the Davidson starters in wins (3), ERA (5.43), and complete games (7). The seven complete games are tops in the Southern Conference.

He has also only walked nine batters in 63 innings. In his career, Coulombe has a strikeout-to-walk ratio of almost 3.0.

Home sweet home

There must be something special about Wildcat Park.

The team boasts a respectable home record of 14-11 this spring but has won just once in 12 games off campus.

Why the disparity?

“You kind of get in a comfort zone at home,” explained coach Dick Cooke during yesterday’s rain delay. “You probably see that with a lot of clubs in college baseball, but I don’t really have an answer.

“We definitely don’t want to get the Colorado Rockies stigma,” he added, referring to the Rockies’ alarming home field advantage at Coors Field in Denver.

The Wildcats do play 30 of their 52 regular-season games this season at home, but a nine-game road stint, starting Wednesday at UNC Asheville, looms.

Pitching coming around

With strong performances by Mike DeSimone, Mordecai Stolk, Coulombe, and rookie tandem Eric Bowers and Jamie McDonald in recent weeks, the pitching staff has finally lowered its ERA under nine.

“We’ve been pitching pretty well and the defense has been decent recently,” said Cooke. “We can’t expect to score nine or 10 runs every game, so we really need pitching.”

Coker, Goodwin hit century mark

Juniors Jeff Coker and Luke Goodwin both collected their 100th career hits Thursday against Wofford.

Goodwin, who started his college career at Wake Forest, is only in his second season as a Wildcat. He leads the team with a .375 batting average and is slugging nearly .800.

Gus Quattlebaum needs just six homers to tie the all-time Davidson mark, currently held by Dave Turgeon (‘87) with 38.

Brad Edwards would become the Wildcats’ career RBI record-holder with 18 over the final month of the season.

Sweep
from page 16

A two-run seventh gave Davidson a commanding 7-1 lead going into the eighth in Saturday’s opener.

But the Herd (4-23, 2-10) tied the game with a six-run outburst in the top of the eighth and added a go-ahead tally in the ninth.

Center fielder Luke Goodwin, the Wildcats’ leading batsman, wasted no time bringing Davidson back, leading off the bottom of the inning with a homer to right.

A Marshall pitching change brought nothing but more trouble. Quattlebaum was hit by a pitch, heavy-hitting first baseman Brad Edwards doubled, and Jeff Coker was intentionally walked, setting the stage for Tyler, who had entered the game as right fielder when Quattlebaum was summoned to pitch in the ninth.

Quattlebaum, best known for his lethal bat, ended up picking up the win on the mound.

In the nightcap, a seven-inning affair, Davidson’s offense exploded for three runs in the first, two in the third, and three more in the fourth, and the Wildcats coasted to the 8-5 victory.

Rookie hurler Eric Bowers notched his second win of the season, giving up three earned runs in five-plus innings of work.

Staff ace Jon Coulombe logged a complete game Sunday, giving up just three earned runs and walking no one.

“He did a great job,” Cooke praised. “He’s been throwing well and had great command today.”

The 6-foot-7 senior also had help from his teammates. Shortstop Ben Brown, designated hitter Brian Penny, catcher Dom Talvacchio, Quattlebaum, and Coker all had a pair of base hits, and Edwards dropped a two-run homer just inside the left field foul pole in the first.

But all would have been for naught were it not for Tyler’s fourth hit — and first long-ball — of the spring.

“His work ethic has put him in a position where he’s physically big and strong enough to do some things like that,” Cooke said on Sunday of Tyler, who is also a backup goalie on the soccer team. “He’s certainly maximized his opportunities. He played well (March 15-16) against Furman and got it going this weekend pretty well, too.”

Rain
from page 16

Tyler — who is quickly making game-winners his trademark — lofted a sacrifice fly to center.

A two-run double to deep left by Kurt Davis tied the second game at 4-4 after four innings, but VMI took over from there.

The Keydets tallied four runs in the sixth and Adams controlled the usually fearsome Davidson lineup the rest of the way, holding the Wildcats’ big guns - Goodwin, Quattlebaum, and Edwards - to a combined 1-for-12.

UMOJA FESTIVAL

CAMPUS WIDE EVENTS

SUNDAY, APRIL 6..........POET, JESSICA CARE MOORE

BSC HOUSE
8:00 PM

MONDAY, APRIL 7..........MOVIE SPONSORED BY BSC IN THE

900 ROOM, COLLEGE UNION
“YOUNG SOUL REBELS”

THURSDAY, APRIL 10..........MOVIE SPONSORED BY

BSC IN THE OUTPOST
“DAUGHTERS OF THE DUST”

FRIDAY, APRIL 11..........CHRIS THOMPSON AND THE CULTURAL ENSEMBLE

AFRICAN DANCE GROUP

TBA -- LOOK FOR FLYERS

BSC HOUSE
7:30 PM

SATURDAY, APRIL 12..........BLOCK PARTY

SUNDAY, APRIL 13..........GOSPEL FEST

CHAMBERS GALLERY
4:00 PM