THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Life sciences building update

By ALLISON DOLPH
Staff Writer

The Baker-Watt Science Center will be completed in the fall of 1998. In the meantime, rigorous planning and fundraising are in motion to help realize this $12-million project. Dr. Lennox Baker ‘63 and his wife Fran offered a $2.5-million gift to name the complex, whose title memorializes the couple’s respective fathers, Lennox Baker, Sr. and James Watt.

Once constructed, the complex will be the physical conglomeration of the current building and the future Watson Life Sciences Building, named by Carolyn and the late Wayne Watson, who are parents of Davidson alumni. In addition to these prominent donors, a steering committee of nine or ten alumni is also conducting fundraising efforts. Dr. Richard Brubaker ‘59 and Sam Upchurch ‘74 are the co-chairs of this committee. The steering committee has been instrumental in writing letters and making personal calls to alumni who are physicians or were psychology majors. So far, $9.28 million in gifts and pledges has been raised. The Kresge Foundation has proposed a matching gift of $750,000. In order to get the Kresge gift, however, the college first must raise $2 million dollars. Receiving the matching gift would bring the total funds to $12 million. The additional money is expected to be raised from Davidson graduates who are now physicians.

Hugofest will include Davidson juggling championships

COLLEGE RELATIONS
Press Release

All students are invited to compete in the Davidson College Joggling Championships at halftime of Saturday’s football game against Maryville at Richardson Field. The race will be 100 yards, from goal line to goal line, and a men’s champion and women’s champion will be crowned. Balls will be provided at the starting line for entrants, and a prize from Ben & Jerry’s will await the two winners.

The race will be part of the halftime juggling activities connected with the weekend’s Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival. Up to 150 jugglers from as far away as Wisconsin and Florida will begin arriving on campus Friday afternoon for the event, which is sponsored by the College Union and coordinated by Bill Giduz, college news director and longtime juggling instructor. Giduz said Davidson students are invited to join in any of the weekend’s activities. Headquarters for the festival will be Johnston Gymnasium. A schedule of workshops in many forms of object manipulation will be posted in the gym and water-injected tennis balls will be available for those who don’t already have props.

About a half-dozen juggling vendors are expected at the fest, and will be set up in the gym for sales of everything from juggling props to clothing and miscellaneous fun toys. The juggling activity will add to the fun of the College’s annual Lunar Luau Friday night on Richardson Field. Students are invited to join the jugglers in the gym during the party, and a display of fire juggling at midnight will conclude the Luau.

On Saturday morning, jugglers will host a “Learn to Juggle” session on the Village Green from 9 a.m. to noon. Activities then shift to the football field and the halftime show. Giduz said the joggling races will be the first halftime activity. They will be followed by a round or two of juggling combat, in which club jugglers attempt to make each other drop. Last one juggling wins. The show will conclude with an ultimate photo opportunity — The Big Toss-Up. Jugglers will gather in front of the grandstands and toss their props into the air as high as possible at the same time — then duck!

Saturday night features the Hurricane Hugo All-Star Revue, presented by professional comedy juggler Mark Nizer in Hodson Hall beginning at 8 p.m. Nizer performs regularly at colleges and universities across the country, and his skillful juggling technique made him the International Jugglers Association 1990 Individual Championship winner. Tickets for the show are free, but must be picked up at the College Union ticket office. The evening will conclude with informal juggling performances in the 900 Room from 10 p.m. The gym will...be open Sunday afternoon from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. At 1 p.m., jugglers will participate in a series of juggling games. They include endurance contests in juggling five balls and five clubs, a blindfold three-ball juggle, joggling races, distance club passing contests, and an obstacle course juggling race. Co-sponsors of the festival include Ben & Jerry’s, the Charlotte Jugglers Association, the Davidson Parks & Recreation Department, LaRocks Magic Shop, and HiTops Graphic Design. For more information on the festival, contact Bill Giduz; Box 443; Davidson NC 28036; 704/892-1296 (h); bigiduz@davidson.edu, or visit the festival web page at http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/relations/Giduzhp/hugo/hugofest.html

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1997

Mother Theresa dies
Mother Theresa died Friday of cardiac arrest at the age of 87. This brave woman dominated the ideal image of the church for many years. Once a believer in fascism, Mother Theresa devoted her life to the Roman Catholic church. Her mission and position were recently given to a younger sister. She spent the majority of her life giving to others and showing love to all human beings. Ironically, Mother Theresa was to speak at Princess Diana’s funeral. Her legacy will live on in the hearts of all people, Catholic or not, because of her generosity and kindness.

Britain mourns Princess Diana’s death
Britain is struggling to cope with the tragic death of Princess Diana. The royal family has stated its utmost sadness and loss over the death of the princess. Diana’s sons, Princes William and Harry, are to stay with their father and their grandparents at Balmoral, the royal vacation house. Several photographers are being questioned for the crash. It has been reported that the driver was drunk and driving at speeds of 120-140 kilometers per hour.

Plane crashes in Cambodia
All but three passengers of a 66-passenger plane died Wednesday in a plane crash in Cambodia. One toddler and two adults survived. The cause of the crash on the Soviet-built Tupolev-134 is yet to be determined, though it was raining quite heavily at the time. People looted the scene and snatched money from the dead, stole luggage, and took parts of the plane before police officers cleared the area.

National

Cigarette prices on the rise
Wholesale prices on cigarettes rose an average of 7.6 percent Sept. 2, a move initiated by the nation’s leading cigarette makers. The increase adds about seven cents a pack to the retail price. The increase is the largest to date. Prices went up three cents per pack in May 1995, four cents in April 1996, and five cents in March of this year. The price increases are expected to bring in about $1.6 billion over the next 12 months, revenue desperately needed by the tobacco industry to help pay for settlements with certain states. The settlements are to reimburse the states for the medical costs in the treatment of sick smokers. Florida and Mississippi, for example, are to receive a combined total of $14.7 billion. A proposed $368.5 billion national accord, subject to approval by Congress, calls for the cigarette companies to settle state-filed lawsuits, restrict marketing, and pay fines if there is no decline in smoking by young people. The proposal also protects cigarette companies from lawsuits and punitive damages. This recent price increase is supposedly one of many to come, as the tobacco industry tries to counter increased government pressure. Federal excise tax, currently 24 cents a pack, will rise to 39 cents on Jan. 1, 2002.

Further problems for the Democratic Party
Al Gore, who has recently been investigated for improper campaign financing, could be finding more Republican congresspeople at his door. Gore apparently asked an Indonesian firm to hire a Baltimore firm, Ellicott Machine Corp., that specializes in dredging equipment. The Indonesian company then hired the firm. A week later, the president of Ellicott Machine Corp. donated $15,000 to the DNC. The Senate is investigating whether or not Gore used his influence to bribe fund-raising money. The Attorney General is now deciding whether or not to seek an independent counsel, which she is opposed to, though pressure is being placed on her to do so. This counsel would investigate Gore’s fundraising practices.

New York Times