The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

"The South’s Foremost College Weekly"

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

Now on TUESDAYS

Around the world. Davidson, from France to Kenya. NEWS 3

Taking the plunge. In defense of experiential learning on the streets. OPINIONS 7

Davidson vs. big city. The great Boston-Mecklenburg County debate. A&L 11

Feasting on the ACC. Men’s soccer stuns Carolina and Wake. SPORTS 16

Bill Giduz

Seniors Matthew Hobbie and Carrie Van Deest, representing the Independents and Sigma Phi Epsilon, respectively, are crowned Homecoming King and
Queen during the festivities at halftime of Saturday’s football game.

Saintsing proposes call boxes resolution

Senior president takes heat

By Jessica GOODSON
News Editor

Senior class president Tim Saintsing gave an address at the Oct. 7 Student Government Association meeting imploring the SGA to
utilize its committees and councils through the routine creation of resolutions.

“Resolutions are the fuels that make the committee system run,” he said. “Without resolutions, the SGA is stagnant.”

Saintsing invited members of the SGA to join him in what freshman senator Jehan Shamsid-Deen described as “streamlining this bad
boy.” Subsequently, Saintsing presented two resolutions to the SGA, one of which charged the Student Advisory Council to the Director
of Public Safety to test each emergency call box on Davidson’s main and lake campuses, to establish a regular schedule
of both testing and maintenance of the call boxes, and to maintain an escort service that responds immediately to any
and all requests.

Insofar as its content, the resolution was met with resistance by the SAC to the Director of Campus Safety, co-chaired
by Lucian Dervan and Heather Brown. Dervan and Brown spoke against the resolution, citing the fact that call boxes are
already checked on a regular basis.

“The resolution is full of misinformation and poorly constructed,” Dervan said, “I was disappointed that Tim didn’t retract the resolution
and write a new one that dealt with a substantial issue that would have made the resolution actually address something.”

Brown said she felt the resolution was a slap in the face of the council.

“This has to do with what I want the SGA to become,” Saintsing said. “My motive was not to make
an example of this particular committee. My purpose for bringing these resolutions to the table was two-fold: to address two
legitimate student concerns and to encourage senators to utilize the committee system that is in place and has been in
place for years.”

Brown was “upset” that she and Dervan were never contacted by Saintsing.

“The question (about call box operation) was never addressed to us,” she said. “At an SGA meeting about two weeks
before we met with Ray Thrower, we asked if people were having concerns with public safety. Tim knew he was
writing this resolution, yet did not raise those concerns at that time.”

Before it was submitted, Dervan and Brown discredited the resolution with a reminder that call boxes are all functioning, that
they are controlled through a central computer which performs a daily self-diagnostic, and that maintenance manually checks the boxes each
Sunday. They also reported that there are three ways to reach the escort service: 911 (Char.-Meck. Police), call boxes, and
2178 (Campus Police).

“One of the main objectives of the council is to be proactive and not just reactive,” said Brown, who added
that the SAC has demonstrated this quality by working to get better lighting in the senior apartments this year and
in the past by getting card access on Chambers.

Ray Thrower, Director of Campus Security, said heCommunicates with the SAC on a regular basis: “They told me about the
resolution, and I couldn't understand why there was a resolution on something we were already doing. It was my understanding
that the committee had already advised the SGA that this was already being done.” Although the boxes at Lake Campus
and behind the admissions office were previously defunct, a mechanic was flown in to repair the boxes. Thrower said the
factory offered this service at no charge. “We were having problems with lightning,” he said. “Boxes were being hit despite
surge protection. Since the engineer looked it over, we've had no problems.”

See Call Boxes on page 4

SGA investigates payment of inaugural meals
By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

“I’m sorry to do this to you, President Vagt,” senior class president Tim Saintsing said jokingly at the Oct. 7th
SGA meeting as he presented a resolution to investigate how two public meals during the inaugural festivities were paid for.
According to Saintsing’s resolution, the steak dinner and post-inauguration lunch were advertised by the Inauguration Committee as free. Saintsing pointed
out that both Vail Commons and the Patterson Court eating houses were asked not to serve meals, and that the
inaugural meals were open to the public. Patterson Court houses were not asked to help pay for either of the
meals, Saintsing further charged, yet all holders of meal plans at the Commons had two meals removed, regardless of whether
they attended the meals or not.

Saintsing proposed to “charge the Auxiliary Services Committee to investigate why only meal plan holders had to pay for these
meals,” and to investigate why none of the Patterson Court houses helped fund the meals. Saintsing also asked that the
possibility of meal plan-holders being repaid for the two meals be considered.

Barbara Metzler, Manager of Vail Commons, said that there may have been a misunderstanding as a result of the “back-and-forth”
decisions made during the planning of the inaugural festivities, and that she was not aware students thought the meals were
free. Metzler explained that the dinner on Thursday was more than double what a normal meal at the Commons would
cost, and that some of the Commons’ catering funds were used to subsidize the meal to keep the cost down
for students. The intent, Metzler said, was to have a special meal for students. “We felt this was something we
wanted to do,” Metzler said.

According to Metzler, the Commons offered to help the Inauguration Committee pay for Friday’s post-inauguration lunch to help offset expenses
for the meal. Metzler said that only 17 students came to her attention as having problems as a result of
the removal of the two meals from their weekly allowance, and that none of those students were turned away for
the remaining four meals at the Commons after the inaugural meals. “We felt badly that there was a misunderstanding,” Metzler
said. “Hopefully, we covered our bases.”

According to Metzler, there are currently no plans to refund the two meals to plan-holders because “nobody really lost out
on anything, that we know of.” Representatives from the Inauguration Committee and Patterson Court could not be reached for comment.

EDITORIAL... 6
REP... 6
OPED... 7
SORORITIES... 9
ARTS & LIVING... 10
SPORTS... 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
