Jessica Goodson of the Davidsonian recently spoke with SGA President Buster Burk, Vice President Ann Harriot Fisher, Chancellor Joslyn Ogden, and Senior Class President Tim Saintsing about restructuring the SGA through resolutions, the committee system, and student representation.

The Davidsonian: To begin, what have your greatest challenges been in office?

Ogden: My role as a mediator has been very challenging.

Burk: For me, it’s been trying to do a good job with SGA and balance everything else.

Saintsing: I would second Buster, but I would also say that it’s been extremely challenging attempting to work inside an organization that has so much potential and so much room for improvement, and trying to exploit that potential and improve the system.

O: When you try to change an organization, you’re walking on a tightrope. You've got a group of people that expect radical change and another group that want to maintain the status quo at whatever cost, and so you have to figure out how to communicate to both groups, have them see the light at the end of the tunnel, and then go through the same tunnel to get there.

B: And there’s also dealing with how to get it done. A lot of people don’t realize that, if SGA comes across as an organization that is antagonistic, nothing is going to get done. Sometimes you have to be really aggressive with your complaints, but at the same time, you have to do it with a bit of eloquence.

D: So do you perceive the SGA as divided? Is there a clear delineation of radicals who want change and passivists who want to maintain the status quo? Or do you see these divisions as external to the SGA?

B: I don’t think there are many senators who think Davidson is absolutely perfect. Certainly, Davidson has its issues, and I think people who want to be part of the SGA want to voice those issues.

S: I tend to agree, but the way this campus works is that some people complain and others don’t. I think that the people who act on those issues and attempt to fix the things that they see as broken are perceived as radicals when they are simply taking the initiative to change the things people are criticizing. It’s really a division between people who do things or don’t, and unfortunately, there’s not too many of the former and more of the latter. Therefore, those who do act are ostracized.

O: I don’t feel like there’s a dividing line between people who do things and don’t. I think we frequently use this idea of apathy when, in fact, we don’t know what people are interested in. I think there is a group on campus that recognizes problems and voices them and wants to fix them. Their voices are extremely necessary. And there are a lot of people who frankly don’t care about the SGA — they’re involved in other things. Some people are involved in active organizations and are willing to work within the system. I think that both groups are necessary components to Davidson or else we could never find the middle ground.

D: So the two groups — those who recognize the system’s problems and those who are willing to work within the system — function as a kind of a point/counter-point or checks and balances.

O: Definitely.

Fisher: I don’t know if the groups necessarily have different goals or objectives in mind, maybe the means of getting there is the difference.

D: At the last SGA meeting, someone referred to the resolutions as “complaints.” I wondered if you thought of resolutions as complaints or as inquiries. It seems that some senators feel the resolutions are accusatory, whereas others view them as simply the method of communication between constituents, senators, and committees.

F: I think of a resolution as being an official concern, and I think the SGA does a great job of providing outlets for a complaint, if you want to call it that. If two committees can best be chaired by the same person, then we want to concentrate that person on both committees.

D: Will that involve reducing and merging the committees?

B: In some respects, but we’re talking more about merging the chairs of committees.

F: The Intercouncil — a group consisting of all the committee chairs — is working right now to consolidate. At the last meeting, everyone turned in four or five goals of their committees. We're trying to get committees to be more active and more in tune with what their goals are.

D: About two meetings ago, Joslyn asked people to preface their responses to resolutions with “I am speaking in favor of” or “against,” but it was like pulling teeth. Do you anticipate changes in parliamentary procedure?

S: We are slowly phasing in correct parliamentary procedure and requiring the senators to become more aware of how parliamentary procedure works.

S: It’s also important to keep in mind that, if you have a system of 25 committees, use them and use them as they’re supposed to be used. Resolutions are the SGA’s official way of saying we are going to use the committees and use them to address substantial issues that were initiated by the student body. Committees are vehicles for addressing concerns.

O: The SGA is a work in progress. Every year different issues come up, and I think that too big a deal has been made out of the resolution thing. There’s nothing radical about it. Just go back a few years and there are...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Lots of resolutions at every meeting. I think people have very short memories. We’re going to strengthen, restructure, and streamline the committee system; we’re not going to abandon it. Of course, we desire perfection, but I realize we’re never going to make it. Striving for it, though, is one of our goals. We want to be efficient, but we are a work in progress and we aren’t perfect.

B: When things are brought up, it’s easy to present it as a resolution and not to look into it. Maybe looking into it is the role of the committees, but I thought — and in some respects I still do think — that the first two resolutions (inaugural dinner and call box resolutions) could have been easily solved with just a few phone calls.

S: If I had brought them up as forum issues, I would have gotten a verbal answer, whereas now I can take a written report to my constituents that have the concern and say, “Here it is,” and there should be no worries. What Ann Harriot would like to do with the committee system is to recognize its potential and then decide how to go about acting to bring that potential to light. It is a very difficult challenge.

F: We’re revamping the whole committee system.

O: Paralleling it more with the vision in Robert’s Rules. The people who authored the committee system didn’t take into account the way Robert’s Rules suggests to build that type of system.

B: Mainly with the committees, we want people to serve on committees where their knowledge is necessary. It works during our workshops.

O: In the SGA, we associate personalities way too much with what we do. During debate, senators shouldn’t even refer to people’s names; the Rules recommend that we don’t. Instead of calling people by their first names, we should say “the person that spoke before me.” It’s not a personal battle. We’re dealing with issues — not with personalities.

D: Speaking of personalities, do you think senatorial elections are popularity contests rather than a product of attentiveness to speeches? I was surprised that freshman candidates are not required to attend an SGA meeting before they run. Do you think that they can successfully represent their class?

O: I hesitate to say it’s a popularity contest. Some candidates work really hard campaigning. It’s almost a diligence contest, and that is a skill you need to have in the SGA. I think, idealistically, making the speeches mandatory is a good idea. It can only, in my mind, get better by making it a tradition. Having freshmen come to an SGA meeting would be a good idea, but it should be suggested, so that they have to take the initiative.

B: One of the freshman candidates didn’t attend the speeches, didn’t make a speech, and he’s still a senator. I guess he was just that popular or just that handsome. Some of them just shine more than others, but I don’t know how we could do it any other way. Freshman issues are very different from any other issues. As soon as possible, we want to have freshmen in the SGA to voice their opinions. Then you can tell who really cared about the elections.

D (directed at Burk): What was your primary purpose in running for SGA President, and do you feel like you’ve accomplished your campaign goals now, in the last third of your term?

B: The thing I wanted to do is represent students in a manner that represents most everyone. I regard any student’s concern as the equivalent of my best friend’s concern. I think I have succeeded in that respect. It made me really happy to have people come up to me after the inauguration and say, “Nobody could have represented the students better, because you represent us exactly how we want to be represented.” It’s kind of secondary to being chair of the SGA, but I see my role as representative as very important. You have to support everybody no matter how vehement their arguments are, but you also have to be able to talk through it with the SGA and the administration, and not come across as someone who’s going to break their knees if they don’t do something about it. A lot of senators come to the SGA very opinionated, and that’s fine. I have my own opinions, but at the same time, I am not so opinionated that it consumes me and affects relationships between me and the administration. The SGA has the power to represent student voices, but we still have to get the recommendations and the OKs from administrators of the College. And in my opinion, I think I have done well at maintaining good relationships with the administration. At Davidson, we represent a lot of different opinions and people, but we have to work as a whole.

Are You Considering Professional School?

HARVARD UNIVERSITY’S JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT

Nonprofits looking for future leaders in Public Affairs. We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy, with concentrations offered in:
- Criminal Justice
- Energy & Environmental Policy
- Government & Business
- Health Policy
- Housing & Community Development
- Human Services, Labor & Education
- International Affairs & Security
- International Development
- International Trade & Finance
- Press & Politics
- Science & Technology
- Transportation
- Urban Economic Development

INTERESTED?... Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will visit your campus on:
DATE: Tuesday, November 4, 1997
TIME: 4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.
LOCATION: Contact Career Services for Location

ALL STUDENTS ? ALL YEARS ? ALL MAJORS