THE DAVIDSONIAN — MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

The responsibilities of all and the power of one

By this time, you have all heard about the death of 20-year-old Benjamin Wynne at Louisiana State University in late
August. Benjamin was found on the floor of his fraternity house in the early morning hours of Tuesday, August 26,
1997, along with about a dozen other students who were passed out from excessive drinking. Four other students were hospitalized,
and Benjamin was pronounced dead as a result of acute alcohol poisoning. His blood alcohol level was reported to be
.588, almost six times what is considered legally drunk.

Benjamin Wynne was a sophomore returning to Louisiana State and had just accepted a bid to join Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity. The drinking that occurred on the night of August 25 was said to have been in celebration of “Bid
Night,” LSU’s version of our own traditions such as First Night Down and Self-Selection Night. It was intended to be
an introduction to fraternity life and a celebration of becoming affiliated. However, as a result of out-of-control drinking, this exciting
night that Benjamin should have never forgotten became one that he will never have the opportunity to remember.

At its heart, this issue isn’t at all about SAE, or even Greeks in general; it’s about college students and
the culture in which we all live that supports alcohol abuse and encourages students to drink in excess. It’s also
an issue of responsibility, both individual and collective. Was this 20-year-old LSU sophomore responsible for how much he drank that
night? Yes. Are the individuals who provided the alcohol to Benjamin responsible for his death? You bet. Were his fraternity
brothers and those with him that night responsible for looking out for him? You better believe it. Would things have
been different that night at LSU if someone had told Benjamin that he was drinking too much? Would Benjamin be
alive today if another student would have offered to walk him home before he had the chance to drink enough
alcohol to stop his heart? There are no answers to these questions, but it is certainly frustrating to think that
perhaps one individual saying the words, “I think you’ve had too much tonight, let’s go home” might have saved a
young man’s life.

Each student at Davidson carries some amount of responsibility for the campus culture and the standards of what is and
what is not acceptable behavior for Davidson students. We’re all in this together. We all need to watch out for
one another and prevent a situation such as this from happening on our campus. Just because it hasn’t happened here
at Davidson College doesn’t mean that it can’t. Now is the time to educate yourself, your hallmates, your fellow fraternity
or eating house members, your teammates, and your fellow students about just how dangerous excessive drinking can be and just
how quickly a night of celebration can go irreversibly wrong.

As First Night Down approaches, keep in mind the responsibility that each of us has for ourselves and those around
us. Although First Night Down and Self-Selection Night certainly receive the most hype of events down on the Court, responsibility
and caution need to extend beyond these events. Incidents including alcohol poisoning, sexual assault, and other dangerous behaviors can happen
at any time and at any place. It is up to each of us to ensure that our community remains
safe and supportive for everyone.

Miscellaneous musings

On my mind:
* It’s nice to see that the college has finally made a strong statement condemning the use of drugs on
campus. An extra twenty pages of coverage in the Red Book all but confirms the fact that drugs indeed are
really bad. When it all comes down to it, I consider myself a man of policy, and I am positive
that from this point on, no Davidson College student will ever smoke pot again. Let’s celebrate our newfound purity by
burning all the incense that until now has been stored in our desk drawers.

* I also want to complain about PDA (public displays of affection) in Chambers. I can’t begin to tell you
how many times last year that I saw a young couple embrace or kiss before they went to class. All
I can say to that is “Get a life!” Now that I think about it, I am not even sure
if I can tolerate hand-holding as a viable option. Tell me, honestly, is there anything romantic about going to class?
Furthermore, the chambermaids of chastity do not approve of sexual activity under their roof. If steps are not taken to
curb this ridiculousness, the only justifiable and foreseeable action I can think of would be a ten-page “petting” section in
next year’s Red Book. Is this what you want? I suggest that you frown upon all your friends that do
that French kiss thing in Chambers. If not, you can expect life here at Davidson to continue on its downward
spiral. I leave the choice up to you. Make a difference. Apathy kills.

* Leaving my bitterness behind, I turn to a heartwarming story regarding the Carolina Panthers. The team itself can’t score
a touchdown, but the organization is deserving of recognition. Last Sunday I participated in a car wash at the Wendy’s
in Huntersville. For five or six hours I, along with thirty other fraternity brothers and two girls dressed like Wendy,
jumped around nearby streets accosting and amusing motorists, hoping that they could take five minutes out of their day to
have their vehicles washed and in the process contribute to a worthy cause. All the money earned at the event
went to an employee named Randall who is trying to raise funds for a life-saving multiple organ transplant.

The highlight of the day for everyone came when Sir Purr, the mascot of the Carolina Panthers, appeared. He stayed
about two hours, harassing cars in the drive-thru and helping us wash cars. Sir Purr even found time to antagonize
a hurried Richard Terry as he waited in line for his Kiddie Frosty. Apparently, Mr. Terry doesn’t enjoy being cuddled
by a large, furry animal. Nevertheless, Sir Purr was a giant success and a welcome presence in a world filled
with so much pessimism. Kudos go to the Panthers!and violent behavior can just as well take place on Second Night
Down or at any time during the semester. In fact, they are perhaps more likely to occur at these times
since we are all less watchful. The beginning of a new school year is a fun and exciting time for
all students, whether new or returning. Have a great time. Celebrate with friends. Make memories. Most of all, please be
safe and responsible. Remember that it might only take a few concerned words from one individual to make an immeasurable
difference in someone’s life. Comments are welcome at jibarber@davidson.edu.

Hobbie does his own research

Last week, one article (other than my own) demanded my attention above others. For those of you that did not
read, “Strange man wanders campus, verbally accosts student in Union,” it chronicled the adventures of a “5-foot-8 Caucasian male in
his late 20s with curly brown hair” in and around the Davidson community a few weeks ago. He did a
number of weird things like call the town librarian “the anti-Christ,” undress a female junior with his eyes, and tell
a student in the Union Cafe that “he was going to take him out to the football field and ‘kick
his a—.’” The article disturbed me for a number of reasons. Mainly because the comfortable, safe, warm-fuzzy feeling of the
Union had been violated by some “freak.” Also, I was upset that this fellow took the title for which I
have been vying for more than three years now: campus freak. That jerk!

This man and his experiences caused me to think a lot about freaks this week — and not just because
he fascinated me, so I went to the town library to investigate. Although scared of what might happen, I approached
the librarian’s desk and asked her, “Are you the one he called the anti-Christ?” When she said yes, I asked,
“Well, are you the anti-Christ?” She answered, “No... I don’t think so.” Mmmh. After this cryptic, somewhat mysterious answer, I
searched the library’s holdings for more evidence that the town might point to the town librarian as the beginning of
the end of the world. Both books about the anti-Christ in the card catalogue belonged to another library, but I
did find a great book on ceramics under the call number of the beast, 666. Notes on “firing clay bodies”
graced the back. Sounds like hellfire to me!

Before I left, I also applied some numerology — i.e. calculus — to the “campus freak’s” name, Dwayne. If you
assign a corresponding number to each letter of the 26 letters of the alphabet, and apply them to the name
you get the set: four, 23, one, 25, 14, and five. By adding these together, you get 72. Then if
you divide by the number of letters in the name, six, you get 12. By dividing this by two and
then multiplying that answer by 111, you get 666! Creepy!

Even after this important discovery, I left the library somewhat more confused than before. Luckily, the librarian gave me a
great lead in my search. She said that this strange man had repeatedly used the library’s computers to write religious
texts. So off I went to the Internet! On Yahoo, our trusty web searcher, there are only nineteen site matches
for “anti-Christ.” Although none contain information on the mysterious “Dwayne” and half of them are for Marilyn Manson, the ones
left over are some real doozies. There is a site that claims that The Koran is the testimony of the
anti-Christ. This same site claims that people should be more open-minded. Yeah, man.

The “Top ten list of possible anti-Christs” ranges from Mickey Mouse down to No. 1, Kathie Lee Gifford. The “David
Hasselhoff is the anti-Christ” site is a must-read, but the most amazing of the websites is www.Antichrist.com. The site, created
on June 6, 1996, holds pages and pages of text about how the author, a resident of Las Vegas, is
the resurrection of John Lennon and the anti-Christ. He, John Lennon/anti-Christ, signed the introduction to his pages of Bible verses
and Beatles lyrics, “Yours truly, David, the anti-Christ. P.S. Sorry I’m late.” According to him, he is one of the
24 elders in the Bible’s Book of Revelation. “These are the end times,” he states, “and we have risen.”

Pretty scary, but before you tell granny to get her gun you have to remember a couple of things. First,
David, the anti-Christ was only rated number four out of 10 for possible anti-Christs. You have Kathie Lee, Bill Gates,
and Dennis Rodman (and maybe the librarian) to worry about before him. Second, unless you’re really enjoying life in a
beautiful and plush private college, the end of the world is a good thing. Uh-oh.

As the millennium approaches, websites and freaks announcing the anti-Christ and the end of the world will only increase. “Heaven’s
Gate” was only the beginning. We must band together to keep our sanity at Davidson, to encourage each other to
be insane once in a while, and guard against freaks on campus that might expand our minds. Students, we must
unite!

In the meantime, join some other “campus freaks” like myself at the Union this week where Katie Kostner will speak
on date rape, the film Cool Hand Luke will be shown, a hypnotist will, well, hypnotize you, and coffee and
doughnuts will keep you going at Coffeehouse and Jumpin’ Java. Check your Union Calendar for times and places. And I'll
see you at the Union — at least until the apocalypse.
