7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Richard Prior: the man, the music, the orchestra

Davidson’s composer-in-residence offered semester residency at Oxford

By ANNE STANCIL
Staff Writer

“The Orchestra, like any musical ensemble, is not a faceless corporeal entity, but a dynamic collection of individuals giving of their talents and sensibilities to produce the whole.” Philosopher of prose, perhaps, but most certainly a philosopher of music, Davidson’s own Richard Prior epitomizes the title Musical Artist. A delicate combination of commanding presence, dry British wit, and graceful sensitivity, Prior leads the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra to greatness season after season. In his fifth year at Davidson, Prior reflects on the past, present, and future of his music as well as the orchestra.

For the readers who do not know this wild and crazy character, here is a mini-biography of the man known only to some students as “that funny British guy.” Originally from Royal Tonbridge Wells, England (which is in East England in Kent about thirty-five miles south of London), Prior obtained a rich musical education in the high Anglican Cathedrals. This background prepared him for his undergraduate studies at the University of Leeds, where he was awarded the Lord Edward Boyle Choral Scholarship due to his outstanding choral abilities. While studying at Leeds, Prior pursued a degree in music, majoring in performance and the noble art of composition.

After having conquered the vast undergraduate realms of musical studies, it was off to Nottingham (the famed home of Robin Hood and his merry men) for further study of composition at the University of Nottingham, where he also conducted the University Orchestra. In his three years in Nottingham (when he was not robbing the rich to save the poor), Prior perfected his art of composition with American composer James Fulkerson. Two of his symphonies and numerous choral pieces were performed while studying in Nottingham.

Having triumphed in England, Prior came to the United States to share his rich traditions with American students. Immediately immersed in American academia, Prior spent two years at Franklin and Marshall University (Penn.). There he served as two sabbatical replacements, the first of which earned him the title Artist in Residence. At F&M, Prior taught composition and theory, as well as guest conducted the college orchestra and choir.

Finally, Prior arrived to the Southern hospitality of Davidson College. In his second year, Prior added another jewel to his already decorated crown with the reestablishment of the Symphony Orchestra. After a forty-year hiatus, the orchestra was brought back to life and grows stronger every year. In addition to directing, Prior teaches a variety of classes including composition and twentieth-century music. The past four years, Prior has served as Composer in Residence at Davidson. His compositions have been heard and performed around the world. The last major work was premiered in the spring of 1996 right here in Davidson. “Phoenix Rising,” a Concerto for Piano and Orchestra was presented by the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra and the beloved Jim Swisher, Pianist in Residence.

This semester Prior leaves the orchestra and returns to his native England to pursue his compositions. Having been granted a junior leave of absence by the Dean of Faculty and the Music Department, Prior has accepted a prestigious Visiting Fellowship in Music at Oxford University. Perhaps one of the youngest individuals to receive this great honor, Prior will work on a chamber opera, which is in collaboration with Rupert Barber of Davidson’s Theater Department, and a commissioned piece for the Charlotte Symphony to be premiered in theFall of 1998. He will also be working with the Oxford University orchestra and lecturing from time to time. This Oxford fellowship is not enough for the English music gurus: Prior has been invited by the Royal Academy of Music and Trinity College in London to lecture about his contemporary music. Leaving the orchestra temporarily for one semester will be hard for Prior, but, in his own words, “We are very privileged to be able to draw upon the services of David Tang, conducting assistant of the Charlotte Symphony, and our own Aaron Lesher, assistant conductor of the Davidson Orchestra.”

Each year has been special for the orchestra. Whether featuring Davidson students, faculty, or professional musicians, the orchestra commands an audience of over 1,000 and has been featured on WDAV. Still riding high from the momentous performance of Mozart’s “Requiem” last spring, the Orchestra gallops into another exciting season. On the program this year will be two pieces by Mozart, Berlioz’s “Summer Nights,” Vivaldi’s Four Seasons, Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, Mahler, and a concerto featuring the winner of Davidson’s first concerto competition. This season features many of Davidson’s wonderful student musicians. Prior is very proud of the progress the orchestra has made thus far: “The orchestra is unique because it embraces people of all levels of ability and background. A vast majority of the members are not music majors; they just have a love for music.” Reflecting on the orchestra and music in general, Prior may wax philosophic; however, he has great passion for the art he has perfected through his compositions and conducting. The orchestra will miss him, but sends him off to commit great acts of music.

ARTS & LIVING
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Art exhibits continue throughout the week in the VAC, 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. daily.
Jumpin’ Java hosts a poetry reading to go with your Tropicana Twister at the Outpost, 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
Coffeehouse has actual Krispy Kreme doughnuts for sale in the 900 Room, 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m.
Jumpin’ Java has no clean mugs at the Outpost, 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
Pet-a-Pet holds an organizational meeting with Tarik and Josh B., M.A.C., in the 900 Room, 9:00 p.m.
WALT features Brad Shipman’s hip-hop/funk/jazz/hardcore radio show on 1610 AM, 3:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.

WEDNESDAY

Katie Koestner speaks out about date rape in Love Auditorium, 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m.
Women’s soccer plays the Pirates of East Carolina U. on Richardson Field, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Volleyball takes on the UNC-G Spartans in Belk Arena, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Dahn Hak Meditation Club holds an informational meeting in the Dance Studio at Baker Sports Complex, 8:00 p.m.
Cool Hand Luke starring Paul Newman shows in the 900 Room, 9:30 p.m.
“Global Trends 2005” discusses all kinds of current events in the 900 Room, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
FCA meets at Johnston Gym, 7:30 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Project Life Pasta Dinner gives everyone a Commons dinner alternative on the Vail Commons Patio (or the Outpost in case of rain), 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m.
Cool Hand Luke plays again for those of you who had too much homework the first time in the 900 Room, 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
Ed Anderson tries not to break the studio on WALT 1610 AM, 12:00-1:00 a.m.

Senior Tailgate Party invites all seniors to partake of free food and general mirth at Martin Court Building F, 11:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m.
Football holds its centennial celebration in conjunction with its game against the University of the South (Sewanee) at Richardson Field, 1:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m.
Hypnotist toys with your subconscious in the 900 Room, 8:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m.

WALT 1610 AM features Derek Kverno’s jazz show, 1:00-3:00 p.m.
Men’s soccer vs. Furman at Richardson Field, 2:00-4:00 p.m.
Milton Masciadri, one of the world’s finest string bassists, gives a recital in Hodson Hall, 8:00-9:30 p.m.