RTS & LIVING
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997

Movie Review

Small wonders astound

By ANNE STANCI
Guest Writer

Our hero struggles with the weight of an object twice his size. When it seems as though he succeeds in this arduous task, the massive sphere becomes trapped by an evil protrusion in the earth. Struggling to free his prize, our hero once again tries to push the object over the rocky terrain. Sound like a new Sylvester Stallone flick? Actually, I just described a scene from Microcosmos where a dung beetle tries to push a ball of dirt to his abode.

Microcosmos is a new film about the hidden world of bugs. A movie all about bugs? Sounds like a banal biology video or Sunday night National Geographic special. Actually, the film is the first in a series of art and independent films cosponsored by the Mint Museum of Art, WFAE, and the Carolina Pavilion AMC 22 Theaters. Students get into these shows for only $3!

Microcosmos centers entirely on insects and arachnids. When I first learned about Microcosmos, my stomach turned at the notion. This bug-phobic would rather watch Harrison Ford save the universe. Still, I was intrigued with this movie and decided to see the bugs for myself.

This film took years to create because of the minute photography — photography so precise that the individual feet of a caterpillar can be seen gripping a twig. Insects and arachnids of all sorts are the stars of Microcosmos; the only human interference is brief narration. The red of the ladybugs and green of the grasshoppers have such a mesmerizing power that I forgot I was supposed to be squeamish around creepy-crawly creatures. Surprisingly, like any of its Hollywood counterparts, Microcosmos offers adventure, violence, and even sex for the movie-going crowd. Memorable scenes include the climax of a snail love affair and a fight between two beetles displaying their machismo.

These small but beautiful creatures were generous to let humans catch a glimpse into their exciting world. This film taught me a great lesson (aside from the would-be-cliche “bugs are beautiful”). Our world is filled with miracles that we never noticed: the birth of a honeybee or the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a butterfly are incredible, spiritual occurrences. Microcosmos teaches us to stop and look around at our world. Perhaps now when I see a six-legged creature scurrying across the floor, I will think twice before snuffing out its vastly significant life, greatly disproportionate to its size.

The Mud flies on stage

Actors emerge clean from messy script

By SARAH ZOGBY
Guest Writer

Walking into the Black Box Theater last Thursday evening to watch Mud, I was met by the sounds of a distorted animal kingdom. The play by Maria Irene Fornes was directed by Ann Marie Costa and starred Mike Miga, Kay Walraven, and Jose Ruiz with the set, lighting, and sound designed by Ronnie Higdon.

And what a set it was. The stage slanted at a near 40-degree angle reflecting the unstable world in which the characters in Mud live. Splattered in browns and reds and appearing to be caked in dirt, the set reminded me of a pig pen as recordings of grunting animals played in the background.

The play was divided into short clips that were woven together to tell the tale of a lonely woman trying desperately to dig herself out of a world of animalness in which she found herself. Each short scene ended with a dramatic lighting change freezing the characters in stilled snapshot poses and proving very dramatic and effective.

In an extremely strong performance, Mike Miga played Lloyd, a mentally stunted young man who exhibited infantile and animal-like behavior. Mike seemed to be practically living inside of the body of his character. In fact, Mike’s constant nose picking, nail-biting, and dog-crawling seemed to look second nature (hmm?).

Kay’s Mae provided the pivotal drama of the play; a woman trapped between two men who completely suck the life out of her. Kay wasable to portray Mae’s conflicting dual nature, a woman desperately needing to escape versus a woman intensely fearful of separating from all she has ever known and loved. In Henry, José found a man who became entirely unmasked and revealed to his core. Henry’s pivotal masturbation scene was acted with grace. What could have been portrayed as a vulgar and pornographic scene was, through José’s performance, a scene revealing the depths of loneliness to which Henry had sunk. Despite the strong performance of the actors, I found the script a little weak in places. The hermit crab and starfish analogies were too cliché to be powerful. Even so, I found myself almost moved to tears on a few occasions, a mark to me of a good performance (though, I must admit, I am a crier). All in all, I think the combined efforts of Ann Marie’s directing, Ronnie’s set and lighting, and a great cast of actors made Mud work.

Bill Giduz

Frosted with flare and fired with fury
Mint Museum shows glass and ceramic artwork
By Amy CLEMMONS
Guest Writer

As the popularity of contemporary glass continues to rise, works of artists like Richard Jolley, now exhibiting at the Mint Museum, become increasingly more complex and visually enriched. His show of frosted glass sculptures combines the medium’s infinite range of color in three-dimensional form with enticing tactile surfaces. By etching the glass in hydrochloric acid, Jolley’s milky surfaces sensually entice the eye and beg for further explanation. The sculptures' subjects range from the comical, such as dogs and heads with baseball caps, to issues dealing with race and feminism. One particularly poignant piece, Same Skin, Different Color, involves two heads of transparent glass, one filled with salt and the other with pepper. Here Jolley portrays the theme of transparent skin while also suggesting that the substance of a person lies within. In works like Circling Thoughts, Jolley begins with a head surmounted by a transparent orb with a pair of frosted birds. The engaging use of circular patterns replays itself throughout the show and invokes more psychological and fantastical interpretations.

Jolley, as a master of his medium, is uniquely aware of the alluring properties of glass. He often uses its sensual beauty as a play against the more mundane subject matter. Jolley also understands the possibilities of a medium just beginning to receive proper critical attention, and his sculptures carry forceful messages within their frozen, lavish textures.

The main show playing at the Mint Museum is required for anyone with a slight interest in pottery. “The Ceramic Art of North Carolina” includes over 250 pieces from two centuries of potters working in three main areas of the state. The most prolific area, Seagrove, is located just south of Asheboro, a mere 75 miles from here. Over 100 pottery shops fill this area, providing a unique day trip for anyone willing to talk with the artists and find great treasures for small prices. The show itself incorporates families of potters who have been throwing clay in North Carolina since the early 1700s and moves through the evolution of the tradition. While remaining functional, the pots have changed forms, acquired faces, moved into more decorative uses, and been sought out by many faithful supporters. Subject matter varies as well, and the history of a state tied to red clay emerges as an overall theme. The presentation of the show is quite excellent and the immense amount of material is organized expertly. The Mint is open from 10 a.m. until 10 p.m. on Tuesdays, 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. Wednesdays through Sundays. It’s only $2 to get in and well worth the trip. Guides to the Seagrove area can be found in the library. Go check out the glass and clay!