THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Davidson focusing attention on date rape

By Jessica Goodson
News Editor

The 900 Room was so crowded for Take Back the Night in March that Health Educator Georgia Ringle feared we
were in violation of the fire code. Although she is always pleased to see such a large turnout, Ringle says
it “upsets” her that, despite the fact that numerous women present personal accounts, very few cases of acquaintance — or
date — rape are actually reported to campus police. No incidents of sexual assault were reported during the 1996-97 school
year. She believes that, more often than not, “individuals are told privately of incidents,” and that programs such as Take
Back the Night are more representative than police reports of the estimated one in five students who are victims of
some form of sexual assault. Experts estimate that as many as 90 percent of all rapes are never reported. Of
those reported, approximately 60 percent of the victims know their assailants. Because they compromise one’s ability to make responsible decisions,
alcohol and drugs are often a significant factor in acquaintance rape. Many victims say later that they drank too much
or took too many drugs to realize what was going on; by the time they realized their predicament, it was
too late. Ringle cites heavy drinking as a particular problem that causes confusion over what is consensual.

According to the CORE Alcohol and Drug Survey, 38 percent of Davidson students reported engaging in sexual intercourse within the
past year, 48 percent of which used alcohol or drugs the last time they had intercourse. Ringle says she doesn’t
have total confidence in these figures. She believes that guilt prevents many students from indicating that they are sexually active.
CORE also reports that of 134 women surveyed, 11 percent felt they had been taken advantage of sexually. Of 105
men surveyed, a shocking 27 percent felt that they had been taken advantage of sexually. Fourteen percent of the men
surveyed admitted to taking advantage of a sexual partner, but only 1.5 percent of women reported they had done the
same.

Incidents of sexual assault usually go unreported due to feelings of ambiguity, overwhelming guilt, embarrassment, and shame. There is often
a sense of wanting to get on with life and put the experience in the past. But, as one woman
pointed out at Take Back the Night, this puts one in the awkward position of encountering their assailant in the
future. This is especially true of a small campus like Davidson. In her P.E. 101 presentations, Ringle has made it
clear that sexual assault will not be tolerated at Davidson. “We want to open this issue up to a cadre
of students who can be first responders and rape awareness educators,” she added. “Issues cycle through Davidson about every four
years,” Ringle said. And sexual assault is no exception. In past years, Davidson has worked on a women’s support program
and formed a group of faculty, staff, and students who could be “safe people” for victims to tell anonymously. Although
figures would indicate that there is little need for a rape prevention program at Davidson, Take Back the Night, the
CORE report, and her counseling experience lead Ringle to believe otherwise. In an attempt to make rape response a permanent
fixture and a visible option, Davidson will train resident advisors, who are already in a position of authority, to respond
to rape situations. Katie Koestner’s visit marks the first time training of this kind has been available at Davidson.

President Clinton nominates Davidson graduate as next chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities

By David Kang
Staff Writer

William R. Ferris, Class of ‘64, has been selected to lead the National Endowment for the Humanities into the 21st
century. President Clinton recently nominated the expert on Southern culture and folklore, with prompt confirmation from the Senate expected. Ferris,
a native of Vicksburg, Miss., has always had a fascination with folklore. “From the time I can first remember I
was sitting at my granddad’s knee listening to stories from the Old Testament and about Ali Baba and the 40
thieves,” said Ferris. “I guess growing up on a farm in Mississippi and having a grandfather who is a storyteller
put me in touch with things that were very basic to my world, and I was never really able to
leave after I grew up.” Ferris pursued his love of the humanities at Davidson, where he gained many experiences that
would shape his future work. “One of the things I remembered was a black man who was a janitor in
our dorm, who played guitar,” reflected Ferris. “I used to listen to his finger-picking style and try to emulateit in
my own basic way with a little guitar that I had. I can still play that railroad bill that he
taught me how to play.”

A lifetime goal yields prolific efforts

Ferris had originally hoped to be a writer. He won several writing awards at Davidson while producing poetry, fiction, and
a one-act play. “That was a very important experience at Davidson,” said Ferris, “discovering my voice as a writer and
eventually my work in folklore grew out of it. I think Davidson was an important crucible for change in my
life, and it really opened opportunities for me that were truly important in a fundamental, kind of profound way. I
think the quality of teaching, the calibre of students that I was privileged to know there were the very best
in the nation, and still are,” he added.

Ferris’ writing ability is evidenced in his 13 documentary films and 10 books. U.S. News & World Report recognized the
Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, co-edited by Ferris, as “the first attempt ever to describe every aspect of a region’s life
and thought, the impact of its history and politics, music and literature, manners and myths, even the iced tea that
washed down catfish and cornbread.” The work won the American Library Association’s Dartmouth Medal.

A Love for the South

After earning his B.A. in English Literature, Ferris went on to obtain an M.A. from Northwestern and a Ph.D. in
folklore from the University of Pennsylvania. He taught English at Jackson State University before moving on to teach Afro-American and
American studies at Yale. Ferris found his true calling in 1979, when he founded the Center for the Study of
Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi. During his tenure, the Center has gained national recognition as a preeminent source
of Southern information. It offers both B.A. and M.A. degrees in Southern Studies, and has hosted conferences on everything from
the works of William Faulkner to “In Search of Elvis: Music, Race, Religion, Art, Performance.”

Ferris’ recent nomination to chair the N.E.H. comes as the greatest honor of his life. “It is something I have
never dreamed would happen to me,” said Ferris, “and still believe it is something unreal. It is so different from
anything I have experienced. The N.E.H. provides grants to support research in the humanities, educational opportunities for teachers, and preservation
of texts and materials, among other things. These grants work to support our national heritage and promote lifelong learning.

Ferris certainly has his work cut out for him. Certain Republicans in Congress have been mounting a drive to eliminate
both the N.E.H. and its sister organization, the National Endowment for the Arts. But Ferris has strong support from key
Republicans. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and Senator Thad Cochran, both from Mississippi, wrote Clinton a letter of endorsement upon
hearing of Ferris’ consideration. Ferris, an independent, is “honored to have their support.”

“In many ways this nomination is a recognition of our state and our region, and I feel a strong responsibility
to do the very best I can.”

New Vision

In taking the helm of the N.E.H., Ferris will utilize his years of experience at the Center. His work has
been instrumental in preserving knowledge about the South. The position at the humanities endowment will require this on a larger
scale. Regarding his overall goals, Ferris said, “I would like to strengthen and build on the outstanding programs that are
already there and be as sensitive as possible to the interests of the President, of Congress, and of the American
people, and try to make the endowment, to the fullest extent possible, a reflection of the American experience and all
that it implies for education.”

---

ONEY GLAZED AND SPIRAL SLICED Hams™ & Honeylite™ Smoked Turkey Breasts! Honey Glazed, Spiral Sliced, Mini Hams™ & Honeylite™ Smoked
Turkey Breasts! Choose from a variety of hearty side-dishes, deli salads & freshly baked rolls to make a complete meal.
Easy Carry-Out Meals. Our Ham or Turkey.

LAKE NORMAN - CORNELIUS Southlake Shopping Center 1-77 at Highway 73 (Exit 28) (Near Harris Teeter and Roses) Phone 892-9592
Fax 892-9593

Fresh Deli Sandwiches Made from premium quality meats and cheeses with freshly baked breads, crisp lettuce & tomatoes, and tangy
mustards & sauces. Dine-In or Carry Out.

---

Double Sandwich! Buy 1 Sandwich - Get 1 Sandwich FREE! Expires 10/31/97

---

FREE T-SHIRT + $1000 Credit Card fundraisers for fraternities, sororities & groups. Any campus organization can raise up to $1000
by earning a whopping $5.00/VISA application. Call 1-800-932-0528 ext 65. Qualified callers receive a FREE T-SHIRT.
