MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997

NEWS
In focus ... NEW PROFESSOR

Suzanne Churchill, poetry and the world

By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

“Poetry drew me into this world of language—a world both palpable and perplexing... I chose English not because it was
easy, but because it was endlessly fascinating for me,” she explains.

After graduating from Middlebury, Churchill worked for National Public Radio in Washington, DC for two years. She received her graduate
degree from Princeton and studied for a year at Stanford.

Churchill finds many similarities between Davidson and her alma mater Middlebury—except for the weather.

Churchill decided to come to Davidson because of her love of teaching and her desire to live in an intellectual
community. She also felt that the Davidson community would be a good environment in which to raise her six-month-old twins.
In addition to teaching and learning, Churchill enjoys hiking, swimming, and jogging. An art minor at Middlebury, Churchill hopes to
pursue again her interest in oil painting.

Dr. Suzanne Churchill, among the newest members of the English department, has high hopes for the English 101, British literature,
and Modernist poetry classes she is teaching this semester.

“I hope [my students] will gain a love of literature, portable skills in critical reading, and the ability to articulate
their thoughts clearly in writing,” she says.

Churchill, a native of Durham, Connecticut, attended Middlebury College in Vermont and spent her junior year abroad studying in London.

Churchill's love of poetry inspired her to study English, although she also had interests in art history and mathematics.

Inauguration to cost $300
Jonathan Sipling, Sophomore Class Senator, moved to allocate three hundred dollars to fund the upcoming inauguration. The cost will cover
the public and private expenses for switching to the new executives. Some type of school-wide ceremony should celebrate the event.

Information Technology Committee started
Sophomore Class President Ann Harriot-Fisher moved to adopt a Bylaw change and form the Council on Information and Technology. At
the beginning of the academic year, the SGA listed technology as one of its primary goals. The council hopes to
help maintain an SGA home page on the World Wide Web. It will also look into better wiring of student
housing.

Social Affiliation and Electoral Success
In the last five elections (including the most recent) for SGA president and vice president and Union Board president, nearly
two-thirds of those elected have been independents and nearly two-thirds have been affiliated with a Court house. Only one of
the last five SGA presidents has been an independent, however. (He was also the first and only African-American elected to
the post.) Four of the last five vice presidents have been members of a house. The only exception is outgoing
VP Clair Freeman.

Also, two independents have been at the helm of the Union Board in the last five years including this year's
winner Matthew Hobbie.

Speaker offers reason to believe absolutely

By Lee Kynes
Guest Writer

“Why should anyone believe anything at all?” On Friday, Dr. James Sire challenged students to consider this question in his
lecture in the Morrison Room. About 100 Davidson students postponed their Midwinter’s and Star Wars plans to attend.

Dr. Sire’s lecture, sponsored by Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship (IVCF), was a look at our culture’s notion of belief. He
asked students to name the things that shape what they believe, and he questioned the validity of each of these
things.

He came to the conclusion that the things we believe must have coherence, consistency, and completeness in order to be
valid. On Saturday afternoon, Dr. Sire lectured about “Religious Relativism and Absolute Truth.”

Relativism is the modern idea that there is no absolute truth, and it is therefore plausible to believe almost anything.
Dr. Sire describes it as an “I’m okay, you’re okay, we’re all okay” attitude. He dispelled common relativistic myths and
established reasons that absolute truth could exist, specifically from a Christian perspective.

During the question-answer session which followed each lecture, one student asked about the appropriateness of talking about Christianity if others
don’t see it as absolute truth.

“If [one thinks] Christianity is true, it ought to be proclaimed. It is a life leading the privileged to help
those who are less privileged,” Sire says.

According to Sophomore Brent Gilbert, IVCF executive board member, the organization decided to bring Dr. Sire to campus “in order
to present Christianity as an intellectually viable option in the flood of ideas here at Davidson.”

Dr. Sire is a former English professor, author, and senior editor of Inter Varsity Press.

Evicted

from page 1

The RLO staff was insistent that “it was not the students’ fault. It was more of a town and college
matter.”

Junior resident Sean Keesee says, “I wish the town would have sympathized with us more. It will be difficult to
decide which one of us has to move and then getting settled into a new accommodation.”

The four students have the option of choosing another house near the far end of Baker Sports Complex or moving
onto freshman halls.

It is still yet to be determined who will leave or to where.

Editor’s Note: Because RLO informed the students of the decision of the Town Council at such a late date, many
people were unable to be contacted for this article, most notably RLO Director Kurt Holmes, who was out of town.

A deeper investigation of the story will appear in next week’s Davidsonian.

Attention:

The SGA is seeking a new Chancellor and a new Treasurer.

These are paid positions:

Those interested in serving in either position should call President Buster Burk @6192 or Vice President Ann Harriott Fisher @6170
as soon as possible.

Business Manager Wanted for Davidsonian

If interested, call Caroline Bynum x2148 or x6638

Juniors Allison Coble and Dorothy Peterson head back inside after a false fire alarm Thursday morning in Sentelle Dorm.
