By Mary-Elise BRUMFIELD
Staff Writer

Dr. Tracy K. Koogler, M.D., came to Davidson Tuesday to speak on the issue of non-heartbeating organ donors. Her talk,
entitled “Pediatric Non-Heartbeating Donors: The Potential Benefits of a Protocol,” took place in Chambers Gallery and drew a small crowd
consisting of Davidson students and people from the Davidson community. Koogler was introduced as a 1988 Davidson graduate who went
to the University of Virginia to get her degree before doing her residency and interning at Children’s Hospital in Cincinnati,
Ohio. She now works in Pittsburgh, Pa., at the Children’s Hospital located there.

Koogler started off her talk with a brief history of organ transplants in the United States. She cited the first
kidney transplant as taking place in 1967, when a man named Christian Barnard received a kidney from a South African
woman. She emphasized that the need for organ donors has been — and still is — very great. According to
her statistics, there were 50,000 patients on the national organ donation waiting list in 1996, but only 19,000 of those
received transplants. Overall, only 46 percent of suitable donors actually consent to giving their organs to someone who needs them.
As a result, the number of people who need organs is going up, but the number of available organ donors
is decreasing.

Koogler next spoke about what constitutes brain death. She cited several criteria that have to be met in order for
a doctor to declare brain death in a patient. These include: a comatose state, a lack of breathing, the absence
of brainstem function, normal blood pressure and temperature, and no spontaneous movement. The patient has to consistently meet these requirements
in two formal observations and all informal observations to be pronounced brain-dead.

The next point of Koogler’s talk was about non-heartbeating organ donors themselves. She defined a “non-heartbeating donor” as a patient
who has an irreversible disease or injury that will lead to their death or an unsatisfactory mode of living, and
who does not respond to attempts at resuscitation. However, she emphasized that non-heartbeating patients are still “brain alive.” Koogler cited
certain criteria that a non-heartbeating patient has to meet in order to be an organ donor. First, they cannot show
any signs of having HIV or hepatitis, and they cannot have any systemic infections or extracranial malignancies either. And second,
the patient must die within two hours of his or her removal from all life support systems, or their organs
will go bad and cannot be used.

Children are now being focused upon as another source of non-heartbeating organ donors, she said, because they have the highest
rates of death resulting from primary brain injuries, and therefore already produce high rates of organ donations. Koogler continued with
some ethical issues that are at stake where non-heartbeating organ donation is concerned. Officially declaring a patient’s death by establishing
the lack of a heartbeat in the patient is very controversial because of the question of whether or not the
heart can start beating again on its own. At this point, there is no known data on that issue, which
makes it an iffy topic for doctors.

Another issue that was cited as being one of ethical concern was the Uniform Determination of Death Act, which was
established under President Reagan. This act proved to be controversial because of the differing opinions on the number of minutes
a patient may be declared dead either if they have no functioning respiratory and circulatory systems, or if their brain
does not function, which is another topic of controversy. Other areas of ethical concern that Koogler mentioned were: the Doctrine
of Double Effect (i.e., administering medications to the patient to relieve their pain when they go off life support versus
killing them to get their organs); the place of death (saying goodbye to a dying loved one in the operating
room); and the public’s perception of non-heartbeating organ donations.

She concluded by saying that the issue of non-heartbeating organ donor protocol is very controversial, and it has gotten a
lot of negative press coverage. She cited a recent “60 Minutes” show that presented a very negative, one-sided look at
the issue, which went on the air after a woman in Cleveland threatened a heart institute with a potential lawsuit
for making it their practice to accept non-heartbeating patients as organ donors. However, there are also some very positive things
that can be said for non-heartbeating organ donors. Statistics show that non-heartbeating donors do — at least, where kidneys and
livers are concerned. There are also several other countries besides the United States that implement a policy of using organs
from non-heartbeating donors — Spain, Japan, and the Netherlands, to name a few. Maybe the most important thing of all
is that many of the families who have lost children are willing to donate their children’s organs to people who
desperately need them. If that continues to be the norm, it could potentially increase the number of pediatric donors by
as much as 40 percent, which would in turn greatly increase the total number of annual organ donors.

A brief history of Greek life at Davidson
By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

While students almost unanimously agree that Davidson bolsters one of the most reputable academic environments in the country, much more
dissension exists when the focus is turned to the social environment. Although often facing opposition, students and faculty have made
tremendous strides during the last 150 years in creating a social atmosphere that pairs well with its academic one. The
issue today is the potential addition of sororities to a campus that solidly embraces the current system. On that note,It
may be worthwhile to reflect on the history of fraternities and eating houses at Davidson. Prior to the Civil War,
the social interaction for the relatively “isolated” Davidson men was provided by the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies. However, these
societies stressed academic pursuits and became, in effect, additions to the curriculum. Still, a “social gap existed that longed to
be filled.” The beginnings of a solution came in 1857 with a representative from Beta Theta Pi at Chapel Hill.
During his stay, he appealed to the students and in the following January initiated three Davidson men. Among them were
the two presidents of the literary societies. Longing for an alternative, the students also established a Chi Phi chapter in
1859. While these early “fraternities” grew to approximately 13 students each, they remained a well-kept secret in a time when
Davidson was not receptive to secret organizations, hidden from the “rigid eye” of the faculty, or to their tendency towards
“undesirable conduct.”

The Civil War brought a quick state of prolonged dormancy for the fraternities as many members traded their books for
guns and headed to war. When students returned to campus after the war, the fraternities fought an uphill battle to
regain their footing at Davidson. First faced with a ban on all secret societies, the societies were slow to move.
However, an agreement reached among the College and the lifting of the ban provided relatively fertile ground for fraternities, even
on a campus that prohibited drinking, cards, pool, and dancing. And, by the 1890s and with the addition of Kappa
Sigma, Davidson fraternities seemed to bloom and even “slip from the gaze of authority.”

Fraternities weathered three more wars and a number of minor setbacks. In the sixties, serious questions were raised concerning fraternity
practices such as hazing and the “tragically neglected” non-fraternity men. In response to a huge rush in February 1968, the
faculty and administration charged the fraternities to draw up a plan “which will permit any student to have a social
affiliation with a fraternity if he chooses to do so.” After some revisions and negotiating, “self-selection” was born. To accept
this self-selection plan meant, for some fraternities at least, the withdrawal of their national charters. Phi Gamma Delta, along with
Sigma Phi Epsilon, decided not to conform to the self-selection policy and chose the option to move off campus. While
a few fraternities folded or lost their charters, several remained strong and thrived on campus with the support of a
swelling number of pledges.

Today, seven fraternities are active on the Davidson campus: Kappa Alpha (1880), Kappa Sigma (1890, re-chartered 1988), Phi Delta Theta
(1928), Phi Gamma Delta (1913, chartered in 1923, re-colonized 1989), Pi Kappa Alpha (1893), Sigma Alpha Epsilon (1883), and Sigma
Phi Epsilon (1930). In addition, four other social groups were established to meet the needs of a newly integrated and
coed student body: The Black Student Coalition (1967), Connor Eating House (1991), Rusk (1977), and Warner Hall (1992). The information
for this article was taken from Towner Blackstock’s article in the February 17, 1992, issue of the Davidsonian and Mary
Beaty’s A History of Davidson College. Also, special thanks to the extremely helpful staff in the Library’s Archives.

---

Many students use new pass/fail policy

By Jenny Hapgood
Staff Writer

Choosing a class can be a difficult and daunting task, especially when you aren’t sure you’re up to par. Students
often want to try a challenging class but know they are lacking the skills necessary to do well. So Davidson
provides students with the opportunity to try these more difficult classes by providing the pass/fail plan.

Students choose the pass/fail plan within the first three weeks of a semester, and then they have the first 10
weeks to decide if they will keep the plan. During this 10-week window, students can evaluate their current grade and
decide if they would rather take the grade instead of the pass or fail. Students sometimes choose to take the
grade because one can only receive pass/fail credit with a C-. And in some cases, a student would do better
to take a D than to take the F. This option to choose between keeping the plan or rejecting it
for the grade is new to Davidson this year. Previously, once students chose to go pass/fail in a course that
was it — there was no going back.

Out of the 200-300 students that typically choose a pass/fail option each semester, 45 to 50 students opted this semester
to take the grade instead of taking a course pass/fail. Freshmen and sophomores are allowed one pass/fail credit each year,
while juniors and seniors can receive one pass/fail credit each semester. But the pass/fail plan only applies to core classes,
since no majors allow their classes to be taken pass/fail.

“The benefit of pass/fail far outweighs the drawbacks because it allows students to take a course they feel they might
not have their hand on,” Registrar Polly Griffith said this week. “It takes off the pressure and allows them to
have the academic and psychological freedom to take a course that might be a bit intimidating.”

---

LAYOUT. THE FEW, THE PROUD, THE Davidsonian LAYOUT STAFF. If interested call Randy Skattum (x6667).

---

Christmas Is Coming...

The holidays are approaching and the Village Store in Davidson can get you ready in style! Whether it's whimsical, elegant
or classic we offer a great variety of gifts that will make the season special. Come browse among our great
selection of cards, frames, candles, candleholders, painted boxes and more. We'll be happy to wrap your purchases for free, and
provide shipping service.

Village Store
110 South Main Street
892-4440

---

Multi-disciplinary degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascinating international city. Free details.

SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010
305-284-4173; Fax: 305-284-4406
