THE DAVIDPHONIAN

PLBBBBBBITT!

MONDAY, APRIL 35, 1997

English Department Announces Fall ’97 Colloquium Topic: The Disembowelment of Text

By MOLLY FLANDERS
Body Writer

The theme for next year’s English Colloquium is “The Disembowelment of Text.” This theme was decided upon in an effort
to maintain a sense of continuity with this year’s colloquium, “The Embodiment of Text,” said Professor of English Toné Touchyfeely.

“This year’s theme was so widely received and enjoyed by the seniors that the department decided we had to continue
it. I mean, we really beefed it up,” Touchyfeely stated.

“We traveled so far in embodying the text—I mean we really were at the meat of things—that it seemed appropriate
to follow the trend of lit crit and deconstruct, devour, and regurgitate our bodies. The subtitle for Colloquium will be:
How to Take Your Text and Eat It Too, or Digestion and Denouement, or Virgins and Vivisections. I’m just not
sure.”

“We hope,” Prophet of English gaglibson declared as I passed her flowing down the hall, “We hope that the body—the
guts, the gonads, the goiter—all, through the passionate and provocative exploration of corpuscles and lipids, reveals the hot juicy substance
inside us all that makes us blubber like whales, scream like hyenas, and coo like doves. It will be blood
and gore; sex and violence. The best and worst. What English major wouldn’t love it? I tell you. Truly, what
English major wouldn’t love it? Cry for it! Disembowel me, they’ll say. They’ll beg.” Down the hall she walked on,
glowing, laughing—her enthusiasm bubbling like soda pop.

Junior English majors, when interviewed by Davidphonian staff members, responded positively to the prospects of a gut-wrenching semester: “Yeah, sure.
Cool. Damn. Oh, oh, I can’t wait. Fuck me,” were a few of the responses. One student, who wishes to
remain anonymous, said, “Disembowelment. Neat. I’m thinking of changing my major just to join colloquium.”

Texts for the course include:

Books:
- Body of Evidence
- Merchant of Venison
- Studies in Vagina Dentata
- Open Heart of Darkness
- Rare Skin Diseases, A Novel
- A Farewell to Arms, Legs, and Feet
- Orifice Descending
- Our Bodies, Our Selves
- Edible: Woman

Films:
- Texas Chainsaw Massacre, director’s cut (pun intended)
- The Cook, the Thief, the Wife and her Meatloaf
- Basic Extinct

SEPARATED AT BIRTH...

Bobby Vagt from Delaware and...

Vincini, from The Princess Bride.

Welcome to the *phonian family, Bobby. Now you know.

SEX!

from page 4

drunk.”

The student who received the most charges is senior Mordecai Stolk, who was arrested on a total of 684 counts
of crimes against nature and fornication. Stolk says, “Six hundred eighty-four? What the hell’s that? I mean, are they trying
to insult me or something? I’ve gotten around plenty more than that, I can guarantee you.”

After a moment, he continues, “Well, I guess they weren’t counting any of the prospectives.”

Referring to an inflatable sheep that he shares with his roommates, Stolk says, “Oh yeah, they charged me for that
too. So one of my counts was with the Erotic Love Ewe, for Chrissake. Man, so they’re saying I’ve only
been to bed with six hundred eighty-three girls here. That’s ridiculous. Plus, can you believe a rimjob is a crime
against nature?”

A senior who asked to remain anonymous and only be identified as a fuzzy fruit denies all of the charges
against her. “Please,” she says, “everybody who knows me will tell you that I’m chaste. I’m saving myself for marriage,
and any one of the dozens of guys I’ve rejected can confirm it.” SBI agents could find no men to
corroborate her claims.

School health educator Georgia Ringle says, “The entire affair is a travesty. Here we have young people just trying to
express their sexuality, and the cops have to butt in and hurt plenty of innocent young women and men. It
makes me sick how the Man always tries to push us down. The fight will always continue. Power to the
people.” She says, “Those cops really must need a good lay, just like most of the students I see.”

See Sex is evil page 6 or go into the evil French dungeon on page 7.

DAVIDSON SHEDS TEARS

Senior Sara Beth Hamlin, one of Davidson’s most important campus leaders, waves her fingers good-bye to four years of exemplary
service. Alison Sabel was Sara Beth’s role model, reminding her and others “Don’t quit!” Whether dressed as Willie Nelson or
playing the clown, Sara Beth always has a smile when you’re feeling down.
