DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Men’s tennis starts conference play with win over Chattanooga

After a disappointing loss to start the week, team steals two

By Dalton McLEAN
Staff Writer

With two wins at the end of the week, the men’s tennis team broke out of a slump just in time for conference play. The week started out slowly with a 4-3 loss to Winthrop on Thursday. But with the return of first-seeded Jon Pastel and doubles expert Tyler Epp, Davidson (5-8, 1-0 SC) finished the week with two straight victories, winning 5-2 against Campbell on Friday and pulling out a hard-fought victory against Tennessee-Chattanooga to open conference play on Sunday.

Missing Pastel and Epp, Davidson dropped a close match to Winthrop. In second-seed doubles action, Jeff Tonidandel and Judson Sutherland notched an 8-3 victory. Singles winners were Derek Schulze, who took a three-set marathon at the third seed, Eric Bourn at the fourth, and Judson Sutherland at the sixth.

Against Campbell Friday, Pastel looked unstoppable in a 6-1, 6-2 victory over Laszlo Szocs in his first match back after illness. Other singles winners for the Wildcats were second-seeded Tonidandel, Schulze in the fourth slot, Eric Bourn in the fifth, and Alex Ogulski in the sixth. Davidson won two of three in doubles, with victories from the team of Pastel and Scott Briggs and the tandem Epp and Tonidandel in Epp’s return to the lineup after a sickness.

Sunday’s match against the Mocs marked Davidson’s first league outing. Chattanooga had already won three straight and was looking for a fourth, but inspired play from a surging Davidson team denied it. Davidson started out strong by sweeping two out of three doubles matches. Winners were the second-seeded team of Pastel and Briggs and the third-seeded team of Epp and Tonidandel. Pastel started off Davidson on the right foot in singles with a 6-1, 6-2 victory over Genius Chidzikwe. Third-seed Brett Ialacci out-fought Chattanooga’s Brian Sanders in a three-hour, three-set battle. Schulze also triumphed in a tough three-set match at the four-spot. Davidson’s fourth singles victory came from Ogulski at sixth seed.

“We had a tough match today, and at one point, it looked as if we might lose the match in the singles, but our players began to move their feet and brought in a win,” said coach Jeff Frank of Sunday’s victory.

SUMMER POSITIONS FOR ADMISSION AND FINANCIAL AID OFFICES

Live the good life! Stay in Davidson for the summer!

-- The Admissions Office will hire three full-time (37 1/2 hours) tour guides/data entry workers (tour guiding experience preferable).
-- The Financial Aid Office will hire one full-time data entry/general office/receptionist worker (data entry experience preferable).
-- Employment for these positions is from approximately May 19 - August 15 (with one week off for vacation).
-- The Admission Office will also hire a switchboard operator for one month (July 15 - August 15).
-- Interviews will be conducted in early April.
-- Please send resumes or questions to Judy Jordan, extension 2044, (jujordan@davidson.edu).

Anna Judy

Derek Schulze slams a shot back at his opponent during a recent match.big win at number four singles in Friday’s

Aren't these grey ovals cool?

Looking for something to do on the weekends?

Be A COOL ‘CAT
Write for the Davidsonian
Call Randy, Teresa, or Matt (x2148)

NO GIMMICKS
EXTRA INCOME NOW!
Envelope stuffing--$600-$800 dollars every week
Free details: SASE to
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, NY 11230

Mission statement clarifies future sports staff vision

from page 13

More people come to hoops, soccer, and football games. And like it or not, these are the sports that have the capability to put Davidson’s name in the national spotlight. The men’s soccer team did just that in 1992 by making a miraculous run to the NCAA Final Four hosted right here at Richardson Field. Both basketball teams appear talented enough to earn a spot in the Field of 64 in coming years. And March Madness brings cash and exposure that just can’t be matched in the collegiate sports world.

I’m not saying basketball, soccer, and football are the best sports. Not at all. I’m simply stating facts.

3. Your mere existence as a team does not merit coverage. Some people think a small college newspaper should grant lip service to every team, mention as many names as possible, and candy-coat if necessary. I’m not one of those people. To me, wins do matter. A smaller sport that wins will get more coverage than a smaller sport that loses. There are exceptions, but as a general rule, people want to read about success more than failure.

4. Varsity sports will always take precedence over club sports. Considering we can’t even cover every varsity sport, it is unrealistic for us to think we can devote space to any of the club teams. It’s not that we don’t appreciate the clubs, but it would be an injustice to focus on them before a varsity squad. If a club team does something absolutely noteworthy, then coverage is indeed a possibility. But until then, I’m afraid not. And I will say this: the Daily Tar Heel, which has more space, more writers, and more money, makes it a point not to cover club sports. So rugby, I would rather not join you for hitting practice. And men’s lacrosse, please stop the profanity.

All of this is not to say that I’m not looking for ways to cover anybody and everybody. The worldwide web is one intriguing option. Everything that was left out of the actual four pages of print could conceivably be put into a second sports section on the Davidsonian website. But that’s not the only consideration. More than anything else, we need capable writers. And too many people on this campus are too preoccupied with their schoolwork to devote a considerable chunk of time to the Davidsonian every week.

So there are many factors that go into what we cover and why, and I'm always looking for new and alternative ideas. After all, constant improvement is the only way to get where one wants to go. And feedback is a big part of that - just remember, use your words, not your fists.