THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997 3

IN MEMORIAM
JASON POKAQO KOY
NOVEMBER 17, 1976 - FEBRUARY

Friends remember “an incredible man”

By ANN CULP
News Editor

Jason Koyasu was looking forward to attending Sophia University in Japan. The school does not start until April, so Koyasu
had a short break.

“I told him that he would love Sophia University because if there are 100 students in a class, there will
be 90 girls,” says junior Steve Meriwether. “He was really looking forward to experiencing a different type of college. It
is run by the Japanese government and all of the classes are in Japanese.”

Last spring, Steve Meriwether, Adam Brand, Jason, and I began the a capella group — Caterwauls. It was never very
active, but we spent a lot of time together. At the end of last semester, it really began to take
shape, but then Jason had to leave for study abroad,” says sophomore Kenny Lee.

Sophomore Anna Judy Vang and Koyasu used to joke that when they won the Nobel Prize they would each invite
the other to their homeland. Koyasu would visit Vang in Laos, and Vang would go to Japan.

“I guess now that he is gone, the jokes that we made will never come true,” says Vang.

Assistant Director of Human Resources Carl Sorenson was Jason’s host father. “When we first met Jason, he seemed a bit
overwhelmed and so the first year was a struggle. This year he seemed to be finding more adjusted, more confident.
Yet, I just have this picture of him being happy even if his life was stressful,” he says.

Koyasu loved math and intended to major in mathematics at Davidson, eventually hoping to become a teacher and even principal
at his international high school in Tokyo called St. Mary’s.

“His academic standards were so high,” says Sorenson’s wife Karen, Koyasu’s host mother. “His parents made a lot of sacrifices
for him.”

“We once drove 13 hours to get him to a Japanese restaurant for his birthday, and he loved to share
Japanese culture with them,” says sophomore Kenny Lee. “He loved Japanese pop and to sing. I have to start finding
the CDs that he loaned me in my room. He loved the computer and to travel. He thought he was
missing something, that’s why he loved to travel around. The only difference between him and me is that he studied
so hard.”

Sorenson’s six-year-old son Alec and his friends spent much time with Koyasu. The first time he was at our house,
there was a line of children running around in such a tight circle that they were by Jason.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

travel around the United States and meet a lot of people. He didn’t want to plan his travel out a
lot. If he saw international students on our hall last year, we had similar interests, so we became bonded. “I
guess there are sacrifices to send him here and to give him a private education so he could come here.
I think he really appreciated it,” says Carl Sorenson. All of those close to Koyasu are finding it difficult to
switch from the world they were doing and they were very proud of him. At Davidson, Koyasu was an Assistant
Teacher for Japanese and a member of the a capella group.

“We still have to go on doing the process. One day later we will only think about him once in
a while. When I think about that, I resent the fact that he has to be forgotten that way,” adds
Lee. “I received a postcard from him dated January 31,” says Hsieh. “He was really enjoying traveling. He was happy
that it wasn’t raining. He planned to come back to Davidson around February 25. He said that he really wanted
to sit down and talk while he was here. We used to talk a lot about life.”

“I had really hoped that we would see him graduate,” says Karen Sorenson. “We were very interested in the cross-cultural
experience of having an international student. I thought Jason might be able to help Alec with a little Japanese.” In
the memorial service, Carl Sorenson remembered the small group of people Jason originally knew at Davidson. That group had expanded
to fill an entire chapel. Jason Takao Koyasu left an impression on everyone he met. He was a good student,
excellent son, and incredible friend. He will be deeply missed at Davidson College.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.
