“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly

Now on Tuesdays you learn the news.

Outdoors: The Senior gift will let you learn there.

Wanted: More Books - Smallwood says the library needs to upgrade. - OPINIONS 8

The Fall Play: You should have caught Hay Fever. A&L 10

Soccer: Women advance to semifinals in dramatic fashion. SPORTS 16

Dean Williams gets a congratulatory hug after winning the Thomas Jefferson Award. Students, Patterson Court Organizations, and faculty members received
a variety of awards for their accomplishments during the past year.

Four Watson finalists selected
By Mary-Elyse BRUMFIELD
Staff Writer

After weeks of deliberation, the Committee for the Watson Fellowship has finally announced its four finalists. The nominees for the
award were chosen from several applicants who had to endure stiff competition before they were chosen.

One finalist is Sara Gebhart, a senior Center major from Bethesda, MD. Her proposal, entitled “L’Chaim—To Life,” focuses on Jewish
communities in Latin America. Gebhart plans to travel to Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile to study Jewish communities in their
major cities. By living with Jewish students and their families, Gebhart wants to study how the Jewish communities deal with
living in predominantly Catholic countries where all of the national festivals and rituals are based on a strong Catholic tradition.
She will examine major Catholic celebrations like the week-long Carnival in Brazil, or the Day of the Dead in Mexico
to determine if the Jewish people living in those countries have assimilated themselves with the majority Catholic populations, and if
so, to what extent they still practice and enjoy their own Jewish heritage. Gebhart also plans to speak with Jewish
students and their parents and grandparents, but she will primarily focus on teenagers who have gone through their bar mitzvahs.
She believes that Jewish teens are most affected by living in predominantly Catholic countries and that they have the most
difficult time finding their identities. When asked what influenced her decision to choose this particular topic, Gebhart said that there
were a number of factors. Her trip to Spain last spring taught her about the Spanish Inquisition and furthered her
interest in Jewish Latin American literature (which also happens to be the thesis topic for her Center major). Her own
Jewish heritage also played a part in her decision to focus on Jewish communities in Latin America.

Kenneth Howard, a senior biology major from Charlotte, was also chosen as a Watson finalist. His project, called “Stalking the
Army Ants,” focuses on ant colonies and how they interact with other ant species. Howard says that he plans to
spend four months each in the Philippines, Kenya, and Panama, where he will follow different army ant colonies and observe
how the ants behave toward other ant species. Howard said that nothing in particular made him apply for the Watson
Fellowship, but he stated that he wants a break from...

See Watson on page 3

Duke endowment offers grant money for community efforts
Davidson seeks to obtain $250,000 to increase service opportunities with the town
By Liz NEIHEISEL
Staff Writer

The Duke Endowment announced plans this September for a new grant to benefit children and families in North and South
Carolina through a $3 million fund available in 1998 to traditional beneficiaries of the Endowment. In the foundation’s news release...”Elizabeth
H. Locke, Ph.D., president of the Duke Endowment, said, “From our discussion with other foundations, with numerous agencies working to
improve the lives of children and families, and with government officials, we became convinced that our best chance to make
a difference in the Carolinas was to combine the efforts of our four grantmaking divisions, and to encourage our grantees
themselves to build partnerships that would help them draw on the strengths of their home communities.” Davidson, one of four
educational recipients of the Duke Endowment’s funds, has been invited to develop and request funds for a program to address
the needs of children and families in its area, and in doing so, to form “strong community partnerships” and to
involve a “broad spectrum of organizations.” In his “Request for Proposal” letter, Dean of Students Tom Shandley said that Davidson
has been offered “a very unique and exciting opportunity to assist our children and families — in a collaborative, coordinated
manner.”

The Endowment itself focuses its finances towards four recipient groups: education, health care, child care, and rural church providers. Each
of these groups has been invited to apply for money from the grant and has been encouraged to work together.
“We hope to see cooperative, coordinated efforts to build on those strengths (of the community),” Locke said in her report.
Within Davidson, development relies on the help of students, churches, and community leaders to help develop a program worthy of
grant financing. The formulating committee for this proposal is currently seven strong, including Davidson Community Service Coordinator Bill Abrams, Assistant
Dean for Community Service Ruth Pittard, Associate Anthropology Professor Nancy Fairley, Executive Director of Institutional Advancement Kevin McCarthy, Mr. Bruce
McMillan, Davidson Presbyterian Church Pastor L. Bryant Parker, and Dean of Students Tom Shandley.

“We’re hoping to develop a comprehensive program designed to fill a gap that no current agency is currently affecting,” Abrams
said. “Such an effort will require the investment of several different organizations.” Of the $3 million budget available, Davidson is
hoping to secure up to $250,000. With such a considerable amount of funding available, committee members are searching for a
cause which will have a truly “meaningful impact on children and the parents of children from the pre-school level to
the middle school level.” “This is an opportunity for the college to dream up a program to meet the needs
of our community,” Abrams added. “Some real vision is needed for this project.”

By developing a program within the College and tied through collaborative efforts to the community, students will have a service
opportunity to work in direct contact with the town and its citizens. Any student with ideas or suggestions is encouraged
to contact Abrams or Shandley. The committee plans to meet Nov. 7 to review potential proposals and will meet with
the submitting agencies Nov. 11.

---

“The idea I wanted to do is represent students in a manner that represents most everyone. I regard every student’s
concern as the equivalent to my best friend’s concern.”
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT BUSTER BURK ON HIS PRIMARY PURPOSE IN RUNNING FOR OFFICE

---

ARTS & LIVING ......... 11
SPORTS .................. 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
