THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vamanos!

The Vamanos Van, which makes hourly runs to Cornelius and Huntersville Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, will begin operation this weekend. For more information, contact Chris Tuttle.

Anna Rosa de la Torre, J.J. McCarthy, and John Potter were introduced as three new senators in the last SGA meeting. They will represent Connor, Kappa Sigma, and Phi Gamma Delta, respectively. The candidate filing deadline was set for Sept. 9. Six new freshman senators will be elected Sept. 15, as will sophomore, junior, and senior Honor Council members, and independent senators. Campaigning will occur Sept. 11-15. Candidates will give speeches in front of the Union Sunday.

Compiled by Ann Culp

Got nowhere to go on a Thursday, Friday, or Saturday night?

New chemistry professor brings industry, intellect, and imagination

By Jenny Hapcoop
Staff Writer

David Brown joined the Davidson faculty this year and teaches a section of Introductory Organic Chemistry.

After graduating with a Bachelor’s Degree from Berry College in Georgia, Brown went on to receive his Ph.D. in Synthetic Organic Chemistry from Emory University in Atlanta in 1986. Following graduate school, Brown began working for Hoechst Celanese Corporation in Rhode Island. The Hoechst parent company, based in Frankfurt, Germany, is the world’s largest chemical company.

There, Brown received an education in the chemical industry and spent 11 years working as a research chemist and supervising and aiding interns. In 1989, Brown transferred to Charlotte and continued his success with Hoechst Celanese. But Brown realized his job wasn’t as perfect as he once believed it to be.

“The further I climbed up (the corporate ladder), the further I got from the students and interns,” he said. “I love to help them bring their projects together, and after 11 years in the industry, I'd had enough.”

With that realization, Brown left his job at Hoechst Celanese and joined the array of professors at Davidson.

“Davidson has an outstanding student body,” Brown answered when asked what attracted him to Davidson. “You don’t find students of this caliber at practically any other school. I like smart people, and it is an honor to work with the students and with (fellow) professors.”

Brown brings many strengths to Davidson, especially his considerable business contacts. He will attempt to “exercise and maximize” these contacts as he highlights the industrial application of chemistry to his students. For example, Brown and his students were set to go to Mount Holly today.

“I want to show them how organic chemistry is done,” he explained. “I want to use my industrial background to bring the real world of chemistry to the classroom.”

In his first week of teaching, Brown feels the most difficult aspect of his work is adjusting to the freedom and the responsibilities of his new job.

“There’s a special challenge that comes with teaching these extremely talented people,” he said. “They are geographically diverse, exceptionally bright, and they keep me on my toes. I want to challenge them and expose them to things they haven’t seen.”Before. After a year, Brown will know if he will continue his teaching at Davidson. For Brown, the reward lies in, as he put it, “seeing students succeed in what they want to do and knowing that I had a role in it is especially meaningful to me. I want to help students realize their dreams.”

Are you a freshman without a car? RIDE THE VAMANOS VAN! In front of Richardson Dorm, 7 p.m. to 3 a.m., every hour on the hour.

“Make Buster’s dreams come true!”

Griffith gets a By Jessica Goodson News Editor

In response to complaints from neighbors and in a general effort to improve the primary entryway to Davidson, the town board has committed to a two-phase project to revamp eight acres of the Griffith Street area, including the pond and nearby park. Town planner Tim Keane hopes that the renovations will make this area more attractive to students, residents, and visitors.

The town was given $77,000 from the North Carolina Parks and Recreation Trust Fund for renovation of the park on the condition that the town match the grant. In addition, Bruce Parker donated $50,000 for the installation of a boardwalk alongside the pond in phase one. The boardwalk will connect the sidewalks on Griffith Street, bypassing the bridge that crosses lanes of traffic.

Currently, silt is being removed from the pond to uncover its natural bottom. Shallow waters caused problems in the past with an overgrowth of primrose, a nuisance to locals who live near the pond. Spillways will be added under Griffith Street to promote drainage into pipes which have already been laid. Sediment dams are also under construction to prevent future build-up of silt. Project planner Leamon Brice estimates that phase one will be completed by the end of October, when the 100-day contract is up. Phase two will begin shortly after, with projects to clear jogging trails in and around the park. A large playground as well as additional landscaping is also on the agenda.

Sean Lutmer

Post office expands facilities By Jerry Goldman Staff Writer

The Davidson Post Office began renovations this summer. The facility is being expanded to better handle the increased load created by recent expansion in the town and surrounding areas, according to assistant postmaster Ted Klopfer. The lobby has been expanded to roughly twice its original size and desks will be added as well. The P.O. box room has been remodeled and now holds approximately 500 more boxes. New parcel lockers have also been added, increasing the post office’s capability to handle care packages and other large items. In addition, work crews installed a new stamp machine, allowing the purchase of stamps 24 hours a day.

Most of the major renovations are now complete. The primary changes currently taking place are sanding, repainting, and putting in a new floor. They are expected to be completed by the end of October.

Will Bradshaw

The pond on Griffith Street, between Interstate-77 and Main Street, is currently being modified to help with the removal of built-up silt and algae.