THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997

Asch argues against the commercialization of human reproduction

Anna Judy Store Manager Karen Toney wonders why more students don’t visit Ben & Jerry’s.

By Mary Claire Jalonick Editor Emerita

Should a prospective student pick up a copy of Princeton Review’s Top 25 Colleges, he or she might find that
one of the things in the “what’s hot” column for Davidson College is “town-gown relations.” Would students and town members
agree? This question is multifaceted, and recently it has intensified. Several areas of the issue can be explored, and should
be. Thus, we begin a series of articles that will examine singular aspects of our town-gown relations.

Phyllis Schultz, the owner of Ben & Jerry’s on Main Street, doesn’t understand why she sees so few Davidson students.
“The whole idea is to break down barriers,” she says. She tries every day. A suggestion box sits on the
counter with a promised reward to the best student suggestion. A sign reading “Welcome, students!” is posted on the door.
She even began to accept Visa when it didn’t look like the Cat Card would work out. Still, the students
don’t seem to come. She worries that their prices are too high. She worries that their hours are inconvenient. She
worries that students don’t want to sit in a restaurant with a family, or an older couple. She says that
her brother once met a Davidson student skiing and the student told him that he didn’t visit his sister’s Ben
& Jerry’s because there were “too many locals” in the store. “People don’t always want to see mom, dad, and
the kids,” she says.

Is this really a problem for most students? It seems silly, but Schultz sees it as a possible answer to
a confusing question. So she constantly brainstorms about just what it is that students want. Later hours? Open mic nights?
Coupons? She is open to suggestions, and actively seeks them. “We want to give the students something to grab on
to,” she says. “It is interesting to try and see what goes on in a student’s head. It leaves us
to wonder what their motives are.”

Down in the Town

One Main Street merchant looks across the street. Are students too lazy to walk to the store when pints are
available in the College Union? “This is a very tiny market,” she says. “There aren’t enough people to split it.”
“You would think there would be more of a cooperative spirit,” she says. “How would the college feel if this
went back to being an antique store?” The store does good business in the town, but Schultz, along with Davidson
store manager Karen Toney, makes the point that no business can survive in this area by taking only one market
into account. “We need all segments of this community,” she says. “It’s hard to do business here. There aren’t many
students here and they leave in the summer.” “You may get a following,” adds Toney, “but then they graduate.” In
order to keep good relations with the college itself, she has sponsored “ice cream days” for certain activities, such as
Project Life. On that day, everyone who bought something at Ben & Jerry’s donated a portion of the sale to
Project Life. “It was a good start,” says Schultz.“but a lot more could be done along those lines.”

PASTA COMPANY

Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages available. Featuring the best import and domestic beers and a full line of wines including Chardonnay,
Cabernet, and Merlot.

* We deliver full meals including all alcoholic beverages.
* FREE delivery. Limited delivery area. $10 Minimum Delivery.
* Major Credit Cards Accepted.

HOURS:
11:30-9 Mon. - Thur.
11:30-10 Fri. - Sat.
Closed Sunday

I-77, Exit 28, Norman Crossing Shopping Center

10% off any pasta combo with student I.D.

CARRY OUT DELIVERY DINE-IN
896-8333 thru 3/31/97

NARESH NAGELLA
News Editor

There is a certain type of classified ad that Dr. Adrienne Asch does not like. It goes, “Male 20-27, 5’10’’,
no familial history of genetic diseases, college educated, wanted by infertile couple that desires a family.” Such is the style
of advertisement that is common in the growing “reproductive industry.” It includes sperm donors, egg donors, surrogate mothers, and forms
of in vitro fertilization.

Meagan Mitchell
Adrienne Asch speaking on “The Business of Babymaking.”

The technological and popular growth of the industry has led to partially or completely infertile couples paying for someone’s egg
or sperm. Asch, a Philosophy professor at Wellesley College, talked about this “Business of Babymaking” in a talk sponsored by
the Medical Humanities department last Thursday. Her talk did not focus on the actual industry itself but instead concerned the
ethical value of paying for eggs or sperm. Asch says, “The process should not be commercialized. [The donors] are not
told of the value of the sperm or eggs. [They sell them] not knowing they make children [they] love. The
people who sell them do not make informed consent. The act cannot be informed because they do not know the
child.”

Asch said that women, who must take drugs to donate their eggs, will not know what type of psychological loss
they might experience. She says the young girls who often donate their eggs trick themselves into doing so by saying,
“I have many [eggs]. So, I take a few drugs and the nice couple wants to have a family. What
can I lose?” Asch is against the financial incentive to helping probable donors make up their minds. Furthermore, she does
not like the idealized values that such advertisements enforce and try to attract. She also says it takes an emphasis
away from adoption as a choice for such couples.

Many audience members questioned why she would be against what they thought would mainly help a couple have a child
they would love. But, Asch says, “People should not be rewarded for creating a new human being.” Asch offers an
analogy to show the double standard that applies if society condones payments for eggs or sperm. She says, “There is
a whole social problem with teen pregnancy. If a black girl from the ghetto has a child, she is [thought]
irresponsible with her eggs. But, if a [less disadvantaged] girl hands it out, then she gets paid.”

Warren Buford congratulated Buster Burke immediately before he made these remarks to the SGA: I am here to stand as
someone who will drive us along, hopefully with a smile, and to listen to each and every concern — from
water fountains where the water just isn’t cold enough to financial aid.
