THE DAVIDSONIAN

If all goes according to plan, this space near the down-the-hill sophomore residence halls will soon be occupied by Turner’s
new house.

Turner begins to take shape
By LAURA CRAVER
Staff Writer

Last Monday, Patterson Court’s newest addition, Turner House, began serving meals to its growing number of members. The women of
Turner have been given permission by the Union to use the Outpost for meals while they wait for a new
facility that should be completed by October. Drawing members from all three of the other eating houses, Turner has grown
to approximately 90 members and has subsequently brought the membership levels among the four eating houses to between 75-125 women.

Talk of a new eating house began to surface last spring when the number of women on Patterson Court reached
record levels. “It was fairly clear,” said President Vagt, “that the houses were getting too small to rationally accommodate the
size of some of the groups.” In one instance, this number was nearly 250 members. According to Patterson Court Advisor
Jim Barber, the women also “felt that the large numbers may be an impediment to the closeness that eating houses
have enjoyed.” When the students took their concerns to the administration, discussions led to an agreement that a new house
would be beneficial to the life on Patterson Court.

The first plans for the house involved the renovation of Pax. However, Pax was needed for student housing with the
enrollment of another record-breaking freshman class. Instead, plans were drawn and the Pax renovation money was allotted for the construction
of a new eating house. With an estimated cost of $307,000, construction began on Turner in mid-July. Although hampered by
two weeks of rain, the construction should be complete in October. “The foundation has been laid,” said Jim Barber, “and
I believe students will begin to see real progress soon.”

The new house will be in front of the baseball fields. It will be the same size as the other
houses, roughly 3200 square feet, but it will not have a basement or an apartment. In exchange, Turner will benefit
from a commercial-sized kitchen that is suited for serving large numbers. In the meantime, Turner and Residence Life are “extremely
grateful” to the Union for the use of the Outpost, and things are “running very smoothly.” Turner is sharing a
cook, Hollis Moore, with Kappa Sigma and shuttling lunch and dinner between the two houses until the new house is
complete.

Turner House is named after Davidson ’93 graduate Katherine Turner, “because we feel that she has made so many contributions
to Davidson and to the community,” said President Mary Shell Brosche. Turner is currently very involved with the Ada Jenkins
Center. “Katherine’s ideals,” said Brosche, “are some that we as a house want to exemplify.” Brosche believes that “Turner will
be an effective presence on the court, having already made our presence known to upperclassmen just by being new.” The
biggest challenge facing Turner is “to let the freshwomen see us as an eating house without actually having a house,”
said Brosche.

Turner House is planning service projects and will be co-sponsoring parties with Kappa Sigma and Pi Kappa Alpha. Turner is
also arranging to have a “block party” outside. “We are planning on co-hosting parties with the other eating houses also,
along with other small functions,” said Brosche. Despite the lack of its own house for the first month, the women
of Turner are “totally excited” and enthusiastic. “I have been very impressed with their enthusiasm and flexibility,” said Jim Barber.
“They have been a wonderful group to work with and things have been better than I could ever have hoped.”
President Vagt also commended the organization, having “been impressed with the effort they have expended in making it come to
fruition.”

New Union survey results back
Survey Results from page I

cent) and sophomore (41.7 percent) classes. In addition, more women than men completed the survey, by a ratio of 60
percent to 40 percent. The survey found that there is strong support within the student body for the building of
the new Union. When asked to prioritize the school’s spending on several key programs or projects, the new Union finished
a close second behind lifting the cap on financial aid. Increasing faculty salary, building new music facilities, and increasing athletic
spending finished third, fourth, and fifth, respectively.

The survey also attempted to gauge student preferences on what should be included in a new Union. When asked to
explain what they viewed the primary role of a union to be, an overwhelming majority responded that it should, first
and foremost, be a place to hang out. Finishing second and third, respectively, was the view of a union as
a special events and meeting area. In comparison, only a few students viewed aUnion as primarily an eating or study
place, as these two finished fourth and fifth, respectively. Students also had a clear preference as to what, specifically, should
be included in the new Union. When asked to prioritize 10 items that could be included in a new union
by importance, the Cafe was the number one choice by a wide margin. A multi-use room and 24-hour access space
finished second and third, respectively. The three least popular suggestions were a study space, a post office, and an exercise
area, respectively.

One of the more controversial issues that the survey addressed was whether the new Union should include a post office
for the students, as opposed to keeping the students’ post office boxes in the town’s post office. While opinions were
split, a clear plurality of the surveys were in favor of keeping the post office on Main Street (46.2 percent),
with only 32.1 percent preferring to move it to the Union. Seventeen and six-tenths percent responded that it did not
matter, and 4.1 percent were undecided. The students were, however, in favor of keeping the school bookstore in the Union
(74.4 percent), as opposed to moving it onto Main Street (14.4 percent).

In response to whether the new Union should include exercise equipment, 50.2 percent replied that they did not want (32.7
percent) or strongly did not want (18.7 percent) exercise equipment in the new Union, as compared to 36.5 percent who
either wanted or strongly wanted exercise equipment in the new Union. Thus, the average Davidson student thinks of a union
spot as a hangout spot first and foremost and wants cafes, 24-hour rooms, and bookstores in their union, and do
not want post offices, exercise areas, or study areas.

The survey results were presented to the New Union Planning Committee over the summer and will be presented to the
SGA this week. If anyone would like to see a more complicated set of results, the results will be on
display on the SGA board in Chambers.

For Bonner scholars, service is key to self-discovery
By SUSAN VEAR
Staff Writer

In the life of a typical Davidson student, community service usually plays at least a minor role. But for 80
students on campus, community service not only plays a major role in their lives, but is the central focus of
it. They are the Bonner scholars, and for them, community service is more than just a part of life, “it’s
a way of living,” according to Ruth Pittard, Assistant Dean of Service.

The Bonner scholarship is given to 20 students in each class, for a total of 80 in the school. The
scholarship replaces the work-study component of financial aid with community service. But unlike the work-study program, the Bonner scholars “get
a very deliberate program with mentors and staff people. They have opportunities for international travel and camaraderie with students in
the same or similar programs,” said Pittard.

Bonner scholars are required to do 10 hours of community service each week and 240 hours each summer. However, said
Pittard, “the larger thing that’s required is a commitment to serve and a willingness to look at personal and life
issues — a dedication to finding out the root causes of why there are problems in society.”

One student displaying this dedication is Bonner scholar Adam Soto, who applied for the scholarship because “I personally felt very
blessed and that I had a lot to give. Service to me is the most important worldly activity.” But, as
Andrew Letizia has discovered, service holds its own rewards for those who are willing to give. “Through working with others
and through doing service, I’ve found who I am as a person — what my goals and values are,” said
Letizia.

Bonner scholars often work on projects not just as individuals, but as a team. “(Working as a team) accomplishes two
goals: it brings us together as Bonner scholars, and we can efficiently finish a service project,” said Soto.

Another function service plays in the lives of those involved in the program is that “it keeps us focused on
what’s real in the world. In an educational institution, it’s easy to adopt an ‘ivory tower’ attitude. It keeps me
humble,” said Pittard. Letizia agreed, “The common phrase is that you're living inside a bubble at Davidson. This forces you
to step outside of that bubble, out of your comfort zone, and discover the real world.”

Attention Storage Users:
In the chaos of storage removal, it is possible that several items were accidentally picked up by the wrong people,
as many of the stored items were very similar in appearance. If in unpacking you have found another’s item, please
call Kristie at x6152. Also, storage will be open the following hours for final storage pick-up:
Tuesday, September 1: 1-3pm
Thursday, September 3: 1-3pm
