By Alison Kalett, Sports Editor

The Wildcats’ 1-0 victory over Southern Conference rival Furman University was Davidson’s biggest win of the season thus far. The
‘Cats stunned the 12th-ranked Paladins on their home field on October 7th. The match was definitely an example of a
game in which statistics did not tell the entire story. Furman outshot Davidson 22 to 10 and had 5 more
corner kicks; however, Davidson, unlike Furman, was able to put the ball in the net. With just over 14 minutes
remaining in the contest, junior Andrew Holbrook scored on an assist from freshman Paul Watson. The goal was Holbrook’s fifth
of the season.

The Davidsonian

Men’s soccer victorious in three of four games

The Wildcat defense was able to contain their opponents for the remainder of the game, and senior goalkeeper Brad Stroble
had 9 saves. Still soaring from the Furman victory, the Wildcats traveled to Duke University for a game against one
of the best programs in the country. The Blue Devils (11-1) quickly brought the Wildcats back down to earth. Although
Davidson was able to contain Duke’s powerful offense for the majority of the first half, they were unable to score.
Eventually, Duke took advantage of their superior speed and experience and scored their first goal approximately 30 minutes into the
first half. In the second half, Davidson again fought hard, but the Blue Devils netted another score with 14 minutes
remaining. Ultimately, Duke’s nine shots on goal compared to Davidson’s one proved the difference in the game.

Against Southern Conference foe VMI (1-11, 0-5) on October 13th, the Wildcats looked like a team with something to prove,
and they didn’t waste any time doing just that. Just 48 seconds into the game, senior Fred Ryser scored his
first goal of the season and the first of his Wildcat career. After that, the game was never in doubt.
The Wildcats dominated, outshooting their opponents 21 to 1. Also scoring for Davidson were sophomores Ikenna Myers and David Buehler
(Buehler leads the ‘Cats with 5 goals and 32 shots this season). Junior Andrew Holbrook scored Davidson’s fourth goal of
the game unassisted.

Most recently, on October 16th, Davidson conquered yet another Southern Conference foe when they narrowly defeated Wofford (1-13-1, 0-4) 2
to 1. The game was extremely close and hard-fought. Davidson led.

Volleyball team wins fifth and sixth straight game

By Peter Gross, Staff Writer

Last week, the Davidson women’s volleyball team won their fifth and sixth contests in a row by defeating The Citadel
and Charleston Southern. Neither foe presented a challenge for the ‘Cats, who increased their record to 14-6 with the victories.
Davidson disposed of The Citadel in only 55 minutes, surrendering a meager 8 points combined in 3 games. Charleston Southern
did not provide much more opposition, though they did manage to win a game (16-14) before the ‘Cats claimed victory
in the match. With their 14th victory, the volleyball team needs only two more wins to ensure a winning season.
They should meet that goal this week when they travel to UNC Greensboro and East Tennessee State. The ‘Cats will
then return home for a match against Appalachian State on October 25, in which they hope to avenge one of
their two conference losses.

Letter to the Editor — Davidson needs a Pep Band

Last year was the first year in a long while that the Davidson Wildcats had the sounds of live brassy
music backing them up against visiting teams. This year, the Wildcat Pep Band will return with an even louder, brassier
sound to pump up the crowd and make the courts of Baker ring! Being in the stands during a home
game is always a thrilling experience but does not compare to blaring out the Davidson fight song after a score
has been made. I had the chance to play the sousaphone in the inaugural pep band last fall and enjoyed
every minute of it. There were many perks in addition to the whole band being treated to free Cokes.For the
majority of the match due to a goal by Andrew Holbrook at the 20:18 mark of the first half. Holbrook
scored the goal after Davidson keeper, senior Brad, retrieved it and powered it past the Wofford keeper. Neither team was
able to score for the remainder of the first period, but halfway through the second period Wofford’s Nate King tied
the game with a shot from inside the box. Just when it appeared as if Davidson might have to settle
for a disappointing tie, Holbrook came to the rescue. With less than four minutes remaining, Holbrook scored his second goal
of the game, and fifth of the season, off an assist from fellow senior Fred Ryser. Davidson emerged with an
exciting 2 to 1 victory. The Wildcats currently stand at 4 and 13 overall and 3 and 3 in the
Conference. Their next game is a key Southern Conference match-up at Appalachian St. this Wednesday at 7:30.

By Smyth Bitter
Guest Writer

With the Southern Conference meet only two weeks away, the women’s cross country team knew the North Carolina State meet
this weekend would not only prove vital in their preparation for this important day, but would also be a big
indication as to where they stood going into the conference meet. With this knowledge as their motivation, the women walked
away with a strong score and have high expectations for the upcoming meet at Davidson. A total of sixteen teams
entered the race, including Southern Conference powerhouse Appalachian State, who dominated the meet. The Wildcats finished with a respectable seventh
place and a team score of 170 points, leaving nine teams in their dust. Davidson’s top five runners all finished
in the top 50 and all were within 25 seconds of one another. Coach Thomas Cason comments on this achievement,
“Our goal this week was to run more team-oriented by packing in our runners close to each other,” he said.
“This is how we’re going to beat a lot of teams whose runners are more spread out as they cross
the finish line.”

Leading the top five were sophomore Smyth Bitter and senior Suzy Burr, who claimed the 21st and 29th overall places
respectively. Side by side, Clare Frey and Caroline Little worked together to grab the third and fourth team spots. Frey,
who improved her time by seven seconds, ran the PR (personal record) of her cross-country career. Freshman Lucy Billingsley, the
team’s fifth finisher, showed a nice improvement by running her exact time from the previous Lehigh meet on this week’s
more difficult course. Sorely missed this weekend was sophomore Jill Neumayer, who normally contributes to the top five but was
unable to compete due to illness. Rounding out the top seven were seniors Kelly Keifer and Beth Brewster. Brewster walked
away with her best time for the season by eighteen seconds. Following close behind was senior Jenny Klotz, who claimed
eighth place for the team. Rhiannon Ollis and Julia Kudravetz both ran strong races, showing the essential contribution of this
year’s freshmen. The Lady Wildcats' next five runners, Katie Lannon, Ellen Runnels, Becca Wilson, Tab Combs, and Kathleen Shields, all
improved their race times significantly from last weekend’s meet at Furman. Both Lannon and Shields, who have suffered disappointing injuries
this season, left their frustrations behind by bettering their times by over a minute.

For the next two weeks, the women’s team will have their sights set on the Southern Conference Invitational. The conference
meet is being held at Davidson on the morning of October 31st.

Tying to keep the Stock Homecoming? Start off the evening right - treat your date to a dinner at Jasper's.
Make your reservations early, and be sure to mention that it’s Homecoming! Remember, all Davidson students receive 10% off their
bill.

27 Depot St, Davidson
896-1881
