Idling in a carrel in the library, rushing to Dana for my weekly lab session, and even spending a social
night down on the court: with all these distractions, I rarely take time to just think. However, reading Annie Dillard’s
writing in what little spare time I’ve allotted has allowed me to reflect on the innocence of youth — reminding
me of the simple pleasures in life while developing an excitement for the future. One of her books, in particular,
has become a source of strength and inspiration. Although much of Dillard’s work describes her struggles, dreams, and observations, the
profound implications underneath the simplicity of this author’s writing have guided me further down the path of discovering who I
am and who I want to be.

The concept of money is difficult for children to understand, since their fathers are their “only imaginable source of income”
(Dillard). Finding a half-buried dime in an alley (as did Dillard in her book “An American Childhood”) leaves a child
believing that great treasures await them in the world. I don’t recall the first coin I ever found, but I
do remember the burning desire for more that ultimately resulted. From that moment on, I had a mission. My young,
eager eyes were always on the lookout for any sign that might reveal hidden riches. I searched in “forsaken place(s)
far removed from the ordinary comings and goings of people who earned salaries in the light” (Dillard).

It was behind grocery store aisles where dust rested like a thick rug, or underneath green lopsided park benches that
I made the most valuable discoveries. Occasionally, I happened upon a weathered penny or dime dropped on the sidewalk by
some unlucky person — probably a grown-up. I would pounce on the filthy coin and sing, “We’re in the money;
we’re in the money.” Then, with the coin secured between my hot, sweaty sock and Velcro shoe, I would run
home to show Mom. The “big money,” however, lay in public telephone coin returns. When I spotted a gas station
pay phone or a series of empty booths at the mall, I would stick two grubby fingers behind the sliding
metal door on each one. These probings were often fruitless, but when I did retrieve a cold, smooth coin, it
was substantial — usually a quarter, plus maybe a nickel and dime. After such findings, I beamed triumphantly.

No doubt I delighted in collecting pennies, nickels, and dimes, but I fantasized unearthing a chest glutted with sparkling gems
and fat gold chunks. When I was seven and she was eight, my tree-climbing, dog-teasing, macaroni-and-cheese-scarfing best friend Kami and
I were engaged in “detective work” in a cluster of fragrant lilac bushes. During this secret investigation, we stumbled upon
a rusted metal stake protruding from the hard, dry soil. It was brilliantly concealed by the lilac’s green foliage —
the work of a desperate pirate forced to abandon his treasure, we concluded. Maybe this patched-eye villain had never returned
to collect his loot. We wasted no time. “Kami, go get your grandpa’s shovel,” I ordered. “I'll run home and
grab a hoe.” As I bounded away in the opposite direction, I heard Kami yell fervently, “Don’t tell anyone. This
is top secret.”

I don’t know how many hours we shoveled that day. Our efforts produced nothing but cracked, blistered hands and dirt-packed
fingernails, but we didn’t lose hope. For months after that, we confidently dug deep craters in the firm ground, searching.
It wasn’t until years later that Kami’s grandma explained that the rod was a boundary marker separating her yard from
the neighbor’s. But it didn’t matter. Looking back, my fixation wasn’t about amassing great fortunes; “that I never found another
old coin...didn’t matter at all” (Dillard). What kept me shoveling after unearthing the first filthy penny was that heart-pounding, hair-on-the-back-of-your-neck-raising
anticipation. That’s what I craved — anticipation and adventure. I was young, curious, and immersed in the exciting mystery of
money and all “adult things.” Even at age seven, I knew that great treasures awaited me in the world. All
I had to do was dig.

Home Is Not Quite So Sweet Anymore

Ah, home sweet home. It’s not quite like I remembered it. Driven by necessity (i.e., the imminent demise of my
car), I returned home to Georgia for a weekend, only to be reminded of the many reasons to stay here
at Davidson. For those of you who live too far away to even think about going home for the weekend,
your situation may be better than you think.

Myth #1: Mom and Dad suffer from the “Empty Nest Syndrome.” Returning home from Davidson, are you shocked to find
that your parents actually have lives without you? Though it may be crushing at first to find that they have
not spent every passing moment pining for your return, this reaction should be expected. In fact, they may secretly (or
not so secretly) have been waiting for your departure for years. When I arrived home for the first time during
my freshman year, I was a bit surprised to find my room filled with exercise equipment. “As soon as you
move your furniture out,” my mother informed me, “this will be our new exercise and multi-media room.” I glanced out
the window, half expecting the presence of a U-haul truck in the driveway. “Oh,” Mom added a bit too eagerly,
“take all of the cats with you, too.”

Myth #2: You will be greeted with home-cooked meals. If your parents are anything like mine, much of your time
at home is spent scavenging for anything remotely edible. Do not mistake me for a picky eater; I’m not. Case
in point: winter break. I entered my empty house following a long week of exams and a somewhat shorter drive
to Georgia. Energized by my temporary reprieve from exams, I decided to cook dinner for my hard-workingParents. The only things
I found in the fridge, however, were a half-eaten turkey (likely left over from Thanksgiving) and some assorted sauces of
unknown origin. Only a bit daunted, I checked the cabinets. A lonely can of tomato soup stared back at me.
This was not an isolated incident. My mother and father loathe grocery shopping with a curious passion and literally spend
weeks seeing who can last the longest without buying food. I firmly believe that my mother would rather be charged
by a wild hippo than set foot in Harris Teeter. When Mom and Dad are truly successful, they can make
do for six or seven weeks until my next visit.

Myth #3: Your parents will respect your newfound freedom. This is the biggie. Although it is perfectly obvious that you
are capable of caring for yourself, your belongings, and your work on a day-to-day basis for the vast majority of
the year, as soon as you set foot in the same house with your parents, the infamous “under my roof”
rule comes back into play. The key word here is nag. “Aren’t exams coming up?” they may ask you as
you walk out the door with friends or recline on the sofa glued to “South Park.” “Don’t you have some
reading to do? I just don’t remember having this much free time in college.” Arguing with parents over time management
is futile. Establishing the illusion of studying is the primary solution. I do take my books home, and sometimes, as
a compromise, they watch TV with me.

So went my brief (thankfully) 36 hours of home life. Sunday morning I slid out of bed, stumbled over the
rowing machine and some free weights on the way to my closet, scavenged for food, went to the grocery store,
and jump-started my car (for the sixth time in two days) to transport it to the dealership. Finally, only three
hours after my designated departure time, I pulled out of the driveway in my mother’s car, my head dancing with
alternatives to a spring break at home.

In pursuit of the perfect roommate

Breaking it down

“So, who’s going to be your roommate next year?” The procedure is so simple for entering freshmen. You fill out
the preference forms, take the Myers-Briggs, and in Davidson-time you eventually receive a partial name and an address. Then, like
the impatient, technology-minded students we are, we get on the Internet and search. With crossed fingers, we look for the
full name and number of the person we will spend the next year sleeping across from in a closet-sized room.
But this is not a bad thing. Finding out who your roommate is puts the first brick in what soon
will turn out to be Belk, or Rich, or Little, or Cannon, or Watts — your freshman hall, my freshman
hall. The first awkward — or not so awkward — conversation is your first memory, beyond that of a paper
trail extending down I-77 as far as the eye can see. The two of you agree, very seriously with untouched
freshman gravity, on who is to bring what to the room you both have yet to see.

This time around the stakes are different. A fluorescent-yellow packet instructs us in detail — the second-semester freshmen, sophomores, and
juniors — on what we can and cannot do, what will help us get the room or apartment we want.
The process is less personal, less exciting, and more unknown than anything we might have been afraid of before freshman
year. The room “lottery” provides only part of the unknown. The next question, besides that concerning the little number next
to your name, is, of course, “Who is my roommate going to be next year?” Let the bartering and the
logistical nightmares begin. “Well, if Sally rooms with Kim, then Jenny has to room with Samantha, and Jill still doesn’t
have anyone to live with.” (If you are a guy, substitute male names.) In vain attempts at satisfying everyone on
a freshman hall, not all goes according to plan. Some people get included, while others are excluded simply by chance.
Just like room assignments, roommate “selection” isn’t always fair to those who do not get an early start. In addition,
there is no fluorescent-covered packet filled with dates each student must adhere to. There is no code of ethics. That’s
just the way it is — and another thing I wish I had known ahead of time. But yes, fortunately
I do have a roommate for next year. Now we just need a room.

I like to dance. It is one of my favorite things to do. Not only do I like to dance
in my room by myself to artists such as Def Leppard and Bon Jovi, but I also like to shake
my groove with my friends on occasion. The only time that I am able to exercise this endeavor at Davidson
College is at parties that are sponsored by the various fraternities and eating houses on campus. These parties — which
are interpreted by some as being drunken messes — are actually valuable hours for me and my dancing aspirations. The
parties on Patterson Court provide an ample amount of dance floor space for people to maneuver comfortably on the dance
floor with the provided space. Some of my friends like to break dance, and in order to perform moves such
as the windmill and worm, a fair amount of space is needed. This much-needed space is provided at the houses
on Patterson Court. The parties on Patterson Court allow me to dance with my friends while providing us with enough
space to optimize our moves and be the best dancers we possibly can.

HAVE AN OPINION. WRITE IT DOWN. Give it to Erin (x6306).
