By Carrig ARTHUR Staff Writer

On Apr. 15, Peter Makuck presented the Charles Lloyd Award for Nonfiction Prose. Senior Carlo Reynolds won first place for “Pinkfish.” Senior Kristen Richardson received the second-place award for “Written in November,” and the third-place winner was senior Emily Rickers for “Two Worlds Colliding: Cultural Identity in Shakespeare’s ‘Othello’ and ‘Antony and Cleopatra.’”

An English major, Reynolds plans to attend medical school after graduation. Beginning to write in high school for class and the newspaper, Reynolds won a National Council of Teachers in English award for a collection of essays. Reynolds has continued to write at Davidson and has occasionally written for The Davidsonian’s sports section. He said that English professor Cynthia Lewis and Dr. Pinckney Benedict have been his two big motivators. Reynolds took the 1996 McGee professor Benedict’s creative writing class and Lewis’s nonfiction prose class. Lewis’s class directly influenced Reynolds’ essay “Pinkfish” because of its regular study of essays from the New Yorker. From reading the New Yorker, Reynolds learned the style of what he called “the personal essay and research,” which he used in “Pinkfish.”

Although he occasionally writes short stories, Reynolds regularly writes in his journal and reads for pleasure. He plans to continue writing for the rest of his life. Planning to be a doctor, Reynolds sees “giving a creative voice to cold science” as one of his missions. To Reynolds, the award is a confirmation of his mission: “The award means a lot to me because I want to be a doctor and to blend creativity and science. In this essay, I discovered a way to combine both.”

Reynolds originally wrote “Pinkfish” for Lewis’s nonfiction prose class. The subject of his essay is stuttering, a problem of which a minor version afflicted him as a child. Once Reynolds’s problem came back when he studied Spanish for two years at Davidson, he learned that his type of the affliction dealt with language acquisition and comfort. Despite his problem of stuttering in Spanish, Reynolds went to South America. In his essay, Reynolds relates his personal experiences stuttering as a child and in South America. Reynolds found as he researched that little is known about his type of stuttering, so that he felt like an “explorer” as well as a researcher. His type subsides once one’s comfort level and proficiency in the given language increases.

Of his essay, Makuck said, “‘Pinkfish’ is an outstanding personal essay about the affliction of stuttering. In fact, research and documentation make the essay more than personal so that it engages a reader on several levels. While we follow a narrative rich with incident, anecdote, and colorful detail, we also learn that Charles Lamb struggled with the problem all his life, that recent research underscores a complex relationship between stuttering and the structure of language, and that a leading authority on the subject believes the critical factor in a stutterer’s beating his affliction is a change in self-perception. It is the essay’s informational dimension combined with the writer’s vivid account of his ordeal in Paraguay that make for compelling reading. But it must also be said that both the pain and the brave comedy of the writer’s experiences would not be nearly so powerful were they not filtered through a lens of language that is polished and crafted.”

Makuck is a professor of English at East Carolina University. He received his B.A. from St. Francis College, his M.A. from Niagara University, and his Ph.D. from Kent State University. The author ofEight books, Makuck has written collections of short fiction, volumes of poetry, and a poetry text/anthology. In addition to writing, Makuck is the editor of “Tar River Poetry,” a nationally recognized journal, and he has written numerous essays, reviews, and translations. Makuck’s awards include the title Distinguished Professor of Arts and Sciences for what his resume calls “career achievement as teacher and writer” and the title Best ECU Professor by the annual survey of the Greenville Times. He is a member of Phi Beta Delta, Phi Kappa Phi, Associated Writing Programs, and North Carolina Writer’s Network.

The Charles Lloyd Award for nonfiction prose began in 1987 in memory of Davidson English Professor Charles Lloyd. Previous winners include Sheri Reynolds, Todd Winston Cabell, Raoul William Robert, Ned Sarchet Erickson, and Cintra Pollack. Charles Lloyd was born in Birmingham, Ala., on Feb. 19, 1915. He earned his A.B. and Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of North Carolina in 1935 and his M.A. in 1960. Before teaching at Davidson, Lloyd taught at UNC, Barber-Scotia, the University of Mississippi, Biltmore College, the Westminster Schools in Atlanta, and Mebane public schools. Lloyd also lectured at the Volkshochschule in Wiesbaden. He served in the Army from 1942 until 1946, during which time he received the Bronze Star. After World War II, he worked for Governmental Affairs and the State Department as a policy advisor to the Deputy High Commissioner for Germany. His eulogy says that “Charlie helped many Germans to accommodate to their postwar freedom.”

Lloyd taught at Davidson from 1956 until 1980. He was also a husband, father of four, Bible-study teacher, and hiker. Known for his encyclopedic knowledge and ability to speak seven or more languages, Lloyd began coaching Davidson’s College Bowl team in 1969. The 1969 and 1979 teams won the national championship, and the 1979 team lost the international championship by one question. The July 18, 1986 edition of the Charlotte Observer quoted Eugene Davis as saying, “He was like a walking encyclopedia.” The Charlotte Observer also quoted Davidson Professor of English J. Gill Holland as saying, “He was a great yea-sayer. He made you feel like life was worth living to its fullest just by standing beside him and talking to him.” Also in the Observer, Dr. Frontis Johnston said, “He inspired his students through his own enthusiasm. He was a kind of missionary who communicated his enthusiasm for learning and his knowledge to his students.”

PRECIOUS TIMES CONSIGNMENT CENTER
Let me write you a check
We Resell So You Don’t Have To!!
Furniture, sports & exercise equipment, lamps, pictures, etc.
664-2247
165 N. Main St.
Downtown Mooresville
Closed Sun.-Mon.

SUMMER INTERNSHIPS
First Union has excellent summer opportunities available for individuals looking to gain valuable experience before starting their careers. In addition to earning great money, you will be provided with exceptional training. Project dates are May 26 - August 21. Motivated, dedicated candidates should fax their resumes to Brandi at: 704-383-0996. First Union is an equal opportunity employer M/F/D/V.

702 high school students visited Davidson in April. 5 Senior Admission Fellows greeted them all. In recognition of all their hard work serving the many students and parents who have visited Davidson this past year, the Office of Admission and Financial Aid would like to thank each of our Senior Admission Fellows: Jean Boehmler, Scott, Kevin Saunt, Amy Kanoff, Meredith Moseley, Tim Satuising, and Sarah Teachworth. We will miss you!