SOUTHERN CONFERENCE
TOURNAMENT PREVIEW

Mark Donnelly and Jen O’Brien lead the men’s and women’s basketball teams into their respective Southern Conference tournaments this weekend
in Greensboro. The men, the top overall seed in the league, face the winner of Thursday’s East Tennessee St.-Georgia Southern
play-in game Friday at noon. The women, seeded third, face Appalachian St. Friday at 8:30 p.m.

With nine-game win streak, men hit Triad as league’s hottest team

By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

Jan. 12 marked rock bottom for the men’s basketball team.

After a grueling road swing over Christmas Break, a three-point home loss to VMI left the Wildcats at 6-8 overall
and just 2-2 in league play. So much for the lofty preseason predictions of a possible national ranking, undefeated conference
run, and an all-but-guaranteed NCAA berth.

Not so fast, said Keydet coach Bart Bellairs. Just you wait.

“Trust me, they’ll be there come tournament time,” he told the media after VMI’s first win ever in Belk Arena.
“I’m not ever going to feel sorry for Davidson basketball. They're just too good.”

Thanks to some bounce-back tennis balls — the coaching staff’s brainchild — upped defensive ante, and an ever-more-fearsome interior attack,
Bellairs — much to his dismay, no doubt — has proved prophetic.

The Wildcats, winners of nine in a row and 11 of their last 12 — the one loss coming Jan.
22 to now-20th-ranked UMass — enter this weekend’s conference tournament at Greensboro Coliseum as the league’s hottest team.

Again.

Two years ago, Davidson took a 23-3 record and 19 straight wins to the Triad, but was shocked in the
title game by an upstart Western Carolina squad. Last year, a near-flawless February went for naught, as Chattanooga knocked out
the Wildcats with a championship-caliber performance in the semifinals.

So is this the year, despite the early-season

See Men on page 2

After record regular season, women aiming high for tourney

By David Rosenberg
Staff Writer

“Sometimes this team needs a slap in the face to get going,” women’s basketball coach John Filar said in a
recent interview.

Davidson’s loss Feb. 14 to UNC Greensboro may have been just that — a wicked Valentine’s Day slap.

But who’s ever had a good Valentine’s Day anyway?

With the Southern Conference tournament ahead this weekend, the Wildcats are — believe it or not — right where they
want to be.

“That loss to UNCG was just a wake-up call,” Filar explained.

Much better now than one game into the tournament. One can find throughout the Wild-

lowed by five- and six-game winning streaks.

And a five-game winning streak this late in the year would give them the conference championship and the NCAA bid
that comes with it.

“This team is excited and focused,” Filar said. “They have their sights set pretty high.”

Just three years ago, the team finished 4-23. To have climbed so high so fast does not phase anyone, and
neither does having their eyes locked on the coveted NCAA bid, something a Davidson women’s basketball team has never earned.

“If you don’t dream it and think about it, it’s never going to happen,” Filar said.

The Wildcats must first get by a familiar foe, Appalachian St., Friday in the conference quarterfinals at Fleming Gym on
the campus of UNCG.

See Women on page 3
