U EB ; O er : 7 oh 1 Pees AA..: 4

It’s official: the greatest season ever

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

A five-year-old boy named Trent Thornton (nephew of the Wildcat star linebacker, Wes) sat in the bleachers at Bridgewater College Saturday watching the Wildcat football team. The loyal Trent looked at his uncle’s team and commented, “They’re good.” He didn’t know how right he was.

The 1998 Wildcats made school history with a record 8th victory, defeating Bridgewater on Saturday 14-8 for the first eight-win season in Davidson’s 101-year football history. The win marked their seventh consecutive, tying a mark set back in World War One. President Vagt offered words of congratulations to the '98 squad following the game, “I think when something happens only once in 101 years, we all ought to feel this great sense of pride. And the greatest thing of the game was how happy they were at the end of it, and that doesn’t begin to match how happy we are for them.”

The Wildcats won the toss before the game, and senior captain Chris Frederick made the call to receive the kick. The ‘Cats received that opening kickoff and drove deep into Eagle territory before a touchdown was called back on an illegal procedure infraction. Davidson was forced to settle for a FG from Brian Langley and a 3-0 lead with 7:57 remaining in the first quarter.

Bridgewater came up with an impressive drive off the ensuing kickoff, before freshman linebacker Sam Fraundorf delivered a bone-crushing hit to the Eagle receiver of a 3-yard shovel pass. The hit contributed to a key stop early in the game, as Bridgewater was forced to attempt a 57-yard field goal that came up short.

Less than five minutes into the second quarter, the Wildcats struck again, this time on a touchdown carry by Eric Ferguson who totaled 95 rushing yards on the day. The ‘Cats caught the Bridgewater defense off guard on the conversion attempt, resulting in a 2-point conversion pass to Ferguson and an 11-0 score.

Late in the quarter, senior defensive back Clif Henry came up with a huge play to quash a Bridgewater drive. On 4th and 3, the Eagles ran the ball wide to the left. It appeared the first down would be a gimme until the Wildcat defender tore out of the backfield with a drive-ending tackle. The ‘Cats took over the ball but went four-and-out, giving Bridgewater one more shot at a score. This time, the Eagles drove down to Davidson’s 22, and with 8 seconds left booted a 39-yard field goal to cut the lead at halftime to 11-3.

Bridgewater received possession of the football to open the second half and were driving down the field until sophomore Bo Henderson recovered a fumble to give the ‘Cats possession. Yet again, the ‘Cats were unable to capitalize, ending the drive with a missed field goal.

Mid-way through the 3rd quarter, the Wildcats put together what would prove to be their final scoring drive of the season. Sophomore Corey “Slash” Crawford started it off with an impressive kick-off return up to the 38-yard line. Just plays later, Bryan Kern exploded out of the Davidson backfield.

On the following possession, it was Wes Jones that came up with the big play, flushing the Eagle passer out of the pocket that led to a poor pass and another fourth down punt. Jones would deliver yet again later in the quarter: On a crucial 4th-down conversion with just over two minutes left in the game, the Wildcat tight-end turned defensive end Mr. Brian McGee at Bridgewater on Saturday. “Everyday’s a great day to be a Wildcat.”

Football
Wildcats 14
Bridgewater 8

Volleyball
Wildcats 1
Wofford 3

Men’s Basketball
Wildcats 86
VASDA 78

Women’s Basketball
Wildcats 65
SW Missouri St. 120

Women’s Swimming
Wildcats 101
Carolina 131

Eric Ferguson chalks up a few of his team-high 95 yards.McGee Men's Swimming
Ga. Southern 114
Wildcats 110
E. Carolina 125

Wes Jones pursues the Bridgewater quarterback. Christa Conner Diving and thanks in part to a nice bit of downfield blocking by Roland Williams, Kern’s spectacular run gave the ‘Cats a 1st-and-goal at the Eagle 9-yard line. Three plays and a holding penalty later, Langley booted a 27-yard field goal from the left hash mark, giving Davidson a 14-6 lead. The ‘Cats defense lived up to form with some impressive 3rd-down stops to maintain the lead throughout the fourth quarter. Early in the fourth, Ben Spivey (who tied the team’s sack record on the day) delivered a crushing hit to the Bridgewater quarterback, forcing an errant pass and a fourth down punt.

Mr. Brian McGee Volleyball Travel to Appalachian State to take on Georgia Southern in applied the pressure to force an overthrown pass out of the back of the end zone. The ‘Cats took over the ball on their own six-yard line, 2:03 away from history. On the last crucial play of the game, Dugan carried the ball for a first down on a 3rd and 2, sealing the victory. Dugan’s run marked the final installment of yardage to his school record for total career offense. With 54 seconds left and Bridgewater out of time-outs, it was only a matter of time. Fraundorf and Chad Wright doused head coach Tim Landis with his second Gatorade bath in as many weeks. Brian McGee and Jerry Saunders line up.

One word could describe the celebratory atmosphere following the game: Class. The ’98 Wildcats showed modesty and humility on their opponent’s football field, calmly shaking hands and then kneeling in prayer at mid-field. Fans and parents joined the elated team on the field as the Wildcats sang O, Davidson! Coach Landis was lifted upon his players’ shoulders and the modest head coach held the game ball up high. Tears flowed and congratulations abounded before the team boarded the buses to head back to Davidson. When they arrived home, a gathering of students, alumni, and parents were on-hand at Richardson Field to celebrate the team’s milestone accomplishment. Senior Tom Ting was in awe, “I’ve never seen anything like this. I’ve dreamed about it and seen it on TV, but never expected it to happen to me.” The senior captain reflected, “Like (associate head coach and defensive coordinator) Coach Merritt said early on, there is just something special about this team. We didn’t know exactly what it was, but the chemistry just came together.”

Wes Thornton added, “This is the end-all. This is the best feeling we’ve ever had. We’ve been working so hard in the off-season and throughout the regular season. Words can’t explain it. To start off 1-2, and have a couple of close games late, it was pretty tough. But we held tight and stuck together. It’s been a really emotional day for me and a lot of the seniors. These guys are my best friends. It’s been a great experience, one that I’ll cherish and never forget.” The victory had to be all the sweeter for the Class of ’98, a group of young men who have watched this football program develop from a 1-8-1 team during their freshman campaign into a national powerhouse in Division I-AA football. Quarterback and captain Tom Dugan said, “This is the exact opposite of that rock bottom. All of us seniors have been here when we’ve had tough times. For us to pull it off and end it like this is a dream come true. Goes to show you what faith and endurance will do for you when you’re struggling.”

Volleyball
Women’s Basketball
Nov. 21 vs. Georgia Tech, 7:30 PM, Belk Arena
Men’s Basketball
Nov. 23 @ Navy
Women’s Swimming
Wildcats 160
Ga. Southern 81

Conner, a sophomore, won the 3-meter diving event and took second in the 1-meter Saturday. The first round of the Southern Conference Tournament on Friday at 7:30 PM. Nov. 20 @ Appalachian State vs. Georgia Southern 7:30