THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rumors swirl around Davidson coach a hot commodity

By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

ESPN college basketball analyst Jay Bilas named men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop one of “six coaches you need to know”
earlier this month in a column on ESPN’s website — in other words, a hot commodity in the ever-changing coaching
job market, someone who could have a different address in a matter of weeks. The former Duke star wasn’t kidding.
Two days after Michigan beat Davidson in the NCAA tournament, Virginia athletics director Terry Holland — a former basketball coach
and A.D. at Davidson — tabbed McKillop as one of four candidates “you’d have to consider” for the Cavaliers’ head
coaching position vacated by an embattled Jeff Jones, who resigned after a miserable 11-19 season.

As it turned out, not McKillop, nor any of the other original four Holland named in the Washington Post —
Oklahoma’s Kelvin Sampson, George Washington’s Mike Jarvis, and Old Dominion’s Jeff Capel — were ever under any serious consideration. Dayton’s
Oliver Purnell interviewed for the job, but Pete Gillen, who led Providence to the Elite Eight in 1997, was named
the new head man in Charlottesville on March 28.

That’s not the end of the story, though. McKillop’s name surfaced in rumors surrounding the opening at UNC Charlotte. According
to the Dallas Morning News website on Monday, UNCC coach Melvin Watkins has accepted a five-year deal worth $550,000 annually.
Watkins will be announced as the Aggies' new coach at a news conference Wednesday in College Station. With Watkins now
gone, one top candidate to replace him is current assistant Bobby Lutz. Appalachian’s Buzz Peterson — a.k.a. former roommate of
Michael Jordan — might also merit consideration.

Future Wildcat a Carolinas All-Star

By MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Senior Staff Writer

ROCK HILL, S.C. — If nothing else, Martin Ides is big. Real big. Ides, a standout center at East Burke
High School in Icard, N.C., committed to Davidson last fall during the early signing period. At 7-foot-2 and 280 pounds,
the native of the Czech Republic is set to bring unprecedented size to the Wildcat program. After averaging a double-double
as a senior this year at EBHS — his team advanced to the North Carolina 4A semi-finals — Ides represented
the state in the inaugural Carolinas All-Star Basketball Classic March 29 at Winthrop Coliseum.

Although the big man had no points on 0-for-2 shooting and two rebounds in just 10 minutes, North Carolina head
coach Terry Rogers had some good things to say about the future Wildcat. “He’s going to make Davidson an awfully
good basketball team,” Rogers said after his team fell to the South Carolinians 96-93. “Martin’s a fine young man.” Even
so, Rogers added, “Endurance is tough for him. When you’re 7-2 and you weigh that much, it’s tough to get
into playing condition. And he’s going to have to work on his post moves some more.”

Ides, ranked No. 275 nationally in this year’s prep class according to the Recruiter’s Handbook, was unavailable for comment following
the game. Other players of note who participated in the game: Casey Rogers, a 5-11 point guard who will play
at Western Carolina next year, had six points, six rebounds, and two assists. Independence High star Jobey Thomas, who will
take his 6-4 frame and two-guard skills to UNC Charlotte, had 11 points. Ervin Murray, a 6-5 swingman who has
committed to Wake Forest, added seven points and three boards. Josh Howard, an extremely active 6-7 forward who will likely
have to hone his academic standing in junior college before playing at the Division I level, was tabbed the game’s
MVP after a dominant 23-point, 18-rebound performance.

For South Carolina, Dustin Braddock is set to attend Clemson, while Aaron Lucas and Damien Kinloch are both headed to
Columbia to play for Eddie Fogler’s Gamecocks.

Basketball Notebook

By MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Also... Ali Ton finished the season ranked 13th in the nation in assists at 6.6 per game. The junior point
guard’s 11 steals Nov. 29 against Tufts also turned out to be the most in a game by any Division
I men’s hoopster in the country this year. Ton averaged 6.8 assists a contest as a sophomore, finishing ninth in
the NCAA ... All five members of the Davidson coaching staff — head coach Bob McKillop, associate head coach Steve
Shurina, assistants Matt Matheny and Jason Zimmerman, and administrative assistant Sean Sosnowski — were in San Antonio for last weekend’s
Final Four. All returned on Sunday except for McKillop, who stayed to do some television shows on Monday ... According
to Shurina, Emeka Erege’s broken left leg — an injury suffered in a game Jan. 24 against Western Carolina —
is healing well. The 6-4 sophomore-to-be is expected back for the official beginning of practice in October.

Lacrosse wins two over weekend

Rothemund breaks two records, Fleck closes in on another

Lacrosse from page 16

Once again, Linda Rothemund led the way. Against Limestone, Rothemund, a junior, set two Davidson records. She set a single-game
record for points as she had eleven points on four goals and seven assists. In the process, she also broke
Sarah Hogan’s record of thirty-two assists for a career. By the end of the day, Rothemund had thirty-six. In the
upcoming games, another career record should fall as Amanda Fleck is now five points closer to the all-time points leader.
Fleck upped her total to 119 as she scored three goals and had two assists. Lauren Kenchington continued to have
a great first year.As she scored three goals on Sunday, Kenchington’s performance against Limestone capped a week in which she
managed nine goals. Also garnering hat tricks were Lacy Garcia and Katie Nelson. Davidson’s next match is against a tough
Virginia Tech team on the road on Wednesday. So it doesn’t look like McKillop will head 12 miles down Interstate-77.
He’ll be back for his 10th season on the Davidson sideline next year, right? Not so fast.

In Sunday’s Providence (R.I.) Journal-Bulletin, McKillop was dubbed as one “who could make the PC list,” along with Princeton’s Bill
Carmody, Drexel’s Bill Herrion, St. Joseph’s Phil Martelli, Xavier’s Skip Prosser, and Friar assistant Bobby Gonzalez. The early frontrunners, though,
are Iona’s Tim Welsh and Boston University’s Dennis Wolff. BU went to the NCAAs last season, Iona this year. Welsh’s
Gaels lost a squeaker in the first round to eventual Sweet 16 participant Syracuse. And one thing’s for sure: Providence
is a proven stepping stone to bigger and better things for up-and-coming college coaches. Before Gillen, current Clemson coach Rick
Barnes led the Friars. Before Barnes, it was Rick Pitino, who won a national championship at Kentucky before bolting for
mounds of money as the Boston Celtics’ top dog.

McKillop did not return from the Final Four in San Antonio until late last night. But McKillop isn’t the only
Davidson coach who could soon be elsewhere. Associate head coach Steve Shurina has talked to the athletics director at Winthrop
about the Eagles’ opening. Shurina, McKillop’s right-hand man for the last six years, confirmed his candidacy yesterday, having already returned
from San Antonio. A teammate of Chris Mullin at St. John’s University in his playing days, Shurina was a finalist
for the Furman job last year. According to Shurina, there are four or five others in the running at Winthrop,
a crop which originally included Lutz from UNCC. Lutz withdrew his name from consideration in the past couple of days,
though—perhaps an indication that there will be an opening in Charlotte for which he would be a top candidate.

BY BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

What a difference a year, money, and scholarships make. Last year, Davidson drubbed the Fightin’ Irish of Notre Dame 21-8
in the Irish’s first year of Division I lacrosse. On Friday night, an Irish team led mainly by freshmen and
sophomores had their revenge as they defeated Davidson 18-11. In their second year, Notre Dame’s lacrosse team has taken advantage
of being part of the most famous program in all of college sports. The Irish’s prestige and wealth have allowed
them to recruit heavily and land top players. Seven out of twelve starters were first-year players. The result was evident
on Friday.

Notre Dame scored the first goal forty-five seconds into the contest on a Mara Grace goal. In the next five
minutes, Davidson dominated the game with a strong attack. Katie Williams knotted the game at one with her first goal
at the 27:13 mark. Two minutes later, freshman Lauren Kenchington put Davidson ahead 2-1. For the next twenty minutes, the
Irish took control of the game. Led by freshmen Courtney Calabrese and Lael O’Shaughnessy, the Irish scored nine unanswered goals.
Both Calabrese and O’Shaughnessy scored two goals each. The Irish were able to dominate the Cats with their quickness and
accurate passing. While the Wildcat defense often seemed overwhelmed, one bright spot was freshman Stephanie Hunter. Hunter forced eight Notre
Dame turnovers. Davidson finally scored at the 7:45 mark with a goal by Linda Rothemund. Davidson scored once more before
the half, but Notre Dame managed three more to lead 13-4 at the break.

In the second half, Davidson came out very strong. The first seven minutes of the half were all Davidson as
they scored the first four goals. Unfortunately for Davidson, this was the closest the ‘Cats would get. The Irish retook
control of the game as they scored three goals in the next 2:23, including two goals in a span of
only twelve seconds. The last twenty minutes of the contest were marked by strong defense on both sides. Both goalies
made some excellent saves. Davidson goalie Lisa Benjamin played well in the second half and finished with ten saves. For
Notre Dame, freshman Carrie Marshall had a career-high sixteen saves.

For Davidson, freshman Lauren Kenchington had her best game to date, scoring five goals. Junior Katie Williams continued to have
a great season scoring three to raise her team-leading total to fifteen. Katie Nelson added two goals in the losing
effort. Notre Dame’s Calabrese equaled Kenchington’s performance with five goals. Lael O’Shaughnessy, a high school teammate of Davidson’s Liz Hoekstra,
totaled five points with four goals and an assist. Another freshman, Kathryn Perrella, had a goal and three assists for
the Irish. Sophomore Kerry Callahan had three goals and two assists. On the evening, twelve out of eighteen goals for
Notre Dame were scored by freshmen. Davidson played very well for much of the game. Had it not been for
the Irish’s 9-0 run in the first half, things would have been very different. Davidson has nothing to be ashamed
of as they lost to a vastly improved Notre Dame team. After the game, Notre Dame, showing respect for the
Davidson program, called its win the biggest in its program’s short history.

Lou GEHRIG
Golfing for Play in the tournament to support research of ALS (Lou Gehrig’s Disease) and to win fabulous prizes:
- A trip to St. Andrews in Scotland
- A new Volvo
- $10,000 cash
- New sets of Ping irons

To sign up to play in the tournament, the 3rd Annual Gehrig, contact John Steffen at x6808.
