Women split two in conference play
BY Bratton Hotes
Sports Editor

On their rigorous Southern Conference schedule, the women’s tennis team faced Appalachian State and UNC-Greensboro earlier this month. The team
crushed App. State to bring them closer to the .500 mark, and then dropped a match to UNCG to leave
them at 6-7 on the season.

The Wildcats gave up only one point to the Mountaineers. Dana Casner, the perennial #1 player, and rookie Kristen Koenig
each won their matches in straight sets, as did Lynne Shore and Brenna Tindall at the #5 and #6 spots.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Claire Cheatwood, playing #3, won her match after the opponent forced a third set. Cheatwood won the first set 7-5
and lost the second 1-6. The final set ended 6-4 in favor of Cheatwood to give Davidson five of the
six singles matches. The Wildcats swept the doubles matches to win the doubles point as well. At the #1 doubles
spot, Casner and Koenig handily defeated their opponents 8-1. Shore and Clara Marks won 8-2 at the #2 spot, as
did Tindall and Cheatwood at #3.

Marks, at #4 singles, was the only Wildcat to lose a match to the Mountaineers. She rebounded from a goose
egg in the first set to win the second 6-2 and force a third set. However, Marks could not complete
the comeback and lost the third set.

The momentum of the strong win over App. was not enough to carry the women past the Spartans of UNCG.
In a nine-point match, Davidson won four singles matches to tie the Spartans, but lost the doubles point. The final
score was 5-4 in favor of UNCG.

Casner lost the first match to UNCG’s top player to put Davidson down by a point. Koenig tied the match
up again with a 6-2, 6-4 win, and Amber Bradford won at the #3 spot 6-4, 7-5. A Davidson victory
looked likely after the first three matches, but the Spartans swept the next three matches to go up by two
points. Clara Marks and Anna Holland, playing #7 and #8, responded by winning their matches to once again tie up
the match.

The doubles point would be the difference between a win and a loss. Lynne Shore and Marks won a very
hard-fought match by a score of 9-8, but it proved inconsequential. UNCG won the other two doubles matches to clinch
the doubles point and victory in the match.

Lady Wildcats tennis routes Pitt., road match to WVU loses close
BY ALISON KALETT
Staff Writer

This past Saturday was a busy one for the Davidson women’s tennis team. At West Virginia, the Lady Wildcats took
on both West Virginia University and the University of Pittsburgh. The University of Pittsburgh proved no match for the Wildcats
as Davidson swept all singles matches as well as winning doubles due to a Pittsburgh forfeit. However, against West Virginia
University, Davidson encountered a much tougher opponent and ended up losing the overall match by a narrow 6 to 3
margin.

Against the University of Pittsburgh, all Davidson singles players had relatively easy straight-set victories. This was especially true at #1
and #2 singles where Freshman Kristen Koenig and Junior Dana Casner each only dropped one game in their wins. The
remaining singles players: Bradford, Cheatwood, Shore, and Marks also cruised to their singles victories. Because Davidson led by an insurmountable
6 to 0 score after the singles, Pittsburgh chose to forfeit the doubles matches.

Unfortunately, Davidson’s other Saturday match against West Virginia University was not nearly as easy. Three of Davidson’s six singles matches
went to three sets. These included #1 seed Dana Casner, who lost her match by a 3-6, 7-5, 6-1 score;
#2 Kristen Koenig who triumphed 7-5, 6-2, after dropping the first set 3-6; and Lynne Shore who lost her #5
singles match in a heartbreaking third set tiebreaker. Unfortunately, #3 Amber Bradford and #4 Claire Cheatwood lost their matches by
respective 6-0, 7-6 and 6-0, 6-2 margins. However, Clara Marks won her match in straight sets, 6-2, 6-4 improving her
personal record to 2 and 0 at #6 singles. After all the singles matches were complete, WVU had a 4
to 2 match edge.

In order for Davidson to come out with a victory, they needed to win all three doubles contests. This scenario
was not unlikely as all the doubles teams had solid season records. At #1 doubles, the team of Casner and
Koenig had a tough and undoubtedly exciting match, yet fell short of victory losing 9 to 7. The #2 team
of Bradford and Cheatwood won their close doubles match 8 to 6, while improving their season record to 5 and
7. Lastly, the #3 team of Holland and Marks fell by a close 8 to 5 score, giving them a
.500 (2-2) record for the season. Because WVU won two of the three doubles matches, they claimed the overall match
by a 6 to 3 score.

Although Davidson lost to WVU, the weekend can still be deemed successful. The match against WVU was extremely close and
could have gone either way. Not to mention that the rout of the University of Pittsburgh undoubtedly added to team
confidence. Individually, players such as Kristen Koenig and Clara Marks had outstanding matches. Koenig upped her record to 9 and
3 at #2 singles and 10 and 4 overall, while Marks garnered her third and fourth victories of the season.
The Women’s Tennis team now owns a solid 7 and 8 record. Upcoming matches include a contest at Western Carolina
on March 31, as well as a home match against Southern Conference foe East Tennessee State.

Baseball wins two big games in Boone
Baseball from page 16

and a third inning. In the bottom of the fourth, ASU finally succeeded in knocking Davidson starter Eric Bowers off
the mound. They scored three more runs. The crucial blow was a triple by ASU’s third baseman Mike Berrier. He
knocked in two runs. Berrier later scored on a sacrifice hit by shortstop Travis Pitman.

After two quiet innings, Davidson reached the top of the sixth facing a four-run deficit. Mike DeSimone reached first on
a walk. Taking advantage of a wild pitch by John Anderson, DeSimone reached second. Next, Sloan doubled for the ninth
time this season, scoring DeSimone. Marshall Tyler made it a one-run game when he hit his first home run of
the season.

DeSimone came in to pitch in relief of sophomore Jamie McDonald in the same inning. After giving up a walk
to Berrier, he responded to the situation by picking him off at first base. The next two hitters did nothing.
This set the stage for a Wildcat comeback. After Ben Brown flied out to left and Joyce struck out, the
Cats were down to their final out. Luke Goodwin refused to be the last out, singling to left. Mike DeSimone,
a hero in past games, now stepped to the plate. With a swing of the bat, DeSimone put the Cats
up 12-11 as he sent the ball over the left-field fence. It was his fifth home run of the year.

After walking right fielder Andy Cheek with two outs, DeSimone forced John Anderson to fly out. DeSimone pitched two scoreless
and hitless innings. For the season, his record is now 2-1. DeSimone, who went 3 for 4 with 4 RBIs,
was obviously the hero of the game. Still, many Wildcats had good games. Goodwin, Tyler, and Sloan all had two
hits. With his home run, Tyler had two RBIs.

On Sunday afternoon, the Wildcats tried to complete the sweep of the Mountaineers. It was not to be as Davidson
was never able to recover from an early 8-1 deficit. ASU managed eleven runs on thirteen hits on the game.
Five separate Mountaineer hitters managed two hits each against three Davidson pitchers.B Both second baseman Shane Sigmon and catcher Matt
Dalton each had solo home runs. Andy Cheek, John Anderson, and Stephen Crater all had 2 RBIs each. While the
final was 11-7 ASU, Davidson scored six out of their seven runs in the last four innings. Jeremiah Parvin provided
some fireworks for the Cats when he hit his third home run of the year. Drew Williams also hit the
ball well, managing two hits. DeSimone went 2 for 5 with 2 RBIs. On the series, he finished 7 for
14 with a game-winning home run and 6 RBIs. He also had a win and a save. Parvin also had
a good series. He finished with four hits, two of them home runs. While the Wildcats hoped for a sweep,
at this stage taking two out of three games in conference is a very good achievement. It gives the Cats
confidence, something they’ll need the rest of the way. Davidson put together three of their best games this weekend. The
starting pitching was much improved, while the relief pitching was strong. Also, a very pleasant surprise came from the defense.
The Cats only made two errors during the weekend. Hopefully, the Cats will be able to use this series as
a stepping stone for the rest of the season. Davidson’s next game is at home against ACC power Wake Forest
on Wednesday.

TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1998

Right field heckling - just jolly good fun

David Rosenberg
Staff Writer

From afar, during these peaceful spring afternoons, one can hear the echo of the gentle ting of a baseball against
a metal bat. The dugout is filled with baseball chatter and an umpire’s curdling yell can carry for a mile.
But most opposing teams’ nightmare isn’t the starting pitcher’s slider nor the sheer power of Davidson’s cleanup hitter. It’s the
hecklers out by right field. They are like wrecking balls with vocal cords.

One may think of hecklers as the ill-clad, jersey-donning, drunken fans that hide cries of complaint behind smelly beer belches.
Those hecklers found at professional sporting events might yell brutish and rash insults regarding the brand of combat boots a
hitter’s mother might wear or insist that the first baseman’s conception occurred as the result of a serious case of
beer goggles. But heckling at such a prestigious academic institution as Davidson College is quite different.

280 feet from home plate, beyond the right field wall lie two rows of worn, wooden benches, classically pounded into
the dirt by slightly overweight Davidson students. On a perfect afternoon, the sun can shine just right, and tan lines
may become ever so more distinct. And while the competition of the game attracts many, the humorous heckling of the
visiting team amuses the masses almost as much.

Perhaps the most unkind punishment a coach could hand a delinquent player would be a starting position in right field
against the Wildcats. Upon learning of a starting position, a player’s knees may quiver; he may nervously forget to spit
the shells off of his sunflower seeds, or begin profusely spreading oil on his glove, mumbling to himself why he
ever took up the silly game of baseball.

“Davidson Heckling” entails deep research into the life of an innocent right fielder. Students utilize the investigative skills that have
brought them to such a place and formulate smart puns and plays on words that leave home fans chuckling to
themselves and in wait of the next bout of humor. Cries of, “I’ve seen better swings in a playground!” and
“I’ve seen better cuts from safety scissors!” bounce off the team bleachers as grinning fans shake their heads at the
jolly-good pleasantry.

Though the puns may be entertaining, nothing can satisfy an audience better than bringing out old dirt on opposing players,
as was the case with the starting Cincinnati right fielder who will remain nameless but we will refer to simply
as “Bud”. Through intense database research and consultation of private sources, the heckling crew learned that Bud enjoyed videotaping himself
and his girlfriend in intimate settings. Need we say more?

Hearty laughs and backslapping of fellow buddies filled the crowd after each sly comment about Bud’s private films. Unfortunately for
the Wildcats, however, Bud used the heckling humor to springboard outstanding five for six hitting for the day. Bud found
himself so perturbed by the insults that in mid-stride towards second base, the right field fans received the gift of
his middle finger. Such a gift gave those Wildcat fans their heartiest laugh of the afternoon, and they returned their
focus to the game at hand, anticipating the next chance to construct a clever pun.

Unfortunately that day, the baseball team lost to Cincinnati and the Wildcats returned to the showers with sullen looks on
their faces. However, with all due respect to the Davidson baseball team, it need not worry about a drop in
fan attendance. Whatever the outcome of the game may be, and however many games the team may lose in a
season, fans will always be quick to drop their studies to catch a quick game - granted the weather stay
fair and the clouds shy away from game days. Heckling is just so damn fun.

12 runners set season bests at Emory

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

On a sunny, 82-degree day in Atlanta, the track teams saw their first true day of spring and had to
deal with it. Despite the balmy conditions, a dozen runners set season-best times, and seven of them were personal bests.
28 teams competed at the Emory Classic, including Southern Conference rivals Western Carolina, who won the meet, and Furman. Thomas
McElveen was the first to set a personal best for the men. In the 1500, McElveen beat his previous best
time by five seconds by finishing the race in 4:07.92. This was also the team’s best time this season. Keith
Chapman had a season-best time in the 800, finishing in 1:59.55. In the steeplechase, the Wildcats had two solid finishes
from Tim O’Keefe and Scott Hutchins. O’Keefe posted a time of 10:33.67. Hutchins improved over his previous time by almost
40 seconds, finishing in 10:51.46. The 4x400 relay team had its best time of the season by four seconds, finishing
with a time of 3:29.80. The relay team consisted of Chapman, Ade Artis, Mike Albert, and Karim Lawrence.

For the women, several runners set personal and season bests. Miranda Todd had a personal best in the 100m, as
did Kathleen Shields in the 1500. In the 3000m race, Kate Feldmeyer and Clare Frey each had personal bests and
finished 11th and 13th respectively in the event. Freshman Smyth Bitter ran her fastest time ever in the 1500m with
a time of 4:46, good enough to finish second in the event. Her time was three hundredths of a second
shy of the Junior National Qualifying mark. Jamilah Sawyer, who continues to make headlines with her ever-improving times, had a
season-best time in the 100 hurdles. Her time of 14.86 gave her second place in the event and places her
among the top runners in the conference. Junior Jenny Klotz had a season-best in the 10,000m, finishing in 43:50. Jill
Neumayer finished ninth in the 800m with a season-best time of 2:21. Suzy Burr also finished 15th in the event
with a season-best 2:26. The 4x400 relay team followed suit from the men by posting a season-best time of 4:13,
which gave them an eighth-place finish in the event. Bitter, Burr, Neumayer, and Sawyer ran in the relay.

In what Assistant Coach Thomas Cason said was the team’s best meet of the season, the runners set at least
a season-best in almost every event. The improvement was clear and gives reason to be optimistic about the Duke Invitational
this weekend.
