Che

DAVIDSONIAN

“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

Caffeine. It’s on Main Street.
News 5

Davidson A-L: BoN. DA clo: UB I

He just won’t go away. Randy opines on chivalry.
OPINIONS 9

O.R T.A....L 1 B.ER.T.AS

Big, bad cyprus. Read about the Tree of the Week.
A&L 10

Volleyball trounces four. Girls kick ass.
SPORTS 12

The new Watson Science Building will be home to new technology provided by a $40,000 National Science Foundation grant.

New life sciences building nears completion
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

It’s official. The dedication of the Watson Life Sciences Building will take place on October 1st. “At that time,” said Physical Plant director Bob Collins, “the building will be 99.9% complete.”

According to the original building contract, work progress is actually right on schedule. Only because of a set of overly optimistic verbal concessions from the project contractor did college authorities believe the building might have been ready for occupation by the very beginning of this academic year.

“Everything’s in use and the faculty are already in their offices,” stated Collins. “All in all, it looks pretty good right now.”

The key emphasis throughout the building project, according to Collins, has been customer satisfaction. Project coordinators have continually solicited and sought to accommodate faculty requests. “Faculty members have been involved all along, even in some of the major decision processes,” related the Physical Plant director.

The latest adjustments to the building have focused primarily on interior technological instruments, data systems, and networking. Reconfiguration petitions were still flowing in as recently as thirty days ago. “There came a point when we had to draw the line,” said Collins. “That was about a month ago. We told faculty, ‘If you want a building that’s useable any time in the near future, the demands have to slow to a halt.’”

Collins said the flurry of faculty requests over the last few months can be attributed to the fact that most people can’t properly visualize the interior detail of a building until they actually step foot inside of it. “It’s difficult for the average person to understand the ins and outs of a building from the blueprints,” said Collins.

Although supply delivery delays, weather problems, and labor issues have continually threatened the timeline for project completion, Collins maintained that the actual time of construction has been more than reasonable: “From groundbreaking to occupancy, a complex project like this usually takes in excess of twenty-four months. We did it in a lot less than that. Everyone has worked very hard and there’s been a great deal of cooperation.”

After the Oct. 1st dedication ceremony, Collins and his staff will focus on “punch list” items such as electrical wiring or ventilation system deficiencies. “When you’re dealing with a new facility, it’s never perfect at the start,” stated Collins. “I don’t view buildings as complete until about a year after they’re occupied, when I’ve had some time to evaluate and gain feedback.”

Over 50 organizations represented at Volunteer Fair
By ALLISON BISHOPAssurance of stability and reliability. A lot of fine-tuning is involved, a lot of quality control issues.” Collins contends that the Watson Life Sciences Building is equal to or better than many graduate research institutions. “We’re ahead of the pack. The data processing capability in there is astounding.” The building’s state-of-the-art facilities, said Collins, promise to complement the superior level of instruction which has always been the standard at Davidson.

“Where we were five years ago and where we are now is like night and day. Public response has been overwhelmingly positive,” said Collins. “I just hope that, with technology changing so rapidly, our vision for the future is strong enough. Vision and cost efficiency are obviously intertwined.” For Collins, the completion of the Watson Life Sciences Building holds, in a sense, a bittersweet taste. “I always must play both the role of the eternal optimist and the extreme pessimist; the optimist to embrace the new, the pessimist to ensure its quality down the line.”

Staff Writer

On Thursday, Sept. 3, Davidson’s annual volunteer fair was held in Chambers Gallery from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. The volunteer fair is held each year to provide students with an opportunity to preview and collect information about service organizations in and around the Davidson areas. Programs represented range in focus from literacy organizations to Cub Scouts, and range in location from the Ada Jenkins Community Center to downtown Charlotte. Approximately 53 organizations were represented. Thirty-three organizations were from Davidson and various other outside community groups, while 20 organizations came from Reach Out.

The volunteer fair is “really the major time where we (Davidson) match up volunteers with the community,” said community service coordinator Bill Abrams. Abrams explained that most of the organizations are able to hire only a few full-time staff, so the addition of volunteers makes a huge difference. Reach Out president Britta Taylor said, “We want Davidson students to be excited to get out here and work.”

The volunteer fair has, in the past several years, become widely publicized and produced. Publicity for the event includes sidewalk chalk invitations, colored announcements for practically every student, posters, fliers, voice mail, footprints in the hallway of Chambers, music, food, sandwich boards on students at the door, and balloons everywhere. Volunteer support, as mentioned by Abrams, is present in every organization to some extent. Olene Taylor from Alexander Middle School explained that she needs ten to eleven tutors to help her students after school. Only thirty minutes after the start of the fair, eight people had signed up. Taylor came to the fair last year and was so overcome by the quality of the Davidson tutors that she hoped to get many more this year. Fran Landress, a representative from One-to-One Tutoring, also expressed her amazement at the “overwhelming support” offered by Davidson students. Landress admitted that many would not spend the hour a week tutoring others, which is the reason she is “so impressed” by Davidson students.

For those who were unable to attend the volunteer fair and want to become involved, contact Bill Abrams at 892-2460 or biabrams@davidson.edu.