__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

The Davidsonian’s Liz Neiheisel recently interviewed visiting Professor Timothy Steigenga of the Political Science Department.

Steigenga completed his undergraduate work at Calvin College, a private college in Michigan, and his graduate work at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Steigenga then taught at the University of Connecticut and the University of Massachusetts, commuting between the colleges. After a visiting professorship at Colby College, Steigenga accepted a visiting position at Davidson, where he teaches introductory level classes as well as courses focusing on Latin America. Next semester, Steigenga will teach a seminar on Religion in Latin America.

The Davidsonian: What prompted your interest in Latin American politics?

Steigenga: My original interest came from reading a book as an undergraduate about Guatemala called “Bitter Fruit.” After that, I traveled to Central America during the January terms of both my junior and senior years. After graduation, I worked in Costa Rica as a writer and editor for a news publication called “Mesoamerica.”

D: Why are the concerns of Latin American politics important to the United States?

S: The current economic crisis points to one of the largest reasons why Latin American politics remain important to the United States. Increasingly, our economies (as well as our cultures) are linked. Today, to learn about Latin America is also to learn about ourselves. Issues of immigration, economic relations, drugs, language, and culture connect us to the politics of Latin America. But beyond that, Latin America also provides a wealth of cases to study to learn about the successes and failures of democracy and development. What has worked? What has not? What role have we played in the process? These questions are not only interesting to political scientists; they are important for determining future policy and for the lives of those affected by that policy.

D: What are the biggest issues currently facing Latin America? (I know you mentioned the economic situation. Does this include the recent crisis in Brazil and how does Brazil’s situation affect the countries surrounding it?)

S: At the moment, one of the largest issues facing Latin America is a potential economic meltdown due to shortages of foreign exchange caused by “contagion” and the money flowing out of emerging markets. Latin America is still suffering the effects of the debt crisis. Brazil, the largest country with the largest economy in the region, still faces large debts. As investors flee, foreign exchange reserves necessary to back up the currency become dangerously low (leading to last week’s discussions about an IMF bailout). If Brazil is forced to devalue the “real,” it could cause an escalating effect throughout Latin America’s economies. This current crisis is part of longer-term problems faced throughout Latin America and the developing world: How to stimulate economic growth and maintain democratic politics. The neoliberal economic model that has been widely embraced throughout the region has led to higher growth rates, but questions remain about the ability of Latin American governments to consolidate recent transformations to democracy.

Increases in income disparities and overall indicators of poverty have characterized the “lost decade” of the 1980s and continue into the 1990s. The populist politics of the 1960s and the military politics that followed could easily return under these conditions.

D: What opportunities currently exist at Davidson for students interested in Latin American politics?

S: Davidson has an extremely active Spanish Department that does a good job introducing students to Latin America, and there are a number of opportunities to study in Latin America offered through the Study Abroad office.

As far as courses, next semester I will be teaching two classes on Latin America: a seminar on Religion and Politics in Latin America and a 200-level course on U.S.-Latin American relations. Judging from the number of students I had to turn away from my Latin American Politics course this semester, there is clearly a large interest in the region.

D: How has Davidson measured up to your expectations so far?

S: As a graduate of a small liberal arts school and having taught at Colby College for a year, I had some idea what to expect of Davidson. I expected good students, and I have not been disappointed. The faculty and staff have been friendly and welcoming. Best of all, I get to work on my golf game for free on the school course.

D: What are your plans after this year?

S: I am currently on the job market seeking a tenure track position. The nature of the market is that you move where the job is. We have moved three times in the past four years, and with an addition to the family expected in December, we are ready to settle down in one location for a while.

Off-Campus

Study Abroad
Visiting Students
Summer Session

For Study Abroad:

e-mail: studyaway@columbia.edu

For other programs:

(212) 854-2820
e-mail: sp-info@columbia.edu

If you need more reasons to be in New York, Columbia University can provide them!

You just missed our best summer ever—but it’s not too early to plan for 1999! Bulletin available February '99

Continuing Education & Special Programs

Study Abroad

Berlin Consortium
Columbia University in Paris
Center for German Studies
Summer Program in Italy (Scandiano)
Summer Program in Beijing

Visiting Students

Summer Session ‘99

Reserve yours today.