“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

Place your bets.
NEWS 5
DC ‘01 lets students join the fray.

Love across the miles.
Tips to surviving the distance.
OPINIONS 7

Dave rocks Raleigh.
Wes is quasi-enthralled.
A&L 10

Wiffleball heats up.
New team is promising.
SPORTS 12

Changes to cafe enrage returning students
Quest for cost efficiency bares shelves
By ASHLEY E. KING
Staff Writer

Walking into the Union Cafe, returning students cannot help but notice that there have been some drastic changes. Confronted with
empty linoleum floors where rows of crackers, candy, and personal items once were, many of the upperclassmen have found themselves
asking the question, “Where has the Union gone?”

Lydia Wilson said about the recent changes, “It’s depressing: I walk in, and I feel like it’s about to close.
There’s just nothing there.”

After getting over the initial shock of finding a virtually barren space, the next question to come to mind was
“Why?” Almost every student interviewed on the matter was intent upon finding the answer to this question. Why had so
many items been taken off the shelves?

Dee Philips, the Union Cafe’s production manager, and Barbara Metzler, manager of the Union Cafe and other food services such
as Vail Commons, were more than happy to provide some answers to these frequently asked questions. They insist that much
of the Union Cafe is still there, and that the changes were made to improve the Union for the students,
not to take something away from them.

“In the long run, what we're trying to do is upgrade the Union Cafe,” said Metzler. To this comment, Philips
added, “Before, people were complaining about the clutter. Much of what we have done has been to reduce the amount
of clutter.”

They both agreed that a significant part of the empty space in the Cafe is due to the fact that
stock for the refrigerators used to be kept out on the floor of the store. Now, this stock is no
longer kept there, leaving more room in the once-crowded Cafe.

Both Philips and Metzler went on to cite some examples of what they meant by “getting rid of clutter.” In
many cases, they were simply ridding the Union Cafe of options that they felt were unnecessary. Instead of offering three
different brands of bottled water, they consolidated the choices to the most popular brand, still allowing students the option of
having bottled water.

Another reason they feel much of the space has been opened is because they did away with most of the
soda, both the 16-ounce bottles and the canned variety, leaving only specialty drinks and reducing the number of refrigerators. The
managers of the Union Cafe, however, felt that these items were excessive because in addition to the many varieties of
soda, there was also a machine that supplied fountain drinks. Philips pointed out, “If you walk into a cafe downtown,
you would see specialty drinks and fountain drinks. We looked at these as models for improving the Union Cafe.”

Although there have been many cases where a certain item that was once available in several different varieties has been
incorporated into one brand name, there are also some alternatives that have been completely eradicated from the Cafe’s shelves. When
asked what they missed as a result of this year’s changes to the Union, students listed a number of items,
including anything from ramen noodle soup to paper towels to frappuccinos.

In response to questions about these products which can no longer be found in any form in the Cafe, Metzler
and Philips said that they were unable to get some of these products, while others simply weren’t bringing in enough
revenue for the Union to continue to carry them. For instance, the microwaveable entrees such as canned lasagna that the
Cafe used to carry have been discontinued by the manufacturer, and the cost in going to a new manufacturer is
simply too high.

“Sometimes there were only five people who liked a particular thing,” said Metzler. “For example, I had one girl ask
me why we got rid of Mallow Cups. The thing was that she was the only one I knew who
actually bought Mallow Cups. We took a list of things that were being purchased and kept those. Others were just
taking up space and not creating revenue.”

Despite what many students perceive to be a reduction in the quality of the Union Cafe, Metzler and Philips both
emphasizedtheir plans to improve the services that it offers, and they also said that some merchandise not found in the
Cafe right now will be reinstated. This includes microwaveable popcorn, Triscuits, cold medicine, and any items that they find enough
students ask to have back. Speaking excitedly about their plans for improvement, Metzler said, “We have purchased a smoothie machine
and will put that out soon and will also be putting in a deli case for salads. We have ordered
booths as well, and this will take the seating to 86 people.” Besides these improvements, Metzler and Philips mentioned plans
to test what is called a fryless fryer, which would mean that any fried foods would be free of grease,
and they are also trying to expand the options at the grill. Already, they have made popular additions to the
sandwich bar such as alfalfa sprouts, as well as increasingly popular additions in other parts of the store, such as
fresh-brewed coffee and a better cappuccino machine. Another promising improvement that will soon be implemented in the Cafe is keeping
the grill open as long as the Cafe is open instead of shutting the grill down at 10 p.m., when,
for the average college student, the night is just beginning.

The majority of the student response to the changes in the Union was not too understanding of the points of
view presented by Metzler and Philips. Many are still angered at what they feel was the loss of a great
Union Cafe. “I realize that they were trying to cut costs and offer better service, but I still wish that
they had the same selection,” said Carrie Arthur. Matt Strader, a senior who has become accustomed to the Cafe as
it once was, said, “I’m an economics major, and I thought to myself, ‘Well, now they have a monopoly.’ The
Commons owns everything in this area. They have no one to compete with, and so, the selection is gone.” Some
students, in their desire to change the Cafe back to the way it was, have been circulating a petition in
protest of the recent differences in the Cafe’s selection.

Hoping to allay some of the students’ concerns, Philips encouraged students to take a look around the Union Cafe and
see that some of the products that they thought were missing have simply been placed in a different area. She
and Metzler are also very open to any complaints that students might have about the Union Cafe. Philips said, “I
was not doing this as a form of punishment or as an exercise of power over the students. We were
thinking of you guys when we made these changes, and we are always receptive to your comments. If you don’t
tell me what I’m doing wrong, then I’ll think I’m doing everything alright. If you don’t tell me, I’m never
going to know.” Hopefully, with students cooperating with the managerial staff of the Union Cafe, Davidson can work toward once
again having a Union Cafe that satisfies most of its student population.

Randy Skattum

The scaling down of the Union Cafe in order to turn it into a profitable establishment

Your thoughts on the new College Union

First e-mail survey a success

By Jesse SMALLWOOD
Guest Writer

The Polling and Response Committee of the Student Government Association, in conjunction with the New Union Planning Committee, conducted a
campus-wide survey on the students’ priorities and expectations for the new Student Union at the end of last year. The
poll found several trends in student opinion and helped the Planning Committee to determine student preferences on several key issues.
The Planning Committee is currently in the process of laying out and designing the new Union. The survey, which was
conducted via e-mail (a first at Davidson), was sent to every four-year student and included 10 questions. Of the 321
completed surveys returned, an overwhelming amount came from the freshman (38.9 percent).

See Survey Results on page 3

EDITORIAL 6
SPORTS 12

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
