_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Film Festival hits 900 Room
By Mike GILLESPIE
News Layout Editor

Davidson’s African American Film Festival continues with six movies playing between now and Friday in the 900 Room of the
Union.

Tuesday night “Secrets and Lies” will be playing at eight o’clock. Wednesday night there are going to be two films
shown. “The Color Purple” will be shown at six o’clock and immediately following the movie Dr. Zoran Kuzmanovich will discuss
it. The film is based upon the Pulitzer Prize-winning book by Alice Walker and directed by Steven Spielberg. It relates
the story of Celie (Whoopi Goldberg) and her husband Albert (Danny Glover), a sharecropper. Spanning the years from 1909 to
1949, this film tells the story of one woman’s journey towards a life of her own. This movie was nominated
for 11 Oscars but received none.

Later Wednesday night at nine-thirty, “Daughters of the Dust” will be playing, and will be followed by a presentation by
Professor Brenda Flanagan. The movie looks at the life of the inhabitants of Gullah Island in 1902. Gullah Island is
located off the coast of Georgia and South Carolina. In a community of poverty, one family tries to decide whether
to depart the island for life on the mainland, leaving behind the dialects preserved from African ancestors and the tribal
practices passed down since they were brought over.

On Thursday night at eight o’clock, “Shaft” will be shown. Produced in 1971, “Shaft” is a detective story of high
style. It tells the story of Shaft, a detective who is hired to find the daughter of the gangster Bumpy.
Events escalate with the possibility of racial warfare, and Shaft is helped out by a police lieutenant and a black
militant who both seek to avoid the potential race war. Shaft is every man’s hero.

On Friday night, the movie “Friday” will be playing at eight o’clock. This is the contemporary story of Craig and
his friend Smokey who have gotten in over their heads in a series of situations. Craig has lost his job,
and Smokey has made the mistake of using all the dope that he was supposed to be selling. The movie
escalates as both Craig and Smokey learn things about their personality, and seek to find a way out of the
situation. Craig learns a valuable lesson about life, and Smokey entertains the audience.

Later Friday, at ten o’clock, “Love Jones” will be playing. It is an old-fashioned love story based around an affluent,
middle-class couple who meet and become involved. After a date, the two are exhilarated but deny their feelings. Some smart
friends save the relationship by keeping them together and allowing the romance to blossom. This film is a must-see as
an educational video for all my friends.

Students and community members flocked to the 900 Room Saturday night to swill beer at the International Beer Tasting.

Sallie McMurray
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

Body Beautiful
Baby, Work That Body.
By MITCH SHORES
Student Health Advisor

Hope everybody has a nice restful weekend because we are back in action again. We still have not heard anything
from you all out there, and we really hope to address your needs. We hear a lot of things about
the column, but what we really want are questions from you all. So please, think of what you would like
to ask and ask it. Your questions will be totally anonymous, unless you want to disclose it to everybody.

This week we have decided to address something totally new: working out!! You know, Mitch’s RECOMMENDED EXERCISE SCHEDULE

Mondays: chest, triceps, and absNot sure where to start. (See “Mitch’s Recommended Exercise Schedule.”) You should also do at least
15 minutes of cardiovascular workout four times a week. This will help you to burn some fat if you have
a little extra to spare. Cardiovascular workouts can be running, using the Stairmaster, cycling, swimming, or anything that gets the
old heart a-tickin’. Now, if you are looking to add muscle mass, you should consider heavy weights with low repetitions.
That is about 8-10 reps, times three. And if you are looking to tone those mounds of muscles you have
now, then you should do low weights and high repetitions. That is about 10-13 reps, times three. In addition, make
sure you stretch your legs and abs before you exercise to ensure a safe workout. We don’t want you breaking
any bones or pulling muscles. After all, there is no more nighttime nurse at the health center, so be careful
— safety first.

Ever since I heard that song by Salt n’ Pepa, “Body Beautiful,” I have been destined to shape up this
little stick figure of mine.

WEDNESDAY
- Shoulders, biceps, and abs

THURSDAY
- Legs and abs

FRIDAY
- Back, chest, and abs

You should listen to it sometime and find the inspiration.

Springtime will be here soon, and this slightly abnormal winter that we are having is the perfect time for you
all to start your new workout program. You can do it for an array of reasons, but the most important
reason would be to stay healthy. I told my sister that I wanted to get buff, and she criticized me
because I should do it for my health. However, if you are doing it, no matter what the reason, that
is the important part. Working out can make you feel so much better. Although you may think that you will
only get more tired from working out, soon after starting your new program, you will find that you have much
more energy. As well, exercise helps to fight depression and can keep you slim and trim. Now, let’s not go
psycho, though, and work out 24/7, because that could lead to problems too.

I would like to share a workout program for some of you who are thinking about starting, but first!!! You
should always remember to start off slow and make sure not to overdo it. You will be sorry the next
day when you can’t even roll over in bed, much less get out of it. We should all consider starting
our new workout regimes so that we will be one big healthy campus. Let’s also remember to watch our diets
while we exercise, too. Continue to eat foods low in fat in order to be as fit as possible.

If you should have any questions regarding how to start working out, or any other concerns, moans, groans, or complaints,
send them to:

The Student Body
c/o Mitch Shores
PO Box 4180
Davidson, NC 28036

Have fun now!!!

DAVIDSON COLLEGE MERIT-BASED SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE

Students who wish to apply for Davidson College merit-based scholarships should pick up application materials at the Financial Aid Office,
413 N. Main Street. The Financial Aid Office is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and
1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. The application deadline is April 15, 1998.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE NEED-BASED FINANCIAL AID APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE

Students who did not receive need-based financial aid in 1997-98 but plan to apply for 1998-99 should pick up application
materials at the Financial Aid Office by February 20, 1998. The deadline is April 15, 1998 for submitting completed applications.
The Financial Aid Office is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. to 4:30
p.m.
