THE DAVIDSONIAN

field research methods, and Spanish language and culture.
Credits may be transferred from Duke University.

- hands-on experiential learning
- independent field projects
- cultural immersion
- extended stays at remote field sites
- home stays
- extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact:

Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
919 684-5774
e-Mail: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>

Apply now for the 1999 Spring semester.

A consortium of universities associated with leadership
in education, research, and the wise use of
natural resources in the tropics.

Study

Health advisors educate students

BY LAURA McCANDLISH

Staff Writer

Health Educator Georgia Ringle stands as the main
source behind health awareness at Davidson, but as one
person, she can’t do it all. In order to make health care
services and advice more available to students, Ringle has
Student Health Advisors; the five this year include sopho-
mores Kim Biemuller, Ed Diggins, Jenny Hapgood, junior Anne
Stancil, and senior Brett Simpson.

The Health Advisors came to school during
orientation to participate in training, and they receive a small stipend
each semester for their work.

Diggins said, “Our job is to help Georgia
Ringle in getting the word out to students about how important student
health is.” Students are often uncomfortable talking to adults about per-
sonal health problems, and so the Health Advisors “add a student face to student health,”
Diggins said.

This fall the Health Advisors' main responsibility has
been to put on alcohol and sexual awareness programs for
the freshmen halls. The programs cover the risks and health
implications associated with drinking, drug use, and “hook-
ing up.” Diggins said that the programs stress both physical
and mental health.

Hapgood hoped the programs educated the freshmen
about “safety and knowing their limits with alcohol, so that
they could go to First Night Down confident and respon-
sible.” She also mentioned that contraceptives handed out
at these hall programs became a point of controversy, yet
she felt it was important for the students to hear the message
to be prepared for any situation. “We want students to
have a good time while staying aware of their surround-
ings,” Hapgood explained. She also stressed that while the
hall programs are given from the perspective that some of
the freshmen will be drinking, “in no way are the programs
meant to advocate the use of alcohol.”

In addition to the hall pro-
gramming, the Health Advisors have
a radio show on WALT 1610AM,
The H Spot, which airs at 9 on Sunday
nights. The show has a call-in, ques-
tion and answer format, covering top-
ics like drinking, sex, stress, and room-
mate problems.

In addition to the radio show,
the Health Advisors have a weekly
column in The Davidsonian. They
are also planning to hold depression
awareness days in October and flu-shot days later this fall.

Biemuller encourages students to use the Health Ad-
visors as resources, available for confidential contact 24
hours a day. “That’s what we’re here for,” she said, “It’s
sad when you hear people saying that they had no one to talk
to. They just have to take the initiative to seek us out.”

Ringle said the group is “excellent at their jobs. They
have a nice blend of humor, seriousness, and health ability
that is necessary for health education. It’s wonderful for me
to have their support,” she said, “Having Health Advisors
is one of the best ideas I’ve ever had.”

Journey to Nicaragua
Spring Break
Information Session and Application Distribution
Tuesday, October 6, 1998
10:00pm
Home Room of the Student Union

Questions?

Rev. Andy Baxter
Davidson United Methodist Church
892-8277

Rev. Rob Spach
Davidson College Chaplain
892-2420
rospach@davidson.edu

Olé Olé at the
Lake

Is Now Hiring Servers
For Evenings

Apply in Person at Exit 28 in
Cornelius

Knowledge of Spanish is a Plus,
But Not Required

The Village Store is celebrating
the end of the season with a storewide
clearance sale, offering a large number
of items at 10-50% off.

SAY "HELLO" TO
THE VILLAGE STORE!
Welcome back, Davidson!

Bring in this coupon for $5 OFF
any one item.
One coupon per customer, please. Expires 10/15/98.

The Village Store
110 - VILLAGE 704/892-4440
In THE Heart OF Historic Downtown DAVIDSON
FINE GIFTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR 32 YEARS
