By Carrie Arthur, Staff Writer

Although Project Life has begun its annual fund-raising programs for bone marrow donors, this year Project Life needs to find
more ways to raise money. The Red Cross, which in years past matched Project Life’s raised funds, can no longer
give the organization money. Ginger Bond, chair of Project Life, explained that the National Red Cross simply does not have
the money. In the past, Project Life would raise $15,000 to cover the cost of testing approximately 400 students, faculty,
staff, and community members, and then the Red Cross would give the other needed $15,000. In addition to the lack
of funds, the price for typing one person has increased from $60 to $75 this year. Due to these changes,
Bond said, “fundraising is a big issue for us this year.”

To meet the new needs, Bond plans to apply for several “little” funds this year and for an endowment and/or
grant for the future. Project Life is also calling upon the community as well as the College for help. Bond
said, “Churches are a big asset for us.” She is also looking into the Sunshine Lady Foundation and the community
service office’s grants. The organization has also met with the administration. President Bobby Vagt has given Project Life permission to
solicit money from alumni and other sources that are usually unavailable to students. Also, a private donor has promised Project
Life money. Bond is hoping to receive an endowment for the future so they will not have to “scramble” for
money every year. Despite the difficulties, Bond believes, “We’re going to make it. We're going to get the money.”

These new ways of fund-raising are additions to the organization’s established methods. The spaghetti dinner before First Night Down and
t-shirt sales are annual projects. Unfortunately, despite the dinner’s success, fewer freshmen halls came than last year. The members have
just finished selling all of the t-shirts from this past year, and there is a contest to design the new
shirt, which will probably be on sale in a few weeks. Members are also planning their annual letter-writing campaign and
either a basketball tournament or something similar to it. Bond said that the letter-writing campaign has “always been our number
one fund-raiser.” For the campaign, the members write letters to their own relatives, alumni who were involved in Project Life,
and alumni who have given to Project Life in the past.

Because of the lack of sufficient funds, Project Life’s big goal has been pushed aside temporarily. The organization had wanted
to increase the entire community’s involvement and to type more minorities because there is a significant need for minority donors.
Bond said, “The minority project is big. We're really trying to recruit a lot of freshmen and get them involved
in Project Life so that there will be a big committee (to work on recruiting minority donors).” She expects that
the committee next year will have more money and be able to work toward the goal. In the past, about
400 people have been typed each year, and approximately 80 percent of the student body belongs to the national donor
registry. According to Bond, “an unusually high” number of registered Davidson students become donors. She said that Davidson is known
for its high number of registered students, faculty, and staff. Bond hopes that Project Life will not have to limit
the number of people typed this year, but if they do not find more money, a limit will be necessary.
She said that blood samples will be taken on a first-come, first-serve basis for a flat number of people. Bond
added, “If there is a fall in numbers (because of a limit), this year will be the only year.”

Bond described Davidson’s Project Life as the “first of its kind.” It began nine years ago in 1989, after Davidson
student David Lindsay learned firsthand about the need for donors from his own struggle with leukemia. Members of Project Life
have presented workshops on how to start such an organization at other campuses, and Meredith Benke ‘98 put together a
manual for interested schools. She said that many students from other schools have said they were planning to follow Project
Life’s example and that she knows UNC-Chapel Hill used Project Life.As a “model” for their program, Project Life’s next function
is an ice cream social to educate the community about bone marrow donations. Students, faculty, and alumni will speak about
their personal experiences as donors or recipients of transplants. The social will be on Oct. 21. Project Life’s bone marrow
drive will be on Nov. 24 and 25.

Study Abroad Fair broadens students’ horizons
By Laura McCandlish Bond, Staff Writer

In order to make Davidson students more aware of their many opportunities for international study, the second annual Study Abroad
Fair was held on Sept. 21 in Chambers Gallery. The fair was planned to occur on Chambers Lawn, which would
have increased its attendance, but it had to be moved inside due to heavy rains.

Carolyn Ortmayer, Coordinator of Study Abroad, said that the fair “gives students the opportunity to talk to representatives of Davidson
Study Abroad programs, as well as many non-Davidson representatives.” The fair included presenters from 10 Davidson programs and 20 non-Davidson
programs. “The representatives pretty much covered the globe,” Ortmayer said. “There was information on programs all around the world.”

Several students participated in the fair as exhibitors for programs they had completed. After going abroad with the program last
year, senior Cintra Pollack worked at the fair as a representative for the CET Program for study in China. Senior
Nathan Hagerman, who studied in Denmark last year, helped at the Denmark International Studies (DIS) Program’s table. Senior Jennifer Marinburg,
a work-study student in the Study Abroad office and former program participant, manned the table for the Davidson in Tours,
France program.

Ortmayer said, “Feedback about the fair from the exhibitors and the students has been positive.” Confirming Ortmayer’s impression, freshman Elizabeth
Marie Melchionna, who attended the fair, said, “I thought it was helpful to have so much information available in one
place. I know I’m interested in studying abroad, but I’m not sure with which program. The fair enabled me to
see what was out there.”

Ortmayer hopes the fair will continue in the future, but she acknowledged the amount of work it requires for her
office to hold such an event. She and Judith Klotz, the Study Abroad Assistant Coordinator, are the only two staff
members who work in the Study Abroad Office. About 50 percent of Davidson students participate in course-approved, study abroad programs
for a year, a semester, or a summer before they graduate. Many others go abroad for travel, work, service, or
independent research projects.

http://www.ce.columbia.edu
Study Abroad Visiting Students Summer Session
For Study Abroad: (212) 854-2559
e-mail: For other programs: (212) 854-2820
e-mail: sp-info@columbia.edu
- Columbia University in Paris
- for German Studies
- Summer Program in Italy (Scandiano)
- Summer Program in Beijing

If you need more reasons to be in New York, Columbia University can provide them! You just missed our best
summer ever—but it's not too early to plan for 1999! Bulletin available February.

Continuing Education & Special Programs
Study Abroad

Berlin Consortium
Visiting Students

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
Presentation for Tropical Studies

Duke University offers field-oriented, science-based undergraduate semester abroad and summer programs in Costa Rica. Students earn credit hours in tropical
ecology, environmental science and policy, field research methods, and Spanish language and culture. Credits may be transferred from Duke University.
- hands-on experiential learning
- independent field projects
- cultural immersion
- extended stays at remote field sites
- home stays
- extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact:
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
919 684-5774
e-mail: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>
http://www.ots.duke.edu

Application deadline for 1999 Spring semester is October 9, 1998.

A consortium of universities providing leadership in education, research, and the responsible use of natural resources in the tropics.

Journey to Nicaragua
Study in Spring Break
Information Session and Application Distribution
Tuesday, October 6, 1998
10:00 pm
Home Room of the Student Union

Questions?
Rev. Andy Baxter
Davidson United Methodist Church
892-8277
andy.baxter@juno.com

Rev. Rob Spach
Davidson College Chaplain
892-2420
rospach@davidson.edu

Olé Olé at the Lake Is Now Hiring Servers For Evenings
Apply in Person at Exit 28 in Cornelius
Knowledge of Spanish is a Plus, But Not Required

Summer Session ‘99 reserve yours today.

WE KNOW YOU’RE OUT THERE.
DON’T MAKE US FIND YOU.
Write for News.
For more information, call Liz Neiheisel.
