Davidson vs. the big game arrives: Davidson vs. Duke. This game presents our student body with some great difficulties. Not only are we favored to get demolished by a couple of touchdowns, but our fallback smugness of intellectual superiority does not apply, either (“That’s all right, that’s OK, we’re gonna be business partners someday!” just doesn’t have that same bite). Much has been written about the Dookies’ alleged superiority on the basketball court. However, no one has bothered to dissect the key differences between the two schools. Therefore, after much research and preparation, I present an itemized scorecard analyzing the key match-ups between the two schools.

CRAZINESS: Duke has the Cameron Crazies, who strike fear in the heart of opposing players. Davidson has Crazy Joe, who strikes fear in the hearts of everyone. CRAZINESS EDGE: Davidson.

PUBLIC PERCEPTION: The rest of North Carolina views us as a bunch of spoiled rich kids who spend the majority of our time justifying our attending a non-Ivy league school. The rest of North Carolina thinks Duke is a spoiled bunch of Yankees (said with appropriate scorn) who spend the majority of their time justifying their attending a non-Ivy league school. IMAGE EDGE: Davidson.

PRESIDENTS: Davidson claims Woodrow Wilson as our own even though everyone else thinks he went to Princeton (which, coincidentally, is the name on his diploma). Richard Nixon is Duke Law School’s most notable alum. OVAL OFFICE EDGE: Duke.

CELLULITE: Duke has the World Famous Duke Weight-Loss Center where prominent porkers from all over the world go to watch the pounds disappear. Conversely, Davidson has the freshman 15, where due to Vail Commons’ exclusive deep-frying process, young men and women watch their dreams of social acceptance disappear. CELLULITE EDGE: Duke.

MASCOT: Davidson has the ubiquitous Wildcat: a name shared with over 20 different colleges and universities. Conversely, Duke has the more original Blue Devil. However, what the heck is a Blue Devil? My grandfather always talked about the carpetbaggers, scallywags, and other blue devils that came in and took away the family farm. Seeing as Duke is known as the University of New Jersey at Durham, one must wonder. I’m putting my Virginia heritage over originality this time. MASCOT EDGE: Davidson.

NAMESAKE: Duke’s most famous namesake is David, Klansman turned political hopeful. During the ‘94 election when David was running for governor of Louisiana, I would often see Duke bumper stickers and wonder if the person was ignorant (as in a supporter of David) or just ignorant (as in a graduate of the University of New Jersey at Durham). Davidson has Jaye, transsexual star of “The Crying Game” and “Stargate.” Both individuals rather frighten me, but at least Jaye isn’t seeking public office. NAMESAKE EDGE: Davidson.

ATHLETIC HISTORY: I know we had some solid basketball seasons in the early ‘70s, but this one isn’t even close. ATHLETIC HISTORY EDGE: Duke.

SAY WHAT??? Duke has Coach Mike Krzyzewski, he of the most unpronounceable name in all of college basketball. Davidson has Mark “The Mad Hungarian” Czikszentmihalyi. Gonna have to go with my Polish heritage and Coach K this time. UNPRONOUNCEABILITY EDGE: Duke.

GOOD TASTE: Duke flatly denied my attempts for admission. Davidson, however, gave me a firm maybe which metamorphosed into a yes by mid-August. Not that I’m bitter, but Davidson clearly was on the ball this time.

FINAL TALLY: Davidson 5-4

PREDICTION: The pieces all fall into place as the young and eager Wildcats stun the #1 ranked Duke.

Student Opinion

Why don’t you cry about it? I, too, am a disgruntled individual much like Jake Fischer. My frustration stems from people who complain about trivial issues that they have complete control over. Jake is frustrated because of his $50 parking ticket. In my opinion, anyone who is too lazy to find a legal parking spot and decides to hop a curb and park on the grass deserves a $50 parking ticket. Jake commented that he did what every other four-wheel drive vehicle owner would do. Yeah, Jake, I’ve really noticed a lot of cars on campus that are not registered. If you don’t want a $50 ticket, don’t be lazy. Drive a few minutes out of your way and find a legal spot; that way you won’t be crying about it the next day. I’m also glad you’ve noticed a number of cars on campus that are not registered. You asked,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

“Are the campus police ever going to ticket them?” Probably now that you’ve brought the campus’s attention to this matter. Do you want other fellow schoolmates out because of your frustration which exists because of your own laziness? We’re all on the same jump on the bandwagon for your action. That’s poor. Don’t. If your buddy jumps off a bridge and survives, are you going to give it a try, too? Come on, don’t be a follower. Accept the truth of the matter and take responsibility. You parked illegally and got caught. Actions always have consequences and we should evaluate those consequences before making decisions we may regret. If it bothers you so much, transfer to Virginia Tech and finish your final semester there, or move off campus so you can park illegally all you want and only get charged $10 per curb hop. You could have had five illegal parks on the town green for the price of one grass parking job here on campus. Now that’s what I call a bang for your buck. Bottom line: You are complaining about a fine that came about because of your own laziness. Resolution: Transfer to Virginia Tech or move off campus, but don’t complain about consequences that you could have prevented with a little effort.

JERRY! JERRY! JERRY! What’s the best show on television? I’m sure y’all have asked yourselves this question over and over again. Well, after years of research, I have an answer: The best show on TV is not “ER,” or “NYPD Blue,” or even “The Simpsons.” The best show on TV is none other than “JERRY SPRINGER”! Notice I said “best” and not most award-winning, or educational. I’m talking about Prime Time television entertainment, and that, my fellow Wildcats, is Jerry. How could I say this, you might ask? Easy, when one watches the “Jerry Springer Show” one sees what makes foreigners scared of Americans. In my humble opinion, I think that if we sent copies of the “Jerry Springer Show” to, say, Iraq and China, both of these evil nations would surrender to us. Now let me tell you why this would happen. First off, we’d label all of “Jerry’s Too Hot For TV” tapes as American NAVY SEAL training videos and send those puppies over, “losing” them in between UNICEF food supplies. Then, as Saddam popped “Too Hot For TV XVI” and saw a 347 LB redneck woman pick up some drag queen and throw her out into the crowd, Saddam would think, “Aw, crap! If American women can do that, I’d hate to see what they would do to me!” But that’s not all; the CIA should make sure to send a tape of Jerry’s show in which the women use their shoes as weapons of deadly force. I tell you what, once you see a high-heel flying towards some dude’s head, you’ll understand why women own so many shoes — it’s like gun-racks for men only a little more concealed. But the most important aspect of the “Jerry Springer Show” is very simple. I’m sure everyone is having some SERIOUS woes about going home to see their families for Thanksgiving. If this is true of anybody, I highly suggest watching Jerry’s show. After watching “Hot Lesbian Love Triangles” or “Bitch, You Took My Man: IT’S PAYBACK TIME,” you’ll think, “Hey, my family isn’t so bad.” “Hell, we could be going onto Jerry’s show, we are damn near perfect!” Well, I want to leave y’all with one more happy thought: the next time you see a fight break out start chanting, “JERRY! JERRY! JERRY!” It'll make the experience much more enjoyable. Well, I need to go, I’ve gotta go kill the playboy that stole my ex-girlfriend from me... OH MY GOSH — He’s a SHE!!!

---