BY BRATTON HOLMES
THE DAVIDSONIAN Sports Editor

With the conclusion of the winter season, many Davidson student-athletes will bid farewell to the locker rooms. Some will return
next season, and some will not. This year the wrestling squad loses six grapplers who were on the roster during
their senior year. This is a tribute to those athletes who have competed in what is arguably the most intense
of all collegiate sports. These seniors wrestled in the tough Southern Conference, which is filled with schools whose academic standards
are minuscule in comparison to Davidson’s. These athletes successfully divided their time between class and athletics. In their final season
as Davidson athletes, the seniors led the team to the best record it had posted this decade.

George Escaravage and Wall served as co-captains for the 1997-98 season. Both have been on the roster in all four
seasons that they have attended Davidson. Wall missed the fall of his junior year when he studied in Spain, but
lost none of his talent during that semester. He returned in the spring to post an 11-5 record, including three
pins, and also became the first Davidson wrestler at any weight class to advance to the finals of the Southern
Conference in 28 years. Wall wrestled his matches in the 190 weight class and also in the heavyweight class. Wall
finished his career with a record of 52-13. He also won 24 of his matches by pin.

Escaravage provided team leadership throughout his career at Davidson. His junior season was cut short when Escaravage broke his hand
and was unable to wrestle. Despite the injury, he was named co-captain for his senior season. Unfortunately, Escaravage remained sidelined
for all of his senior season as well. He did not wrestle but still carried out his role as a
co-captain.

Bill Cameron spent his career at Davidson primarily as a backup wrestler, filling in whatever weight classes were open in
a particular match. Cameron wrestled matches at 177, 190, and also at heavyweight. Cameron has the notoriety of being the
only wrestler on the squad to have won all of his career victories by pin. Cameron has six wins in
his career, all by pin. Three of his pins came during his senior season, one of them against an opponent
who outweighed him by sixty pounds.

Gray Broughton joined the squad in his junior year and gave the team another wrestler at 190. During his two
seasons with the team, Broughton accumulated eight wins, two of them by pin.

Seth Herman was on the team roster from his freshman year through the fall of his senior year, when he
was forced to leave the team due to a job he took as a student teacher for this spring. Herman
wrestled primarily at 167, and garnered 11 wins over the course of his three and a half seasons, one of
which was by pin. His 65 escapes in his sophomore season is the third highest single-season total in Davidson history.

Andy Sterling spent most of his time in the 142 lb. class for the Wildcats. Sterling was one of the
most successful members of the class of ‘98. Wrestling at 142 and 150, Sterling had an immediate impact by winning
20matches in his rookie season. His total of 21 near falls that year places him fifth on the all-time single-season
total list. He finished this year with a career record of 56-37, including two pins.

Andy Sterling
TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1998

Sam Roberts and Ben Wall filled the heavyweight spot and helped captain the wrestling squad during his senior season.

DEAN RUSK EVENTS FOR APRIL

April 1 - 7:30 in Love Auditorium. Nobel Laureate and Former President of Costa Rica, Oscar Arias.
April 2 - 7:00 in the 900 Room. Talk on the Future of NATO.
April 6 - 8:30 in Home Room. Kahlo.
April 8 - 7:30 in Carolina Inn. Serbia with Dr. Ortmayer, Jack Perry, Dr. Kuzmonovich. Moderated by Ken Brown.
April 16 - 7:30 in Morrison Room. Dr. Baer, Economist. Comparison between the Latin America Debt Crisis and the Asian
Financial Crisis. Señora Peña talks on Frida. Discussion over Kosovo.

Men’s tennis still strong in conference play
BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

The tennis team decided to be nice to Appalachian State. After all, how can you not feel sorry for a
squad so weak that it cannot even find six players to fill the singles spots? How was Davidson nice to
the Mountaineers? Jon Pastel sat out. This was probably the only reason that the Wildcats didn’t blank the opposition. Moving
up to the #1 spot, Brett Ialacci lost his match in the final set. Jeff Tonidandel, moved up from his
normal place at #3, also lost his match. After a small scare, Davidson rebounded nicely by taking the next three
matches in straight sets. At the #6 spot, Eric Bourn won by forfeit. Yes, forfeit. In a tennis match.

The doubles matches were much of the same for Davidson. Ted Kaplan and Judson Sutherland easily won the #1 doubles
match 8-3. Tonidandel and Tyler Epp won their match 8-2. At the #3 doubles spot, the freshman duo of Billy
Boykin and Whit Hansen won by yet another forfeit. The Mountaineers upset Davidson by scoring two points in the match
but gave up five, four of them in matches that were actually played. What can you say about this Mountaineer
team? At least they’re not as bad as VMI.

Pastel did not stay on the sideline for too long. He returned to action for the team’s match against UNC-Greensboro
and won his match with a convincing score of 6-1, 6-0. Once again in the #2 spot, Brett Ialacci rebounded
from a first set loss to win the second and third sets 6-3, 6-3. Whit Hansen won a barn-burner at
the #5 spot. After losing the first set 5-7, Hansen won the second 6-3. In the third, Hansen won by
a narrow score of 7-5 to give Davidson its third victory.

Davidson’s wins at #1, #2, and #5 were matched by UNCG wins at #3, #4, and #6. The match was
tied at three points apiece going into the doubles matches. Sutherland and Kaplan gave Davidson a good start by winning
the first match 8-5. Pastel and Alex Okulski clinched a win for Davidson with an easy 8-3 victory at #2.
In the third match, Tonidandel and Epp polished up the sweep of the doubles matches. The two wins brought the
team to 12-7 overall and 4-1 in Southern Conference play.
