@ Patterson Court Advisor and Resident Life Coordinator Jim Barber announced that 60 females signed up for the fourth eating
house and are currently drafting a constitution and raising money to cover their expenses. @ The PCC plans to publish
a newsletter to improve Court-campus relations and promote the “positive commitment of Patterson Court to the campus,” according to Claire
Cisco. The newsletter will also “show the campus what Patterson Court does,” said Cisco. It will be compiled by having
one member of each eating house and fraternity report on the positive things each house is doing. Eventually, the newsletter
is expected to be published biweekly, although it may be printed less often at first. @ Tina Kanter, President of
the Rape Awareness Committee, spoke on the possibility of holding rape awareness programs for the Patterson Court houses. @ Phi
Delta Theta is organizing teams for Golfing for Gehrig, a two-year-old program to raise money for research into Lou Gehrig’s
Disease. @ Dean of Students Tom Shandley has approved sanctions against Sigma Alpha Epsilon regarding an incident at Wofford College:
the house is on social probation until Apr. 15; pledge activities are suspended unless they are service- or education-oriented; and
the house must participate in an educational program. These sanctions are in addition to the sanctions SAE has imposed upon
itself. The house plans to pay for damage, write letters of apology, and hold a workshop on peer pressure, according
to Barber. @ Patterson Court’s Spring Frolics, Apr. 17 and 18, coincides with Decision Davidson this year, and the Admissions
Office has expressed concern about prospective students becoming intoxicated. Phi Delt representative Dan Cowan suggested that Patterson Court combat this
concern by giving a “pep talk” to Risk Managers and bartenders, reminding them that non-Davidson students must have two forms
of ID to get a wristband. “We want the prospectives to have fun, but we don’t want them going to
the hospital,” said PCC President Conner Eldridge. Barber also pointed out “what a great weekend” Decision Davidson is to show
prospectives that the Court is a positive environment. @ The Council is in the process of forming a committee to
conduct a self-study of Patterson Court. The Committee will be comprised of 11 Court representatives (one from each house), five
Independents, and three faculty members and administrators. The Council agreed that the committee will choose its own chair, and the
faculty members and administrators will be chosen by a source outside of the Council. The SGA does not plan to
form their own committee to study the Court as long as they are satisfied with the self-study. @ The possibility
of the Union Board and Patterson Court co-sponsoring a band before First or Second Night Down was met with some
opposition. The first nights freshmen are allowed on the Court are the houses’ chance to show that they can “throw
a good party,” said Warner Hall representative Beth Creswell. “It should just be a Court thing,” agreed Cowan. The Council
is still looking into the matter. @ The Alcohol Committee has discussed the College Alcohol Policy, which is currently undergoing
a “wide review.” Kappa Alpha representative Bo Bickerstaff said that the Court’s “open policy” works well, and that they like
being able to go from house to house and feel welcome. Bickerstaff also pointed out that, among the cases of
dangerous blood alcohol levels, no one entered the houses completely sober; they drank elsewhere before coming to the Court. The
Council plans to hold an open forum on the Alcohol Policy soon. -SARAH OGDEN

ACADEMY AWARD NIGHT PARTY COME ONE AND ALL AND WATCH THE OSCARS WITH US! Dress up as your favorite movie
character or as anything movie-related. The event is on March 23rd at 8:00 p.m. until the end of the ceremony
in the 900 Room. There will be food and refreshments served, contests, skits, and door prizes given. There’ll be great
FUN!!!

By NARESH NAGELLA Senior Staff Writer

Usually, the hardest part of parenting is raising the child. However, thanks to recent advances in medical science, a parent
might have to make the toughest choices before their child is even born. For instance, it has led to questions
such as: If genetic screening can tell parents whether their embryo will yield a high IQ test scoring child or
a low IQ test scoring child, which should the parent choose? Should parents even be able to make such choices?
Last Monday, Dr. Glenn McGee from the University of Pennsylvania Center for Bioethics addressed these questions and many others when
he gave a talk entitled “The Perfect Baby?” McGee addressed the previously mentioned worry about parents who make a bunch
of embryos through in-vitro fertilization and test each for the presence of wanted and unwanted genes. Parents could specify the
exact height, intelligence, and physical health of their child through such comparisons. In addition to such choices, parents can now
also give their children Ritalin and other such mood-altering drugs. These pharmaceuticals have been proven to improve the academic performances
of children who do not have the attention deficit or such behavioral problems for which doctors usually prescribe Ritalin. Finally,
doctors can now even perform somatic cell gene therapy and correct for major genetic (hereditary) diseases, mutations, or deficiencies as
the embryo-baby develops. McGee addressed popular objections towards such change to encourage at least further debate in these fields. He
characterized the biggest critique of these choices as the “yuck factor,” stating, “(People think it) just seems unnatural or something
that we are making suchChoices in medical settings.” He said that most people perceive medicine’s sole business as curing disease
or acting only when something in our bodies goes wrong. McGee believes people become more skeptical when medicine is used
to improve a person when nothing is physically wrong with them, in that it works to alter their “natural state”
and not maintain it. He rejected such arguments and called for “smarter, more sophisticated reasons (to ban such choices).” He
said, “There are no natural states we can think of naturally.” For an example, he used the IQ test to
show “how socially bound we can be.” He said that people already can manipulate their “natural” performances on aptitude tests
by taking expensive classes or attending the best schools. In fact, in recent years, IQ scores have increased, while aptitude
scores have dropped. Most experts cite the change happened because children are now exposed to more visual stimuli, which IQ
tests reward, but still are not learning as much fact-based knowledge on which aptitude tests may focus more. He wanted
people to answer how such variations are different from genetic manipulation.

Regarding disease, McGee stated, “Most disease operates on a genetic level, but is not hereditary in nature.” The more prevalent
diseases, like tuberculosis or AIDS, are transmitted not from parent to child but from person to person. Screening for disease-carrying
genes which are genetically transmitted, like sickle cell anemia or cystic fibrosis, might be defensible in such a light. McGee
envisions everyone as having a “bucket” which they want to fill up—and so, meet their potential. However, no one knows
the exact capacity of their bucket and so will try many types of self-improvement to meet an unknown level of
potential. He does not see how genetic/pharmaceutical manipulation may be considered different from such thinking. In fact, when he asked
the audience how many people would give their child Ritalin to improve their test scores versus using Kaplan to do
so, the vast majority of those present signaled they would not use Ritalin but not hesitate to use Kaplan.

Ultimately, McGee worries that these new developments will openly direct resources plus attention away from the real problems which prevent
children from meeting their potential. These obstacles are the presence of weak schools and demanding family pressures which hurt children
from receiving the most substantive, natural type of help. Finally, McGee offered a series of caveats for those who might
decide on such genetic/pharmaceutical improvements for their child. He said, “First, consider the social factors (surrounding the characteristic you want
to change). What it means to be ‘smart’ can depend upon what a society values.” He talked about how one
day the world might praise analytical skills, but the next day praise original thought or problem-solving abilities. He concluded with
a warning of the related “danger of shortsightedness and the loss of flexibility.” McGee commented on how specifying exactly what
type of person your child might be could make him inflexible amidst a world that may change any time. While
genetic testing and pharmaceutical manipulation have the power to change children’s personae, what helps them today might hurt them tomorrow.

Thomson and Edwards speak for NOW
By Melissa Ann De Castrique
Staff Writer

Last Tuesday at 8 p.m., two speakers from the National Organization for Women (NOW) addressed a small group in the
Home Room of the Union. Cindy Thomson, coordinator, and Karen Edwards, historian, of the Charlotte NOW chapter, outlined the organization’s
history and described the chapter’s current aims. NOW was founded by Betty Friedan in 1966, and the Charlotte chapter was
started in 1972. Some of the chapter’s original issues included women’s health issues and the treatment of women in poverty.
The organization also dealt with the role of women in the media, educational systems, and sports.

One specific incident about which Edwards and Thomson spoke was NOW’s effort to combat sex discrimination in TV journalism. Members
of the Charlotte NOW chapter researched ways in which the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission were not being met
by a local news station. NOW found not only violations in the media’s portrayal of women, but also a lack
of management training available to women. When the organization approached the station about reporting these problems, the station made arrangements
to meet the regulations. Other stations soon followed suit and amended their policies.

Some of NOW’s efforts have, however, been unsuccessful. According to Edwards and Thomson, the failure of the Equal Rights Amendment
was “a big downer” for the organization. Although the amendment has yet to be passed, NOW activists are still lobbying
for it. Other issues that NOW is currently involved with include abortion and reproductive rights, as well as the Promise
Keepers organization. NOW is suing Operation Rescue, an anti-abortion group, under racketeering charges. NOW has also launched a “No Surrender”
campaign which opposes the aims of the Promise Keepers leadership, a movement that Thomson claims may be “much more than
a spiritual one.”

After highlighting NOW’s current issues, Edwards and Thomson fielded questions from the audience, including an inquiry as to how a
Davidson extension of the Charlotte NOW could be started. This possibility was discussed further, and several students were concerned that
a NOW extension may split the Women’s Issues Committee. In addition to discussing the benefits and drawbacks of a Davidson
NOW extension, Edwards and Thomson asked the audience about campus involvement in women’s issues and the gender studies program.
