Arts & Living

‘Six Degrees of Separation’ intrigues, enthralls audiences

By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts & Living Editor

The latest undertaking by the Davidson College Theatre Department, John Guare’s “Six Degrees of Separation,” played to five virtually sold-out
crowds between Wednesday, Oct. 28 and Sunday, November 1 at Hodson Hall. This Parents Weekend production gave the Theatre Department
an opportunity to showcase a host of talented student actors and actresses, all of whom displayed the maturity required to
produce and perform in such an intense and complex work as “Six Degrees.” The play was directed by Ann Marie
Costa, Associate Professor of Theatre at Davidson.

Although the play was made into a 1993 film version starring Stockard Channing, Donald Sutherland, and Will Smith in the
lead roles, Guare’s provocative work has enjoyed its greatest popularity on stage rather than on screen. The production has garnered
several prestigious awards en route to earning international acclaim. “Six Degrees of Separation” takes place in the early 1990s and
centers around a high-society Manhattan couple, Flan and Ouisa Kittredge (Will Ragland and Jennifer Leigh Carlyle).

‘inner visions/outer voices’ a triumph for Prior

By ANNE STANCIL
Staff Writer

On Friday, Nov. 6 and Saturday, Nov. 7, the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra premiered a piece composed by Davidson's own Dr.
Richard Prior, conductor of the Davidson Symphony and Assistant Professor of Music. Composed in 1997-1998, the piece, titled “inner visions/outer
voices,” reflects the influence of teachers and performers with whom Prior has worked throughout his career. The work is subtitled
“a concerto for orchestra,” and in Prior’s own words, “One of the practical considerations when conceiving this work was to
highlight the different sections of the modern symphony orchestra.” Prior explains that the piece “explores musical ideas that often juxtapose
the different instrumental families and presents melodies that pass between them.”

Before both performances, Prior addressed a pre-concert crowd about the piece and its conception. He explained the principal musical gestures
that run throughout the work. Full of rhythmic vitality and rich harmonies, “inner visions/outer voices” is written in a neo-Romantic
style. Divided into two sections, “the first concerns itself with a somewhat fragmented exploration of the first strand, presenting two
stretches of material hallmarked by descending scale patterns that pursue the idea of increasing textual density. Continuing into the second
section, “three sets of contrasting material are heard: a rushing scale pattern scored predominately in the strings refers to the
descending scale patterns heard in the opening section of the work; percussive, syncopated chords dominated by the horns, and finally,
a lilting section of material scored primarily in the woodwinds and harp.”

Conductor Fabio Mechetti explained that preparing a new work is not much different from preparing an older piece: the conductor
tries to remain true to the composer’s intentions. He further explains that with a new piece, it is easier to
maintain the composer’s intent, whereas a piece with many previous performances carries diverse interpretations which stray from the original intentions
of the composer.

The Davidson audience perhaps recognized passing allusions to the Concerto for Piano and Orchestra: “Phoenix Rising,” which Prior composed in
1996 for James Swisher, a former associate professor of music and Pianist in Residence at Davidson who tragically fell victim
to cancer in the fall of 1996. This concerto was premiered in the spring of 1996 by the Davidson College
Symphony Orchestra. Approximately 16 minutes long, “inner visions/outer voices” was received with thunderous applause from both crowds, each nearly 4000
strong, at Charlotte’s Blumenthal Performing Arts Center. One of the most rewarding aspects of the compositional process, according to Prior,
is the opportunities it provides to learn and teach. Both Prior and his composition students attended rehearsals of the piece,
during which PriorEngaged in dialogue with the musicians about their individual parts within the work, the students also learned a
great deal about the process behind rehearsal, which will be quite beneficial to them as they attend rehearsals of their
own works. With a background in the rich choral tradition of English Cathedrals, Prior received a Bachelor’s degree with honors
in music from the University of Leeds; he continued his doctoral studies at the University of Nottingham. His compositions have
received numerous performances in Great Britain, Europe, and the United States. These compositions include several other orchestral pieces and numerous
choral works. The premiere of “Inner Visions/Outer Voices” was truly the birth of a significant work in contemporary symphony repertoire.

Carlyle, respectively, in their downtown fifth-floor apartment. Flan is an art dealer bent upon making a sale which would be
worth two million dollars. Money preoccupies them until a young man who calls himself Paul (John Watson) arrives at their
door, claiming to be 1.) wounded as a result of a mugging in Central Park, 2.) a friend of the
Kittredge’s children at Harvard, and 3.) (the least believable of his fibs) the son of famed African-American film pioneer Sidney
Poitier. He also entices his hosts by offering them roles as extras in the film version of “Cats,” produced by
his famous (alleged) father. In actuality, Paul is a trained con man, driven by a desire to belong with (or
at least flirt with) members of high society. The Kittredges boot Paul out of their apartment after they wake up
to find that he has patronized a male prostitute in their home, at which point Paul sets out to pull
the same scheme off again on some other unsuspecting couple. Flan and Ouisa soon learn the truth about Paul’s background,
yet while Flan is embarrassed to have been deceived, Ouisa cannot escape a feeling of concern and attachment to the
young man. It is this bewildering emotional paradox around which the play centers; why do we sympathize with Paul when
we know full well that he is ostensibly the villain in the whole twisted affair? John Watson mentioned that it
was when this phenomenon was achieved that it meant his job as the actor had been accomplished. The play, which
ran about 90 minutes in length, was performed on a stage built at an angle, tilted towards the audience. The
set also featured a painting meant to represent a two-sided Kandinsky, one side of the painting depicting control, and the
other, chaos. Davidson’s production of Guare’s contemporary classic met with extraordinary acclaim from parents and students alike, but mostly the
latter. They found the production to have been extremely well-conceived and the casting perfect. “Six Degrees” was one production that
will not be soon forgotten.

MTV's “Singled Out” Is Coming — to Davidson!!!! OK, well, it’s not really MTV’s version but it'll still be fun.
Come by and win an all-expenses-paid date with one of Davidson's most attractive personalities!!! Friday, November 13 900 Room of
the Union 7:00 PM Sponsored by: Student Health Leaders

MAGIC OF CHRISTMAS
Peter McCoppin, conducting
Thu Dec 3 at 8 pm
Special Family Matinee
Sat Dec 5 at 2:30 pm

The magic returns - Charlotte's traditional season extravaganza filled with heartwarming holiday favorites. Returning by popular demand are the Oratorio
Chamber Singers, Youth Oratorio Singers, Jim Boyce Steel Pros, and the Beth Chorneau Jazz Quartet. Plus Charlotte favorite Daryle Ryce,
CSO principal cellist Alan Black, Charlotte Children’s Chorus, and the Coventry Handbell Ringers! There’s a joyful Sing-Along to start the
season in beauty and style. A fun and memory-making family tradition with the CHARLOTTE SYMPHONY Pops. Fun for everyone. Bring
the kids and grandkids. Meet Santa. Candy canes for all. Kids under 12 half-price.

Sponsored by Donald Haack Diamonds.

10% off COLLEGE DISCOUNT
Please mention coupon when ordering tickets through SymphonyCharge or at the CSO Ticket Office. 704 332 6136
