6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

Council finds Halbauer not guilty

By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

Less than 24 hours before stepping on the court against the Massachusetts Minutemen, the men’s basketball team won a most
important victory. In an open Honor Code trial Wednesday night in the Union Conference Room at 7:00 p.m., Davor Halbauer,
a sophomore guard who has been in the starting lineup much of the season, was found not guilty on charges
that he cheated on a Chemistry 105 final exam Dec. 18. The verdict was announced shortly before 1:00 a.m.

Scott Reeder, a junior who was one of four students — including Halbauer — taking the Chemistry exam in the
room in Martin, reported suspicious activity to the Dean of Students Office around 4:30 that afternoon. Specifically, Reeder said Wednesday
night, “I saw what appeared to be Davor peering over a student’s shoulder.”

That student, freshman Sarah Witmer, was sitting a row in front of Halbauer and slightly to his right, and stated
during the trial that she was not aware of any potential infraction while she took the test. Reeder testified that
Halbauer looked at Witmer’s paper “about six times,” and that four of those times he was “leaning out of his
desk.” Reeder, who was sitting a row in front of Halbauer and to his left, also told the Honor Council
that Halbauer had moved one desk closer to Witmer in the early stages of the exam.

Halbauer, who took the stand after Reeder and Chemistry professor Durwin Striplin, denied all of Reeder’s charges. “I never changed
my seat,” he said. “I never leaned during the exam period.” When asked by the Council what the Honor Code
meant to him, Halbauer replied, “I signed the little sheet of paper (at the beginning of freshman year), and for
me, my signature means respect.”

In addition, the members of the men’s basketball program sign a separate team honor pledge every Friday. According to coach
Bob McKillop, who took the stand later in the trial, Halbauer has faithfully complied with that practice since he arrived
at Davidson in August 1996. When asked what his initial reaction was upon hearing the charges against Halbauer, McKillop responded,
“Disbelief. Shock. That it could never happen.”

Junior Karim Lawrence, the fourth student in the test-taking room, told the Council that he saw no suspicious behavior from
Halbauer, adding that his own positioning in the room — back right — was the best to have witnessed a
violation. “My vantage point in the class was the best,” Lawrence said, “because I was sitting in the back and
the classroom slopes down.”

“Karim was our ace in the hole,” said Defense Advisor Damon Colbert. Still, Halbauer’s exam results were, in the words
of Student Solicitor Virginia Fisher, “strikingly similar” to Witmer’s. On a 35-question multiple choice section — the only portion of
the exam on which Halbauer was accused of cheating — Witmer got eight wrong, Halbauer 10. But eight of Halbauer’s
wrong answers matched Witmer’s.up exactly with Witmer’s eight. “There is definitely a strong correlation between what was missed by Sarah
and what was missed by Davor,” Striplin told the Council. “I would’ve thought it to be improbable” for Halbauer and
Witmer to have legally completed such similar tests. For Student Solicitor Tripp Franklin, this, along with Reeder’s testimony, presented “clear
and convincing evidence that Davor Halbauer cheated.” But as Colbert reminded the Council before bringing Halbauer to the stand, “Davor
is innocent until proven guilty. Scott Reeder’s suspicion does not equal Davor Halbauer’s guilt.”

Following that principle, Colbert and fellow Defense Advisor Wesley Hart pieced together their case — one that eventually proved Halbauer’s
innocence. As Colbert showed, Reeder’s written report from Dec. 18 conflicted with his spoken testimony on Tuesday night. In his
written statement to the Dean of Students Office, he reported that Halbauer had looked over both Witmer’s shoulder and his
shoulder. On Tuesday night, he said that Halbauer only looked at Witmer’s paper. When pressed about the inconsistency, Reeder claimed,
“I wrote it (the report) down hastily.” The defense tandem also sought to prove that, from Reeder’s lower vantage point,
it would have been virtually physically impossible for him to know on exactly what section Halbauer allegedly cheated. Also, Reeder
stated Wednesday night that he saw Halbauer leaning “periodically throughout the test,” even though the multiple-choice section should have taken
only 30 to 45 minutes. Halbauer claimed he spent “35 to 45 minutes only on multiple choice,” and never once
revisited that particular portion of the exam.

Also working in Halbauer’s favor was his alarming consistency on test grades in the course. On all three exams —
including the final, which was not cumulative — Halbauer made a 71 percent. He had a 78, or C+, going
into the final, and needed — according to Striplin — “a 54 or 55” percent on the Dec. 18 exam
to end up with a C in the course. And due to a concussion he suffered Dec. 10 in the
UNC Charlotte game and an ensuing hospital stay, Halbauer had been granted permission by Striplin to take the exam whenever
he felt adequately prepared. When asked why he chose to take it in the last regular final exam period, Halbauer
said he felt prepared enough to not have to take an extension.

Ultimately, this evidence was enough to put Halbauer’s apparent guilt into question and prompt the Council members — Claire Cheetwood,
Katie Nelson, Matthew Ellis, Liz Clasen, Austin Rios, and Regina Marranzini — to levy a verdict of innocence. “We expected
(the verdict of innocence),” Hart said. “What we presented, we thought we clouded it enough to where it was not
clear and convincing evidence. We just wanted to create doubt in the Council’s mind.” “I wasn’t surprised by the verdict,”
Colbert added, “because I thought the case went as well as it could have gone for us. In my heart,
I felt that Davor was not guilty.”

Said McKillop: “I was absolutely thrilled with the verdict. I was extremely confident in Davor’s honor and integrity. I think
it was very clear and apparent that Davor has a record of integrity and honor since he’s been here at
Davidson College.” When reached Thursday afternoon, Fisher declined comment.
