THE DAVIDSONIAN

Agents of Good Roots ignites Spring Frolics

By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts & Living Editor

It rained on Friday evening. This brought the traditionally outdoor inflatable festival of mirth and joy known as Spring Frolics
into the hallowed confines of historic Johnston Gym. Hundreds of Davidson students were left to do their auctioning, jousting, sliding,
dunk tanking, and bungee-running “Hoosiers” style. But just as the weather didn’t stop the throng from enjoying itself, neither did
it prevent the groove train that was Agents of Good Roots from performing a good 75 minutes of both original
and borrowed rock and jazz.

The band began playing at around 9:00 p.m. Most of the crowd arrived late, but steadily grew after the first
couple of songs. The Agents played several tracks off of their latest CD (“One by One”) including “Come On,” “Where'd
You Get That Vibe?,” “Miss America,” and “Upspin.” As usual, the band passed lead vocal responsibilities around the stage, with
guitarist/keyboardist Andrew Winn lending his raspy voice to “Smiling Up the Frown,” “Come On” and others. Maniacal drummer Brian Jones
sang lead on “Two Bucks in Cash,” “Where’d You Get That Vibe?,” and soulful bassist Stewart Myers did “Bum Club”
and “Upspin.” Agents of Good Roots’s jazzy side manifested itself through several sax jams courtesy of J.C. Kuhl.

The group performed a few covers as well, including Dire Straits’s “Sultans of Swing” and Paul Simon’s classic “50 Ways
to Leave Your Lover.” Unfortunately, the familiarity of these tunes seemed to float right over the audience’s head. The crowd
was also treated to two Agents tunes, “Bum Club” and “Dress Circle,” which they had not performed since early 1997.
The band had planned to do a two-song encore, but they cut the performance short in light of the audience’s
waning enthusiasm. Fortunately, the relatively short gig was fraught with energy and verve.

Agents of Good Roots seemed to enjoy their stay at Davidson, with several band members taking a pre-concert jog around
Richardson Field's state-of-the-art asphalt track. In what might be one of the last opportunities to see them on a small
local stage, Agents of Good Roots will be performing on April 26 in Charlotte. Rumors that they will be opening
for the Dave Matthews Band on portions of their summer tour continue to circulate. And if Dave Matthews likes them,
then conventional wisdom says that we Davidson folk should too.

A&L Editor’s Note: Kirk Willingham contributed immensely to this article.

Agents of Good Roots turned desolate Johnston Gym into a rockin’ Johnston Gym last Friday during Spring Frolics.

TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1998

Amadeus Trio gives “world-class” performance

By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts & Living Editor

It'll be a cold day in Ouagadougou before three instrumentalists on Hodson stage make sounds this pristine again. The Amadeus
Trio performed the fifth and final concert of this year’s Davidson College Concert Series last Monday night in Hodson Hall,
“The Piedmont’s Palace of Classical Music.” This chamber ensemble is made up of Marian Hahn (piano), Timothy Baker (violin), and
Jeffrey Solow (cello).

The concert began with a performance of Beethoven’s Trio in D Major, Op. 70, No. 1 (“Ghost”). This piece was
quite enthralling, although longer than I expected it to be. Nonetheless, the trio did a splendid job with it, and
it wasn’t long before the audience began to discover why they have been called “one of the most dynamic chamber
music groups to emerge in recent years.” Timothy Baker’s violin skills were nothing short of “mad” — his performance was
virtually flawless, showcasing exemplary artistic and technical proficiency. Marian Hahn’s keyboard talents were equally evident, as she too delivered a
commendable performance. Jeffrey Solow, as one might expect, could play cello better than the average bear.

The second piece on the program was Astor Piazzolla’s (1921-92) “Three Pieces for Piano Trio.” The first of these, Primavera
Porteña, incorporated lots of Latin American rhythms which were a welcome change from Beethoven’s early Romanticism. The third piece, entitled
Tango revolucionario, incorporateda highly difficult cello part and a crazy fast violin solo, in which Baker seemed to hit every
note. Piazzolla’s compositions were the highlight of the concert for many. Dvorak’s Trio in F Minor (Op. 65) comprised the
entire second half of the performance. The ensemble displayed the same brilliance with which they had performed the Beethoven. The
musicians were clearly well-rehearsed, and furthermore seemed to possess an intimate knowledge of each other’s playing — probably representative of
the type of rapport that develops after six years of performing together. One of the most fascinating things about the
Amadeus Trio was Timothy Baker’s violin, the famous “Guitar” Stradivarius, made in 1725 by the then-82-year-old craftsman. The violin was
formerly under the ownership of violin virtuoso Joshua Bell, but don’t tell Mr. Baker that you thought you’d seen his
violin somewhere before, because he’s been hearing the same thing for five years and it won’t impress him a bit.
Mr. Baker is a graduate of the Juilliard School and has been performing as a concert soloist with professional symphony
orchestras for two decades. Mr. Solow has performed over twenty cello concertos and has given solo recitals all over the
world. He is also regarded as an outstanding teacher. Ms. Hahn is a graduate of both Oberlin College and the
Juilliard School, and has performed many recitals in the United States and Europe. She is on faculty at the Peabody
Conservatory of Music in Baltimore. The Amadeus Trio concert last Monday night provided a most worthy conclusion to an outstanding
1997-98 Concert Series. They’ve been receiving rave reviews across the nation for six years, and they deserve nothing less from
us. www.amadeustrio.com @ The Amadeus Trio

On the Scene at Davidson COLLEGE.

Coffeehouse. Get a cup of joe for your friend Frank. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Art Exhibits. Think of them as movies set on pause. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the VAC.

Jumpin’ Java. Get something to nourish your weary brain. 7:30 - 12:30 p.m. in the Outpost.

Marjorie Agosin. For more information contact Magdalena Maiz-Peña. 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Inter City Outing. For more information, contact Debbi Berry. 8:30 - 9:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Twenty-one Year Old Night. This one's for you. (Must be 21 and have two valid IDs to participate. Void where
prohibited.) 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Sarah Woodard Sale. Buy stuff from Sarah. 11:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

CROP Lunch. Discuss hunger while eating lunch. 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Climbing Wall. It’s happy, it’s fun, it’s happy fun wall. Play with it. But be careful. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m.
in Johnston Gym.

Cheap Donuts. Frosted for almost free. 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Coffeehouse. Mmmm, mocha. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

No Friday Afternoon Club. You should be home or sleeping. Normally at 4:30 - 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Easter Break. The Easter Bunny is not your friend, he has taken your eggs. Find them.

TUESDAY

Environmental Summit Conference. Confer about the environment. 8:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Climbing Wall. Guys, show off to the girlfriend; Girls, laugh at the boyfriend. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Johnston
Gym.

Habitat for Humanity. Build houses for a good cause. 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Home Room.

Patterson Court Council. Off the Court and on the record. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Kayak Rolling. Pretend that you're on a river, rolling some kayaks. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. in Baker Pool.

DC Symphony Orchestra Concert. Listen to Mozart and Beethoven. Bring a date. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the Love Auditorium.

Easter Break Begins. Go home. Dye some eggs.

Easter Break. More sleep.
