THE DAVIDSONIAN

Do less — for the environment

My title reveals one reason why punctuation is so important: I’m not suggesting that we do less for the environment;
instead, we should do less — for the environment. This Thursday, Apr. 23, marks Davidson’s celebration of Earth Day, and
I hope everyone will join us on the Union patio from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. for burgers (veggie) and
franks (turkey), music, interactive displays, and lots of great information about how you can help in environmental efforts at the
local, national, and international levels.

But we can also make considerable contributions individually. By now, everyone should know about the very easy, very convenient recycling
system we have on campus (and if you don’t, make an Earth Day commitment to learning how!). But recycling is
only one part of the environmentalists’ tripartite exhortation: reduce, reuse, recycle. Recycling comes third in the list deliberately. We should
first try to reduce our needs and wants, then reuse as many materials and resources as possible, and finally —
once we've made our best efforts to reduce and reuse — we can recycle, too.

Let us first reduce, though. Do less. Want less. Need less. As Thoreau commands in “Walden” (albeit redundantly): simplify, simplify.
Turn off the water when you’re not using it. Turn off lights when you’re not using them (this includes in
Chambers at night). Take only the specific silverware and the one napkin you need at mealtime. Most of us know
a few energy conservation techniques — put them into practice, and learn additional ones. Look around you and think about
how to reduce your consumption of all kinds of materials.

We squander incredible amounts of paper daily. To cite one of the most obvious examples, if we were to eliminate
all flyers, we could save enormous costs in paper, photocopying, labor, and waste removal (both trash and recycling). The Environmental
Action Coalition does a great job of recycling flyers and turning them into useful paper pads, but it would be
even better if we could reduce the amount of paper right at the source. Publicity doesn’t have to use paper
— we also have e-mail, sidewalk chalk, message boards, event calendars, and bulletin boards (provided, of course, we don’t plaster
those bulletin boards with a bunch of flyers).

Yet these are, ultimately, only temporary measures for dealing with the environmental crises facing us. The only permanently successful solution
is to change attitudes, and the most important attitude change is: Do Less.

Mainstream American culture assumes that “bigger, better, faster” made this country great, and we continue to assume that More is
Better. Even at Davidson, we encourage Doing More (fill in your work or play activity of choice here). We reward
those who Do More, especially those who Do It All. But in our shortsighted efforts to do as much as
we can in the limited time we have and with the limited resources available, we too often neglect the consequences
or implications of our actions.

I’ve been thinking a lot lately about conserving energy, especially my own energy. Like many Davidsonians I know (faculty, staff,
students), I’m exhausted a lot of the time. I rush from one meeting or class or appointment or commitment to
the next; I eat lunch at my desk while answering my e-mail and talking to a student or colleague and
thinking about all the other things I have to do; I fix dinner or do the dishes while listening to
the news or watching TV and talking to Randy and thinking about all the other things I have to do;
I even “wrote” a good bit of this essay while running with my dog on the cross-country trails and swimming
laps in the Baker pool. Like most people I know, I rarely do just one thing at a time, and
I can’t really remember the last time I just did nothing.

I hear a lot of conversations about This Place and what it demands of us, how stressed we are, how
there’s no time to reflect / just sit around and talk / sleep / nurture friendships / read anything that’s
not assigned / enjoy the sunshine / just be. But these are precisely the activities we should be able to
do more often. They enrich us and give back the energy we spend in doing all the other things that
keep us from these more reflective, meditative, and nourishing endeavors.

I’m certainly not advocating that we stop striving for excellence, that we become a loose group of slackers, or that
we all become so narrowly focused on one thing that we lose the vibrant diversity of our community. I am,
however, suggesting that we try to do a little less. Reduce the number of commitments we have. Reduce the amount
of time we spend in inefficient, energy-draining procrastination. Instead of complaining about how we don’t have time to reflect, make
time for it. Amend our thinking so that we praise and reward mindfulness rather than excess. By slowing down, we
will discover other resources we didn’t know we had — insight, focus, awareness. And by reducing our activity to a
more manageable level, perhaps we’ll also learn how to reduce other forms of consumption. We’re often exhorted to “do more
with less,” but we could also learn to do less — and Be More.

This week, think about how to live more consciously in all your environments: your hall or apartment, your classrooms, Chambers
lawn, Patterson Court; the Catawba watershed, the North Carolina Piedmont, the rainforests and oceans and forests and air you breathe
and water that sustains you. For the sake of all these environments, do less.

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Changes in Honor Code ongoing

To the Editors:

This is a letter to update the student body on the most recent revisions of the proposed Honor Code revision.
The Student Conduct Council met Thursday, Apr. 9, and made changes to the original proposal. I would like to thank
students for actively voicing their opinions on this vital issue. Currently, we are working on a few more details regarding
the revision. While the core and spirit of the document have been maintained, its presentation has changed in order to
provide greater clarity and understanding for those who pledge to live by the document while at this institution.

Sincerely,
Joslyn Ogden ‘00

PROPOSED HONOR CODE REVISION

Each Davidson student is honor bound to refrain from lying about college business, cheating on academic work, and stealing. Cheating
is any practice, method, or assistance, whether explicitly forbidden or unmentioned, that involves any degree of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit.
Additional guidelines for each class may be determined by its professor; each Davidson student is responsible for knowing and adhering
to them. Each student is responsible for learning and observing appropriate documentation of another’s work. Stealing is the intentional taking
of any property without right or permission. Lying is intentional misrepresentation of any form. Each Davidson student is honor bound
to report immediately all violations of the Honor Code of which the student has first-hand knowledge; failure to do so
is itself a violation of the Honor Code. All students, faculty, and staff of Davidson College are responsible for familiarity
with and support of the Honor Code. Any student, faculty member, administrative officer, employee, or guest of the college may
charge a student with a violation of the Honor Code. Charges are presented to the Dean of Students and, at
the Dean’s discretion, must be signed. If the Deandetermines that further proceedings are warranted by the Honor Council, he or
she will prepare a formal charge. The following statement is the official Honor Pledge of Davidson College: “On my honor,
I have neither given nor received unauthorized information regarding this work, I have followed and will continue to observe all
regulations regarding it, and I am unaware of any violation of the Honor Code by others.”

To Submit Letters To The Editors:
Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon, or e-mail
any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich
Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise
adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

What’s the proof of that cereal?

Have you ever eaten Jelly Bellies before? I have. Lots of ‘em — probably tons. I’ve eaten so many, I’ve
got my own jelly belly. Call 896-6626 if you wish to touch it. Anyway, these things are good because they
come in all these wacked-out flavors like marshmallow, tangerine, lima bean, mildew, and my personal favorite — Godzilla breath. Warning:
Don’t ever eat the ones flavored like popcorn. It might be the worst tasting morsel in the nation. I would
rather eat the food at Kappa Sigma. If you can avoid the popcorn jelly bean (it’s the white one with
yellow spots, not to be confused with jaundice flavored; that would be the yellow with white spots) then you will
discover that the novelty behind Jelly Bellies is that you can pop two different flavors inside your mouth to produce
mind-boggling combinations like peanut butter and jelly or caramel apple, or mildewed Godzilla breath. It’s really exciting!

The point behind all this — well, to be honest there really isn’t one. However, the other morning I woke
up with an empty stomach and decided I'd go for some cereal. So I grabbed a bowl and poured me
some Harris Teeter brand cardboard. Of course, we didn’t have any milk in our refrigerator and neither did the girls
next door (who, by the way, are dying for me to write an article about their ridiculous dialect known to
those who must endure it as “brev’ lang,” — i.e. “Let’s go to Broogz [Brueggers],” or “My rents [parents] are
coming to visit this weekend.”). Well, all this talk about jelly beans got me thinking about things I could substitute
for the milk I lacked. Unfortunately, all I could think of was liquor. Ergo, it’s probably safe to say that
I have contrived America’s first Alcoholic Breakfast of Champions.

Before I begin with my cereal/liquor combinations, however, I would like to apologize to my parents for letting them waste
over $100,000 for me to come to school here. Mom and Dad, I'm afraid this is the best I can
do:

1. Rice Krispies and Saki. Imported from the jungles of Cambodia, this potent combination has been a favorite of the
Asian community for hundreds of years. Brought to the states in the ‘70s by Khmer Rouge defectors, the concoction is
known today in kindergarten circles as Snap, Crackle, Drop. I talked to a taxi-driving friend of mine in Detroit named
Flizzle Flam who eats this stuff for breakfast every morning. He had the following to say about his favorite a.m.
energizer: “The stuff looked like crap when I first saw it, brother. But when I finally tasted it, I thought
I was flying with ‘dem angels. Ain't nothin’ like the tastebud shockwave that stuff gives me! Whooooceeeee!”

2. White Rocket and Shredded Mini-Wheats. No other cereal will make you blast off like this one. I’m incapable of
describing the taste of Shredded Mini-Rockets to you, but you can go to Cashions and try it for yourself if
you want for $1.89.

3. Total and Kool cigarettes. Yeah, I know I said I was mixing cereal with liquor, but I couldn’t resist
this tempting combination, which, to my knowledge, is the first-ever mentholated breakfast. Would ya just think of that! You wouldn’t
even have to brush your teeth afterwards! I call this one the “ethereal cereal” because the taste of Totally Kool
lasts a lifetime in your mouth. Yum.

4. Alphabets and Jack Daniels. Amazingly, this morning delicatessen is a product of the United States government. In 1982, a
study by the U.S. Department of Education found that 97.4 percent of Tennessee’s rural population could not read or write.
Due to extensive budget cuts, however, the government could not afford the proposed means to correct this embarrassing problem; 2,000,000
copies of “Hooked On Phonics” was just too expensive. In 1989, Governor Al Gore (D) came upon an intelligent and
practical solution: Why not combine learning with a community staple: bourbon? Thus, Alpha Jacks was born. The toddlers in Tennessee
have never been happier, or smarter, for that matter.

5. Cocoa Puffs and Kahlua. I wish this were funny, but it’s not because it actually tastes good.

6. Mueslix and Everclear. For all you health nuts, this product is 100 percent grain — alcohol, that is. This
dish is typically preferred by those who like to breathe fire in the morning: Puff (The Magic Dragon), Godzilla (See,
this article is circular!), and the like. Everlix is also beneficial because it keeps you regular. If you eat a
bowl every morning you will be a regular mess. A side note: The world record for most bowls of Everlix
consumed in one sitting is two. I know a guy who ate three, but he was immediately disqualified when he
died half an hour later.

7. Raisin Bran and Brandy. To make this, just add two scoops of Bran and two scoops of brandy, which
yields four scoops of tangy breakfast joy. If you like brandy (and who the hell doesn’t!), then you'll love Raisin
Brandy.

8. Captain Morgan and Captain Crunch. Otherwise known as Morgan Camp Crunch, this cereal is a spicy rum delight. If
you have a few bowls of this before class, you just might jump up on your desk and yell, “O
Captain, my Captain!”

I really can’t go too in depth about any others, but I think I'll offer a list of those I
didn’t get to: Corn Pops and Goldschlager (looks like you are eating chunks of gold!), Lucky Charms and Wild Irish
Rose, Kix and King Cobra, Fruity Pebbles and Manishevitz (the first alcoholic Kosher cereal), Honey Jaeger Cheerios, Quaker Oats and
Beast Light (the irony!), and Zima Smacks.

For the sake of space, I must conclude my list, but I hope it has stirred your culinary imagination. In
case you were wondering about my personal life (and I know many of you are), my ankle has healed (break
dancing injury), and I am currently trying to contact someone in the music business to see if I can try
out to be the fourth Hanson brother. After all, I play a mean kazoo.

I guess I'll end this article with a bit of advice. Everybody likes to save a few pennies here and
there. The next time you are at the grocery store, bypass the dairy section and head straight for the 40s
and malts. And if you won’t try it for yourself, try it for me. You won’t regret it.
