ORTA LIBERTAS

A LEN. D.A...L Ux. ..U Bul

“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”

Established 1914

Last round rally.
Golf team ties for fourth in SoCon.

SPORTS 9

Madness rules.
The hour, that is.

A&L 11

Julian Bond speaks to Love
audience about civil rights:

By Matt CLIFFORD
Staff Writer

The breakfast of champions.
Hints from Chef Britton.

OPINIONS 7

Wright garners Pulitzer.
Poet/alum makes good.

NEWS 3

A half-capacity crowd managed to emerge from a
spring-induced haze to Love Auditorium last Wednesday
night for a speaker of national significance. Described as a
“landmark occasion” here at Davidson by freshman Jehan
Shamsid-Deen, the speaker enlightened and refreshed this
often sheltered campus. Julian Bond, Chairman of the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
(NAACP), addressed the history of the civil rights movement
in America and the relevance of the NAACP in today’s
society.

Bond spoke intimately of his interaction with Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. and the broader historical complexi-
ties of the fight for equality on all fronts. He was a student at
Morehouse College in Atlanta, Ga., where he gazed upon
King’s “pearls of wisdom” as one of the six in King’s only
class.

Wesley Hart introduced Bond, reeling off a litany of
committees and acronyms the chairman of the nearly 90-
year-old organization has been party to in the past. Bond was
an original member of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee (commonly known as SNCC) as well as the
Committee on Appeal for Civil Rights and the ACLU. Hart
acknowledged that Bond is currently a professor at the
University of Virginia and American University.

Bond shed all of these labels of academia and
politics by immediately establishing a confident yet intimate
rapport with the audience, strongly represented by Davidson
students, faculty, community, and regional NAACP repre-
sentatives. Bond recalled the creed of W.E.B. Du Bois in
founding the nation’s longest living civil rights organization.

Bill Giduz
@ Prior to his Wednesday night speech, Julian Bond walked the Davidson campus with BSC
President Wesley Hart.

Turner House may join others on Patterson Court

See Julian Bond on page 3

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

Last Tuesday, the Patterson Court
Council voted unanimously to approve
final plans for the creation of a fourth
eating house. The CCRL meeting sched-
uled for Thursday included a similar
motion on its agenda. The meeting,
however, was temporarily postponed
until today.

Following the stir of fall semester’s
sorority debate and President Vagt’s
eventual decision to reject extending an
invitation to national Pan-Hellenic so-
rorities, rumors of plans for a fourth
eating house have been rampant. Within
three weeks of students’ return to cam-
pus second semester, signs announcing
an organizational meeting advertised
the creation of a house. Since that time,
a handful of individuals have been work-
ing to facilitate details and advertise for
new members. Membership currently
stands at 78 women.

After extensive research and con-
versation, members recently voted to
name the new house Turner House for
former Davidson student and service
coordinator Catherine Turner. Turner
House represents the only house cur-
rently on Patterson Court that is named
for a Davidson alumna. Turner House
will be located in Pax, which will un-
dergo renovations to add a kitchen and
make various other improvements.
During renovations, Turner will share a
cook with Patterson Court neighbor
Kappa Sigma.

At Sunday night’s house meeting,
members of Turner voted for the frog as
the official mascot. Elections pro-
duced an executive board of 15 women:
President Mary Shell Brosche ’00, so-
cial chairs Hope Henry and Claire Sisko
’99, members-at-large Katherine Bailey
and Melissa Otis ’99, house managers
Erin Smith and Jill Neumayer ’01, trea-
surers Stephanie Barfield and Christa
Conner ’01, secretary Lauren Wilson
’99, vice presidents Zaidee Rose ’00
and Gina Mooney ’01, kitchen manag-
ers Emily Shingler and Molly Bahm
’01, and service chairs Page Neubert
’01 and Brooks Chappelle ’99.

As an entirely new entity on the
court, Turner will spend this summer
and next fall developing traditions in-
cluding cheers, songs, toasts, and an-
nual functions.

“I’m completely optimistic about
the house,” said Sisko. “I think there’s
a lot of energy in the house, a lot of girls
excited about what we can do. I think
we'll continue to have good numbers
and a lot of participation in the house
and in PCC as a whole.”

One of Turner’s main initial
challenges will be financial support for
the house. New members of the execu-
tive board are currently working on a
pool of resources from which to solicit
support for the house, and creating a
proposal to present to prospective do-
nors.

“I want it to be fun for
everyone,” said
CLASS OF 2002 - PRELIMINARY PROFILE
Information provided by the Davidson College Office of Admission and Financial Aid

Early Decision SAT Students of Color
Middle 50% Verbal 630-730 308 applied, 10% of all applied.
Middle 50% Math 640 - 720 126 accepted, 11% of all accepted.
Middle 50% Combined 1290 - 1430
M F Total
Applied 140 157 297
Accepted 68 58 126
Enrolled 58 50 108
Middle 50% of ACT Composite is 28-31.
Class Rank Five Most Represented States
Top 10% 79% NC, VA, GA, SC, TN

INDEX
News 1-5
Editorials 6
Letters 6-7
Op-Ed 7
Arts & Living 10
Sports 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
