a Tarkanian to join Wildcat staff
By Bos Costas
Guest Writer

We always hoped he’d come to his senses, but never really expected it to happen. Finally, our wishes have come true. In one of the most surprising off-season coaching moves in the NCAA, Jerry Tarkanian, current Fresno State coach and former coach of the national champion UNLV Running Rebels, has announced his decision to leave the slimy, grimy world of college basketball that he has helped create. Next season, Tarkanian will join the basketball program here at Davidson as an assistant coach. Give him a chance. Maybe he’s changed.

Tarkanian’s announcement came this Monday after his team was hit with one of the most shocking, as well as most unexpected, scandals ever. Sophomore forward Winfred Walton was arrested on multiple counts of drug trafficking. It has now been revealed that Walton was actually born Felipe Gustavo Campos, and is in fact the son of and sole heir to Juan Campos, the leader of one of the largest drug cartels in Colombia. Walton was apparently using his fake identity as a college basketball player to import massive shipments of cocaine into the United States. He began his college career at Syracuse before transferring to Fresno State prior to this season. Unofficial reports indicate that Walton’s cover was in jeopardy at Syracuse and the coaches and police alike were becoming suspicious. He then decided he needed to relocate to a school where the people were even stupider than those at Syracuse. That move landed him at Fresno State. Upon conviction, Walton is expected to receive a sentence of no less than 250 years in prison for his crimes.

Tarkanian said of the discovery, “Winfred really pulled the wool over our eyes here. He had me and everyone else completely fooled. We thought he was who he said he was.” When asked if Walton did anything suspicious, Tarkanian replied, “It didn’t seem unusual that he was driving a $50,000 sports car around. All of our ball players do that. Besides, he passed all of his drug tests. Wait, did we test him? Oh, that’s right. That was Jimmy, the guy we gave a scholarship to piss for the players because he’s incontinent. The kid’s amazing. The NCAA would want to test five guys, and Jimmy could routinely piss enough to fill up all their little cups. The Olympic weight lifting teams should really look into him. Anyway, we never actually tested Winfred, so he probably has steroids AND cocaine in his system.”

So Tarkanian was fooled by this slick-talking, drug-peddling, slam-dunking Colombian, and for him that was the last straw. Immediately after learning of the news flash, Tarkanian resigned from Fresno State and began looking for a new job as an assistant. Tarkanian explained, “I still want to be involved in the game. I’m just sick and tired of trying to recruit. I’m a pretty lousy coach and Fresno State has absolutely no redeeming features as a school, so I had to cheat. But as an assistant, it’s not my responsibility any more. I’m just sick of dealing with players that are just stupid, drug-dealing criminals. I want to be at a school where the players are smart and don’t get arrested. I just want to be one of the good guys.”

Touching.

Davidson was in the running with several other schools who tempted Tarkanian with an assistant position. He turned down Princeton when he realized that the players really weren’t any smarter than his Fresno State players, they were just better behaved. Gonzaga and Providence were also potential destinations for Tarkanian. He decided that Gonzaga was too close geographically to his former schools, and abandoned Providence due to contract disputes. Tarkanian’s arrival on campus next year will symbolize a new era in college athletics—the era of playing fair. The NCAA has lost all patience for players who cannot also manage to be law-abiding citizens.

This marks the end of a coaching stint at two schools that saw dozens of NCAA investigations and violations. Tarkanian became famous, or rather infamous, for his ridiculously illegal recruiting tactics at UNLV which gave him a talent-filled team with players the likes of Stacey Augmon and Larry Johnson. Tarkanian has defended himself and his players throughout his career amid the scandals, arrests, drug problems, and generally bad press that they have received. None of it seemed to phase him at any point, making him one of the most hated figures in college sports. That all changed last week. Not the part about him being hated, mind you. Most people still think he’s a complete scumbag, and they may be right. But this reporter is willing to give him another chance. No one makes a career move of this caliber and moves down on the coaching ladder without a serious ethical reason.No Wildcat coach in recent memory has had to travel to the penitentiary to bail out a player. Plus, the players are intellectually on par with the league, major conferences, and schools across the nation have recognized Davidson as the spearhead of this new movement, which will lead to an NCAA totally devoid of recruiting violations or immoral players. Is this expecting too much, you ask? Not at all. The former archetypal dirty coach has now become the poster boy for the squeaky clean program. As Davidson’s program succeeds, so will the new movement in the sport. But it’s going to take all of us. The student body must pledge its full support at all times. The team cannot do it without us. Together, we can clean up college basketball. Together, we can make that change.

Senior David Jackson tackles the Vermonster
By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

On Monday, Apr. 27, the Davidson Crew team took their first team training trip to Ben and Jerry’s. Team members took turns working their way through a 20-scoop-plus-toppings Vermonster. Due to limited funding for transportation, the team walked to Ben and Jerry’s, located on the corner of Main Street. Approximately 80 percent of the team attended the one-hour intensive workout. Freshman rower Emmett Weindruch, who financed the trip, saw the event as closure for the season. “It was great to see the team really come together and support one another,” said Weindruch. “I never before realized the energy and commitment required to take such a trip. Next year I'd like us to really work towards two Vermonsters.”

Jon Dickens, freshman rower and club vice president, commented on the occasion as more of a statement towards next season. “I think our new freshmen next year need to have a better understanding of what they’re committing to,” said Dickens. “We really want them to understand the time and intensity they’re signing up for. This event is just one of many that exemplifies the dedication this team possesses.”

Senior David Jackson was named “Best All-Around” for having flung the most ice cream on himself and the floor. His emotional response touched team members. “I'd like to thank everyone who helped me reach this goal — Emmett, who paid for this trip with his own hard-earned gift certificates; Liz, who left the voicemail; Stephanie, who fed me down to the very last drop; and finally, the girl behind the counter who watched in utter horror as we rearranged furniture and dropped whipped cream on the ground just before closing,” said Jackson. “To each and every one of you, I say thanks.”

Senior Allison Moore, a personal friend of Jackson, dried tears as she watched on. “Dave is such an amazing athlete. The way he fights to the very last drop has always impressed me, and tonight really showed that,” she said. “I’m proud to be his friend, as are we all.”

Freshman John Richardson, a veteran of Ben and Jerry’s, analyzed Jackson’s technique as some of the best work he’s ever seen. “I’ve studied Vermonster-eating at various universities and colleges, but never have I seen the reach and drive that Dave had. It’s just amazing to know he reached that point with no formal coaching. That’s raw, natural talent.”

JEFF KESSLER

Kessler began the season as the GM, manager, Jackson’s coxswain, Liz Neiheisel, said, “I’ve always known that Dave had it in him. He shows this intensity everywhere — on the erg, in his dancing — it was just a matter of time before he conquered the Vermonster.” Freshman Anna Padget summed up the feelings of all members present in watching Jackson’s feat: “It’s a great day to be a Wildcat!”

Lynching Tuesday * 7:00
Baseball vs. UNC-Asheville, 3:00

The only serious part of this paper, p. 7
Chris Stec signed to replace Spreewell, p. 9

batting coach, promoter, sponsor, equipment supplier, and lead-off hitter for his team. In the season opener, he showed his offensive skill by garnering base hits from both sides of the plate. Defensively, he recovered well by continuously sprinting into the woods to retrieve balls thrown over his head by inept infielders. Kessler led his team to a second-place finish in the contest and also gained bragging rights over his roommate who somehow managed to strike out.

Watch everything unfold as multiple angry sports teams who are not happy with the coverage that their respective sports have received collectively draw and quarter the former Davidsonian sports editor. Look, dammit, if you don’t like the picture of you that we take the time and energy to go to Sports Information and get and then scan and put in the paper then go talk to your coaches because they have to worry about taking the pictures so they can make the stupid media guides in the first place so get off of my back, alright? Thank you very much.