By Ep Pace
Staff Writer

In their new movie, “The Big Lebowski,” Joel and Ethan Coen bring us the story of “The Dude.” These are
the same brothers who have written, directed, and produced such excellent and intricate (but wacky) stories as “Raising Arizona” and
“Fargo.” I am a huge fan of both of these films and was looking forward to this one. The Coens
are not ones to get stuck in a rut with their writing and “The Big Lebowski” is pretty far from
the stylings of “Fargo.”

This time, the Coens have swapped the snowy wastelands of North Dakota for the sunny climate of Los Angeles. Here
they have developed a complicated story involving two bowling-loving, beer-swilling losers — Jeff Lebowski, better known as “The Dude” (Jeff
Bridges), and his best friend, Walter (John Goodman). (Also appearing is a ravishing Juliette Moore.) While the Coens’ unpredictable, ridiculously
complex, and consistently funny plot line is one of the film’s greatest virtues, most of its pleasures lie within the
cast of colorful characters.

Standing first and foremost is the easily excitable Walter, prone to violent outbursts and suspicious of just about everyone. John
Goodman, in the film’s standout performance, brings him to life with appropriate bluster without going too far; he has a
very quick temper, but he’s a very loyal and helpful friend. There are, difficult as it may be to believe,
two Jeff Lebowskis living in the greater Los Angeles area. There’s the rich, shady one (David Huddleston) ensconced in a
Pasadena mansion, who gives “The Big Lebowski” its title. His unemployed counterpart is “The Dude.” The Dude is a burned-out
beach bum whose mental clock stopped sometime in the ‘70s. When some nihilist thugs, mistaking him for his namesake, invade
his pad, beat him up, and, worse, ruin the rug that ties the whole living room together, he seeks redress.
Or at least some replacement carpetry.

Permit me to quote the official “Big Lebowski” website (www.lebowski.com) for some inspiration about the role marijuana plays in the
film. “A nice, round, well-packed, evenly burning joint is like a divining rod to the subtle nuances behind reality —
an eternal flame dedicated to the resplendence of chemically enhanced leisure.” The Dude is king of the relaxed lifestyle and
reaps the benefits of a chemically induced indifference to the world.

This is a movie I enjoyed; even without a serious plot, it is an enjoyable tale. As long as you
can sit back, marvel at the characters the Coens have concocted and enjoy a good story, you’ll probably be able
to enjoy the movie. Better yet, taken as one giant trip, it’s actually quite good. Grade: B+

Bridges (left) and Goodman

TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1998

Woodwind and Jazz Ensembles infuse Love Auditorium
By Lee Ann Petty
Guest Writer

While Davidson choral students were traveling on a choir tour to New York and Davidson Outdoors participants were sunning in
the Keys, the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra and Jazz Ensemble were enjoying their annual spring tour. This year, conductor William
Lawing, chair of Davidson’s Music department, guided his musicians on a tour of South Carolina and Georgia, performing classical music
and jazz concerts in churches in Columbia and Charleston, S.C., and Savannah and Augusta, Ga. The orchestra and jazz ensemble
concluded their spring tour Wednesday night, Mar. 11, in Love Auditorium.

Lawing began the performance Wednesday night by commenting that this concert was the “most enjoyable concert because it comes after
spring tour.” He proceeded to tell the audience that the firstHalf of the program would feature folk songs, which included
“Sea Songs” by Ralph Vaughan Williams (conducted by senior music major Erika Rissing), “Netherlands Suite” by Hank van Lijnschooten, and
“Songs of the West” by Gustav Holst. The orchestra rose to the challenge of performing these intricate musical works, engaging
the audience with strong dynamics, a rich tone, and a beautiful blend of sounds and instrumentation. Also impressive was the
orchestra’s confidence as they played the pieces and their understanding and interpretation of the music as a whole, which they
communicated well to the audience.

The second half of the concert featured the Davidson Jazz Ensemble playing nine jazz selections from the Swing Era. The
jazz portion of the program was very enjoyable, as the ensemble played with a definite rhythm, a clear, vibrant sound,
and an enthusiastic demeanor. The ensemble was composed of a strong brass section and a dynamic drummer, bass player, and
electric guitarist, who each helped maintain the jazz rhythm. Jazz pieces included “The Amazing Dr. Cold Nut” by Dick Garretson,
“Birdland” by Josef Zawinul, “Blues Dance” by Al Cobine, and “No Mystery” by Chick Corea. Soloists showcasing their excellent musical
skills were Derek Kverno and David Rissing on sax, Andrew Oster and Anna Hathaway on trombone, Tom Vanderbloemen on trumpet,
Chad Diamond on bass, Ross Hagan on guitar, Brenda Bondessen on keyboard, and Aaron Patton on drums/percussion. The jazz selections
were an excellent conclusion to the concert. As freshman John Kenyon summarized the evening, “The performance was superb. To try
to articulate the experience is near to impossible without witnessing it firsthand.”

In addition to the Davidson students in the orchestra and jazz ensemble, professors Greta Munger, David Grant, and Mauro Botelho
were a welcome addition to the performance. The professors also toured with the students on the spring tour. Lawing commented
on the talented freshmen in the orchestra, remarking that they are full of “energy and enthusiasm.” He also mentioned that
this hard-working group of students does not receive enough recognition for their wonderful playing. Students and faculty who missed the
concert on Mar. 11 will be able to hear the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra on Apr. 9 at 8:00 PM
in Love Auditorium. Additionally, the Jazz Ensemble will be playing the night before graduation.

11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Philosophy speaker. 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room. Thaddeus
Kelly, M.D. Speaker. 7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room. Project Life Tournament. Sing “I love it when you
call me Big Papa” when you play the Ace of Spades. Drives the opposition nuts. 7:00 - 10:00 p.m. at
the Outpost. Take Back the Night. Rape victims speak out. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. at the Vail Commons Patio. Liederabend.
At Davidson, that’s German for “Voice recital.” 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. at the Guest House. CROP Lunch. Reap the bountiful
harvest, sow some friends. Cheap Donuts. A great use for spare change. 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. in the Union
Lobby. Tye-dye with Ada Jenkins. I hear she can tye-dye like a champion. 3:30 - 5:30 p.m. on Chambers Lawn.
Friday Afternoon Club. Beer, on a Friday afternoon? Why not? 4:30 - 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. IVCF Bible
Study. Bring your NRSV. 4:30 - 5:45 p.m. in the Wilson Room. “Heathers.” Even better the second time around. 9:30
p.m. in the 900 Room. Vernal Equinox Experience. The event with the coolest name this week. 9:00 p.m. - 12:00
a.m. at the Outpost. Multicultural Kids’ Day. Does “multicultural” refer to the kids or to the day? We'll have to
go to find out. 10:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. at Johnston Gym. Room in the Inn. An overnight, “Hoosiers” style.
Starting at 4:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Juggling. The only class where you can throw things at the teacher. 3:00
- 5:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room. St. John Passion. That's all they told us. 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. in
the DCPC Sanctuary. Jumpin’ Java. Without cheese bagels or quesadillas, it’s the Outpost “au naturel.” 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Dr. Phillip Pomper. Speaker. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room. Dr. Parisi. Speaker. 4:00 - 5:00 p.m. in
the Morrison Room. Phi Beta Kappa Initiation. 6:00 p.m. in Phi Hall. Oscar Party. See the ad on page 2
for more information. 7:45 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room. Wissam Boustany. He plays the flute; he is
a flautist. He is Wissam the Flautist.
