As next Monday's school-wide elections approach, the Elections Committee and the staff of the Davidsonian have worked to produce this
special issue of the Davidsonian in order to give the students a chance to meet their candidates. Each candidate was
required to answer questions that were posed both by the Elections Committee and by those who hold the office which
the candidates seek. The ATC Vice Chair has only this chance to campaign. The other candidates are using this opportunity
to share their plans with the student population.

The elections this year will be conducted in a different manner as the ballots will be processed by ScanTron. This
new method will hopefully reduce counting errors and cut down on the time in between the closing of elections and
the notification of runoffs. Enjoy this special feature and please stop by one of the voting tables in either the
Commons or in Chambers to vote for the future leaders of important student organizations.

— Matt West

PRESIDENT

1. The position of SGA President requires much more than boardroom experience. Not only does the president need patience, organizational
skills, and strong leadership abilities, but also he/she must have certain natural intangibles: unwavering enthusiasm, persistent drive, and selfless willingness
to defend students’ concerns. My service in the SGA Senate, although brief, was substantial because I gained first-hand knowledge of
the bureaucracy that stalls constructive proposals. Through dedicated service as an athlete, hall counselor, member of Patterson Court, and community
volunteer, I have learned to promote action and accomplish initiating a restructuring renaissance focusing on reducing the number of committees,
diversifying people on each committee, implementing and fostering mechanisms for student input, and identifying goals and initiatives vital to the
student population. The SGA can increase its accreditation with the Board of Trustees, the administration, and the faculty, becoming a
more effective and subsequently more powerful governing force in the future.

2. The SGA President must be a highly visible/approachable member of the college community. Through my diverse campus experiences, I
interact with multiple student groups in a variety of environments. As President Vagt has promoted support for Davidson’s extra-curricular activities
through his participation, I will motivate students to cherish college events by my endless involvement in Davidson’s athletics, social, and
cultural facets, as well as in SGA activities.

3. Clearly, my perceived weakness is a lack of SGA boardroom experience. However, I feel that this exclusion from the
entrenched SGA elite will enable me to provide new energy and ideas to a group that has, justly or unjustly,
gained a reputation as a stagnant bureaucracy that is removed from the student population.

4. The SGA must be prepared to more efficiently analyze students’ concerns in the 21st century. By initiating a restructuring
renaissance focusing on reducing the number of committees, diversifying people on each committee, implementing and fostering mechanisms for student input,
and identifying goals and initiatives vital to the student population, the SGA can increase its accreditation with the Board of
Trustees, the administration, and the faculty, becoming a more effective and subsequently more powerful governing force in the future.

5. I envision a Davidson that is willing to acknowledge and be proud of its time-honored past while actively embracing
changes that will enhance Davidson's image in the 21st century.

Daniel Cowan

1. Currently, I serve as the SGA Vice President and have also served as Sophomore Class President and a Freshman
Class Senator. I am a member of the CCRL, the Student Conduct Council, and the Priorities Planning Group. Also, I
have been the Chairperson of the Charters and Bylaws Committee and the SGA Leadership Committee.

2. Active recruitment of students for the 20 committees and councils, better publicity of SGA events, and stronger senator-constituent relations.

3. By not being entrenched in the current SGA bureaucracy, I am well suited and willing to adapt the SGA
into an efficient body which ensures that the college remembers who Davidson is (e.g., veterans, civil servants, administrators, professors, etc.)
while continuing to solve students’ problems and needs well into the 21st century.

4. Every member of Davidson College’s student body is a participant in SGA. The SGA President should not be seen
as the leader of an exclusive club, but rather a stand-up facilitator who relates to, and therefore can sufficiently represent,
a vast majority of Davidson’s students. Davidson's diversified constituency should be represented not only in weekly SGA meetings, but also
in meetings with the Board of Trustees, the administration, and the faculty. As a dedicated athlete, hall counselor, community service
activist, member of Patterson Court, and student, I feel that I have experienced and embody several aspects of a Davidson
College student that are treasured.

5. A more unified and active, yet diverse, Davidson. I would continue to work to strengthen the SGA’s Solidarity Committee
and the Council on Minority Affairs. I would also promote greater student use of the SGA as a forum to
implement change.

6. I have trouble thinking and leading politically. To me, the SGA is not a strict political body. It is
simply an agency for concerned students to sort out solutions.

Ann Harriott Fisher

1. Commitment to the SGA, knowledge of the system, accessibility to students, and a strong working relationship with senators and
administrators. I have been involved with the SGA in many capacities for 2 1/2 years. I know the system and
I know the issues. I have the experience and I have the dedication. I would love to continue to represent
the student body.
