THE DAVIDSONIAN - Project Life conducts annual

© By Ketts HETHERINGTON : Staff Writer

Since Professor of History Robert Williams stepped down, Davidson College has been searching for a new Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty. The VPAA Search Committee is chaired by Davidson Professor of Economics David Martin, and the College has contracted AT Kearney, Inc., a Virginia-based executive search firm, to help with the search. The committee and firm expect to release an announcement naming the new VPAA by July 1, 1999. During the interim, Clark Ross, Chair of the Economics Department, has been acting VPAA. Williams is currently on sabbatical and will return next year to the History Department.

According to the College’s advertisement on its website, the responsibilities of Davidson’s VPAA include leading the faculty, periodically evaluating faculty members “as teaching scholars,” and “managing the office of Academic Affairs.” The VPAA also has fiscal responsibilities: He or she “helps in the analyzing and presenting of budgetary issues facing the College”; collaborates “with the College’s other” chief administrators “in setting policies and procedures in all areas of the institution”; and works with the Board of Visitors.

Davidson is not alone in its search for a new VPAA. Lake Erie College in Ohio, William Tyndale College in Michigan, and Westminster College in Missouri are also looking for VPAA and have also placed advertisements in “The Chronicle of Higher Education.” Even though the positions appear to be identical, each job entails different responsibilities. For the VPAAs at both Davidson and Westminster, proficiency in finance matters is recommended because in both of these positions the VPAA has some budgetary management responsibilities, but the positions are not the same. For example, a prerequisite to being VPAA at Westminster is “demonstrated knowledge of accreditation procedures and (of related issues).”

Responding to the question as to what weight gender and race will receive in choosing the new VPAA, Martin said, “We will recommend to President Vagt the best set of candidates independent of race and gender.” Martin then continued, “We recognize that the diversity of our recommendations depends upon the diversity of the pool of attractive candidates. We are working diligently to increase the diversity of that pool. This year, we extended our advertising and recruiting efforts to try to expand the pool of attractive candidates. In particular, instead of advertising only in ‘The Chronicle of Higher Education,’ we advertised in ‘Black Issues in Higher Education,’ ‘Hispanic Outlook,’ ‘Women in Higher Education,’ and ‘Women’s Review of Books.’ Also, one of our bases for our decision to hire AT Kearney was our confidence in their ability to broaden the diversity of the pool of attractive candidates.” Martin added that he was “very pleased with (AT Kearney’s) work.”

On the Davidson College web page’s advertisement for the VPAA position, the question of salary is addressed in large bold print in the bottom left-hand corner and reads “Compensation: open and competitive.” Martin explained, “The salary and benefits are competitive with the market. As it would with any other faculty member, the College provides assistance with renting and housing in the first few years and provides some tuition benefits.”

Robert Kaffer, who works with Higher Education Administrative Search of Denver, the firm contracted by Lake Erie College, suggested that the College and University Personnel Association handbook be consulted. The 1997-1998 CUPA handbook reported that the median salary for VPAAs at 85 reporting institutions with operating budgets of $38.6 million, which is approximately Davidson College’s operating budget, to be: $111,500. Bill Pannapacker, a Harvard graduate student, maintains a web page on higher education. He speculated, “The salary for a VP for Academic Affairs probably varies from $30,000 to $100,000 a year, depending on the size of the institution.”

GREAT OPPORTUNITY

Would you like to earn extra cash? Add to your current resume? Information Technology Services (ITS) is seeking to employ student consultants to work at the ITS Help Desk. The Help Desk takes software and hardware questions regarding standard computer hardware and supported software on campus by phone and email. Our clients are students, faculty, and staff at Davidson College. The current Help Desk hours are 8:30-12:30 and 1:30-5:00 Monday through Friday. If you are interested, please call Debbie Alford ext. 2292 or email dealford@davidson.edu.

GOOD WEEKLY INCOME processing mail for a national company! Free supplies, postage! No selling! Bonuses! Start immediately! Genuine opportunity! Please rush Long Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope to:

MPC, SUITE 391
2045 Mt. Zion Rd
MORROW, GA 30260Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

For information and application, contact Hood College, 401 Rosemont Avenue, Frederick, MD 21701-8575. Phone: 301-696-3599. Fax: 301-696-3952. E-mail: strashourg@hood.edu. Web Site: www.hood.edu.

Université de Strasbourg - The heart of the European Union, site of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, center of commerce.

The Alsace Region - One of the most beautiful and historic of the French provinces. An excellent location close to Germany and Switzerland. Numerous travel opportunities.

The University - One of the oldest in the French university system with an enrollment of several thousand international students and more than 50,000 French students.

The City - A 2,000-year-old city with ancient architecture, cultural and commerce centers, and a political, economic, and international community.

Language and Culture - French and German.

Admission: Open to men and women undergraduates from accredited colleges and universities.

Requirements: Students are accepted from any major provided they have an appropriate French language background.

Plan of Study: Orientation/intensive French language instruction. One semester or one year of credit-bearing courses at the Université de Strasbourg. Internships arranged.

Financial Aid: Scholarships available to qualified students. Apply by: Nov. 15 for Spring 1999; March 15 for Fall 1999.

Project Life - Full array of programs. Bone marrow typing drive.

Project Life from page one: “still hoping for a grant or endowment,” and Bond was excited about the possibility of a corporate donor to match the organization’s funds. If Project Life can find enough money in the future, Bond would like to extend the program into the community. She wants to target minority donors since a large need for minority donors exists. Still, Bond said that Project Life’s “primary purpose is Davidson College students. The extension depends upon our financial situation.”

Bond explained that Project Life’s fundraising is “ongoing.” To keep the organization active in the spring when it “normally kind of disappears,” Bond is planning fund-raisers and educational programs. A Bowl-A-Thon is included in possible programs for next semester.

Despite the lower turnout, Bond was pleased with the drive. She said, “On behalf of Project Life, thanks to everyone who donated. Even if it wasn’t a high number this year, at least that’s 205 more people on the registry. Any number is a success.”

Project Life was formed by Davidson students in 1989, and it is the first such college organization in the United States. Since then, many students have donated. Next semester, a student is donating bone marrow, and two students have been called for the primary steps so that they may become donors.

Memo from the Registrar:

TO: Faculty and Students
FROM: Polly Griffin and Tom Shandley
RE: Examinations

As the end of the semester and final examinations approach, we remind you that the Academic Regulations allow an instructor to “authorize a student to postpone an examination for cause, i.e., when the circumstances involved are beyond the reasonable control of the student.” (The Red Book, 1998-1999, p. 55-56). In order to ensure consistency, fairness, and the integrity of the Honor Code, we ask that students and faculty follow these guidelines when postponing an examination.

1. When the student is to take the examinations after grades are due, the instructor must sign a Form for Issuing an Incomplete (available in the Registrar’s Office). The instructor submits a grade of “I” and designates the due date on the Incomplete Form. The due date can be no later than Aug. 11, 1999.

2. When the student is to take the examination at home, the exam is mailed to the student’s home by the instructor or the Dean of Students. The student completes the examination at home under the regulations applicable during the campus examination period. For example, the student will work no more than 3.5 hours. The student sends the completed exam directly to the professor. We recommend to the student that photocopies be made and the original be sent by registered mail to protect against misdirected or lost mail.

3. When the student is to take the examination at the Student Health Center, the instructor delivers the exam to the Center and picks it up upon completion. The student takes the exam under the regulations applicable during the campus examination period.

Please note:
1. Students may not remove an examination envelope from Chambers.
2. Students may not carry an examination home.
3. Roommates or friends may not deliver examinations to another student.
4. Only “take home” examinations may be completed in a residence hall room.

Hood College actively subscribes to a policy of equal educational and employment opportunities.