THE DAVIDPHONIAN
By Bratton Homes
Sports Editor

MVP Awards
Addam Marcotte
Brent Ferrell
Thomas McElveen

Through the indoor and outdoor seasons, this trio has been the backbone of the team, recording the team’s best times
in most events. Marcotte specialized in the shorter events, competing in everything from the 55 to 400 runs. McElveen ran
the middle distance events, especially the 800, mile, and 1,500. Ferrell excelled in the distance runs, posting his best times
in the 3,000 and 5,000.

In the indoor season, one of the men had the team’s best time in four events and the team’s second
best in two others. The remaining three events are the 55, 300, and 500. None of the trio had the
team’s best times in these events simply because none of them competed in them. They dominated the events in which
they competed throughout the indoor and outdoor seasons. In the outdoor season, one of the three was first or second
in every track event, except for the steeplechase in which none of them competed. A pattern is definitely evident in
the team’s best performance list.

In indoor, Marcotte was the team’s best runner in the 200 and was second in the 400 behind rookie Ikenna
Myers. The outdoor season brought him even more success. He was first in the 200 and 400 and second behind
Steve Hsieh in the 100m. He also led the 4x100 relay team, anchoring the team for its four best finishes
of the season.

Sophomore triumvirate leads team. Young talent evident on this season’s roster.

McElveen dominated the mile run in the indoor season. His best time was a full six seconds faster than anyone
else on the team. He also had the second-best time in the 800 behind rookie Keith Chapman. McElveen proved to
be very consistent in the outdoor season. He had the best time in the 1,500 and was second in the
800 behind, again, Chapman.

Ferrell was the only runner this season to break two Davidson records this year. He broke the 3,000 record in
the outdoor season and also became the second-best performer in school history in the 5,000. Ferrell and McElveen, along with
Ade Artis and Keith Gordon, broke the school record in the DMR in the indoor season by over five seconds.
Of all the top performers in both indoor and outdoor, only two are seniors—Hsieh and Tim O’Keefe. Marcotte, McElveen, and
Ferrell were the top performers in most events. The strongest class after the sophomores was the freshmen.

Best Rookies
Keith Chapman
Ikenna Myers

Like the trio of sophomores, Myers and Chapman complemented each other nicely. Myers ran in the sprint events, sharing the
best times with Marcotte. Chapman ran middle distance, excelling in the 800 and 1,500. In the indoor season, Myers ran
the team’s best times in the 55 and 400 and was second in the 200. All three of these times
were among the top ten times in Davidson history. In outdoor track, Myers was second on the team in the
200 run behind Marcotte. Chapman dominated the 800 in indoor and outdoor. In outdoor, Chapman posted the fourth-best time in
school history at the Southern Conference Championship. His time, less than half of a second off of the school record,
gave him a seventh-place finish in the event and the second-best time of all freshmen in the event.

Chapman was also a part of virtually every distance relay team in both seasons. He was on the team’s best
4x400 and DMR teams in the outdoor season and the best 4x400 team in indoor. Myers also added to the
relays in the indoor 4x100 and the outdoor 4x400. In his remaining three seasons at Davidson, Chapman should definitely break
the school record in the indoor and outdoor 800 runs, which have stood since 1985 and 1970 respectively.

This concludes the serious portion of the issue. We now return to our regularly scheduled publication. I apologize to those
who suffered as a result of our time shortage last week, but it was noon on Tuesday and I had
been in the Davidsonian office for nineteen consecutive hours and I was tired and wanted to go to sleep. On
a related note, if anyone ever tells me I’m doing a half-assed job, they’re going down.

Stewart finds a new calling after football
By John Homes
Sports Editor

Chip Stewart, with his 260 lb. build and his killer instincts on the gridiron, was a nightmare for opposing defenses.
At the starting center spot for the Wildcats, Stewart single-handedly destroyed defensive lines throughout his career on the Davidson football
team. His football career may continue at a higher level, but not yet. The San Francisco 49ers are in the
midst of a serious dilemma—whether to hold onto veteran center Jesse Sapolu as the backup center or to sign Stewart
to a contract for about half of what Sapolu is earning. Sapolu is a crowd favorite who has been with
the 49ers for over a decade, but he is also far past his prime and injury-prone. Stewart provides youth and
determination, two traits that have largely been absent from Candlestick Park.

Stewart is making the most of his time in limbo, however. While anxiously awaiting the verdict on his football future,
he has taken up another more obscure sport to pass the time. That sport, which is very popular in Australia
and parts of Europe but unknown to most Americans, is dwarf-tossing. It’s exactly what it sounds like. In dwarf-tossing, a
dwarf is strapped to a harness with two handles on the back. A tosser, generally a very muscular ex-lineman, grabs
the two handles and launches the dwarf as far as he can. As in the discus or shot put, the
longest throw without stepping over the line wins. In the NDTA (National Dwarf-TossingAssociation) preseason poll, Stewart is the runaway favorite
for rookie of the year honors. Though he has not yet thrown an actual dwarf in competition, Stewart feels that
he is more than ready. He said in a press conference last week, “I, Chip Stewart, haven't been able to
find a dwarf around who will let me toss him, so I’ve just been tossing some of my friends who
are really puny. I went up to Andy Fulford’s room on second Sentelle and tossed him out of his window
a few times, but then he started whining about his knee or hip or something, so I had to stop.
I tossed Sean Doyle a few times too, but he tried to toss me back. I started laughing so hard
that I had to stop for five minutes, and by then he had gone to hit on some freshman, or
maybe it was a recruit. I don’t remember.”

Stewart's average toss with a small person has been seven inches better than the NDTA average and just three inches
shy of the average of the defending champion Brian Bosworth, another college football star who looked for a career path
outside of the NFL. When Stewart has the opportunity to toss an actual dwarf, his distance should improve by at
least six inches, which would make him a contender for the title in his rookie season. That is, assuming that
the 49ers do not make a more lucrative offer. This seems unlikely at best. In the NFL, Stewart would probably
net no more than $2 million a year at first. A rookie season in the NDTA could garner him half
of that easily, plus his earnings will increase with endorsements. As one of the most promising tossers in the sport,
Nike has already offered Stewart an endorsement deal worth $2.4 million over four years. Stewart will most certainly have the
opportunity to continue his football career at the NFL level, or in a league in Canada or Europe at the
very least. The question is this—will he take it? He may, and then become just another NFL center hoping to
make it to the Pro Bowl, or he can turn it down and become the biggest thing to hit the
world of dwarf-tossing in decades.

Outlook grim for women’s track team
By JOHN HOLMES
Sports Editor

It came quickly and without warning. It was... a letter. The contents of that letter spelled doom for Davidson’s women’s
track program. The team, which has made great headway in Southern Conference competition in the past two seasons, has watched
all of their hard work go straight down the proverbial toilet. The NCAACIPRVWCCTF (National Collegiate Athletic Association Committee for the
Investigation of Possible Recruiting Violations in Women’s Cross Country and Track & Field) has investigated the Davidson program and determined
last week that violations did occur in recruiting. The investigation began last October when a track recruit returned from her
visit to Davidson and was suddenly driving a fully loaded 1997 Lexus. When the girl’s father asked if she had
stolen the car, she produced a deed and proof of insurance proving that the car was in fact hers, and
commented merely that it was “a present.” The father, who happened to be a high-ranking executive of the NCAA, reported
the incident to the NCAACIPRVWCCTF. The investigation began from there.

The deciding factor in the investigation occurred just recently. An NCAA executive, masquerading as a 17-year-old recruit, visited Davidson to
investigate potential violations. During her visit, she received as “presents” a free meal at Les Trois Faisons, a pair of
$80 Nike running shoes, and a round-trip ticket to Aruba with one-week hotel accommodations. This sealed the case for the
NCAACIPRVWCCTF, and the NCAA put Davidson on probation. The standard punishment for schools in this situation is loss of all
scholarships and exclusion from postseason play. However, Davidson offers no scholarships for women’s track and has not been to the
NCAA tournament in years. Nevertheless, application of any different punishments would have opened the NCAACIPRVWCCTF up to accusations of partiality.
The committee could not impose different punishments, so Davidson is essentially no worse off than before. Now, the NCAA will
keep a closer watch over Davidson’s recruiting policies. After the fact, the women’s track & field coaching staff sees little
need to sugar-coat the incident. Assistant Coach Thomas Cason, in his first year at Davidson, stated, “Hell yes we cheated,
but what are we supposed to do? We can’t give scholarships, so we have to find some way to get
some quality recruits here.” Cason admitted to giving away cars and plane tickets, among other presents, to recruits.

Davidsonian investigative reporters uncovered a link between Cason and Cornelius-based crime boss Guido Sarducci. Sarducci provided Cason with luxury cars
from his local chop shop. The plane tickets and hotel accommodations were originally those of a man who was trying
to leave the country to avoid Sarducci but didn’t quite make it. Sarducci apparently received nothing in return for his
services. An avid fan, he says that he did it “for the love of the sport.” Cason claims that these
recruiting policies existed at Davidson long before he arrived in August. He stated in a press conference, “Look at the
rookies we had this year. Smyth (Bitter) broke a record as a freshman. And what about Jill (Neumayer) and Clare
(Frey)? There’s no way we got them here without greasing a few palms.” The non-scholarship program, now deprived of its
most viable method of recruiting (cheating), is challenged to bring in more classes on par with this year’s. As though
finding recruits smart enough to come to Davidson isn’t hard enough already, now the staff will have to look for
runners who don’t need that extra bit of encouragement either.
