THE WOMEN’S CAPTAINS 1998-99 WILDCAT BASKETBALL

Climbing the league mountain
Seniors stretch for goals, records
By Bo Krift
Staff Writer

The women’s basketball class of 1999 can achieve an unprecedented feat this year. Since the program’s inaugural season in 1973,
a player has not graduated from Davidson and experienced four consecutive winning seasons. This year, Jessica Montrella, Kerry Brown, and
Jamie Brown are poised to conquer this record. The class enters the 1999 season with 47 career wins. Since their
arrival upon campus, the total victories each year have set a new Davidson single-season record, which stands at 18. But
the senior class wants more.

“Everything comes down to three games in the end,” Montrella said. “We want to win the conference tournament and go
to the NCAAs.”

Coach John Filar knows how much the tournament berth means to this class. “The pressure I feel is that I
want to get to the tournament for the seniors,” he said. “The seniors have met all the expectations asked of
them, except one — getting to play in the tournament in March.”

The class of 1999 entered Davidson as the best recruiting class ever and expectations immediately surmounted. “We were still growing
as players, and Coach Filar put us in the game knowing we had to learn through experience,” Kerry Brown said.

Now more comfortable with Filar’s system, they recognize they have to lead by example. “As a senior, I realize I
have the most experience and have to help the freshmen,” captain Jamie said. “We are less petty now. I want
the team to learn and always get better.”

The seniors understand this year’s freshmen might feel frustrated like they did in 1995-96. “We've tried to add more enthusiasm
and communication this year,” Jamie said. “We feed off the enthusiasm as much as they do.”

Photo by Davidson Sports Information
Jamie Brown, co-captain of the women’s basketball team along with junior Jen O’Brien, is one reason the Wildcats are favorites
to go to their first NCAAs.

Filar and the entire staff trust the seniors and junior captain Jen O’Brien as leaders. “Our captains (O’Brien and Jamie
Brown) are fantastic leaders on and off the court,” Filar said. “Jess and Kerry are two additional leaders with experience.
This year is the perfect year to have a big freshman class because of their leadership.”

In the past seasons, injuries prevented the Wildcats, especially the senior class, from maximizing their full potential. They expect nothing
but the best this year as they look for their first invitation to dancing madness. “I expect a cohesive group
that dominates game play,” Montrella said. “Unfortunately, last year, we didn’t have as strong of a core as we could
have with all of the injuries stopping our progress.”

The Southern Conference coaches named O’Brien the pre-season player of the year, and selected Kerry Brown and Montrella as all-conference.
Although recognized as top players in the league, they remember what has to be done as a team. “The players
on this team know their specific roles and we all play in them,” O’Brien said. “We are all trying to
be our best and when we play our best we'll go far as a team.”

Wildcats put Aussies down under, 78-76

The women’s basketball team defeated Australia-Victoria 78-76 Saturday on a Jamie Brown put-back at the end of regulation. After squandering
a six-point lead with 2:19 left in the game, the Wildcats had the ball with eight seconds remaining in a
76-76 game. Jamie Brown paced the Wildcats with 16 points, 11 rebounds, three assists, and three steals. Jen O’Brien added
14 points, eight rebounds, and six assists. Kerry Brown and Jessica Montrella also scored in double figures with 12 and
10 points, respectively. Kamp had a big game inside, scoring nine points and grabbing 10 rebounds. Magette was impressive, showing
that she can provide the team with scoring and defense off the bench in the backup point guard role.

“I was pleased with the effort and how well we ran the court,” Filar said. “This was a team that
we knew nothing about coming into the game, but they were a good team. They would probably beat three or
four teams in our conference so it was encouraging to play as well as we did with only two weeks
of practice.”

Tripp CHERRY

THE WOMEN’S SCHEDULE
Women face SW Mo. St., Tech, Wake
By Tripp CHERRY
Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team has no time to waste. After the exhibition season ends Nov. 8, the Wildcats will prepare
to head to Springfield, Mo., to face Southwest Missouri State in the preseason National Invitational Tournament. SWMS’s arena, which fills
to a capacity 9,000 spectators on a nightly basis, is regarded as one of the toughest places in the country
in which to play.Play women’s basketball. “The invitation to the preseason NIT is a huge compliment to our program,” coach
John Filar said. “It should be a great environment for us to be in.” On the same night that the
men’s team opens against Duke at the Charlotte Coliseum, the women face Wake Forest in Winston-Salem. After the two tough
road trips to open the season, the Wildcats come home for a nine-game home stretch from Nov. 21 to Dec.
30. The first game of the home stretch pits Davidson against Georgia Tech, whose Yellow Jackets fell to the Wildcats
in Atlanta last December. The Wildcats then have an early conference matchup with Chattanooga on Nov. 28 followed by a
visit from Mecklenburg rival UNC Charlotte on Dec. 1. Filar’s crew knocked off the 49ers last year at Halton Arena.

Kerry Brown (left) and Jessica Montrella, two of Davidson’s three seniors this season, lead the women’s hoopsters into perhaps the
program’s strongest schedule ever. The Wildcats open in the preseason NIT versus Southwest Missouri State at Springfield, Mo. On Dec.
5 and 6, Davidson hosts the Chesebrough-Ponds Davidson Roundball Invitational. Davidson will face Bucknell in the first round, and then
play either East Carolina or Elon. The Wildcats then host Sewanee on Dec. 8 before continuing conference play on Dec.
20 versus the College of Charleston. The women have an extremely important road game in Statesboro, Ga., on Jan. 6
against league rival Georgia Southern. The Wildcats’ season came to a heart-breaking end two seasons ago in Statesboro, and they
haven’t forgotten. Other big games include a road match against UNCG, the team that eliminated the Wildcats last year, on
Jan. 9. On Jan. 25, Georgia Southern comes to Belk for a crucial conference matchup, and on Feb. 8, UNCG
will be in town. The Wildcats close out the regular season at home against Wofford on Feb. 20, before heading
to Greensboro for the Southern Conference tournament. This year’s Southern Conference race could involve as many as six teams down
the stretch, so every game on the conference schedule is important. “The conference is very competitive right now,” Filar said,
“so we have to have our A game every night.”

Photos by Davidson Sports Information

For women, first NCAA tournament trip within reach

Women’s Outlook from front page should all see significant minutes this year. The program also brought in a large rookie
class. “We started the program,” coach John Filar said. “We started winning when they got here. If they can all
stay healthy this year, which has never happened, then we will be in good shape.” With O’Brien, the three seniors,
and junior Katy Kamp, the Wildcats return the bulk of their scoring from last year. The Browns combined to tally
nearly 21 points a contest. Montrella averaged 12.2 points per game, and Kamp chipped in at 10.6. “Katy is stepping
into some huge shoes with the loss of Jennie Vanlerberghe to graduation,” Filar said, “but she is quite capable of
having a huge year.” The Wildcats also have a strong sophomore class that will be counted on off the bench,
as JoAnne Hassel, Kim Taylor, and Jessica Heath should all see significant minutes this year. The program also brought in
a large rookie class as well. Kelly Copland, Janna Magette, Leah Uhernik, D’Erica Taylor, and Bethany Schott will all contribute
in their first year of college basketball. “Last year’s class was the first class that didn’t have to contribute right
away,” Filar explained. “This year’s class will be expected to contribute as early and often as possible. These are the
girls that will fill the senior spots next year. One of the big keys for us this year is going
to be how well the freshmen and sophomores adjust and contribute off the bench. It is important that we don’t
lose quality when we substitute.”

Filar, entering his seventh season at the helm, will likely see one of the closest races he has seen in
the Southern Conference. As many as six teams could be in the thick of things come February.

THE 1998-99 WILDCATS

No. Name Pos. Ht. Yr.
4 Carter Kelly G 5-7 So.
10 JoAnne Hassel G 5-8 So.
11 Kim Taylor C 6-3 So.
12 Jennifer O'Brien G 5-6 Sr.
15 Kelly Copland G 6-0 Fr.
20 Janna Magette G 5-8 Fr.
23 Jamie Brown G 5-11 Sr.
25 Leah Uhernik F 5-11 Fr.
30 D’Erica Taylor G 5-9 Fr.
32 Kerry Brown G 5-11 Sr.
33 Jessica Montrella F 6-2 Sr.
34 Katy Kamp F 6-1 Jr.
40 Bethany Schott F 6-0 Fr.
52 Jessica Heath C 6-3 So.

“The conference is very competitive right now,” he said. “We used to be the off night for the other teams
in the conference. Now, there is no off night.” Indeed, Filar’s Wildcats have come so far in such a short
period of time. From Southern doormat to Southern favorite. And they’re not done yet.
