8 THE DAVIDSONIAN Op-ED | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1998

The ultimate college fun: Road tripping

A few days ago my friend and I experienced a very important aspect of college life... that’s right, we went on a road trip. Can I have a “hell yeah”?! Road trips bring to mind Route 66 and finding one’s self; this road trip was not about that. For this very vital excursion, we went in search of civilization’s staple, the greatest invention of mankind, (no, not a Styrofoam cooler)—a Sega. Now, I’m talking about a good old Sega Genesis, not a new-fangled Playstation with all its buttons, or a Nintendo 45 or whatever. I’m talking about a better age when we were all young. Mind you, a Sega is not an ultra-modern machine, but it has the essential qualities: Madden football and Golden Axe.

So, we hopped into my thundering steed and high-tailed it into the big city of Charlotte, looking for a Sega. We looked high (Best Buy) and low (pawnshops), desperately searching to quench our video gaming needs. You see, video games are a bonding issue for men; they establish the dominant member of the hall by laying down who’s the biggest stud at computer football. It seems childish, and it is, but it’s real damn fun. After all, what’s the point of video games if you can’t brag, gloat, and make Deion Sanders look like a choirboy? I played high school football, but I blocked so I never got a chance to score a touchdown in real life....BUT!!!! In Madden, I can run up the score and do all the celebrating I want. Apparently, my funky chicken and Lambo-leap are average, but my Icky shuffle is magnificent. Oh well, that’s what college is about, getting better.

Oh, back to the road trip... Well, we ended up spending less than $80 and got a Sega, controllers, 9 games, and a large Jolt cola. So any correlation between my grades dropping and the Sega is, of course, completely coincidental and no fault of my own. What makes road trips so fun is the complete lack of planning, “Dude, we need a Sega.” To which I answer, “Hell Yeah! Let’s go,” and we’re off on I-77. Come to think of it, all male decisions are made like this: the President says, “Let's bomb Terrorists,” to which his advisors answer, “Hell Yeah! Hurry up though, it’s BBQ tonight.”

Driving is the fun part of the road trip, although the guys with the NASCAR stickers are generally a lot more fun to ride with—just ask my companion. Nothing annoys me quite as much as having a Dale Earnhardt fan pass me. Why? Because I’m a die-hard Jeff Gordon fan and I’ve gotta defend that sticker on the back of my car. After all, if you don’t know where you’re going, you might as well be going fast and having fun.

Another thing about road trips—a radar detector is a must. Without it, you’re prey to some Davidson-hating, donut-munching, state trooper, whose—for all practical purposes—only meaning in life is to run your insurance up. Anyway, it makes you look cool to have an electronic gizmo hanging out of your car, especially ones that go “beep...beep...BEEP!!!”

Another must-have on a road trip is the correct music; R&B, Jazz, and soft rock aren't allowed. You need energy-pumping tunes such as classic rock by titans of the music industry like Guns & Roses. “Welcome to the Jungle” on I-85, it’s just great, although the music you listen to is directly proportional to your speed. If you're listening to a slow, sad George Strait song, you won't be violating any laws; on the other hand, if you’re cruising down the road jamming to Metallica, be prepared to make some new friends in the state law enforcement area.

Well, that was my first college road trip. I can’t wait for more, but one thing’s for certain: You just got to have some fun, after all what's college about? ....that’s right... SEGA!!!

Bleacher seats and the ability of a worthy idea cushion to sit on for the remainder of the game.

I visited Boston this summer and had the opportunity to attend a sweltering, August night game at Fenway Park—the home-standing Red Sox versus the visiting Minnesota Twins. As the humidity enveloped me, I was struck with few profound thoughts beyond my desire for a cushion to sit on for the remainder of the game. The Red Sox, my favorite baseball team, were winning handily while the Twins attempted to mount a late-inning comeback.

At every sports event I have been to recently, and therefore those that I can remember, the crowd has performed “the wave”—you know “THE WAVE.” It begins small, usually during a lull in play, fueled by Queen’s “We Will Rock You” blaring in the background. However, at this particular baseball game, the nationally, and probably internationally-known phenomenon of “arm-waving exuberance” began as the Red Sox’s lumbering, power-hitting first baseman stepped up to the plate with the bases loaded. Although the batter was saddled with two outs (and eventually struck out to end the inning), that was not what I noticed. Rather, I began to cast looks over my shoulder, amused by the feeble attempts the “bleacher bums” were making, over and over again, trying to produce a stadium-wide show of support for the home team.

One man stood apart from the rest of the fans for he stood in front of several thousand people, repeatedly crouching and then throwing his entire body skyward, finally in a drawn-out “whoooo000.” This man had the charisma and definitely the energy to lead the entire stadium in a “wave,” but his timing could not have been worse. The sell-out crowd, less a few hundred fans like me who were watching this incredible display, stared intently at home plate and at the drama that was unfolding on the field. After two or three attempts, each one tapering off several rows away, these people, too, transferred their attention back to the game. Later, after the game, I got to thinking how common the “wave man” truly is, how timing is everything and how specific environment and presentation are crucial. Even better, the Red Sox won.

Last week retired Supreme Court Justice Louis Powell died of pneumonia at the age of 90. I will always remember Justice Powell as the swing vote on the Court that was responsible for one of the greatest injustices in the history of this country. Since the civil rights laws were passed in 1964, establishing the right of all people to equal justice, we have grown so accustomed to this that it is now commonplace to see discrimination against white males who are denied such rights. Today, discrimination against white males is rampant throughout our society. From school admissions, to scholarship awards, to business recruiting policies, to job promotions, white males are routinely discriminated against.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Hard under the law, there have been those who have attempted to use these laws as a cover for inflicting racism and discrimination against white males. Quietly, programs and policies began to sprout up all over the country giving preferences of one kind or another to women and minorities. Even though such policies flew in the face of the civil rights laws, they were allowed to continue. What Judge Louis Powell and the Supreme Court did in 1978 (through the Bakke decision and later through the Weber decision) was to give legal sanction to these racist policies. The Supreme Court basically established two classes of individuals in this country: women and minorities who are accorded unconditional protection from discrimination in all facets of society.

In interviews taken since the 1978 rulings, Justice Powell expressed surprise that these affirmative action decisions caused so little uproar among American white males. I suppose he felt we accepted them because we knew we were guilty and deserving of punishment. It is time that this complacency end. Americans of all classes who believe in true justice should stand up and demand that discrimination be ended once and for all. Through the political process, through political protest, and through organizations such as the American Civil Rights Coalition based in Sacramento, we must stand up together and demand an end to this filthy legacy of “Justice” Louis Powell.

Phrases from our modern culture

While sitting in my English class the other day, my professor, Tim (who I still want to one day come into class and say, “I am a professor, but there are those who call me Tim.”), said something that struck me as strange. I suddenly realized that there are a myriad of things that people say without ever considering where they come from or what happened to them. The phrase that Tim the Professor said was, “Well, there’s more than one way to skin a cat,” and it suddenly dawned on me, who skins a cat? There is no time in history that I can think of where people needed to skin cats either for warmth or food. Come to think of it, most cats are fairly scrawny and although their coats are soft, are only large enough to make a bonnet for a small child. Understand that when I say small I’m talking about if Mary Lou Retton and the guy who played Willow were to have a kid.

Well, I have decided that in this week’s column I will explore possible origins and endings of some of our favorite expressions that we have all grown up with over the years.

I think the phrase from our modern culture that I miss the most came about in the mid-eighties. I have often wondered what has happened to the poor woman who so eloquently put the spirit of the eighties into one simple saying. I’m sure you all have guessed who I am talking about; she’s my friend and yours, the “Where’s the Beef?” lady from the Wendy’s commercials. I do of course have my own theory as to what happened to this icon of the past decade. My guess is that she finally did find out where the beef was, and that it was a lot like Soylent Green. I think she is also to blame for the disappearance of another eighties’ icon, Spuds MacKenzie. I think she probably kidnapped Spuds and is now running through the streets of some small Kansas town like Alice from the Wizard of Oz after eating some Alice B. Toklas brownies screaming, “It’s people, the beef is people!”

My next favorite quote also came from that great decade of lines and luxury, the 80’s. Who else out there remembers the little mousy looking guy who would stand steadfast in the toiletries aisle of the supermarket, ever vigilant for the ruffian or two who would have the gall to squeeze the Charmin. Can you imagine having your entire career based on saying, “Don’t squeeze the Charmin?” My theory on Mr. Whipple’s demise is that, seeing how human nature is intrinsically cruel, people would repeatedly squeeze the Charmin right in front of him. He eventually lost it, grabbed an Uzi, which by the way can be found in your finer pawning establishments, and went postal in a Bi-Lo, killing 30 people. I think he took Morris the Cat out with him. Whatever happened to good ole Morris the cat? He fell off the face of the Earth at a speed faster than Gary Coleman chasing Webster. I swear, I have nothing against vertically challenged people, please don’t lop me off at the knees.

Finally, I must inquire as to the origin of a word that I did not encounter until I came to the South about ten years ago from Ohio. Seeing as I am now farther South than I was in Virginia, maybe someone here can help me out. What in the world is a “yea” and is it truly the most ambiguous form of measurement in the world? I have been told that everything from a fish to a Buick is, “Oh, about yea big.” How big is a yea? Can it be broken down into milliyeas and centiyeas? How about for really long distances, can you have kiloyeas?

Of course, I do have a theory as to the origin of the measurement “yea.” Back in the early nineteen hundreds a man by the name of Goober lived at the fork of a lightly traveled road in Western Virginia. Now Goober looked as if the kid on The Porch from Deliverance and Boo Radley had had a kid, and needless to say his verbal skills made Stallone look like Shakespeare. Well, when people would come up to him and ask, “How far is it to (insert your own backwoods locale, welcome to the interactive portion of the column)?” To which Goober would reply, “Bout’ yea far.” Eventually the travelers would take this newfound measurement out of the woods and use it in their everyday lives. So that now when a traveler in Tennessee asks a local how far it is to Nevada, the local can point a finger off into the distance and say, “Oh, it’s ‘bout yea far away in that direction.” The traveler can then be sure that he now knows exactly how far he has to travel in order to reach his destination.

Well, I guess it’s time for me to wrap this up so that I may get a good head start running away from both Gary Coleman and everyone from Tennessee. Take it easy folks, and I’ll see ya’ll ‘round.