THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1998

Soccer struggles against opponents in opening week

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

UNCC 2 DAVIDSON 1
RIDER 2 DAVIDSON 0
MARSHALL 2 DAVIDSON 1 (2OT)

While the men’s soccer team showed improvement over the first week of the season, the results were unfortunately the same as the Cats dropped their first three contests of the year. The losses ranged from being overmatched by UNCC to a very controversial loss to Marshall. The Marshall loss was a heartbreaker as the Thundering Herd scored in the 120th minute of play to steal a victory from the Cats. Three minutes earlier, it appeared Davidson had entered the win column. The controversy arose after an offsides call against the Cats. It appeared that while setting up a free kick, the Marshall defenseman touched the ball before playing the ball back to the keeper. As a result, Davidson thought the ball was officially in play. As the ball rolled back to the keeper, junior forward Andrew Holbrook broke on the ball and stole it. He then passed to a breaking Ikenna Myers who put the ball past the lunging Marshall keeper. Everyone thought the game was over as the Davidson players and fans celebrated. While initially ruled a goal by referee John Barber, it was disallowed after Barber consulted with assistant referee Jim Fahy. Regarding the controversy, Coach Slagle was gracious as he said, “The game is in their hands. It was a judgment call. We thought the ball was put in play, but Marshall claimed it was just setting the free kick up.” This set the stage for Marshall’s Wayne Bennett. After another questionable call, in which Marshall players and fans thought they deserved a penalty kick, they were awarded a free kick just outside the box with just thirty seconds left. Off a pass from David Husbands, Bennett rifled the ball into the upper right corner of the net. The game was scoreless until Davidson forward Richard Kleiman was taken down from behind in the penalty box. A penalty kick was given, and sophomore Dave Buehler beat Marshall’s Richard Orrick with a shot to the keeper’s left. Davidson’s lead did not last for long. With around ten minutes left, Marshall’s Chris Varnado scored by just pushing the ball past a lunging Marshall Tyler for the equalizer. Both teams had a lot of opportunities. Ikenna Myers, who impressed over the weekend, made several nice crosses, most notably one to Buehler in the second overtime, but nothing was finished off. Marshall almost won the game in regulation. Hugo La Reservee had Tyler beat, but he pushed the ball into the side of the net. Davidson outshot the Thundering Herd 17-15 and had 16 corner kicks to Marshall’s 3. While it was a game of many missed opportunities, it was also a very physical game. Marshall had 23 fouls, while the Cats had 16. La Reservee was sent off with a red card. The first game of Charlie’s Invitational matched Davidson against Rider University. Like the game against Marshall, Davidson played Rider to a scoreless first half. This game was played at a slower pace. In the end, both teams managed only seven shots each. Davidson’s best scoring chance of the first half came when Ikenna Myers crossed the ball to freshman Jeremy Kilburn. Kilburn headed the ball past the Rider keeper, but a defenseman saved the ball from going in. In the second half, it appeared Davidson would get on the board when Andrew Holbrook had a one-on-one with Rider’s goalie, but Rider’s goalie played the situation perfectly and forced Holbrook to shoot it wide. Rider managed to take advantage of the few opportunities it had. Its star was senior forward Craig Wicken. In the 12th minute of the second half, Wicken scored the first goal of the game. Davidson continued to press but could not find the back of the net.

Harriers have best finish in years at opening cross-country meet

By KEITH GORDON
Staff Writer

The men’s cross-country team opened its season Saturday at the annual Mountaineer Open in Boone, NC. The meet proved to be a showcase of both untapped potential and strong veteran running. The men scored 48 points, placing second out of four teams. Appalachian State (1997 Southern Conference Champions) won the meet with a total of 22 points, securing five of the top ten places. UNC-Asheville finished in third place with 61 points, while Lees-McRae rounded out the field with 111 points. Junior Brent Ferrell, last year’s MVP, led the team in 26:26 over the 8000-meter course (4.97 miles), finishing in 2nd place overall. Senior Josh Cookson, returning after a redshirt season last year, followed Ferrell in 26:49 and placed 7th. Junior Pat Burchett ran equally as well, covering the course in 27:01 and taking the 9th place position. Juniors Thomas McElveen (27:46, 15th) and William Isenhour (28:06, 18th) rounded out the men’s scoring top five, providing for the impressive opening day finish. In addition to the team’s performance, Ferrell’s time was the second fastest ever by a Davidson runner at the ASU course, while Cookson’s was the sixth fastest and Burchett’s the seventh fastest time by a Davidson harrier. Will Dickerson of Appalachian State was the overall winner in 25:51. Coach Gary Andrew, though ecstatic with his team’s performance, noted, “This is only the first rung on the ladder. We still have a lot of work to do. However, it was the best opening meet in many years, as we had three runners in the top ten. In the previous six years, only one runner (Cookson) had placed as high as eighth.” “I feel the guys are working hard in practice, but more importantly they are doing the little things that are making the difference. It’s a great beginning to what may be the best season at Davidson in recent years,” he added. Juniors Scott Hutchins (29:04, 24th) and Steve Johnston (29:15, 25th) completed the team’s top seven. Freshman Paul Irwin made his collegiate debut in 29:28, finishing in 26th place. Also competing for the men were Davey Bacon (29:53), KeithGordon (30:01), Keith Chapman (30:24), Jonathan Fly (30:53), and Victor Talbird (31:21). Bolstered by the addition of #1 recruit and Cake race champion Dan Gibson (who missed Saturday’s meet), the Cats look poised to make serious noise at the September 19 pre-conference/alumni invitational at Davidson. As nine of the conference’s 12 teams will be present, the men will have a good early season test and indicator of their standing among the conference teams. The Southern Conference Championships, also on the home trails of Davidson, are slated for October 31.

In the second half, Wicken rocketed a shot past Marshall Tyler, only to be denied by the post. Wicken scored Rider’s second goal of the game, giving them a 2-0 lead. Davidson’s toughest game of the first week was against cross-town rival UNCC. The 49ers entered the game ranked 25th in the nation. The first half was all UNCC. UNCC controlled the midfield and didn’t allow the Cats to get off a shot. Davidson was troubled by poor organization in the midfield. Whereas UNCC’s ball movement was very flowing, Davidson was very cluttered, especially in the midfield. UNCC struck at the 10:56 mark of the first half. Off a corner kick, former Providence Day star Christian Lund nailed a shot off the post. Davidson was unable to control the rebound, and David Hughes gained possession of the ball and scored. Hughes was the star for the 49ers as he put them up 2-0 in the second half. One area where the 49ers clearly dominated was on set plays (i.e. corner kicks and free kicks). Whereas Davidson seemed unorganized, UNCC made the most of them. Two goals were the result. The second goal by Hughes was a great scissor kick off a free kick.

Davidson had their moments in the game. They actually dominated the last twenty-five minutes, exerted more pressure, and led a strong counterattack. Davidson’s lone goal resulted off a beautiful backheel by junior Randy Culbertson. Culbertson passed the ball to Dave Buehler, who fired a shot right at UNCC’s keeper, John McDonough. At first glance, it appeared that McDonough had held on. Then, Andrew Holbrook followed Buehler’s shot and scored after McDonough dropped the ball. While Davidson dominated the rest of the game, they weren’t able to score again, and they lost 2-1.

While Davidson cannot be happy about their performance this weekend, there were some positive aspects. For the most part, Marshall Tyler was excellent in goal. He made several outstanding saves, especially against UNCC. He also did a great job in cutting off crosses. Andrew Murray, the transfer from Notre Dame, was impressive at sweeper in his first Davidson start. Ikenna Myers and Andrew Holbrook also both played very well at forward. Still, Coach Slagle wasn’t satisfied with his team’s performance. He said, “There weren’t many positives. While there were good performances, we cannot take moral victories out of having more shots and corner kicks. We have a lot of work to do.” Davidson’s next match is Wednesday against defending National Champion, UCLA at 7:30.

Students need to support Davidson athletics

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

Last Saturday was one of the best days of my life, yet it was somewhat bittersweet. As a senior, I know that some of the best years of my life are coming to an end. Therefore, I plan to enjoy every day of this year. I certainly had a great time hanging out with friends at Warner Hall and the apartments, but I had mixed emotions for another reason. March 31, 1995 was one of the most disappointing days of my life. It was the day that I was rejected from my top college choice, the University of Notre Dame. If everything had gone as I had always planned, I would have spent last Saturday in South Bend watching my beloved Fighting Irish upset the #5 ranked Michigan Wolverines 36-20. Watching the game here at Davidson, I couldn’t help but think what might have been. I imagined being a Notre Dame senior and rushing the field. Nevertheless, I was very excited as the Irish mounted a second half comeback to win. For the rest of the day, no one could wipe the smile I had off my face. After two mediocre seasons, the pride is back for Notre Dame.

My purpose in writing this article is not to say I'd still rather attend Notre Dame. As I have already stated, I love Davidson, but I wish our students could get more excited about our athletics. We should take great pride in the fact that we are one of the smallest schools in Division I athletics, and we are still able to compete and win at such a high level. With that said, our opportunity to celebrate a major upset will come this Wednesday evening. With apologies to our football team, soccer is the major fall sport here. This Wednesday, we will host the defending National Champions, the UCLA Bruins. If Davidson wins, this will be the third time in the 1990s that one of our teams has knocked off the best team in the country (Baseball has done it twice, against Miami in ‘90 and Georgia Tech in ‘94).

Therefore, I am encouraging all students to attend as many sporting events as possible. We need to give our athletes the support they deserve. This needs to start this Wednesday night against UCLA and continue the rest of the year for all sports. In two weeks, our only home track meet of the year occurs. If a team ever needed support, it’s our track team. Come winter, wrestling will have one or two meets at home where one of Davidson’s finest athletes, Ian Kaplan, will be on display. Then in the spring, everyone, especially those students from south of northern Virginia, many of whom have never seen a lacrosse game, should go see our women’s lacrosse team play. The bottom line is that our soccer team has the opportunity to do to UCLA what Notre Dame did to Michigan on Saturday. Hopefully, come Wednesday night, Davidson students will be running onto the field celebrating a major victory. This can only happen with good, strong fan support.