AcbcE OND A MeL x Ai J ORTA LIBERTAS

“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Under New MANAGEMENT

Cats beat Furman. After VMI loss, Cats rebound.

SPORTS

Vagt rejects sororities

By Liz NEIHEISEL News Editor

Bring on the pork. Wes reviews Lancaster’s Bar-B-Que.

A&L 10

Vamanos Van under fire. Abandoned students speak out.

OPINIONS 7

Martin Luther King, Jr. College holds a celebration of his life.

NEWS 4

In a press release issued Monday, Jan. 12, President Robert Vagt announced that nationally-affiliated sororities would not be invited to
campus in the near future. “It is my judgment,” he said, “that the presence of sororities at Davidson could put
at risk one of this institution’s great strengths — that is, the unsurpassed quality, the breadth and depth, of the
female applicants for admission.”

After months of intense debate and controversy, Vagt’s decision came as no surprise. As indicated in the Nov. 11 issue
of The Davidsonian, the vast majority of women, and the student body in general, opposed the introduction of sororities on
the basis that they may have a negative impact on the current eating house system.

Though 70 percent of the women polled opposed the invitation to sororities on this basis, Vagt’s decision focused on another
aspect: the likelihood that sororities’ presence “would diminish our attractiveness to women and female applicants to the college.”

“The fact is we’re very lucky, very fortunate, to have the women on this campus that we have,” said Vagt.
“We have something that we know that we like, that really makes us distinctive, and we don’t want to run
the risk of losing that.” The focus of dissension on campus, and the greatest battle for Vagt, was a question
of equity. In the press release, Vagt asserts his faith in the “fundamental belief (of the) right of any group
to organize on this campus” unless “that group or its activities may violate the noble aims or the best interests
of this institution and its constituent assembly.”

“Everybody should have a right to organize,” he said. Sororities, in his opinion, represented such a threat. “To me the
clear and present danger was not what those organizations in their activities would do. Their presence on this campus, we
were told by three fairly reputable sources, would diminish our attractiveness to women and female applicants to the college.”

“It wasn’t the sororities by virtue of its activities here would do something, it was just their presence. The best
interests of the College,” said Vagt, “was to keep the women such as we have been lucky to come through
here already.”

“Right now, based on what I know...We have on campus

Sallie McMurray @ Warner Hall members “initiated” incoming freshmen into their eating house during this past Friday’s self-selection festivities.

117 Men, 180 Women take part in self-selection

By SARAH OGDEN Co-Editor in Chief

Self-Selection commenced once again early Friday morning, as women’s eating house cheers reverberated throughout freshmen-inhabited dorms.

First-year students and sophomores who chose to join an eating house or fraternity returned the forms listing their house preferences
last Wednesday.

Following the traditional wake-up call, house functions were held Friday night to celebrate the arrival of and welcome incoming members,
“highlighted,” according to one Rusk member, by the streaking of nude fraternity pledges through each eating house.

“Overall, things went well,” said Patterson Court Advisor and Residence Life Coordinator Jim Barber.

“I think having a Risk Manager at each house helped things,” said Barber, “as did having no beer slides.” This
is the first year Risk Managers (who “red-shirted” at their own houses) have been present at each house during Self-Selection.

Barber, who experienced Self-Selection this year for the first time, added that there are still things that can be done
to make the night even safer.

“I’m really excited about the new girls,” said Rusk president Emily Eagan. “Self-selection was awesome, unbelievable.”

“I think it went absolutely beautifully,” agreed Taylor Roy, a former Rusk president. “I think the entire process went more
smoothly this year.”

Connor president Ellen Runnels relates a similar experience. “I think it went great,” she said. “We had a blast. It
was fun. It was crazy. It was one of the funnest nights of my life.”

“The freshmen are awesome,” Runnels continued. “They absolutely rock.”

Ann Strauser, president of Warner Hall, said that the night went “pretty well. The sisterhood part was so much fun,
and when it opened up, it was crazy - but in a good way.”

Strauser was also impressed with Warner’s incoming class of freshmen. “They’re so great,” she said. “They’re so enthusiastic, and they’re
ready to be involved.”

“I loved (self-selection),” said Kate Helm, a first-year student who self-selected into Rusk. “It was so much fun.”

“It was fun,” agreed freshman Aguil Deng, who joined Warner. “I went out with the girls on my hall...It was
nice to bond.”

None of the eating houses reported major incidents during Self-Selection.

According to Barber, 117 men and 180 women self-selected into a respective fraternity or eating house this year, including four
sophomore men and one sophomore woman.

The freshman class is comprised of 241 men and 229 women overall.

Of those who pledged fraternities, 15 chose Kappa Alpha; 12 chose Kappa Sigma; 12 chose Pi Kappa Alpha; 14 chose
Phi Delta Theta; 10 chose Phi Gamma Delta; 15 chose Sigma Alpha Epsilon; and 25 chose Sigma Phi Epsilon.

“This is a decision which will not be pleasing to all.”

PRESIDENT BOBBY VAGT, IN EXPLAINING HIS DECISION ON SORORITIES

Of those who joined eating houses, 43 chose Connor; 66 chose Rusk; and 66 chose Warner Hall.

The Black Student Coalition gained 26 new members, of which one is also a member of a fraternity and six
are members of eating houses.

Police reports and information regarding any accidents Friday night were unavailable.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036
