THE DAVIDSONIAN

Olestra: it’s all that and a bag of chips

I guess I’ll have to begin this week’s article with another apology. I’ll admit it, a grave error has been made. You see, I have failed to provide a disclaimer for my readers, and for that reason alone I have become terribly misunderstood. Some people, it has been discovered, are incapable of handling my sarcasm, and it is this intolerance that leads to horrible accounts of misguided slander and cruel verbosity (see the “Britton Taylor Sux” issue of The Davidsonian, pages 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11).

To prevent such instances from occurring in the future, I have no choice but to institute the Britton Taylor Opinions Column System of serious ratings (code-named “BuTtOCkS”) — a calculated and precise mechanism which I myself have devised for the benefit of my readers. And so I now have no choice but to tell you that this here column is rated “H”. What the hell does that mean, you ask? It means this article is Humorous. If you do not have a sense of humor, you are not allowed to continue. Do not pass go, do not collect $200, do not waste your time writing a lame article in response.

That out of the way, I would like to assume the role of consumer advocate for the remainder of this column. Imagine Ralph Nader, only a tad shorter and a lot fatter. Now, I normally wouldn’t consider myself to be one too concerned with his physical health. Perhaps you have seen me running down Concord Road with a cigarette in my mouth. Of course, I have asthma, too, but I swear I’m the fastest damn asthmatic smoker you ever saw — a jiggling, jogging, wheezing contradiction!

I’m not one to count calories, either. I’d much rather count the number of hairs on my chest (I’m up to three now) or the number of beers I can shotgun without blacking out (27). Concern with fat grams is equally absurd. As I’ve said before, you can’t have “FRAT” without “FAT.” And we all know that a world without FRAT is a world without New Balance™ shoes — what a terrible thought! Nor would I consider myself a label reader, unless I intend to humor myself by reading out loud all the funkadelic chemicals I'll be ingesting.

But the other day, an awful thing occurred to me. I was sitting in the library reading when a friend of mine approached me with this large bag of barbecue chips. All she could say to me was, “Man, these chips are good. Man, these chips are good. Man, these chips are good.” Well, I’m never one to turn down a good chip, so I tried one and then another, and then another and another and another, and before long I polished off the whole bag. No big deal, I do stuff like that all the time. But then this girl goes on to tell me that these chips are actually some sort of newfangled scientific experiment and that the entire bag of chips actually has negative calories. Once inside the stomach, the chips apparently change into barbecue chewing gum, a substance which, as we all know, stays inside your bowels for anytime upwards of 14 years, taking thousands if not millions of calories to digest.

I’m immediately looking at the label for a buzzword, something that catches my eye. At the bottom of the packing in bold print I find the following warning:

Caution: This product contains OLESTRA, a substitute which may cause abdominal cramps and/or looseness of the stool. Do not drive after eating olestra. Do not operate heavy machinery while consuming olestra. Do not go swimming for 30 minutes after you have eaten olestra. Do not eat this whole bag by yourself. If dizziness, nausea, sore throat, headache, vomiting, diarrhea, or paralysis occurs, please consult your physician immediately. Questions??? Please call our toll-free consumer hotline at 1-800-HELP-ME.

Now, remember that I’m reading this after I have eaten the entire bag of genetically cloned chips. My immediate reaction is one of great horror. I swoon in my chair, grasping my stomach in pain. I thought I might become the first male to experience what it feels like to give birth. And all the while this girl keeps saying — “Man, those were some good chips, huh?!” Unbelievable.

For a while I actually thought about calling the hotline in order to inquire about my well-being, but what were they going to do, send me some free chips? That certainly wouldn’t remedy my current situation. All I could do then was wait, but for what, exactly, I wasn’t really sure. Should I make out a will? Or perhaps I should call my parents so I could tell them that I was about to be killed by a bag of potato chips? I even thought about running down Concord Road with a cigarette — one last victory lap for the inhaler-burdened emphysemiac. I decided against this only at the last minute, for I came to realize that I had failed to consider the olestra caution’s stool clause seriously. Jogging “loose” quickly became an abominable and disgusting impossibility.

I then considered a few eulogies for my gravestone, such as the following:

Here Lies Britton Taylor, A Jolly And Pleasant Fellow. In The Year Nineteen Hundred And Ninety-Eight, He Sucked And Ate A Bad Potato.

Not bad, I guess, but then I got to thinking that I had to do something about this terrible situation. I had to warn the rest of the world about OLESTRA before we are succumbed to this deadly fat substitute. Unfortunately, I got sidetracked because I started getting stressed out about all the work I had to do that night. I did have a midterm and a test the following day. I was going to have to abandon my plan to save the world.

I went to bed that night expecting it to be my last. The stomach cramps had begun, and I figured the paralysis would set in sometime during the early hours of the morning. I must admit, I was a bit surprised when I woke up the following day, still alive. Ever since, the left side of my body has been completely numb, but other than that I think I made it through okay.

I guess my concern here really lies with what we are eating out there. At what point must we stand up and admit that we won’t risk getting a stroke just to enjoy a few low-fat potato chips? At what point must we all, as concerned eaters of nasty things, put our fists into the air and chant as one collective body the following prayer: “We will not eat that which will most certainly kill us!” I yearn for that very day. When it happens, be sure to let me know, because I want to be in the front row so The Davidsonian can take my picture. Until then, I’ll...be in the library signing autographed copies of my new book, entitled “Olestra: The Next Nutra-Sweet™, Only It’s a Lot, Lot Worse.” I must be getting old. But more and more I long for the “good old days” at Davidson. After the disappointment two weeks ago of realizing that Davidson is planning to institute racially and religiously segregated halls, I was crushed to find a sign posted in the Union signifying another major change at Davidson: the apparent end of the administration’s faith in our Honor Code. At the request of the administration, the Union no longer allows students to use a friend’s card to buy food. On the memo explaining this death of our honor, it states that students cannot use another’s card, even if they claim to have permission to do so. Society does not trust its members to be honest enough to tell the truth in such matters. If your father said that your mother had given you permission to take five dollars from her purse to buy her a bottle of milk, would you have any problem taking that five dollars for milk? NO. Why? Because you totally trust your father and have no doubts that, if he said your mother gave you permission to take the money, you have permission to take the money. So if the administration felt the Honor Code was working as it should and that Davidson students could be trusted, would they initiate a policy like this one? NO. Explicit or not, what is the motivation behind such a policy? Students cannot be trusted to tell the truth. The Honor Code doesn’t work. 

Following the embarrassment of the “Gist Trial,” I was very worried about the future of one of Davidson’s greatest treasures. The Davidsonian poll (whether representative or not) showed that a large number of students had lost faith in our system. Following the Gist Trial, I was assured by administrators that changes were being made to the Honor Code and trial procedures that hopefully would restore faith in the process. That is why I was so saddened by this new policy. The Honor Code is definitely not at its strongest point right now. We need the administration to lead by example and take an active role in strengthening the system. This policy does the complete opposite and shows that at least certain parts of the administration have lost faith in our Code and our Honor. I don’t think the Honor Code is dead. I have faith in Davidson’s student body and in Davidson’s tradition. Just the other day I saw someone “reserve a table” at the Commons by leaving her wallet on it before getting in line. Students may have been upset and disappointed by what they saw at the Gist Trial, but I do not believe they have lost their honor. I challenge the administration to re-examine their new policy and its implications. Every part of the Davidson family must believe in the Honor Code if it is to survive. I don’t think the students have given up on the Honor Code yet. I hope the administration won’t, either.

Last night, during another in a long line of “leadership” seminars, I, with 25 or so other freshmen and sophomores, was to learn about one of the most important and unique facets of human life — communication. One of the many activities the facilitator instructed the group to do during the two-hour session caused me to recall a time now “light years ago” — my Davidson College orientation. The facilitator told each of us to get a partner, to get “toe-to-toe” across from them, to look directly into the other person’s eyes, to not look away for any reason, and to pick a topic and discuss this until he told us to stop. Now, I don’t know if you keep track of how often you look into another person’s eyes for an extended period of time, but last night I reasserted to myself that I find it disconcerting much of the time. While I consider myself an open person, I knowingly guard my eyes. No, I do not cover them for most of the day, but I do not hold or keep eye contact for long, whether in saying hello or in a conversation with a friend. Others can analyze why this is, but I have my own explanation, one that came to me as orientation drew to a close last fall, and one I still come back to now.

“Over the past week I have met more people than I ever have in such a short time, and while first impressions are hardly just, they provide information that may be guarded later — for whatever reason. As I have looked into people’s eyes, I have seen iron walls and open hearts, unknown egos and hidden sensitivity.” Look at people when their guard is down, and at that moment, for a split second, they reveal themselves, their vulnerability, what they think of you and of the people and ideas around them. This information about people’s relationships between their hearts and minds is the most precious that one can reveal. College freshmen, businessmen, politicians, anyone, everyone can only hide so much. Individuals who think behind brambles, and fog, and obscure vision pose the greatest challenge for those who seek an answer to the most intimate question — what constitutes a person’s soul — without asking, but rather through sight and perception. Look into a person’s eyes. See their core, so thickly hidden. Know or learn, but look directly. See. Seek. Can you open up? I find this risky and too revealing and therefore have a difficult time looking directly into someone’s eyes. I’ve met so many people, but know so few.

WRITE FOR Op-ED. IT’S FUN FOR THE WHOLE DORM FAMILY. Call Erin (x6306).