The final word: If you think the decision to close Chambers is merely a matter of saving money, the administration
has already pulled the wool over your eyes. I am sorry to break this to you, my fellow Davidsonians, but
the decision is part of a larger conspiracy, one that will threaten not only our study habits but our very
way of life. The conspiracy is an attempt to introduce an insidious force into our midst, one that will gradually
destroy our lives. The name of this evil is poor time management. Allow me to illustrate its horrors.

Last December, I traveled to India, my home country, and then to a couple of European nations. Admittedly, these places
have conveniences grossly inferior to Davidson’s, and living in them taxes one’s patience. Nevertheless, one is obligated to visit one’s
relatives from time to time, and also tour other countries to see artistic frivolities that, though interesting, are far too
silly to have ever been built, let alone preserved, in America. During my travails, I had to suffer the unforgivable
indignity of doing all my shopping before 9 p.m. because there were no Harris Teeters or Wal-marts around. Local television
and radio stations would stop broadcasting at around midnight. In England, even the heating in hotels would shut off at
midnight because the management expected you to be in bed by then. Oddly enough, most people actually preferred to go
to bed by midnight anyway and did not consider a good night’s sleep a waste of time. Such poor time
management would make any caffeine-blooded Davidson student cringe. I myself was depressed for weeks as a result.

I longed to return to such 24-hour American institutions as Harris Teeter, Wal-mart, Denny’s, and the redoubtable Waffle House. Not
to mention all the buildings in Davidson that are open 24 hours. I truly realized how fortunate we are in
Davidson to deter poor time management by being able to schedule almost any activity at any hour of the day.
The American pursuit of convenience is at work here. While lesser nations must schedule their daily activities around natural biological
rhythms, we in America have moved beyond such a conception of time. In America, convenience supersedes such primal urges. Americans
have realized that the rights of clerks and waiters are trivial in comparison to the layperson’s right to buy eggs
and milk at four in the morning. And unlike others, Americans do not obsess over the petty doses of energy
needed to keep these institutions open. These highly-evolved ideas of convenience are a defining feature of the American way, and
particularly the Davidson way of life. They are what make this the most time-efficient country on earth.

Our crafty administration, however, is now trying to belittle our right to work when we want to. They are trying
to force us to go home for at least five hours a night. Perhaps they are even suggesting that we
sleep during these five hours. Must I spell it out? Our college is forcing us to manage time inefficiently! To
add insult to injury, it is encouraging us to place a meaningless biological need, namely sleep, over higher needs, such
as academic competitiveness, extra-curricular over-commitment, and — the holiest of Davidson holies — procrastination.

Let me illustrate how the decision to close Chambers could overturn the way you spent the last 24 hours. First,
you would have lost the chance to brag about your all-nighter. That alone could undermine any self-respecting Davidson student’s self-esteem.
Second, you would not have been able to spend half an hour bitching about the two papers and three tests
you have this week because you would have been forced to spend that half hour studying. Third, you would have
had to quit the SGA Sub-Committee on Squirrels, the Campus Coalition for the Election of Ross Perot, and the Club
Curling Team because of a time shortage, thus jeopardizing your resume and your $40,000 per year job. Next, you would
not have had an excuse to sleep through your 8:30 class or drool during your 12:30 Seminar. Worst of all,
you would have actually gotten at least five hours of sleep (or, God forbid, even more), thus causing you to
have the unusually disgusting feeling of waking up refreshed in the morning. No civilized person, let alone any intellectuallySuperior Davidson
student, should have to undergo such torture. If we let the administration get away with this, even more indignities will
follow. Before you know it, the College will be forcing you to clean up your beer and puke. And you'll
be forced to flush. If we complain, I am sure they will have the audacity to call us spoiled or
use a similar misnomer. We cannot let this injustice occur, my fellow students. I therefore call on you to unite.
I suggest we start a string of protests this week that will put even Berkeley to shame. I will personally
lead a sit-in on the front lawn at 3 p.m. tomorrow. Rain location: Chambers gallery. And if I’m late, start
without me, because as I may have mentioned to several of you already, I have this paper that I should
have started last week...

D.C., the Peace Corps, and me

What do Hillary Clinton, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and two Latvian singers have in common? It may sound like a bad joke,
but the answer is even more baffling than the question: the Peace Corps and me. On Sept. 15, the Peace
Corps dedicated its new headquarters, and all those mentioned above, myself included, took part in the festivities. Mrs. Clinton cut
the ribbon. Arnold smiled his celebrity smile standing by his wife Maria Shriver, as Peace Corps Director Mark Gearan named
Shriver Hall after Maria’s father, the first director of the Peace Corps. The Latvians provided entertainment, singing at the reception
later that evening, and I, a lowly press office intern, ran around all day doing what I could to help
make the day’s events go smoothly. I bought rope to hold back the press, brought water to the Secret Service,
served drinks, and got to witness a little bit of Peace Corps history. All in all, it was a day
I won’t soon forget, and this is only my first month in Washington.

When I first decided to spend my semester “abroad” in a city a mere six hours away from Davidson, I
thought all I would get was a change of scenery. I never expected to see or learn much since I
wasn’t leaving the country. I’m now entering the fifth week of my sojourn, and I gladly and willingly admit that
the city of Washington and my experience as an intern at the Peace Corps headquarters have proved me wrong. The
city of Washington is busting at the seams with culture that defies categorization. There are people here from all over.
Everyone looks, thinks, and behaves differently, yet we share the distinction of living in the most eventful, news-making city in
the world — at least I think it is. So many things go on here, it’s hard not to be
a part of them. So much history is made, it’s hard not to feel affected, if not necessarily patriotic.

I can say all this and more about working for the Peace Corps. As an intern in the press office,
I get to hear all about what volunteers are doing, which makes my job all the more fun. One volunteer,
for example, got Little League Inc. to donate baseball equipment for teams he coaches in Meru, Kenya. I saw pictures
of the kids with their new uniforms and felt proud to be working for an organization that makes things like
this happen. Until I started here, it never occurred to me that behind every Peace Corps volunteer there was an
entire eight-floor building full of people working for him or her. Being one of those people gives me a sense
of responsibility I don’t think I would have encountered at another job, and it makes me feel like I, too,
am helping people all around the world. So much good is being done here, it’s hard not to want to
do more. There may come a time when I decide to take off on my own Peace Corps wanderjahr, and
that building full of people will be working for me. They still have a couple of years to get ready
for that. Until then, I am telling everyone I know to visit the great city of Washington, D.C., and more
importantly, to get involved with the Peace Corps.
