TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

Town mayor Randall Kincaid speaks

On Sept. 29, Stephen Cefalu sat down with Davidson Mayor Randall Kincaid. Kincaid has been in office since Christmas 1997.

Davidsonian: Will you please share a little information about your personal and professional background?

Kincaid: I was originally raised in Quincy, Florida. I did my undergraduate work at Wofford and completed my post-graduate studies
at Duke. Then I was hired to teach economics at Davidson, which I did for 13 years full-time and six
years part-time. Currently, I teach in the MBA program at Queens College, where I see a fair number of Davidson
graduates. I’ve been a resident of Davidson since 1967. I’ve been involved in town government virtually the whole time I’ve
been here. First, I was chairman of Parks and Recreation for four years. In 1977, I became a member of
Davidson’s town board and stayed on it until 1995, when I ran for town mayor. I lost the election that
year by 49 votes to the incumbent mayor, Russell Knox. In 1997, I ran unopposed for mayor. I’m married, have
two sons and one three-week-old granddaughter. I walk four miles a day for health and relaxation. I play the piano
for pleasure. I build Habitat for Humanity houses. I’ve also spent a lot of time in the past working on
cars.

D: How would you characterize your first year in office?

K: It’s been a wonderful year. Of course, it started out with a tragedy, and that’s been a dominating theme
in my work and the work of the town board. The other dominating theme has been growth pressures. It’s absolutely
indescribable the number of people who want to live in this area. Part of my job is to be an
ambassador outside of Davidson. That’s expected of me. We are undeniably a creature of the state.

D: Can Davidson be contextualized as something other than a suburb of Charlotte?

K: I think that Davidson is not seen as a suburb of Charlotte. We live on the city’s rim, but
when people think of Davidson, they think of the town in its own right: its identity, personality, and ability to
guide its own destiny. There are a lot of very interesting people in this town.

D: Where does Davidson stand right now in terms of growth and development?

K: The town is actually growing quite slower than its surrounding towns. Recent statistical reports confirm this.

D: What would you say is a quintessential definition of the town of Davidson?

K: Everything that is Davidson is described in the phrase “It takes a village.” It’s a place where people live
for either a short time or long time; where they grow, mature, work, study, have friends, buy what they need
to buy, and worship the God they choose to worship.

D: What does Davidson College mean to the town of Davidson?

K: The College is the mother of the town. There was no town until there was Davidson College. In fact,
the town was called Davidson College until the turn of the century. The Davidson College Presbyterian Church is not named
after the College; it’s named after the town. Davidson College continues to be an active participant in everything having to
do with the town. The College has always been very generous to the town.

D: As you mentioned before, a particularly salient issue during your term in office has been race relations, particularly due
to the tragedy that occurred last Christmas. How do race relations in town fare at this point in time?

K: They’re good; but always needing careful attention. We have a new community relations task force which is part of
the Common Ground organization. The town asked Common Ground to take over the functions of the community relations committee, and
they’ve done a fine job. When it comes to race relations, Common Ground is a very important civic body, as
is the African American Coalition, the Ada Jenkins Board, and, of course, the town government. We help race relations by
continually responding to all citizens’ legitimate needs.

D: What legacy do you hope to leave when your term in office is over?

K: That I paid my dues for being allowed to live in this great town. That’s not an original...

RLO solicits greater student input on housing issues

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

In an attempt to formally solicit input from students, the Residence Life Office is forming a series of working groups
to address specific issues within residence life. The initial five groups will include housing, a Martin Court Association, programming, facilities,
and campus OneCard installation. Groups will share their findings and opinions both with the Director of Residence Life and the
SGA Advisory Committee, currently headed by Foster Haselden. That committee will then have the...ability to take significant issues to the
full SGA if they desire. Over the past several years, the SGA-RLO Advisory Committee has dealt with these issues through
studies and research. Kurt Holmes, Director of Residence Life, says the results of this group have been “invaluable.” However, “that
group often has much more to do than a single committee can research and respond.” New working groups will have
a narrower scope and more specific goals.

- Housing: This committee will assist with planning the annual Lottery process and offer insight regarding housing policies such as
a room-switch protocol and hall closing. Members will discuss options for January housing transition and discuss Commencement closing issues.
- Martin Court Association: This committee will review the needs and responsibilities of residents in the Martin Court Apartments. Members
will recommend community standards, review facilities, and support and create programming efforts.
- Programming: This committee will support the programming efforts within the residence halls by assisting with POMA (Program Of the
Month Awards) and reviewing the ability of the staff to meet the needs of the College and the students in
residence. Members will review programming standards, select POMA winners, and track programming.
- Facilities: This committee will participate in the discussion about annual renewal and replacement projects and advise the Director about
facility needs within the residence halls. Members will review current standards for occupancy, review facilities, and offer input regarding new
residence halls.
- OneCard: This committee will assist with coordination issues during the installation phase of the campus OneCard system. Members will
discuss successful installation of the Campus Cat Card system.

A professional staff member from the RLO staff will facilitate each group, joined by campus staff specifically related to the
topic (i.e., Housing Operations Coordinator to the Housing group), staff members, area coordinators, and students. To begin with, each group
will be asked to talk about the issues that RLO expects to face within that area. Later, the group will
also be asked to bring issues forward itself. While membership may be limited if interest in one group is too
large, all students are invited to participate. Interested students should contact Kurt Holmes or Dee Jordan at x2188 in the
Residence Life Office. RLO hopes to begin these work groups permanently after Fall Break.

From the SGA
By AMANDA Britt
Independent Senator

Many of you might be wondering exactly what goes on in SGA meetings. Who are your senators, and how are
they representing you? Well, we feel it our duty to inform you. Starting now, all the major SGA issues will
be right at your fingertips; issues that, of course, directly concern you, the student body.

On Tuesday, Sept. 22, Dean of Students Tom Shandley hosted the annual SGA Leadership Retreat at his home. Senators and
officers together discussed, debated, and finally devised five principal goals for the upcoming academic year. Each SGA member selected a
goal committee whose issue most concerned them. With each goal’s clear-cut objectives and specific dates, SGA intends to strive toward
the following:

1. Improving Constituent Relations. How? A suggestion box is set up at the Union front desk. SGA directories will soon
be available, with faces and addresses.
2. Improving Cultural Relations. Diversity and cultural events are underrated and need more support.
3. Encouraging Environmental Awareness. For instance, waste management and recycling procedures, or the possible lack thereof, need definite reconstruction attempts.
4. Finding Energy Saving Alternatives. What options exist if Chambers is closed from 1-6 a.m. that will still save energy?
Twenty-four hour access to somewhere is necessary.
5. Enhancing/Improving Senatorial Duties. Senators need more direct SGA-sponsored activity and interaction on campus.

SGA Hot Topics Now:
- OneCard: Resident Life Director Kurt Holmes and Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry presented the new and improved CAT
Card replacement. (You may already have one if you use Watson.) New photo IDs will be taken in the next
two months. The assembly discussed possible card distribution methods and background graphic designs.
- Phone-a-Thon: Oct. 4-Nov. 4. Four weeks of phoning alumni, among others, to raise money for the annual fund. Seniors
may work in the first week and will be scheduled according to apartment building. Juniors call during the second week
and sophomores during the third, both scheduled by social affiliation. Freshmen may call the fourth week. Phoning hours run from
6-9 p.m. Dinner will be served.
- “Lights Out”: A new committee sanctioned by SGA officials, students are discussing with President Bobby Vagt possible solutions for
study-friendly, energy-saving approaches. A recent student poll revealed that Chambers is the preferred setting for burning the midnight oil.
- Union Cafe: Look out: Smoothie and no-fry machines coming soon. Cafe hours and stock still are being deliberated.

The SGA meets every Tuesday at 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
