THE DAVIDSONIAN © By Dante Motz Senior Staff Writer

University of Massachusetts coach Bruiser Flint and his Minutemen handed the men’s basketball team several bruises Thursday night. The bigger and stronger Minutemen, a national powerhouse just a few years ago, used a 48-26 rebounding edge to defeat the Wildcats, 82-66, in front of 4,417 at Belk Arena.

UMass big men Tyrone Weeks and Lari Ketner each recorded double-doubles, both grabbing a dozen rebounds. But it was the Minutemen who were surprised the game was as physical as it was. “We didn’t realize that they were that physical,” said Ketner, who added 14 points. “We played them last year (a 77-64 UMass win in Amherst) and they played a much more physical game this year.” And that favored UMass.

The first basket of the game, a Weeks tip-in, set the tone for the domination the Minutemen enjoyed the entire game around the basket. UMass raced out to leads of 6-0, 23-9, and 26-11, and it looked as though this one may have been over at halftime. But the Wildcats played UMass even for the last nine minutes of the half, trailing only 42-29 at intermission. Still, the early deficit proved too much to overcome as the Wildcats could get no closer than nine in the second half.

“We played with a lot of timidity in the first half,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop. “I thought we showed more moxie in the second half and we chipped away, but it was not enough.”

The Wildcats struggled offensively all night and resorted to the three-point heroics of center Chadd Holmes. Holmes, two of three from beyond the arc, notched all 12 of his points in the second half. Mark Donnelly, Davidson’s leading scorer, struggled, converting only three of 15 shots from the field. “Mike Babul did a great job defensively to take Donnelly out of his game,” said Flint.

“Fatigue was definitely a factor for Mark,” said McKillop. “Running through screens takes a lot out of you and maybe we need to look at playing him fewer minutes.” And someone who may pick up those minutes is Emeka Erege. The freshman slasher had his best collegiate game, scoring nine points and grabbing five rebounds. His first-half dunk also brought the Belk crowd to its feet, albeit briefly.

The loss was Davidson’s last non-conference game, as it now exclusively focuses on Southern Conference play. For UMass, the win was their seventh straight, and it seems poised to make a seventh straight appearance in the NCAA tournament. “We played a team who demonstrated talent, toughness, and discipline,” said McKillop. “The fact that this team is not in the top 25 really surprises me.”

- war / Anna Judy @ Stephen Marshall drives against UMass, one of the Wildcats’ toughest opponents this year.

By ALLISON KALETT Staff Writer

On Saturday, the Lady Wildcat Basketball Team took on the Wofford College Terriers. The Wildcats, (10-7), started out sluggishly, falling behind by four points early in the first half. However, patience combined with hustle, especially by Jen O’Brien, helped put the Wildcats up by four with 8:17 left in the first half. The Wildcats stretched their lead late in the first half when Joanne Hassel made an over-the-head save to O’Brien, who then hit a key three-pointer. Despite this great play, Wofford refused to give in, and as a result, the Terriers were only down by three at halftime.

The second half opened as a see-saw battle of baskets and turnovers. However, due to the solid play of O’Brien and Katy Kamp, Davidson enjoyed its largest lead of the afternoon, up by 11, with 10:40 left in the game. At this point, victory was practically guaranteed. Key shots by Kerry Brown and Danielle Mall sealed the win for the Wildcats, who ended up winning with an impressive 79-66 margin. Another standout for Davidson was freshman Jennifer Joslin, who scored two key baskets in the middle of the first half. With a 5-3 conference record, the Lady Wildcats are enjoying a successful season, with high expectations for the games to come. Next on the schedule for the Wildcats is Tennessee Chattanooga on Monday night at 7:30.

Wrestling claims 2nd at W&L tourney By Bratton Holmes Sports Editor

On Saturday, the Davidson wrestling team returned to Lexington, Va., for the 21st annual Washington & Lee wrestling invitational. After crushing W&L in a dual meet two weeks ago, the Wildcats once again wrestled quite well in Lexington and finished second of seven teams in the tournament. Davidson won three weight classes, had five wrestlers reach the finals, and all of the nine wrestlers that were entered placed in their class. This was Davidson’s best finish ever in this tournament.

Ian Kaplan was champion of the 150 class with a win in the finals by technical fall. With this win Kaplan improved his record on the year to 19-4. He was also named the tournament’s Outstanding Wrestler. Rookie Jeff Libersat was champion of the 167 class. Sophomore Bo Bickerstaff, in the 177 class, lost in the finals to claim second place. At the 118-pound class, freshman Dan Carman took second place after wrestling two good opponents. Miles Cox, who moved up to the 126 class to make room for Carman, took third. Senior co-captain Ben Wall wasChampion of the 190 class with a 5-3 win over VMI’s Stephen Brown. Bill Cameron also entered the 190 class for Davidson and took third. Freshman Ronald Williams took fourth place at 158. Gray Broughton moved up from his normal class of 190 to wrestle heavyweight and still claimed fourth in the class. Anthony Albert also finished fourth in his class of 142, despite the fact that he was battling sickness throughout the day. The team’s second-place finish in the tournament, combined with its 5-2-1 record in dual meets this season, shows the strength of this year’s squad.

Swimming from page 16

Leg of the women’s medley relay, later went on to win the women’s 100 meter butterfly. George and freshman Sarah Wines were two of the swimmers disqualified in the women’s 400 meter medley relay over the questionable exchange between the butterfly and freestyle legs. Sophomore Beth Wilson also “rose to the occasion” in the 100 meter breast stroke. “The way the point differential was working out with two events remaining, we needed a win in the 100 breast to relax into the last relay,” said DeSelm. The women did just that, finishing first, third, and fourth in the breast stroke, with Wilson at the front. “Rich (DeSelm) didn’t tell me that I had to pull this off at the end, he told me afterwards,” said Wilson.

NCAA swimmers normally work with 25 yard pools, but Stern Center, an older pool, is 25 meters. The difference, while seemingly negligible to outsiders, made time comparisons impossible. “The goal of the meet changed, because the times weren’t comparable. We just had to get out there and compete,” said Wilson. “I think the women had a very good performance yesterday. We showed C of C what our women’s team was all about. It was great to see our team get in there and turn it around.”

This Saturday, the men will meet Duke and Georgia Tech in a three-way meet, with the women facing Duke and North Carolina A&T. DeSelm believes the face-off with Duke will be a tremendous challenge for both men’s and women’s squads, citing distance freestyle, breast stroke, and relays as key events. Georgia Tech also has a “good up-and-coming team, with a few good swimmers and divers,” said DeSelm.

The tri-way format itself presents obstacles. Multiple heats of single events mean swimmers will have to compete with times in previous heats, and not just the other swimmers in their heat. However, this format also lengthens the meet, giving swimmers of multiple events more down time. “If we are all able to swim our best of the season, and if we’re able to win close races, we’ll be in the meet,” said DeSelm. Both squads are excited about Saturday’s meet, and optimistic about its outcome. “A lot of people are going to step up their performances for Duke. They’re a big college name, so we’ll be fired up for it,” said Schnell. Saturday’s meet will begin at 1 p.m. in Cannon Natatorium. Students, faculty, and members of the community are encouraged to attend the team’s final home dual meet of the season.

Wildcats win at ETSU, beat Western

By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

JOHNSON CITY, Tenn. — Greg Stephens was good, but he wasn’t enough. Stephens, a junior transfer from Navy and East Tennessee’s leading scorer this year, tallied 27 points — the most by an individual against the men’s basketball team this season — but his Bucs fell to the Wildcats 71-58 last Monday night in the Mini Dome. After a sluggish first half, Davidson went to the locker room clinging to a precarious 30-25 advantage. But the Wildcats used a 14-0 run early in the second period to build a 21-point lead with 8:43 to go. Davidson’s defense limited ETSU to just 15 field goals and 32.6 percent shooting from the floor.

“I’m so much happier about our emotional feeling right now,” coach Bob McKillop said after his team’s second straight league road win. “It’s as if a cloud has been lifted off our shoulders.” Mark Donnelly rebounded from a subpar performance Jan. 17 at Furman, scoring 23 points, including 5-of-7 three-point marksmanship.

Wildcats 79, Western Carolina 73

After coasting to a 22-point win over Western Carolina three weeks ago in Cullowhee, the Wildcats needed some late-game heroics to better the Catamounts Saturday night at Belk Arena. Mark Donnelly scored a season-high 26 points, including a critical three with 1:36 to go that put Davidson up for good. Landry Kosmalski resurfaced for 19 points and nine rebounds. And Ben Ebong scrapped his way to 12 points and eight rebounds, giving the Wildcats much-needed energy and production during crunch time late in the second half.

However, the victory was costly for the Wildcats, as budding rookie Emeka Erege suffered a broken left leg at the 10:47 mark of the first half. “I’ve never seen an injury like that in my 25 years of coaching,” McKillop said. “To see him in excruciating pain and the anguish on his face was a difficult experience. I know it sat with me the whole game. It was a very difficult postgame locker room—concern and tears on our players’ faces.”