U STEW-pendous Victory

Sloan’s Heroics Propel Cats into Postseason

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

Four hours and five minutes after the game began, Stewart Sloan ended the game with one swing of the bat. Facing an 0-2 pitch with two outs in the bottom of the tenth, Sloan rose to the occasion and singled home Ben Brown and Thomas McGintee. The two-run single ensured that the Wildcats' season would continue this weekend in the Southern Conference Championship in Charleston. The Cats won 14-13 in a marathon game which never seemed it would end.

Sloan was just one of several heroes for the Cats. Sloan went 4 for 7 with 4 RBIs. He had two doubles to take the team lead with thirteen. Sloan also put the Cats up by one in the eighth with a two-out, two-run double. Mike DeSimone, the winning pitcher, also had four hits. He hit his ninth home run and scored two runs. Freshman Jeremiah Parvin continued his excellent season as he hit his sixth homer of the year, a grand slam in the third inning. Ryan Conaster had three hits, while Kurt Davis reached base four times with two hits and by being hit by two pitches.

For a while, it looked like the Cats would be staying home this weekend. The Buccaneers jumped out to early leads of 3-0 and 4-1. In the bottom of the third, the Cats began their first comeback of the afternoon. Sloan, batting third in place of Luke Goodwin, opened the inning with a single. DeSimone followed him with a double. Ryan Conaster loaded the bases when he walked. Jeremiah Parvin stepped to the plate and belted a grand slam over the fence in centerfield. The Cats now led 5-4. The Cats would get one more across when Ben Brown singled home Tom McGintee from second.

During the middle innings, the game really got wild. ETSU scored three times in the fourth to regain the lead 7-6. The Cats then rallied for two in the bottom half of that inning. With the bases loaded, ETSU starter Michael Harrell lost his composure as he hit McGintee with a pitch to score Conaster. Things continued to unravel for the righty as he balked home Parvin. The teams matched each other run for run until the seventh. In the seventh, ETSU’s Ryan Wagner singled to lead off the inning. He was followed by a bunt base hit by centerfielder Rodney McLain. With one out, the big hit came as leftfielder Brandon Eierman hit a three-run homer off Davidson’s Garland Yarborough. ETSU took an 11-9 lead.

Davidson had reason to worry as they entered the bottom of the eighth. While the Cats managed to cut the lead by one in the seventh, they knew that time was running out. Lance Torbett entered the game for ETSU. Torbett walked his first batter, Tom McGintee, before settling down and getting Ben Brown and Drew Williams out. Then on a very close 3-2 pitch, he walked Brian Joyce. With two outs, Sloan made himself the hero for the first time. Sloan lofted a fly ball to right-center, but none of the four Buccaneers in pursuit could come up with it as it dropped in for a double. Both McGintee and Joyce scored. The Cats were only three outs away from the postseason.

The usually reliable Mike DeSimone was getting set to close the game, but ETSU wouldn’t go so quietly. Things looked excellent for the Cats as DeSimone struck out Jason Wilson and then got Eierman to fly out to leftfield. Torbett, the pitcher, kept things alive as he singled past a lunging Ben Brown. Then, in a moment which left Wildcat players and fans holding their breath, ETSU’s Rusty Swackhammer hit a very deep shot to leftfield. The gods were on Davidson’s side as the ball hit the top of the fence but managed to stay in the park. Only one run scored and the game was now tied at twelve.

After the Cats were held scoreless in their half of the ninth, ETSU put the pressure on Davidson as they went up on an RBI single by Rodney McLain. The Cats were now three outs away from elimination. Tom McGintee lined a pitch to centerfield to reach first. McGintee then advanced on a Williams sacrifice hit. After Ben Brown walked, Brian Joyce flied out to centerfield. Joyce’s fly was long enough to allow McGintee to tag up to third. With Sloan up, Brown stole second. Sloan was down to his last strike when he ripped a single to right-center. Brown and McGintee both scampered home. The team mobbed the runners at the plate, while Kurt Davis rejoiced with Sloan at second base.

Whereas Sunday was a great day for the Cats, Saturday was a bit of a nightmare. Coming into the series, Davidson only needed one victory to qualify for Charleston. ETSU should have been a good opponent to face. They entered the series 6-17 in conference, a spot behind the Cats. Davidson had reason to be confident about winning at least one game, if not the entire series. What transpired on Saturday made what happened on Sunday so dramatic. By losing twice on Saturday, Sunday’s game acted as a play-in game for the conference tournament. In the first game on Saturday, the Cats looked strong in theEarly going behind starter Ryan Stroker, the Cats were able to hold a 3-1 lead through five innings. Stroker was pitching well as he had given up only one run on six hits to this point. In the sixth, designated hitter Matt Nunley doubled a two-strike pitch down the third base line. This double came at a crucial moment as two runs scored with two outs. Davidson had early success at the plate as they managed ten hits in the first six innings. Leading the way for Davidson was Ben Brown. Brown went 3 for 4, and Jeremiah Parvin had a hit and 2 RBIs. Once ETSU starter Heath Doyle was removed, Davidson struggled. Reliever Izzy Olvera controlled the Cats the rest of the way. In three and a third innings of work, Olvera yielded only one hit. He struck out four and did not walk anyone. The game remained tied at three until the ninth. With DeSimone on the mound for the Cats, he gave up a solo home run to Rodney McLain. The ball just cleared the right field fence and the outstretched glove of Jeremiah Parvin. The home runs kept on coming in the second game for the Buccaneers. After the Cats jumped out to a quick 4-0 lead, ETSU hammered Wildcat pitching over the next six innings for thirteen runs. They hit four home runs. Lance Torbett led the way hitting 3 for 4 with two homers and 5 RBIs. Sloan continued to be the bright spot for the Cats as he hit his first home run of the year in the ninth. It was too little, too late as the Cats fell 13-6. Sloan’s heroics would have to wait a day. On Sunday, Stewart Sloan's clutch hitting saved Davidson’s season. As a result, the Cats' postseason will begin on Thursday night at 7:30 against the Citadel in their home stadium.

Cats Upset 49ers, Cooke sets record
By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

The baseball team took a break from the tough Southern Conference schedule by playing two very good opponents, the Tar Heels of Chapel Hill and the UNCC 49ers. Davidson wasn’t expected to win either of these games, but then something funny happened. The Cats played some of their best ball of the year to split the two games. While the Cats lost on Tuesday in Chapel Hill, they defeated crosstown rivals UNCC the following night. With the 6-4 win against the 49ers, coach Dick Cooke set a record for most wins in a career. The victory was his 155th in eight seasons. He surpassed Tom Stevens who managed from 1957-74. UNCC, having their best season in years, entered the game at Phillips Field with a record of 30-14. The 49ers have a National Player of the Year Award contender in right fielder James Matan. Still, Davidson wasn’t overmatched. Eric Bowers started the night off well for the Cats as he pitched two perfect innings. Unfortunately, Bowers left the game early with an injury. Fritz Porter came in relief and pitched admirably. Porter, the eventual winner, had one of his better outings of the year giving up three runs in four innings. UNCC led 1-0 when Davidson came to the plate in the fifth inning. The Cats exploded for six runs on six hits. Freshman Mike Torres, starting in place of Drew Williams, singled. Ben Brown walked and Brian Joyce reached base on a bunt base hit. With the bases loaded, Stew Sloan hit a sacrifice fly, scoring Torres. Brown then scored on Paul Poplin’s wild pitch. Mike DeSimone then homered for the eighth time this year to put the Cats up 4-1. Two more runs followed and the Cats held a 6-1 lead.

Please see Cooke on page 18

SoCon Baseball Standings (through 4/26 games)

| Team | Conference | Overall |
|------|------------|---------|
| UNC Greensboro | 22-5 | 35-16 |
| The Citadel | 20-6 | 30-13 |
| Western Carolina | 20-6 | 28-24 |
| Furman | 15-12 | 28-20 |
| Wofford | 10-11 | 16-28 |
| Georgia Southern | 9-15 | 20-25 |
| Davidson | 8-16 | 12-35 |
| East Tennessee State | 8-17 | 14-35 |
| VMI | 7-17 | 13-28 |
| Appalachian State | 6-17 | 14-35 |

UNC 7, Wildcats 2
Wildcats 6, UNC-Charlotte 4
ETSU 4, Wildcats 3
ETSU 13, Wildcats 6
Western Carolina 14, ETSU 13

DSS Golf Awards, p. 13
Class of ‘98 — Swimming and Diving, p. 14
Women’s tennis takes third at conference tournament, p. 15
DSS Lacrosse Awards, p. 16
DSS Track Awards, p. 19
Men’s Tennis recap, p. 17
Baseball to face The Citadel this weekend, p. 19

STEWART SLOAN
Baseball 1B

Sloan has been one of the best Wildcats at the plate this season. He capped off a solid offensive season by hitting a game-winning home run in the bottom of the 10th against ETSU on Sunday. The win secured a playoff spot for Davidson, who were in jeopardy of not making the postseason after two losses to the Bucs on Saturday.

IMAC Softball Wednesday

While the varsity sports close off their seasons, the intramurals are still going strong. This week is pivotal for some teams, as they try to grab higher seeds in the tournaments which begin next week.