@ Sophomore Stephen Marshall sets up from the line against UNCG. Marshall was seven for ten from the stripe and
had twenty points in the Wildcats’ 76-59 victory. By Michael J. Kruse Senior Staff Writer

Ali Ton was right where the Wildcats wanted him at the end of Saturday’s game against UNC Greensboro — on
the bench.

Men’s basketball beats UNCG again

Since Dec. 20 at SMU, notching 14 points and 11 boards. And Ebong chipped in with 16 and nine, continuing
his hot play of late. Overall, Davidson outrebounded the Spartans 48-39.

“When you get that kind of performance from three post players, it’s a real good sign at this time of
year,” said coach Bob McKillop.

After escaping with a one-point win Feb. 7 in Greensboro, Davidson used a stifling defensive performance to top the Spartans
76-59 in the rematch at Belk Arena. The Wildcats were led by post players Stephen Marshall, Landry Kosmalski, and Ben
Ebong, as the post players formed a virtually unstoppable triple threat in the Wildcats' paint. Marshall again tied his career
high with 20 points — the 6-foot-8 center has now reached that plateau three times this season — and added
eight rebounds. Kosmalski recorded his third double-double of the year, and first since Dec. 20 at SMU, notching 14 points
and 11 boards. And Ebong chipped in with 16 and nine, continuing his hot play of late. Overall, Davidson outrebounded
the Spartans 48-39.

Such aggressive interior play allowed the Wildcats to make 45 trips to the free throw line, by far a season
best. “Their inside players posted us, and we either fouled them or they scored or they got offensive rebounds,” said
an exasperated UNCG coach Randy Peele. “They play extremely hard and are an extremely physical basketball team. If you don’t
match that, you’re going to get beat.”

Although it didn’t look that way with six minutes before halftime. Thanks to a 16-2 UNCG run, the Spartans held
an impressive 28-18 lead with 6:17 left in the first half. After a Davidson timeout, though, the Wildcats pieced together
an 11-0 run to close the half. Despite shooting a miserable 30.8 percent from the floor in the first 20
minutes, Davidson managed to turn the game around.

See Basketball on page 11

Sally McMurray

Shape public opinion across campus. Write for spring sports. Call Bratton Holmes (6725), Brian Mayerhoffer (6525), or Doug Cutting (6646).

Swimmers defend Southern States title

By WILL BRADSHAW Staff Writer

The T-shirt swimmer Jay Rosenquest was donning at Cannon Pool on Feb. 14 read “Southern States ‘98: Business as Usual.”
However, heading into the final three events, it was unclear if the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams would
take care of their “usual business” and repeat as Southern States champions.

“This year was a lot harder,” head coach Rich DeSelm said. “I had told the team at our first meeting
that repeating would be more challenging than winning the first time. We had talked about how we shouldn’t be surprised
if we were down after the first day (when the men stood in fourth place, and the women third). We
took the attitude that we had to be way better than everybody else in the next four sessions.”

That attitude paid off, as both teams vaulted into first place during the evening session on the second day. Still,
with only the 200 breast, 200 fly, and 400 free relay remaining on the third and final day, the women
were locked in a dead heat with Evansville and Louisville.

Baseball
USC 13, Wildcats 4

Men’s basketball
Wildcats 79, UNC-Greensboro 59
Wildcats 67, ETSU 47

Women’s basketball
Wildcats 83, W. Carolina 58

Wrestling
Appalachian State 33, Wildcats 12
The Citadel 35, Wildcats 9
UT-Chattanooga 40, Wildcats 6

Men’s & Women’s Swimming and Diving
First place in Southern States Tournament

Men’s Tennis
Wildcats 5, Francis Marion 0
USC 7, Wildcats 2and the men trailed Georgia Southern by 16. But the Wildcats poured it on in the last
two individual races (200 breast and 200 fly) to create some breathing room between them and their closest competitors. On
the women’s side, Beth Wilson (2:27.30), Karen Fritchie (2:30.32), and Erin Woodall (2:34.69) claimed fourth, sixth, and 14th respectively in
the breaststroke; while Kathleen Paffenroth (2:10.60), Jennifer Howard (2:18.87), and Mary Noel George (2:18.70) grabbed third, eighth, and 12th in
the fly, pushing their lead over Louisville to 16.5 with only the relay remaining. “I was nervous, especially the last
day,” triple winner Mary Shell Brosche said. “For me, I knew I was going to have a race in the
200 back. In the end, we still had to get up and swim the relay, and I was pretty nervous
about that.” The relay team of Brosche, Elissa Weddle, Britta Toleman, and Alison Beebe needed sixth to secure a win,
but they swam like they didn’t know. The group cruised past the Louisville team (6th, See Swimming on page 10).

JOHN PASTEL
Men’s Tennis ° Sr. * #1 Singles

Pastel defeated the fifth-ranked player in the nation, Vladimir Pavicevic of the University of South Carolina Sunday in Columbia, South
Carolina. Pastel would not be intimidated by USC’s top player. He destroyed the Yugoslavian star in straight sets, 6-3, 6-2.
Pastel proves that the Davidson tennis team will not be underrated.

Baseball takes two of three
By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After dropping their first two games of the season to national powerhouses Duke and South Carolina, Davidson looked to rebound
against the Cincinnati Bearcats. This weekend the Wildcats showed why they will be a force in the Southern Conference. While
Davidson lost to the Bearcats 9-3 on Friday, they came back with 12-7 and 8-0 wins on Saturday and Sunday.

The highlight of the weekend was clearly Ryan Stroker’s brilliant performance on Sunday. In his first collegiate start, Stroker went
seven shutout innings, giving up six walks and a mere five hits. He also struck out five. “To pitch like
that in his first start, all you can say is that it (Stroker’s performance) was outstanding. He threw strikes, made
great pitches, and was able to get out of any tough situations,” said assistant coach Chris Pollard. “Ryan has worked
hard all year and has made the mechanical adjustments necessary to get where he is now.”

On Sunday, Davidson hit Cincinnati starter Nolan Landy hard and early. While Brian Joyce tripled in the first, Stewart Sloan
doubled in the second, and Mike DeSimone doubled in the fourth, Davidson was unable to capitalize on any of these
opportunities. Still, Stroker was able to keep the game scoreless with defensive help and the ability to pitch out of
several jams. Due to two walks and a passed ball, the Bearcats had men on second and third and no
one out in the top of the fourth. Stroker came up big as he got Cincinnati first baseman Greg Dikos
to line out to Drew Williams. He followed this up by striking out Matt Bechtol and Anthony Snowell. See Baseball
on page 11.

Men’s Basketball vs. App. State
Thursday ¢ 7:30

In this pivotal regular season game, Davidson goes up against the number one team in the Southern Conference. The Wildcats
defeated App. State in the first meeting this season, and now have a chance to sweep the season series with
the Mountaineers.
