Give me your young, your smart, your sleep-deprived masses... Davidson what? Hello, once again I am here to waste a
little more of your time, which could be better spent battling vigilante Catholic nun motorcycle gangs. I don’t know how
many of you noticed, but in last week’s column, the little title under my name read, “Student Columnist.” It previously
read “A Fresh Opinion.” I don’t know whether my opinions are no longer fresh or what, but apparently I have
lost my title. Well, seeing as I am no longer fresh and new, I feel I should take the position
of an old grizzled student curmudgeon and write a column about all of the odd things I have seen at
Davidson. Now, I know what you guys are thinking: “What in the world could this freshman moron have to say?
He’s been here all of a month!” Well, in case you hadn’t figured it out, I’m very opinionated, and it
doesn’t take me long to form these opinions. For example, I have some very strong opinions regarding an earlier column
posted by a very uninformed, unimaginative, ignorant, and other larger, polysyllabic words, white male. However, I will not go into
that right now. Where was I before I went on that short tirade? Ah yes, the idiosyncrasies of Davidson. I
think that the easiest place to start is the Commons. It took me only two meals to figure out that
we have some of the most interesting silverware on the face of the planet. Now, I’m not talking about its
intricate design, or the fact that it was taken from some 17th Century Spanish galleon, but the fact that the
knives have their own electromagnetic field. The next time you go to the Commons to eat, or play handball, or
whatever you choose to do there, pick up a knife and place its handle on another piece of silverware. The
knife will actually pick up the other metal item. This amazed me the first time I tried it, and I
still am not 100 percent sure as to what caused this phenomenon. The second odd thing that I have noticed
about the Commons is the fact that light is not one of its strong suits. It always seems that whenever
I eat there, at least half of the lights are turned off. The place always looks as though it were
created by Tim Burton. I don’t know about you, but I like to see my food while I eat it.
This is not to say that the food in Vail Commons is anything less than high-quality, full of vitamins and
minerals, and all-around goodness. Boy, I sure could go for some of that exquisite Commons food now! Here’s a general
rule of thumb for all of you who have not had an opportunity to serve in the food industry. Don’t
ever tick off the people who handle your food, trust me. It runs along much the same line as don’t
ever ask what’s in a hot dog — you just don’t want to know. However, back to the lighting problem
in the Commons, which is so bad even Bob Vila couldn’t fix it with some well-placed track lighting. I always
get the feeling that they leave the lights off so that you won’t see your food move while on the
plate. Does it amuse anyone else that the menu for the Commons for the week will be lasagna, followed by
linguini, and finally followed by spaghetti? I don’t have a problem with reusing the pasta, but I would use the
same judgment method with that as I do with all leftovers. When the food becomes sentient and begins to try
and escape from the plate, it’s a pretty good indication that you might want to begin to thaw the “meat
of the week” in the freezer. This next point is one that really got to me when I first came
here, and as a matter of fact, it still annoys me. Look folks, it’s called a test; not a review,
but a test! A review is something you have before a test. You can’t have a review for a review,
that’s more redundant than Jim Carrey’s character portrayals in the first few years of his career. Don’t get me wrong,
I love “Ace Ventura,” but seeing him in the next three movies that Jim did got a little old. However,
I was very proud of Jim for doing “The Truman Show,” not to mention surprised. Having Jim Carrey do a
semi-serious movie is like seeing Richard Simmons playing Conan the Barbarian. There are some things for which there is no
suitable euphemism: the plague, George Burns in a Speedo, and a test. There is no way around the disturbing nature
of them, so I propose that we call a spade a spade, and just revert back to calling these measured
learning experiences from hell tests. I think that this will avoid confusion and frustration, or at least it will make
me happy, and when you get right down to it, isn’t that the most important thing? Well, looking at the
clock above me, it’s saying, “Alright, Cort, you've wasted enough of their time, now just go back to your cell.”
The clock really is saying that, by the way; I’ve been trying that whole I-don’t-need-sleep thing. It isn’t working well.
I’ve pumped enough caffeine into my body to support an AA meeting during Mardi Gras. That’s it for me folks,
have a great week, and I'll see y’all ‘round.

Davidson not honoring Don’t practice the art of avoidance

The 1998 Davidson College Homecoming celebrates 25 years of coeducation at Davidson. As an alumna of Davidson, I am thrilled
that I and many other girls had the opportunity to attend Davidson. Davidson women, like Davidson men, earn their place
at Davidson College with God-given talent and moral character. Davidson students spend four years stretching for the best within themselves
intellectually and ethically. As a result, Davidson College profoundly marks the character of Davidson students. Whether our lives lead us
to medical school or motherhood, the quiet pride earned in Chambers’s shadow remains with us. Recent Davidson girls such as
myself owe a debt of gratitude to the first classes of Davidson girls. The program of events for the 1998
Homecoming fails to commemorate the contributions, sacrifices, and achievements of Davidson women. The events begin with a lecture by Gloria
Steinem. Steinem’s contributions to the Davidson community are unclear to me; she did not open Davidson to women as it
should. Individuals’ women’s God-given abilities and grit opened Davidson’s doors to girls, just as each student (male and female) earns
admittance today. Evidently, Steinem’s presence is an effort to evoke the era in which girls began attending Davidson. We should
evoke an era with the best of that era; productive, influential ladies such as Jeanne Kirkpatrick or Justice Sandra Day
O’Connor would better honor Davidson women. Unfortunately, in 25 years, we have traveled backwards. Kirkpatrick and O’Connor were not concerned
with the bedroom, but with the ballot box. The schedule of events suggests that what occurs in Davidson women’sHere is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Bedrooms supersedes what we do in the other 16 hours of the day. The schedule of events includes a presentation
by Chickspeare and a FLAG reception. Chickspeare is an all-women acting group that appears at gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transsexual
festivals such as OutCharlotte98. The constituency of the Friends of Lesbians and Gays reception is determined by the bedroom, not
the boardroom. Twenty-five years ago, Davidson women wanted men to accept women’s mental abilities. Although Davidson degrees are earned with
brains, not breasts, it appears that women still do not accept Davidson women on the basis of their abilities. After
25 years of women at Davidson, surely there is more to celebrate.

As you unassumingly saunter on while your mind is racing, the moment of truth is upon you, and the fight-or-flight
syndrome kicks in. The eternal question forces you to a screeching halt: to look or not to look? Then it
happens — that brief moment you either acknowledge or simply walk on by. More telling than body language, it’s easy
to type people you pass by their greeting. The freshmen and freshwomen, either well-conditioned or scarred from Orientation, eagerly glance
in your direction (searching for a name tag?) or lower their eyes and shuffle past. The seniors, (well, when you
occasionally see a senior walking somewhere), usually do not deign to look at you because they feel you are blessed
by their presence. The juniors are a whole different story. They really don’t notice you because they are abroad either
physically or mentally. Of course, the athletes are too tired from their exhausting practice to notice you, and anyway, their
increased muscle mass is much more interesting. Certain brave individuals who refuse to succumb to these obstacles and greet everyone
whose path they cross deserve major props and have my utmost admiration.

I have found that I personally espouse a variety of cop-outs to avoid greeting someone. I suddenly have to tuck
my hair behind my ear, check my watch, intently study my Cat Card (the picture never gets any better), shift
my bookbag strap, apply chapstick, tie my errant shoelace, or focus on the current cloud formation. Many times I perform
a sequence of these maneuvers. I silently cheer if they turn into a building before I have to pass them.
I am embarrassed to admit there are times when I even practice the “shaft.” I usually pick a spot in
the distance to the right because I personally feel a complete head turn is downright rude. Like rock/paper/scissors, this technique
only works effectively when both people turn away at the same moment. When only one person implements the “shaft” method,
then it truly is a shaft, and a painful one at that.

The alternative, ludicrous as it may seem, is two people actually greeting each other. It’s a good feeling, especially if
the two don’t know each other. I love it when you time it just right, look at them for that
instant, smile, say hey, and keep walking. In 1959, the final of the so-called Freshmen Rules was a requirement for
freshmen to tip their hats and speak to all they met on campus. This is a great rule. If greetings
were still mandated for all members of the student body, just think of the possibilities! Some things, like the Laundry,
are traditions that deserve the upkeep they entail. Plus, it gets easier with practice. I’ve found that in a group
(the preferred number is three), you’ve got a sporting chance at least one will make eye contact. So don’t be
shy; refuse to be victims of the “shaft” method any longer! If you pass me, you’d better believe I’m going
to do my darnedest to smile and say hey. It’s all about making Davidson better — one smile at a
time.

Complexity into simplicity: the Davidson feeling

You’re walking along when, out of the clear blue sky, you spot someone 25 feet ahead of you. Completely blasé,
I was leaving for orientation last year, someone more wise than myself told me that I should keep some sort
of record of my freshman year at Davidson. Although the guy who told me this didn’t go to Davidson, he
spoke out of regret since he did nothing of the sort during his college years. While my friend did not
come out and say it, he implied that trying to remember what had happened and how he had felt at
different points while away at school were becoming more difficult as the years passed. So, heeding his advice I have
kept a journal of my Davidson experience since last August. Some of what I wrote last year found its way
into the Davidsonian, some of what I wrote I shared with friends, but most of what I wrote I kept
and will always keep to myself. And though I am a sophomore this year I have not stopped writing because
my journal has become an integral part of my life and not just a part of my time at Davidson.

After all of the struggles I wrote and talked my way through last year, at some point this summer I
moved away from the turmoil that so dominated what I felt and into a calmer approach to the years to
come and to my life. But, as last week ended, I could feel “it” happening again — a change and
a feeling that comes with this school, a “Davidson” feeling that I perpetually find inside of me. “It” takes over
thought, skews emotion and makes me lose sight of simple pleasure. “It” makes me read complexity into simplicity and forces
me to demand, not ask, more of myself. The feeling I call “it” can be characterized as “daily pressures” or
“stress,” but I think that is too simple a definition because “it” truly is an individual, incomprehensible need to do,
to accomplish. I am now aware, fortunately, that the process is as important as a positive result and that I
need to go slowly, examining each step I take, and in many cases, re-examining what is most important to me
and therefore what the focus of my life should be. A person I got to know well this summer put
it perfectly: “we must make a conscious effort” in order to stay connected with those people and those activities most
important to us, never mindful of what you should be doing otherwise. Therefore, I struggle to retain that attitude I
had during the summer — an attitude of calm and thoughtful action, of flexibility, and of satisfaction. I hope these
concepts do not disappear as they encounter Davidson College classes and school-year commitments. Later, when years have passed and I
can neither remember the exact time nor the exact place I wrote this, the “Davidson” feeling will most likely be
foreign to my mind and to my consciousness. I am sure, however, that I won’t be a regretful man looking
back, wishing I knew what it felt like to be under college pressure, to be so aware of the ideas
playing themselves out in my head and to be so alive. I write so I will remember.

---
