By W. Howard Z. Goolsberry, Esq. Arts & Living Editor

A recent article in the Charlotte Observer revealed that Davidson College was the only area institution that had no scheduled
commencement speaker. College leaders took action toward rectifying this embarrassing situation over the weekend, inviting performing artist Wesley Willis to
speak at graduation on May 17. Willis reportedly accepted the gig late yesterday afternoon.

According to the Observer, even UNC-Pembroke managed to land a speaker as impressive as Bill Cosby, former star of NBC’s
“The Cosby Show” and voice of Fat Albert. The administration, eager to keep pace with one of North Carolina’s lowliest
institutions, sought to continue Pembroke’s trend. “We contacted Prince, Doug E. Doug, and Tone Loc, but they were all booked
solid. Then we found Wesley. We feel that Mr. Willis will lend an air of jocularity to the ceremony, an
air that Davidson so often lacks. It’ll be a great day for the college.”

In a recent interview with the Davidphonian, Willis abounded with enthusiasm and praise for the college. “Davidson College is bad
to the max,” Wesley said. “Those students are some educated rappers. They can really rap their asses off. They can
really knock it out. They can really whup a horse’s ass.”

Willis, who stands 6’5” tall and is diagnosed chronic schizophrenic, began writing songs in 1992. Perhaps because all of his
songs are scored for solo voice and Casio keyboard and all sound exactly alike, he has been able to record
at least 400 songs and 20 albums on the Alternative Tentacles label and others. Among his most famous works include
“I Wupped Batman’s Ass,” “Jesus is the Answer,” “Rock Saddam Hussein’s Ass,” “I’m Sorry that I Got Fat,” and “Rock
n Roll McDonald’s.”

This year’s commencement promises to be Davidson’s most invigorating. “As long as the voices in my head don’t talk to
me vulgar,” Wesley said, “the jam session will be excellent. The rock and roll will be perfect. My speech will
really whup a snow leopard’s ass.” In a trademark closing plug, Willis stated, “Rock over London, rock on Chicago —
The Davidphonian! It’s ‘The Nation’s Third Worst College Weekly!”

TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1998

Wesley Willis smiles for the camera.

The state of the bathrooms
By JEN DENNIS Guest Writer

To begin, I want to explain that I am a vindictive person. Make me mad, watch your back. And I
know that I am far from being the only person on this campus who proudly possesses this characteristic. I have
been the unfortunate victim of many a vengeful act, varying in degrees of seriousness and originality on the avenger’s part.
Vengeful acts are plentiful here. Since I’ve arrived, I’ve heard of a few tricks. For example, there’s the classic silent
treatment or badmouthing of an individual who has made you mad. Disgusting examples, such as peeing on a person’s pillowcase
or rigging a huge bucket of water outside another’s door for a cheery morning wake-up surprise, have certainly proved to
be interesting and entertaining stories.

But another spiteful action exists on this campus. Unfortunately, only those living in dorms are capable of using its full
potential. But being a lucky member of the dorming situation, I have both suffered from and caused this simple pleasure.
It is, plainly stated, the wonderful repercussions of toilet flushing.

I'll grant you that not only does toilet flushing seem ridiculous, random, and utterly harmless for our environment, it doesn’t
appear to accomplish anything. This is where you, my ignorant reader, are horribly mistaken. Anyone who has showered in a
dorm bathroom knows that toilet flushing is a humorous retort for anyone who has mildly offended you. (Serious offenders can
stop reading here and refer to the...Previously discussed "disgusting examples" or go off in search of inspiration elsewhere. I am
not writing to initiate out-and-out war. The sudden burst of scalding water amidst the previously pleasant temperature is an awful
shock for the unwary. Timing is everything. In order to accomplish the seemingly harmless act successfully, you must be confident
that your victim is the only person currently showering in the bathroom. Simply walking into a bathroom and randomly flushing
does nothing to your object of anger. Patience is definitely required. Also, you must be certain that your potential victim
is comfortable in the shower. If the person is male, assume that the second the water hits his skin, he
is comfortable. If the person is female, give her 10 to 20 seconds, to be safe. Next, feel free to
position yourself in an empty stall and begin flushing. The first flushings shouldn’t yield high satisfaction, as the person will
suffer silently, assuming that it is simply an innocent mistake. Each flushing, however, will increase satisfaction for you, while sharpening
the suspicions of the sucker in the shower. Unfortunately, this flushing method inevitably concludes with being caught. In the past,
I have been so tickled with the thought of my victims’ discomfort that I have been unable to suppress my
giggling. Confessions are unnecessary when you are discovered laughing uncontrollably when the victim peeks around the curtain. The nicknames that
are thrown at me upon discovery only add to the entertainment value. Consequently, if you can control your emotions, the
potential for escape is yours. And if you can accomplish such a feat, not only do I give you props,
I would love to hear the story myself. Until then, I will keep giggling and flushing, and my unintentional victims
in other showers on other floors can continue cursing my immaturity.

By WILL White
Guest Writer

Have you seen this man? These are pictures of Scott “The Beserker” Hutchins. You may have seen him shuffling around
campus with an angry scowl on his face. Your first reaction was probably to chuckle to yourself and thank your
deity of choice that you weren't tall, skinny, and red-headed. But beware! The Beserker harbors intense, irrational hatred toward a
great many people. This hatred may be manifested any number of ways, from smashed closet doors to attempted defenestration. If
any of the following statements apply to you, you should avoid Beserker at all costs: you dislike the Pixies, you
dislike Pink Floyd, you are fat (>95 lbs for women of any height, weight limit for men unknown), you are
a Mexican woman, you talk in class, you have looked at him, you are on the cross country team, you
are nice to him, you have waved to him, even once, between the years 1995 and 1998, you are ugly,
you are an attractive woman who is currently wearing more than one article of clothing, you have rhythm, you have
ever laughed in his presence, you dislike the Beserker, or you like the Beserker.

Single senior female in search of two ready and able, strapping Davidson males willing to be subjects of my pleasure-seeking
experiment. Must be able to share. Experience not necessary, but preferred.

ARTISTIC IMPRESSIONS BY BRATTON

Senior woman seeking suspect. APB for YSB (aka, Yellow Satchel Boy). Clothing optional. Yellow satchel required.

Lost: black satin and lace panties. Last seen in F105. If found, call me.

Davidson woman in search of real man. Davidson boys need not apply.

Composition—Microsoft Paintbrush
Composition-Gray Red by Piet Mondrian, by Bratton Holmes,
This is world famous artist uncultured sports writer
my square 1935 1998
inch approximate value—$1.2 million approximate value—$19.95 plus tax, frame included
