THE DAVIDPHONIAN
By Norman Nimrop Awax, M.P.
Guest Writer

In a move that shocked only select portions of the college, the Davidson College Board of Trustees voted this week to eliminate the Department of Sociology, thus clearing the way for much-needed dormitory space in the basement of the Andrew J. Carnegie Guest House. The meeting, held Sunday afternoon around a large booth at Chile Ristras, lasted almost two hours—not because the decision was difficult, but because the trustees were having a blast talking trash and drinking their margaritas.

“Basically, what we have here is a very simple problem requiring a very simple solution,” spoke the trustee who drank Tanqueray. “We need more space to house incoming freshmen. Sociology rots and tarnishes the minds of dozens of bright Davidson students every year. I see no reason why we can’t just kill two birds with one stone on this one. [Burp].”

An energetic throng of eager, inebriated trustees gave an enthusiastic cheer, with several even going so far as to exclaim, “Down with Weber!” and “The Great Social Transformation SUCKS!”

“Hey, pipe down bitches, I’m trying to concentrate on eating my multi-colored nachos over here and somebody’s [expletive] racket’s making it pretty [expletive] difficult, so how ‘bout y’all shut the [expletive] up,” quipped junior Seth Alley, who took up permanent residence in the restaurant last week.

The move obviously outraged the sociology department. “It seems to me that the agents of socialization, i.e. the Board of Trustees, could have found a less crucial department to annihilate,” said one professor. “Their collective behavior represents an ethnocentrism on the behalf of Davidson’s other departments, probably due to cultural lag and the principle of cumulation. We believe that the study of sociology is crucial for any student who aspires to improve his intergenerational mobility and subvert the trend in occupational inheritance.”

“All true,” a colleague affirmed. “As sociology goes, so goes Davidson’s organic solidarity. We’ll be transformed from an agrarian society into a hunting and gathering society before we know what’s hit us.”

All three sociology professors expressed feelings of what they called “job loss anxiety.” However, the trustees showed no remorse. “As we see it, we’re doing Davidson students a big favor, keeping them from wasting valuable time and tuition money on the study of how ‘The Man’ oppresses us all. Is this time and money well spent? The simple answer to this, as many of my colleagues will agree, is ‘No.’”

Students seem to agree. In a recent poll of Davidson students who’ve taken a sociology class, 78% say they would have gained more useful knowledge watching “Thundercats” and “Moesha” reruns on the WB.

The sociology professors have stated that they plan to go to President Bobby Vagt seeking an appeal. If denied, then they’ll take their case to Dean Shandley. “We’re gonna fight this as far up the totem pole as possible,” said the determined triumvirate. “All the way up to Foster (Haselden, SGA senator), if we have to.”

The trustees, who had expected some blowback, have shown little signs of fear. “In the immortal words of Soul Asylum, we’re just like a ‘runaway train, tearin’ up the track and never lookin’ back.’ We have the money. We have the power. We’re omnipotent, and we run this college. Hell, we own this college.” And from the looks of things last Sunday afternoon at the Ristras, they’ll drink to that.

Plaidtones to draft Menkhaus?
By Jay Scanlan
Guest Writer

Yesterday, Davidson was awash with rumors that the Plaidtones, Davidson’s own Top 40 Rock Ensemble, is threatening to stage a revival tour. When contacted, the illustrious Ohio-native leader of the group claimed that a replacement had already been found for those crooners who have departed the campus. Speculation has already turned to Associate Professor of Political Science Kenneth Menkhaus.

A member of the Plaidtones who wished to be identified only as “BoBerry” was asked to comment on Menkhaus’s imminent appearance with the group. “I can neither confirm nor deny those rumors.” She continued, “However, no one would notice a prolonged absence by (Menkhaus), since he is scheduled to be on sabbatical next year.”

When asked to comment, Menkhaus reaffirmed that his plans for next year are to travel to Africa. “Yep, God-willing, I'll be in Africa the entire year.” Addam Marcotte, a sophomore political science major, talked with the spoken-word maestro today. Marcotte said “that as far as Dr. Baritone was concerned, Dr. Menkhaus is definitely going on sabbatical next year. I had no reason to doubt him.”

Marcotte is not the only poli sci major to believe the official party line. Andrew Sicora, a senior, stated categorically that “Dr. Menkhaus is definitely going to Africa next year.”

Evidence that Menkhaus is actually going into secret training for the group’s revival concert abounds, however. When the famous copy of the Plaidtones’ live music video was reviewed at a recent picnic, Menkhaus was noticeably absent. Sophomore Britta Toleman observed Menkhaus leaving the party before the video was to be viewed. “He certainly did look suspicious and uncomfortable,” said Toleman, when the subject of the Plaidtones was broached.

Several of Menkhaus’s advisees are also skeptical of his travel plans for next year. Ryan Gist, a senior, said that “Dr. Menkhaus is so outstanding” that he would be the only logical choice for membership in the Plaidtones.Junior Andrew Marvin believes that Menkhaus’s supposed travel plans are “pretty shady.” He correctly asserts that “Africa is hot, so why would anyone choose to spend a year baking there? He could also be shot.” It is possible that Menkhaus needs an entire year for voice lessons, as well as to conduct a lengthy search for appropriate Plaidtones attire. Andrew Sicora asked the question that is on everyone’s mind: “The Plaidtones? Who the hell are the Plaidtones?” Further, why are the Plaidtones conscripting a rising star of the faculty for a year of intense training? Does it really take that long to buy the group’s signature clothing? Only time and vast quantities of beverage will be able to reveal the truth. Meanwhile, the Political Science Department waits with foaming anticipation.

By TROGLODYTE VALDEZ
Guest Writer

Many of you probably scoff at the idea of coed rooms at Davidson. An informal poll I conducted received responses such as, “That will never happen at a Presbyterian school,” “Isn’t there a law against that sort of thing?,” "Not while Fahd Gul is Senior Class President,” and a variety of comments regarding Kurt Holmes that should not be printed in a decent family newspaper such as this. In fact, some of those comments would make even Bob Guccione blush. But I digress.

Solely because I was forced to share a room with a member of the same sex this year, my grades have declined to the point that I may not be able to return to Davidson next semester. Some of you may know my roommate, whose anonymity I shall conceal by calling him simply “Scott H.” (if you don’t know him, don’t worry — he probably hates you anyway). Many probably think him a cold, bitter man, devoid of any carnal desire. To the outside world, he is quite heartless. But when our door closes and locks at night, he becomes a virtual Casanova, able to incite passion in the tight juicy loins of any man. Unfortunately, he picked me.

When I first agreed to be Scott H.’s roommate, I knew little about him except that he liked to run and he was moderately messy. Apparently, he was already plotting our yearlong tryst. At first, I was able to resist his soft cooing and sexy bedroom eyes. But as the fall semester wore on, I tired of resisting and eventually succumbed to his charm. By mid-October I was a slave to his throbbing purple ramrod of love. Soon I was giving up my studies so he could ride me roughshod into the wee hours of the night, giving me sweet backdoor pleasure as no man had before. My grades began to slip, but I was helpless. I tried sleeping in friends’ rooms, but I was still drawn to Scott H.’s sweet embrace, and I found myself sneaking back into my own room at night to be with him.

Now, as the year winds down, I find that I am about to fail out of Davidson. I know I should give up Scott H. so I can pass my exams, but I cannot bring myself to push him away. So I beg you, the students of Davidson, to prevent this from ever happening to any other unsuspecting student. Pressure the administration into allowing coed rooms. If only I had been able to room with an attractive young woman, I would still be at the top of my class academically. Although I’m sure not every student here is tempted by his or her own roommate, it surely happens enough to warrant some serious changes in RLO policy.

Coffeehouse. Or literally, Coffee 900 Room. 8:15 a.m. - Exams. 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room. 1998 DC Annual Stu Art Ex. That's what it says on the Davidson College Calendar, 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. at the VAC.

Cinco de Mayo Party. Because it's the 5th of May, and it’s fun to pretend we're Mexican so that we actually have a reason to give a damn. Party will feature Latin dancing and more. Please come. 5:30 - 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Nice and quiet, and smoky. 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Senior Bouzouki Recital. 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Twenty-one Year Old Night. Last chance for you elder kiddies to drink with your favorite professors while they “flirt” with you. 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Karate Study Break. Wax on, wax off: 9:00 - 10:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Ice Cream Study Break. Brain freezes, just in time for exams. 10:00 - 11:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

On the Scene at Davidson COLLEGE

Exams. Well.

Cosmic Prayer for Guidance featuring Aynsley Dunbar. 10:17 p.m. by the Old Well.

Call your mom.

Reading Day. Read. Study. Read. Sleep. Eat. Drink. Read. Sleep. Study. Sleep.

Massage Study Break. Aaaaaahhhhh. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

DCPC Cookie Break. Cookies baked for you by loving Presbyterians. You're predestined to eat them! 10:00 - 11:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Kayak Rolling. Time’s up. Of course now you have an urge to roll some kayaks like you haven't felt all year. It’s just one of those things.

Vegetable Sacrifice. Ritual dancing and legume worship with Eagle Scout Will White. 12:00 midnight on Chambers Lawn.

More exams.

RBI Baseball showdown. Red Sox vs. Giants, Round 168. Evening in Little 109.

Randy’s Den of Love. Party at Skattum’s... BYOB (he's just a freshman). ALL NIGHT LONG! in Little 302.