@ Stephen Marshall, pictured here last season against Marshall University, had 20 points and went 8-9 from the free throw line in Saturday’s win over App. State.

Hey, Buzz, grow up
By Daniel Motz
Senior Staff Writer

BOONE — After a truly gut-wrenching basketball game here on Saturday, the postgame press conference should have focused on key plays, clutch performances, and big shots. Instead, the main topic of discussion? Basketballs.

After fielding a few questions after his team’s 77-71 loss to Davidson, Appalachian’s coach Buzz Peterson went on a tirade, apparently providing an excuse for the defeat. App. St. has a Nike sponsorship. The Mountaineers receive clothes, apparel, and basketballs from Swoosh. They practice — and previously played their games — with Nike basketballs.

“I have never seen a bunch complain about basketballs like they do,” said Peterson, referring to Davidson. “There is no written rule claiming what brand of ball to use in conference play.”

Actually, Buzz, you are wrong. Wilson, not Nike, is the sponsor of the Southern Conference. In a league memorandum, dated July 1, 1996, it clearly states, “The entire Conference must adopt a Wilson game basketball and use the basketball in all conference games for three years.”

Perhaps if Buzz knew a rule existed, he would have ceased his complaining. But he didn’t know and he continued whining.

“Maybe they are envious because we have a Nike sponsorship,” he moaned. “If they want a sponsorship that badly, I can have them get in touch with my old roommate (referring to his former North Carolina teammate and number one Nike sponsor Michael Jordan).”

Classy, Buzz, very classy. In fact, Davidson does have a Nike sponsorship — it even received the sponsorship before App. St. The Wildcats just have enough sense to practice and play with the brand of basketballs that is sponsored by the league. Apparently, Buzz, you don’t.

Men’s basketball
Wildcats 77, App. State 71

Women’s basketball
Wildcats 72, Georgia Southern 65
Wildcats 83, ETSU 77

Wrestling
Wildcats 34, Anderson College 18
Norfolk State 25, Wildcats 21
Campbell 23, Wildcats 20

Swimming and diving
Men 136, Duke 98
Men 168, Georgia Tech 66
Duke 129, Women 109
Women 156, NC A&T 46

It was only fitting that Davidson’s big men made such a difference. While the Wildcat guards sputtered somewhat, their frontcourt mates played with poise, confidence, and attitude, delivering the necessary moxie in Saturday’s monumental 77-71 win over Southern Conference frontrunner Appalachian St. at Varsity Gym.

“We’ve reviewed what we’re going to need to make a stretch run,” said coach Bob McKillop after the game, “and certainly pounding the ball inside is going to be a key factor.”

So pound they did. And the Wildcats’ quartet of post players — Chadd Holmes, Stephen Marshall, Landry Kosmalski, and Ben Ebong — responded to the challenge. Marshall, making his first start since the Siena game Jan. 8, tied his career high with 20 points, matching his season-opening performance at Duke. Holmes did not miss a shot, shooting 6-for-6 from the floor, 1-for-1 from three-point land, and 3-for-3 from the line in tallying 16 points in just 15 minutes of action.

“Chadd gave us a great boost off the bench,” McKillop understated.

Kosmalski, who has struggled this year to live up to the hype he created with league freshman of the year honors last season, notched nine points, including a three from the right wing that tied the game at 60 with 6:49 to go and a soft fall-away jumper in the lane to give the Wildcats the lead on the ensuing possession.

And Ben Ebong, Davidson’s bundle of instant charisma off the bench, led the squad with seven rebounds and scored five points — the fourth and fifth of which came on a monster dunk off an assist that gave the Wildcats a 70-68 advantage with less than a minute remaining.

“They were much better in the post than I thought they were,” Appalachian coach Buzz Peterson said. “They played a very physical game. Holmes and Marshall were the keys to the game. We could not stop them. They were exceptional down low. Those two guys really kicked our butts today.”

Something Holmes and Marshall, along with Kosmalski and Ebong, as a unit, are capable of doing to any Southern team on any night. The key to that type of consistency?

“Opportunity and confidence,” Holmes replied.

And McKillop and his staff know full well that with 50 points of production from their can-be fearsome foursome down low, the Wildcats aren’t going to lose many more in Southern play. If any.

Wildcats send message in 77-71 victory over Appalachian State
By Daniel Motz
Senior StaffWriter

BOONE, N.C. — The men’s basketball team made a statement here Saturday afternoon. Davidson — the winningest team in the league for the past two seasons and the preseason favorite to win the conference again this year — is still the team to beat in the Southern Conference.

“We haven’t been playing our best basketball, but I think we're starting to now,” said Chadd Holmes, who scored 16 points on a perfect six-of-six shooting from the field. “Appalachian has to know it still has to go through Davidson to win the Southern Conference.”

The Wildcats handed Appalachian St. their first conference loss of the season, 77-71, in a thriller. Davidson fought back several times in the final minutes to steal the victory from the Mountaineers. Trailing 68-64 with less than three minutes remaining in the contest, the Wildcats went on a 10-0 spurt to claim the victory.

“We made big plays all day,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop. “When we were up, when we were down, and when it was even.”

And no two plays were bigger than a pair of dunks in the game’s final moments. The first was a Stephen Marshall — who tied his career-high with 20 points — follow off of a missed Davor Halbauer fastbreak layup. That tied the game at 68. On Davidson’s ensuing possession, the Wildcats’ ball movement dissected the Mountaineers’ zone. The result was a Ben Ebong throw-down off of an assist from Ali Ton to give Davidson the lead for good.

“It was a slip and cross screen,” said McKillop. “Ben was able to find a seam and slip in.”

Ton, who finished with eight points, nine assists, and five steals, sealed the victory by intercepting a Tyson Patterson pass and streaking in for a layup.

After trailing 22-18 in the first half, the Wildcats went on a 12-0 run to seemingly take control. But the Mountaineers cut the Davidson lead to four at the break.

The game was scheduled as the second game of the week between these two teams, but due to the snowstorm in the western part of the state, App. St. apparently was unable to make the trip to Davidson. The game at Belk Arena, originally slated for Tuesday, was postponed until Wednesday. After Wednesday's postponement, the game is now set for Feb. 19.

DAVIDSON APPALACHIAN STATE
While it is true that Davidson is the first conference team to insist on playing with a Wilson ball — the team actually bought their own basketballs for Saturday’s game — the Wildcats, like every team in the league, have the right to play with the league-sponsored ball.

“I just wish Bob (McKillop) would have been man enough to talk about this issue with me personally,” stated Peterson.

Hey Buzz, I wish you could be man enough to lose a basketball game without offering excuses.

Totals 200 24-52 23-28 8-28 14 18 77 Totals 200 27-58 11-18 10-32 12 25 71

Men’s Swimming
The Wildcat’s victory over Duke and Georgia Tech was accentuated by Dolch setting a new school record in the 200-yard backstroke. With a time of 1:52.87, Dolch broke the record set by teammate Freddy Schnell at last year’s Southern States Tournament.

Men’s basketball
Wednesday vs. UT-Chattanooga (7:30 p.m.)
Saturday @ UNC-Greensboro (7:30 p.m.)
Monday vs. ETSU (7:30 p.m.)

Women’s basketball
Thursday @ UT-Chattanooga (7:00 p.m.)
Tuesday vs. Western Carolina (7:30 p.m.)

Wrestling
Saturday vs. Anderson, UNC-Greensboro, Norfolk State (10:00 a.m.)

Men’s & Women’s Swimming and Diving
Thursday-Saturday Southern States Championships

Both the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams are hoping to successfully defend their titles this season in Southern States when they face Georgia Southern, Louisville, and Evansville.