“The World’s Foremost College Weekly”  
ESTABLISHED 1914

“Yo quiero Taco Bell.”  
Limon explains that Chihuahua.

NEWS  
2 D Me Aix ar a... Sarah, Dave, and Erich retire. We'll go jump now.

OPINIONS  
4, 6

A&L  
7 No grinches here. Holiday Gift Market a success.

SPORTS  
12 Roundball, here we come! Women’s b-ball takes two.

Career services center buys subscription to database  
By Carrie ARTHUR  
News Editor

Since Dec. 1, the Career Services Office has subscribed to Career Search, a national database of over 900,000 potential employers. While Career Search does not list job or internship openings, Associate Director of Career Services Tony Butchello said that it “helps shorten the amount of time to find potential employers.” Career Search tells students “who’s doing what I want to do.”

Claiming that “nothing in the marketplace that I’ve seen can do anything remotely close to this,” Butchello explained that students can simply enter industries, locations, and keywords to find a list of employers in the field and geographic area they want. Students can make their searches as general as companies in a broad industrial category within the United States, or they can limit their searches to a subcategory industry with companies of a specific size and income found in a certain zip code or section of a city. From this list of potential employers, students can obtain the address, phone number, contact names, year started, size, specialty, earnings, and website address of individual organizations. Career Search also provides maps to find organizations.

Butchello said, “In the past to do that, you would have used a lot of diverse sources,” such as the printed job banks, Chamber of Commerce lists, local college and university webpages, and Yahoo. Claiming that Career Search takes “seconds and minutes as opposed to hours,” Butchello said that even after the past searches, students would not have had such an extensive list as what Career Search provides because “it’s impossible for the average student to know all of the opportunities that are out there.”

The organizations listed on Career Search are what Butchello called “niche kind of companies.” Career Search obtains their names from nationally recognized data publishers, and the list is continually updated. Although Career Search provides the name, size, and earnings or assets of a company, it does not reveal how the company or organization stands within its industry. Butchello explained that students can make general assumptions based upon the profiles by whether a company is small or large and how profitable it is. He also affirmed that all organizations listed are reputable employers.

Because the subscription to Career Search consumed a significant portion of Career Services’ library budget, only one seat is currently available to Davidson students. When one person from Davidson is using the service, no one else from Davidson can access it. For this reason, Career Services hopes to impose some limitations upon its usage. To confine the use to current Davidson students only, the password will be changed frequently and will be available only through the Career Services Office and its listserv. Butchello requested for students not to share the password with non-Davidson students because then those people would be preventing the use of Davidson students. The office also asks that students make appointments with its staff to use the service during the workday, from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. After business hours, students can access the service from any terminal, but the office would like the time online to be limited to 30 minutes.

Butchello said that he didn’t expect...

Mark your calendars!  
Committee approves MLK, Jr. Holiday

The Faculty Executive Committee has approved the celebration of Martin Luther King Day on Jan. 18, 1999. Classes are canceled for that day. The Executive Committee made these calendar adjustments to accommodate the canceled class day: During the week of Jan. 18-22, there will be no Monday classes. Instead, the schedule for that week will be rearranged: Monday classes will meet Tuesday; Tuesday classes will meet Thursday; and Thursday classes will meet...anyone to need more than 30 minutes on Career Search, and he expressed excitement that the service “extends our services in the time when students need them,” often when the office is closed. Butchello hopes to expand Davidson’s access, and he said that Career Services Director Anne Shields is currently negotiating with Career Search. He also wants to find a way to make the service available to alumni. Although Butchello is anticipating “a huge demand,” he said that the office needs “a few months to determine demands.” If the campus reacts positively to the service, Butchello thinks that expansion is possible. He even believed that the service could possibly save money: “The money we’re investing in Career Search may and probably will obsolete some of our print sources.” More importantly for Butchello, Career Search can meet students’ needs: “Ultimately, the demand for it comes from the recognition that whenever we can get good, reputable, timely information that students need out to them, we’re going to do it. I think that this is an excellent way to do that.”

In order to interest students, Butchello and Shields are contacting department chairs to arrange meetings with students. Butchello plans to meet with economics, political science, and history majors this week, and he has already met with the Biology Society. Davidson’s current subscription lasts until the end of June. As Butchello said, students’ interest will determine what happens after it expires. The Career Services already had a 30-day trial period in October, during which the focus group of students reacted well to the service.

Project Life bone marrow donors help save lives
By Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

On Nov. 17 and 18, Project Life held its ninth annual bone marrow drive. Of the 215 people who came, 205 were successfully typed. Their blood samples were then tissue tested and added to the National Registry of Bone Marrow donors. The participation this year was lower than in previous years. Ginger Bond ’99, Project Life coordinator, estimated that usually 400 people volunteer to be tested. This number includes approximately 80 percent of the freshmen class. Bond attributed the low turnout this year to “a breakdown on freshmen halls.” She said, “We would have hall information sessions, but only five or six people would be there.” In order to remedy this problem, Bond is working with Health Educator Georgia Ringle to include information about Project Life in PE 101. Bond explained, “That’s going to be a good way to make sure information gets out to all freshmen.” According to Bond, Project Life will also “step up publicity and education next year.” In order to catch the current freshmen who were not tested and would potentially volunteer, Project Life will also target the sophomore class next year. Bond said that programs on sophomore halls are possible.

Even though Project Life had faced financial problems, Bond believes that the committee would not have any difficulty paying for this year’s drive due to the low turnout. Project Life needed money earlier this semester after the National Red Cross was unable to match the committee’s funds as it had done in the past. The increase in price for typing, from $65 to $75 per person, had also created difficulties. Luckily, Bond said, the organization’s fundraising was successful. As usual, the letter writing campaign raised the most money, and the t-shirt sales have been “really successful.” Ben and Jerry’s also helped Project Life with its donation of $1 for each item purchased on one day. Bond said that although the day did not raise “a whole lot, every little bit counts.” Project Life has also earned approximately $1500 from its campus-wide fundraiser of exam baskets. “Very generous” donations from churches added to the organization’s funds. Bond’s relief about Project Life’s financial situation this year does not mean that the organization does not need money. She anticipated potential problems in the future. Project Life is

See BONE MARROW page 3.

LETTERS

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036