By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

It’s the people that make the place.

That has been Bobby Vagt’s credo since taking office as Davidson’s 16th president some seven months ago. So in making
a swift half dozen personnel changes — or eliminations — over the past two weeks, has he broken a promise?

Lt. Emory McLaurin thinks so.

“I remember all that ‘It’s a family thing’ and this, that, and the other,” said McLaurin, who was fired from
his position as detective for the campus police. “There are areas they could have cut back on before they did
what they did.

“I’m sure there are things they could have cut before personnel and the safety of the students.”

In particular, McLaurin points to the elevator recently built in the president’s house as an unnecessary and extravagant expenditure.

“Why do they need to put an elevator in President Vagt’s house?” McLaurin asked in a telephone interview from his
home in Mooresville on Thursday evening. “Yes, I’m PO’d because I lost my job, but why does he need that
elevator? He doesn’t look that much older than me.”

Ultimately, McLaurin believes the safety of students is being compromised because of these recent developments.

McLaurin has questions, but no answers

@ Lt. Emory McLaurin

“They don’t have anybody looking after investigations anymore,” he said. “One man can’t do it all, and that’s basically what
they want. It’s impossible.

“Maybe some cuts are necessary, but you’re talking about the safety of the students here.”

McLaurin, as will the others who have been directly affected by the budget cuts, will pick up the pieces and
move on. With the help of the school, McLaurin is putting together a resume and will send out completed applications
in coming weeks.

Even so, McLaurin said, “I sacrificed my family for that job. I loved my job at Davidson College. I enjoyed
getting up in the morning and going to work.

“It’s going to be hard to replace that. It’s going to have to be a damn good job.”

But McLaurin leaves Davidson waiting for an explanation that will likely never come.

“I was in total shock,” McLaurin said, referring to the meeting in Dean of Students Tom Shandley’s office two weeks
ago, at which he was told his job was being eliminated. “I’m still in shock. I don’t understand why.”

And why was the police department singled out to seemingly bear the brunt of the financial cutbacks?

Said McLaurin, “I guess you'll have to ask President Vagt that.”

By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

At the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, Ruth Ann Swart is the mother, and the 28 majors are her children.

Swart, the department assistant, makes lunch for the students and their faculty advisers every Friday. If a bleary-eyed student is
staring at a late night in the Center, she leaves a pillow and a blanket.

“She brings us all together,” said Samia Mohammed, a junior Center major. “We know her so well and she knows
us so well. She’s part of our family.”

But due to the College’s recent round of personnel cutbacks, Swart, who had been a full-time employee for five years,
will have to do that on a part-time basis from now on.

She had her hours reduced from 37-and-a-half a week for 10 months of the year to 20 hours for nine
months. With those hours went her benefits, including health insurance.

“For me, it’s been my family,” Swart said last week from her Mooresville home. “Part of the Center’s atmosphere is
to provide a home for the kids. I think our kids are the best of the best, and they need
a special place.

“It’s a terrible decision,” she said of President Bobby Vagt’s layoffs. “It’s wrong, just plain wrong.”

“Ruth Ann means a great deal to me, personally and professionally,” said Bob Manning, the Director of the Center. “She
is a wonderful and loving person.”

Swart held Center together

@ Ruth Ann Swart

Who’s going to do the work Swart once did?

“Me,” Manning said bluntly.

Is it going to affect the productivity of the Center?

“Yep.”

Said Swart: “I feel like it’s a kick in the face of Dr. Manning — to feel like his department
is not important.”

But for Swart, this situation goes far beyond one particular department. As a child growing up in North Carolina, Davidson
was “the hallowed place to go to school — and it was trustworthy.”

And now?

“My faith in Davidson has just dropped to the ground,” she replied. “I didn’t think they would treat me like
this.”

And Swart points to Vagt the businessman as the prime culprit.

“I think he’s used to a corporate life,” she said. “In the corporate world, there is no family. It’s the
bottom line that matters.

“I don’t think he even considered the people involved. I’ve never talked to him. He doesn’t know that I exist.
It hurts so much. It’s just like now I’m not important. So I take that very personally.”

Swart pointed out an interesting parallel between Vagt’s family and the Center: Both are run by a Robert and a
Ruth Ann — Bob and Ruth Ann in the Center, Bobby and Ruth Ann at the president's house.

“I thought he would have realized that,” Swart said. “But I guess he was just too busy doing what he
does to form personal relationships.”

Wednesday, Feb. 18

Thursday, Feb. 19

Saturday, Feb. 21

Sunday, Feb. 22

Monday, Feb. 23

SOLIDARITY WEEK 1998

Get Out of the Groove!

Film: Chasing Amy
9:30 p.m., 900 Room (Discussion to Follow)

@ Also Showing Friday, Feb. 20 at 9:30 p.m., 900 Room @

Sheri Reynolds ‘89
8:15 p.m., 900 Room (Book Reading)

Talent Show
9:00 p.m., 900 Room

Community Dinner
12:30 p.m., Ada Jenkins Center (Barbecue!)

National Theatre of the Deaf
8:15 p.m., Love Auditorium

Anyone needing special assistance for disabilities, please call 892-2140
