Crabbie Says: I'm a senior. So without beating around the bush, let me get this off my chest: I’m cooler
than just about 75% of you. Now, I know a couple of you freshmen just turned on that shiny, brand
new computer in the delusional hope that you could prove me wrong in the next Davidsonian, but before you move
another finger, just wait a minute. The point of my article is not to prove that I, like the rest
of the seniors, am cooler (not to mention many moons more intelligent) than you. My point is that in my
grand and ultimate knowledge, you should not only read my column but absorb, digest, and even live it. If you
succeed, you, too, may even reach, if not surpass, the coolness that is Crabbie. Now please read carefully.

Davidson has always struggled in the area of gender relations. Years and years have been devoted to ways in which
we can improve upon male-female interaction on campus. The fact remains these problems have never been fixed. But the question
remains, why even try? These problems are what make Davidson the school that it is. Today, it is a part
of the school I have come to know and cherish. I love my Davidson. So my message for the freshmen:
DON’T SCREW WITH MY SCHOOL.

Unfortunately, it may be too late. Looking around the Commons lately has been a sight for sore eyes (yes, I
still eat at the Commons, and yes, I’m still cooler than you). I see men and women alike sitting together.
I even see juniors and sophomores sitting intermixed, enjoying a pleasant co-ed meal. Not so bad until I stumble upon
the forbidden—like Eve and an apple tree—freshmen and freshwomen not only sitting at the same table but even talking to
each other. Whoa! There’s a flag down on the play. Let’s go to the refs to see what it’s about;
yes, Boomer, it’s just what we thought, march the freshmen back 15 yards for SCREWING WITH MY SCHOOL.

[Side note: as long as we are talking about what may be the downfall of our school, it’s nice to
see the Union has truly outdone itself. As if the Union Cafe didn’t suck before, it has now passed our
marvelous technological superhighway that is the home of Davidson track and field as the eighth wonder of a top twenty-five
liberal arts school.]

I know you freshmen still have much to learn about the intricacies of college life. One of the unwritten rules
(not included in the Red Book) is that for the first semester of college, no person shall have any normal
forms of communication with the opposite sex. We must walk around in large contingents of hall mates of no less
than four and preferably about twenty. We may talk about the opposite sex, but never directly to them (unless, of
course, intoxicated). It’s the way things were when I got here; it’s the way things always have to be.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1998

Freshman class brings new gender relations with it

Now, if I was not so proud and cool, I might admit that I’m fairly impressed with the new breed
of Davidson freshmen. I might even go so far as to say that the new freshmen may be leading Davidson
into a new future of proper gender relations. This not being the case, however, the freshmen have got to change.

On the theme of change, I will now end my column with the issuing of my first-ever Golden S.A.G.T.A.S.S. award.
This not-so-coveted distinction goes to the Davidson student who has demonstrated in the past week that he or she has
completely wasted his or her parents' money on a Davidson College education. For Jeff Burhans’ column entitled “A Filthy Legacy,”
we present him with the “should(a) gone to a state school” award, which takes the form of $80,000 over the
next four years. Jeff was the hands-down winner after...Using the death of one of the truly great and influential Supreme
Court justices of our time to articulate his inferiority complex, that is, being a white man. Future winners to be
named, but until next time, listen to what Crabbie says...

Union Cafe lowers its standards, fires students

From the moment Davidson students arrive on campus during freshman orientation, they are led to believe that Davidson is somehow
a little different from other colleges and the world outside. A world unto itself, an oasis, Davidson seems to bleary-eyed
freshmen who likely are not used to a place where most are friendly, everyone leaves their doors unlocked, and found
dollars are tacked on bulletin boards so that the proper owner can retrieve them. This idyllic setting is made possible,
we are told, because of the strict code of honor and responsibility which Davidsonians adhere to. The idea that the
College community holds its members to a “higher standard” forms the foundation of the Davidson model: a college where the
ideals of honesty, compassion, respect, courtesy, and above all honor are held paramount. These noble ideals infect every nook and
cranny of this fine institution.

Sadly, this same higher standard has not been adhered to by all in the Davidson community. Over the summer, Auxiliary
Services decided to reconfigure the Union Cafe. Part of the now infamous plan included firing all of the student workers
in favor of full-time employees. Each student employee was ignominiously called with the news just before the start of the
school year. One student, a three-year employee, who had risen through the Cafe hierarchy during his tenure, was unceremoniously called
at home the day before the start of school and told he no longer held his job. Many of the
laid-off student workers had depended on their earnings from the Cafe to support themselves. One in particular, Matt Charlton, has
had to work two jobs to account for lost income.

Given the fact that the Cafe was fully operational and benefited from a full complement of workers on the first
day of school, Auxiliary Services must surely have made the student firing decisions long before the start of classes. So
why did Auxiliary Services hang its faithful student employees out to dry by informing them of their layoff on the
verge of the new semester long after the decision had been made? Because Auxiliary Services has no honor. Even more,
these mass firings represent a lack of civility, compassion, and respect for students. Auxiliary Services waited until after all of
the good work-study jobs had been filled to notify their student workers of their job status, thereby making the loss
of employment as painful as possible.

Out in the real world, layoffs such as these would hardly draw a second look, for it is a given
that employers can be bastards sometimes. But here at Davidson, where so much is made about living up to a
higher standard, one expects a little more. Davidson has withstood the test of time, growing stronger each successive year because
of the faith held by students, faculty, and staff alike so that Davidson is a unique and special place of
learning, a place where one gives a little more and receives a little more as a result. This accords each
community member a sense of security, built on the once bedrock idea that members of the community comport themselves nobly,
with the utmost respect and courtesy for others. The administration, represented by Auxiliary Services, has brought shame upon themselves and
all of Davidson for failing on these counts. The rest of the community expects more. As members of the Davidson
community, we deserve an administration which embodies the idea of the Davidson higher standard, rather than one which just pays
lip service to it.
