I would like to be among the first to express my undying gratitude to Student Opinionator Britton Taylor for ending his extended and much-maligned “hiatus” and deigning to bestow upon us, the idiot citizens of the Davidson community, yet another articulate and well-thought-out Op-Ed piece. Without obtaining Britton’s enlightened opinions concerning everything from journalistic prioritization to “literary merit” to the film “Titanic” to the Career Services Office, I wouldn't know what to think about anything. I am referring, of course, to his half-page-long rant on page six of last week’s Davidsonian. And I am being, of course, extremely sarcastic.

Britton begins his diatribe by complaining about the fact that The Davidsonian spent too much time covering the alleged “donnybrook” (nice vocabulary, by the way) at the Sig Ep house and no time covering his College Bowl competition. Now, I went to some Bowl matches, I have some friends that competed, and I think that it was a quality event. But I have to tell you, most conversations and debates in my dorm did not revolve around who knew which piece of arcane trivia. To say that The Davidsonian owes Britton Taylor an apology for reporting on a topic that people were interested in is absurd, not to mention a bit pompous. And after Britton finished writing his vindictive words, it turns out the paper published a nice piece on the College Bowl (as they should have) and even gave him a quote on the front page. Looks to me like they did a decent job after all.

He ends with this stellar piece of logic: “For all I know, (the alleged Sig Ep incident) could have been something The Davidsonian made up entirely.” Okay, let’s ride this train of thought to its logical conclusion, shall we? Apparently what he’s saying is that anything in the paper that he doesn’t personally witness can never be trusted and is quite possibly a lie. So “for all I know,” the American Revolution, the Second World War, and the Kennedy Assassination are all BS too, because I didn’t see any of those things, either.

Britton also takes issue with the Momix narrative I wrote, saying that I possess “a 13-year-old’s mentality.” While that may or may not be true, that was also the point — and hopefully the reason that it was funny, or at least amusing (except for Mr. Taylor, I’ve only heard good reviews). It’s also impressive that Britton is able to make such a blanket statement about someone while knowing little or nothing about them. He also asserts that a quote I put in the article had “no literary merit.” I guess he’s qualified to make such a statement due to the fact that he’s a well-respected and tenured professor of literature and journalism here at Davidson College. Oh wait, he’s not. My bad.

He then proceeds to recount the day when he wiped his ass with a copy of The Davidsonian. Nice. Whether you like the paper or not, there’s no denying that a lot of people spend a lot of time and effort putting it out (for FREE!). So to show his appreciation, Britton decides to use the product of their unpaid hard work as toilet paper and then publicly boasts about it. Real mature. So refresh my memory, I seem to have forgotten: Who was it that has the mentality of a 13-year-old?

And as if all that wasn’t insulting enough, Britton then has the brazen audacity to command that The Davidsonian apologize to him, again for the lack of College Bowl coverage, or he won’t “let them off the hook.” Oh, and then he calls himself “a nice guy.” Well, that may be true, but you couldn’t prove it by reading his article.

I really wish I could stop at this point, but unfortunately I’m just getting started. Britton then begins a quest to prove how pathetic and shallow the members of the female species are due to the fact that some of them cried during “Titanic.” He gives testament to his “manliness” by bragging that he gave high fives and didn’t care when the ship sank or when all the people died, unlike the feminine “emotional wrecks” with whom he had been forced to view the movie. I wonder what his reaction was when the Jews got carted off to the concentration camps in “Schindler’s List.”

He then goes on to further insult his companions by saying that their reasons for crying during the movie were, as tested by his superior abilities of judgment, inadequate. He implies that it was only he who understood the true meaning of the film while his idiot girlfriends missed it entirely. I find it hard to be sympathetic to Britton on this point. Britton had already established that they were intellectually vacant idiots compared to him because they cried when there was obviously no good reason. Knowing this, how could he possibly expect their feeble minds to comprehend the film on the same emotional level that he could, being the analytical genius that he is? Sarcasm again, by the way. Maybe I'll stick with it.

So at this point in our story, Britton is already pretty pissed off. But wait, even more horrible indignities await him around the corner, care of the ever-so-stupid human race. He goes in for a job interview, and due to the fact that he is The One-and-Only Britton Taylor, he is extraordinarily overqualified for any and all positions they are offering. But for some odd reason, surely not due to anything Britton did, something goes awry during the interview, and our hero doesn’t get the job. Now, I'll cede the point that if Britton’s version of events is accurate (I wasn’t there, so I'll have to assume it’s a lie), the interviewer was very harsh on him. But Britton doesn’t stop at just blaming the interviewer. Of course not — it seems there were others conspiring against him as well, such as the Career Services Office (who didn’t prepare him well enough) and Almighty God (who won't help him get a job). As I think about it, that might be a good tactic to take up in my life as well. Every time I screw something up, I'll just blame everyone else but me. Wow, will my self-esteem be high then! Probably high enough to allow me to trash other people’s hard work and insult the intelligence of my friends. Or not.

If you’ve read this far without having the urge to race to the hardware store for torches and pitchforks, it’s possible you’re wondering what exact point I’m trying to make with all this. Britton gave a “moral” at the end of his piece, so at the risk of sounding pretentious (although it didn’t seem to bother Britton), I'll try to give one in mine. Here goes: Sometimes the world is not as clear-cut and black-and-white as you think it is. Sometimes people will disagree with you and be right. And sometimes, when people unwittingly annoy you, you should just let it go. All that being said, however, there is one thing Britton wrote that I do agree with. He stated that he was “being disgustingly disagreeable.” No argument there.become increasingly disgruntled with life at Davidson. I’m bored, overworked, and frustrated with the supposedly “elite” population of students in attendance at this college. Sound familiar? During my senior year, I visited Davidson and fell madly in love with the school. My choice example for the week: the newspaper. Since arriving at Davidson last fall, I’ve heard only criticism and slams to The Davidsonian. Even the most carefully-crafted, objective articles are labeled as “one-sided” by those who disagree. Articles objected to by the student population go unnoticed, rather than prompting vocalized student reaction. When I started writing opinions last semester, I was worried my articles would insult someone and cause a scathing reaction in the next issue. Hasn’t happened yet. My favorite example with The Davidsonian, case in point, is the individuals who whine and complain in every issue about the limited or inaccurate coverage given to events, speakers, committees, teams. I can understand being angered by inaccurate coverage — every article should at least be accurate. But if you want to learn a little more about the “limited” coverage of the news or sports section, talk to one of the editors. Try showing up for a news staff meeting Sunday night. The 25 writers from the beginning of the year have quickly depleted to ten, and many of them are still finding their way in newswriting. But at least they’re still around to write, to do something. At least they’re not sitting on their lazy butts for two-hour meals at the Commons complaining, once again, about the crappy issue of The Davidsonian.

In last week’s issue, Britton Taylor devotes one and a half columns to espousing his dissatisfaction with Davidsonian coverage. (Note: espousing here is used as a euphemism for formal bitching.) What he wouldn’t know is that an article on the College Bowl was assigned, but not turned in, or at least not on time. A review, by the way, is a criticism of an event by the author, reflecting his/her own opinion. If you didn’t like the Momix article, complain to the author, not the paper, who probably didn’t have anyone else to write it. But hey, at least Britton is writing. At least he’s giving us something to print. (And, hopefully, all of you sitting there right now complaining about this article will write a letter to the editor, again helping us fill space.) If The Davidsonian were to respond to all of the criticism we receive — if we were to hire only experienced writers, to fire those who failed to turn assignments in on time, to print only “pro-Davidson” articles — THERE WOULD BE NO NEWSPAPER ON THIS CAMPUS.

Davidson houses the potential to be a truly great college, fueled by an amazing student body. Unfortunately, at the end of the day, potential means nothing. It’s another political theory that looks great on paper but fails to materialize in reality. The moral of my story: If you’re not gonna be part of the solution, quit whining about the problem.

Inner resources and tripping the light fantastic

There is more to dancing than the Court. Last week when I read The Davidsonian, I was disheartened to learn the student Max Nelson felt that the Court was the only place to dance. Now, I take no issue with his defense of the Court parties. I fully acknowledge they are much more than a place to get drunk and find people with whom to “hook up.” But his assertion that these parties were the only place on campus where he could dance with his friends was just dead wrong. In this semester alone, the BME and other groups have sponsored parties on Saturday nights where a motley mix of folks were tripping the light fantastic till the wee hours. While I was not here last semester, I also know that every other Thursday night last fall the Union sponsored Disco Night in the 900 Room. Max, defend the Court all you like. It is a valuable social arena for much of the campus. But if you are going to argue that the Court is all that is offered to you, I wish you would open your eyes before you open your mouth.

Folks, Max is not alone in his gripes without basis here at Davidson. I am guilty of this kind of laziness, too. I think we all are. We think we know so much about this school and life and have sufficient reasons to whine left and right before we’ve investigated our resources. I am reminded of a Berryman poem from his “Dream Songs,” in which he writes, “Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so. After all, the sky flashes, the great sea yearns, we ourselves flash and yearn, and moreover my mother told me as a boy (repeating) ‘Ever to confess you're bored means you have no inner resources.’ I conclude now I have no inner resources, because I am heavy bored.”

I am asking Max and myself and the rest of this campus to reaffirm the inner resources we have within this place. We need not be “heavy bored” here. And if what you want is not here, ask around, and it is likely you will find a way to bring what you wish, or discover it was already here. This is one of the joys of a small school: While what you like may not be an already-established reality, this place is pregnant with possibility. We need to step out of our rooms and our minds sometimes, our comfy circles of friends, to make this place fulfilling in every way, so we don’t have to read any more editorials about all this school doesn’t have to offer.