THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Urban Legend” is a guilty pleasure

By Pauline STEWART
Staff Writer

I saw this movie the first time when it was called “Scream.” Things that make you jump, good-looking college students
getting slashed, and trendy in-jokes that make you guffaw all make this retread material. In fact, it is one of
the most unoriginal movies I have ever seen. The previews led me to expect crap, but guess what? It’s great.

There have been movies about killing people according to the seven deadly sins (“Seven”), the ten commandments (“Commandments”), and even
after serial killers themselves (“Copycat”). The killer in this movie kills according to urban legends—you know, like the old babysitter-gets-a-call-from-the-killer-upstairs
story, or eating-pop-rocks-with-cola-made-Mikey-blow-up kind of stuff. This gives the writers lots of great material to work from. Urban folklore is
great, and a movie that explores a number of those stories sounds promising.

The plot is almost too simple (until the ending) to talk about. Names of characters are trivial, really. They function
as acne-free teenage pawns to take the story from one urban legend killing to the next, and I must say
there are some very elaborate gross-out scenes in this movie. I will only reveal one such murder scene to give
the idea of how the movie works (don’t read the next paragraph if you don’t want the first scene ruined
for you).

A girl driving back to college runs out of gas and stops to get some. It’s raining pretty hard, but
the gas station clerk gets her gas, and she pays with a credit card. The clerk comes back outside and
needs her to come inside because her credit card declines. She goes inside, and the man locks the door behind
them. Thinking the man wants to kill her, she hits him and runs away. She takes off with her new
tank of gas, and we see the gas station attendant screaming, “There’s someone in the back of your car!” She
then of course is hacked with an axe. This legend can be read in a slightly different form in “Highbeams,”
a great short story from a collection called Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark by Alvin Schwartz.

It is rare for a movie to scare me these days, but in two great suspense scenes, this movie had
me frightened and squeezing my friend’s shoulder hard. And in the second murder scene, there is a scare so unexpected,
it will make you jolt from your seat, heart pounding away. It’s a Kevin Williamson ‘Scream’ genre movie to the
core, but there is a lot of great material to draw from to make the movie a lot of fun.
It’s a step below “Scream” but it’s a hell of a lot better than “I Know What You Did Last
Summer.”

Will everyone like “Urban Legend”? No way. I think only those between the ages of 17 and 25 can appreciate
the college jokes and pop culture references. There are a few things that even college students must do, however, to
achieve maximum enjoyment from the movie:

1. Go in expecting a generic movie. There’s nothing new here. Let your brain go for a while.
2. Take friends. The more the better. There is nothing like yelling at the characters on a movie screen with
a bunch of loud and obnoxious college students. Better yet, get popcorn and throw it at the screen. No friends
+ No popcorn = No fun.
3. Laugh at the blood. This is the “There’s Something About Mary” of horror movies. They are not afraid to
show you anything—most notably a frat boy being made to funnel Liquid Drano and a man’s ankle being slashed. Don’t
turn away. Laugh because you are disgusted.
4. Know pop culture. Know that the theme song to Dawson's Creek is Paula Cole’s “I Don’t Want to Wait.”
Know that the co-star is the Noxzema girl. You will laugh until your stomach hurts.
5. Expect an outrageous ending. Horror movies always have stupid endings, but give this one a chance. It’s actually pretty
funny, in a “yeah right” sort of way.

Yes, “Urban Legend” is bad in every way. It’s a copycat movie of a copycat movie. But I challenge you
to find a way to have more fun in a movie theater with your friends.

Grade: A-

WRITE. BECAUSE YOU CAN.

LIVING __ TUESDAY,

You think to yourself, “What will I do this weekend?” Fear not!Charlotte on Saturday! Yeah!!! Lucky onomatopoeia: shaBAM

Pisces (February 19-March 20)
Your mom emails you a “Happy Friendship Week” forward. You forward it on to all of your Davidson buddies. The
next day you find your teddy bear beheaded and all of your socks missing. Lucky candy for any people: spin
pop.

Aries (March 21-April 19)
In a fit of rage, you decide to buck the system and keep your reserve reading for two hours and
one minute. Don’t let the man keep you down! Lucky era in American literature: Transcendentalism. Rock on, Thoreau.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)
Your single dad is feeling down, so you try to set him up with your young, lovely new nanny. Okay,
so it’s an episode of Two of a Kind. Those Olsen twins are baaack on TGIF, friends. Lucky Coen film:
Barton Fink.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)
You know that recurring nightmare, the one where you're the love child of Bea Arthur and Gerard Depardieu? Well, this
week you find out that it’s true. Sorry. Lucky game show: Finders Keepers.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)
You're in Chambers at 1:01 am when all the lights go out. You trip over a podium, fracture two ribs,
and get a nasty rug burn. Nobody finds you until 6 am, when the light comes back. Better learn to
follow directions. Lucky musical: Paint Your Wagon.

Leo (July 23-August 22)
You decide to go out and get an actual life. The situation is desperate. You’re reading the horoscope in the
Davidsonian, after all. Make something of yourself! Lucky (and scariest!) confection: pop rocks.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)
Say adios to Davidson on Wednesday. You bring a beverage, sans lid, into the library, and the librarians turn into
bloodhounds. Still, it’s the signs? You could ruin the carpet! Lucky Outpost meal: Chicken Caesar bagel and a bag of
Rold Golds.

On the Scene at Davidson College

Coffeehouse. What kind of lame coffeehouse closes at 11:15 a.m.? 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Art Studio Faculty Exhibit. All week long. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the Visual Arts Center.

Dr. Bruce Lawrence. Speaker. 7:30-9:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

Jumpin’ Java. BE the party. 8:00 p.m. - a.m. at the Outpost.

Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Drink, because you can. 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Jesuit Volunteer Corps. Sort of like AmeriCorps. 10:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Life Sciences Building dedication. No more jackhammering! 5:00 - 9:00 p.m. at the construction site.

Dr. Jeannette Lander. Speaker. 5:00 - 6:30 p.m. at the Carolina Inn.

Coffeehouse. Sans Italian sodas and scones and that sort of thing. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Trustees Plenary Session. Sounds important. 12:00 - 5:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Children’s Schoolhouse. Crayons and whatnot. 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. on the Village Green, next to the town library.

Doris Betts. Author. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Wear your coffee-drinkin’ clothes, shoes in which you can get wet, and a big smile. 8:00 p.m. -
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Amnesty International. All students welcome! 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Eumeanean Society. 8:30 - 9:30 p.m. at Eumeanean Hall, upstairs.

Philanthropic Society. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in Phi Hall, upstairs.

Meditation. Ommmmmm. 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Rev. Emory Searcy. Speaker. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

DC Wind Ensemble Concert. Clarinets of fury! 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. at Hodson Hall.

“Barton Fink.” John Goodman at his rotund best. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

FLAG Meeting. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Genre Night. Check it out. Contact Amanda Lanier for more info. 10:00 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Turner House Semi-Formal. 7:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. on Vail Commons Patio, not the Outpost.

John Cloer, cello. There'll probably be some ivory-tickling going on too, if that’s any incentive. 8:00-9:30 p.m. at Hodson Hall.

“Barton Fink.” See it again, this time on Friday. 9:30 - 11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Band. Maybe — the schedule says “Band-Sponsor--OLAS,” judge for yourself. 6:00 - 11:00 p.m. at the 900 Room.

Saturday Night Live. Live entertainment on Saturday night. 10:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

Doris Betts. She has more to say. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. For a night of caffeine and unbridled angst, it's 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

Spanish Dept. speaker. Spanish speaker speaks. (Say THAT fast 100 times). 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

CROP Walk meeting. Walk for the crops, because they can't do it themselves. 7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the Home
Room.
