TL U aS YF @2 or TF 8S E Dp A S Y

Wildcats prepare for opener against top-ranked Duke
By Tripp CHERRY
Staff Writer

One week from today the Davidson Wildcats will open their season against the country’s number one ranked team in the Charlotte Coliseum in a game that will be nationally televised on espn2. After facing the Duke Blue Devils in front of the famous Cameron Crazies for the past two years, the Wildcats will appreciate the less intimidating and more spacious Charlotte Coliseum. Although there will almost definitely be a number of Duke fans at the game, the Davidson students are expected to do all the cheering and heckling this year.

“Playing in Charlotte should be an advantage for us because they won’t have their student section,” said assistant coach Jason Zimmerman. “But we’re still going to be facing the same team that we would be facing up there.”

After barely missing the Final Four last year, Duke returns all their key players with the exception of intense floor leader Steve Wojciechowski. Facing a top-seeded Duke team should be nothing new for this year’s group of Wildcats. All of the probable starters have faced Duke for the past two seasons, and they hope to use that experience to their advantage this year.

“We’ve experienced playing against them,” said Zimmerman. “Our veterans know what it’s like to play in this type of game.”

Last year with 13:11 to go in the game, a Stephen Marshall tip-in cut the Duke lead to eight points. From there the Blue Devils went on a 43-16 run to end the game. The final score was 100-65. Two years ago the Wildcats trailed the Blue Devils by just seven points at halftime before falling 85-58. Obviously, the focus this year is going to be hanging with the deep and athletic bunch from Durham for forty minutes.

“We have to execute for a full forty-minute game,” said Zimmerman.

A large part of the letdown the past two years against Duke has been turnovers late in the game when the Blue Devils utilized their full-court pressure defense. Last year, the Wildcats committed 32 turnovers that led to 48 Duke points. After spending much of the past six weeks on crutches, point guard Ali Ton looked impressive on Thursday night in his first action since his broken foot, dishing out 10 assists with only two turnovers. For the Wildcats to be close at the end of the game, Ton and the rest of the Wildcats will have to take care of the ball.

The Wildcats will also have to worry about Elton Brand in the paint. In two exhibition games, which the Blue Devils won by an average of 47.5 points, Brand averaged 25.5 points and 11.5 rebounds. One of the only bright spots for Davidson last year was the interior play of Stephen Marshall, who scored 20 points and grabbed 14 rebounds. The Wildcats have a lot of depth in the post to throw at Brand. In addition to Marshall, the Wildcats can’t lose track of sharpshooter Trajan Langdon on the perimeter. Last year Langdon averaged 14.7 points per game for the Blue Devils. Duke is a very deep and athletic team, but...

If You Believe...
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, February 25th, 1964, a kid named Cassius Clay stunned the boxing world with a seventh-round TKO of then-heavyweight champion Sonny Liston... On Saturday, November 5th, 1994, 45-year-old George Foreman did the same when he leveled Michael Moorer in round number ten... On Saturday, October 25th, 1986, down by two runs with two outs and two strikes in the bottom of the 10th inning of Game 6 of the World Series (which the Boston Red Sox led 3 games to 2), the New York Mets implausibly rallied to win and send the series to a decisive Game 7 in which they would be crowned World Series champions... On Monday, April 4th, 1983, in the championship game of the NCAA Basketball Tournament, North Carolina State’s Lorenzo Charles caught and slammed in a would-be last-second airball by teammate Derek Whittenburg to give Jimmy Valvano’s Wolfpack a miracle 54-52 win over the University of Houston... On Friday, November 30th, 1984, Boston College quarterback Doug Flutie connected with his wide receiver and roommate Gerard Phelan on a last-second, desperation, 64-yard, “Hail-Mary” touchdown pass to shock the defending national champion Miami Hurricanes 47-45. On Friday, February 22nd, 1980, in Lake Placid, New York, the USA Olympic Hockey Team stunned the world by defeating the Soviet Union 4-3 on a Mike Eruzione shot that escaped Soviet goalkeeper Vladimir Myshkin... On Tuesday, September 8th, 1998, St. Louis Cardinal slugger Mark McGwire belted home run number sixty-two... Experts swore it would never happen... Davidson vs. Duke. Tuesday, November 17th, 1998. 8:00 P.M. Charlotte Coliseum. And David slung a stone and felled the mighty Goliath...Davidson will be the toughest competition the Blue Devils have seen this year after exhibitions against Team Fokus and the Australia All-Stars and a home opener against seniors Chadd Fairfield. The Holmes and Ben Ebong, as well as junior Landry Kosmalski, are experienced Davidson post players. Coach Bob McKillop's chances of an off-night or a letdown on the part of the Blue Devils are much greater in November than they are in March. At 7’2, freshman Martin Ides gives Davidson another option down low. The Blue Devils are very talented everywhere on the court, though, and if they are able to stay focused and play error-free basketball for the entire night, anything is possible.

The Santore Corner
[Frank Santore, a 1981 graduate of Davidson, is entering his fourth year as play-by-play broadcaster for the Davidson Wildcats men’s basketball team. Professionally, Santore is an attorney-at-law in his hometown of Greenville, Tennessee, and also president of Greenville-based Gino Communications. Santore’s broadcasting career is purely a passionate hobby, “a labor of love.” The radio network over which Santore’s legendary voice reverberates continually expands with each new Wildcat basketball season. To hear him on the Davidson College campus, tune into 105.3 FM (WAGI out of Gaffney, S.C.) each game day. Next week’s Davidsonian Sports Section will feature an intimate question and answer with Mr. Santore, “the voice of the ‘Cats,” who turned 39 just this past Monday. Happy Birthday, Frank. Thanks for all you do. Keep “painting it red and black” for us all the way through March.]

On the November 17th Davidson-Duke match-up in the Charlotte Coliseum, Santore says:
“I hope we continue this series. The last two years we’ve gotten to the eight-minute mark in the second half against Duke in great shape. Then something always seems to happen to us, and we fall apart. I’m hoping that our guys this year, with all their experience, will come up large. I believe that if we are within striking distance with eight minutes left, and I think we will be, that we can finish, that we have a legitimate shot at whipping Duke.”

A glance at the Pundits’ take on Davidson hoops:
The Sporting News: “The Wildcats appear considerably stronger than they were a year ago, especially if new starter Davor Halbauer fulfills his potential as a slasher and scorer. Davidson should again win 20, run away with the Northern Division title, and outrun Charleston for the league championship.”

Street & Smith’s: “McKillop returns after pushing his ‘Cats to an SC tournament championship, a 20-10 overall mark, and an NCAA tournament appearance. Davidson has a chance to do it all again.”

Lindy’s: “Four starters return along with four other veterans, giving the Wildcats another formidable team.”

Preview Sports: “Not since Lefty Driesell and Terry Holland coached at Davidson in the late ‘60s and early ‘70s have the Wildcats enjoyed the kind of success that coach Bob McKillop’s clubs have experienced over the past three seasons. There is no reason to doubt that McKillop will guide Davidson to a fourth straight division championship this season and contend for a second consecutive conference crown and NCAA Tournament berth.”

Basketball News: “It will only get easier for Davidson after it faces Duke in its nationally televised opener.”

Dick Vitale’s: “If there’s been a dominant team in the Southern Conference in the ‘90s, it’s been the Wildcats... Yet, until last March, few noticed. Last year’s trip to the Tournament should have changed all of that. And, if it didn’t, perhaps another trip—this time accompanied with a victory—will.”

Athlon Sports: “All-conference guard Mark Donnelly will be tough to replace for Davidson, but the return of four other starters should ease some of the pain caused by his departure.”

Inside Sports:
* Interview with Coach Steve Shurina
* Swim team loses close meet
* Football team ties record for season wins

Women’s Soccer
Wildcats 2
Charlotte Royals 1

Men’s Basketball
Wildcats 86
VASDA 78

Men’s Basketball
Host #1-ranked Duke at the Charlotte Coliseum on Tuesday night

Men’s Soccer
Wildcats 86
Ft. Bragg 73

Football
Travel to Bridgewater for a shot at a school record eighth victory.

Volleyball
Centre College 6
Wildcats 140

Women’s Swimming
Wildcats 121
Richmond 94

Men’s Swimming
Wildcats 140
Richmond 122