_THE DAVIDSONIAN Disclaimer: Nothing in this article is true. We implore that you not take anything that you read seriously.
In fact, do not take yourself so seriously. If you come to the conclusion that some statement may be referring
to you, you are wrong. Even if your name appears in the text, it is not referring to you. With
that aside, we may begin our article.

This week’s topic: The Dating Scene at Davidson. Normally we insert a brilliant, colorful, and profound adjective that sums up
our thoughts on the subject; however, we failed to obtain any information on the dating scene. This is due to
the fact that there isn’t one. After days without sleep, our extensive research — talking with the people that we
live with — has revealed the existence of a “hook-up” scene at Davidson. This was unknown to your authors, because
we are lame introverts that never attend any social functions, thus eliminating our chances of even talking to girls, let
alone going home with one. This was kept tightly under wraps until Carrie Arthur blabbed it to the whole school
two weeks ago.

If that wasn’t enough, Miss Arthur, or if you feel that Miss is derogatory, Carrie voiced a complaint that we
have heard non-stop for three weeks now regarding the Mrs. Degree. STOP TELLING US ABOUT IT!! We know, as Carrie
pointed out in one of her many articles two weeks ago, that Davidson women are smart. We even had those
helpful Homecoming headbands to remind us. Initially, we were under the impression that the admissions standards only held true for
the male population and figured that any female could attend, regardless of her past academic background. This was remedied by
a visit to the admissions office where we learned that there actually are academic standards for women also. We now
know that most of the female student body could have gone to a public university, some even for free, to
find a husband, if that was their reason for going to college. With our recently obtained knowledge, we now know
that the women of Davidson College are so smart that they... (The next line is a joke, something intended to
humor others. If you don’t appreciate jokes or have a difficult time understanding them, we recommend that you refrain from
reading the next line.) ...decided to come here to find a smart husband, someone that has high earning potential, so
they never have to get a real job and can play golf and tennis all day. (To reiterate, that was
a joke. Please do not write an article commenting on our chauvinistic views, our lack of appreciation for a woman’s
role in society, yada, yada, yada. Your articles will do no good. We are bull-headed chauvinistic pigs lacking social skills.
Just ask Carrie, she seems to know us very well.)

Here are some of our suggestions on how to have an economical date at Davidson:

Good entertainment: Rent a movie from the game room. Only $1. If you are super cheap, give Marshall Tyler a
call to see if he isn’t watching his copy of Titanic. Be careful when you pick it up, it may
burn you.

Cheap eats: Collect McDonald’s retro game pieces. 49 cent Big Macs. Alternative: Use bonus bucks in the Commons. Say you
like the atmosphere.

Get her to drive: Insist that the top on your convertible Jag is stuck in the down position and that
the wind may mess up her hair.

Cheap nighttime entertainment: Bring her to a court party and drink other people’s beer. Tell her you love the DMB.

Get free clothes: Sleep at her place and insist that it is cold out and that you need her lacrosse
sweatshirt to walk back with.

Leave early in the morning: Not only will you avoid the humiliation at Bruegger’s the next day, you won’t have
to pay for her lunch.

We, the authors, Erich and Dave, those guys, or any other derogatory term that you can think of, have compiled
a list of bad pick-up lines and other taboo items that you should steer away from while “going for the
kill.”

First, don’t use your name or a line with your name in it when meeting someone. Examples: “I’m Bill Hurricane,
and I am gonna rock you like a hurricane,” or, “What’s up, I’m Will Blanks, but I don’t shoot.”

Second, don’t talk about high school achievements, especially sports. Girls care more about who this month’s centerfold is than what
you accomplished in high school.

Do not use these lines, because people we know (not us or our roommates) have used them unsuccessfully:
“We don’t have to get naked, we can just hook up.”
“I just need some action.”
“Have you seen how spacious the kitchens in the 5-mans are?”
“I’m tired of not knowing you.”
“I saw this on the Discovery Channel.”
“My roommate has a double bed.”
“You’re from Colorado, do you ski?”
“Do you know how much that dinner cost?”
“We have to, it’s National Hook-Up Night.”

Also, don’t use a line with squirrels, nuts, or holes, because Lauren Kenchington doesn’t like them.

Things not to do during the first hook up, if you want to have another one:
Don’t:
Mention the words love or future.
Break wind.
Mention any type of interest in a girlfriend back home.
Shocker.
Urinate or puke in the bed or room.
Steal her underwear.
Stop in other rooms on the way out.
Ask if your friends can watch.
Videotape the whole process. (If you do, keep it discreet.)
Commentate in the third person. (Hypothetical example: Dave likes that. Ooo. Dave really likes that. Oh God, does Dave like
that. Dave’s sleepy.)
Play the dead fish.
Say you are going to the bathroom and then leave.
The thousand-pound arm.
Bring up your desire to hook up with their roommate.
Ask them to leave via the window.
Pearl necklace, not cool.
Ask, “Who is your daddy?”
Turn on lights.
Say, “I am much more efficient.”
Say, “I can’t do this... I need another beer.”
Ask, “What’s your name again?”

Inside the numbers: Homecoming Week.
3,126. Number of people at the football game this weekend.
3,125. Number ofHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

People that think Brian Joyce is a jackass for referring to women as “specimens.” 0. Number of Brown twins talking
to Brian after the incident. 19. Number of people not convinced that Creatine has side effects after hearing Max at
the football game. 17. The age of the youngest girl to hook up with an alumni. 313. Number of people
who complained to Dave or threatened him in a physical or legal manner since we have been writing articles. 0.
Number of people who complained to Erich or threatened him in a physical or legal manner since we have been
writing articles. 3.1. Average number of golf carts per maintenance worker at Davidson.

Thoughts to improve the dating scene at Davidson, Max Nelson style: Take a chance, go out more often. College is
short, so are the guys. Date the vertically challenged. Hold doors. Pick her up at her room during date functions.
If he is drowning, help him in the conversation. Don’t let dimensions eclipse personality. Be spontaneous. Cabeza en la mañana.
Exercise daily. Don’t be a cocky freshman. Look how many students there are. Don’t take anyone else’s advice. Don’t let
down your defenses, they will try to hurt you. Lie. A lot. Cheat on them first. Strut your stuff during
the walk of shame. We have digressed.

On an actual serious note, we would like to apologize for any misunderstandings or ill will that we may have
caused due to statements made in this or any past article. Our articles are written in a whimsical and light
manner. The subject matter is obviously fictitious and/or exaggerated and not meant to be malicious or demeaning in any way.
We are sorry for any inconvenience that this may have caused.

Coming in two weeks: We have no idea, but we guarantee to think of something irrelevant, make up research about
it, and remain unpopular, unattractive, and out of style.

Let’s Talk Trash: A Guide to Recycling at Davidson

Let’s talk trash. So you’re late to your 8:30 class, and your only breakfast was that bottle of “Pet” OJ
you just bought at the Union and guzzled in 30 seconds. Thoughts are racing through your mind: “I can’t believe
I fell asleep studying last night...”, or “Crap! What was I thinking when I got dressed this morning?...” or maybe,
“Today I will actually say something in class...” Chances are you aren’t paying much attention to that empty plastic bottle
in your hand. You’ve made it up the stairs to class. Alas — two trash receptacles are beckoning you to
dispose of your waste. But which one should you put it in? You have exactly a tenth of a second
to make this decision. But indifference reigns — you chuck it in the trash receptacle — not the recycling bin.
This travesty of trash occurs daily — so I am here to set you straight.

One of the Student Government Association’s three main goals this year is to raise environmental awareness. One way you can
help the environment is to recycle. However, we realize that you have better things to think about than recycling, so
I’m gonna make it easy for you. Just think blue. It doesn’t matter what the container looks like — just
as long as the bag is blue it means it is a recycling bin. You can recycle just about anything
here, and it can all go in the same recycling bin. Just remember: no glass or wet items. Wet items
can be defined as unfinished Coke cans, pizza boxes, or wet paper towels, to name a few examples. Don’t worry
about that tiny drop of liquid left in your OJ bottle — the recyclables can be up to 20 percent
contaminated, but no more. Keep an eye out for a recycling bin next to every trash can, which is a
goal of Barbara Zaionz’s, Superintendent of Building Services.

So now you may be wondering what happened to recycling down the hill. The large recycling bins at the senior
apartments were taken away, according to Zaionz, because “it was so nasty and abused...it was attracting vermin...” Seniors can still
recycle, but they have to take the time to walk a distance to the bins. Plans to return the bins
nearer the apartments are hopefully in the future. Another goal of Zaionz and her staff is to begin recycling on
Patterson Court. However, it must be decided behind which houses the large bins would go. This could be an eyesore
to the houses and cause unpleasant odors in the spring. The future of recycling down the hill remains to be
seen. But in the meantime, all you kids up the hill have no excuse not to recycle. Just remember to
think blue — a moment of your time can make a big difference.

WE KNOW YOU’RE OUT THERE.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
