BY ASHLEY E. KING Staff Writer

Gloria Steinem spoke at a small press conference on Thursday, Oct. 22 in the Carnegie Guest House, a few hours
before she would deliver her speech to a sold-out Love Auditorium. Taking the microphone from the podium and sitting down
at a table with the reporters, Steinem and those present formed an intimate group who could discuss Steinem’s views in
a rather informal setting. The topics which surfaced at the conference ranged from the role of women in today’s society
to Playboy bunnies to the effects of aging.

When one of the reporters asked Steinem whether she thought they would see the complete equality of men and women
in their lifetimes, Steinem’s answer was brief: “You or I?” she asked. “No.” (The reporter who had asked the question
was young.)

“Where is the relevance of the women’s rights movement today?” one reporter asked Steinem. In response to this question, Steinem
said that she feels that women today basically face “two kinds of crises”: “the one that comes from success” and
“not enough success.” Feeling threatened by the success of women who have liberated themselves from the old social norm, a
minority of people with traditional views about women have constituted what Steinem called a “backlash” against the feminist movement. About
the second crisis, Steinem said the public espouses the major tenets of the feminist movement, and yet, it has not
yet acted upon these beliefs.

She then went on to explain that feminists have said since the relationship between President Clinton and Monica Lewinsky was
consensual, it was not sexual harassment. Steinem believes that Clinton’s opponents have “succeeded in...”

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1998

Steinem holds intimate session with reporters

...received the worst treatment of any woman in the public eye and pointed to the fact that Lewinsky was forced
to divulge intimate secrets about her life under the threat of imprisonment even though she had, in Steinem’s words, “committed
no crime.”

Touching a subject that affects women on campus, Steinem said that she feels that women today basically face “two kinds
of crises”: “the one that comes from success” and “not enough success.” Feeling threatened by the success of women who
have liberated themselves from the old social norm, a minority of people with traditional views about women have constituted what
Steinem called a “backlash” against the feminist movement.

Steinem said that educated women will face now and later in their lifetimes as they try to succeed in the
business world. “Most campuses are an experience of equality that women won't experience again,” Steinem said. In Steinem’s opinion, “we
have majority support, but we don’t have equal pay.” Because of these two crises that women face in society today,
Steinem believes that the women’s liberation movement still has a distance that is yet to go.

Along with her views on the progress of the women’s rights movement, Steinem also offered her views on the current
political scandal that has swept the White House.Commenting on Monica Lewinsky, Steinem said, “It’s been interesting to see that by
and large what the feminists have said is what the public is thinking 3 years down the road. They have
given the country at large the idea that sexual harassment is any sex between unequals.” Sympathizing with Lewinsky, Steinem said
she felt the young woman was “imprisoned by Ken Starr and by anyone who says anything about her looks.” She
thinks that Lewinsky is treated rather equitably because the women in a college or university are consumers. Once they enter
the real world, however, Steinem feels that this equality between men and women will become less prevalent. Steinem also worries
that young women in college will lose their self-esteem as they learn more about the absence of influential women in
history, which features mostly men. It has been shown, Steinem pointed out, that “in general, women’s self-esteem goes down with
every year of higher level education.”

The final problem that Steinem sees for young women who are attempting to excel in the business world is that
women are expected to fulfill what she called a “double role.” Not only are women expected to prosper as businesswomen,
they are also still expected to perform their traditional role in society of raising the children and taking care of
the home. Although Steinem admitted that women who choose to be homemakers are successful in their own way, she said,
“I would call it an even greater success for a man to stay home and raise a family,” because she
feels that he is going against the current of society.

After having discussed the hurdles which young women today must overcome, Steinem also offered some advice to young women who
are about to enter the adult world. She said that they should “spend time with people who make them feel
good about themselves, not bad.” Finally, her advice to young women was to “listen to their own inner voice and
refuse to let themselves be limited.”

Good, we already have something in common. It's all about making an impact. Sign-ups for Qualification Interviews open now through
Thursday, November 5, at Davidson Career Services. Qualification Interviews will be held Monday, November 9. If you're constantly thinking about
the future, here's a chance to actually do something about it. Come be a part of a leading global management
and technology consulting organization—Andersen Consulting. Together, we'll help world-class clients prepare for new challenges by delivering profound change. We'll help
unlock their potential for success by aligning strategy with people, processes, and technology—an approach that allows you to make an
impact from the ground up. You'll receive first-rate training and guidance, and exposure to a variety of projects and industries.
All of which builds a solid foundation for the years ahead. Our business is shaping the future. So why not
come talk to us about how, together, we can help shape yours. Visit our website at www.ac.com. Andersen Consulting. All
rights reserved. An equal opportunity employer.
