TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

THE DAVIDSONIAN | News

NATIONAL PBSPECIAL COVERAGE®

Each year, 12 million people suffer from clinical depression — an ailment potent enough to literally destroy lives. But the good news is that this affliction is a treatable illness, if proper actions are taken in a timely manner.

Just in time for the 1998 National Depression Awareness Week, The Davidsonian and the Student Counseling Center have teamed up to provide you with this coverage of depression, urging you to take a moment to make sure you — and those around you — are depression free.

What to do when you think a friend may be depressed

If a friend shows several of these symptoms of depression, you can listen and encourage him or her to seek treatment. If they do not seek help quickly, please talk to an adult you trust or go to the student counseling center yourself and ask what you can do to get them help. This is especially important if your friend mentions death or suicide. Student Counseling x2451; beeper 356-2118.

Expressing feelings of sadness or “emptiness”
Hopelessness, pessimism, or guilt
Helplessness or worthlessness
Seeming to be unable to make decisions
Unable to concentrate or remember
Uninterested in previously enjoyable activities
Having more problems with school and friends
Loss of energy and drive — “slowed down”
Trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, or getting up
Appetite problems — gain or loss of weight
Headaches, backaches, or other aches

Behavior changes such as being more restless or irritable
Wanting to be alone much of the time
Quitting classes or dropping hobbies and other activities
Drinking more or taking drugs
Talking about suicide

Getting a depressed friend help

1. Be persistent. Many people do not follow advice the first time but will after it is suggested a few times.
2. Follow up with the person — both to find out if they got the help they needed and to find out if it was helpful.
3. Be as specific as you can in your suggestions — for example by suggesting a specific person to talk to and even by helping them get there.
4. Don’t take it personally if they don’t do what you suggest right away — show interest in the outcome, not just if they did exactly as you suggested.
5. Try to reduce the feeling of being weak or inadequate because they are down by letting them know it is not their fault.
6. Be optimistic and hopeful about their getting help — because their own optimism is diminished.

Are you depressed?

Clinical depression is a very treatable illness that affects 12 million people each year. If you check two or more items below in our questionnaire, you are encouraged to make an appointment for individual evaluation at the Student Counseling Center. Hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on weekdays. Phone for appointment at 892-2451.

I feel sad and blue much of the time.
I’m not as interested in people and activities as I used to be.
I don’t have much energy.
I’m sleeping more or less than I used to.
I’m discouraged about things.
I feel life isn’t worth it sometimes.
I get irritated very easily.

NATIONAL DEPRESSION AWARENESS WEEK: OCTOBER 4-11, 1998