The "forum was" obvious: Davidson College must make a greater effort to enhance and promote diversity. As the largest and
farthest-reaching organization on campus, the SGA must take the lead in tackling this vital concern. Committee and the Academics Affairs
Trustee Committee. These representatives will be a direct link between the voice of the student body and the trustees, people
who help make decisions regarding admission policies, financial aid packages, and tenure practices. Therefore, I pledge several concrete action steps.

First, we plan to appeal to the Faculty Executive Committee to give this college community a full day off for
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. We will use a formal resolution, letters, and emails from students, and a petition with
hundreds of names as support. Second, we promise to send every faculty member and administrator a copy of a resolution
passed last spring regarding diversity, hiring and firing practices, and class options. By resubmitting this important document, we hope these
decision-makers will more carefully evaluate our suggestions.

Minority groups or groups devoted to this issue cannot solely address this issue. We all must help. Therefore, by this
Tuesday’s meetings, I promise that the Student Government Association will start a working group to examine the feasibility of placing
a non-discrimination clause in one or both of the college Codes. Also, we will organize meetings with the Dean of
the Faculty and other professors to improve minority studies in individual classes, to increase the number of culturally diverse events,
and to strengthen these groups and finalize plans for upcoming events.

The SGA will continue to financially support organizations such as OLAS, ISA, BSC, and FLAG and also events aimed at
promoting minority issues. Then, we will work to change the SGA bylaws to require all Senators to participate in half
of all SGA-sponsored and co-sponsored events, many of which advocate cultural diversity. Finally, we plan to work with our own
Solidarity Committee and Council on Minority Affairs to strengthen these groups and finalize plans for upcoming events.

I do not know what, or even if, these action steps will have any sort of impact. However, what I
do know is that there is a major problem called racism in this country and at Davidson College. Racism, prejudice,
bigotry, a lack of cultural diversity, whatever you wish to call it, is a lack of understanding about people and
unique experiences. It is a solvable problem.

From the College Archives:
1956 - Cross is burned on Richardson Football Field.
1960 - March 1, the faculty votes in favor of removing race and color as a replacement for admission to
the college.
1962 - May 17, the Board of Trustees notes that Davidson’s charter never had set race, nationality, creed, or class
as a condition for admission. The trustees then advise the faculty “to approve for admission those whom they consider properly
qualified...”
1964 - Two black American students enroll at Davidson.
1971 - Eleven black students enroll at Davidson.
1974 - The first black tenure-track professor is hired. Thirty-two black students enroll at Davidson.
1985 - Ku Klux Klan marches through downtown Davidson.
1986 - A black male student is handcuffed while sitting outside Little dorm by campus police searching for someone reported
to be throwing rocks at windows. Although the student does not fit the description of the accused, he is not
released until fellow students vouch for his whereabouts at the time of the crime.
1986 - The white roommate of a black student seriously considers submitting the latter’s paper to the Honor Council, saying
that there was no possibility that it could have been written by the person who usually spoke slang.
1987 - A convicted white rapist roams Davidson’s campus for several days without being questioned. In the meantime, police repeatedly
demand to see the ID of several black male students.
1991 - Dr. William S. Hutching II, class of 1978, becomes Davidson’s...First black alumnus to be elected to the Board
of Trustees.

1998 - There are currently five black tenured professors out of Davidson’s 140 faculty.

What Will Follow?
Allen Lee
Black Student Perspective

What has happened on campus since this incident (in reference to the racial slur written on a poster) has been
quite commendable. The events of the past week did much for my confidence in this school. White students, standing up
from previously apathetic seats, are clearly and vocally joining others already in the struggle for greater understanding. This reaction is
applauded and celebrated as a much-needed first step. Now an essential and previously missing component is beginning to be filled.
However, as we all search for answers, there is one looming question: What will follow? It is great to see
a community band together and face the evil within its midst, but what of next semester? What of next year?
Will these recent enlistees in the struggle renew their commitment voluntarily, or will another incident be required to rekindle their
flame? Also, let us not forget the ones whose minds are still closed to reality. What force will be needed
to jar their intellect? I stand eager to aid those who step up to act. I also stand looking, listening,
and anticipating the answer to these questions.

The Power of Two
Kristen Taylor
Sophomore Perspective

Apathy stands at the real heart of the matter. Overall campus awareness and tolerance must improve. Two words. That’s all
it took to set the campus on its ear last week, literally, as the talk of the weekend was not
the quintessential hook-up, but rather a racial slur. Then, a ubiquitous yellow flyer magnified an isolated incident of two words
into a visual assault a hundred times over. I am not discounting the importance of advertising the meeting, but I
disagree with the sensationalist way in which the flyer was written. The distributor of the flyer commented at the meeting
that she wanted everyone to be affected in the same manner as the original hall that found the flyer. Quite
obviously, the campus was already concerned about the issue, and the unnecessary repetition of these two words only spread the
message of hate across campus.

As we take all the correct steps to address the issue, it remains to be seen whether anything can be
done to correct it. At the forum, mandatory monthly meetings, workshops, and a black history core requirement were advocated, although
making attendance mandatory only resolves the issue of empty seats. As well, this issue was manipulated into a vehicle to
push for a full-day holiday for MLK Day. Neither of these solutions adequately addresses the individual commitment to tolerance and
acceptance that is needed. The only realistic outcome focuses on affecting the mindset of our community. By incorporating the lesson
we have learned into our everyday life, we thereby make it obvious to ourselves and others that acts of this
nature are intolerable and inexcusable.

As members of this community, we have all been violated. This act, a violation of the Code of Responsibility, has
violated all members of our community. Our responsibility under the Code forces us to ensure that this act is not
seen as acceptable or something that can be overlooked. It all started with two words of hatred, and I propose
we delve deep within ourselves and end it with two words of action: do something.
