THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998

‘Dreamworlds’ provokes discussion on music videos

By Joe Black
Staff Writer

“Dreamworlds,” a documentary examining “desire, sex, and power in music video,” was shown in the 900 Room on Tuesday, Nov.
10. Bolstered by the film’s strong response when it was first shown at Davidson, students gathered to discuss what they
see as the implications of sexual content in music videos.

Editor/Director Sut Jhally presents various examples of music videos that depict sexuality and behavior as manifested in the “dreamworld” of
music video. Pointing to the fact that over 90 percent of music videos are directed by men, the film tries
to reveal the implicit comments on sexuality. Music videos tend to create a sexual dreamland where anything is possible as
women’s behavior is modified to fulfill these men’s fantasies. Presented as fans, story characters, band members, or simply as decoration,
the women of music video often share some disturbing traits. The film’s evidence supports the conclusion that the women tend
to be interested in submitting to the video’s men, are treated harshly, and often ostracized from the party that is
the video’s setting.

Several videos also tend to employ women as prison guards, police officers, exotic dancers, and prostitutes, alluding to sex all
of the time and willing to engage in sex with nearly anyone. The women’s uncontrollable desires lead them to “attack
men again,” to what have been deemed as common male fantasies. While the videos of male artists are often the
easiest to blame for the misrepresentation and distortion of sexuality, female artists are not guiltless. Female artists, like males, find
themselves subordinate to an industry that sells music through attractive videos. Females who avoid the common video mold risk alienating
the interests of their industry and their audience. Choosing Janet Jackson as an example of such a female artist, the
film contends that she had to return to the traditional video role for females in order to transcend simply being
“Michael’s talented younger sister.” The film argues that Madonna has become a spokeswoman for female autonomy but then allows herself
to fall back into derogatory conventional roles in her videos.

The techniques of filming women in music videos was another subject examined in the film. By focusing on one part
of the body, the director succeeds in dehumanizing the woman. Such techniques, the film argues, objectify women and detract from
women’s intellect and emotions. The abundance of nearly identical women in music videos further adds to the illusion that women
are essentially all the same and interchangeable.

Finally, “Dreamworlds” juxtaposed violent rape scenes from the movie “The Accused” with scenes from a typical music video, revealing the
blurred lines between an atrocious crime and acceptable video behavior. The film argues that the plentitude of sex,Desire and power
in music videos have implications in the “real world.” Such music videos teach that “the invasion of the female body
is welcome.” Rape statistics and studies of school-age children’s views of sex and violence reveal an unhealthy trend in the
way men and women think about sex and each other, and provide evidence of correlation, if not causation, between the
dream world and the real world. After the viewing, many students stayed for a discussion of the points presented by
the film. The evening was sponsored by Into the Streets and the Women’s Issues Committee.

New public safety director begins work

Davidson’s new Director of Public Safety, Sam McKelvey, wants to encourage a close relationship between his department and the students.
“Because of the small size of the school, it’s possible to know most people by their face, if not their
name,” said McKelvey. “I want to emphasize community policing at Davidson.”

McKelvey comes to Davidson from eight years of service in a similar position at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa. His
resume includes a total of 26 years in campus law enforcement, including jobs at Lycoming College and Princeton University. A
New Jersey native, he majored in safety education at Central Missouri State University and took his first job at Princeton
following graduation there.

McKelvey will supervise a police force of six officers and one administrative assistant and will report to Tom Shandley, Dean
of Students and Vice President for Student Affairs. Shandley praised McKelvey for meeting several stringent requirements of the position. He
said, “We wanted someone with experience in campus law and how it’s different from municipal enforcement, and someone who knows
the health and safety side as well. His responsibilities will include attention to details of regulations in academic labs, OSHA
matters in our physical plant, and EPA standards across the entire campus. That’s a large job, but McKelvey has the
experience to handle it.”

McKelvey was attracted to Davidson for several reasons. “The reputation of the college and area were certainly draws,” he said.
“I heard good things for years about Davidson and its students. When I first visited, I was overwhelmed by the
aesthetics of the campus. But I was also highly impressed by the personnel, both in the police department and other
offices.” McKelvey also says that the warmer climate of North Carolina was a lure for him and his wife, Kathleen,
who will be moving here around Thanksgiving. The couple has two grown sons and a daughter.

YES! Signature:
Tired of Being Turned Down?

INSTANT CREDIT Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits Up To $10,000 Within Days! No credit, No job, No parent signer,
No security deposit! No credit, bad credit, no income? If you think you can’t get a credit card, think again.

MasterCard Credit Cards

ORDER FORM
I want Credit Cards immediately.
CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321
