Preece on and through the afternoon, began as 18016 documents were in attendance. Monday, January 24, elections will be held
for the following positions: Union Board President, Union Vice President - Social Committee, Union Vice President - Co-Curricular, SGA President,
SGA Vice President, Defense Advisor, Student Solicitor, Student Conduct Council, CCRL Review Board, ATC Vice Chairperson; Trustee Committee Representatives: Admissions
and Financial Aid, Buildings and Grounds, Athletic Policy, Institutional Advancement. Run-offs will be held Tuesday, Jan. 27. Compiled by Jessica
Goodson.

By MEREDITH BEATTIE
Staff Writer

Jan. 22 marks the day when guest speaker Dr. David Orr of Oberlin College will introduce a new challenge to
Davidson College. His lecture, entitled “The Radicalism of Holism: Ecological Design and a Liberal Arts Education,” will focus on the
problem of human involvement in the decline of the environment, and the role educators can play in working to resolve
it.

While many people attempt to draw attention to the destruction of our planet, Orr’s approach sets him apart from his
colleagues. Orr proposes that the solution to the problem lies in the current and forthcoming generations. This is nothing new;
many leaders have made the same assertions. However, Orr is not given to a passive approach, where leaders make long
impassioned speeches blindly entrusting the future generations with the welfare of the earth. Rather, activism through increased education is his
chosen direction. By educating young adults on ways to create less impact, in addition to education in rectifying the harmful
inroads already made, the accomplishment of aiding the earth becomes feasible.

Orr does not limit his vision to the United States but emphasizes the interdependence of all countries in this endeavor,
saying, “If we are to make the transition to a sustainable and decent future in a world of 10 to
12 billion people in the next 50 years, the size of the ‘human footprint’ must be reduced 50 to 90
percent. This transition will require broad changes in our ideas, perceptions, and values — which make it, in large part,
a challenge to educational institutions.”

The Environmental Action Committee has been instrumental in securing Orr for this lecture and is using this opportunity as a
big jump start for this semester’s activities. By having an interactive visit from Orr, the Environmental Action Coalition hopes to
promote environmentally focused discussion on campus among students and faculty. Amanda Walker, a leading member of the committee, expresses their
purpose in having Orr as a way to “promote discussion of environmental awareness, and, hopefully, an increase in interest in
environmental activism.”

The Environmental Action Coalition offers many ways to be active, from the maintenance of the recycling program and the cleaning
of Highway 77, to the making of notepads from all those ever-present flyers, and Earth Day observances. Orr will participate
in activities before and after his lecture and will attend the CROP lunch Thursday at noon in the 900 Room.
On Friday, there will be a workshop moderated by Orr concerning actions that will lead to a larger emphasis on
environmentalism at Davidson College.

Orr’s own education includes a BA from Westminster College, an MA from Michigan State University, and a Ph.D. from the
University of Pennsylvania. Currently, Dr. Orr teaches at Oberlin College and chairs the Environmental Studies Program. The impact of Orr’s
vision for education can be measured by the recognition given him by many environmental and educational groups. He is the
recipient of a Lyndhurst Prize from the Lyndhurst Foundation, which recognizes “educational, cultural, and charitable activities of particular individuals of
exceptional talent, character, and moral vision.” He has an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from Arkansas College and is a
distinguished scholar in residence at Ball State University and Westminster College in Salt Lake City. The National Wildlife Federation awarded
him the National Conservation Achievement Award.

In addition to teaching, Orr has authored numerous articles and books, including Earth in Mind and Ecological Literacy, as well
as over 90 articles. Editor of several periodicals, Orr also is a Trustee of the Educational Foundation of America and
The Annenberg Rural Challenge. Orr will be speaking in the 900 Room of the Union at 7 p.m. on Thursday,
Jan. 22, followed by a reception in the Home Room.

By NARESH NAGELLA
Senior Staff Writer

Naresh Nagella of The Davidsonian recently interviewed Davidson’s new mayor, Randall Kincaid. Among the issues discussed were his office’s role
in dealing with the recent shooting and managing the contentious issue of town growth.

The Davidsonian: Can you basically describe for me the type of government that Davidson has? That is, would you call
it a strong mayor or a weak mayor system?

Kincaid: We call it a weak mayor system, which was implemented last summer. Now, the town administrator is the chief
administrative officer of the town. Before, it was the mayor. All the employees used to work for the mayor. Now,
with Randall Kincaid, concerns are displaced. The town is not going to do anything that will lead to increased urbanization
or faster growth that will lead to dramatic changes in the quality of life. What we have is a plan
for downtown. If you look around, you will see undeveloped land that belongs to the town of Davidson. Now, the
question is: Are we going to respond to the people who say that we should have better parking? Well, if
we do that, we should look at the prospect of putting up some retail.Space. Maybe we should plan for a
transit (light rail) station in town. That could involve the town board, under the new manager form, and all the
employees working for the town management. As far as I can tell, there are only two statutory duties for the
mayor. One is to sign legal documents and the other is to convene and preside in meetings. Beyond that, whatever
the mayor does is whatever the mayor can do - like consensus building or information-gathering.

D: What caused you to take the job of mayor?

K: A chance to do something for my town. I have lived here for over 30 years.

D: What did you do before Davidson?

K: I taught economics at Davidson College for 13 years. Later, I taught humanities with a part-time appointment. Now, I
continue to teach part-time in the MBA program at Queens. I have a lot of former students.

D: Could you comment on some of the major issues in town at the moment? For example, I know there
is a “growth” debate going on now, as some townspeople are fearing that Davidson will become an “urban disaster” (according
to a flyer) if growth is permitted and more businesses move into town. Can you comment on these fears and
indicate whether a “pro-growth” party exists in Davidson?

K: Most of the people came into the meeting last Tuesday (regarding this issue) angry at the town. Such anger
can easily happen in the future. The process is now for anyone’s plan to be presented, and then we look
over it and change it to make sure it fits our needs. We have to ask ourselves if we really
want all that unused land to stay empty.

D: So, do you believe there is a prospect for manageable growth? I mean, is there a possibility of Davidson
becoming a Cornelius?

K: I think Cornelius’ town board just felt that whatever happened near the interstate was not really part of the
town, which they considered to be mainly separate from the interstate. And, of course, we can easily manage growth here
in Davidson to suit our needs.

D: Next, regarding the other “big” story over Christmas - the death of Damon Kerns and the police officer -
what role is your office playing in the situation?

K: Our role is just beginning. We need to do something to honor Mark Swaney and Charlie McLean. In fact,
Professor Joseph Gardner is designing a plaque to memorialize Mark that will be hung on Feb. 17. That is the
first task. The second is considerably bigger. We need to ask how the town, including the College, can respond to
the tragedies of Christmas Day in a way to prevent them from ever happening again. So, we are starting a
process tentatively called the “Never Again” campaign. If only the town is involved, though, it will not be successful. We
need the College, the churches, the Ada Jenkins board, and other groups to participate. We especially welcome Common Ground’s help.
Everybody will have to have a major part. Our part will be in community police relations. We are getting a
new officer. We hope that we can facilitate people on the “West” side in forming a Neighborhood Watch, but that
has to come from them. We cannot do that. We have looked very seriously at the things government can do
to cut down the drug trade. One of the things a number of governments have targeted are landlords. If the
landlord has a house that is used for illegal activities, that is unacceptable, and the government has special opportunities to
explore that house compared to your own house. So, we will look at such possibilities.

D: What, specifically, can the College do to help?

K: The College has stepped forward with a small step, but all big things begin with small steps, and is
looking at why more town youth cannot go to basketball games. They are looking at ways to involve town youth
more in College events. I was also delighted to hear that Dean of Students Tom Shandley adopted a zero-tolerance drug
policy. Now, I know that 98.7 percent of the students on campus do not contribute to the demand, but dealing
with demand wherever we can is very important.

D: Would you characterize the college's relations with the town as positive?

K: Not only are they really positive, but they are way beyond positive. It is more of a partnership with
quiet, direct, and regular contact. For example, we just bought a $500,000 fire truck - a big ladder truck. Now,
we could not buy that, but they are needed for the dormitories and for the condos. The College stepped forward
and put up half the money for the fire truck. The town library could not have been built without the
College’s help as well.

D: Students at times suggest that there should be more student-related businesses on Main Street, considering Davidson is a college
town. Would the town ever stop something like a sports bar or some other student-related business from coming here?

K: The town does not have such restrictions. The only problem would be getting the businesses to come here.

WANTED ASAP
Student to tutor a 10-year-old boy in Spanish at our house with possible childcare duties attached. 3 afternoons a week,
salary negotiable. Please call for an interview - 892-5639.

HELP WANTED
Men/Women earn $375 weekly processing/assembling Medical I.D. Cards at home. Immediate openings, your local area. Experience unnecessary, will train. Call
Medicard 1-541-386-5290 Ext. 118M
