12. THE DAVIDSONIAN _ ARTS & LIVING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1998

It’s not all just fun and games at D. P.
Discovery Place offers learning experiences, too
By MELISSA DE CASTRIQUE
Arts & Living Editor

Education. It’s a pretty important reason why we're here at Davidson. It is a shame, though, that most of our
education happens only within the walls of Chambers, Dana, Martin, Preyer, and most recently, the fabulous Watson. As much as
I love these buildings, I occasionally find myself longing for a less collegiate learning environment.

Last Saturday was one such occasion. My friend Jessie and I decided we needed to learn somewhere different, somewhere exciting.
Dang it, we were gonna break out of the mold. I'd like to invite you back through time as I
share Saturday’s experience at... Discovery Place.

Discovery Place, for those of you who are unenlightened, is a hands-on science museum, conveniently located in picturesque downtown Charlotte.
The museum is home to tons of fun exhibits, demonstrations and, best of all, a gift shop. Jessie and I
wanted to see it all. We were presented with a wide variety of options when we entered the door. IMAX
movie? Planetarium? General exhibits? It costs $6.50 for one option, and $2.00 for each additional option. We opted for general
admission and the IMAX movie, Thrill Ride. It was about rollercoasters, we’d been told.

We got tickets for the movie and our symbol of payment for general admission was... a wristband. Well, we all
know what a wristband means here on campus. So Jessie and I put ours on, loudly exclaiming, “We're 21!!! Ha
ha ha, we’re 21!!!" The people behind the desk thought that we were really cool.

Anyway, our first order of business was to check out the exhibits. And believe you me, they have some really
neat ones. Upstairs we found communications, physical fitness, and space exhibits. We played with all the experiments and exhibits too
grand to fully describe before venturing down the green carpeted stairway. We had to clutch the fun silver bannisters as
we marveled at the “rain forest” to the left of the steps.

Downstairs, the exhibits were more life science oriented. We saw a shark, some fish, and other ocean creatures. One little
girl was begging her mother to “touch the flower,” which we identified as a sea anemone. The downstairs level was
also home to the dinosaurs exhibit. Each dinosaur moved and roared, scaring me a bit at first. The prehistoric creatures
were accompanied by information on each dinosaur. Background information was also provided for the large stuffed mammals, located in glass
cases near the dinosaurs. These cases housed a wide variety of animals, from a huge brown bear to a tiny
weasel. I think Jessie summed up my sentiments about the mammal display when she proclaimed, “Man, polar bears are big.”
Ah, the wonders of nature.

When we moved from the main exhibit hall to the Omnimax movie area, we happened upon some other scientific wonders;
my parents. That’s right, even parents and a Backstreet Boy-crazed thirteen-year-old can find something to enjoy at Discovery Place. I
gave my family the movie tickets I’d bought for them (surprise plot twist) and we all moved into the theatre
for Thrill Ride: The Science of Fun. Science? Fun? Jessie, a chem major, sometimes uses these words interchangeably, but I
was skeptical. I was also skeptical about viewing Thrill Ride with my mother, a woman who has to be coaxed
onto the merry-go-round. I ignored these misgivings and charged into the theatre, ready for the ride to begin.

It started with a Discovery Place employee giving the usual speech about not leaving the theatre, don’t put your feet
on the person’s head in front of you, blah blah blah. Oh yes, and of course he threw in the
inevitable motion sickness clause: “If you get dizzy or disoriented during the film, just close your eyes and the sensation
will go away.” Yeah RIGHT, like that has ever happened to me, I thought. I’ve never even had motion sickness
on a real live rollercoaster. I’m tough. I’ve never had to close my eyes during an IMAX movie, and I
could beat up anyone who is wimpy enough to shut theirs. So with these cocky thoughts swarming in my head,
the movie began.

We, the audience, “rode” a rollercoaster, and it seemed pretty real. Not too scary, but it was fun. The narrator
told us about tricks the engineers of such excitement machines use to scare us. For example, did you know that
on a rollercoaster, they place the trees and poles closer together as you near the end so that you feel
like you’re going faster even though you’re slowing down? I didn’t. After each explanation of a tidbit of science behind
the thrill, we would experience another virtual ride. The majority of the film was devoted to motion simulation rides—you know,
Star Tours, Back to the Future, all those rides you think you’re going to hate but end up enjoying. I
was surprised at how fascinated I was by the scientific explanations of effects I take for granted. The more detailed
the explication became, however, the more I longed for another rollercoaster. I certainly got my wish, and this is where
I ate my words from the pre-show disclaimers. The behind-the-scenes look at motion simulation concluded with a thrill ride unaffiliated
with any theme park. This adventure was the movie’s unique “Virtual History Museum,” whizzing us through millions of years at
a disturbingly fast rate. As the graphics got quicker and seemingly closer, I felt the urgent need to close my
eyes. And that sensation did NOT go away, I tellyou. The generic voiced employee was a LIAR. I forced myself
to open my eyes, though, in spite of my queasiness. I told you, I’m tough. Aside from this trauma, I
had only one other major grievance with Thrill Ride—it ended rather abruptly. I felt like the two types of thrill
rides covered by the movie should have been better tied together at the end. When the credits began to roll,
I was surprised at the seeming randomness of the last five minutes of film. Maybe my lack of scientific prowess
was to blame.

As I walked out of the theatre, questioning the movie’s odd conclusion, I noticed that my sense of motion had
passed. I was disappointed to learn that no other members of my party had experienced similar difficulties. I guess the
degree to which the movie affects your senses varies from person to person. For most people, the greatest sensory effect
is the readjustment of your eyes upon moving from the dark theatre to the daylight. This exposure to sunshine did
not end our glorious excursion. After bidding my family adieu, Jessie and I became very involved in the two best
aspects of Discovery Place.

The first was the fun coloring thingy. Yes, that is its technical name. Actually, it is a hanging table that
moved in a circle or oval, depending on how you push it. Then, you lower a wooden arm (with a
marker attached) onto your paper and watch the pen create designs. It’s just about the most passive form of artwork
I can imagine, but trust me, it’s joyous. Just remember to use no more than two colors when creating your
masterpiece. Otherwise, the Discovery Place security guard will glare at you like you're trying to pilfer the interactive molar model.

Last, but certainly not least, we ventured into the gift shop. This place was a wondrous mini-museum unto itself, and
we surveyed the goodies in awe. Everything from crazy pens to science games to animal umbrellas was available for purchase.
And if you’re one of those people (I know you're out there) who is constantly in search of that freeze-dried
astronaut ice-cream stuff, look no further. They’ve got tons of it, Neapolitan style all the way. (This particular ware was
a welcome sight, as we'd found the Discovery Place cafe somewhat lacking. They didn’t even stock cold bottled sodas. We
felt right at home.)

Unfortunately, all good things must come to an end, and our journey was no exception. We sadly headed back to
Jessie’s car, and began the ride home. After a quick layover at Target, our spirits were buoyed by the thought
of Second Night Down festivities. You see, these off-campus field trips are not only fun and educational, they also make
your on-campus experiences less run-of-the-mill. We were infused with the spirit of Discovery Place for at least a week, making
the day-to-day life of Davidson far more bearable. And while we were there, we had a great time. I highly
recommend you try it for yourself.

$$ Hiring Bonus $$

Musicfest from page 11

Were a music major’s nightmare, I was mesmerized by the mosh pit comprised mainly of 35-to-40-year-old drunken, tattooed, shirtless males.
The “King Colossal Dork” award went to this one guy with short, curly black hair who looked like Gilbert Gottfried.
He was most representative of the entire group: likely thought he was “the Man” back in high school, trying to
avert mid-life crisis by immersing himself in late-90’s “alternative” culture. This amusing spectacle, along with the ever-present danger of getting
smacked in the head by an airborne Interpath frisbee, kept the crowd on its toes.

Somehow, all commercial eating establishments within walking distance of the festival were closed that night, forcing us to patronize the
MusicFest vendors, who sold everything for twice its commercial retail value. We’re talking $2.00 for water here. After sundown, we
saw Broughton High School’s (Raleigh, NC’s) own Connells play the Interpath stage for about ten minutes. Not bad, but pretty
generic. The band Everything (of Sig Ep fame) took the stage across the street at 8:30 p.m. The band was
okay, but lead singer Craig Honeycutt’s outdated slang (ended every sentence in “yo,” also used “brothers” with great liberty and
“phat”) stole the show hands down.

Jolene played the best gig of the night. Their music is tasteful, catchy, accessible, and draws inspiration from several different
genres. We missed “Pensacola” to grab a spot on the pavement for one of the evening’s several grand finales, the
B-52’s. The median age of the B-52’s audience was surprisingly high, serving as a testament to this band’s growing antiquity.
The B-52’s haven’t lost a step; a little heavier, perhaps, but still energetic and strange. Whether or not their music
turns you on, their live show is pretty entertaining, with lead singer/tambourinist Fred Schneider’s hot pink apparel in full effect.
Once they performed “Roam,” high point of the evening by far, we crossed the street to catch a few minutes
of the Natalie Merchant-less 10,000 Maniacs. They were okay, but even though I harbor a strong dislike towards Ms. Tigerlily
herself, the band just wasn’t the same without her. And despite outnumbering Local H nearly two to one, Local H
and Mr. T could take them in a fight.

Charlotte was denied an appearance by C&C Music Factory, replaced at the last minute by the Village People. So, in
summary: Carolina MusicFest = good; Local H = loud, Jolene = excellent, B-52’s = gaining weight, but still more fun
than pushing over a Porta-Jon. It may have been the best $15 I’ve ever spent.

Servers, Line Cooks, Bartenders
Rainbow Deli of Lake Norman —
