| DAVIDSON COLLEGE COLLEC

“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

ALENDA

They live to serve.
° Court members discuss service.

NEWS 4

To close or not to close?
That is still the question.

OPINIONS 7, 8

The Davidsonian

A&L 12

Discover the magic.
We'll give you a hint: It’s in Charlotte.

Girls kick ass (again).
Women’s soccer flogs three in a row.

SPORTS 19

Davidson dedicates Belk Visual Arts Center

Sallie McMurray

The Visual Arts Center, which was dedicated last Friday, was named in honor of Katherine and Tom Belk.

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Press Release

Davidson College formally dedicated its arts building as the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center on Friday, Sept. 25.
Although faculty and students have occupied the center since fall 1993, it had not been named.

The dedication ceremony began with a reception at 11:30 a.m. Faculty members Herb Jackson, Deidre Prosen, and Russ Warren talked
about their work, currently featured in the Center’s galleries, at noon. In addition, art history professors Shaw Smith, Nina Serebrennikov,
and Larry Ligo presented works from the College’s permanent collection. The official dedication ceremony began at 12:30 p.m.

Ed Crutchfield ‘63, chairman and CEO of First Union Corporation, spearheaded the effort to name the building in honor of
his longtime friends, Katherine and the late Tom Belk ‘46. Joined by other corporate leaders, Crutchfield raised gifts totaling $2.5
million from Nations Bank, First Union Corporation, the Dickson Foundation, the Belk Foundation, and Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Spangler,
Jr., to create a permanent tribute to the couple’s long and faithful service to Davidson College.

For Katherine Belk, the ceremony was an exclamation mark to her service in the early 90s as chair of the
Arts Facilities Planning Committee whose work led to the construction of the Visual Arts Center.

The Katherine McKay Belk Sculpture Center has already commemorated her commitment to the project and recognized a gift made by
Katherine and her late husband, Tom. Katherine Belk is one of Davidson’s most active trustees. She represented the Charlotte Presbytery
for a three-year term before joining the executive committee of the board, and she has most recently served as a
member of Davidson’s presidential search committee. She is a member and past chair of Davidson’s Board of Visitors.

Tom Belk was a member of Davidson’s Class of 1946. He served the College as a trustee and led the
Charlotte region’s successful effort during The Campaign for Davidson. His unexpected death early in 1997 was a shock to his
family, friends, and the business community.

Located at the corner of Main and Griffith Streets, the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center is the first
campus building people see as they drive into town from I-77. Professor Herb Jackson of Davidson’s art department noted, “That
says a lot about how much this school values visual art.”

The building’s instructional spaces surround a magnificent 45-foot tall central atrium, awash with light from a huge sky-lighted ceiling. It
is constructed primarily of brick, accented with stone and concrete exterior details and a copper roof that recalls nearby historic
buildings. The ground floor houses the William H. Van, Jr. Gallery and the Edward M. Smith Gallery, open seven days
a week, featuring top national artists, and providing a public attraction in downtown Davidson. Also on the ground floor are
the 50-seat Mary D.B.T. Semans Auditorium with state-of-the-art audio-visual equipment, full stereo and video capacity, the Lou and Allen Post
Seminar Room, and a computerized slide collection. Across the atrium, the Armfield-Sherrill Printmaking Wing adjoins the Katherine M. Belk Main
Sculpture Space, which is equipped for work in wood, stone, metal, and clay. The Duke Endowment Collection Storage Facility provides
climate-controlled space in the basement specifically designed for the storage and conservation of art, including the college’s own 2,500-piece permanent
collection.

The art curriculum at Davidson offers students more than 40 courses in art history and studio art, including classes in
Asian art, the Gothic Cathedral, and Modern Painting, as well as studio instruction in etching, drawing, and sculpture.

LETTERS

EDITORIAL 7

PRO LIVING 6

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
