More than just recycling

Knee deep in sludge

By JANET AARDEMA
Guest Writer

I visited Cancer Alley this past weekend. Many of you have probably been there before without realizing it. Many of
you, or your friends or relatives, may even live there without knowing it. Or perhaps you are fortunate and have
no link to this place but are also unaware of its existence. That is why I write this article.

Cancer Alley refers to the corridor from Baton Rouge south to New Orleans that hosts a disproportionate number of petrochemical
companies, landfills, and other polluting factories. Not so coincidentally, the residents of this area happen to be among the nation’s
poorest and also show conspicuously high cancer rates. Cancer that doesn’t discriminate between male or female, old or young.

Why have these people allowed the businesses to take advantage of them and their community? Because many residents are black
and had no legal voice when the factories established themselves. And as for new factory construction, the residents are too
poor to afford the legal fees to fight Big Business.

I wasn’t actually in Louisiana this weekend. I was at an Environmental Workshop/Conference in Birmingham, Alabama. Jerome Ringo, an environmental
consultant and activist, ran a ten-minute video on the Cancer Alley phenomenon. His lecture on Environmental Justice that followed astounded
everyone in the audience.

No one wants the big, nasty, smelly industries in their backyard. But we all support these same companies and their
failure to meet minimal health standards through our everyday practices as well as our apathy in not using political leverage
to stop them and our lethargy in adopting environmentally-sound campus practices. We, as individuals and as a campus, need to
recognize the resounding effects of our activities. With every wasteful, destructive act we eventually hurt ourselves through our air, water,
and resources. But on an even larger scale, our heedlessness impacts those below us on the socio-economic ladder.

We like to use the chemicals and cleaners and plastics and styrofoams produced by the polluting companies. We also like
to throw those same items away to fill the landfills that then contaminate the drinking water of the nearby residents.
(Please don’t disregard this article because you realize that your parents, and soon yourself with your fancy degree, can afford
to live in a neighborhood that’s not near a big factory and send your trash far away to be buried
in the backyard of someone who can’t afford to live elsewhere.)

So this is a plea for awareness. All the food we buy (and throw away), every time we decide it
is way too far to walk to class, and every damn styrofoam or wax paper cup bought in the Union
or recyclables thrown away have effects. Be your respective humanitarian, environmental, political, economical, chemical, historical or whatever: this applies to
us all. Consider yourself now partially informed. There is no excuse for continuing to contribute to the injustice.

If more sensible practices were applied to our everyday lives, the positive effects would multiply and resound as well. For
example, our fine institution would/should be saving money due to smarter practices: less product purchasing, less waste disposal, and more
energy and water-efficient buildings. Then, perhaps, there wouldn’t be the need to minimize student resources (such as 24-hour Chambers access)
in order to cut costs that should have been avoided in the first place by using more efficient lighting, heating,
cooling, and through individual initiative shown by turning off unused lights.

There are a thousand ways to justify responsible actions on our campus, so please consider changing some habits. Especially since
Davidson is hosting an Environmental Clinic from February 12-14, sponsored in part by the National Wildlife Federation. Become involved, or
at least minimize contribution against the efforts.

On a side note, to prepare for the upcoming election, check out What is the deal with dates? By Jenny
Hapcoop

Others seem to have two meanings. One, “date” only refers to a social outing when it’s followed by the word
“function;” and two, it refers to the day that a particular event occurs. Of course, I acknowledge that students are
involved in both, and in no way...Certainly! Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

criti- that — but what of Davidson’s popu- what has happened to traditional dating? Is it truly terrifying to call
a girl or a guy and ask them to dinner or a movie or coffee? I don’t know... maybe it
is. Could it be possible that asking someone out only gets easier with practice? So, who wants to be the
first to go on a “real” date?

Student Health Advisor

Over Fall Break, a close friend of mine visited UGA. While there, she encountered an interesting phenomenon: people at other
colleges date! They actually go out... unheard of, I know. Now I’m not saying that people at Davidson have no
social lives; they do go out. However, Davidson men and women here have different “date” definitions. If I’m wrong, if
this school really does date (when one leaves campus with a person of interest with the intention to get to
know someone else better), please tell me. Fill the Health Advisors in, we’d love to hear your success stories. Help
us turn this campus around. Dating can be more than Homecoming and Christmas Cocktails.

www.lcv.org to see various candidates' stances on pertinent issues. For ways to help Sustainable Campus Development Clinic, call. So grow
a conscience and think about how even our idyllic Davidson is part of its own Cancer Alley.

Attention All SENIORS!

Come to the Chambers Gallery at 8:00 pm on Monday, October 26th for our Class of 1999 Senior Class Gift
Kickoff Party! Food and beverages will be served. Leave the library behind for a while and hang out with your
class! Questions? x2113

Coffeehouse. Magically turns your change into doughnuts. 8:15 - 11:15 p.m.

Benefits Fair. Fair o' benefits. 12:30 - 6:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

Images of Women panel. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Study over grapes ‘n’ Wheat Thins. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

900 Room Committee. Can you believe this doesn't meet in the 900 Room? 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Home
Room.

Twenty-One Year Old Night. Get down with your mature selves from 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Andersen Consulting. They love Davidson students. 3:00 - 11:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

Pep Band rehearsal. 5:00 p.m. in the Band Room (Cunningham Bldg.)

Meditation. Who will be the serenest? 4:30 - 5:45 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Project Life Ice Cream Social. It's FREE! Woo hah! 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Photography Club. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Wilson Room.

“The Lost Boys.” All of your favorite child actors from the 1980s get really scared and stuff. 9:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

Gloria Steinem. Speaks at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

DIFA Information Meeting. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Wilson Room.

Coffeehouse. Drop by after your 9:30 class. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Homecoming ’98. Everywhere, all day long.

FLAG Meeting. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Home Room.

The Write Stuff. Get it? 4:30 - 6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Homecoming. Football game included at 2:00 p.m.

Pre-law Society meeting. Pre-noon on a Saturday. 10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday Night Live. Live from the Outpost, 10:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.

Dinner. Held in Johnston Gym tonight, perhaps. Possibly.

Homecoming. Still raging.

Chess Club. Pawns of fury! 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Wear your coffee-drinkin’ clothes, shoes in which you can get wet, and a big smile. 7:30 p.m. -
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Amnesty International. All students welcome! 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Art Exhibitions. Featuring works by Micaela Amato and Peter Gourfain. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the Belk VAC.

Jumpin’ Java, featuring poetry reading. As if free caffeine alone weren't enough. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

Carney Sandoe Info Meeting. What's Carney been up to these days? Find out! 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

OLAS meeting. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
