» THE DAVIDSONIAN | As I walked through the night air at about 7 p.m. last Tuesday night, a million
thoughts were going through my head: How many people will be here? What will they say? Will something be accomplished,
or will this be a waste of time? Will I get the info I need to write an article? But
soon, my questions were answered. I entered the Davidson Town Meeting with an open mind, and the realization that it
had started about 10 minutes before I got there. The room was full of people, and they were standing in
the doorway to the room, a total attendance of about 75 people. (That is a personal guess.) The topic of
discussion was not what I expected it to be, but it taught me a lot about the opinions, feelings, and
life of this little 1-square-mile town, with a population of about 4000. The topic was how we can improve Davidson
as a whole. The discussion agenda had many parts, but ended up boiling down to what is being done, and
what more can be done. The list of what is being done, from the Common Ground meetings, to helping bring
both sides of the track together, to Ada Jenkins, strives to help the entire community.

After we broke into groups of about five apiece, I learned what really needs to be done. After two citizens
were shot, race relations have been on a lot of town members’ minds. As I walked through the night, what
I saw was a sleepy little town: little traffic, quaint little homes, clean sidewalks, and a new-looking Town Hall, with
the fire station behind it, also new and clean. But at the town meeting, I was reminded of “Christmas night.”
Townspeople don’t say “the shooting,” or even “the incident.” They refer to the death of a young man and a
police officer as “Christmas Night.” This was my first inkling of trouble. People here know something happened, but they just
won't call it what it is: violence, unrest, death. During the meeting, a cameraman from Channel 9 arrived. He asked
to speak to a black woman about the meeting and “Christmas Night.” She walked up to a friend of hers,
also black, and sent her to the cameraman. She said that she was here for a town meeting, not to
be a “black poster child.” She knew she was asked to speak because of her color, and also knew that
her friend would bail her out. At this town meeting about improving Davidson, race seemed to be under the skin
of every comment. The man speaking that night divided us up into groups by counting off, one through ten. I
was a five. I followed my group, planning on not saying a thing, but being a mere observer. Had I
not represented Davidson that night, I could have opened my mouth more than once.

The first comment in this brainstorming session for Davidson-improving ideas was one that jumped out at me and showed me
the true problems in the town of Davidson. An older white man in my group said that the real problem
was drugs. So far, I agreed that drugs can be a big problem, can breed crime, violence, and more. But
then he added to his statement. He thought that the problem was the black kids selling drugs to the rich,
white kids at Davidson.

Student upset by town’s racial issues

Later in the conversation, someone mentioned that there were few black kids in the North Mecklenburg Soccer league. To this,
the older white man replied that black kids don’t like to play soccer; it is a white-kid sport. The problem
is not that the black kids don’t know about the soccer league, but that blacks don’t play soccer. A lot
of great ideas were brought up at that meeting, from a bike path to moving Town Day to the pond
area to include the entire town (not just this side of the tracks). We can easily pay our problems away.
From housing, to churches, to Town Day, money can mask the root of the problem. The point is that people
need to fix the problem one step at a time. If everyone took one step, the problems of the world
would be fixed. That one step is fixing yourself. Comments like, “The drug problem is the black kids trying to
make money selling drugs to the rich, white students” should never be thought, let alone said. What happened Christmas night
was the death of a young man, the death of an officer, and the wounding of a sergeant. It was
the root of all race issues in the town of Davidson. It was not a problem; it merely served to
bring light on the true problem. Ideally, sometime in the future, people will not be black people or white people,
but people with black skin or people with white skin. And by the way, kids play soccer.

As a new semester dawns on Davidson, students find themselves having to buy many new items: books, clothes — and
for Independents, PCC stickers. Some Independents find this extra admission fee to be burdensome and unnecessary. To clear up some
of the confusion about why the $20 per year is needed and what it is being used for, the Independent
senators have investigated the situation and would like to present their findings. To aid our understanding of the situation, we
met with Hallie Pitkin, President of the Patterson Court Council (PCC) and Jim Barber, the Patterson Court Advisor. After reviewing
the system, we have found the sticker system to be necessary. Davidson has had the sticker system for a while,
but only this year have policies. If Davidson did not have this system, they would be forced to require fraternities
to have closed, guest-list-only parties, like other schools do, and thus destroy the open-party system that makes Davidson so special.
The cost of the PCC sticker ($10 per semester) also appears to be justified. The money gained from the purchase
of stickers — $1300 last semester — goes almost primarily to providing increased safety measures for the parties, such as
police coverage, TIPS training, and wristbands, stamps, flashlights, and shirts for Risk Managers. The money does not go to the
houses, as has been rumored, but rather is kept separately in a PCC account. Finally, we have found that Independents
are not being required to pay an unreasonable share of the costs, as compared to house members. Each house is
required to pay $500 per semester to the PCC, plus an extra $15 per hour for each party. In addition,
each house provides entrance monitors, IDers, bartenders, and other necessary personnel.They started to card more actively than in the past.
The sticker system is necessary primarily for reasons of insurance. All of the fraternities’ insurance policies require that they use
a guest list system, whether they are serving alcohol or not. To get around this rule and to allow the
parties to remain open to the whole campus, the PCC has created the sticker system to be, in essence, a
very large guest list. The sticker system ensures that they have control over who is able to attend parties, and
thus, meet the requirements of the insurance mandate.

The PCC has created the sticker system to be, in essence, a very large guest list for each party to
keep the total cost down. The total monetary sum contributed by the houses adds up to greater than $5000 per
semester, as compared to $1300 for Independents. Also, the cost of $10 per semester, when looked at in comparison to
a night out in Charlotte, is extremely modest. In conclusion, we have found the sticker cost to be reasonable and
the sticker system to be both necessary and beneficial, in that it allows Davidson to continue to have an open
party system on the court, which is beneficial to all. We thank all of those who brought this question to
our attention, and as always, we love to hear your comments and suggestions at davidsonian@davidson.edu.

To submit letters to the editor:
Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday at 6 p.m. Or
e-mail any submissions to editors in chief Sarah Ogden or Randy Skattum. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted
disk, preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust
submissions as space requirements mandate.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Libertas article offends, seen as racist

We concerned students at Davidson College are writing in response to Mike Miga’s article in last week’s issue of the
Libertas. First, we would like to state that we found the article deeply offensive. Let’s take a look at the
first few sentences: “It’s amazing the way Indians will find ways to make money. They trick you. They rip you
off. They shit on you.” Those sentences were simply shocking to us. Mike was referring to an incident when a
poor Indian man put some crap on his shoe and a “shoe shiner” later appeared, offering to clean it. He
later calls the man “ugly,” “dirty,” and “some little beggar.”

While Mike’s incident was unfortunate for him, we are at a loss to explain why he would generalize about all
Indians—who are 1/6 of the world’s population. You would expect to find such words in a racist publication, but Libertas
decided to print it in a section called, “The World Outside.”

If Mike had a similar experience in Israel or Africa, would he have stated similar, ludicrous, and general thoughts about
Jewish or African people? Given his readiness to do so in the Indian case, maybe he would have done so.
But we doubt Libertas would have ever printed such a piece. We must ask the entire college: Do we send
our students abroad just to return with racist judgments and inflammatory comments about the most unfortunate and disenfranchised people of
the Earth? Moreover, we cannot understand why Mike thinks conditions are totally different in India than elsewhere. In New York,
it is not uncommon for homeless people to dirty car windshields, only to have other people pop up and offer
to clean them for money. Arguably, Mike looks in the wrong places to see who can rip off whom. The
Savings and Loan scandal in the early part of this decade was a high-scale rip-off by the rich against the
poor (regular taxpayers). Would (or could) Mike generalize about the American people from such an experience? Mike’s beggar simply wanted
to make a couple of cents, given that he does not have any other means (or hopes) of doing so.

We find it totally unacceptable for Davidson College to be supportive of such thoughts in any form. That it was
printed in a publication which the entire student body funds is also abominable. Libertas receives thousands of dollars a year
to express many different viewpoints on campus, but Mike’s views should not be accepted by any educated, rational human beings.
When thoughts such as these get expressed in a community publication like the Libertas, they run the risk of being
dangerously legitimized and appearing mainstream. For example, a recent showing of a 1930’s German propaganda film defiling the Jewish race
was attended by some of us. The film was sponsored by the German government and expressed racist sentiments (not unlike
Mike’s about Indians) regarding the Jewish people. We all know the tragic results of silence to such attacks. We feel
the editors of Libertas were incredibly irresponsible and negligent in even deciding to print this letter.

Nevertheless, it is the absolute duty and goal of a liberal arts education to foster the understanding of cultural differences
and realities. As students of this school, we feel saddened to be part of a learning institution which publicly accepts
such judgmental conclusions. We regret that Mike is bitter about his experience. But we must add that the strong majority
of Davidson students who go to India return with positive experiences and enriched feelings. In fact, the “Davidson in India”
program is one of the most popular study abroad programs that Davidson offers and is respected nationally. Mike, no doubt,
had a bad trip. Unfortunately, however, he should not have taken out his frustration on a whole race of people.
We honestly believe that a quality liberal arts education has been lost on Mike. We cannot see how he will
be able to lead a “useful life of leadership and service” given his stated beliefs. Accordingly, we hope the rest
of the student body now understands that Mike’s sentiments are not shared by a strong majority of students who visit
India, and that his generalizations were wholly inaccurate and unfairly pointed.

If Mike wanted to find a race of people to complain about, we surely hope that he does not think
“Indians” can be used as a “safe” example. History, science, humanity, and basic compassion tell us that no such example
exists. Mike should learn that simple, fundamental lesson, and the college should do a better job of promoting it.

Amali Amarasinghe ‘98
Renu Bhatt ‘98
Saadia Bhatti ‘98
Fahd Gul ‘99
Saad Gul ‘97
Yasar Ishaq ‘00
Prashant Kaishap ‘00
Deepa Kamath ‘98
Rahul Karnik ‘00
Sean Keesee ‘98
Gagan Khanna ‘01
Uzra Khandker ‘99
Naresh Nagella ‘98
Sachin Phade ‘98
Vinod Thomas ‘98
Shalini Unnikrishnan ‘01
