Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

1. I believe that the Activities Tax Council’s primary responsibility is to take the budget with which the Student Government Association entrusts it and to distribute this money fairly to the rich diversity of organizations, associations, and clubs that make the Davidson campus special. Not only is the ATC charged with allocating and distributing the money, but it must accomplish this in a fair and equitable manner. Each organization should receive the maximum amount of money possible to ensure that it can function at its fullest potential. The ATC Vice Chair plays a pivotal role in this process by serving on ATC students. Also important is the influence this organization has on other students on campus. I think that the organizations that try to benefit and to improve the welfare of the whole student body are the ones that are key to support. If I have a shortcoming, it is my single-minded focus in seeing that a goal is reached or that something is accomplished. This would probably benefit the student body because while other areas of my life might be put on hold, I would ensure that the best job possible was done by the committee. Bob Lonergan

2. As Vice Chair, I would spend whatever time is needed to ensure that all the requests are considered fully. Also, I would assist Wesley Hart in every way possible to make sure that a representative committee was selected so that all the different groups had a voice on the committee.

3. Each organization is unique and has specific needs. I see the committee looking at each organization and analyzing its request carefully. Only through this in-depth research can it be determined what each organization requires in order to thrive. Once this amount is determined, the committee must do the best possible job in granting the maximum funds to each organization.

4. One of the keys to ensuring that the allocations reflect students’ interests is to look at the participation in the specific activity. The goal of the ATC is to try to benefit the maximum number of students.

5. The primary responsibility of the Activities Tax Council is to decide the annual budget for all SGA chartered organizations that submit allocation requests. The budget should be decided according to student need and interest and should be allocated as thoughtfully and objectively as possible. The ATC Vice Chair should be a facilitator. He or she should ask the necessary questions and begin the necessary dialogues while keeping the committee on task and in line with its established written guidelines.

6. Having already sat on the Activities Tax Council for nearly one year, my view of the job would be to make every conceivable effort to ensure that the allocated funds of the SGA are handed out in the most fair and equitable way possible. This semester I would work as part of Wes’ committee to ensure that every single aspect of every request was inspected. I would use the experience from this committee to my advantage as ATC Chair next year. I believe that my participation in various activities on this campus will allow me to...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.Look at each request objectively. From my participation on SGA as an independent senator to tutoring at the Ada Jenkins Center to writing for the Davidsonian sports section to my love for intramural sports, I believe this broad base of activities will enable me to understand and appreciate the value of any activity that a student participates in here on the Davidson campus. I am majoring in economics with a concentration in mathematics, and this job encompasses the aspects of both those areas that I love. But above all, my best asset will turn out to be my desire to ensure that the results are achieved with this incredibly important job on campus. That dialogue in combination with adherence to the already established ATC guidelines should ensure that the student interests are reflected in the annual budget.

5. I would say my biggest weakness is not always vocalizing my thoughts and opinions. I usually like to defer to others. I think this weakness will actually help my duties as ATC Vice Chair. From my experience, I believe the primary role of the Vice Chair is as a facilitator. He or she must initiate open and directed dialogues because in those dialogues lay the solutions to the budget allocations. My ability and desire to defer facilitate better organization of meetings and more efficient, thoughtful questions for those students submitting requests to the council.

3. The most important criterion to look for in budget allocation requests is foresight and organization. Students who submit budget proposals should demonstrate a concerted effort in accounting for all expenditures and in explaining how such expenditures will help their respective organization and the student body at large.

4. The Activities Tax Council is comprised of more than just the Vice Chair. The committee members have substantial input into how budget allocation is decided. As Vice Chair, I will help facilitate an open and on-task dialogue between ATC members, members that should represent different constituencies. Other people’s opinions might help the council run more smoothly when deliberating over tough issues.

6. I have served nearly a year on the Activities Tax Council already, and in that time I have become well acquainted with how the ATC budget allocation process works. I have also worked with the current ATC to streamline the process further by adding to and solidifying the council’s guidelines on specific issues regarding budget allocation. I know the types of questions needed to be asked. I know the answers needed to be given, and I know how the dynamic of this council operates. I believe that makes me the most qualified candidate for the position. I have already dedicated a year of work to the council, and would like to broaden my role in helping make this year’s ATC allocation process the most equitable and efficient ever.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

Election Committee Liaison
MATT WEST

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

The Davidsonian would like to thank the following for their help with this special issue:
@ THE COLLEGE RELATIONS STAFF
@ THE SGA
@ THE ELECTION COMMITTEE