Donnelly makes first all-conference team, four Cats named all-tournament
By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

Senior Mark Donnelly was honored by the Southern Conference Sports Media Association and the league’s coaches as a first-team all-conference performer. The 6-5 guard from Neptune, N.J., the winningest player in the history of Davidson basketball, made his second consecutive appearance among the coaches’ picks and his debut on the media’s squad. Donnelly was tabbed first-team by all but one of the SCSMA’s voting members and received the second-most votes among the coaches.

Joining Donnelly on the league’s first team: Furman’s Chuck Vincent, Appalachian’s Kareem Livingston, Western Carolina’s Bobby Phillips, and VMI’s Darryl Faulkner. The second team consisted of East Tennessee’s Greg Stephens, VMI’s Jason Bell, UNC Greensboro’s Demetrius Cherry, Chattanooga’s David Phillips, and The Citadel’s Jamie Jenkins. Appalachian’s Marshall Phillips, neglected by the media, made the coaches’ team.

Donnelly also garnered all-tournament honors. And this time, he had plenty of company from Davidson, as Ben Ebong and Stephen Marshall joined him on the first team, and Ali Ton was a second-teamer. Thanks in part to his 17-point effort in Sunday’s championship game, which tied his career high, Ebong was selected as the tournament’s most outstanding performer. The 6-foot-7 forward out of Omaha, Neb., also had 11 points and 10 rebounds in the semifinal game against The Citadel.

Davidson Second Team
Tyson Patterson - App. State
Derrick Nix - UNC-Greensboro
Ali Ton - Davidson
David Phillips - UT-Chattanooga
Jamie Jenkins - The Citadel

Phillips and Livingston of Appalachian made the first team, while David Phillips, Jenkins, point guards Tyson Patterson of Appalachian and Derrick Nix of UNC Greensboro rounded out the second team.

Davidson defeats The Citadel in conference semifinal game
By Daniel Motz
Senior Staff Writer

GREENSBORO — This is the way coach Bob McKillop and his Wildcats really drew it up. After a 20-point bailout performance from Ali Ton in the Southern Conference quarterfinals against Georgia Southern, Davidson used its more conventional inside attack that has been so potent of late in beating The Citadel 68-59 in the semis on Feb. 28.

“Attacking the interior is our strategy,” McKillop said. “Yesterday they (GSU) did a good job of blocking the inside and our perimeter players stepped up. But our game plan is to attack the paint.”

The 11th straight win for the Wildcats put them in their third league final in five years. For the second straight game, a Davidson player established a career high in scoring. After Ton’s superlative effort, Stephen Marshall tallied 27 points, the most by a Wildcat this season. Marshall shot 9-for-12 from the field, notching 18 of his points in the second half. He also added seven rebounds, all in the second period.

Also crucial to Davidson’s inside play was Ben Ebong, who recorded his third double-double of the season with an 11-point, 10-rebound outing. Trailing by three at intermission, Davidson used a blistering defensive effort to take control in the second half. After shooting 60 percent in the first 20 minutes, The Citadel converted only 26 percent after the break.

“It was a combination of great defense by them and bad shooting by us,” said Citadel coach Pat Dennis. “Their defense was very good. Both teams are ball control teams, and when they took the lead, they controlled the game.”

The Wildcats grabbed the lead thanks to a 24-8 run to start the second frame. The team’s 56-43 advantage with 7:40 left was its biggest of the game. Of Davidson’s 24 points during that stretch, Marshall registered 15. But Davidson could manufacture only four points over the next five minutes and the Bulldogs closed the gap to six at 60-54. Then came the clincher. With just over two minutes remaining, Ebong snagged a loose ball, took it the length of the floor, and delivered a vintage Ebong-esque dunk.

“There was definitely some emotion carrying us down the stretch,” Ebong said. “Maybe the dunk was a dagger that took the wind out of their sails.”

Prior to the semifinal, The Citadel was the only team in the conference that Davidson had not beaten this season. The Bulldogs downed the Wildcats Jan. 5, 74-59 in Charleston, S.C., in the teams’ only other meeting.

“Things were much different then,” Marshall said. “We have a different game plan now and we were not having much fun at that point of the season. Now we are having fun on the court.”

“Opponents just have to pick their poison,” Ebong added. “If you stop the inside, our perimeter players will step up. And if you stop the perimeter, our interior players will get it done.”

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1998

Wildcats top Appalachian for league championship
Squad advances to first NCAAs since 1986
By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

GREENSBORO — Appalachian St. mastered the entire Southern Conference but for one team, and that’s all that mattered. The Mountaineers, 15-0 against the rest of the league, went 0-3 versus Davidson — the third and final loss coming in the Southern Conference championship game March 1 at the Greensboro Coliseum, as the Wildcats topped Appalachian 66-62 to advance tothe NCAA tournament. For coach Bob McKillop’s Davidson squad, making its third appearance in the title bout in five years, the win erased nagging thoughts of fruitless efforts in the past. And the Wildcats, 6-8 after a home loss to VMI on Jan. 12, have won 12 straight and 14 of their last 15 heading into the school’s first NCAAs since 1986. “What this team accomplished this year is a great statement about life and about being a human being,” McKillop said. “These guys took ownership of a dream, and it started 12 months ago. They invested themselves passionately. And when you invest yourself passionately for 12 months, the dividend of a championship is a tremendous reward.”

“This is a great feeling,” said fifth-year senior Mark Donnelly, who has played on all three of McKillop’s 20-win squads and scored 13 in the final. “To think of all the times we came to this point and fell on our face — my freshman year, two years ago — it’s been such a long road with so many struggles. This team, for us to stay together the way we did with the troubles we had, to not lose faith in each other, to trust what the coaches were telling us, and to go out there and do it when the chips were down, is such a credit to the character of this team. I just can’t believe we finally did it.”

Davidson used dominant bench play and typically stringent defense to earn the elusive berth, as the Wildcats outscored Appalachian 36-2 in points from reserves and held the Mountaineers to 35.6 percent shooting. Kareem Livingston, an all-conference post player for Appalachian, had his third subpar outing against the Wildcats this season, managing just eight points and four rebounds. Ben Ebong scored a career-high-tying 17 points and had nine rebounds in 30 minutes, landing tournament MVP honors for his performance throughout the weekend. Billy Armstrong stepped in at the point guard slot for an injured Ali Ton, tallying 10 points and four assists in 23 minutes. The 6-foot-2 senior reserve knocked down three free throws to seal the victory in the game’s final minute.

“It was extremely gratifying for me to see Billy Armstrong come in and perform with the poise and courage that he did,” McKillop said. “His presence in the game was a very key factor for us in maintaining the attack.” And lightning-quick scorer David Burns couldn’t have picked a better time to post his highest points output since Jan. 2, nailing three three-pointers in a span of less than two minutes midway through the first half. “I thought our bench was a veteran bench because it’s been experienced in tough games, especially Billy,” McKillop added. “David’s a prolific scorer. He showed that. Each time a guy came off the bench, they gave us a shot in the arm.”

The Wildcats jumped out to an early 12-7 lead before Appalachian’s Marshall Phillips made two threes to put the Mountaineers up 13-12. And that’s when Burns entered the picture. The 6-foot-7 pure shooter from Winston-Salem rained threes from the right side, the left side, and the top of the key, as Davidson opened a six-point spread 9:48 before intermission. “We knew about Burns, but not enough to put him on our scouting report,” said Appalachian coach Buzz Peterson. “I guess that’s a mistake on their part,” Burns understated.

Clinging to a 32-31 advantage with 5:05 to go in the half, the Wildcats’ defense upped its intensity, holding the Mountaineers scoreless for the rest of the half. The result: a 40-31 Davidson halftime lead. The Wildcats twice opened game-high 14-point leads early in the second period — 45-31 on a Stephen Marshall free throw with 18:51 to go and 52-38 on a Davor Halbauer three at the 16:03 juncture. And Davidson stood 4:49 away from the NCAAs with a seemingly comfortable 61-51 lead on an Ebong lay-in. But taking advantage of a Wildcat cold snap, Appalachian manufactured a 7-0 spurt in the ensuing four minutes and change, inching within three points, 61-58, on a bomb from Tyson Patterson at the 1:17 mark.

Another Davidson meltdown in the tournament final? Not with Ebong on the floor. The consummate sixth man tallied his 16th and 17th points on a clutch eight-foot jumper in the lane, cementing his tourney MVP laurels — and, more importantly, the Wildcats’ spot in March Madness. Following one of two free throws from Armstrong with 39 ticks showing on the Coliseum clock, Ebong came up with a steal off Appalachian’s inbounds attempt. Armstrong picked up the loose ball and was fouled again. This time he made both, and despite scoring just seven points in the final 6:19, the Wildcats were better than Appalachian — again — and on their way to the Big Dance.

“I guess they just have our number,” Peterson sighed after the Mountaineers’ seventh loss in eight tries versus Davidson. “Davidson showed how you should play us — zone us, let Tyson Patterson and (forward) Blair Adderly have their shots, and surround Kareem Livingston. Davidson will be a good representative for the Southern in the NCAAs.”

The Brothers of DAO present The Third Annual GOLFING FOR GEHRIG Sunday, April 26 Contact John Steffen (x6080) or Sean Doyle (x6416) for more information.