THE DAVIDSONIAN

FLAG Fashion Show

Sallie McMurray

Last Saturday, Friends of Lesbians and Gays presented their annual fashion show in Chambers Gallery. Here, Irene Middleton (right) presents Cintra Pollack with an award for the Union Board’s act.

NEWS
Neuchterlein offers advice

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1998

for international success

By Ashley E. King
News Editor

Speaking about his experience in international business, Jeffrey D. Neuchterlein shared his insights on how to succeed in the international arena as part of the Dean Rusk International Career Series. The second of four speeches, this installment of the series was held Thursday, Nov. 5 at 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. The speech attempted to educate students about international opportunities in the job market.

Currently the managing director of National Gypsum Company, Neuchterlein has worked in a myriad of professions, ranging from law to politics to teaching. Although he attended law school, Neuchterlein learned quickly that law was not what he wanted to do in life, going straight from his first job at a law firm in Washington, D.C. to working under the Carter administration on Capitol Hill.

After his experience in national government, he then moved on to a more local form of government, working for a Virginia governor. From there, Neuchterlein moved into a seven-year teaching career. His other accolades include working for two years under the Clinton administration just after the President was elected and working in venture capital investing.

From all of this experience, Neuchterlein gave Davidson students advice about the business world and particularly about the world of international business.

He first gave advice to students about whether or not they should go to law school. “You need to be very careful about your choice in graduate school,” Neuchterlein warned. Urging students not to go to law school simply because it sounds like a good thing to do, he went on to say, “It’s a huge mistake to go to law school without the knowledge of what it is to practice.” Later on in his speech, he added that law school “is three years, and it’s a huge chunk of time if you don’t end up practicing law.” If a student is considering going to law school, Neuchterlein suggested that they “spend some time with a lawyer.”

Joking about his experience on Capitol Hill, Neuchterlein said that it is “like being in college.” His reason for this analogy was that college is one of the only times in life when nearly everyone around a person is almost the same age. On Capitol Hill, he pointed out that besides those in the House and the Senate, “the vast majority of people are in their 20s and 30s.” Because of this situation, Neuchterlein feels that people in this field have the opportunity to be in positions of power at a very young age.

For anyone wishing to explore this area as an occupation, he said that there are “two ways of going into public policy.” In one path, students can go straight into working for the government after they finish their education. In the other, they can build up an admirable reputation in another career and then attempt to find a job in public policy.

Because having a reputable experience in another profession can help a person immediately receive a higher position in public policy, Neuchterlein suggested the latter course to students.

Finally, Neuchterlein gave some general advice to students about how to pursue an international career. He feels that the best way a student can get a job in today’s market is to “be aggressive. Use the Davidson alumni network.” He later added to that thought: “Target companies. Find out who from Davidson works there or write letters blindly.” Some of his other advice pertained not to how to get a job, but to how to embellish one’s life through work experience. “Surround yourself with intelligent people,” he said, “and you’ll challenge yourself.”

By sharing his experience in business and international business, Neuchterlein gave students advice about possible paths they can take as they plan their futures.

INSTANT CREDIT

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No Credit, No Job, No PARENT SIGNER, No SECURITY Deposit!

No credit * bad credit * no income?

If You Think You
Can't Get A Credit
Card, Think Again.

VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards

I want Credit Cards immediately.
CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

Signature

Tired of Being Turned Down?

Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!

MasterCard