When I was in high school, I used to have a recurring dream in which I was giving a talk on stage during our daily Assembly. All of my fellow students were leaning forward in the Chapel pews, intently listening to me expound upon some subject or other. I stood up at the lectern, effortlessly delivering nugget after nugget of wisdom. Nearing the climax of my speech, I hit my audience with an uproariously funny joke — light on tact, heavy on sarcasm — and... nothing. Blank stares. Drool. Yes, it’s true, my worst nightmare is not one in which I show up for Bio in my undies, or star in a porno with my grandfather, but one in which I am surrounded by people who lack a sense of humor.

When I arrived at Davidson, to my horror, I realized that my high school nightmare had portended my college experience. People at Harvard understand humor, so do people at Yale, and I had ended up at a place similar to PCU where myriad issues of the paper focused on the lack of graham crackers in the Union Cafe. Could I really thrive at a place that condemned a condom-tossing Santa, which was the highlight of my 1996 holiday season? Well, it’s been hard, but I’ve survived. I have had to live out my nightmare almost daily, but have come through it by buffering myself with a few key friends who never take themselves too seriously.

And here’s the point of this article: Lighten up, Davidson Students. We’re forever harping on the REAL world and how close we think Davidson approximates it, if at all. The fact is, in the REAL world, no one gives a damn if you do your best thinking between 1 and 6 a.m. (it’s more likely that you just wasted away the daylight hours anyway) or you are offended by your favorite 7-11’s stock changes. To paraphrase somebody more famous than I, unless you write something worth the reading or do something worth the writing, you are an insignificant waste of space that God has mercifully granted only about 65 years on this Earth.

Because I realize the truth of the above statements is exactly why I believe that Dave and Erich’s column is the only one I ever need to read. Amidst a complaint-filled mass of mediocre writing (why are people allowed to exempt from Comp 101?), their articles stand out. True, they complain, and errors do exist within their writing, but at least they’re funny and they’re (usually) complaining about something of consequence. (They really DO need someplace to work on those “buff” bods, and Baker ain’t it.)

So, knowing all I know about Davidson, I guess I wouldn’t have been surprised at the hate mail they received about one little comment nestled in the cracks of a hilarious column: the Mrs. Degree. I owe it to the opposition to admit that it is a hackneyed joke. Gloria Steinem would probably say that joke or no, Dave and Erich are sexist pigs. Maybe. But it is precisely within the context of Davidson College that the joke exists as an absurdity more than a viable insult. To answer Carrie Arthur’s question in her nota bene to an otherwise powerful article: NO, Dave and Erich do NOT really think that a woman would come to Davidson just to find a husband. They go here, too, remember? They know exactly what you went through, and go through, to succeed here and then go on to find a richer, better-looking man at grad school.

I can only conclude that Arthur and others were miffed because many people here are insecure about going to Davidson, when they presumably had a choice, just because no one outside of the Southeast has heard of it. Hello, name recognition isn’t the point, the education is. Whatever the reason, picking a pet issue like feminism and then following through on the easy stuff is trendy and counterproductive. The feminist cause has been severely hindered by the image of feminists as bitchy, defensive, man-hating lesbians. You can work for sex-equality and still have a sense of humor. In other words, please realize that equality will be the result of winning the war, not of squelching little battles against funny guys who use bad jokes for entertainment value.

As a nudge in the right direction, here are some worthy issues to ponder: -Women still...earn less than men at comparable jobs. In many states, birth control is virtually unavailable to the women who can least afford to have another child — hello, back-alley doctor with a coat hanger. If that makes you as mad as irreverent guys who think you’re a stupid gold-digger, go write a truly useful letter of complaint: to your congressmen. Answer me one question: Don’t you think that it’s about time this issue be brought to light? If so, read on.

This past summer I was living and working in Charleston, S.C., a fabulous town which a handful of Davidson students call home. I think most people who know the structure of the downtown area would agree with me when I state that it has one of the worst parking situations of any city in the entire nation. You just can’t find a space when you need one, or even when you don’t, for that matter. Now, it’s safe to say that a horrendous parking issue such as this would promulgate a little bit of shady behavior on the part of citizens and tourists alike. People are going to try to get away with parking illegally. Some, in fact, will escape the long arm of the law and others won’t. What’s the punishment for those violators of justice? An $8 fee. Nothing, right? Well, I’ll let you in on a little secret. Having to pull eight bucks out of my wallet for the purpose of forking it over to the city of Charleston would make me think twice about parking illegally there again. But a $50 fine for the same infraction here makes me absolutely irate. Honestly, just because a good portion of the student population already pays a sizable sum to attend this institution, does that lead policymakers to believe that we’re all filthy rich and can afford an exorbitant parking fine, such as, say $50? I hope not, because that would surely sound like they’re being quite discriminatory, something most people look quite unfavorably upon.

And what of these $50 fines? Where does the money go? To the campus police department via more training, increased personnel, or better technology? To more parking spaces? To a high-speed monorail system that can go from one end of the campus to the other in a shade under 30 seconds? (Hey, it could happen.) Or what about enforcement? We have to pay $80 a year for a service that, honestly, is not up to par with other schools. What do we get? An ugly mustard-colored sticker that allows us to maintain a car on campus. Well, we’ve been here for nearly two months now, and I’ve noted a number of the cars on campus, parked in student spaces, still do not have the registration sticker. Are the campus police ever going to ticket them? Hell, why bother with the registration in the first place? Not to mention this past weekend, where (and we all saw this) cars were left anywhere and everywhere on campus, blatantly disregarding the rules yet never once ticketed. But this speaks for itself and needs no elaboration from this kid.

Don’t get me wrong. I really do feel that our campus police department does a remarkable job with respect to promoting safety at Davidson. I sincerely think it’s great that students can traverse our campus comfortably and without fear during the early hours of the morning. But one must not forget that it’s also the little things that count. Enforcement of the rules is key, but let’s not pick and choose our violators. The only reason I parked illegally in the first place was because I’d seen it done many times before without consequence. But I digress. I assert that the monetary value which Davidson has attributed to a parking violation such as mine is not at all reflective of the violation itself. Instead, it is a seedy way of charging us what they think we can pay.

After debating this issue with a dear and critical friend, I was led to believe that I would have to prove, using empirical evidence, that the fine for a parking violation on this campus is outlandish. Thus, I called a few friends at other schools and found that fines there for similar infractions are considerably less. A parking violation at Virginia Tech, for example, only carries a $15 penalty. And, just to make sure I’d covered all my bases, I then focused upon the town of Davidson itself whose rules and regulations do not apply to our campus but do, indeed, surround it. Here I discovered that a parking violation similar to that of mine would be met with a $10 fine. I just don’t understand how there can be so great a difference between their fine and ours... unless I account for the fact that we are being unfairly discriminated against because of a stereotype.

I know what the underlying idea is when the campus police throw $50 fines at us for parking violations. It is meant to be a deterrent and to keep us from being repeat offenders. Or is it? Perhaps they’re just trying to make some cash the easy way. If it’s the former, as I noted previously, a much smaller fee would most likely have the same inhibiting effect. But if it’s the latter, well, that’s just a shame. For an institution whose roots have been buried in soil so full of honor and integrity, schemes such as that are just pitiful.

On another note, just in case someone was thinking of towing me because of a dissenting opinion with regard to this matter, I don’t own a truck after all. Rather, I, not Dave Kaul (who, in his insightful article in this week’s edition, has illustrated that libel is, in fact, a relative term), am the proud owner of a green ‘96 Jaguar XJS convertible with Florida tags. Come and get me.