“In defense of the Court — and us

“We're just doing our job.” It’s an overused, increasingly odious cliché used by many — including me, on occasion —
to justify an unpopular decision or action. Lately, I find myself using it more and more often in reference to
The Davidsonian’s coverage of Patterson Court. Through various media, The Davidsonian and I have been attacked for covering only the
negative aspects of the Court (i.e., when a fraternity or eating house gets in trouble) and ignoring all of the
positive things the Court accomplishes.

While I (strongly) disagree that The Davidsonian covers only negative Court stories, I do realize that we do not devote
as much coverage to the Court as to other aspects of life at Davidson. This is due to two things:

1) In order to report news, we have to know that it exists — And thus far, we have heard
about negative occurrences on the Court more often than we have learned of any of the positive occurrences. (Chalk that
up to human nature if you want; people seem more fascinated by alcohol violations than service projects.)

2) The news section — as well as every other section of the paper — is currently understaffed. We don’t
have enough writers to cover every story, and obviously, we can’t print articles that people don’t write. Given a choice
between a mundane report and a more unusual occurrence, writers often choose the more sensational (negative) stories. (Human nature again.)

But this in no way reflects a Davidsonian bias against the Court. On the contrary, over half of our editorial
board belongs to eating houses or fraternities, and many of our staff writers are Court-affiliated, as well. Patterson Court offers
the College more than throw-down-and-dance shindigs every weekend; it also sponsors and participates in service activities. Speaking from a Ruskie’s
point of view, we are encouraged weekly by our service chairs to become involved in any number of projects, and
Rusk even sets a minimum service requirement of three hours per semester. In the past, the Court has also co-sponsored
Spring Frolics in conjunction with the Union.

The value of social activities on the Court should not be discounted, however. At a school where so many sleep
so little while placing an enormous amount of pressure on themselves, the Court is a savior of sanity that encourages
students to “get down with their bad selves” for at least a few hours a week — Court affiliates and
independents alike. Eating houses and fraternities also provide opportunities for students to gather during the week for meals and other
activities, allowing them to form bonds with a semi-large group, but in a setting more intimate than the Commons. Along
with the Union and its affiliates, the Court allows Davidson to be the well-rounded place that it is.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1998

The Utensil Effect — It all happened in the Commons during lunch last week. Upon sitting down at our usual
lunch table, a friend of mine posed an odd question to my dining compatriots and myself: “Did you notice anything
different about breakfast this morning?” he asked, ever so tangentially.

After repeated comments concerning the astounding quality of the scrambled eggs and the grapefruit, my friend held his hand aloft
and said, “Watch.” When all of our eyes were focused upon his delicate, white plate, he began his surprising demonstration.
The fork, which had lain askew over his french fries, was not prepared for what was to occur next —
nor were we. Using the handle of his knife, my friend lifted the fork into the air, all through the
use of magnetic attraction. However, rather than ending there, my friend decided to expand upon our bewilderment by spinning the
fork underneath the supporting knife, an event everyone should witness at least once before they die.

Now, I could continue on and tell each one of you how this was the one day that I neglected
to take a knife from the silverware rack upon my entrance into the lunch line, but I won’t. Rather, I
would like to share with you what I witnessed upon the completion of my meal, and into that evening. Normally
when I finish a meal, I simply get up from the table and wander over to the conveyor belt to
drop off my tray. However, this time, I took the time to notice that with all of the noise that
my friends and I had made, through our laughter and through the clanging of falling silverware, we had somehow made
an impression upon other members of the Commons’s dining community.

As I walked away from my table on this day, I observed other tables where brave patrons were sharing this
new experience with their friends. This was not just at two or three other tables, mind you; it occurred at
the majority of the tables in the Commons. The laughter and merriment that was magnetized silverware could be heard throughout
the dining facility. This event did not end with the last turkey on a poppy seed bagel, no it did
not. Well into dinner, I noticed ravenous Davidsonians take a moment from their scarf-fest to show their friends the now-famous
knife and fork trick.

What I saw on that day was more than just a fascination with a basic principle of physics. It was
more than just a distraction from the hum-drum life of the Commons eater. What I witnessed on that day was
an example of the transfer of thoughts and ideas that happens every day on this campus. In classrooms, each student
shares hisor her feelings or interpretations of a certain historical event, mathematical function, or literary masterpiece. When other students leave
that class, they have learned something new, something that was brought to them by one of their peers, by one
of their friends. In our dorms, we each share our own little idiosyncrasies with our friends. Expressions that I would
never use like, “Son of a crud” and “Aw, geez,” have now become standard fare in my daily vocabulary, all
as a result of interaction with my friends. It is kind of funny how, when we arrive at Davidson, we
know that we might change — a little bit, at least. What we don’t realize, though, is that when we
arrive at Davidson, we are going to change others, as well.

Marae E. Cates

Crarnckeg 3 ite)

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS @

Momix review was good

I enjoyed the Momix review.

Sincerely,
Chad Diamond ’01

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

News Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Op-Ed Editor
ERIN McKINLEY

News Layout Editor
MIKE GILLESPIE

Photo Editor
SALLIE MCMURRAY

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Sports Editors
DOUGLAS CUTTING
WHITNEY BLAKE

Copy Editors
MERRITT ABNEY
BRATTON HOLMES
CINDY CLARK
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

Circulation Manager
ANNA ERICKSSON

Advertising Managers
LYNSAY MADLEY
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS

Sports Layout Editor
DAVID JOHNSTON

WILLIAM MORETZ
SCOTT REEDER

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail
any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich
Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise
adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

Because eligible faculty are presently under consideration for tenure, both students and faculty should remember that the tenure review process
is governed by carefully written procedures and is not complete until the Board of Trustees of Davidson College votes on
tenure candidates in April. The complete tenure review process is described at length in the “Faculty Handbook.” Any speculation regarding
the outcome of tenure reviews in advance of the Board of Trustees meeting in April is inappropriate and may well
be inaccurate as well as ill-informed.

Reviews of tenure candidates occur first within individual academic departments, then in the elected Faculty Tenure Committee (FTC), and next
by the Dean of Faculty (who sits ex officio with the FTC), then the President, and finally before the Board
of Trustees. Independent review occurs at each level. Departments make recommendations to the Faculty Tenure Committee, which makes an independent
recommendation to the Dean of Faculty and the President by Apr. 10. Candidates are informed in writing of the outcome
of the department and FTC votes within 24 hours. The tenure review process is confidential, although candidates informed of the
department and FTC recommendation are not restricted in their right of free speech. As a result, there may be public
concern or discussion of recommendations within the tenure review process at various levels when those recommendations are neither final nor
decisive. Recommendations by departments may differ from recommendations by the FTC, the Dean of Faculty, the President, or the Board.
Only the Board of Trustees can award tenure. No recommendation in the process leading up to the vote by the
Board of Trustees is binding on the Board. The Board is fully informed of the recommendation at each prior level
of tenure review. Student opinion plays a significant role in the tenure review process at all levels by means of
individual student letters and student course evaluations. At this point in the process, however, any unsolicited communications to the FTC
will be referred to departments for their information. I hope this helps clarify the thorough, fair, and complex process of
tenure review currently under way at Davidson College, a process that is currently incomplete.

Sincerely,
Robert C. Williams
Dean of Faculty

Thanks from Fleming

To the Editors:

On Monday night, Feb. 16, I was privileged to give my “Wild Turkey, Cold Duck, and Beer-Selling Frogs” program to
a great group of Davidsonians in Chambers Gallery. This was the World Premiere of that particular program and you, the
Davidson community, were the best audience before whom I have ever spoken.

I want to extend again my thanks to all who attended, as well as to Georgia Ringle, Jim Barber, Tom
Shandley, and Bobby Vagt, who combined to make this program a reality. I forgot to bring evaluation forms that I
would ordinarily pass out at such a presentation, so if anyone has any comments whatever, please feel free to e-mail
me at either swear88@aol.com or vfleming@littlerock.state.ar.us. And for those of you who have already submitted questions regarding the Katie Lutz
story — no, her father’s placing her on her side did not contribute to her death due to alcohol poisoning.
It is possible that had he rushed her to the ER she could have been saved, but more than likely
she would have met the same fate as Scott Kruger at MIT, who was kept alive in a coma for
a few days before his death. If you were not there and want to know more about the Katie Lutz
story, e-mail me.

Judge Vic Fleming
Little Rock, AR
