THE DAVIDSONIAN

Scott & Stringfellow, Inc.

Resumé drop ends at noon on Tuesday, October 27.

- Scott & Stringfellow is a prestigious and dynamic full-service investment bank headquartered in Richmond, Virginia.
- We are looking to hire 4-6 talented and motivated individuals to join our growing Corporate Finance Team.
- We promote and foster an entrepreneurial driven team approach.
- As a Scott & Stringfellow Financial Analyst you can expect to:
  - Experience meaningful and frequent client contact.
  - Become an integral part of our growth that has seen Corporate Finance double in the last two years.
  - Participate in a wide variety of financing or advisory activities in a diverse array of industry groups.
  - Be exposed to opportunities for longer-term career positions.

We encourage you to read our literature in the Davidson Office of Career Services to learn more about our firm and the Corporate Finance Financial Analyst position, or call Matt Gilman or Matt Thompson at 1-800-552-7757.

Scott & Stringfellow, Inc.
Investment Service since 1893

---

Wildcats Field Hockey suffers tough losses

By Doug McGirt
Staff Writer

Last week was not a very good week for the Davidson Wildcats field hockey team. They dropped games to Wake Forest, App. St. University, and American University to bring their season record down to 2-8. After a tight 2-1 loss at Appalachian State last Monday, which the ‘Cats will have an opportunity to avenge later this month, the team traveled to Winston-Salem on Thursday to take on Wake Forest. The Deacons were ready for them, and won 9-0 in the most lopsided loss of the season thus far for the ‘Cats.

Davidson hoped to rebound on Saturday, when they hosted American in an afternoon contest. The effort was there, but the Wildcats simply ran into a strong team in American and lost 6-1 in a hard-fought game. The ‘Cats’ lone score came off an inbound play with just over seven minutes left. The goal was impressive, but it was too little too late.

Next week the Wildcats will look to improve upon their season record with a pair of tough road games on Friday and Saturday at Virginia and Columbia, respectively. These games are the first of a long road trip that also includes games at Villanova, Davis and Elkins, and the University of Richmond.

---

The Robinson-Humphrey Company

Would like to invite all graduating students interested in investment banking opportunities to consider its Corporate Finance Analyst Program in Atlanta.

Resume Deadline — October 13, 1998
Interview Date — October 27, 1998

Robinson-Humphrey, headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, is a leading national investment bank serving growth-oriented companies throughout the United States.

Contact University Career Services for Additional Information:

Leslie Dubuque
Recruiting Coordinator
(404) 266-6903

Ashley Buha
Analyst
(404) 266-6909

Chris Hunter
Associate
(404) 266-6202