THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING

MOMIX falls short of expectations

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

Two inquisitive sophomores seek cultural enrichment — a narrative tale

By JOSH BENNETT
Guest Writer

First, let me say that if I had known in advance that I was going to be writing about the alternative dance troupe known as MOMIX, I definitely would have taken some notes during the show. Unfortunately, I’m now the writer by default, which is okay with me, except now I can only present to you the things that have been ingrained in my mind about that curious night, which for the most part concern this messed-up Texan with whom I am acquainted, known only as the Beserker (with no first “R”).

A little while back, the Beserker presented me with an advertisement depicting two rather physically-fit individuals in tight striped uniforms. The first was a man swinging a baseball bat, and the other was a woman, back arched, attempting to avoid the menacing implement.

“We have got to go see this,” quoth the Beserker.

“I think not,” said I. “If I want to see other males gyrating in tight clothes, I'll just go up to your room. Besides, that’s when me and Ed watch Star Trek.”

“Come on, don’t be a sellout. Maybe this will convince you,” said the Beserker, with a sly grin. He then covered the man with his left hand, leaving only the woman and the bat visible to my inquisitive eyes.

“Hmmm...,” I murmured, beginning to see his logic. “Although you obviously possess the sexual maturity level of a twelve-year-old, when you present the performance to me in this fashion, it does become more intriguing, albeit on a more base level.”

“Whatever,” sneered the Beserker. “I heard they get naked.”

So off we went, the Beserker et al., to Love Auditorium to see the famed MOMIX, making ourselves five dollars poorer and probably missing a good viewing of Seven of Nine in the process. But whatever.

As we took our places in our rather poor seats, the Beserker was obviously already growing anxious. “They’re ten minutes late!” he snapped, like an addict being made to wait for a fix. As the lights finally began to dim, a smile crept across the Beserker’s face. “Oh yeah, you know how daddy likes it,” he whispered, almost inaudibly.

The first act, cleverly named “Orbit,” consisted of a young woman clad in spandex spinning an extremely large hula-hoop and dancing continuously for about five minutes. Although you wouldn’t think it, this was actually quite an impressive physical feat, although the Beserker’s only commentary was, “I lika de spandex!”

Other well-choreographed acts followed. These included a man and a woman hanging off of each other in various exhibitions of their balancing abilities, probably due to grotesquely large inner ears. There was also a woman running around with an umbrella draped with semitransparent cloth over it so as to look like a jellyfish. This turned out to be the Beserker’s most favorite act of the night. “Dude, that was so hard-core. She was definitely naked under there. No, really, she was!”

After that, there were some people on skis who jumped around a lot and balanced on the tips of the skis, which was actually rather engaging. There were some other acts too, I think, but I started daydreaming about Wonder Woman or something and got distracted.

As the Beserker fidgeted in his seat, we waited through the fifteen-minute intermission for what I thought was the grand finale, excerpts from a piece entitled “Baseball.” This consisted of what one might expect in an alternative dance act about baseball. To begin, two guys dressed in tight striped spandex took swings at invisible baseballs that made audible “cracks” when struck.

“Dude, this is so not what I paid to see,” moaned the Beserker. Then, about five women clad in similar attire pranced onto the stage swinging bats in sync with the music, making theBeserker’s eyes light up like those of a small child on Christmas morning. Then, they brought out the big guns, so to speak. Six performers climbed into large barrels made up to resemble Budweiser beer cans while the James Brown classic “I Got You (I Feel Good)” pounded our tender ears. Although the homage to excessive alcohol consumption surely warmed the heart of any red-blooded college student sitting in the audience, the performers who were standing in the cans did little more than rock them back and forth to the funky rhythms of the Godfather of Soul. Sort of like going to a car race and watching the cars fly by at 35 m.p.h. I could’ve done that.

“Dude, that was so not hard-core in any way,” moaned the Beserker, “It’s definitely time to bounce.” Although we would miss the actual grand finale of the show, called “E.C.,” I was getting pretty hungry. “Yeah, I doubt we’ll miss much.” “Word,” said the Beserker. ‘Word’ indeed.

Outside, we discussed the night’s preceding events. Although on the whole, I had been fairly impressed by the performances put on before me, the Beserker was not of a like mind on the matter. “Dude, that was so unmoney. Your ideas suck.” “If I remember correctly, and I do, this was totally your idea, an idea which resulted in us basically setting four five-dollar bills on fire,” I countered. “Oh yeah, my bad,” replied the dejected Beserker. I tried to cheer him up, with little effect. “You would have to admit, though, we did see some fairly impressive physical feats in there, accompanied by equally impressive displays of agility and coordination.” “[Expletive] that noise, man. Money says none of them could do a full triathlon. But check this — basically, I paid my five bucks to see a bunch of buff chicks naked, and that I totally did see. Dude, jam session later. I learned a kick-ass new Pixies riff.”

Contributed Photo @ Excerpts from “Baseball” were performed last Wednesday as part of the Davidson College Artists Series by the alternative dance troupe known as MOMIX. By Wesley H. Goldsberry Arts & Living Editor

Little Professor Book Center on Torrence Chapel Rd. (next to Harris Teeter and Caribou Coffee in Cornelius) will host a poetry reading from 4:00 - 6:00 p.m. this Sunday, February 15. The reading is free and open to the public, and will feature poetry composed by seven Charlotte-area authors, including two Davidson professors. Drs. Tony Abbott and Gil Holland of the English department will read several of their works, as will poets Natasha Saje, M. Scott Douglass, Margerie Goggin Allen, Nancy Lammers, and Hannah Liles. The event will also feature guitarist Tom Billotto. All of the featured authors have been published in some form. M. Scott Douglass is the editor of the “Mainstreet Rag,” a Charlotte-area literary publication. The reading will offer a unique opportunity for area students and community members to witness this sort of event close to home. The reading will be followed by a short autograph session.

@ Horoscope Writers @ Art Exhibit Reviewers WE’RE LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD LIVING PEOPLE. @ Arts & Living Editor @ Campus Event Correspondents Call Wes Goldsberry (x6383).

WANTED: Couple for housekeeping and ground maintenance. Attractive caretaker’s house (2 bedrooms, recently renovated throughout) available for couple in exchange for housekeeping of large house and upkeep of 15-acre grounds and care of three dogs. Additional salary and benefits negotiable. Approximately 25 minutes from Charlotte, N.C. Perfect for right couple. You must be non-smoking, responsible, intelligent, with strong references a must. Call (704) 386-6532.

COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
e COMMERCIAL
e AERIAL
e BROCHURES
e MURALS
e INDUSTRIAL
e ADVERTISING
e CATALOGS
e PUBLISHING
e PRODUCT
e PROMOTIONAL
e DISPLAYS
e STUDIO ON-SITE
WARREN STUDIO
INSTANT PASSPORT
FOR APPOINTMENTS CALL
WEDDING SUPPLIES
19725 OAK ST. CORNELIUS
Dark Room Space