_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Wildcats upset Lacrosse from page 15

having a very good season. She had started every game this season and had played good defense. Still, she didn’t
have any goals until this point. With under thirty seconds left, Barker was fouled, and she would shoot a penalty
shot. After another whistle from the referee, Barker rose to the occasion, beating the Duquesne goalie. With just twenty-four seconds
left, Kara Barker put the ‘Cats up for good at 19-18.

While Fleck and Barker provided the most memorable moments of the contest, many players had great games. Linda Rothemund, seventh
in the nation in assists per game, totaled seven points on five goals and two assists. Senior Katie Nelson, in
her last game at home, had two goals. Lauren Kenchington continued her excellent freshman campaign as she had three goals
and an assist. Freshmen Lacy Garcia and Lauren Hancock scored one goal each.

This weekend, the lacrosse team traveled to Pennsylvania to face both Villanova and Bucknell. At Villanova, the ‘Cats wanted to
avenge an embarrassing 21-4 loss last season. On Saturday, Davidson played possibly their best game of the season as they
beat the Wildcats of Villanova 14-9. The win improved Davidson to 5-8 on the year.

At the start, both teams traded goals as the score was knotted at three with 18:24 remaining. Villanova was a
one-woman show as junior Meghan Doyle scored their first three goals. Then Villanova scored three unanswered goals in the next
3:55. Unlike past instances, Davidson came right back. Seven seconds later, Amanda Fleck beat Villanova goalie Julie Pinnix. Davidson scored
four more goals before half, and they entered the locker room tied at eight.

The second half was all Davidson. After Doyle scored again just eleven seconds into the half, Davidson didn’t allow another
goal the entire game. Davidson dominated the rest of the contest as they scored the last six goals. Four of
these goals belonged to freshman Rachel Bowen. Davidson’s defense and goalkeeping turned in one of its strongest performances of the
season, and the final result was Davidson Wildcats 14, Villanova Wildcats 9.

The ‘Cats ended their season on Sunday afternoon at Bucknell. Davidson gave the Bison a good challenge before falling 12-8.
Amanda Fleck scored three goals and added three assists. Linda Rothemund had three points on a goal and two assists
to end the season with twenty-nine assists, shattering her single-season record from last year. Rothemund also ended the year with
a team-high fifty-seven points. Fleck finished with thirty-one goals and twenty-one assists for fifty-two points.

While the ‘Cats have reason to be disappointed with a final 5-9 record, the future looks bright. The ‘Cats only
lose two seniors, Katie Nelson and Jen Williams. While both were important players and leaders, Davidson has many good lowerclassmen
to take their place. Almost all of the ‘Cats attack returns next season. The top five point-scorers (Rothemund, Fleck, Lauren
Kenchington, Rachel Bowen, and Katie Williams) all return. The midfield and defense will be back, with the exception of Williams.

It is reassuring to know that Kara Barker, Lauren Hancock, and Stephanie Hunter all have two or three years left.
Coach Schwartz also has to be happy with the way the freshmen produced. Three scored over ten goals, and both
Hancock and Hunter were vital parts of the defense. Freshmen Liz Hoekstra, Lacy Garcia, and Brooke Wheeler all played well
in significant minutes and will be better next season.

Lacrosse faces two tough teams over Easter break

BY BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

While most students were away on Easter Break, the women’s lacrosse team wasn’t on vacation as they faced two tough
opponents. For those students who complain that Davidson’s teams rarely face prominent opponents, they should check out the lacrosse team.
This season, they have played a difficult schedule, including Duke, Notre Dame, Virginia Tech, Villanova, and Richmond. Over break, they
faced both the Buckeyes of Ohio St. and the Vanderbilt Commodores.

Davidson entered the game against Ohio St. on a three-game losing streak. They had been severely hurt by the loss
of Katie Williams for the rest of the season. Williams had been leading the team in goals and was averaging
3.1 points a game. Also, the absence of starting goalie Lisa Benjamin due to illness had led to starting either
Carley Goodnoe or Kim Taylor in goal. Both players had little or no experience in net. Ohio St., one of
the few midwest schools which play lacrosse, presented a challenge to the depleted Wildcat lineup. The Buckeyes took advantage of
Goodnoe, making her first start in goal. She was beaten eight times in the first half. Ohio St. also used
their quickness and very balanced attack to take an early 8-2 lead. In the second half, it was more of
the same as Ohio St. scored eight more times. While the ‘Cats raised their level of play in the second
frame, they fell to a final score of 16-7. Freshman Rachel Bowen had a career-high three goals. Katie Nelson and
Lacy Garcia also added goals. The Buckeye defense did an excellent job containing both Amanda Fleck and Linda Rothemund. Both
were held to only one goal each. For Ohio St., Celeste Cianfrani led the way with four goals. Gillian Grim
had a hat trick, while both Mara Simpson and Miranda James each tallied two goals.

On Easter Sunday, Davidson traveled to Nashville to face a very talented Vanderbilt team. Earlier this year, Vandy had given
#1 ranked UNC a huge scare before losing 9-6. They dropped a game to Duke by the same margin. It
would be a long afternoon for the ‘Cats as the Commodores jumped out to a 12-1 halftime lead. Fifty-five seconds
into the contest, Kristin Ehst scored for Vandy. They dominated the first four minutes of the match as they led
3-0 at the 26:00 mark. Andrea Legath, who led Vandy with three goals and four assists, would add a goal
before Davidson got on the board at the 16:12 mark with a Rachel Bowen goal. As has occurred several times
this year, the ‘Cats were hurt by a large unanswered run. This particular run put the ‘Cats down by eleven.
In the second half, things evened out a bit. Davidson scored the first two goals of the half. They were
also aided by the strong play of goalie Lisa Benjamin. Benjamin, who started the second half in relief of Goodnoe,
stopped six out of the twelve shots she faced. Davidson’s Lauren Kenchington scored the last goal of the game. It
was her fifteenth of the season. Once again, Davidson was a bit overmatched when it faced teams with scholarships.That said,
the outcomes would have been closer, if not different, if the team hadn’t been so injury-plagued or had there not
been so many lineup changes. Lastly, it is beneficial that the team is tested against other strong teams.

Davidson Crew team making
By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

On Apr. 17 and 18, the Davidson Crew team traveled to Oak Ridge, Tennessee, for the 1998 Southern Intercollegiate Rowing
Association (SIRA) championships. Saturday’s regatta marked the third of four scheduled races for the team’s spring sprint schedule, as the
team faced off against top southern teams including Clemson, Duke, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Tulane, Vanderbilt, University
of Virginia, Rollins, Rice, University of Georgia, and Washington University.

Despite heavy rains throughout the day, preliminary races yielded strong finishes for all crews, sending the women’s varsity four of
senior Allison Moore, sophomore Sarah Muffelman, junior Kelly Westbrook, freshman Amelia Fuller, and freshman coxswain Laura McGinn to petite finals.
The women finished their preliminary heat fourth of five with a time of 7:31.19, and third of six in petite
finals. The men’s freshman/novice B boat of Aaron Patton, Rob Wartchow, John Richardson, Cabbot Earle, and coxswain Liz Neiheisel, following
a rocky start, narrowly missed a bronze medal to Clemson University in the finals of the men’s open four.

“Initially, I was amazed at how well we rowed, considering the start. It was an incredible race for the team
and we’re really excited about Governor’s Cup,” said Richardson.

The men’s varsity four of seniors David Jackson and Derrick Miller, sophomores Matt Johnston and John Potter, and freshman coxswain
Liz Neiheisel finished with a season best of 7:09.47 for seventh place in their preliminary heat, despite a last-minute reseating
moments before docking out. The men’s freshman/novice A boat of John Dickens, Emmett Weindruch, Eric Salo, Harrison Higgins, and coxswain
Jason Todd finished fourth of six in their preliminary heat with a time of 7:04.97. The women’s freshman/novice A boat
of Emily Shingler, Jessie Brown, Kiernan McGorty, Amber Worrell, and coxswain Jason Todd finished seventh in the preliminary heats with
a time of 8:24.31. The women’s freshman/novice B boat of Daisy Patterson, Adrienne Inskeep, Sarah Witmer, Beth Dederick, and coxswain
Anna Padget finished sixth in preliminary heats with a time of 8:54.05.

A race at Clemson University in late April started off the season for the team, with a close race for
silver by the men’s novice A boat. After an official protest by the coaches, Clemson and Davidson were awarded a
tie for second place.

“We heard coaches and rowers talking saying, ‘Okay, who is Davidson and where did they come from?’” said Weindruch. “It
was a close race with Clemson the entire way, and originally the officials called Clemson ahead of us. It was
a great feeling to see our coaches stand up for us.”

Davidson traveled to Fairfax, Va., Apr. 4 and 5, to compete in the annual Occoquan Sprints. Though turbulent water conditions
and equipment problems proved a strong adversary, the women’s varsity four secured the first gold medal in the history of
the team’s organization, and no Davidson crew finished lower than third place in their heat.

“The last 300 meters we rowed on pure adrenaline,” said Fuller. “When Laura (McGinn) told us we’d won, the feeling
was pure pride for our boat and our team.”

Since its formal establishment in 1994, the Davidson Crew team has nearly quadrupled in size. Attending seven regattas this academic
year, the team has secured five medals, several against top national competitors.

“One of our strengths is that the boats pull it together for a competition. They’re extremely focused and they don’t
let distractions get in the way,” said women’s coach Joanna Flanagan. Flanagan, who rowed as a law student at University
of Texas from 1987 to 1990, has accrued honors at multiple midwestern competitions including Head of the Ohio in Pittsburgh
and the President’s Cup in Kansas. More recently, Flanagan took bronze as sculling Head of South in Augusta, Georgia.

Joining Flanagan as a men’s coach is Wendy Deem, a former coxswain at Marietta College in northern Ohio from 1983
to 1987. Deem’s honors include gold medals at SIRA in 1984, Governor’s Cup in Charleston, West Virginia, and Georgetown races.
As a post-collegiate coxswain, Deem has won medals at two masters’ nationals. Assisting the coaches is former UNC rower Barry
Tomlinson. All three formerly rowed with Catawba Rowing Club.

“The dedication the coaches show for the team is really impressive. They’re doing all of this on a voluntary basis
and working a full-time job besides,” said club treasurer Fuller.

“We’re not doing this because we’re crazy. We’re doing it because we feel we’re making a difference,” said Deem.

Already in its short existence in the rowing community, Davidson’s team is being recognized as a contender.

“No one finished less than third at Occoquan. We hear comments from other coaches about how far along we’ve come
and how well we’re doing given the lack of equipment and the short time we’ve been together,” said Deem.

“I think it’s really admirable that so many people devote such a large portion of their time to this team
despite all the frustration we encounter every day,” said Fuller.

Nearing the final race of the season this weekend in Charleston, W.V., the team hopes to continue to grow with
next year’s incoming class.

“The commitment and energy of the rowers fuels this team. The growth I’ve witnessed in this team makes me excited
for the future,” said Westbrook. “It’s just disappointing that we have to surmount so many obstacles outside of personal athletic
development.”

“It’s an expensive sport. Boats can cost up to $20 and $30 thousand new, and even used shells don’t come
cheap,” said club vice president Dickens.

“We’ve got the athletic talent. We’re proving that with the medals we’re winning. It would be nice to have the
financial stability to support the athletic ability of the team,” said Flanagan.

“It’s so frustrating to be competitive at a varsity level when we spend half of our effort and time dealing
with equipment, financial matters, and the politics of not being a ‘varsity’ sport,” said club president Westbrook.

“We couldn’t ask for a better group of kids to work with. The dedication is tremendous. We hear comments from
other coaches about how far along we’ve come and how well we’re doing given the lack of equipment and the
short time we’ve been together,” said Deem.
