Alright, let’s just settle this now. My name is Mary Perrin, and I have a pet newt. That’s right, not
a fish or a hamster like everyone else; I have a pet newt named Jack. This usually surprises most people
because I’m not a slimy, grimy, grody little amphibian type girl, but when it comes to my newt, I think
he’s the best pet a girl could have. Jack loves to watch “90210” with me, and whenever I put my
Sublime CD on, he twitches his tail and moves his feet back and forth. He hates the Lake Campus because
I lost him once out there, but other than that Jack is a great, easy-going “guy.” Last Friday he was
being especially sweet and endearing, so I decided to upgrade my little pet from the one-gallon bowl to, that’s right,
the two-gallon.

I got to the pet store in the best of moods and traipsed about with my little cart grabbing new
blue rocks, artificial plants, little statues, and various treats for my pet. I parallel the experience to Christmas shopping for
a toddler — only on a smaller scale. Anyway, I hauled this mother-load of merchandise up to the front of
the store and planted myself at the back of a fairly long line. In an attempt to pass the time
I looked around to see what everyone else was buying for their pets. I noticed that the woman in front
of me was purchasing three little pink jelly beans that seemed, oddly enough, to be participating in respiration. Partly from
boredom but mostly from intrigue I inquired about the jelly beans.

“’Scuse me ma’am, whatcha got in the Ziplock?”

A cute little red-headed businesswoman turned around and hissed, “They’re mice, okay?! Baby mice!”

I was a bit taken aback by my fellow shopper’s disgruntled tone and decided that it would be safer to
mind my own business, until... I was still staring at the little pink “jelly beans,” and I noticed that they
were turning a curious shade of blue. Their tiny fuchsia veins were becoming more and more pronounced against their continuously
discoloring skin. Without hesitation I shrieked, “Miss! Miss! You’re holding the bag too tight! They’re suffocating in there!”

The woman reeled around and snarled, “They’re supposed to be suffocating! I feed baby mice to my lizard; alright, you
little snit?!”

Undaunted by this woman’s lack of compassion, I lunged for the bag, but as I snatched it away I toppled
over and landed on the floor. I jumped up and began wildly waving the bag around in an effort to
let as much air back into the bag in order to resuscitate the tiny blue victims. Gradually the bluish color
faded and the “jelly beans” regained their original soft pink coloring. Almost. There was definitely still a hint of blue
left in their little heads, but gradually they started to move about again. I noticed immediately that the baby mice
were bumping into one another and seemed lost and confused.

“They’re retarded!” I shrieked. “You made them retarded! You held the bag too tight and now they’re retarded!” I pointed
an accusing finger at the wretched woman who had inflicted mental deficiency on the innocent baby mice. Then I felt
a rough tapping on my shoulder. A truly unattractive young girl with black lipstick and a diamond stud pierced through
her cheek mumbled that I was frightening the birds and that I would have to leave. With the entire store
looking at me like my skirt was tucked up into my pantyhose, I wiped away my tears, paid, and weakly
wandered towards the front door. Outside, the cold air hit my face and stung the wet streaks on my face
and neck. I experienced a curious feeling of success rushing over me, like I had just tied for first place
or something. Exhausted, I went home, put on the Sublime CD, and as Jack danced around in his new bowl,
I wondered what the baby mice were up to.

N.C. winter rains cats and dogs

Technology brings no warm fuzzies

Well, here we are, right in the middle of a brutal Charlotte winter. At least, this is what natives keep
telling me. So far, with the one exception of the storm that has torn through the mountains over the last
two weeks, very little evidence supports this “winter” claim. What I have seen is bad late-October weather from my home
state of Michigan. It doesn’t really qualify as winter until the temperature remains below 25 degrees for more than two
weeks straight, making the ground so hard it feels like walking on scrap metal. Please don’t read this all wrong.
I came here partially for the weather, so I enjoy being able to hit golf balls in a windshirt at
the end of January. But let’s not fool ourselves, my fellow students — it’s not cold here. It’s cool, and
windy, and rainy, but it’s not cold and wintery. This last week, I have seen a lot of winter coats
worn to combat the gusty winds, but I myself have not knuckled under. My winter coat is at home in
the closet. I decided when I came back from Christmas that a windbreaker would suffice, with a sweater to help
out on the really cold days. So far, I have not regretted my decision. The absence of snow and cold
here, however, is made up for by the second biggest cash crop in North Carolina: rain. If it’s a day
that endsin “y,” then you’d better expect it to be raining. I’m not just talking about a nice, polite rain,
either: this is the rude-obnoxious-uncle-that-uses-your-swimming-trophy-as-an-ashtray/beer-stein rain. This “thing” ruins pants, soaks socks, floods shoes, and generally makes a muddy mess
of entire acres of campus. In light of this, there are a few things that I would advise you fellow
nonnative students to acquire for future North Carolina “winters.” First would be a boat — not a yacht, but one
of those swamp boats from the Everglades. For particularly slushy spots, maybe bring out one of those swamp buggies that
always seem to be racing on ESPN-3 at three in the morning. That should cover transportation, but now we need
to talk about clothing. Unfortunately, clothes are not much help in the kind of rain we’re referring to. I would
recommend waterproofing your entire body with Scotch-Gard. Just to make sure you stay dry, rubber pants might be a good
idea. Now that we’ve got you all outfitted for the rain, it’s time for a little mental conditioning. Repeat after
me: “There is no such thing as the sun, there is no such thing as the sun.” Very good. The
only exception applies to reviews and afternoon labs, when the weather dramatically transforms into a Bahaman June day until, of
course, you return outside; then it’s back on the Ark. Until the real winter arrives here at Davidson, I hope
that you are lucky enough to reach Chambers before the tide comes in. If not, don’t worry; I’ll come by
in my swamp buggy and pick you up. I'll be the one wearing the aviator goggles and rubber pants.

“I feel lonely.” I hear this surprisingly often around here. An objective observer has reason to question how that can
be, with all of the activities and the high level of student involvement found here. How can students feel isolated
and lonely when there is a plethora of activities to participate in and endless ways to occupy themselves? Well, I
think I have an answer among many answers. Technology is responsible for a part (a large part in my opinion)
of our isolation from one another. Cyber-relationships just don’t measure up to talking with someone in person. Buried behind our
books in the library, standing amorphously in line at the Commons, watching television — all of these activities have replaced
those that incorporate human interaction with an independent manner of attaining the same end. We read instead of listen; we
get our food from the Commons instead of cooking it together; we watch television instead of going to see a
play. Interaction is thrown out the window in the name of this pseudo-god Efficiency. In Davidson’s race for efficiency, have
we been left out in the cold? Is that such a bad thing? One should have the choice to spend
every night meaninglessly surfing the web, listening to numbing music and attempting to attain knowledge that can only be learned
by experience. We are alone only on a superficial level as we blast the music in our cars and leave
the television on in our homes although no one is watching. What would it be like to be truly alone
and not trying to satisfy our need for others through electrical speakers, glass screens, and quiet keyboards? As Davidson rushes
on in pursuit of offering every bell and whistle that Amherst, Bowdoin, and Williams do, we should ask ourselves if
following the trend of offering isolation mechanisms, such as cable in every room, is in the best interest of our
community. I think we are hindering true communication instead of promoting it. Perhaps we are experiencing a period of adjustment
to the technological revolution. After the Industrial Revolution, I am sure that it took quite a while to get used
to having fathers work outside of the home. Looking back with 20/20 vision, are we glad that we began to
compartmentalize our lives? Are we really excited about working in a cubicle for the next 20 years, only to ascend
to the corner office with a window? Our society has been incessantly running toward an ambiguous future without ever pausing
to analyze if it is something worth running toward. This loneliness experienced by so many in the community indicates that
the time to ask these questions is now.

The Davidsonian is published Tuesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Union. Incarnate in letters to the editors or commentaries do not
necessarily reflect the Board of Trustees of Davidson College.

To Submit Letters to the Editors: Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union
by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably
saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve
the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.
