Brown Lectures on U.S. Foreign Policy

On Thursday, Nov. 12, in the Homeroom of the Union, Dr. Kenneth Brown, head of the Dean Rusk Program, lectured
on the strengths and shortcomings of a career with the United States Foreign Service. As he stated, “It is my
intention to act as a guide to places where you will find what you want.” Indeed, Brown has had extensive
experience, including 34 years in the Foreign Service and positions as ambassador to the Congo, Cote d’Ivoire, and Ghana.

Payment in the Foreign Service varies from position to position. While senior officers may earn salaries up to $115,000 per
year, starting officers may earn as much as $50,000 per year. Other incentives to join are that the State Department
pays for housing, schooling for an officer’s children, electricity, water, and telephone bills, and, depending on the region they are
in, officers may receive a special allowance. Brown said, “Life overseas varies greatly from post to post.” While some officers
experience what is commonly referred to as culture shock and have a difficult time adapting to life away from family,
friends, and home, others embrace each assignment, regarding it as a new adventure or an opportunity to learn about other
cultures. Because it implies a commitment to adjust each time an officer is transferred, an event which occurs usually after
three years in a country, living abroad can be hard on families.

Brown said that those who generally succeed in the Foreign Service are people who are interested in promoting and protecting
U.S. interests abroad, who are at ease in a foreign culture, who are adaptable and flexible, and who possess good
presentation skills and good oral and written communication skills. A significant part of the Foreign Service is on-the-job training in
various areas such as languages, people skills, and diplomatic protocol.

Even though Davidson College does not have an official major in International Relations, which mainly consists of courses in history,
economics, and political science, it does offer an International Studies concentration, an option that Brown considers better than the major.
The International Studies Concentration is a program which offers students the opportunity to pursue a coherent, multi-disciplined program in international
studies and which would prepare students for the Foreign Service Examination. This examination is comprised of three tests: a general
knowledge component, a written essay, and an oral group exercise in which candidates for a post are presented with hypothetical
situations and asked to suggest a course of action.

Currently, there is a great demand for information management specialists and for economic and administrative officers. However, the State Department
is not the only option for obtaining a job with the Foreign Service. The CIA, USAID, NSA, Department of Defense,
Department of Commerce, Department of Agriculture, and Department of the Treasury also offer positions with the Foreign Service. The next
Foreign Service Examination is scheduled for Nov. 6, 1999, and this time Brown said the State Department expects to recruit
300 officers, nearly twice the number of officers recruited in previous sessions.

PATTERSON COURT COUNCIL

As part of its ongoing efforts to cover the entire campus, this week’s Davidsonian has printed the minutes from the
latest meeting of Court Council.

Attendance
Announcements
(A) The Wildcat Spirit team needs financial help to buy a new mascot uniform; donations or fundraisers by houses would
be appreciated.
1. Order of Omega selections announced this week.
2. Reminder: Fraternity post and bank lists people who have been given bids.
3. House inspections continue this Monday morning before 10 p.m. There will be a more detailed inspection over Christmas break.

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998

BEWARE!

If you are signed up on the AT&T calling plan for Davidson students, you must place your calls by dialing:

8 1 (area code) (number) (AT&T code).

If you dial 9 0... or 9 1..., you may be able to complete long-distance calls using a credit card
or calling card.

However, Davidson-AT&T rates do not apply. Unless you have a rate plan guaranteed by the credit card or calling card
company, your call may be very expensive.

Davidson is required by law to give students, staff, and guests on campus open access to the telephone network for
toll-free numbers and calling cards. Students using open access should be sure they know the rates before they place calls.

GOOD WEEKLY INCOME

Processing mail for a national company! Free supplies, postage! No selling! Bonuses! Start immediately! Genuine opportunity!

Please rush Long Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope to:

MPC, SUITE 391
2045 Mt. Zion Rd
MORROW, GA 30260
