Another one bites the dust. Sometimes I can hardly believe how quickly my time at Davidson is passing. It seems as if classes began just last week, as if we should be preparing for midterms, not finals. Yet here we are in December already. This is the last issue of The Davidsonian for the semester, and this is my last issue as Editor in Chief. Next semester, I will be succeeded by Wes Goldsberry and John Dunwoody, both dedicated members of the editorial board. I have full confidence that they will continue the work that I and other past editors have done to make The Davidsonian truly “The World’s Foremost College Weekly.” There are always improvements to be made, and I think that with two fresh voices at the top of the editorial board box, the paper can only get better from here.

My term as Editor has been an interesting one: Last year, I began editing without sports editors or a staff, but with a co-editor; this year, I lost my co-editor but gained a relatively large staff and a full editorial board. As a group, we have wrestled with how to handle issues such as murder, alcohol poisoning, assault, and racism, among other things. We have left the Union after it closes and sometimes after it opens again the next day, burning the early morning oil to ensure that the paper gets out on time. We have tried to bring you things that are worth reading and considering, and we have tried to maintain an open forum in the Op-Ed pages so that as many student and community voices could be heard as possible.

When I took this position, I never dreamed how difficult it would be — or how rewarding. I’ve truly enjoyed my time at the top of The Davidsonian, but I would be lying if I said I was sorry to leave. It’s time for you to hear from some new people, and it’s time for me to move on to other things. But I will always remember this past year as one of the best experiences I’ve had thus far. I wish I could impart some final wisdom that would make you remember me as the Editor, but it’s just not happening right now. I guess I’m still too young to have many unusual insights about the meaning of life, or even the meaning of Davidson. (Or maybe I’m just too burned out.) But that doesn’t mean I’ll stop looking. Don’t you stop either — and when you figure something out, let us know. We'll be listening.

Sensitive issues

The article below is in its original form, although it has been quite some time since it was first written. My excuse for not having submitted this article at first was that I did not make The Davidsonian’s deadline. At the time I wrote this, much of the campus was shocked by a single incident that most directly affected the black students on campus. The Davidsonian came out with several articles addressing this incident and other concerns that were brought up at an SGA meeting and another meeting for discussion on the incident that followed. Weeks passed, and it seemed no longer appropriate to continue the debate over whether problems with racial relations exist at Davidson College. The Council of Minority Affairs then sponsored another discussion which reunited people to discuss these sensitive issues. The discussion was very successful, and it was apparent that the feelings expressed several weeks before had not gone away. It was also apparent that there was a growing part of the student body who wanted to address these “sensitive issues.” However, there was still a shortage of people listening, disputing, and sharing ideas for a common resolution to the problems presented at this discussion.

In the article below, I have tried to write honestly while offending as few people as possible as I address some of these issues. My initial interest in the subject goes back not to the single racist incident that stirred up a lot of people on campus, but rather a discussion that I overheard and became involved in during a peaceful Thursday night in the basement Belk computer lab. This discussion was between a former teammate of mine and an African American student who has voiced his concerns about the black student’s place on the Davidson campus. As I walked into this discussion, I could not help but notice a small amount of tension as the two students tried to get across their very different points of view. The two argued whether or not there was a problem with racism on Davidson’s campus and how such a problem ought to be resolved. Each student had a very different perspective, as one might expect, since they were of different racial and geographical upbringings. As a listener, I was able to keep an objective point of view through most of the discussion. In the end, my former teammate and I agreed that as non-African American students, our points of view missed the whole picture. We are unaware of the realities of racism, whether being intentional or not, which black students at Davidson College must deal with day to day.

“What are these realities?” I ask. My new friend looks me in the eye and speaks rhetorically: “Why can’t black students on campus get into their dorms without their CAT cards at night (why do we pause before allowing these students into the dorms)? Why can’t I cross the street at night without people who are in their homes turning to lock their doors?” As far as the question about the BSC, its purpose is to give the black students on campus a voice to which the rest of the students on campus will listen. Its objective is to break down the barriers that exist between white and black students not only by giving them a voice but also by allowing them to contribute to the campus’ social environment. Another student has voiced that the problem exists in the name assigned to the house. The “Black Student Coalition House” suggests that the house’s functions are for black students only, when this is not at all the truth. Last, I am told that although my friend and I have not directly contributed to the problems that black students face day to day, I am responsible because I have not done my part to resolve anything. He points out that during the time of Martin Luther King, Jr., much of the progress was made not because one black man voiced his concerns about social inequalities, but rather because the greater society was able to realize that something was wrong. It took men and women of different color facing a problem together before the first giant step toward a greater society was taken. And so I turned to my teammate and neither of us had to ask the question, “What is to be done?” I don’t suggest that we have reached any...Resolution, but many of us over the past week have taken the first step in the right direction. I applaud all those who have expressed their concern and who have shown their willingness to realize the stated problem. We must continue to listen to others’ concerns and take each opportunity we have to work toward a common resolution. I am not suggesting that Davidson is a bad place to be educated, but we can make it better. We cannot ask that a situation be resolved by our fellow students without recognizing the need for our own participation. And here I point to Mr. Donne, who explains in words more eloquent than my own, “No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the Continent.”

From ashes will rise a glorious phoenix

To the Editor:

I hope that The Davidsonian will improve both the quality of its articles and the content. I say hope because given the products of this semester, I see little potential. The first half of Rosenquest’s editorial from Nov. 17 should have clued the editorial staff into basic problems. Sadly, his insights were ignored. The grammatical mistakes on the front page are inexcusable. More discrimination is still needed for selecting and printing student opinions. If the current staff lacks the talent to perform these functions, then they should leave. The Davidsonian should not compete with daytime television for the quantity of trash it can produce. Rosenquest’s embarrassment about the Davidsonian is well-founded. A poorly presented newspaper at the collegiate level reflects directly on the student body. A wise man once said that silence allows people to infer intelligence and a thoughtful nature. Filling silence with chatter merely proclaims the absence of true quality. As a representative of our student body, The Davidsonian ought to be shut up and shut down before it is allowed to imply that our student body has nothing better to publish. Because it is unlikely that The Davidsonian staff will quit, in the future I would like to see the editors get to work. Discriminate. Real newspapers would not print from the same sources as graffiti. Slander is not appropriate. Bogus fiction (even about trustees) is not appropriate. Libertas and Hobart Park are both quality forums for fiction and should be used as such. However, beware: They select only quality contributions. Personal criticisms are also inappropriate and degrade the appearance and the integrity of our student body. News, personal insights, relevant issues, and conflicts are all valuable topics for a newspaper article. Humor and satire are sometimes appropriate. I do not want to sound mean-spirited, but if you want to print jokes, publish a joke book, not a newspaper. It is also important that newspaper articles not merely breeze over and summarize past events, but actually probe issues within them and analyze their impact on the rest of us. It is the difference between Windex and a car wash. In the end, I address this article more towards The Davidsonian staff members than to its readers. It is the staff’s job to implement changes and improvements. But, of course, it is then the readers who must hold them to their responsibilities. I criticize The Davidsonian now because it is both wasting time and potential. I am convinced that at this moment there are lots of brainy students stuffed in and stressed out right here on campus, who have important, interesting, and insightful things to communicate to the rest of us. I actually have hard evidence that there are several pockets of untapped genius. But The Davidsonian needs to provide a decent forum to facilitate such expression. Until then, remove that pretentious “Foremost College Weekly” label: it reeks of satire. It may take some artistic visionary named “John” to lead this revolution (will you lead?), or we may affect it immediately. Regardless, Cindy, I did not mean to degrade daytime television, and everyone else, hope you had a happy turkey day! What, finish up? As you wish.

Michael Gillespie ‘00

Note: Luckily for Mr. Gillespie, we still don’t edit opinions for content or decide which opinions are worth reading. Isn’t free speech great? — Ed.

Thank you for the contributions

To the Editor:

I would like to thank all Davidson students, faculty, and staff who donated to the Room in the Inn drive during Into the Streets week. The drive proved very successful. We collected:
- 160 bars of soap
- 98 sample size bottles of shampoo
- 14 regular size bottles of shampoo
- 49 toothbrushes
- 52 sample size tubes of toothpaste
- 12 regular size tubes of toothpaste
- 82 bath towels
- 97 wash cloths
- 48 deodorants

We also received a number of other toiletry items. Davidson will host twelve homeless guests every Saturday night during January, February, and March. Thanks again for everyone’s contributions to the program.

Amy Smith ‘00

New Hours for Union and Café

To the Editor:

Attention: Late night study folks,

You should already know that the Union is now card accessible 24 hours a day, and after 11 p.m. each night there are designated group and quiet study rooms available. The Union Cafe, including the full grill, has also extended its hours until 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday. Soon, these hours will apply to Fridays and Saturdays as well, but for the time being the Cafe can only staff the current extended hours. I hope you will find these extended hours more convenient. Keep in mind that the extended hours are on a trial basis only, and in order to preserve them, Auxiliary Services must feel students appreciate and use the café late at night. Please show your support by going to the Cafe or by writing Richard Terry or Barbara Metzler to voice your opinion about the new hours.

Cintra Pollack
Union Board President

Take it easy,
Kirk Willingham

Exams and the Honor Code

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Honor Council, I would like to remind students about the importance of the Honor Code in the exam process. Davidson students are privileged to be able to self-schedule their exams, but this privilege requires students to respect the Honor Pledge and to comply with the Honor Code standards regarding cheating. According to the Honor Code, “Cheating is any practice, method, or assistance, whether explicitly forbidden or unmentioned, that involves any degree of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit.” By signing the Honor Code, Davidson students pledge to uphold these standards. Please keep this in mind as you take your exams next week. The Honor Code binds students to report any observed violations. Students should abide by signs in Chambers designating which rooms are open book and which rooms are closed book and also by directions given by professors pertaining to take-home exams. Violations should be reported to the Dean of Students’ office. Please refer to your Red Book if you have any questions regarding the Honor Code, the Code of Responsibility, or the Honor Pledge.

Lee Ann Petty
Committee Chair, Honor Council
Davidsonian Committee