By David Rosenberg, Staff Writer

It was a long night for the Chattanooga women’s basketball team. The smothering Wildcat defense held the Lady Mocs to
just 26 percent shooting from the field and kept a frustrated Katarika Banks, UTC’s leading scorer, under control in its
84-56 stomping win.

Though the Wildcats amassed a 28-point margin of victory, they led only by a mere 11 at the half. Up
until halftime, UTC had managed to make Davidson play their slower style of basketball. Out of the gates to the
second half, though, under the floor leadership of scrappy sophomore point guard Jen O’Brien, the team returned to their patent
running game.

Many to the big, finishing hands of junior Kerry Brown. Brown played spectacularly as usual, throwing herself all over the
statistical charts, and in doing so, reaching her third double-double for the season. She finished with 12 points, six assists,
three blocked shots, and two steals for the evening.

O’Brien and Brown were not the only factors in the large spread of victory. At the start of the second
half, the Wildcats spurted out to 17 unanswered points, aided in part by a fresh, new face in the lineup,
freshman Jennifer Joslin. The 5-foot-10 forward out of Minnesota stepped in big with a three-pointer to cap the 17-0 run,
and later in the half, picked up two baskets on slashing drives. Joslin finished the evening with a career-high eight
points on 3-3 shooting.

“As a freshman, contributing that much was a real thrill. It was the first time that I made a significant
impact for the team — the first time that I truly stopped thinking and started playing,” recapped Joslin.

Other bench-scoring, too (33 reserve points in all), helped the Wildcats soundly defeat the Lady Mocs. Junior Jessica Montrella tipped
in 10 points, while Katy Kamp made a handy contribution of 6 rebounds and eight points. Danielle Mall also contributed
solidly with six points and five boards.

The easy win over UTC gave the Wildcats momentum moving into Jan. 31’s Georgia Southern game, which had drastic implications
for league standings. If the Wildcats came out standing, they would share the first-place position with three other teams. If
they fell, they would plummet to third place in the league, and Georgia Southern would stand alone atop the Southern
Conference.

Head Coach John Filar knew he had the size advantage over the Eagles with center Jennifer “J” Vanlerberghe and forward
Jessica Montrella. The 6-foot-2 towers dominated the backboards and eliminated any hope for second shots by the Eagles. Vanlerberghe ripped
down a game-high 15 rebounds, while Montrella came up with a modest nine boards.

Montrella’s biggest contribution came in the scorebook, pounding in 17 points, many of which came from inside post moves, a
much-needed game for the Wildcats. The lead changed many times throughout the game, and with six minutes remaining, the score
was tied again. The unexpected hero this game was senior forward Danielle Mall, scoring five points in the last minutes,
including a three-pointer that put the game out of reach for Georgia Southern.

Jen O’Brien had another eight-assist game, but this time coupled those with 19 points and four rebounds. Kerry Brown also
played well, finishing just two points short of her fourth double-double of the season with eight points and 10 boards.
The 72-65 win gave Georgia Southern its third loss for the season and pulled the Cats into first place with
Furman, UNC Greensboro, as well as with the Eagles. The Cats finished 7-3 in January, and their hot streak bodes
well for the upcoming conference tourney. A first-place trophy would give the women an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament.

Mark Donnelly becomes Davidson’s winningest Wildcat

GREENSBORO — Senior guard Mark Donnelly, who leads the team in scoring with a 15.3 average, quietly became the winningest
basketball player in Davidson history this week. The Wildcats’ overtime win over Chattanooga Wednesday night at Belk marked Donnelly’s 76th
victory in red and black, more than any other player in the 90-year annals of the program. Ironically, the 6-foot-5
Neptune, N.J., native scored a season-low four points on 1-for-9 shooting in the milestone win.

“Mark’s our leader,” energetic sixth man Ben Ebong said after the victory against the Mocs. “He doesn’t have to score
for us to win. He does so many other things on the court.”“That’s kind of the storyline of Mark’s career
here,” coach Bob McKillop said. “Mark has not made a name for himself as a prolific scorer. Mark has not
made a name for himself because he manufactures tremendous amounts of points, although he has scored points. What he has
done is manufacture wins. Mark is a prolific winner.”

Davidson teams on which Donnelly has played have won 22, 25, and 18 games. This year’s squad, not including last
night’s contest versus East Tennessee St., stands at a dozen wins. He took a medical leave of absence in 1994-95.

Erege has surgery

Emeka Erege, the rookie forward who was just beginning to blossom before breaking his left leg Jan. 24 against Western
Carolina, underwent surgery Thursday. Doctors inserted a rod to provide stability and quicken the healing process. With the procedure, Erege
will not have to wear a cast and will soon be able to start rehabilitation on his ankle and upper
leg.

“They expect a complete recovery,” McKillop said. “They also expect that the recovery will be a little bit hastened by
the fact that a rod was put in rather than having a cast put on. It will give him a
chance to move around much more freely.”

The Davidson coaching staff has tried to offset Erege’s absence by giving more minutes to sophomore Jeff Bergmann and using
Billy Armstrong, mainly a point guard, more at the shooting guard position.

Support group

The crowds are coming to Belk Arena this season at a record rate, and the Wildcat players and coaches have
taken note.

Bree, the first ever Division I hoopster from Ireland, is currently practicing with the Wildcats and will begin playing in
games next season. Former Davidson standouts Brandon Williams and Quinn Harwood met Jan. 7 on the CBA hardwood, as Williams’
LaCrosse (Wis.) Bobcats topped Harwood’s Yakima (Wash.) Sun Kings 120-115 in a quadruple-overtime epic. Williams, known as Ozone during his
career as a Wildcat, tallied a game-high 31 points and added 11 rebounds in 60 minutes, while Harwood finished with
21 points and seven boards. Former Loyola Marymount star Bo Kimble paced the Sun Kings with 24 points in the
contest. Williams and Harwood helped lead Davidson to a 25-5 record and an NIT berth two years ago. Together, the
two averaged over 32 points a game and posted three 30-point scoring nights.

The Wildcats started the season 0-5 in games in which they were outrebounded. The squad has now lost the battle
of the boards in three straight contests — and won them all, bettering Appalachian St., Chattanooga, and UNCG. The squad
has also won three of the last four games in which it has trailed at halftime.

“The crowd was a big factor, especially in overtime,” guard Davor Halbauer said after Davidson’s 53-52 win over Chattanooga Wednesday
night at Belk. “For me, that was the first overtime since I’ve been here, and the crowd was a big
factor. It helped us a lot.”

The support continued on the road Saturday night at UNC Greensboro’s Fleming Gym, as the modest crowd of 1,017 seemed
decidedly pro-Wildcat at times. “Our crowd was sensational tonight,” McKillop said after the Wildcats’ second straight one-point victory. “It seemed
like a home court at times. If we can carry that over into our arena, that would be outstanding.”

The crowd of 5,478 at the Wake Forest game Dec. 3 was the second largest in Belk history. A Belk
Arena-best 851 students showed up for the Wake game, while over 700 attended Davidson’s contest Jan. 22 against Atlantic-10-leading UMass.

Bree adjusting to Davidson

The newest addition to the Wildcat squad, Michael Bree, a guard from Sligo County in Ireland, is adjusting well to
Davidson since he enrolled in school and joined the team in January.

“I think he’s very happy socially, he’s very happy academically, and he’s very happy athletically,” McKillop said. “I believe he’s
thrilled to be here at Davidson, and we’re certainly very happy to have him here.”

If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a freshman or sophomore, you can catch up this summer by attending
Army ROTC Camp Challenge, a paid five-week course in leadership. Apply now! You'll develop the leadership skills and self-confidence you
need to succeed in college and beyond. And you may qualify for advanced officer training when you return to campus
next fall. For details, call UNC-C Army ROTC at 547-2411.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP
