THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1998

Do you really want to do this?

What is this place, a school or a for-profit corporation? First, the Union Cafe all but empties its shelves and
drastically cuts its hours in the name of staying in the black, and now President Vagt has proposed closing Chambers
between the hours of 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. in order to save an estimated $250,000 a year. This is
not a happy thing.

Mr. President, while you may believe that few students study during the wee hours of the night, anyone who has
ever had two papers and a review on the same day knows that a good night’s sleep is rarely in
the cards. And as far as study space goes, our options are extremely limited after 1 a.m. rolls around. Except
for during exam time, the library closes at 1. The Union closes at 1. The 24-hour room is available, but
one room can only contain so many people. And when more than 10 or so stressed-out, sleep-deprived college students are
crammed into a relatively small space, tensions grow, and the first one to breathe wrong is likely to have his
or her head smashed in with a Statistics textbook.

Leaving Chambers open all night with card access was a brilliant solution. Larger, and with more individual spaces than the
24-hour room or the Union can offer, Chambers allows students to study in solitude or in groups, in silence or
with discussion. The white boards are great for working out mathematical problems, and the extra desks or tables let students
spread out their material for 50-page research papers.

If you want to save money, why not simply place signs above each light switch in Chambers reminding students to
turn off the lights when they’re finished? Or (though this is not ideal) perhaps only two of Chambers’s four floors
could remain open for student use.

I shudder to think what we’ll do without a clean, well-lighted place in which to study late at night. Are
widespread panic and steadily declining GPAs worth saving a buck? I think not.

Sarah E. Ogden

LETTER TO THE EDITORS
A lot of hullabaloo

To the Editor:

Last week there was quite a lot of hullabaloo about Jeff Burhans’ column “A Filthy Legacy,” which he wrote about
the late Justice Powell. He argued that Justice Powell’s decisions in the Bakke and Webber cases were racist.

Wow. The next week people were after him like a witch in Salem. Two letters and a column took turns
condemning his letter vigorously. Ben Wolff's, in particular, was well reasoned and researched. However, his column was not the only
thing they condemned. Two writers took their swipes at Burhans in a personal manner as well. Only Kathy Buek refrained
from insults. Wolff sank from writing a well thought-out article to referring to Burhans’ column as an “ill-conceived piece of
twaddle.” Mike McCabe, in a tangent to his piece on freshmen, said that Burhans was wrong, and continuing to speak
ex cathedra, awarded him the “Should’a Gone to a State School” Award. Why was Burhans wrong, according to McCabe? Apparently
because Crabbie says so. Not the sort of reasoning any professor I know would swallow.

Finally, to the point. I happen to like opening up The Davidsonian and reading about something other than the mashed
potatoes at Commons. And I’m foolish enough to think that others do, too. While The Davidsonian is more than a
philosophical and political forum, it should be enough of one to allow discussion without resorting to insults.

Or maybe I should have gone to a state school. They might have more intelligent, mature discussions there.

Jeff Goldman ‘01

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

Business Manager
SCOTT REEDER

News Editors
ERIN McKINLEY
LIZ NEIHEISEL
CARRIE ARTHUR

Circulation Manager
EUGENIA LEATH

Arts & Living Editors
MELISSA ANN DE CASTRIQUE
ALISON KALETT

Sports Editors
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

Advertising Managers
PETER CLARK
DAVID JOHNSTON

Op-Ed Editor
JOHN DUNWOODY

News Layout Editors
EVAN McCORMICK
ELDER GWIN

Op-Ed Layout Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
JOHN DUNWOODY

Copy Editors
CINDY CLARK
EVAN McCORMICK
JOHN DUNWOODY
WILL PARKER
STEPHANIE ERICKSON

Arts & Living Layout Editors
CATHERINE CORNWELL
MOLLY MARKARIAN
AILEEN WATERS

Sports Layout Editors
CADER HOWARD

Photo Editor
SALLIE McMURRAY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail
any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions
should be no longer than 500 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will
be published.
