“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”
Established 1914

Save the elephants.
Help PiKA buy Dumbo.

NEWS 3

Randy sucks.
And he’s a potential rapist, too.

OPINIONS 9

All the world’s a stage.
Methinks I see a drama approaching.

A&L 10

DSS award winners.
Our picks for the best of the best.

SPORTS 13, 14

Christina Biedermann was one of the organizers and the first speaker at this year’s Take Back the Night, held last Thursday in the 900 Room.

Take Back the Night provides a forum for assault victims

By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

Last Thursday, the 900 Room filled to capacity and people had to be turned away for Take Back the Night, a nation-wide event during which people speak out about sexual assault.

This year, ten women spoke of their experiences with rape and sexual assault at ages ranging from seven years old to college-age. Of those, an overwhelming majority talked about their own experiences, and in most cases, alcohol played a role in the assault.

As people filed in, greeters handed them pieces of red string to tie around their friends’ wrists as a reminder of the bond among women and as a promise to watch out for each other.

The evening opened with Diane Krause’s singing; she accompanied herself on guitar. Krause said that for her, Take Back the Night is “a great time of healing, and I hope that happens tonight for individuals and the community.”

Christina Biedermann, who organized the event along with Hallie Pitkin, began Take Back the Night with some statistics: eighty percent of rapes are acquaintance rapes, where victims know their attackers. Fifty percent involve drugs or alcohol.

Only four percent of all reported rapes are false.

“Rape is an act of violence, not a misunderstanding,” said Biedermann. “Bad choices do not give permission for rape.”

Two women who spoke had taken their cases before the Honor Council. In one case, the defendant was found not guilty due to lack of evidence.

In the other, one defendant was sentenced to social probation from the Court and community service hours; the other defendant was found not guilty.

“I didn’t feel very satisfied (with the verdicts),” said the second woman.

She is glad she took her case before the Council, though: “I know I did everything I could do. And that makes me feel strong and good.”

Her case also helped point out holes in College policies, she continued.

Some of the women offered advice for coping with sexual assault. For parents whose children have been molested, one woman said, “Don’t be afraid to support them. Don’t be afraid to talk about it. Just listen; be open.”

“Take your time, use your own words, and surround yourself with friends,” advised another, “and it'll be okay.” Several of the other speakers echoed that sentiment, remarking on the importance of support from their families and friends.

After five women had spoken, Tina Kanter,

See Take Back on page 4

Two Davidson seniors win Watson Fellowship

Press Release
College Relations

Kenneth J. Howard from Charlotte, N.C. received a fellowship from the Thomas J. Watson Foundation. Howard will graduate in May 1998 with a Bachelor of Science in Biology from Davidson College.

Katherine Palmer from Salisbury, N.C. also received a fellowship from the Thomas J. Watson Foundation. Palmer will graduate in May 1998 with a Bachelor of Arts in Art History from Davidson College.

Howard and Palmer are two of 60 Watson Fellows chosen in a national competition among graduating seniors from America’s leading liberal arts colleges. Each Watson Fellow will receive $19,000 to travel on a wanderjahr to explore a topic of his or her own choosing outside the United States.

The Watson Fellowship Program was begun in 1968 by the children of Thomas J. Watson, Sr., the founder of IBM, and his wife, Jeannette K. Watson, to honor their parents’ long-standing interest in education and world affairs.

The Foundation selects Watson Fellows based upon each nominee’s character, leadership potential, willingness to immerse him or herself in new cultures, and the creativity and personal significance of the project proposed.

More than 1,000 graduating college seniors from 51 participating liberal arts colleges vied for the Watson Foundation’s 60 $19,000 grants this year.

In 1998-99, Watson Fellows will visit more than 60 countries, including Australia, the People’s Republic of China, Burkina Faso, Namibia, and Poland.

Howard’s independent study project, “Stalking the Army Ants” will take him to the Philippines, Kenya, and Panama. Although the ants he wants to observe are all considered “army ants,” they will represent three genera or species.

He will be studying the interactions between these army ant colonies and other species.

Palmer’s independent study project, “Oh, What A Tangled Web I'll Weave” will take her to Finland, Germany, Ghana and Crete. Palmer proposes to communicate not with her voice or her eyes, but her hands. The craft of weaving is practiced as a trade or a hobby throughout the world and is often a cultural indicator of a particular region or ethnicity.

Through her travels she hopes to understand and learn from the weavers in each region. She will examine variations in weaving methods used in each culture and observe how these differences affect the final handwoven product.

“Rape is about social values. It is not a women’s issue.”
A SPEAKER AT TAKE BACK THE NIGHT

The Watson Foundation hopes that a life-changing year spent pursuing dreams and passions overseas will result in the Watson Fellows enriching business, science, the arts, academia and other fields when they return to America.

EDITORIALS ................. 6
PERSPECTIVES .............. 6, 7
NEWS ............................ 7
ARTS & LIVING ............ 10
SPORTS ......................... 16
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036