‘Cats Show Improvement, But Same Results Baseball drops two out of three to GSU By Brian MAYERHOFER Sports Editor

Traditionally, Georgia Southern is a power in the Southern Conference, if not a national power. Two years ago, they were
ranked as high as 12th in the nation. Therefore, when the Eagles visited Wildcat Park this weekend with a record
of 13-17 (5-8, in conference) it was shocking. Still, a weakened Georgia Southern team presented a tough challenge for Davidson.

In the first game of Saturday’s doubleheader, the Wildcats lost to the Eagles 16-4. After two innings, GSU led 5-0.
The key hit came in the second when shortstop Dustin Langley hit a two-run homerun to centerfield. While the Eagles
were successful at the plate, blame should not fall entirely on Wildcat starter Ryan Stroker. The Eagles took advantage of
three Davidson errors in the first two innings.

Davidson scored for the first time in the third inning. With one out, catcher Kurt Davis singled. After advancing on
an error, Davis scored when Drew Williams singled. Ben Brown and Brian Joyce both followed Williams with singles. Williams scored
on Brown’s hit. The Cats could have had more runs, but Eagles starter Clint Sauls picked off both Brown and
Joyce.

Ryan Stroker pitched a shaky five and a third innings. The Eagles scored a run in every inning he pitched
except for the third. While the Eagles led 7-2, they didn’t break the game open until the sixth. GSU managed
five runs on five hits to increase their lead to ten. Wildcat reliever Garland Yarborough didn’t fare much better as
he gave up five runs in his outing. Davidson scored its other runs in the seventh and eighth innings. In
the seventh, Kurt Davis singled for the second time. He drove home Stewart Sloan. Brian Joyce took matters into his
own hands in the next inning. With one out, Joyce walked. Then he proceeded to steal both second and third
base. This brought his season total to twenty-three, tying Davidson’s single-season record. Joyce then scored when Mike DeSimone drove him
home. The final score was 16-4.

Davidson turned the tables on the Eagles in the second game. In a 6-3 win, Davidson played one of its
best games of the season. Wes Self gave a great performance, pitching a complete game and striking out four. Davidson
also took advantage of the few hits they earned. The Cats scored their six runs on only five hits. The
Cats took a 1-0 lead in the first inning. Ben Brown led off with a single. After stealing second, he
scored on a Luke Goodwin single to centerfield. Georgia Southern tied the contest the following inning. The Cats were lucky
to only surrender one run in an inning full of mistakes. Catcher Jimmy Alexander got the only hit of the
inning, a single to right. He later advanced to second on a fielder’s choice. Alexander moved to third on a
wild pitch by Self. The Cats would have gotten out of the inning unscathed had it not been for two
untimely errors. Marshall Tyler stopped the rally when he snagged a sharp grounder on his knees.

Davidson’s big inning came in the third. Eagles starter Bill Stewart had serious control problems as he walked three out
of the first four batters he faced. With one out, DH Mike DeSimone singled home both Brown and Brian Joyce.
Goodwin scored and DeSimone advanced to third on an error by left fielder Steve Walson. The scoring ended after Stew
Sloan got an RBI when he scored DeSimone on a fielder’s choice. Davidson added one more in the fourth. Leading
6-1, Self had all the support he needed. His only trouble came in the sixth when the Eagles cut the
Cats lead to three. Self maintained his composure and got Davidson out of the inning. In the seventh, only a
single with two outs prevented a perfect inning. When he forced Alexander to ground out to first, Davidson had completed
one of its best games of the year. The final was 6-3. Self had his best outing of his young
career.

Sunday’s contest was a wild affair. It was truly a tale of two games. The Eagles controlled the first several
innings. After three and a half, Georgia Southern had succeeded in knocking Wildcat starter Jamie McDonald out of the game.
They held a 10-1 lead. GSU first baseman Scott Henley hit his sixth homerun of the year in the first.
After Davidson scored a run in the second, the Eagles increased their lead to four in the third inning. This
was accomplished by three runs on three hits. In the fourth, McDonald was hit hard as he gave up three
doubles. McDonald was relieved by junior Jeff Case. While Case finished the inning well, the Cats trailed by nine going
into the bottom half of the inning.

Davidson began to chip into the Eagles lead with a run in each the fourth and the fifth. In the
fourth, both Mike DeSimone and Stew Sloan singled. DeSimone moved to third on a sacrifice fly by Marshall Tyler. DeSimone
then took advantage of a wild pitch by GSU’s starter Danny Washburn as he scored from third. In the fifth,
Kurt Davis was hit by a pitch for a team-leading sixth time. Taking advantage of one of Washburn’s three wild
pitches on the afternoon, Davis moved to second. Ben Brown moved himto third on a single.

Davis - The Class of ‘98—men’s and women’s basketball, p. 10-11
Rosenberg speaks on coed sports, p. 9
Men’s tennis thrashes Wofford, p. 9
Track teams compete in field of 50 at Duke, p. 15
Women’s tennis splits two matches in conference play, p. 9

Then scored on an error. Jeff Case was the story for Davidson in the latter innings. Case, whose ERA of
4.63 is the best on the team, pitched a brilliant five and two-thirds innings. After being charged with one inning
in the fourth, Case only gave up two more hits to the dangerous lineup of the Eagles. Case’s superb outing
allowed the Cats to climb back into the game.

To open the seventh inning, Jeremiah Parvin showed great hustle in creating an infield hit. With one out, Parvin once
again displayed his speed as he stole his eighth base of the season. With two outs, Brown hit a sharp
single into left field, scoring Parvin. It was Brown’s seventh RBI of the season. The Wildcats showed great heart and
clutch hitting as they had an enormous rally in the following inning. Luke Goodwin welcomed new pitcher Keith Morris with
a single down the right field line. After DeSimone flied out, Sloan doubled to center, and Goodwin scored. The Eagles
only led 10-6 after Sloan scored on Marshall Tyler’s sac fly. Parvin then kept the inning alive with his double
to right field. It was his third hit of the game. After Kurt Davis walked, the manager of Georgia Southern
had seen enough. He replaced Morris with closer Adrian Yother. Dom Talvacchio, pinch-hitting for Mike Torres, stepped to the plate.
On his first pitch, Yother made Talvacchio look foolish as he blew a fastball right by him. Then, on a
2-2 count, Talvacchio crushed a Yother pitch for a home run.

See Baseball on page 9

Sallie McMurray @ DH Mike DeSimone waits on deck against Georgia Southern on Saturday. In the second game of the
day, he drove home two runners in the ‘Cats 6-3 victory.

Lacrosse
By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After playing four out of their first six games at home, the lacrosse team took to the road this past
week. In the end, they wish they had never left. It was a tough three games as the Cats dropped
decisions to Virginia Tech, American University, and Monmouth College.

On Wednesday, the Cats traveled to Blacksburg, Virginia to face the Hokies of Virginia Tech. In a 21-11 loss, Davidson
struggled for much of the game as they surrendered a season high for goals allowed. The Cats stayed even for
the first four minutes of the game. After the Hokies struck first forty-five seconds into the contest, Davidson’s Rachel Bowen
evened things at the 28:45 mark. Then, similar to what occurred against both Duke and Notre Dame, Davidson was dominated
for a stretch, a period from which they never recovered.

At the 25:25 mark, junior Catherine Augustyn scored the first of her six goals on the afternoon. For over the
next ten minutes, Virginia Tech scored five more goals to take a 7-1 lead. Augustyn scored twice more in this
interval. Davidson fought back as they cut the Hokie lead to 9-6 at the 3:45 mark. The Cats received a
strong contribution from several players. Amanda Fleck scored to end the Hokie run at the 16:05 mark. Two minutes later,
Bowen scored on an assist by Fleck. Fleck continued to play well as she scored again with about eight minutes
left in the half. Katie Nelson and Katie Williams also tallied goals for the Cats. Davidson wouldn’t get closer the
rest of the day. Eight seconds after Nelson scored, Virginia Tech sophomore Dawn Will answered with the second of her
three goals. The last 3:37 was played at a torrid pace as both teams combined for six goals. At half,
the Hokies were up 13-8.

In the second half, Tech’s defense tightened up as they yielded only three goals. Davidson also had to deal with
both the strong play of Tech’s goalie, Melissa Wagner, and the Hokies’ aggressiveness. Wagner recorded a season high for saves
with twenty. The game was also very physical as the Hokies played dirty at times, being called for fifteen fouls.
For Davidson, Amanda Fleck was the story. Her third goal of the day cut the Cats' deficit to 15-9 with
19:26 remaining. With forty-one seconds left, and with the game already decided, Fleck tied Sarah Hogan’s record for points in
a career as she scored her fourth goal of the match.

This weekend, Davidson traveled to Washington D.C. to face both American University and Monmouth College. First up was American on
Saturday afternoon. Even though American is traditionally the weakest team in the tough Colonial Athletic Association, they provided a stiff
challenge for the Cats. American outplayed the Cats in...

See Lacrosse on page 9

Baseball
DeSimone leads the Wildcats in several offensive categories: batting average, home runs, total bases, slugging percentage, and RBIs. He added
to his season totals with three RBIs and two runs this weekend against Georgia Southern.

Baseball
Wednesday @ Duke (3:00)
Saturday doubleheader @ The Citadel (2:00)
Sunday @ The Citadel (1:00)

Lacrosse
Friday vs. Ohio (3:00)
Sunday @ Vanderbilt (2:00)
Thursday 16th vs Duquesne (3:00)

Men’s Tennis
Thursday @ UNCC (2:30)

Golf
12th-14th @ Southern Conference Tournament, Wofford, SC

Lacrosse vs. Ohio Friday * 3:00
The lacrosse squad, which lost three straight games on last week’s road trip, has a chance to end their losing
streak against Ohio this Friday at Richardson Field at 3 P.M.
