THE DAVIDSONIAN

Internship: Part I

Oh, what did you do last summer? Did you have a completely fulfilling experience? Did you test your limits? Did you delve into yourself and answer a bunch of questions that you never really get around to answering while you are carrying the Davidson workload on your shoulders? Maybe a few of you did, but my guess is that at least some of you are open to new ideas about what to do during the break, and I have a suggestion: the Stapleton/Davidson Internship. Patricia’s going to tell you about the details, but I'd like to tell you about the not-so-detailed part of the summer, the experience part.

I was placed at The Relatives, a teen crisis shelter in Charlotte. Teens come in by their own accord or with the police. Most of them are runaways or out-of-control teens. It is a short-term shelter, so they can only stay for up to two weeks; the average stay, however, is only six days. During their stay at the shelter, they are responsible for minimal chores and for attending a daily “session.” That’s where I came in. I did at least one (sometimes two) sessions a day. Each child also has a family session, so I did a few of those too. Short-term therapy is based on redirecting the client to best fulfill his or her needs. So, I would meet with one of the residents and talk about what was going on in his or her life, and sometimes a little about what was going on in mine, too.

It is amazing what the kids whom I grew so close to endured. Daily, I would hear things that took my breath away. Really. Any type of crisis you can imagine, and I saw it. Pregnancy, rape, gangs, shootings, drugs, physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse, sexuality issues, suicide, homelessness, neglect — and that’s just the beginning. The workers there are people to talk to; they use common sense to help these kids get exactly what they need, which includes an overwhelming amount of referrals. I learned so much about the web of service agencies in Charlotte.

So, here I am facing life-changing and life-threatening issues with these kids. By no means would any of us qualify ourselves as counselors in the formal sense of the word. But these kids can’t get to counseling. They need a safe place to stay and someone to talk to. Their families need help. These are the people who have fallen through the cracks and have nowhere else to turn. (I am beginning to sound like a Sally Struthers commercial, aren't I?) A crisis hotline also runs to the office, so we dealt with all of these issues over the telephone, too.

Yes, this was an extremely intense and taxing summer. I spent long hours questioning my place, my blessings, and my faith.

The Specifics: Part I

The Stapleton/Davidson Internship is supported through an endowment created by a gift in 1988 from George Donnell Davidson ‘39 and his wife, Anne Stapleton Davidson. The internship intentionally examines the role of faith and service and whether they are mutually exclusive, specifically, through contact with the Chaplain’s office at Davidson and two Charlotte Presbyterian Churches, readings on community, faith, and volunteerism. The interns gain a sense of how service might be an important component of faith and how faith in turn could lead one into service ministry.

As an intern for the summer of 1997, I was placed at Family Center, Mecklenburg County’s only non-profit organization devoted solely to the prevention and treatment of child abuse and neglect. I worked with the development office in FC and did several projects that included setting up a database of gifts in kind and planning a large fundraiser party at the beginning of the summer. For the event, I solicited Charlotte restaurants for food and beverage donations. I also worked two mornings a week at Arosa House, the residential services division of FC. In working with the profoundly abused children, I realized the value of trust and of limits, for those whose limits and trust had been exploited were not as willing to trust me (a stranger) coming into what is essentially their home.

Coming to meetings with Rob Spach, the Davidson Chaplain, and the two ministers at Covenant and First Presbyterian Churches gave me a way to process my experience from a faith-based perspective. Many times, the meetings evolved into joking around or sometimes into serious conversations that would lead us all to a restaurant close by. My involvement with the Church gave me a stronger sense of direction in my life and made it impossible not to integrate my service and faith.

With a stipend of $3000 this summer, the Stapleton/Davidson Internship provides what I think is the best opportunity around to question for a summer. The stipend allowed me to serve others without the stress of having to save summer money. Housing is provided by families who belong to the two churches, which was the route I took — free of charge I might add — or you can live at Davidson in the senior apartments. If you are thinking at all about a change in summer experience, I would tell you to consider the Stapleton/Davidson. It will change your life in the best possible way. For more information, contact Rob Spach at x2420, or call Patricia at x6733. Applications are due the first Friday in February.

The role of death in life

Last week, I read some very moving articles. They were filled with loss and hopes, ignorance and loyalty, and most of all, they were saturated with opinions. And now it’s my turn.

I met Damon during the Love of Learning program in 1995. That was my first year as a counselor-mentor, and I wanted to remember everyone’s name and something special about each student. That summer was one of put their trust in me. I gained strength in what I call life traits, such as love, caring, and patience. I developed a better sense of who I was and where my spiritual walk should be headed. I learned how to make compromises — and not necessarily sacrifices. A part of me that had never been challenged was awakened and brought to light, and I have the many Damons, Telecias, Malus, Anithras, Shans, and Herberts to thank for this.

Now, as I have written, I hope I have given you the idea that I know Damon. But I don’t want to mislead you. Damon and I did not stay up late, talking every night about his dreams and aspirations that summer. I didn’t call weekly to check on him or his LoveOf Learning and Damon

One student’s abbreviated experience with Kerns that same agape love for his family that you or I take for granted. But don’t get me wrong; he was not an “angel” in its most commonly used connotation, and I’m not trying to portray him as such. But as Della Reese might say, he was one of my “Angels Along the Way.” He was not “evil,” nor was he without a soul. I don’t excuse what he did in any way, form, or fashion. I simply ask you to not see the incident in a vacuum, as it may have been portrayed. There were occurrences throughout Damon’s life leading up to this moment. He lived each day, and we do not know all of the people he met, or those who had the greatest influence on him. We are only aware of that the hardest yet most pleasurable times of my life. It was hard because I was working and living with students which is told to “I’m only suggesting you take this incident out of the plastic bubble it has been placed in and understand that Damon’s purpose at the start of his Christmas morning was not to kill Mark Swaney.”

Well, I'm telling you more. I’m telling you about a young man who was near my age to whom I was acting as a mother, sister, role model, best friend, confidant, disciplinarian, assistant dreamer, and much, much more. You see, my job as a Love of Learning counselor was/is not just to keep “those” kids out of trouble while they’re on campus and try to educate “them.” I saw myself as someone who would help students to smile when they had no reason to and who tried to hug the hurt away sometimes. I did my damnedest to reverse the idea that they had not even come close to fulfilling their God-given potential. I “played the role” of rule-enforcer and traveled their schedule with them. I made sure they were in bed early enough to get sufficient rest. I prayed for them nightly. I tried to keep in contact with some during the academic year. But now reflecting on that grand summer, I also took much more than I gave. I found students like Damon, who family. At that time, he was just one of the many blessings (and headaches) I’d received during the month of July in 1995.

When I returned the following semester, I saw Damon from time to time. I may have seen him on campus or at the mall, and I usually said hello. But it was not until the Fall and Spring semesters of 1997 that a true friendship began to develop. We talked on the phone occasionally, and he frequently visited me at my apartment. Earlier last year, I would see him at Love of Learning or college events and make it my business to find out what was “going on” with him. We talked regularly, and I learned more about him in a few months than I had in a couple of years. I thank God for that little bit of knowledge. To me, Damon was a sweet soul. He wanted to “do right” and often ended up the victim of circumstance. He was growing and striving. A high school dropout who, despite the odds against him, wanted to go back to school, and took the steps to start the process. A person with feelings, jokes, love for others, and more than you would have ever known about from an article entitled “Teenager with gun slaughters police officer.”

I’m not asking for your forgiveness or sympathy. I’m certainly not requesting any empathy from the loved ones and friends of Mark Swaney or Sgt. Charles McLean. I’m only suggesting you take this incident out of the plastic bubble it has been placed in and understand that Damon’s purpose at the start of his Christmas morning was not to kill Mark Swaney. I didn’t know Mark Swaney, nor did I have first-hand information about his relationship with Damon. But I am still in prayer for his loved ones, just as I am for Damon’s.

The weekend I saw a man die. Well, more specifically, I think I helped a man die. I assume that by now, most people have learned of the death of the elderly gentleman on Watson Street this past Friday evening, as a raging party took place blocks away. When my friend and I saw him collapse, we called out to other party-goers, hoping for assistance. It was dark, almost midnight. The street was not very well lit. We must not have looked like much more than dark heaps in the middle of a road, seeing that they were about half a block away from us. Despite the lack of visibility, though, these fellow students heard our cries. They slowly turned to look at us, and then continued on to the party.

My two years here at Davidson have been incredibly enriching. Of all the things I have learned here, though, there are two lessons that have been extremely poignant to me: 1) despite my inability to control many of the situations I am placed in, one thing I always have control over is my attitude. I don’t care how lonely or overwhelmed I may feel — at any moment I have the ability to turn a negative situation into something positive, if I want to. Those with the biggest hearts always have the greatest potential to alter the world they live in. 2) People can always change. Every day is new, with no mistakes in it. “What good will it do you to think, ‘Oh I have done evil, I have made many mistakes!’” an old proverb states. “It requires no ghost to tell us that. Bring in the light, and the evil goes out in a moment.”

The distant sounds of the party, coupled with the eerie silence that followed the man’s last sporadic gasps, will always haunt me. I cannot imagine what it would feel like to be his brother...or child...or wife right now. But I will try. I will always remind myself that someday the man lying face down on the cold pavement in the middle of the night, his blood mixing with the tiny pieces of gravel cutting into his flesh, could be me. Herman Melville reminds us, “We cannot live only for ourselves. A thousand fibers connect us with our fellow men; and among those fibers, as sympathetic threads, our actions run as causes, and they come back to us as effects.” When death comes to us, all we can hope for is the comfort of loved ones. More specifically, all we can hope for is the comfort of loving ones. All we have is each other.