@ Senior catcher Dom Talvacchio gives the signs to reliever Fritz Anna Judy Porter. Talvacchio narrowly missed a home run in the seventh.

Baseball drops a game to UNCC
BY DOUGLAS CUTTING
Sports Editor

Marshall Tyler, Ben Brown, and Jeremiah Parvin hammered out two hits apiece for the Wildcats, and Stewart Sloan drove in a pair of runs with a solid fifth-inning single up the middle. However, the rallies came too little too late as a strong UNC Charlotte team handed the Wildcats their fourth loss of the season, 11-5. Davidson (2-4) fell back early as UNCC (6-1) knocked in five runs on five hits in the third inning. In the bottom of the third, the Wildcats battled back thanks to a UNCC shortstop error, a passed ball, and singles by Ben Brown and Luke Goodwin. In the fourth, Gerald Parr and James Matan added to the lead with solo homers sandwiching a pretty Wildcat double play.

Again, in the bottom of the fifth, Davidson found their bats and chipped away at the 10-2 UNCC lead. After Tyler sliced a two-out single to center, advancing the speedy Goodwin to second, Parvin stepped up and ripped a double down the left field line that just bounced fair. Sloan then took the first pitch to center, scoring Tyler and Parvin. Dom Talvacchio’s subsequent drive to right field had the crowd and dugout on their feet, but it fell just short, ending the rally. Talvacchio later commented that he “just didn’t quite get all of it.”

Jamie McDonald took the loss after pitching three-plus innings and giving up seven earned runs on nine hits. Fritz Porter pitched four-plus innings allowing three runs on four hits, and Mike DeSimone pitched the last two innings with one earned run. Jason Stanford was the winning pitcher for the Forty-niners giving up one earned run on three hits.

Ebong’s dunk, win over Appalachian leads to favorable tourney set-up

With 12:17 left in Thursday night’s clash of Southern Conference titans, Appalachian St. — along with its horde of fans who made the trek from Boone — was making some noise. A 9-1 Mountaineer spurt had halved what was just three minutes earlier a 16-point Davidson lead. And that’s when Ben

On Men’s Basketball
MICHAEL J. KRUSE a.k.a. Doctor

Ebong took matters into his own hands. Up-faking his man into oblivion at the top of the key, Ebong — Davidson’s version of Carolina skywalker Vince Carter — drove down the lane and threw down a vicious windmill jam. “My adrenaline was pumping and I just took it strong to the hole,” Ebong said. “You always want to finish it as best you can, and I did that.” Mountaineers be gone.

“That’s Ben,” coach Bob McKillop said after his team’s 10-point win. “Ben has the charisma and the enthusiasm and the energy to excite people.”

Charlotte Observer sports columnist, who after wolfing down a Davidson-funded — and, I might add, rather pricey — preseason media dinner in early October decided to watch the Wildcats for the first time in late February, turned to yours truly and noted, “Some baskets are worth more than two points.” Indeed, Mr. Sorensen. And some wins are worth more than a single notch in the standings, Thursday’s being a perfect example.

Davidson’s season sweep of the Mountaineers, coupled with its win over Georgia Southern on Saturday, gives the Wildcats the top seed in the league tournament this weekend at Greensboro Coliseum. So what’s the difference between the first and second seeds? Lots. As the league’s No. 1 squad, the Wildcats will face the winner of a play-in game between the fourth seed in the South Division and the fifth seed in the North — Georgia Southern and East Tennessee St., respectively. Davidson beat ETSU by 13 points Jan. 19 in Johnson City, Tenn., and by 20 Feb. 9 at Belk Arena. Saturday’s margin over Georgia Southern was 17.

Appalachian, as the second seed in the North, will face the South’s No. 3 seed — Furman — at 9:30 Friday night. The Paladins, although they threw a legitimate scare into the Mountaineers Feb. 7 in Greenville, S.C., before finally succumbing 63-62, will likely bow out to Appalachian. But, assuming the Mountaineers do get by Furman in the nightcap Friday, they will have to take the court for their semifinal Saturday afternoon some 14 hours later — barely enough time to get a good night’s sleep, let alone prepare for an anticipated bout with South Division titleist and defending conference champion Chattanooga. And there’s only so much adrenaline can do.

Women’s tennis wins one, loses one
BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

The two women’s tennis matches this weekend were both overwhelming victories. Unfortunately, only one of them was for Davidson. The victory came on Saturday against an East Carolina team that was clearly no match for the ‘Cats. The final score of the match was 8-1, with the only loss coming at the #4 singles spot in an extremely long and close match that ended 5-7, 6-2, 6-4 in favor of East Carolina. All of the other Wildcat singles players won their matches in straight sets. Dana Casner, playing at #1, won her match 6-3, 6-2. Rookie Kristin Koenig improved her season record to 3-1 with a 6-1, 6-2 victory at the #2 spot. Casner and Koenig played together at the #1 doubles spot and won 8-5. Amber Bradford and Claire Cheatwood won at #2, 8-2. The #3 doubles spot consisted of seniors Lynne Shore and Clara Marks, who won 8-6. The win brought the team’s record for the season to 1-3, but the momentum of such a strongThe win was still not enough in the team’s Sunday match against Atlantic 10 power Virginia Tech. The Wildcats came up empty against the Hokies, despite several extremely close matches. Casner again played the #1 spot. After losing the first set, Casner dominated the second set and won it 6-1. Unfortunately, she could not hold on and lost the third set 6-3. Playing at #5, Claire Cheatwood played one of the most intense matches of the day. Cheatwood lost the first set 6-1, then won the second 7-6. The third set was another long one and ended 7-5 in favor of Virginia Tech. After a grueling three-hour match, the Virginia Tech opponent had come away with a narrow win. Lynne Shore, playing #6 singles, took her opponent to three very long sets. She won the first set 7-6, but then lost the next two 7-6, 7-3. In doubles competition, Bradford and Cheatwood had the closest match, which they lost 9-7. The loss brought the women to 1-4 on the season.

Davidson Men’s tennis squad topples ACC power NC State

BY ANDREW FULFORD
Staff Writer

With a huge crowd on hand, the Davidson men’s tennis team came to prove something Saturday afternoon against ACC power NC State. The Wolfpack, ranked 8th in the region, came into the day’s match with a quiet confidence.

Men beat App. St.

App. State, from page 16

Kosmalski and six apiece from Chadd Holmes, Ali Ton, and Ebong, the Wildcats outrebounded the Mountaineers 45-28. Seventeen of those boards for Davidson came on the offensive end. “That’s been the difference in every game,” Donnelly said of the Wildcats’ recent winning streak, which stood at eight following Thursday’s victory. “Our big guys have done a great job. Chadd, Landry, Ben, and Stephen, on any given night, two or three of those guys will put up big numbers.” Against the Mountaineers, Ebong tallied 11 points, Marshall 10, Holmes eight, and Kosmalski seven. Davor Halbauer, who picked his spots to nail crucial threes, finished with a team-high 13. “Our guys were very, very ready to play,” McKillop explained. “They were extremely focused, I’ve sensed that since the Greensboro victory (Feb. 7) at Greensboro. I think our guys have turned the corner.” Guards Tyson Patterson and Tige Darner paced Appalachian, scoring 15 and 14 points, respectively.

Women’s hoops wins on Senior Day, senior class sets new record for success

Hoops, from page 16

The final regular season game also marked the final home game for the seniors. Undoubtedly, this was an extremely special season for the seniors; they make up the winningest group of players in Davidson’s history with a total of fifty wins over four years. More importantly, they represent the experience and leadership which allowed Davidson to have its most successful season ever, beating every team in the conference at least once. As Freshman center Kim Taylor pointed out, “This was such an emotional day for the seniors, we could not have done it without them, we owe everything to them.” The Wildcats ended up winning the game itself by a comfortable 74-63 margin. Sophomore Jen O’Brien scored an amazing 26 points to complement her 5 steals and 2 assists. Junior Kerry Brown and Sophomore Katy Kamp each had 12 points, and 11 and 7 rebounds respectively. Finally, Senior Jennie Vanlerberghe had an outstanding day to finish out her final home game. Vanlerberghe contributed 11 points, 3 rebounds, and 2 blocks. Davidson finished the regular season tied for second place in the Southern Conference with UNC Greensboro, with each team having a 12-4 record. Georgia Southern ended up in first place with a slightly better 13-3 record. Looking ahead to the postseason, Davidson will now advance to the Southern Conference Tournament in Greensboro, NC. The third-seeded Wildcats’ first opponent will be sixth seed Appalachian State on Saturday, February 27 at 8:30 PM. Although the Wildcats easily handled App. State on Saturday, they will most likely encounter a tough team looking to avenge their loss. Should Davidson advance, they will play the winner of the UNCG-Western Carolina match-up. That semifinal game is scheduled for February 28. Ultimately, the Lady Wildcats hope to win the conference championships and advance to the NCAA tournament.

in their abilities. It would not be easy; the Cats were ready to make their case as a top team in the region. The possibility for upset came early when the Cats took two of three doubles matches to get the doubles point. Judson Sutherland and Ted Kaplan came up big with the #1 seed match and won 8-5. John Pastel and Scott Briggs made it look easy in the #2 seed with an 8-3 victory. Jeff Tonidandel and Ty Epp kept it close at the attempted sweep of State’s doubles, but lost a close one 5-8. That doubles point proved crucial in the upset as the Cats ended up splitting the singles matches. Pastel once again proved dominant in the #1 spot with a straight sets victory 6-1, 6-3. Seeds 2, 5, and 6 were dropped to the Wolfpack, but Jeff Tonidandel and Alex Okulski, #3 and #4 respectively, proved too much for State. Tonidandel had a tremendous performance and was able to pull out a tight three-set tiebreaker victory, 6-4, 7-6, 10-8. Okulski started out with a tough match, winning the first set 7-6, but then turned on the juice to overpower his opponent 6-0 in the second set. Saturday’s match was the first win for the Wildcats against an ACC team since 1992, and it might just be the springboard of confidence the team needs to dominate the Southern Conference this year. The Wildcats have a big home match coming up this Friday against East Carolina at 7:30.