an rhe Davidsonian: yes, Kathy, “Let’s Get Real.” In “apologizing” for your blatantly sexist remark — “All men are potential rapists” — you speak to the “undoubtedly many offended males.” Well, you can include me — a woman — on your list of those insulted. I wholeheartedly agree that “women are often dangerously oblivious to the risks that they take” and that fear can be an effective deterrent from putting oneself in a dangerous position. I agree that women should learn to defend themselves against possible attacks, that rape is a heinous crime, and that rapists deserve the worst of punishment. Yet here is where you begin to lose me: you (and many others) say that “the goal and purposeful intent [is] to increase women’s awareness of risk” and then turn away a reporter?!? What better way to inform college students about a program or issue than through the campus newspaper? But to steal your words, “That’s all beside the point.” The point is that you are making a generalization which unfairly groups all men under a perverse category regardless of the individual or even the majority, in this case. I believe there is a term for that — stereotyping. Whatever happened to “innocent until proven guilty”? How can you point a finger where no crime has been committed? Because other women have suffocated or drowned their children, does that mean I’m a potential murderer? Because other women have performed incantations and sacrifices, does that mean I’m a potential witch? So maybe you protected yourself by injecting the word “potential,” but you discredited yourself without attaching a label to such a broad group (i.e., an entire sex). That most rapists are men does not mean that most men are rapists. Let’s re-examine your catch-word “potential.” Are you saying every man possesses the physical qualities to be the overpowering rapist, or do you mean every man harbors the perverse mentality necessary to commit such a wicked violation, or both? A distinction seems crucial. What if the man epitomizes the former but lacks the latter? Could we then logically and justly say that all football players and bodybuilders have more potential to become rapists? Clearly not, and to suggest so is as absurd as saying, well, that “all men are potential rapists.” Like Randy said in his article, spouting that “all men are potential rapists” and other “slanderous generalities... in no way aids anyone.” With this insidious remark, you change the issue from one of rape to one of chauvinism. Instead of promoting awareness to all people (or you might coin the term “all potential victims”), you drive a wedge in the already existing gap between men and women; you make it an issue of “us” against “them.” But it’s not. As a speaker at Take Back the Night said, “Rape is about social values. It is not a women’s issue.” If we want to combat rape we — both women and men — have to work together. We have to mend the rift rather than widen it. Besides, we can’t ignore the fact that men are raped, too. If, as stated at Take Back the Night, the number of men victim to this perversion is smaller than the number of women, then these males constitute a minority. By excluding this minority from learning about self-defense, then that in itself seems another form of sexism. I thought the students here pleaded for equality, sought to transcend racism and sexism, admired honesty and respect. We at Davidson College are bound by a Code of Responsibility, a code of ethics, a Code of Honor. Stereotyping is not responsible; it is not ethical; and it is certainly not honorable. The fact that we even have to discuss it is abominable. I’m reminded of a quote I once read: “It isn’t that they can’t see the solution. It is that they can’t see the problem.” We have so muddied the issue with extraneous tirades that we’ve lost sight of which battle we are trying to fight. To be more effective in combat, our energy needs to be concentrated against the real enemy. The problem, the enemy, is rape. Let’s stop adding on to the problem so that we might become a part of the solution.

Women’s issues addressed year-round

Problems with Ogden’s argument

From reading Sarah Ogden’s editorial in last week’s Davidsonian, one might get the impression that women’s issues are only addressed here at Davidson during the month of March. This is simply wrong, and I am sorry that such misperceptions exist. I am not the Chair of the Women’s Month Committee. I am the Chair of the Women’s Issues Committee, and women’s issues are not seasonal, as Ms. Ogden was so quick to point out. My committee’s responsibility to plan events around topics related to women and gender does not end at the stroke of midnight on Mar. 31. Remember Katie Koestner’s talk and workshops last fall? We co-sponsored that event, and it took place in September. Last fall we also had an active book discussion group; we co-sponsored the poet Joy Harjo; and we held a faculty/student reception. Besides, March is National Women’s Month, not a creation of the Women’s Issues Committee designed solely to boost attendance at our events. We from until next March rolls around.” Not if we can help it, and not if the Women’s Month events truly affect participants. And by all indications, people have been affected. Throughout the month, people have asked how they can be involved in organizations like the Women’s Issues Committee and the Rape Awareness Committee. By celebratingthe RAD course and the Women’s Sexual Esteem Workshop, every one of our events has been open to males, females, transgendered persons, you name it. That these events are open to everyone cannot be stressed enough. Moreover, the Women’s Issues Committee itself is open to anyone, as the men on the committee will testify. Any man who has a girlfriend, a sister, or even a mother should feel concerned about “women’s issues.” It disturbs me that such misperceptions about the committee exist. We will be the first ones to tell you that our mission is not limited to one month out of the year, nor is our method to program all of our events during the month of March. We invite men and women to join us in the year-round project of raising awareness and fighting sexism.

I hardly think that the Women’s Issues Committee presents “limited-time offer” events. According to Ms. Ogden, when March is over “students will reabsorb themselves in their daily routines, and we will be right back where we started.” By celebrating Women’s Month and by planning events year-round, we hope to permanently change sexist mindsets. As for Ms. Ogden’s concern about male attendance at Women’s Month events, I agree that something needs to be done. With the exception of the RAD course and the Women’s Sexual Esteem Workshop, every one of our events has been open to males, females, transgendered persons, you name it. That these events are open to everyone cannot be stressed enough. Moreover, the Women’s Issues Committee itself is open to anyone, as the men on the committee will testify. Any man who has a girlfriend, a sister, or even a mother should feel concerned about “women’s issues.” It disturbs me that such misperceptions about the committee exist. We will be the first ones to tell you that our mission is not limited to one month out of the year, nor is our method to program all of our events during the month of March. We invite men and women to join us in the year-round project of raising awareness and fighting sexism.

I’m going to be blunt — I don’t like the food at the Commons. When I was a junior in high school looking at the finest colleges and universities our country had to offer, tours were key to my impression of each school. What I didn’t realize, however, was that every one of those tours was identical. By the end of my college crusade, I was capable of tour guiding at any school. At each, I learned that students had close interactions with the faculty, more than half the student body participated in varsity or intramural sports, and that at least 70 percent of the students were on some sort of financial aid. Finally, every school claimed that their food was appetizing. After seven months at Davidson, I definitely miss home cooking.

Now, don’t get me wrong; the Commons offers a wide selection of cuisine. Two hot entrees, fresh rolls, a sandwich bar, a pizza bar, a salad bar, frozen yogurt, and ice cream — the list appears to be endless! But let’s take a trip through old Vail. After I pick up my tray and silverware, I usually cannot identify the entrees. Was I just served ravioli or shepherd’s pie? And don’t you hate it when either both the entrees are your favorites or both are untouchable? At the sandwich bar, I never get the exact sandwich I requested. “No, I didn’t ask for chicken salad with lettuce and tomato on a bagel... I asked for turkey and American on white.” (They kind of sound the same.) Try a pizza and it either is burnt or the dough is uncooked. At the salad bar, the lettuce is brown and the fruit is unripe. The desserts redeem the meal, but I can never find any Cookies-n-Cream ice cream.

But don’t give up hope. There is a solution. If you want to leave the Commons full, you must be creative. Here are some of the solutions my friends and I have come up with to keep Vail Commons a satisfying part of the day: First, for entrees, be bold with your choice. Chances are, if you’ve never heard of it, it must be better than if you have never tried it. But don’t be fooled by international labels and various names for the vegetable blends; they’re nothing special. Second, you can always count on the French fries. Another hint: Don’t ask any questions about the food. This only adds confusion — the cafeteria workers are just as clueless as you are.

For condiments, make sure you collect a handful of Saltine crackers. These will be used later to challenge friends to eating six of them in under a minute without anything to drink. (Trust me, it’s impossible.) Then take advantage of the new spice rack. Just close your eyes, pick a random bottle, and pour generously. Hey, it can’t make your meal any worse. Now, on your way to the salad bar. The key here is to use a separate plate to make the most immense collection of vegetables you can imagine. Stay clear from anything that appears to be more than a week old. An effective Big Salad will make people’s jaws drop and utter a mere “wow.”

Put down your plate and sprint to the pizza bar. You probably won’t make it through your entree and the dressing on the salad will upset your stomach, so you should use a pizza as a backup plan. Originality is most important here. Don’t go for the cheese, sauce, and one- or two-topping pizza. Try one without cheese or sauce but with only pesto; or the cheese, broccoli, and olives. Also, feel free to customize your order by adding, “Please cook twice.” After all this hard work to satisfy your hunger, you must be rewarded with dessert. Most of the Commons’s desserts are quite tasty, but when feeling inspired, here are two alternatives: If you don’t mind another trek to the pizza bar, order another pizza with nothing on it. Take the cooked dough back to your table and load it with butter, honey, and cinnamon (if you can find it). Tah-dah, the sopapilla. If you want a cold dessert, make a milkshake. Fill your glass three-quarters with your favorite ice cream and then top it off with two-percent milk. Stir well and enjoy. Warning: Do not use frozen yogurt. The milk freezes into ice chips. (Thanks to Amelia Fuller for this advice.)

Don’t be tempted into thinking that meals at the Commons are a time to unwind and relax with friends. These prove to be the most important times of the day to have your creative juices flowing and your thinking caps on. If not, then you will fall into the dark and bottomless pit of eating at the Outpost and ordering from Papa John’s every night. And soon you will be broke.