THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Laura McCandlish
Staff Writer

Starting last year, an Asian Studies Concentration was established at Davidson to give credit to students who have demonstrated intensive interest in the study of Asia. Each student involved in the program is given an advisor, who helps them to design a course of study in line with the student’s particular interest in one of three areas: East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East.

Last year, the advisor to the program was Sociology Professor, Dr. Larry Sabaratnam, who is currently on leave for the year. This year, Political Science Professor, Dr. Shelley Rigger is serving as the concentration’s faculty advisor. The requirements for the concentration include one introductory course, either East Asian Studies, or an introductory level Asian history class. Students must also take five additional courses on their region in Asia, from a variety of different departments such as Art History, Religion, Political Science, History, or English. Completing the study of an Asian language and having a significant experience abroad in Asia are also requirements for this concentration. Rigger said, “We would like to see students start thinking about the concentration early in their sophomore year so we can help them plan their track of courses.”

The Asian Studies concentration was basically conceived by Dr. Rigger and Religion Professor, Dr. Mark Csikszentmihalyi, with the support of other professors with an interest in Asian Studies. Csikszentmihalyi said that he and Rigger involved themselves in starting the concentration because they are both “pretty well-versed in many aspects of Asian culture.” Rigger feels the program “gives students interested in Asia the chance to receive recognition for courses and study abroad experiences that they would complete anyway.”

“The legacy of American education,” Csikszentmihalyi said, “is to focus on Atlantic rather than Pacific cultures. Until the study of Asian culture is better integrated into school’s curriculums, it is necessary to design interdisciplinary concentrations.” Students may also design a major in Asian Studies through the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies.

Other faculty members that teach courses that currently fall under Asian Studies are Religion Professor Dr. William Mahony, English Professor Dr. Gill Holland who teaches Introduction to East Asian Studies and a class in Chinese literature, Music Professor Dr. Jennifer Stasack, Philosophy Professor Dr. Lance Stell, and Political Science Professor Dr. Kenneth Menkhaus. Students can take history courses pertaining to their track of study, such as Middle Eastern history classes from Dr. Jonathan Berkey, who is helping to plan a Davidson summer study abroad program in Yemen. Dr. Job Thomas also teaches Asian studies courses but is currently abroad this semester with the Davidson in India Program in Madras. To meet their language requirement, students can take Chinese language classes from Dr. Vivian Shen, in addition to Hindi and Arabic, which are offered as self-instructional languages. Junior Prashant Kaishap, a native speaker from Bombay, India, teaches self-instructional Hindi at Davidson.

Sophomore Meredith Beattie hopes to complete an East Asian Studies Concentration. She said, “I have always had a fascination and curiosity with East Asia, and now Davidson allows me to investigate this incredibly rich and complex culture that is an endless source of inspiration for me.” Beattie plans to be a cultural anthropology major and to study abroad in China next year. 

Senior Cintra Pollack also plans to apply for an East Asian Studies Concentration, because after studying abroad in China last semester with a Wake Forest program in Beijing, she has completed all the Asian Studies requirements. She said, “Asian Studies is like a conversation with the Humanities program. Instead of seeing the world through the Western male you learn to see it through the Asian perspective. It has expanded my world view.” Cintra is an English major who plans to go into Comparative Literature, so she said, “I will use all this further in life. I plan to go back to Asia.”

Students more interested in learning about the Asian Studies Concentration should come to an information session at 4:00 in the Union Conference Room on Wednesday, November 4th.

Competitive Research Assistantships and Health Insurance for Every Graduate Student

For more information, call Jan McCormick (919) 966-3935 or email milg@med.unc.edu. Find us on the web at www.med.unc.edu/physiolo/

It's all about making an impact.

Thinking 3 years down the road? Good, we already have something in common.

Sign-ups for Qualification Interviews open now thru Thursday, November 5, at Davidson Career Services. Qualification Interviews will be held, Monday, November 9.

If you're constantly thinking about the future, here's a chance to actually do something about it. Come be a part of a leading global management and technology consulting organization—Andersen Consulting.

Together, we'll help world-class clients prepare for new challenges by delivering profound change. We'll help unlock their potential for success by aligning strategy with people, processes and technology—an approach that allows you to make an impact from the ground up.

You'll receive first-rate training and guidance, and exposure to a variety of projects and industries. All of which builds a solid foundation for the years ahead.

Our business is shaping the future. So why not come talk to us about how, together, we can help shape yours.

Visit our Web site at www.ac.com

©1998 Andersen Consulting, All rights reserved. An equal opportunity employer.