By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

It took a playing stint in France’s top pro basketball league, a solid showing at the Toronto Raptors’ preseason camp, and a productive campaign this year with the CBA’s LaCrosse (Wis.) Bobcats, but former Davidson standout Brandon Williams, a.k.a. Ozone, is now in the NBA. Williams, a 6-foot-6 college-forward-turned-pro-shooting-guard, signed a 10-day contract with the Golden State Warriors last Tuesday after the organization placed Brian Shaw on injured reserve with a strained groin.

According to Davidson coach Bob McKillop, Golden State head man P.J. Carlesimo was informed that Williams was the best two-guard in the CBA. For Ozone, who will earn $15,900 for his 10 days of service, what a difference a week made. On Feb. 6, he faced the Sioux Falls (S.D.) Skyforce as a member of the Bobcats. Five days later, he was posting a slew of NBA firsts against Shaquille O’Neal, Kobe Bryant, Eddie Jones, and the Los Angeles Lakers, having already become Golden State’s sixth man.

After a scoreless, 21-minute debut against the Washington Wizards Feb. 10, Williams recorded his first NBA point, dunk, and three-pointer the next night at the Great Western Forum in Inglewood, Calif. His first NBA bucket came on a jumper 14 seconds into the second quarter, first jam 4:51 before intermission, and first three with 27 seconds remaining in the contest. Overall against the Lakers, Williams finished with nine points on 4-for-13 shooting, three rebounds, and one steal in a bench-high 31 minutes.

He continued a pattern of game-by-game improvement Friday night in a home date against Mitch Richmond and the Sacramento Kings, notching 10 points on 5-for-10 marksmanship. Williams recorded another pair of firsts yesterday against the Celtics — a win and a start in an NBA uniform, as the Warriors knocked off Boston Sunday at home, 101-87. Ozone, starting in the Golden State backcourt with former Kentucky star Tony Delk, logged 11 points on 5-for-9 shooting, four rebounds, and two steals. Two straight jumpers by Williams early in the fourth quarter gave the Warriors a comfortable 15-point lead they would never relinquish. He scored at least once in all four quarters — another, albeit more obscure, NBA first for Ozone.

The Warriors, still a disheartening 9-40 even after the win over the Celtics, play at Portland tomorrow and return home to face Charlotte Wednesday. If Williams signs a second 10-day contract, he will play in games against Denver and Miami on Feb. 20 and 22, respectively, before hitting the road for contests at New York Feb. 24, Washington Feb. 26, and Boston Feb. 27. The chances of a second go-around? “I think they’ll give him two, but that’s just a guess,” McKillop said Saturday night. “Judging from the minutes, I'd say yes.” After a potential second 10-day contract ends, the club must either release Williams or sign him for the duration of the season. If he is still with Golden State at that point, he would visit Charlotte March 2 when the Warriors meet the Hornets.

Ozone averaged 18.2 points a game his senior season at Davidson, leading the Wildcats to a 25-5 record and an NIT berth. He is the school’s ninth all-time leading scorer with 1,505 career points.

Hall inducts four new members

Pat Crawford, Harold Westervelt, Elizabeth Ann Tanner, and Ray Sinclair were all inducted into the Davidson Athletic Hall of Fame in a ceremony at halftime of the Wildcats’ win Saturday night over UNC Greensboro.

After a standout baseball career at Davidson in the early 1920s, Crawford played in the major leagues with the New York Giants, Cincinnati Reds, and the St. Louis Cardinals, compiling a lifetime .280 average. He won a World Series ring as a utility player for the Cardinals’ famed “Gas House Gang” in 1934. His first big league hit was a grand slam against the Boston Braves in 1929.

Westervelt, Class of 1959, is the most decorated wrestler in school history, having earned three consecutive Southern Conference championships from 1957-59. He also lettered in football from 1956 to 1958, the last time Davidson posted three straight winning seasons on the gridiron.

The 1978 recipient of the Rebecca Stimson Award for her achievements on the women’s basketball and field hockey teams, Tanner graduated as the all-time leading scorer in Wildcat female hoops history.

A 1982 graduate, Sinclair still holds 13 Wildcat rushing records and remains the only Davidson football player to have rushed for over 3,000 career yards. His 260-yard performance against Catawba in 1981 represents the highest single-game total in school history. As a senior, Sinclair was named honorable mention All-American by the Sporting News. He signed as a free agent with the NFL’s Seattle Seahawks following his graduation.

Solid down the stretch — The Wildcats’ victory Saturday night over UNC Greensboro was their 20th straight in a February Southern Conference game. Going into last night’s game against VMI in Lexington, Va., the program’s last such loss came at Marshall in February of 1995 ... After taking a nasty spill early in the team’s win last Monday against East Tennessee St. and not returning the rest of the evening due to a deep thigh bruise, guard Davor Halbauer was back in the starting five for Saturday’s game.

Men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams take first place again at the Southern States Championships

Swimming from page 12

3:39.18) for fourth place in the relay and a new team record, 3:36.88. Evansville (643.50 total points) won the relay and vaulted into second place, but it wasn’t enough to catch the Wildcats (649 total points).

“The way we performed Friday morning gave us the edge,” Paffenroth said. “It set us up for Friday night, and the momentum continued on into Saturday morning and Saturday night. It was almost a completely different...Feeling from last year. It was a new group, with six freshmen, and with Southern States approaching, I was so excited that we had a chance to win, and I could share that feeling with the six new girls.”

The men’s domination of the final two individual races was nearly unbelievable. Matt Lake jumped out to a big lead in the 200 breast, and then cruised in for the win (2:04.96), but the amazing part was that his closest competitors were teammates Matt West (2nd, 2:06.65) and Kurt Hirsekorn (3rd, 2:06.70). “That got me so energized,” Terry Dolch said of his teammates' 1-2-3 finish.

Not to be outdone by the medal sweep in the breaststroke, Scott Harper (1:54.37), Sam Kuykendall (1:54.72), Mark Medendorp (1:57.47), Brendan Willman (1:58.76), and Rob Saldin (1:58.98) dominated the fly, claiming first, second, seventh, 10th, and 11th, with Harper and Kuykendall coming from a full second behind Georgia Southern’s Sebastian Muniz (3rd, 1:54.99) in the final 100 yards. “After the breast, I knew I wasn’t going to let anybody but a Davidson person win the event,” Harper said. “They (the breaststrokers) stepped up and did what was needed for us to overcome the deficit, and I wanted to do the same.”

These two events ballooned the men’s lead to well over 40 points (the total awarded for a relay win), ensuring that they would repeat as Southern States champions. “(Winning again) was great,” Harper said. “Last season, both for the team and for me, everything went a lot smoother. This year I had some meets that I wasn’t pleased with. The team lost Keith (Nelson), and (Jason) Prince, and a couple divers, but we overcame all the potential downfalls. I thought that was cool.”

Dave Maddux, Bill Paterson, Mike McCabe, and Freddy Schnell finished off the meet with fifth in the 400 relay (3:10.81), making the final margin of victory 41.50 points over the Eagles. The Wildcats placed four women and seven men on the All-Southern States team. Brosche, Paffenroth, Suzi Bozzone, and Karen Fritchie were named to the women’s squad, while Lake, Harper, Dolch, West, Kurt Hirsekorn, Kuykendall, and Schnell made the men’s team. It was also the final home meet for four seniors: Dave Maddux, Schnell, Beebe, and George.

“It’s sad that I won’t be a part of the team anymore,” Beebe said. “I was crying my whole last lap just because I knew it was my last lap. I don’t think there will ever be anything else like it, that kind of bond with forty other people.”

Women set records in impressive win
By ALISON KALETT
Staff Writer

Last Tuesday, the Davidson Women’s Basketball team gave the home fans something to cheer about as they thoroughly defeated Western Carolina by a score of 83-58. The Wildcats played a solid game from the outset, leading to a commanding 40-29 halftime margin.

The story of the game was senior Jennie Vanlerberghe, who in 25 minutes scored an outstanding 18 points on nine of 15 shooting. Vanlerberghe’s performance put her in the record books as Davidson’s fifth leading scorer ever with 797 points. Also having outstanding offensive games for the Lady Wildcats were sophomore point guard Jennifer O’Brien and junior center Jessica Montrella, who contributed 13 and 11 points, respectively. Montrella’s contribution placed her eighth on Davidson’s all-time scoring list while O’Brien had her second double-double of the season.

Defensively, Katy Kamp had a solid game, pulling down 11 defensive rebounds. Other standouts for Davidson included freshman Jenny Joslin with six points; sophomore Meagan Gleason with seven points; and senior Danielle Mall, who had five points to add to her three steals. Overall, the Wildcats had an excellent team performance, with nearly all players contributing. With the exception of one Western Carolina player, the Wildcats also managed to hold all of their opponents to single-digit scoring.

In addition, DeSelm wanted to acknowledge the efforts of the coaching staff: Sam Jalet, Ted Hautau, Jill Dillner, Ken Vogt, and Todd Rhen.

The rivalry between the Wildcats and Georgia Southern turned sour during the break between the 200 fly and 400 free relay. The Howard team was leading the other squads in a final cheer, when the Georgia Southern team turned towards the Wildcats and booed. “They’re a bunch of punks, and we showed them what’s up,” Rosenquest said about the incident. “We outclassed them in the pool and outside of it.”

But, not even a little booing could spoil the Wildcats’ evening. When the team scores had been announced and all the trophies awarded, mayhem ensued. Parents gave a bootie call from the stands, coaches were thrown in the water, team members clad in anything from Speedos to jeans joined the watery celebration, and superfan Charlie McLaughlin made his celebratory dive from the 3-meter board. In the end, for the swimming and diving teams, it was business as usual.

SEMESTER ABROAD IN COSTA RICA

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke University are accepting applications for the Fall 1998 semester for a field-oriented, science-based semester abroad program in Costa Rica. Students earn 16 credit hours in tropical ecology, environmental science and policy, field research methods, and Spanish language and culture. Credits may be transferred from Duke University.

- Hands-on experiential learning
- Independent field projects
- Cultural immersion
- Extended stays at remote field sites
- Home stays
- Extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application:
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Tel.: (919) 684-5774; Email: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>
http://www.ots.duke.edu

Application deadline for 1998 Fall semester is March 20, 1998.

A consortium of universities providing leadership in education, research, and the responsible use of natural resources in the tropics.

MIAMI ONLY $79 ONE WAY.
Mexico/CARIBBEAN OR SAN JUAN ONLY $99 ONE WAY.
Europe ONLY $179 ONE WAY.
OTHER WORLD-WIDE DESTINATIONS CHEAP
ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER

Air Tech Limited - (800)-575-TECH
www.AirTech.com