By Ashley King
Staff Writer

International students have been coming to Davidson College for approximately 50 years, since around 1948. Despite the changing times, the
idea behind bringing them to Davidson has remained the same — the sharing of different cultures, ideas, and attitudes. Including
internationals, students with dual citizenship, Americans living abroad, and permanent residents who are not U.S. citizens, this year’s international students
are a unique group of 101 individuals who bring many views about what it is like to be an international
student on campus and about what their role is while they are here.

Ruth Pittard, the former international student advisor, worked with the students in the international community for years, and thus she
has witnessed the evolution of both the programs open to international students and of the students themselves. “Even the form
has changed,” Pittard said, “the original program for international students lasted one year. The switch went to four years while
I was here. It went from students who visited to students who lived on campus.” Pittard also noticed that there
have been changes in the demographics of the international student population as well. “Early trends were towards Europe,” she explained.
“Now, it is much more balanced.” Of the international students at Davidson today, there are individuals from areas such as
Croatia, Ecuador, Malaysia, and Kenya. In all, Davidson is home to students from 43 nations across the world.

Beginning her first year as Davidson’s international student advisor, Sherri Spillman has an intimate knowledge of the current international students
at Davidson College. Spillman felt that one obstacle for the international students is culture shock. When asked how the international
students attending Davidson are handling this problem, Spillman responded, “I don’t know if I would say the adjustment is easy
because it’s a huge adjustment. Some students adjust better than others. Some have lived all over the world and are
used to culture shock while others have access to other cultures. It is still difficult even for these people. The
food is different, the slang people use is different, and even the sense of humor is different.”

The students themselves offered different opinions about Davidson College, this new culture into which they were thrown, and the function
of international students on campus. Chris Pearson, a freshman basketball player from England, found out about Davidson through his basketball
coach in England. Not feeling too affected by his recent switch from his culture at home to the one here,
Pearson said, “There are certain differences, but I feel the difference is more Davidson than America.”

Hearing about Davidson College through her mother who is a North Carolina native, Dalia Abu-Dayyeh offered a different perspective than
the one presented by Pearson. Although she is legally a U.S. citizen, Abu-Dayyeh’s father is Palestinian, and she has spent
most of her life in Palestine. Talking to her, students can hear stories such as her being stopped on the
highway next to a man who was riding a camel. After a rough start, Abu-Dayyeh has managed to grow accustomed
to her environment in her second year at Davidson, although she still misses some elements of home. Describing her arrival
in the U.S., she said, “I thought I was American enough. I thought, ‘I can handle this.’” Soon, however, she
began to experience feelings of separation from the campus. “You start to feel almost lonely,” she said. She went on
to say, “Of course we miss our food. We miss our language, and we run into a lot of uninformed
people.” Abu-Dayyeh said that now, more than ever, she feels more confident and involved in the life of the school.

The President of the International Student Association (ISA), Marek Blicharz, and secretary of the ISA, Asli Kinoglu, offered the perspective
of seniors who have been directly involved in international organizations on campus. Both Blicharz and Kinoglu feel that the ISA
has been a positive outlet for them to “share the culture shock,” as Blicharz put it. They also felt that
a lack of mobility was one of the hardest obstacles to face in coming to Davidson as an international student.
“The biggest thing was the loss of independence,” Blicharz said. “There is no public transportation. It makes you logged down
to campus.” To that comment, Kinoglu added, “We don’t travel home that much. We can’t get away.” Being very active
in the ISA, Blicharz and Kinoglu were excited about the programs that the organization plans to institute. “We’re part of
an organization that tries to promote international awareness and that tries to bring together internationals and Americans.” Programs such as
the international festival and multicultural events are part of these efforts.Kids Day are just a few of the ways in
which the ISA has tried to accomplish its goals. “The ISA is not an organization meant only for students categorized
by the Admissions Office as international students,” Kinoglu added in closing. “We've all really learned from each other’s experiences. It’s
a wonderful way of learning and a part of the college experience.”

Couple Establishes Economics Professorship

Hanford Hotels, Inc. Press Release

The first Doe Professor of Economics is Peter Hess, interim chair of the department of economics and an educator known
for his capacity to inspire students to achieve beyond the measure of their own expectations. Hess implemented Davidson’s first econometrics
course and received Davidson’s prestigious Omicron Delta Kappa Teaching Award in 1995.

Ernest and Gail Doe have made a $1,000,000 gift to establish the Gail M. and Ernest G. Doe Professorship at
Davidson College. The Doe Professorship recognizes a Davidson economics professor who has consistently displayed excellence in teaching, superior professional achievement,
and exemplifies the moral and intellectual values of the College.

“I want to see the quality of the professors at Davidson remain as high as possible,” said Ernie Doe, whose
admiration for Davidson Professor Charles Ratliff caused him to become an economics major. At Davidson, Doe played varsity football his
freshman year, was an avid weightlifter, and was actively involved in his fraternity, Kappa Sigma. After graduating from Davidson in
1969, Doe obtained a master’s degree in finance from UCLA. He went into banking after a successful career in the
motel development business. Doe is still actively involved in the life of the college through his participation in the Davidson
Alumni Admission Program, as a former president of Davidson’s Los Angeles alumni chapter, and through membership on the Board of
Visitors.

Gail Doe, a former high school English teacher and corporate training manager with Security Pacific Bank, holds degrees from Michigan
State University and UCLA. She shares her husband’s enthusiasm for Davidson, accompanying him to alumni chapter events and on alumni
association trips. The Does currently divide their time between homes in Scottsdale, Arizona, and Newport Coast, California, where Ernie is
director of Hanford Hotels, Inc.

“I want to see the quality of the professors at Davidson remain as high as possible.” --Ernie Doe, in establishing
the Doe Professorship

“During his nearly 20 years at Davidson, Peter has established himself as one of the most demanding and effective teachers
on our faculty,” said Dr. Clark Ross, acting Dean of Faculty. “I consider him one of the finest individuals I
have ever known.” Professor Hess is a 1972 graduate cum laude of Bowdoin College, and earned his Ph.D. in economics
from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1982. He is the co-author of textbooks on introductory economics
and economic development, and he is currently working on a textbook that relates to mathematical economics and quantitative methods.

The Gail M. and Ernest G. Doe Professorship will support a faculty member’s full course load and will provide for
necessary research, equipment, and travel. “Endowments of this nature will permit Davidson to attract and retain the excellent teacher-scholars we
need as the College enters the 21st century,” said Ross.

Dean Rusk to Host Religion Lectures

BY DANIELLE MILES
Staff Writer

Beginning Sunday, September 27, at 7:00 PM in the Chambers Gallery, Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program for International Studies will host
a speakers series entitled Faith and the Affairs of the Nation to explore the relationship between religion and politics worldwide.
Dr. Scott Appleby will open with “Understanding Religious Extremism,” and Reverend Emory Searcy, Jr. will close Wednesday night with “Who
Speaks for God? Reconciling Differences in the Politics of the Church.”

An example of the tedious relationship between government and religion across international borders is US-based Louis Farrakhan’s Nation of Islam
and his expanding appeal to foreign nations including Great Britain, where he has gained about 2000 followers since 1986. In
Britain, the presence of unregistered Muslim schools violates national law that requires all schools to register with the department of
education. Registration not only qualifies the school for federal funding, but it also gives the government the right to access
all records and examine the teaching of the national curriculum. Farrakhan is currently banned from entering Britain because the government
fears his preachings will incite racial hatred. Some people worry that Islam, although sharing numerous fundamental beliefs with Judaism and
Christianity, is earning a bad name due to actions by groups associated with it. For instance, Osama bin Laden is
linked to the African embassy bombings.

For more details about the conference topics and times, stop by the Dean Rusk Bulletin Board on the first floor
of Chambers, or read the brochures posted around campus.

Apply in person at the following location:
South Lake Shopping Center
(Torrance Chapel Rd. in Cornelius)
(704) 896-3199
Equal Opportunity Employer
