Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

KJ James plays to a full 900 Room crowd

By ANSEL SINGER-BARNUM
Blues Correspondent

Maybe it was because people had nothing better to do. Maybe it was because of the numerous flyers publicizing the
event. Maybe it was because a procrastination epidemic had struck. Or maybe it was just because of the simple fact
that the blues had once again graced the grounds of Davidson. Whatever the reason, last Monday night, students came in
droves to the 900 Room where KJ James played the blues to a full house. What they saw was indisputably
one of the year’s most entertaining shows.

A one-man four-piece band, James sang (vocalist), kept time by tapping his foot on a mic (drums), walked a beat
with half the strings on his guitar (bassist), and played rhythm on the other half (guitarist). His voice was the
star of this tight ensemble, capable of both a smooth, passionate tone as well as a gritty, blues growl. The
guitar section was equally agile, whether grinding out a dirty boogie or working a delicate ballad.

James’s style centered around a few fundamental riffs, which, although refreshing at first, quickly became stale with repetition. A diverse
repertoire of songs compensated for this, however, ranging from the classics such as “Good Morning Little School Girl” (which he
dedicated to the ladies), to more original pieces such as “The Breakfast Blues” about an apparently heartbreaking conversation at the
breakfast table (“I’m bacon you to come back, baby.”)

If it is not already apparent, James had as much of a sense of humor as he did a sense
of music. After singing about a rooster who could cock-a-doodle-doo all night long, he chastised his amused audience for reading
too much into an innocent song about farm animals. James brought wit and music to an otherwise gloomy Monday night.
He lifted spirits with his humor and comforted souls with the blues.

A&L Editor’s note: Once upon a time, KJ James, when asked to ‘play some Clapton,’ replied, “Well, son...I’m an old
black man, and you’re asking me to try to sound like a young white man trying to sound like an
old black man...and that’s just too much pretending for me.”

Blues artist KJ James performed a two-hour set in the 900 Room last Monday night.

www.gettysburg.edu

The bard under construction

By MATTHEW MORETZ
Staff Writer

If you’ve happened to wander through the bowels of Johnston Gym on a sunny afternoon, you might have paused to
listen to unusual noises echoing off of the aged tile. You might have heard the scuffling of wrestlers, the counterpoint
of Renaissance music, the ramblings of a fool, or the soft smack of a smooch. If you were unsettled by
these or any other odd sounds, then I do apologize. But we’ve been waiting three years for this.

Who might we be? Well, if you asked one of our more pedestrian upperclassmen, they might have said we were
members of Dr. Lewis’s Performing Shakespeare seminar, a cherished tradition of Davidson College. But if you had asked me, I
would have said that we were 16 flaming-hot grease fires of pure entertainment riding the flagship of the English department
full-sail. If you must ignore my enthusiasm, then realize that something special is brewing.

As I said, it is only once every three years that a class has this sort of opportunity. For the
semester we devote our entire class study to one play and then commit unhealthy masses of time to produce it.
‘Tis no small feat. The piece for this year is the comedy “As You Like It.” The play presents lovers,
fools, tyrants, shepherds, melancholiacs, and goddesses, all in the pastoral setting of the Forest of Arden. Yet if you were
a shallow individual, you would think that we had set out to showcase cross-dressing (you'll...see). But our true purpose is
to recreate an enjoyable and beautiful work of Shakespearean art with the resources of the class and to distribute it
to the consumer at one low price. Our resident fool, Touchstone (some call him Billy Roberts), is not daunted by
the harrowing task that lies before us. I once asked him why he was so calm. His only response was
this: “I haven’t exhausted my repertoire of sexual gestures.” Comfort is found in many places, I suppose. We have less
than a month before our creation is exposed to the light (mark Apr. 17-21 on your calendars!). Much has been
accomplished and spirits are high, but there is a great deal of work remaining to create this new world. We
hope that you enjoy the impending result. Until then, remember that all the world’s a stage.

“Our Town” a success
By MELISSA ANN DE CASTRIQUE
Staff Writer

“Our Town” is the story of George Gibbs and Emily Webb, two childhood friends who eventually fall in love, marry,
and live happy but simple lives until Emily’s death at the age of 26. “Our Town,” however, is really a
message about life. The play shows the audience how the real beauty of life is the journey, and that the
most important things in life are often taken for granted — like simple, daily occurrences we tend not to notice.
This theme was clearly communicated in Davidson’s production of “Our Town,” which ran from Mar. 18-22 in Hodson Hall.

Director Ronnie Higdon combined innovative and conventional interpretations of “Our Town” to create a show that was relevant and meaningful
to today’s audiences, while staying true to Thornton Wilder’s original conception of the play. This production’s unique elements, such as
the dances that took place at the beginning of the first and second acts, helped set the tone of small-town
life and illustrate the passion that existed between George (Nathan Raley) and Emily (Rosalie Esteves). Also, the traditionally male role
of the omniscient Stage Manager was played by Sarah Hankins, who expertly guided the audience through 12 years in the
lives of George and Emily.

In addition to Hankins’ excellent performance, the rest of the cast captured the spirit of their characters, evoking laughter, tears,
and poignant silences from the audience. Esteves and Raley had an understanding of the importance of George and Emily’s evolution
from naive teenagers to responsible adults that shined through in their performances. The rest of the cast developed characters that
were well-formed and dynamic, without being so dynamic that they de-emphasized George and Emily’s relationship.

Benjamin Summers gave a particularly engaging performance as Dr. Gibbs, George’s father. Summers portrayed the dual nature of Dr. Gibbs,
both a stodgy patriarch and a devoted father and husband. The audience found several scenes between Dr. Gibbs and George,
as well as between George and Mr. Webb (Ben Lukey) to be particularly humorous, while George and Emily’s wedding, as
well as Emily’s realization of “what it means to be alive,” were more emotionally involving. Emily’s line, “I just can’t
look at anything hard enough,” in reference to her brief return to the living, was met with silence by the
captivated audience. This scene in particular captured the essence of Wilder’s Pulitzer Prize-winning classic and epitomized the understanding of that
essence that made the production so enjoyable and meaningful to all who saw it last week.

NEIGHBORHOOD THEATRE
511 E. 36TH ST.
CHARLOTTE, NC 28205
704-358-9298

CHESAPEAKE (includes Seldom Scene members)
March 26

DONNA THE BUFFALO
April 4

Tickets: $20 Advance, $25 Door. Call 704-358-9298 to charge by phone. Also available at Ticketmaster. Showtime 8:00 p.m.

PHOTOGRAPHY
COMMERCIAL
INDUSTRIAL
ADVERTISING
CATALOGS
PUBLISHING
AERIAL
BROCHURES
MURALS
PRODUCT
PROMOTIONAL
DISPLAYS
STUDIO ON-SITE

WARREN STUDIO
INSTANT PASSPORT
FOR APPOINTMENTS
CALL 892-7166

WEDDING SUPPLIES
WEDDINGS OF DISTINCTION
