Pe er ekare - THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson vs. Duke 11/14 - Swimming - 12:00
Davidson vs. ECU, GSU 11/17 - Men’s Basketball - 8:00 @ Charlotte Coliseum

Schedule of Athletic Events For 11/11-11/17:
11/12 - Men’s Basketball - 7:30 (Exhibition) Davidson vs. Charlotte Royals

Attention Students/Faculty: All $5.00 Student tickets and $10.00 Faculty tickets for the Duke vs. Davidson game must be purchased at the Davidson Athletic Ticket Office prior to Friday at 12:00 PM. These tickets will no longer be on sale through Davidson College after this time.

Princeton Tigers tame Wildcats
By Setu Davis
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, November 4, the Wildcats Volleyball team met the Tigers of the “Davidson of the North.” The Princeton Tigers came to Belk Arena with a 15-10 record overall, while the Wildcats entered the contest with an 18-8 record. The Wildcats were looking for a win to restore their confidence, as losses in the previous weekend had been minor setbacks in their successful season. No love is lost on either side of a Princeton-Davidson matchup, so the match promised to be an exciting one.

The match lived up to its expectations. The first game opened with both the Wildcats and the Tigers playing well. The game ended in a close 15-12 win for the ‘Cats. The Tigers responded with force in the second game behind some solid play. They were able to combine strong defense with effective offense to take the game 15-5. The punishing second game took its toll on the ‘Cats. Princeton was able to dominate throughout, winning the third game 15-1. The Wildcats now stood on the verge of a loss, down 2 games to 1, having just lost by a considerable margin.

The Wildcats responded to the Tigers’ play. Davidson won the fourth game 15 to 9. With the teams knotted at 2 games apiece, the match turned to the fifth and decisive game. The fifth was the rally game, with the scoring not based upon control of the serve. The rally game was close, but the Tigers eventually emerged victorious 15-13.

Rennick and Dye named to All-Conference Team
By Alison Kalett
Sports Editor

The women’s soccer season came to an end last Tuesday night when the Wildcats fell 1 to 0 to Wofford College in the first round of the Southern Conference Tournament. The game was highly competitive as the two teams battled to a scoreless first half during which time the ‘Cats kept the Wofford goalkeeper busy, forcing her to make five saves. Unfortunately, Wofford was able to break the tie 10 minutes into the second half when Amanda Berman scored the game’s lone goal. Head Coach Kevin Hundley said the game was especially tough due to the large number of Davidson players out with injuries. Players sidelined with injuries included senior Rhina Roberts, junior Kelly Rennick who injured her ankle the Saturday before the game, and junior Kate McKnight who was lost in the second half also due to an ankle injury.

“Of our top fourteen or fifteen players, only 4 played in the game,” Hundley said. “It kept us from attaining our full potential.” Injuries also plagued the ‘Cats throughout the regular season. Hundley pointed out that three players suffered season-ending knee injuries, while freshmen Carolyn Stumpf and Natalie Cox, while having solid seasons, also suffered from a series of injuries such as calf pulls and ankle sprains. Hundley called the injuries unfortunate and said he wished he could have had the whole team throughout the season.

Despite the injury-plagued season, several individuals had outstanding seasons. Junior Kelly Rennick was named to the first-team all-conference. Rennick was third on the team with shots on goal, 23. Hundley said Rennick was especially valuable due to her ability to adapt to a new position. Rennick, who is normally a midfielder, made the switch to defense this season. “She was significant and instrumental in solidifying the defense,” Hundley said. “She prevented a lot of teams from scoring and was key to a lot of our success this year.” Also, junior Ginny Dye was named to the all-conference team.

Princeton came to Davidson with a strong team, and the match was a true contest. Unfortunately, the Wildcats didn’t get the crucial burst of confidence that comes with a win. They did, however, play very well as a team. Eleven players saw action in the match. The individual highlights were impressive. On defense, Brooke Bentley led the team with a proverbial ton’s worth of digs. She had 26 digs while Mara Mordini, Ginny Quis, and JenniferOrtega all had 10 digs or more. Janet Duncan led the team with 8 total blocks. Offensively, Mordini led the team with 12 kills while Gina Lawrence had 10 kills. Quis led the team in kill percentage with a 36% efficiency rating. The ‘Cats hoped to build on these individual performances as they looked toward the weekend’s matches. The loss moved the Wildcats to 18-9 on the season, but did not affect their Southern Conference standing. Hundley called Dye one of the team’s best offensive players and someone they depended on a great deal throughout the season, especially because Dye was one of the few players to remain injury-free for the entire season. Dye led the team in 4 major categories; she had 35 shots on goal, seven goals, three assists, and 17 points. With the loss to Wofford, the ‘Cats finished the season at 7 and 13 overall and 5 and 3 in the Southern Conference. Their record earned them third place in the final conference standings behind second-place Furman and first-place UNC Greensboro. UNCG finished on top of the conference in both the regular season and in the tournament by virtue of their 2-0 defeat of Furman in the tournament final. UNCG will represent the Southern Conference against Vanderbilt in the upcoming NCAA tournament. Looking ahead, the ‘Cats will take some much-needed time off to recover from injuries before beginning to train again in the spring. “We’re gonna look to get ourselves prepared for next year,” Hundley said.

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1998

‘Cats pick up two more wins
By Seth Davis
Staff Writer

Saturday, November 7th was a day of endings and of success for the Wildcat volleyball team. The final home match of their impressive 1998 season set the Wildcats against the Eagles of Georgia Southern. The future holds many more NCAA matches for the majority of this young, explosive team. For senior leaders Janet Duncan and Sarah Covell, this match was their final regular season home game in a Wildcat uniform. More than anything, Saturday was a time to remember two athletes who have contributed a great deal to the volleyball program and the campus community.

The Wildcats entered the match coming off a recent breath of confidence from their win against the College of Charleston on Friday, a conference battle they won 3-0. Junior Gina Lawrence led Davidson with 7 kills and a .429 attack percentage in the rout. Brooke Bentley led all players with 9 digs. The win was important in restoring the Wildcats after several tough matches.

The following day, Georgia Southern came to Belk Arena with a solid 16-13 record. The Wildcats scored early and often. The Eagles fell quickly under the onslaught, losing the first game 15-2. Georgia Southern bounced back in the second game, outscoring the ‘Cats 15-11. Both teams were playing well as the third game began. It was the closest portion of the match, with the Wildcats winning 16-14. The ‘Cats didn’t look back, winning the next game and the match by a score of 15-9.

In her final regular season home match as a Wildcat, Janet Duncan continued the fine style of play she has demonstrated throughout her career. Combining steady leadership with defensive strength and offensive effectiveness, Janet led her team to the win. She had 9 kills, 7 digs, and 7 blocks. Her 7 blocks led the team. As a middle blocker who made the Second Team All-Conference last year, Janet Duncan has been a steady force in Davidson volleyball.

Her senior compatriot this season has been the defensive specialist Sarah Covell. Sarah has been a true leader for the entire season. From her constant enthusiasm to her example of unbroken hustle, Sarah has never let up in her commitment to the team. In her final regular season match, she played a solid game, fulfilling her role as a defensive specialist. Sarah and Janet left an indelible mark on Davidson volleyball. As the team looks forward to the postseason, these two seniors will be called upon one final time. The ‘Cats will wrap up the regular season with matches at Furman and Wofford before heading to App. St. for the Southern Conference Tournament.

Davidson in Washington Summer 1999

An informational meeting for the Davidson in Washington Program will be held on THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12 at 4:00 p.m. in Chambers 228. Students interested in learning more about the program should attend. Applications for the program will be available at the meeting. If you have questions about the program, or are unable to attend the informational meeting, please contact Professor Kazee of the Department of Political Science by phone (ext. 2282) or email.