e% @ Ali Ton, shown during the UTC game, helped to snag a victory for the Wildcats — Anna Judy
over UNCG with a spectacular steal in the final moments of the game. Cats win in OT A trip to
Belk brings a loss to UTC By Michael J. Kruse The Wildcat Report After spending the first half of the
season finding ways to lose, the men’s basketball team is now finding ways to win. The most recent example: Davidson
posted a season low in points, got outrebounded 45-31, and watched scoring leader Mark Donnelly tally a mere four points,
yet managed to claim its fifth victory in six tries on Feb. 4 at Belk Arena, topping defending league champion
Chattanooga 53-52 in overtime. “Trials either develop you or destroy you,” coach Bob McKillop said after the game, referring to
the Wildcats’ early-season struggles. “Maybe the experience of losing taught our guys something.” Both teams struggled offensively throughout, as Chattanooga
shot 32.3 percent from the floor overall. The Mocs misfired at a sickly 20.6 clip in the first 20 minutes
— but took a 24-22 lead into the locker room. Davidson was not much better, converting only 34.8 percent of
its field goals. But the intense competition between the two most decorated programs in Southern Conference basketball history more than
made up for the lack of offensive artistry. The largest lead by either team was five — a 22-17 Chattanooga
advantage four minutes before intermission and the Wildcats and Mocs battled to four ties in the 45 minutes of play.
Two of those deadlocks occurred in the final two seconds of regulation. Sitting at 46-46 in the game’s final minute,
the Wildcat defense forced a turnover by Mocs guard Isaac Conner with seven seconds showing on the clock. Wildcat guard
Davor Halbauer took the inbounds pass from Landry Kosmalski and drove the length of the court before converting a nifty
scoop shot to give Davidson an apparent 48-46 win. “As soon as the shot went in, I thought the game
was over,” said Halbauer, who scored a season-high 15 points. “I was almost in the shower.” After further review, though,
the referees ruled that two seconds remained, giving the Mocs new life. And first-year head coach Henry Dickerson’s squad took
advantage. Chattanooga forward Francisco Colon caught a length-of-the-court inbounds pass near the free throw line. He turned and shot long,
but teammate David Phillips was there for the put-back, barely beating the buzzer to send the game into an extra
frame. The Wildcats gained the immediate upper hand in overtime, building leads of 51-48 and 53-50. “We didn’t have a
pity party,” McKillop said. “We made a statement early in overtime. That’s a great sign of maturity and growth.” But
it was the Mocs with the last chance to win. After a timeout, Chattanooga tried to set up an isolation
play for hot-shooting guard Chuck Barker, who led the Mocs with 13 points, all of them coming in the second
half. In a frenzied attempt to get him the ball in the waning seconds, though, Ali Ton swiped Idris Harper’s
pass to seal the hard-fought victory for the Wildcats. “We just finished strong, and that’s been the story in the
last couple of games,” said sixth man Ben Ebong, who paced Davidson with 16 points and contributed seven rebounds. “Now
there’s no anxiety going into late-game situations.” Correction: Last week, the Davidsonian Sports Section staff prematurely stated that the Southern
States Tournament was to be held last Thursday through Saturday. It is, in fact, to be held this week, Thursday
through Saturday. Now that you have had an extra week of notice, you have no excuse not to go. Additional
corrections will be forthcoming in future issues. — The DSS staff Ton’s last-second layup brings UNCG down By Michael J.
Kruse Senior Staff Writer GREENSBORO — The men’s basketball team stoleHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

Another one Saturday night here at Fleming Gym on the campus of UNCG. Literally. Ali Ton made a game-saving steal
for the second consecutive contest, as the Wildcats escaped with a 69-68 victory over the Spartans. Down by one, UNCG
had 25 seconds to get off a potentially game-winning shot, but ended up calling two timeouts before Ton’s heroics with
four seconds left.

“We showed a lot of different looks and created some confusion,” said coach Bob McKillop, whose squad has now won
six straight games within the Southern Conference. “That was our hope.”

“I wanted to deny my man the ball,” said Ton, who collected 10 points, six assists, and three steals in
his 33 minutes. “I just anticipated it. I hope we don’t come to that point again. But I think we’ve
been blessed as a team to come up with those plays.”

Ton’s heroics enabled Davidson to overcome a pair of stellar individual efforts by Spartans Matt Javit and Demetrius Cherry. Javit,
a senior guard, had a career night in the first half alone, scoring 26 points on 9-for-12 shooting, including 6-of-8
marksmanship from beyond the three-point arc. Thanks to a stifling zone defense the Wildcats used effectively in the second half,
Javit tallied just two points after halftime, misfiring on all three of his long-distance attempts in the frame.

“Their zone was tough to get open on,” said Javit, whose previous scoring best was 21. “All my points in
the first half came on man-to-man. They did a really good job on me in the second half.”

Cherry, though, picked up the slack, notching 14 of his 20 points in the final 20 minutes. But it wasn’t
enough, as the Wildcats limited UNCG to 29.6 percent shooting in the second half and — again — made just
enough plays necessary to win. The final score was only Davidson’s sixth lead of the game, as Davidson erased UNCG’s
32-26 halftime advantage.

“No way we would have done this a month ago,” McKillop said. “Tonight, Wednesday night (an overtime win over Chattanooga),
it was our players stepping up to the plate.”

Mark Donnelly led the Wildcats with 17 points, while Ben Ebong recorded his second double-double of the season, contributing 12
points and 11 rebounds.

---

SCOREBOARD

Baseball
Duke 8, Wildcats 3

Men’s basketball
Wildcats 53, UT-Chattanooga 52
Wildcats 69, UNC-Greensboro 68

Women’s basketball
Wildcats 83, ETSU 77
Wildcats 84, UTC 45

Wrestling
Wildcats 33, Anderson College 15
UNC-Greensboro 41, Wildcats 6
Wildcats 25, Norfolk State 15

Women’s Tennis
Tulane 8, Wildcats 1
Georgia Tech 8, Wildcats 1

---

DSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK — JEN O’BRIEN

Women’s basketball
So. Guard

In the Lady Wildcat’s narrow 83-77 victory over East Tennessee State, the sophomore co-captain narrowly missed a triple-double by tallying
11 points, 10 rebounds, and 9 assists. O'Brien's assist count in the game broke the Davidson single-season assist record. The
previous record was 133 set by Amy Hartman in the 84-85 season. O'Brien managed to break the record with five
regular season games remaining.

---

SCHEDULE

Baseball
Monday @ VMI (7:00 p.m.)

Men’s basketball
Wednesday @ South Carolina (1:00 p.m.)
Friday, Saturday, Sunday vs. Cincinnati (3:00, 2:00, 1:00 p.m.)
Saturday vs. UNC-Greensboro (7:30 p.m.)

Women’s basketball
Saturday @ UNC-Greensboro (3:00 p.m.)
Monday vs. Furman (7:00 p.m.)

Wrestling
Wednesday vs. Appalachian State (7:00)
Saturday @ Charleston vs. Citadel, UT-Chattanooga

Men’s & Women’s Swimming and Diving
Thursday-Saturday South States Championship

Men’s Tennis
Friday-Saturday @ Virginia Tech
Sunday @ Columbia

Women’s Tennis
vs. Francis Marion (9:30 a.m.), USC (2:00 p.m.)

Women’s Track and Field
Saturday-Sunday, Davidson Doubles

---

DSS GAMES OF THE WEEK

Baseball vs. Cincinnati
Thursday, Friday, Saturday * Wildcat Park

Two games into its ‘98 campaign, the baseball team faces the Cincinnati Bearcats three times in three days this weekend.
The Wildcats play at 3:00 on Friday, 2:00 on Saturday, and 1:00 on Sunday.
