By SARAH OGDEN
Editor in Chief

Last Friday, a runaway golf cart hit three students, killing one and critically injuring two. The golf cart is believed
to have been pilfered from its parking place outside the Union around 11:32 p.m. The perpetrators apparently hot-wired the cart
and proceeded to joy ride around campus at dangerous speeds approaching 20 miles per hour. Campus police are still investigating
the incident, but as yet have no suspects. They refused to release the names of the victims, but did say
that one student was killed on impact. Two others, who suffered severe head wounds and multiple fractures, are currently being
held at the Student Health Center.

“Poor suckers never saw it coming,” said one student, who asked not to be identified but purported to be a
witness. “They should keep those things under tighter supervision.”

Reconstructing the event through eyewitness accounts, tire marks, and the Psychic Friends Network, campus police estimate that after the perpetrators
made off with the golf cart, they circled Chambers approximately 3.5 times before carving a route to Patterson Court, where
they struck three pedestrians just outside of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. One of the victims, who has finally regained speech after
57 hours of counseling (but was not charged for the extra hours), said over the phone Monday night that the
three students were heading back to Richardson dorm after a late-night study session at the IMAC fields.

“I didn’t even see it coming,” said the student. “It was completely quiet; no headlights, nothing.”

After mowing down the hapless students, the perpetrators apparently sped across the grass behind the Commons, trying to escape the
scene of the crime, but the golf cart skidded on the dewy grass and flipped over four times before coming
to rest on its side. Surprisingly, the perpetrators walked away from the accident unharmed; no blood or other bodily fluids
were found on or around the abandoned golf cart. The pedestrians were not so lucky. Approximately nine minutes after they
were struck, the students were discovered by a group of prospectives returning to the sophomore dorms “down the hill” from
a mixer at the Commons. The prospectives promptly dialed 9-911 as their hosts had taught them, and emergency responders were
on the scene within ten minutes. Two of the students were declared in critical condition and Medivaced to the Student
Health Center on Glasgow St. The third student was declared dead on the scene, bagged, and left at the scene
until the Physical Plant picked the remains up Monday morning.

The SGA reportedly plans to present a resolution at its next meeting to phase out all golf carts on campus
over a period of three years. The resolution will propose that the carts be replaced with lighter, less deadly Schwinn
bicycles.

Commons door hurts
Position of handle causes injury

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

Davidson College is currently under investigation for failing to comply with building code regulations after an accident in the Commons
last Wednesday. According to unreliable sources, three students were inundated with shattered glass from a main door to Vail Commons
after one student attempted to pull the door open rather than push. Freshman Ben Carter was listed in stable condition
at Charlotte-Mecklenburg County Hospital just after 8:00 p.m., suffering minor cuts and contusions to his chest and face. Carter filed
a personal injury suit against the College the following afternoon, claiming that the College was in default for failure to
post signs explaining the direction of the doors.

“I’ve been complaining about the problem since last semester,” said Carter. “The doors just scream pull instead of push. When
you’ve finished a meal and are moseying out with your best buddies, you’re not thinking about what the fire codes
require; you’re thinking that handle says pull.”

Ironically, the outer doors of Vail Commons were built to swing out in order to comply with fire code regulations.
Unfortunately, builders installed the handles improperly and theHandles from within the building appear to require the student to pull the
door open, rather than push. “It was kind of funny at the beginning of the year,” said freshman Jessie Brown,
a Commons regular. “Everybody would try to pull the doors open and then be like, duh, I’m a freshman; you're
supposed to push. But this is no laughing matter.” “It’s all fun and games ‘til someone loses an eye,” said
fellow freshman Sarah Donelson. “Ben has every right to sue the school. It’s their job to inform us of any
threats to our safety, and they failed miserably in this case.” Representatives of the College declined to comment on the
issue on the advice of their lawyers. Faculty and staff, however, have begun a silent protest against the suit by
wearing the “Far Side” T-shirt depicting a student entering a school building for gifted students who is pushing a door
labeled “pull.” While Davidson students appreciate the faculty’s stance, they do request that the professors continue to wash the T-shirts
as they wear them, for everyone’s well-being. In the meantime, county officials have posted neon “push” signs on the doors
and are talking about placing full-time doormen at the entrances. Students are encouraged to be aware and warn one another
about the real dangers these doors present.

By MELISSA ANN DE CASTRIQUE
News Editor

In a Whitewater-esque scandal, President Bobby Vagt was subpoenaed in front of a Grand Jury yesterday for his conspiratorial involvement
with the Student Union Bookstore in reaping unheard-of profits from returned books. The threats and obscenities were fast and fierce
as Vagt and his henchman, Dean of Students Thomas Shandley, were accused late Monday. Vagt and Shandley later claimed to
have been “caught off-guard” when approached by the authorities during the Residence Life Office press conference announcing the newest theme
hall: people who like coed sports. Vagt and Shandley have been accused of spearheading a “book laundering” scheme to cheat
students when they return used books. These books are allegedly then sold to the Duke University bookstore for three times
their retail value. None of the proceeds are given to the books’ authors. The question weighing heavy on many students’
minds was, of course, why would Duke purchase these books for such a ridiculous cost? A spokesman for the University
offered this statement: “We didn’t realize that the books were more expensive. Those decimals are tricky. Our belief was that
the added cost was because of the pretty and fun highlighter marks already included. We play basketball gooder than you.”

The scandal has thrown the Davidson College powers-that-be into an uproar, and investigators are vowing to leave no stone unturned.
Many have speculated that such dirty operations are in full swing in many other campus facilities. Even the pizza bar
is being investigated for its suspicious “no pizza bagels” policy, which authorities believe to be connected to the brief return
period offered by the bookstore and also connected to El Niño. A representative of the campus police stated, “This is
simply intolerable. We are going to crack down on crimes such as those committed by Shandley and Vagt. Our devotion
to these issues will be second only to our campaign against this campus’ greatest criminals: those students who park in
laundry for 30 seconds or more.” The next step in the investigation is to locate the profits from this scandal.
Investigators believe that Vagt and Shandley have either deposited the funds in bank accounts throughout Europe or have stashed cash
in the yogurt machine on the right side of Vail Commons. Vagt and Shandley were unavailable for comment.

These allegations are especially controversial, as they come on the heels of last month’s revelation of a casino and brothel
run in the back of the bookstore during the first few weeks of class, when students are forbidden to locate
their own textbooks. Hey, it could be worse. (Need we say more?)
