2 By Mike ANDERSON Staff Writer

With 20 seniors on the roster and 15 returning starters, the 1998 Wildcat football team has been lauded as the
most promising, experienced bunch in Coach Tim Landis’s six-year tenure as head coach. In the first half of the contest
against Emory & Henry last Saturday, it showed. But, unfortunately for the ‘Cats, a football game is sixty minutes long,
not thirty.

Fifth-year senior Tom Dugan quarterbacked the Wildcat offense to 24 first-half points, while the ‘Cat defense stifled Emory & Henry’s
offensive machinery—holding them to only 28 first-quarter yards, and the ‘Cats jumped out to a 24-6 lead. But, in a
second-half choke that invoked memories of a certain Oilers vs. Bills 1992 A.F.C. wildcard game, the ‘Cats surrendered their lead
in less than thirteen minutes of third-quarter play. A scoreless fourth quarter left over 2,000 fans heartbroken as the Wildcats
suffered their second loss of the season, and their eighth consecutive to Emory & Henry.

Emory & Henry entered the football game with a perfect 2-0 record, as the ‘Cats (1-1) came into the game
a week after their first-ever overtime victory, a 16-9 win over the University of the South. The ‘Cats received the
opening kick for a touchback and opened with a consistent, pounding running game led by Eric Ferguson. Two crucial third-down
conversions sustained the opening scoring drive. The first was a 3rd & 6 pass completed to freshman standout Mike Tarver.
The second was an impressive run out of the option by Dugan, who hurdled his way to a first down.
A few plays later, the right side of the offensive line (Matt Berry-C, Jamel Wynn-RG, and Rowan Driscoll-RT) opened up
a huge hole for Ferguson, who ran the ball down to the Wasp 11. The ‘Cats threatened to put the
ball in the end zone, but a holding penalty set them back to the 11. Kicker Brian Langley knocked a
28-yard field goal through the uprights to give Davidson a 3-0 lead with 8:55 in the first quarter.

On Emory & Henry’s first possession, freshman linebacker Sam Fraundorf picked up where he left off last week (when he
led the team in tackles and blocked a punt for a safety before a game-sealing fumble recovery in overtime) with
an impressive tackle for a loss. Wasp head coach Lou Wacker tested Davidson’s defensive secondary early, but outstanding plays by
Clif Henry and Donnie Johnson forced early incompletions and eventually a punt. Davidson returned the favor after failing to convert
on a 3rd & 8, but Jeremiah Parvin delivered a 48-yard punt with a beautiful roll down to Emory &
Henry’s 14-yard line.

On Emory’s second possession, Davidson OLB Freeman Belser delivered a punishing tackle for a loss. Frank Santore, the radio voice
of Davidson football, praised Belser for, “One of the hardest hits I have ever seen the ‘Cats throw.” Just plays
later, a Wasp ball-carrier coughed up the football. When the dust had settled, it was Davidson’s Bo Henderson that emerged
from the pile-up with his arms around the football. The ‘Cats took over at Emory & Henry’s 31.

Enter Mike Tarver. The freshman receiver out of Charlotte’s Harding University H.S. wowed fans and coaches alike today with his
athleticism and play-making ability. One reporter in the press box described him as nothing less than “a star.” On this
possession, Tarver ran an artful out-and-up pattern with a spin and out-leapt his defender to bring down Dugan’s perfectly-placed lob,
putting the ‘Cats in scoring range. Dugan capped off the drive with a splendid quarterback sneak for a touchdown, emerging
untouched from the pocket through a gaping hole created by the left side of the offensive line. Davidson 10, Emory
& Henry 0. End of first quarter.

When the Wildcats took over the ball in the second quarter, an ill-advised forward pitch from Dugan set Bryan Kern
up to receive a devastating blow from an Emory linebacker, forcing a fumble. The Wasp’s Thad Beavers picked up the
football and carried it into the end zone for Emory & Henry’s only touchdown of the first half. Defensive lineman
Tom Ting deflected the PAT attempt, maintaining Davidson’s four-point lead.

Dugan showed impressive resiliency after the miscue, guiding Davidson right back downfield for yet another touchdown, capping it off with
a 22-yard dash for a touchdown. Tarver contributed nicely to the effort with a crucial downfield block to allow Dugan
to weave his way through the Wasp defense untouched. Brian Langley, who has never missed a PAT attempt in his
career, skirted this kick inside the right upright to give the ‘Cats a 17-6 lead.

On Emory’s next possession, Ryan Crawford picked off a pass from quarterback Josh Glaze to regain possession of the football
for Davidson. Thanks to some outstanding protection delivered by the ‘Cats offensive linemen, Dugan completed a key 3rd & 2
conversion to Tarver, setting up a 14-yard touchdown pass to Roland Williams. Add the PAT, and it’s 24-6 Davidson at
the half.

One of the big stories for the ‘Cats in the first half was the impressive continuing leadership and performance of
fifth-year senior quarterback Tom Dugan. Dugan is also an R.O.T.C. cadet in the Army’s Davidson Wildcat Battalion. His instructors praise
the demeanor...and charisma of this young leader, both as a quarterback and an up-and-coming officer: “He wants to be an
aviator. With that quiet, calm demeanor, he’ll be outstanding,” lauds LTC Mike Alexander. Captain Bob Geiger adds, “He’s always willing
to learn. He’s the first to say, ‘I don’t know everything.’ That’s a great thing.” In December, Dugan will graduate
from Davidson College and earn his commission as a second lieutenant.

As the Wildcats jogged off the field at the end of the first half to an ovation from the home
crowd, Emory & Henry’s defensive coordinator looked for the baseball cap he had been throwing and stomping on all half.
And then the roof fell in. The Wildcats committed mistake after mistake throughout the third quarter. Dropped punt: 24-12. Fumble
for a safety: 24-14. A mediocre kick and broken pass coverage: 24-20. Interception: 27-24. In less than a quarter, the
Wildcats surrendered their lead, and surrendered it for good. Thanks in large part to numerous Davidson turnovers, the Emory &
Henry offensive unit spent over twelve minutes on the field wearing down the Wildcat defensive team. Further miscues in the
fourth quarter vanished any hopes of a comeback. A kickoff-reception carried out of bounds inside the five. A blown pitch
resulting in a 23-yard loss on a 3rd & short. And on a crucial fourth-down conversion with less than four
minutes to go in the ballgame, Davidson failed to attain first down yardage, and turned the ball over to Emory
& Henry for the final time. The Wasps marched downfield, slowly and methodically, until the game clock expired.

Radio personality Frank Santore lamented at the end of the game, “Every time we play these guys, and every time
we play them close, and every time we lose, it just hurts a little bit more.” After the game, a
frustrated but hopeful Tim Landis said, “Let’s call it like it was: We made too many mistakes to beat the
twelfth-best team in the nation. We’ve got to step up and plays need to be made. We didn’t read the
option as well as we should have in the second half.” Despite the fact they have but a 1-2 record
to show for it, the Wildcats have delivered some impressive performances early on in this season. All three of their
games have been decided by three points or less, and the first-half performance on Saturday against the 12th-ranked Division III
football team in the nation proved that this Wildcat team can play with anybody. Landis and his boys are looking
to bounce back next weekend with a home game against Guilford College, a team that is coming off impressive shut-out
defeats of both Methodist and Washington & Lee.

Men’s Soccer Team Suffers Losses to USC and Richmond
By BEN COVINGTON AND CADER HOWARD
Sports Layout Editors

The Davidson men’s soccer team lost two games this week. On Wednesday night, the University of South Carolina Gamecocks defeated
the Wildcats 2-0, scoring in the first and last minutes of the game. Davidson lost again on Sunday to Richmond
by a score of 4-2. During Wednesday’s game, Gamecock goalkeeper Henry Ring achieved his fourth shutout this season, starting in
seven games. Concerning the loss, Davidson head coach Charlie Slagle commented, “When you play from behind against a great team
like South Carolina, it’s hard to make up the difference.”

Despite the loss, Wildcat goalkeeper Marshall Tyler had six saves. Davidson players Andrew Holbrook, Patrick Miller, Chris Norbit, David Buehler,
and Jeremy Kilburn attempted shots against South Carolina. The Richmond Spiders got off to a quick start on Sunday, scoring
two goals less than a minute apart near the beginning of the first half. The Wildcats attempted to recover from
the deficit when sophomore Andy Lanoha scored off of an assist from sophomore Dane Erickson. Davidson's second goal was scored
by senior Richard Kleiman in the beginning of the second half, bringing the score to 3-2. Then, with 24 minutes
remaining, Spider Bret Cesare scored the final goal of the game, sealing the 4-2 score.

Women’s Soccer — Volleyball — Field Hockey
Davidson 3, Campbell 0
Davidson 6, W. Carolina 0
Davidson 1, Davis & Elkins 0
Davidson 2, App St. 0
Davidson 2, Chatanooga 3
Davidson 2, Radford 4
Davidson 3, Ohio 5

Men’s Soccer
Davidson 3, Louisville 2
Davidson 0, S. Carolina 2
Davidson 2, Catawba 4
Davidson 2, Richmond 4

Carrie Porath, Women’s Soccer
Porath, a sophomore midfielder, scored the winning goal with 3:40 remaining in the Davidson-App St. game. The goal was Porath’s
first of her collegiate career. Davidson beat App. St. 1-0.

Men’s Soccer
Sep 29th, UNCG 6:15
Oct 4th-6th, Belvedere Plan. Hamstead, NC
Oct 2, Wake Forest 7:00
Oct 4th @ C. of Charleston 2:00

Cross Country
Oct 3rd @ Lehigh

Women’s Soccer
Sep 30th @ Wofford 7:00
Oct 3rd @ Richmond 4:00
Oct 4th @ UNCG 1:00

Football
Oct 3rd, Guilford College 7:00

Volleyball
Sep 30th @ S. Carolina 7:00
Oct 3rd @ C. of Charleston 2:00
Oct 4th @ G. Southern 2:00

Field Hockey
Sep 28th @ App. St. 7:30
Oct 1 @ Wake Forest 7:00
Oct 3rd, American 12:00

The Davidson men’s soccer team plays tonight against UNC Greensboro at home at 6:15 pm on Richardson Field.
