THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1998

By Setu Davis
Staff Writer

Excitement was once again the story of the Wildcat volleyball match against the Western Carolina Catamounts on Saturday, September 26 at Belk Arena. The match set up a contest between two Southern Conference rivals with identical records, but Davidson prevailed 3 games to 0.

The crucial, close game proved to be game one. The Wildcats opened with the serve and a slightly different starting lineup. Katherine Lorenz began the game for Jennifer Ortega. Katherine opened with the serve for the Wildcats. After a quick sideout by the Catamounts, the Wildcats responded and regained the serve. With Gina Lawrence serving, the first point of the match was scored for the Wildcats on a double block by Janet Duncan and Erica Schwartz.

The Wildcats sprinted out to a 7-1 lead. Early signs pointed in the direction of a quick win for Davidson. The Catamounts are a strong team, and when they began their first game comeback it was not surprising. When the game was tied 10-10, anxiety rolled through the Wildcat bench. The Catamounts then took the lead at 11-10.

The Wildcats got a side out on a kill by Gina Lawrence. With Mara Mordini serving, the Wildcats tied the game at 11-11. The Western Carolina head coach called a time out. Immediately following the time out, a spike by Brooke Bentley moved the lead back to the Wildcats.

A sideout brought the serve back to the Catamounts, who were quick to capitalize on the serve. They tied the score and then retook the lead with a block. Another point and the Catamounts stood with the serve at 14-12.

It was apparent that the Wildcats were not going to back down when they won the serve back. After an extended volley, the Catamounts regained the serve briefly but lost it when Janet Duncan hit a hard spike past the defense. With Ginny Quis now in the game for Erica Schwartz and Brooke Bentley serving, the Wildcats scored to tighten the gap to 13-14. The Catamounts got one more sideout but lost the serve following a kill by Mara Mordini. Janet Duncan took the serve and the Wildcats scored three straight to win the game 16-14. The fans in Belk Arena were in an uproar.

Game two’s first point was scored by the Catamounts, who worked their way to a 7-5 lead. A service ace by Katherine Lorenz brought the score to 7-6. After the serve was lost to a sideout, a service error by the Catamounts handed the serve to the Wildcats’ Gina Lawrence. From that point onward, the Wildcats did not look back. The Catamounts eked out one more point, but the Wildcats dominated game two, winning 15-8.

Victory was waiting for the Wildcats, who jump-started the third game by grabbing a 7-1 lead. To their credit, the Catamounts fought back and were able to make a run at the lead. Down 10-2, the Catamounts fought through a long volley to score. They were able to get as close as 5 points at 13-8. But after a net violation gave the Wildcats the serve, Brooke Bentley finished the game with a service ace. The Wildcats won 15-8.

Individual highlights for the Wildcats include the stellar play of Mara Mordini, who led the team in kills and digs. Setter Erica Schwartz had 47 assists. Four different players had at least one service ace in the game. Junior Ginny Quis provided a number of assists in her first game back from the injured list.

The Wildcats responded to an important game with a victory. In the words of Head Coach Lisa Marston, “Western Carolina is a great program and we expected a battle.” With the win, the Wildcats move ahead of the Catamounts in the Southern Conference standings.

Women’s Club Soccer ties Wake Forest

After a frustrating loss to UNC-Greensboro last weekend, the Women’s Club Soccer Team rebounded impressively at Wake Forest last Sunday. Lacking a full squad, the women fought with only ten players and fell to 0-2 at the half. However, the Cats refused to be intimidated or out-run. Brittany Fuentes governed the midfield, while goalie Amber Clark and sweeper Leila Giesenschlag steered the defense. A few minutes into the second half, Alexis Joiner recorded the team’s first goal of the season. Emily Katzfey added a second score in the last thirty seconds to tie the game 2-2.

HERBSTER TRACK & FIELD™
442 S. Main Street
Suite 100
Davidson, NC 28036
895-4010
toll free (877) XCTRACK
or catch the store online at www.lightningspeed.com

Your Running Shoe Headquarters
Call for info about running groups

Hours: Mon-Sat: 9-7
Sunday: 1-5

20% off any shoe with this coupon

Liz Reid
Sophomore Brooke Bentley (right) and her teammates prepare to return the ball in a recent volleyball game.