_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Stepping down

When I accepted the position of Co-Editor in Chief at the end of last semester, I knew that I was
going to be in for an interesting experience. At that time, I also knew that I would only hold that
title for a short time, a single semester, to be exact. As of the printing of this issue, that semester
will have expired (our semesters are slightly shorter than the college’s semesters; blame it on exams if you want to
— we do), and I will have already stepped down from my role on The Davidsonian Editorial Board.

Through it all, though, I can honestly say that I have enjoyed my time on The Davidsonian. I have had
the privilege to work with one of the best staffs anyone could have hoped for and a co-editor who demonstrated
her passion for the paper each week through her unrelenting optimism, in the direst of circumstances. Without their hard work
and devotion, this paper would be nothing but a figment of the imagination, existing only on the drawing board in
our minds. Aside from those who were involved in the production of the newspaper, though, there is an even greater
group who I have to thank: the readers. Each week, teachers, students, and subscribers pick up a copy of The
Davidsonian. Each week those readers either skim the headlines of the newspaper, read the articles of it, or respond to
the content of it. It is primarily because of the last one that I have enjoyed working on this paper
to such a great extent, because it got some sort of response.

With my editorials, for example, the responses have varied in their delivery and in their intent. Some comments came from
my friends and ranged from concern over the obscurity of a khaki commentary to support in my bouts with sleep
deprivation. Others came from my teachers in or outside of class, with friendly references to a certain color deficiency or
with interesting thoughts on the necessity of a coed eating house on campus. Still other comments came back to the
paper to be published in the next week’s Op-Ed section. Through it all, it was responses like these, some good
and some bad, that helped me to continue working on the paper. And, as I am on the verge of
giving up my seat at our Tuesday evening meetings in the television lounge, I know that I can honestly say
that I will miss The Davidsonian, both its staff and its readership.

Good luck with everything next year, Sarah; you’ve got a great staff to work with, and a great readership to
write for.

Sanches Baltornd

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

News Editors
LIZ NEIHEISEL
CHLOE BRATTON

Business Manager
HOLMES MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE

Sports Editors
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

Circulation Manager
MERRITT ABNEY

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Sports Layout Editor
WILLIAM MORETZ

Advertising Managers
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
ERIN McKINLEY

Op-Ed Editor
DAVID JOHNSTON

Photo Editor
SALLIE McMURRAY

Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
ANNA ERICKSSON
CINDY CLARK
LYNSAY MADLEY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1998

Loving the pain

Well, with this issue, The Davidsonian season comes to a close. And normally, my happy, smiley self would be overjoyed
to go on and on about how much I’m going to miss those graduating (and those who will probably graduate),
and how wonderful The Davidsonian’s staff has been, and how valuable Randy has been to the organization during his short
stay here. (No, no — he’s quitting, not transferring.) And then I might even gush for a while about how
next semester is going to be even better than this semester, even though I’m flying solo (and will therefore be
forced to take up permanent residence in the Union, without even a semblance of life outside the paper).

I could be excited and hopeful, vested with the idealism that comes with a fresh start — but why? It’s
the end of the term, and I’m tired. And bitter. And did I mention tired? Thank heavens this is our
last issue, is what I’m really thinking. Almost four whole months before I have to become a media slave again!
I might get to have a life of my own this summer, and maybe even sleep on the occasional Monday
night (though I think I’ve permanently damaged...my biological clock, so I probably won’t). Being bitter is no fun, either, though.
That’s not me. The thing is, right now I’m stuck somewhere between the energy and enthusiasm I started with this
semester and the disenchanted cynicism so many editors in chief seem to have left their positions with. And it makes
sense, when I think about it. This semester, I’ve tried (mostly unsuccessfully) to deal with a steadily shrinking staff; I
had to put out my first issue ever without a sports section because the staff quit over Christmas; and through
all of this, I’ve strived constantly not to drive the section editors mad with unreasonable demands on their time and
mental health. I’ve inadvertently offended my own gender in an editorial, and, worst of all, I’ve had to deal with
apathy — reluctance to get involved with The Davidsonian (and stay involved), reluctance to cooperate with (i.e., call back) reporters
trying to gather information, and reluctance to write 600 words to help fill a section dependent upon readers’ opinions (though
not recently). Yet, through all of this, I’ve somehow managed to 1) get a paper out every week an issue
was scheduled to come out, and 2) survive the process. I guess I should be kind of proud of that.
And dammit, I’ve enjoyed many minutes of it. Call me sick (you’re most likely right), but I like the pressure
of meeting deadlines, of attempting to do all I must while retaining some semblance of a social life (and staying
off of academic probation). I like the writing, the managing (and, yes, the power). Maybe I’m just a glutton for
punishment, but I’m coming back next semester for more. I'll be here, waiting for news to break, for opinions to
come rushing forth, for copy editors to show up. And I’ll like it. And I know that, when I return,
I will be ready to face the new semester stretching before me with new energy and new enthusiasm. I will
be happy, smiley, Sarah-Ogden-Editor-in-Chief again. And then we’ll really rock and roll.

Sarah K. Cpa

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Davidsonian erred in printing Rosenberg response

To the Editors:

I would just like to say a few words in response to the article that appeared in last week’s Davidsonian
by Ms. Kristen Taylor. It bothers me that our school newspaper, “The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly,” is trying to pass
off four paragraphs of trash-talking as an opinion piece. I believe in Ms. Taylor’s right to express whatever opinion she
wants to in the paper, no matter how much I disagree with it. However, I feel if she has a
problem with Mr. Rosenberg’s article she should critique his article — not make personal attacks on him. Claiming that he
“smokes crack,” should “go hide in his fraternity house,” or that he is afflicted with a rather nasty case of
“slackeritis” accomplishes little in the way of making her point. In fact, it serves only to make herself and the
whole College look bad. Perhaps Ms. Taylor's article was intended to be funny, to create some humor that “may be
difficult for a football player like (me) to comprehend.” But to me it came off as an immature, emotion-driven reaction
to a person and not to his ideas. One of the reasons I came to Davidson was that I was
impressed by the quality of its student newspaper. What impressed me most was how the students expressed their opinions on
controversial topics without resorting to name calling. I suppose that issue was exceptional in that regard. I wish Ms. Taylor
would write articles attacking what people say, not who they are. Any personal vendettas or problems she has with Mr.
Rosenberg, she should take up with him personally. In the future I hope the Op-Ed section will be a place
where we can propose and argue ideas intelligently and not make juvenile attempts to embarrass each other in front of
the student body.

Sincerely,
Matthew Hurt ‘01

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS continued on page 8

219, Davidson, NC 28036

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail
any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich
Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise
adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.
