JHE DAVIDSONIAN
By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts & Living Editor

The signs were difficult to believe. They said that The Second City was coming to Hodson Hall on Monday night.
With Hodson not exactly being “America’s Palace of Sketch Comedy,” I found it hard to believe that The Second City,
the famous 38-year-old Chicago-based improv comedy troupe which has given seemingly 90 percent of all Saturday Night Live cast members
their big break, was bringing its show down Interstate-77, past Dover’s, and onto Davidson’s comparatively meek premises.

Well, it was half true. The Second City has grown into its own enterprise, with permanent performance arenas now in
Chicago, Toronto, and Detroit, each with its own comedic cast. There is also the Second City Touring Company, the ensemble
in which all “tenured” cast members start out. This group tours extensively throughout the United States, routinely performing shows at
colleges our size and smaller. It was this “farm team” of sorts which brought a healthy dose of laughter to
a few hundred Davidson students on the night of Feb. 16.

Like many of Davidson’s visiting acts, the Second City performers had studied up on our fair college’s most recent controversies
in an effort to poke fun at us. The pre-show disclaimer banning the use of flash photography during the performance
also advised that “all attempts to formalize your clique into a sorority are prohibited.” One must respect such up-to-date and
specialized cultural literacy.

Although the performers said it would last two hours, the show (intermission included) lasted nearly three hours. But the audience
didn’t seem to mind the lengthy encore, as it was probably the funniest part of the evening’s entertainment. A quick
survey of the opening comedic repertoire revealed an excessive use of “gay jokes,” but few crowd members seemed offended, whether
we should have been or not.

The performance featured a variety of both scripted and improv sketches, the latter reminiscent of the sort of thing one
might see on the classic syndicated TV program “Whose Line Is It Anyway?”. An example of the group’s use of
“local jokes” arose in a sketch taking place in the Mooresville Dollar Store, run by a host of ex-Greek gods,
including Zeus, Hera, and Hermes. The most memorable line had to have been Zeus’s threat to Hera: “If you were
not my wife and my sister, I would strangle you!” Okay, so you had to be there.

The six Second City performers came equipped with a wide array of costumes and a skilled pianist, who improvised a
soundtrack for each skit. A recurring sketch throughout the evening involved a man accused of murder and his lawyer, who
together attempted to devise a story to tell the judge so that the alleged murderer might be acquitted, although the
evidence against the murderer included a videotape of the murderer killing the victims, with the murder even announcing “I’m going
to kill you” before taking each person’s life in succession. Fortunately, once the two arrived at the trial, they discovered
that the judge, prosecuting attorney, and stenographer all went to Yale, so the murderer, himself a Yale grad, got off
free. Again, if you had been there, you would have laughed. The rest of us did. It was all in
the delivery.

Another sketch engendered the cry, “I’m not just a stem I’m a human being!”, which begs for an explanation, but
it’s almost funny enough on its own. One of my personal favorites was a skit intended to poke fun at
National Public Radio (NPR) retrospectives. A radio show entitled “Urban Wind” devoted a solid 15 minutes to examining the historical
importance of the banana, as interpreted by, among others, a professor of sociology (which was probably my favorite joke all
evening).

A definite crowd favorite was a reworking of a scene from Tennessee Williams’s “The Glass Menagerie,” in which the newly-edited
script involved many instances of harsh verbal blaspheming. For us, a group of a few hundred college students getting to
see such a cherished theatrical classic mocked in such a brilliant way, it was a truly liberating experience. We all
laughed till it hurt.

Unfortunately, a detailed description of the evening’s antics simply cannot do the performance justice. If you know anyone who went,
chances are excellent that they were glad they did.

Replacements necessary
“Replacement Killers” script needs overhaul
By Ed Pace
Staff Writer

Wes, Bennett, Scott, and I ventured out into the great beyond known as Cornelius two Saturdays ago. The burgeoning metropolis
was to be our source of entertainment, since events had conspired against us being with our respective valentines that night.
Our chosen medium that evening was to be the new action flick “The Replacement Killers” with Asian action star Chow
Yun-Fat and the beautiful Mira Sorvino. Well, to make a short story of it all — we made a very
poor choice. The first question after the movie had ended was who was to blame for this selection. Near the
end of the movie, Bennett and I were so frustrated with the poor conversations between the characters that we created
our own dialogue, which was actually much better than what we were tolerating on screen.

Chow Yun-Fat plays Chinese immigrant John Lee, forced to be an assassin for a powerful Los Angeles mobster. The gangster
had threatened to harm Lee’s family back home if he didn’t comply. Lee is willing to do two “jobs” for
the gangster, because the victims are criminals. Yet he refuses to complete his third job because of a conscience attack.
Thus, the gangster is...

[The text cuts off here.]

Exhibit. The art equivalent to e.e. cummings. All week long. 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. in the College Union.
Coffeehouse. A house of mocha... Well, not really. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Free newtons — sans prose this week. 7:30 - 12:30 p.m. at the Outpost.
Forum. Let's talk about sex, baby. 6:00 + 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Cynthia Lawing, Piano. Cynthia Lawing playing the piano. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Week. 12:30 - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Girl Scout Cookie Sale. Free Girl Scout with every go to the Union Lobby.
Meditation Class. Find...your inner self. 5:30 - 6:30 p.m. in the Home Room. RLO Program. It's about careers. (Complaining about
lottery numbers will get you nowhere.) 6:30 - 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Eating Disorders Panel Discussion. “How I
survived my eating problem.” 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Waist Away. Part of Eating Disorder Awareness purchase.
3:30 - 5:00 p.m. on the Union Patio. If rain, forced to bring in “replacement killers,” and he adds Lee
to his list of targets. Mira Sorvino is a freelance document forger who becomes John Lee’s sidekick for the duration
of the film. Sorvino’s character has several problems with clothes throughout the film, including her sweater being held closed with
only a safety pin for the last third of the movie. I really have a problem with so many films
that show a ruthless killer showering bodies with bullets, but then discovering he has a conscience. Usually, this movie included,
the change might be plausible, but writers rush through the revelation and its effect is lost. They could spend a
dramatic film on this entire subject and cut the body count in half. But the filmmakers choose to rush through
this metamorphosis and then later try to cover their asses with some references to worry over his family. Antoine Fuqua
makes his film debut as a director here. He’s directed only music videos up to this point, including the Coolio
“Gangsta’s Paradise” video. One of my friends astutely pointed out that this movie comes across as one long music video.
The background music in this film is louder than in other films I have seen recently, maybe the loudest in
any film I’ve ever seen (my memory for this sort of thing is not always trustworthy). I don’t think it
was the director. The actual purpose for this technique I’m not sure of, but it probably made him more comfortable
in this new career move since he’s used to music videos. The only redeeming factors were a few very good
filming segments. John Woo, who directed “Broken Arrow” and “Face/Off,” produced this film. His influence was noticeable every so often
throughout the film. I enjoyed both “Broken Arrow” and “Face/Off,” and I have a feeling that with a slightly better
script and with Woo directing, this could have been on the same caliber as his previous efforts. But as it
stands now, the movie isn’t worth the price of admission. Grade: C-

Cheap Donuts. Frosted frugality. 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby. Coffeehouse. Our little version of Starbucks. 8:15
- 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room. Performing Shakespeare Class. It is a far, far better thing. 1:00 - 5:00
p.m. in Johnston-L25. Spring Break. Get down with your “not-at-college” self. 4:00 - later. Northwest Flight #1473. Leaves CLT for
DTW at 4:00 p.m. Red Cross Dinner. Due to a shortage, blood sausage will not be served. 5:00 - 10:00
p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

As a result of a few crossed stars, we now bring you the Post-Valentine’s Day 1998 L*O*V*E*scope

PISCES (February 19 - March 20) True love is just around the corner, but it will never happen if you
spend all your free time on Pollux. Try something new — like an Intramural sport. (Hooking up on the IMAC
fields does not count.)

ARIES (March 21 - April 19) You've been living vicariously through your friend’s steamy relationship (and so have everyone else
on the hall). It is time to make your voice be heard. Your own affair is just within range.

TAURUS (April 20 - May 20) Davidson is a virtual gold mine of ecstasy just waiting to be unearthed by
you. But first, you must explore it. Dig deep and find the nugget that is yours. When you do, lay
your claim upon his or her lips (smack!).

GEMINI (May 21 - June 20) Break the victim mold. We get it — you’ve loved, you've lost, and now
it’s time to move on. Find a new outlet for all of your emotional electricity. Your astral soulmate could be
just outside your carrel.

CANCER (June 21 - July 22) On a scale of one to ten, your love life ranks below your GPA
(which ain’t sayin’ much). Take the plunge — try a relationship. Don’t be afraid to flex your long-dormant love muscles.

LEO (July 23 - August 22) You are a lioness, and Davidson is your jungle. Don’t let life de-claw you
— Roar!!! Unleash your inner beast. Be on the prowl for something more than a recurring hookup.

VIRGO (August 23 - September 22) You are addicted to love, yet a new era is on the horizon. Honestly,
try to answer the Big Questions in life. “Who makes me happy?” Be selective. Your dog? Your roommate? That certain
someone in your 9:30 a.m. English class?

LIBRA (September 23 - October 22) Your new romance has endless possibilities — the only question is, which will you
choose? But, if the relationship fizzles, all you can do is blame it on the rain.

SCORPIO (October 23 - November 21) Just because you are perfect doesn’t mean your love life is to be. A
3.0 on the Richter scale is still enough to rock your world.

SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21) You've looked everywhere for that special someone: the Commons, the Union, the Court, and
even the ‘Brairy. Instead of trying to find a lover, you should learn to love yourself. Narcissism can be a
good thing.

CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19) If your love life in Davidson has not been up to par, don't despair.
The whole reason for studying abroad is to meet beautiful, unsuspecting people. Excitement awaits you in an unfamiliar location.

AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18) You've nourished your intellect and left your passions unattended for too long. In the
coming year, you will use that room in Chambers for something much more creative than Econ homework.
