in women’s

By Douglas CUTTING
Sports Editor

ASHEVILLE, NC - Junior Suzy Burr’s first-place finish in the 800 meter was the highlight of the weekend meet at UNC Asheville. Two freshmen, Smyth Bitter and Jill Neumyer, finished close behind Burr’s 2:29 time with second and third place respectively. Because it is a square track with four turns, the four-lane indoor facility is not a place to set personal records. All things considered, “both the women and men ran good aggressive races,” said senior distance runner Tripp Franklin. “The track is banked, but the four turns make for slower times.”

The men’s 4X400 relay teams finished strong in their heat. Steve Hsieh, John Moore, Adam Marcotte, and Michael Albert won the heat, while Stan Baker, Ikenna Myers, Joe Battles, and David Vaughn finished third. “It was a tough track,” and we ran our hardest,” noted Stan Baker.

Wrestling 1-2 in Longwood tourney

By Bratton Holmes
Sports Editor

FARMVILLE, VA. — In scenic Farmville, the home of Longwood College, the Wildcat wrestling squad posted a losing record for the weekend for the first time this season, yet still preserved an impressive 6-4-1 record for the season. The Wildcats, who have been far more successful than any Davidson squad in many years, finished the weekend 1-2, narrowly losing to Norfolk State and Campbell while avenging their only tie of the season with a strong victory over Anderson College.

The highlight of the Norfolk State match was the performance of sophomore Ian Kaplan, who pinned his opponent in just under a minute. Also, Jeff Libersat won a close match at the 167 class, defeating his opponent 2-1. These two victories, combined with forfeits to Dan Carman and Andy Sterling, gave the Wildcats a total of 21 points with three weight classes remaining. However, Norfolk State rallied to win the final three classes and win the match with a final score of 25-21.

The Campbell match was also decided by only a few points. Dan Carman won a forfeit for Davidson at 118, but Davidson also lost the 134 class by forfeit. Of the eight remaining weight classes not decided by forfeit, Davidson and Campbell split 4-4. Kaplan and Libersat again won their matches. Ron Williams also had a win, and senior Ben Wall handily defeated his opponent by a score of 10-1. The meet was ultimately decided by a victory by pin for Campbell, which gave them 23 points to the Wildcats’ 20.

In the final match of the day, the Wildcats avenged an unfortunate tie by defeating Anderson College by a score of 34-18. Of the six classes not decided by forfeit, Davidson won four. Kaplan had his second pin of the tournament, giving him a record of 3-0 on the day. Rookies Dan Carman and Ron Williams, as well as Anthony Albert, had victories in their matches. Davidson also won three classes by forfeit to give the team 34 points and a very dominant victory.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

DAVIDSON - On Saturday, Jan. 31, the Davidson swim team redefined a season of narrow victories and inconsistent performances. The definition was excellence. In a battle for bragging rights, the men’s squad defeated rival ACC opponents Duke 136-98 and Georgia Tech 168-66. The women were narrowly defeated by Duke 109-129, but dominated newcomers North Carolina A&T 156-46.

“I am ecstatic over the way our team worked together,” said head coach Rich DeSelm. “We were primed to peak at the right time as far as team spirit and cohesiveness. This confirms our ability to beat Duke’s men.”

Plagued by disqualifications at last week’s College of Charleston meet, Davidson’s relays set the pace Saturday with consecutive victories in the men’s and women’s 400 yard medley relays. The women attacked first, improving five seconds over their season best, and established a pattern for the rest of the meet. Duke retaliated by claiming victory in the distance events, including the 1000 and 500 yard freestyle, but the sprints belonged to Davidson. Freshman Elissa Weddle and Junior Bill Paterson claimed victory in the 50 yard freestyle, while sophomore Scott Harper led a 1-2 finish in the men’s 100 free.

“I certainly did a lot better than I expected to,” said Paterson, who recently returned from a semester abroad in the Caribbean.

A high point of the meet came mid-way through, as sophomore Terry Dolch set a new school record in the men’s 200 yard backstroke with a time of 1:52.87. Dolch’s time beat the standard set by senior Freddy Schnell in lastyear’s Southern States. “It wasn’t in my goals for the meet,” said Dolch. “It was more an end-of-the-season goal. I wasn’t expecting to be swimming this fast at this point in the season.” Davidson further secured their victory over Duke with Kurt Hirsekorn’s first-place finish in the 200-yard breaststroke. “The team really came together well. A lot of people had their best times to date,” said Dolch. Junior captain Jason Prince said, “We were able to swim well all the way around,” citing consistent efforts across the board. “A lot of times this year we would be strong in some places and less consistent in others, but this time there were no holes.” The depth of the squad was evident in several 1-2 finishes. “I think that we swam as well as we knew we could, but we expected more competition (from Duke),” said senior captain David Maddux. Prince agreed. “We were expecting the win, but we also expected a close tight race.” Georgia Tech, an emerging ACC opponent, showed visible improvement since last year’s match-up. “Georgia Tech will be harder and harder to beat in the coming years,” said DeSelm.

Despite strong efforts and serious time drops by the women’s squad, Duke edged by Davidson after losses in three critical races. The difference between first and second finishes in those three races totaled a mere 1.09 seconds. “If there had been no other changes in the meet except these, we would have won,” said DeSelm. “To have beaten Duke would have been a milestone,” said DeSelm. “It comes down to heart and desire and winning close races.” But the meet was hardly a total loss. Sophomore Mary Shell Brosche and senior captain Mary Noel George both turned out strong performances, as did many other members of the squad. “We knew it was going to be a really difficult meet,” said George. “We knew we’d have to dig deep and come together. We had hopes of winning and that didn’t happen, but I think we did well overall.” Junior captain Kathleen Paffenroth also found success in the meet. “We came a lot closer to beating Duke than we had last year. Losing is always a disappointment, but we saw improvement and we have to be happy.”

Women’s squad crushes NC A&T

Saturday’s success couldn’t have come at a better time for the Wildcats, with Southern States looming just two weeks away. Both squads claimed victory at the 1997 conference championship and are hoping for a repeat performance. “It’s gonna be a great boost for Southerns,” said Paterson. “Beating Duke always seems to boost morale on the team.”

Sallie McMurray

Men’s swimmers beat Duke and Ga. Tech last Saturday in the Cannon Pool, while the women beat NC A&T, but lost narrowly to Duke. “For the men, it will be a lot easier to win Southern States after beating Duke,” said Maddux. “The women had a good meet too, and there’s no reason they cannot do the same (at Southerns). First place is definitely there for both teams.” DeSelm, while confident after the men’s 100+ point victory in 1997, recognizes the challenge ahead. “With some of the holes in our line-up, it’s gonna be close. We'll have to make up for it in other areas.” One of the main obstacles of the championship meet is that Davidson has not faced all of their conference opponents this season. A loss earlier this season to rival Georgia Southern presents an added challenge. “We're definitely a stronger team than we were last year, but we’re not taking anything for granted,” said Prince. The women, too, are not out of the picture. “If the women swim up to their capabilities, I think they could quickly take control of the meet,” said DeSelm. “The momentum is high,” said Paffenroth. “We're all under the mentality that we’re going to win, but it’s harder to repeat.”

Saturday’s meet was also important for many of the seniors, as the final home dual meet of their college careers. Graduating seniors include men Matt Lake, David Maddux, and Freddy Schnell, and women Allison Beebe and Mary Noel George. Also graduating is team manager Emily Richards, who has dedicated many hours behind the scenes to the team’s success. The team’s final meet will take place Feb. 12-14 at Cannon Pool, as the teams face off against Southern States’ main opponents Georgia Southern, Louisville, and Evansville. Both squads are defending their titles from last season.

WRITE FOR DAVIDSONIAN Sports. WE GET THE BEST SEATS. Writers to cover spring sports are needed. Call Bratton Holmes (x6725), Doug Cutting (x6646), or Brian Mayerhofer (x6525).