THE DAVIDSONIAN | TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

We’re doing it for you

“He’s going down,” triumphed a friend of mine after news of President Bill Clinton’s possible impeachment broke. And it’s true: right now, things are not looking good for our fearless leader. Since last Thursday night, when I first saw Headline News’ coverage of Clinton’s seeming demise, my television viewing has become more or less wall-to-wall Bill, Monica, and so-called “expert analysts.” And it fascinates me; I don’t even mind when Tom Brokaw interrupts “Days of Our Lives” for “NBC News Special Reports” — much, anyway.

Friday, though, my poli sci professor discussed a topic that grew increasingly disturbing to me: the role the media and its “feeding frenzy” play in this matter, and the way in which they influence the opinions of the American people. As a member of the enigma commonly known as “the press,” I was more than prepared to defend my kind if (when, I suspected) the class discussion degenerated from an innocuous debate of issues to mere media-bashing. Much to my surprise, however, this never happened. Though there was an element of discontent with the press’s coverage (“media circus,” anyone?) of the latest Clinton scandal, the debate never regressed to the point of entirely false generalizations.

A few things did arise, however, that I disagree with, and one point in particular: though it was only mentioned in passing, it perturbs me that some believe that the media dictates how closely the people attend to an issue. To a degree, of course, I feel compelled to agree with this statement; it’s simply logical that the more — and the more prominent — information on a subject is, the more likely people are to give it attention. Beyond that, however, I must disagree: the media does not dictate the extent to which an event is covered; rather, it is the viewers, readers, or listeners who determine the importance of an event.

Case in point: The Davidsonian’s extensive coverage of the Gist trial in our Sept. 23 issue was written in response to the overwhelming number of people present at the trial, as well as the outpourings of Letters to the Editor and other responses. This obvious interest on the part of the student body is what led former Editor in Chief Michael Kruse to devote so much manpower and space to the trial. Going back to my assertion from last week: We are completely at your mercy. You, the consumers, are who we, the press, cater to; I admit it. The media is comprised of humans, and is therefore fallible. Yet despite our apparent lack of attainable perfection, we really aren’t the evil sludge some make us out to be. It’s a double-edged sword, I guess; but until human nature evolves to the point of absolute purity, we’re pretty much stuck with the system we've managed to eke out from the depths of a flawed nature.

Sianak E. Cedar

Concern and praise

During at least one point in everyone’s past, it is assumed that there is an event for which that person would like another chance. However, no matter what the event concerned, be it asking someone out to a movie or the decision to print a certain article in a newspaper, the person who was involved in the situation knows that he or she will never get a second chance. While a date proposal can often be remedied in one way or another (or at least one would hope), a newspaper editor can never fully retract the meaning of the printed word.

In the Jan. 15 issue of Libertas, Vic Brand, the newly appointed Senior Editor, allowed Mike Miga to publish his truly racist piece on his time abroad in India. While I know that Libertas has disclaimers pertaining to the content of their newspaper, most of those involved in any publication — be it associated with news or not — know that an article of this offensive caliber should not even be considered for publication.

On a lighter note, I thought that I would take this opportunity to say something about the current freshman class. Since they were first spotlighted in The Davidsonian just five months ago, a number of freshmen have been able to accomplish a great deal in their extra-curricular activities. While the obvious example would undermine both my integrity and that of this newspaper, it was not a difficult task to find other examples to take its place. In the SGA, the freshman senators (highlighted earlier in this issue) have been quickly jumping at various tasks at hand. From the water pressure problem that Dane Erickson is trying to correct to the important issue of diversity on this campus, which Allen Lee’s COMA organization is trying to bring into the forefront, the freshman SGA senators have shown great promise for the semester to come.

Another example of freshman achievement lies within the organization that embodies freshmen power: F-CREW. An acronym standing for “Freshmen Can Run Everything Well,” this group has successfully planned a plethora of activities both during the previous semester and for this semester to allow freshpersons to bond with one another. However, the greatness does not end there. Through our athletic programs, freshmen have shown both students and alums their prowess on track, field, and court. Making sacrifices for the win and fighting to avoid loss, these athletes have begun their careers to stardom. So, when you see a first-year student (as RLO would have one describe them), now would be the best time to scoff at them, because within only a few weeks, they might actually be running everything.

Cully

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

A “thank you” from CROP

To the Editor: WeJust wanted to let everyone know about one of the good things happening on Davidson's campus. CROP, an organization raising money for hunger relief and awareness, just had its most successful semester ever! We wanted to thank all the walkers (over 100) who showed up on a rainy and miserable day to walk six miles for world hunger relief. We raised $8,199.01!!! That’s Davidson’s largest total yet. Also, we would like to thank all of the volunteers who attend, sponsor, and help at the weekly CROP lunches, which also raised hundreds of dollars this past semester for local hunger issues. Special recognition is necessary for the Office Support Staff, the Controller’s Office, Rusk House, Kappa Sigma, Connor House, and Warner Hall for providing lunches of rice, beans, and cornbread. Davidson’s CROP lunches will continue this semester each Thursday from 11:45 to 1:15 in the 900 Room of the College Union. We invite you to come join us and to bring a small donation for your lunch to support Loaves and Fishes, your local food pantry. Also, get ready for the 20th annual CROP Walk next fall. If you have any questions, or want to get involved with promoting hunger awareness and relief, please call either of us! We can all make a difference in our community! Thanks!

Whitney Frazier ‘00
Sarah Muffelman ‘00

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Asst. News Editor
MIKE GILLESPIE

Photo Editor
SALLIE McMURRAY

Circulation Manager
MERRITT ABNEY

Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
BRATTON HOLMES
SCOTT REEDER
LYNSAY MADLEY
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
ANNA ERIKSSON
DAVID JOHNSTON

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

An apology to the Davidson community

Dear Davidson Family,

I publicly would like to apologize for my actions while running for freshman class senator last fall. Call this an attempt to win votes for the upcoming elections if you wish to make false accusations, but this is from my heart. This evening I, as an original candidate for freshman senator in the fall, went before a group of my peers (whom I would like to remain anonymous) to interview for a vacant senator position. I was not chosen to fill the vacancy, but what I said in the interview really means a lot to me, and I would like to share some of it with you.

When I heard about the fall elections to be an SGA senator for the freshman class, I was thrilled. This past summer I worked on a political campaign, and politics have always fascinated me. However, I must admit that rather than serving the school as my first priority, I eagerly desired a leadership position. This is where I went wrong. As you know, I used the name “Hot Toddy” for name recognition and appeared as though I were a drinker. “Hot Toddy” was a nickname I had briefly in middle school, but in using it, I deceived you. I wanted so bad to win the election that I disowned many of the things that are so dear to me — my faith, the values instilled by my parents, my honesty, and myself. I kept telling myself, “It’s okay. It’s just an election.” When I didn’t win the election, I was quite upset. It wasn’t until I became stronger in my faith that I realized what had actually transpired. I was so wrapped up in campaigning that I forgot who I was. I TRIED TO BE SOMEONE I’M NOT! Never do this to yourselves! I thought I knew who I was. I thought I was secure in my faith and my convictions, but I went to whatever extent necessary to fit in. I was a hypocrite. I’m glad my peers did not select me to fill the vacancy this evening. I do not deserve the position as freshman class senator.

Again, I apologize and thank you for your time, and do not be afraid to be yourself! Your identity is one of the most precious gifts you have. Please learn by my example, and do not betray it.

With Warmest Regards,
Todd C. Grabill ‘01

Vamanos Van still improving itself

To the Editor:

In response to the “Tale of a stranded passenger” in last week’s Davidsonian, I first of all want to apologize to Ms. Petty for the inconvenience. It was a lack of communication between drivers, and there’s no excuse for it. But we also hope that she realizes that this is the first full semester the van service has been in operation. We are working hard to get the kinks out of this very new program. Plans for a cellular phone have been in the works since a few weeks before Christmas break and will become a reality this week. This past week, we changed the way we schedule van drivers and have almost the entire semester scheduled in advance. We now have a notebook in the van with guidelines, the drivers’ schedules, and a log book in which we record all people to be picked up and dropped off, as well as all incoming and outgoing cellular phone calls (once it is in place). I also think that it is important that people realize that van drivers are all student volunteers. They drive because they want to and receive nothing for it. I’m sorry for Ms. Petty’s (and anyone else’s) inconvenience when the van has let them down. But we ask for your support, benevolence, and patience. We are working to make the van the best it can be.

Chris Tuttle ‘99
SGA Rides Committee Chair

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR continued on page 11