8 ____ THE DAVIDSONIAN

April Fool Night up BlackBox

Student-written plays captivate audience

By MELISSA DE CASTRIQUE
News Editor

Last Wednesday and Thursday night at 7:30 p.m., Theatre and Speech Chair Joseph Gardner’s Studio Theatre class presented a collection
of original scenes entitled “April Fools.” Class members performed short scenes they had written for the class on topics ranging
from humorous relationships to acquaintance rape. The show was enjoyable and engaging, and the varied material kept the audience interested.

Many of the scenes were surprisingly refreshing for student works. For example, “Smokescreen,” by sophomore Ashley Houston, presented the story
of a woman, Marcy, and her boyfriend planning to trick her rich ex-husband into giving her money. In a funny,
ironic twist, Marcy’s ex-husband and “boyfriend” turned out to be gay lovers who were seeking revenge for Marcy’s conniving ways.

In addition to impressing the audience with their scene writing abilities, the class displayed their acting talents and skills. The
entire class gave commendable performances in their respective scenes. Senior Phil Finch gave an exceptionally engrossing performance as a girl
who had been raped by a friend while she was drunk. Her monologue, “Girl,” was both realistic and poignant. Whereas
other scenes drew laughter from the audience, not a single noise was made during her monologue.

The final scene, “The Jerry Show” presented in Shakespearean English, was definitely the most humorous. Freshman Will Williams was excellent
as talk-show host Jerry, who tried to keep a dramatic, dysfunctional married couple under control. Sophomores Chase Bringardner and Suzanne
Moore as Edward and Elizabeth not only evoked laughter from the audience but also showed that Shakespeare’s characters were no
less unstable than the average talk-show host guest.

The audience was seated on all sides of the black box, so that viewers themselves often felt like participants in
the scenes. Also, the show was just long enough to give students ample opportunity to showcase their skills without being
so long that the audience got restless. This performance by the 14-person ensemble was both thought-provoking and humorous. The fact
that all of the scenes were student-written made it even more impressive.

Davidson College Symphony Orchestra to perform Mozart and Beethoven

Spring Concert to conclude landmark year

By WESLEY H. GOFORTH
Arts & Living Editor

On Thursday, April 9, the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will give its annual spring concert at 8:00 p.m. in Love
Auditorium. Concert repertoire will include Mozart’s Concerto No. 2 for Horn in Eb Major and Beethoven’s 5th Symphony in its
entirety.

This concert is particularly significant as it marks the final concert for the DCSO’s first four-year-member graduating class since the
orchestra’s inception in Fall 1994. The ensemble has doubled in membership over the past four years, and continues to evolve
and strengthen at an impressive rate. They have performed many styles and genres of music, from solo concertos to full
symphonic repertoire, from the Baroque through the present day.

The horn concerto will be performed by senior music major Erika Rissing, a charter member of the symphony and winner
of this year’s (and first annual) DCSO Concerto Competition. “As the principal horn of the orchestra since it began four
years ago, I’ve enjoyed being a part of its growth,” Rissing said. “As a prospective student, I was frustrated to
learn that Davidson had no symphony orchestra. I was thrilled when I found out that Dr. Prior was rejuvenating the
program. My experience in the orchestra has been instrumental in my growth as a musician, and crucial in helping me
prepare for graduate study in performance. The orchestra’s steady growth has been a great achievement, which the efforts of both
Dr. Prior and the students have made possible.”

The second half of the program will feature Beethoven’s Symphony No. 5 in C Minor, a “milestone in symphonic writing,”
according to conductor Richard Prior. This famous work features the well-known “short-short-short-long” motive in its first movement. The motive not
only represents “fate knocking at the door,” but also represents the Morse code signal for the letter “V,” as in
“Victory.” This symphony, completed in 1808, is one of the most difficult full orchestral works of its period.

Thursday night’s concert promises to be a spectacular display of musicianship. The orchestra warmly invites all students, faculty, staff, and
community members alike to attend. Admission is free.Body

Be sassy with your sexualité

Well, kids, I have been out of it for quite some time, but I am back now. So put on
your kinkiest little outfits, ‘cause we are going for another adventure in the world of sex. This week we are
going to focus our efforts on sexualité. (That is sexuality for those of you who do not know my lingo:
the “e” is pronounced like an “a.”) We are going to see if we can become more comfortable with all
types of sexualité: heterosexuals, bisexuals, homosexuals, and whatever else there is out there.

Sexualité is a very important aspect of our daily lives, and it is something we should take seriously. We should
become comfortable in exploring our sexualité alone and with whomever we take a notion to explore it with. If you
should cross by, unlock it when you want to, or you can leave it open all the time, or you
can bolt it up after that first time, but please do not close off this door of sexual opportunity before
you know what you want. Please, please, please do not feel afraid to explore.

It is important when exploring that you remember to keep an open mind about things. How are you going to
learn if you like something if you never try to like it? I know some of you are turning up
your noses as I speak, but you should really give your sexualité a lot of consideration. This is a very
complicated issue and I would hope that the bright little minds of Davidson could take the time one weekend or
while you are a little drunk to discuss these crucial aspects of life. Talk openly in these discussions and you
will see that you will have a lot of fun and learn a lot about yourself and others.

Sometimes people can be brutal, and this is one of the topics people get really uncomfortable with. Remember that what
it all basically comes down to is that you have two people who love and care for each other very
much whether it be man-woman, woman-woman, or man-man. So, from now on, I am going to be on the lookout
for all you kinky kids to be in your safari sex motifs looking to explore the raging wild jungle of
love and sexualité!!!

As always, I hope you enjoy life to the fullest. Have fun, and if you should have any questions or
concerns, let us know here at The Student Body.

By (Your mama) and (Your dog)

This week, (your sign), the (adjective) planet of (abstract idea), (Planet), is in (your roommate’s sign), your (building) of relationships.
(Phrase of warning): You don’t want to (verb) that stellar opportunity on the 11th, the first (adjective) moon of April.
As for your love life, you are in the mood for (noun). (Name of your love interest) just might (verb)
your (noun). You can expect classes to be (adjective) all week, and with Easter approaching, your (vegetable) will be especially
(adjective). A(n) (adjective) friend will bring you (adjective) news about (something you are worried about). Take (friend’s) words with a
(unit of measurement) of (seasoning). You have the capacity to (verb) the situation. Don’t (verb) everything you (sensing verb).

Photographers
Sports Writers

We’re still on the look-out for:

Arts & Living Editor
Arts & Living Writers
Layout Staff Members

Please call Sarah Ogden (x6508) or Randy Skattum (x6667) for more information.
