Press RELEASE College Relations

Two winners in the eighth annual educational software creation contest sponsored by “Computers in Physics” (CIP) magazine represent Davidson College. John Cowan, a 1997 cum laude honors graduate now enrolled at Johns Hopkins Medical School, was one of two winners for his software program entitled “Cool.” Davidson physics professor Wolfgang Christian received an honorable mention for the creation of “Physlets,” a set of Java applets designed for use in Web-based curricular material.

That success in an international competition might surprise outsiders, but it didn’t surprise the editors at CIP. Entries from Davidson students and Christian, a leader in the field of computational physics, have been winners in the contest for the past four years straight, and for six of the eight years it has been held. No other college or university anywhere has done as well.

Christian credits their success to curricular innovation. Students at Davidson learn to write software for scientific purposes during their freshman or sophomore years in a “computational physics” course that spurs some of them to produce prizewinning work before they graduate. Christian said most schools teach computational physics as an upper-level course and as a specific skill, rather than teaching it early and urging students to apply it throughout the curriculum.

“The course really did spark my interest in computers,” said Cowan, who took it in his freshman year and informally wrote some programs during the next two years that simulated physics problems. During the fall of his senior year, he undertook laboratory work on laser trapping and cooling of atoms as an honors thesis with Professor Robert Cline. As part of his thesis, he decided to create a computer simulation of the experiment so he could share it with others interested in the field.

“The experiment looks pretty ominous on a lab bench, but on a computer screen it looks friendly,” he said. “The equipment is expensive and the setup is very complex, so very few students ever have a chance to experience this branch of physics. Using the computer simulation, though, many more grad school and college students can gain a better understanding of what laser cooling is all about.”

Cowan noted that the innovators in this new area of physics, called “atomic optics,” won last year’s Nobel Prize in physics. Laser cooling, he said, is an ingenious, counter-intuitive process in which laser beams are used to cool, rather than heat up, atoms. They can be cooled almost to absolute zero, at which temperature they can be isolated and studied. “It’s pushing the envelope of what you can do experimentally,” said Cowan. “You're cooling atoms well beyond what scientists have been able to do in the past. Once they’re that cold, they begin acting in different ways, and you can study and measure them in new ways.”

Cline said the process may have eventual application in creating smaller integrated circuits and manipulating biological cells and their components such as DNA. Cowan’s program, written in Visual Basic and “C” computer languages, simulates this laser cooling and trapping of atoms. It allows the user to monitor and record the progress of single or multiple neutral cesium atoms in a magneto-optical trap formed by crossed lasers in a magnetic field. Users can change variables and parameters of the experiments, and see how those changes affect the results. The program presents two main screens that display points representing atoms, and shows their distribution in both position and velocity space over time as they are affected by the lasers. Several short instructional movies illustrating the principles of atomic cooling are provided, and the graphs can be printed when the simulation is paused. Cowan also provides his thesis at the website where the mathematical basis for the simulations is explained.

The judges were obviously impressed with Cowan’s academic initiative. They wrote in the article, “If the author completed this program in addition to setting up a working experimental magneto-optical trap, his senior year must have been busy indeed.” The judges don’t actually know the half of it: Cowan was also a four-year starter on the football team and won the Tommy Peters Award for the male athlete “best typifying the Davidson spirit in athletic competition and campus leadership.” He was president of the College’s Patterson Court Council of fraternities and eating houses, and traveled extensively through Europe, Pakistan, and China. He was elected to the Phi Beta Kappa academic honor society, the Sigma Pi Sigma physics honor society, and the Omicron Delta Kappa leadership honor society. He also won the Goodwin-Exxon award for outstanding character and leadership, and received an NCAA postgraduate fellowship to attend Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.

His knowledge of computer programming has already proved valuable in medical school. Johns Hopkins has employed him to write software to help streamline the patient records process, with medical personnel entering data in the patient room. He is also working on a “pet rock” project on the side—creating a cookbook program that creates shopping lists and menus for those interested in the culinary arts.

Christian’s “Physlets” are small programs that simulate 11 principles of physics, including the Doppler Effect and pendulum motion. He posted them to the World Wide Web so that physics teachers can use them in their classes.everywhere can download them and adapt them to their own curricula. The judges wrote, “We encourage other physicists to follow Christian’s example of making high-quality physics-related applets and their source code freely available on the Web.” Christian believes that computational physics represents a major change in the way the discipline is taught. He said, “The technology and the way we do this puts students on equal footing with faculty. They soak up the technique and technology as fast as faculty can, so our projects are much more a cooperative venture than the traditional relationship. I learn from them as often as they learn from me.” He said computational physics has value for anyone who needs to use computers, and that only about half the students enrolled are physics majors. “The course is about much more than programming,” he explained. “It’s about learning to send me your homework with FTP, about researching on the Web, about designing a good interface that’s understandable to the user, about anticipating user difficulties, and about mathematical problem-solving.” He continued, “Most learning in the course happens from students working on projects among themselves and consulting with the professor on the solution. You learn by doing rather than by studying your notes, which puts it very much in the mainstream of recent trends in science teaching.”

“Our biggest departmental challenge is to convince students that physics isn’t an esoteric activity with no connection to what you might do professionally. Computational physics allows us to challenge that mindset.” Christian presented his program to colleagues nationwide recently at a meeting of the American Association of Physics Teachers, but Cowan was unable to attend because of the demands of medical school. Cowan also received a $500 prize check from the magazine, and Christian received an honorable mention certificate.

Davidson promotes four faculty members to full professor rank

Press Release
College Relations

Davidson’s Board of Trustees have approved promotions to full professor for four Davidson associate professors — Ruth F. Beeston of the Chemistry department, Irwin Goldstein of the Philosophy department, Sally G. McMillen of the History department, and William M. Ringle of the Anthropology/Sociology department.

Beeston, an inorganic chemist, teaches Davidson’s advanced integrated lab course for chemistry majors. The course integrates experimental techniques from various areas of the discipline, teaching students how to use many different analytical tools. Last December, the “Journal of Chemical Education” published an article on an experiment she designed for the course that helps students learn synthetic methods, NMR spectroscopy, and chromatography. For the past 14 years, Beeston has conducted research to synthesize new transition metal complexes with enhanced excited state properties, making them potentially useful for solar energy conversion. That research has been supported by grants from the National Science Foundation and American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund. It has also involved 22 students as summer lab assistants, and 13 of them have gone on to graduate school in chemistry or related fields. Beeston received her B.S. from Bucknell and Ph.D. from UNC-Chapel Hill. She joined the Davidson faculty in 1984 and was promoted to associate professor in 1990.

Goldstein studies and publishes in the areas of philosophy of mind, ethics, and philosophy of language. He is primarily interested in how consciousness is related to the brain, arguing that consciousness is not just the physical material in the brain, but is composed of non-physical properties as well. He teaches courses in philosophy of mind, ethics, humanities, and introductory philosophy. He earned his B.A. from Carleton University in Canada and received his Ph.D. from the University of Edinburgh in 1979. He came to Davidson in 1983.

McMillen specializes in Southern history, and has written books entitled “Southern Women: Black and White in the Old South” and “Motherhood in the Old South.” A new book she wrote, entitled “To Raise Up the South: Black & White Sunday Schools in the New South 1865-1915,” is scheduled for publication by Harvard University Press in 1999. She is also serving as co-editor of volume one of a two-volume series entitled “Major Problems in the History of the American South.” McMillen graduated from Wellesley College and had a career in library science before earning her Ph.D. from Duke University in 1985. She joined the Davidson faculty in 1988 and was promoted to associate professor in 1991. She teaches American history, women’s history, and Southern history.

William M. “Bill” Ringle specializes in archaeological research of ancient Mayan cultures. He has conducted annual summer field surveys of the ruins of Ek Balam in the Mexican Yucatan since 1984, usually accompanied by three or four Davidson students. His work there has been funded by grants from the National Geographic Society and National Science Foundation, and has led to published papers about the formation of urban areas and states in Mayan culture, as well as the rise of agriculture and Mayan linguistics. He has a special interest in applying computer technology to mapping the sites that he has investigated. He teaches classes in human evolution, world archaeology, Mesoamerica, and statistics, and leads his introductory archaeology class in field research at the historic Torrence House in northern Mecklenburg County. Ringle received his B.A. from Johns Hopkins University and his Ph.D. from Tulane. He came to Davidson in 1986 as assistant professor of anthropology, and was promoted to associate professor in 1992.