_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Guilt-free and delicious: A grocery store unlike any you’ve seen

By KELLY KIEFER
Staff Writer

I thought about prefacing this article with a little snippet of Rachel Carson’s “Silent Spring,” a tale of the harmful effects (ecological and health-oriented) of common fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides that are applied worldwide to the foods we consume on a daily basis. However, Carson’s book is a dark story, and I merely want to inform you of a wonderful new grocery option in Huntersville and encourage you to check it out.

Redleaf Market Natural Food and Groceries has been operating for approximately five months. Within its doors, it holds a plethora of organic foods as well as “alternative preventative health care products.” Although small in size, the market boasts a larger-than-life ideology (at least at this phase in history).

At this point, I must digress into a brief, but important history of food production. Organic food production has been around since the beginning of creation. Over time, nations have sought to improve the efficiency of food production as well as simultaneously increase agricultural output in a smaller time interval. So the search began for the miracle cure that could combat bugs and weeds while also promoting the crop to grow faster. Fortunately for the farming industry, the U.S. government had some leftover chemical warfare supplies after WWI that, with a little modification, became this cure. Unfortunately, little testing was done before planes began spraying these chemicals over trillions of acres of farmland. Only now are we realizing the repercussions of these actions. These chemicals poison our bodies and our environment.

Some not-so-fun facts:
— More than 80% of the most commonly-used pesticides today have been classified as carcinogenic by the National Academy of Sciences.
— 71% of the peach crop sampled by the FDA tested positive for pesticides within the past year.
— Nearly 1/3 of the nitrogen and 2/3 of the phosphorus in fertilizers are not absorbed by crops and become sources of regional water quality problems.
— Although many pesticides have been banned in the U.S. (remember DDT?), surpluses of these products are being shipped to countries with less stringent regulations and testing, countries we import food from.

Alarmingly enough, even with statistics such as these, agriculture continues to dump more chemicals on crops annually because of a reduced effectiveness as soils become more and more stripped of nutrients (sort of like the law of diminishing returns). Some farmers have witnessed first-hand the deleterious effects of such techniques and are slowly returning to a purer way of food production: organic farming. Simply put: no chemicals, no biogenetic engineering, no irradiation. Au naturel.

What started out as a small conscientious business organization is now rapidly growing. For years, only specialty markets carried any trace of organic foods. Now, as you may have noticed new “alternative aisles” in local grocery stores, natural food is becoming more mainstream. Redleaf Market, however, is dedicated entirely to the cause. Talking with co-owner Leslie Carlson, I realized the plausibility of an entire industry returning to sustainable agriculture practices with pressure from the consumer rather than the state. We hold a powerful voice with our dollar. Choosing to purchase food that has been grown with minimal degradation to the environment and without chemicals that are proven to be harmful to our health, we are actively protesting these practices that endanger our future. In addition, we can minimize the price gap between foods produced by conventional practices and organic practices. As of right now, organic foods are slightly more expensive. For example, free-range chicken eggs at Redleaf cost $1.99/dozen versus the traditional price of $1.36/dozen. It is only a matter of time until the consumer reverses this trend by choosing organic more and conventional products less.

With respect to the student budget, Leslie acknowledged our scant funds and the fact that we often do not cook for ourselves. She encourages us, in turn, to pressure the Commons, eating houses, and fraternities to begin the shift to more organic foods. She suggests the possibility of an organic salad bar, or perhaps free-range chicken options. At this time, switchingTo an organic lifestyle seems to be a big jump. But conscientious grocery options such as Redleaf Market are a step in the right direction. Support this business on Hwy 21 South, approximately two miles past Northcross Lanes. Even if you just buy peaches, I guarantee they will be the best you have ever tasted — after all, food is always better when you can eat it guilt-free. As an extra note, Redleaf Market also offers numerous herbal remedies. In addition, a homeopathic study group meets on the first Tuesday of every month from 7 to 9 p.m. to learn about natural remedies for minor injuries, insect bites, colds, flu, etc. Finally, just in time for the flu season, a workshop entitled Natural Help for Colds and Flu will be held October 24 at 1 p.m. All of these classes are free so check them out if you have an interest in natural healing techniques. Enjoy hot spiced Ohio apple cider all month. All students, faculty, and staff who present their Davidson I.D. will receive 10% off of their meal.

The Race for the Lucky Buckeye
By BRIAN CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

In our anticipation for the yellows and reds and browns that will soon decorate the branches of so many trees, we often overlook another beautiful and important part of fall trees, the fruits and nuts. This week’s Tree of the Week, the Buckeye, has fruit that not only looks unique but is also considered quite lucky. The Buckeye/Horsechestnut family (Aesculus spp.) is made up of 6 native and 15 species overall in North America. Of these, our campus has two, the Ohio Buckeye (Aesculus glabra) and the Bottlebrush Buckeye (Aesculus parviflora).

The Ohio Buckeye, the state tree of Ohio, is also known as the “Fetid Buckeye” and sometimes the “American Horsechestnut.” Two trees are in Hobart Park, just across from the Baker parking lot, and another is in the center of the dogwood/azalea park behind the Martin Chemistry Building. All three are noticeably small, looking more like shrubs than trees. These were planted in 1986, and like many of our arboretum's new trees, they first arrived in the mail! Yes, several nurseries nationwide ship small saplings (less than a foot tall) in moist wrappings, to be planted immediately. Steadily, they have grown higher and healthier, and one day, these trees may reach over 40 feet!

The single Bottlebrush Buckeye on campus is on the Main Street side of Cunningham and is broader and taller than the others. This species was introduced to the continent in 1785 and today is primarily ornamental, spreading broadly and reaching about 12 feet in height. Our tree was transplanted in 1988 from the UNCC Arboretum. On both types of Buckeye, notice the characteristic clusters of five leaves, which share a common point of origin. They are light green now and just beginning to turn yellow and brown. Buckeye leaves often turn brilliant orange-red, even the shade of a pumpkin. The leaves are poisonous if eaten, and have an unpleasant odor when crushed. The bark is also toxic, but was formerly used medicinally. The wood is used still for furniture, boxes, flooring, and even musical instruments.

In early May, amidst the crowded clusters of foliage, the Ohio Buckeyes develop explosions of greenish-yellow flowers. The Bottlebrush flowers later, but with red and white blooms. If you visit the Ohio Buckeyes soon, you can see the pear-shaped fruit, which contains the famous buckeyes, the seeds. They are smooth and shiny dark brown, with a lighter spot at one end. Their size and coloration remind some onlookers of a carved, wooden prosthetic eyeball. Although these seeds are poisonous to humans, hungry squirrels gather them as soon as they fall. These seeds are the subjects of much American folk-legend, said to bring luck to those who carry them. Pioneers gathered and kept buckeyes in their pockets to ward off rheumatism, a dangerous fever that brought inflammation, stiffness, and swelling to the joints and muscles. Few seeds remain, as superstitious Davidson students race against the squirrels to gather the “lucky buckeyes” in preparation for midterms and the stiff muscles and joints of cool autumn mornings. Look beyond the leaves this week and check out the fruit of the Buckeye.