12 THE DAVIDSONIAN Horoscope

_ARTS Horoscope

Libra (September 23-October 22)
Well happy Libras, just jump for joy like you have ants in your pants. After the four midterms and three
tests this week you get to go home and sleep for a few days. Make sure to lock that door
so Mommy and Daddy don’t interrupt your REM to “catch up on things.”
Lucky apple: Red Delicious—yum!

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)
Get psyched! You finally catch your crush eyeing you from across the salad bar. Just kidding, (s)he’s actually checking out
the person beside you. Come on, like anyone finds love at the Commons. Such wonderful things only happen in mystical
places where the lettuce is green.
Lucky chain that’ll trim your tresses: Fantastic Sam’s

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)
You walk into your bathroom and find all the sinks plugged up and everyone’s shower buckets floating on about a
foot of water. Just another attack of the Wet Bandits. No wait, that’s Home Alone. Can you believe Macaulay Culkin’s
married?
Lucky Main Street store that stays open past 6 pm: none

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)
Don’t worry about getting a bad reputation because of what happened last weekend, the Davidsonian knows the truth. You’re not
a player, you just crush a lot.
Lucky pick-up line: “Your father must be a terrorist, ‘cuz you're the bomb.”

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)
Remember that really funny article you were going to write about Commons, the Union Cafe, and how much you dislike
(a. sophomores, b. freshmen, c. Care Bears)? You suddenly decide that penning your thoughts would actually be a bad, bad
idea.
Lucky twisted childhood lie: Tooth Fairy

Pisces (February 19-March 20)
Frankly, your week just isn’t going to be that great. I mean, you were born under the sign of a
fish, and fish smell really bad. Perhaps you can create something good out of this horrible situation. Buy only dolphin-safe
tuna, you ocean warrior, you.
Lucky unfinished exit 25 eatery: Atlanta Bread Company

Aries (March 21-April 19)
You ride that treasured ten-speed all the way to BB&T to cash a check and—what? No lollipops? You demand that
the teller find a blow-pop immediately, preferably sour apple, or she can kiss all the “easy ways to cyberbank” pamphlets
goodbye.
Lucky nauseating Celine Dion tune: “My Heart Will Go On” and “It’s All Coming Back to Me” (tie)

Taurus (April 20-May 20)
You head to the Soda Shop, one place with the decency to still offer Vanilla Cokes, only to have tragedy
befall you. Not only do you get massive splinters in your rear end from those darned wooden booths, your dining
partner insists on pointing out every item of Davidson memorabilia on the walls.
Lucky challenging board game: Scrabble (deluxe edition)

Gemini (May 21-June 20)
This week is going to be your best yet. You will ace all of your midterms and papers. Not only
will you get lots of email (no forwards), but you receive a package every single day. And why not? You
deserve it, Gemini. You always were my favorite.
Lucky Point (as in, Wilson’s Fourteen): eight

Cancer (June 21-July 22)
You pull your seventh all-nighter in a row. First of all, does the word “skim” mean anything to you other
than “watery-looking milk”? You can always read the stuff the night before the review. Overachievers like you make everyone else
sick.
Lucky early nineties electronic pastime: Duck Hunt

Leo (July 23-August 22)
In need of a late-night snack? Hit the Cafe for one of those new soft pretzels. Cholesterol free, fat free,
taste free. On second thought, maybe you should just stick with everyone’s favorite Teddy Grahams, or animal crackers in the
special edition box from last Christmas. Aren’t holidays the best?
Lucky color: khaki

Virgo (August 23-September 22)
Marvel at the stars that have magically appeared at the same time as that crisp fall breeze. Take time to
breathe in life as you walk the brick paths and gaze atThe moon, my friend. Just be careful not to
fall into one of those neat new trenches popping up (or down) all over campus. Are we getting ready for
combat? Lucky Cosmic Lip Smacker Flavor: Martian Mallow.

The fervor with which you began the semester begins to waver as...

LIVING TUESDAY, OCT 6, 1998

Guster and Train to rock Johnston Gym on the Ides of October

By Kirk Willingham and Jenny Nolan
Staff Writers

People often ask the band Guster:
“Was that really Ryan I spotted in the Hanson video, ‘Where’s the Love?’”
“Did John Popper really come out and play with y’all on one of your HORDE tour dates?”
“Did you really play a concert in the backyard of one of your lunatic fans this summer?”

Many more questions will be answered when Guster brings their self-proclaimed “wuss-rock stylings” to Johnston Gym on October 15. Ryan
Miller (guitar/vocals), Adam Gardner (guitar/vocals), and Brian Rosenworcel (bongos/percussion) comprise this interesting trio of musicians from Boston, MA. With no
traditional rhythm section (drums and bass), they distinguish their sound from that of other neo-hippie rock bands. Formed at their
alma mater, Tufts University, Guster has been touring non-stop since 1993. Their live performances have been described as “an aerobic
workout for band and crowd members, a Guster show is like bungee jumping — something that everyone should experience at
least once, because anything can happen.” But just don’t confuse them with Phish or the Dead. Although they have a
dedicated fan base like each of these bands, their shows are not filled with long, jammed-out songs. Instead, they play
all of their songs with an air of humility with humorous interjections in between. People keep coming back for more,
to experience the unexpected.

The combination of Guster’s live act, great pop melodies, and fan allegiance made major record labels take notice. The Washington
Post acclaims the band for their “bouncy tunes and slightly exotic rhythm accents.” The independently released 1994 debut album, Parachute,
has sold over 20,000 copies. Earlier this year they signed with Sire Records and released their major label debut, Goldfly,
in April. Since then, their first single, “Airport Song,” has been heard frequently on modern rock stations across the country
including 106.5 WEND. Through their hard work, they have been able to play on this summer’s HORDE tour and open
for Widespread Panic. Guster is set to appear on “Late Night with Conan O’Brien” in early December.

Opening for Guster will be the San Francisco quintet, Train. In February, they released their self-titled debut album on AWARE
Records after also contributing two songs to the AWARE 5 Compilation (which has previously featured such acts as Guster, Hootie
& the Blowfish, Better Than Ezra, Edwin McCain, and Jackopierce). Soon thereafter, modern rock and top 40 stations across the
country began to pick up their first single, “Meet Virginia.” Come early to check them out and hope that they
play their amazing cover of Led Zeppelin’s “Ramble On.”

The show will take place on Thursday, October 15 and will start at 9:30 p.m. in Johnston Gym. It is
a free show for Davidson students, faculty, and staff. Tickets for the general public will be $5 and can be
bought at the door. This show is brought to you by the DC Union Intimate Performances Committee, Concert Committee, and
F-CREW. Also, listen for music from Guster and Train throughout the Union over the next week, leading up to the
show.

Oh, and the answers to those questions at the beginning? Yes, yes, and yes.

Kirk Willingham is the Concert Committee Chair and Jenny Nolan is the Intimate Performances Committee Chair.

Gloria Steinem
“The Politics of Sexuality”
Thursday, October 22 at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium
2 free tickets per College I.D. October 5th-9th, 14th-16th
Tickets open to the public October 19th-22nd
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE COLLEGE UNION TICKET OFFICE (*2135) FROM 2:30 TO 5:30 P.M.
