DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN
“The World’s Foremost College Weekly”
Established 1914

Top Guns, The few and the proud trek to UNCC.
NEWS 4

Strip tease. FLAG Fashion Show shows skin.
A&L 11

She’d dine on children, too. Diversity through the eyes of a trustee.
OPINIONS 6

Shatas shares. Q&A with Asst. Head Coach.
SPORTS 15

Patricia Fuller speaks about public art at VAC lecture
By Amanda L. Mordavsky
Staff Writer

On Thursday, Nov. 5, the small lecture hall of Davidson’s Visual Arts Center filled up as the time approached 7:00 p.m. Students, faculty, and townspeople alike gathered at the Belk Visual Arts Center to hear Patricia Fuller speak about public art on college and university campuses. In an effort to discuss ways to both modernize and beautify Davidson’s campus, Fuller spoke about the history of public art, as well as current campuses which have accepted this art form.

Gallery Director Perry Nesbitt began the evening by introducing Fuller and her extensive resume. Currently, Fuller is an independent consultant for Public Art design projects. In the past, she has served as curator for the “Percent for Art” project at MIT and worked on a public art project for Harvard. She has also served as a consultant for the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta and the North Carolina Museum of Art and was the coordinator for the National Endowment of Arts in Washington, D.C.

Fuller’s presentation began with a brief history of public art in the United States. Although public art is quite popular in European and Asian nations, the United States did not begin to explore public art until the post-World War II era. Beginning in the 1950s and 1960s, the United States began to recognize the need for the urban development of art. The architecture that began to emerge was a combination of abstract art with modern architecture, creating the first real public art displays. To further help the public art movement, the government passed the “Percent for Art” program in 1968. This program allots a percentage of the funds for constructing federal buildings to create public art. Since the creation of this program, public art has become a unique and vital part of college campuses and federal land.

Fuller further explained the importance of public art on college campuses: “Ideally, the university already has elements in place — a climate of investigation and interrogation, involving changing, growing, and expressing — a fertile place to explore ideas.” Fuller gave examples of colleges and universities that have fully utilized their resources for public art, including Clemson, MIT, and the University of California San Diego at La Jolla. Fuller showed slides from all these campuses, explaining the drastic change in the campus with the addition of public art throughout the campus.

Although there has been some criticism of public art, most people have accepted its importance to the appearance and atmosphere of the college campus. According to Fuller, those who do criticize public art tend to come full circle with their views and begin to support public art within a few years. If you are interested in supporting public art at Davidson, contact Gallery Director Perry Nesbitt at the Visual Arts Center.

Patricia Fuller addresses a crowd of students and faculty on public art. Public art is the term referring to outdoor sculptures and other art forms that are publicly displayed.
Sallie McMurray

Students go ‘Into the Streets’
By Laura McCandlish
Staff Writer

As Davidson celebrates Into the Streets this week, members of the college community are asking themselves, “What can I do?” Into the Streets is a national program designed to introduce students...to meaningful community service. Its goal is not only to encourage one-time service opportunities but also to funnel students into existing service projects. Along with Tommy Ross '99, Soosan Calhoun '00 is also serving as a program co-chair. In addition to the co-chairs, there are seven other core members, called “stars,” who each have a team that has planned service and enrichment activities. The seven stars are Ida Wainschel '01, John Bell '99, Brian Deaton '01, Clark Scalera '01, Ann Culp '00, Katie Keith '00, and Dalia Abu-Dayyeh '01. In addition, mathematics professor Dr. Robert Whitton serves as a faculty star this year. Calhoun said, “This year, our main goals were to have more hands-on service activities and to involve a more diverse group as far as students, faculty, and community members. We want athletes, Patterson Court-goers, independents, basically everyone to get involved.”

In respect to Into the Streets' purpose, Ross said, “Into the Streets is a week-long community service drive designed to involve as many people as possible in at least one meaningful service experience, with the hope that this will lead to a long-lasting commitment to community service. We want to show people that service, aside from being fulfilling and purposeful, is really just a lot of fun.”

Into the Streets began Saturday morning with a kick-off breakfast and will continue through this Sunday, with a bonfire and closing ceremonies to conclude the week. Volunteer opportunities available during the week include working at the Ada Jenkins Center or the Arosa House, cleaning up a Lake Norman island, or participating in a variety of organized service events such as Habitat for Humanity, the CROP Walk, and the Kannapolis YMCA Field Day. On Monday night, Dave Mullinnex, from the Urban Ministry Center in Charlotte, gave a talk entitled “Who is Your Neighbor,” which discussed homelessness in this area. Colman McCarthy, a Washington Post columnist and the director/founder of the Center for Teaching Peace, will speak on Wednesday about “How to Radicalize Your Life.” The event, co-sponsored by Dean Rusk and the Union Speakers Committee, includes informal discussion from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in the Union Homeroom and a lecture at 8 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Thursday is Ben and Jerry’s Project Life Day, during which a portion of the proceeds from all ice cream sold goes toward Project Life. On Friday night, Michael Stoops, from the National Coalition for the Homeless, will speak in the Union at 9 p.m. Then at midnight, a box sleepout will be held on Chambers Lawn, as students will form a drum circle and sleep in boxes as the homeless would. Stoops plans to bring real homeless people for the event, so they can demonstrate to students a typical night for someone who is homeless.

Ross’s hope for the week is twofold: “We hope that students who are not currently involved will see how meaningful service can be and that those already involved can come out for a week and help us make a huge difference in the community.” Into the Streets t-shirts, designed by senior Jenny Nolan, are being sold this week for $10. The back of the shirts summarizes the theme of the week. It quotes Mother Teresa: “Love cannot remain by itself. It has no meaning. Love must be put into action, and that action is service.”

This year’s pr is “7 eran eae ae OP-ED Cecccvccccereceesevecceccccecceeseoceeee 6 Permit #1 rate o the S s ef- : Tee ee | ARES dt LIVING \..i...c.s600000 oe) Davidson, NC 28036 that, but it basically RNY GG od ES ESR flopped,” said Into the Streets student co-chair Ross. First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid