THE DAVIDSONIAN

By: LAURA CRAVER
Staff Writer

A group of approximately 45 students and other members of the Davidson community gathered Tuesday night in the 900 Room to discuss the “Images of Women” with a panel of faculty members who have had personal experiences with the changing roles of women. The panel consisted of four females and two males: Brenda Flanagan, Suzanne Churchill, Elizabeth Mills, Anthony Abbott (all of the English department), Mark Csikszentmihalyi (Religion), and Rosemary Zumwalt (Anthropology). The speakers, moderated by Flanagan, presented their own perspectives on the feminist movement and the effects feminism has had on their lives. The speakers and audience then moved into a discussion of the modern images of women, using clips from the popular television shows “Ally McBeal” and “Felicity” as examples.

All of the speakers agreed that feminism is, at its roots, a search for justice. As stated by Zumwalt, “Feminism was not just about liberating women but also opening opportunities for men.” Although she views herself as a child of the ‘60s, Zumwalt recognized the socialization she underwent growing up in the ‘50s that still emphasized traditional gender roles. “Feminism,” said Zumwalt, “brought me where I am today, doing the thing I love.” While succeeding in her anthropology career, Zumwalt stresses the error in the interpretation of feminism as “superwoman.” “Liberated does not mean doing everything terrifically,” said Zumwalt. “It can mean doing some things not so well as others or not doing them at all.”

Abbott, who witnessed the beginnings of coeducation at Davidson, credited Davidson’s 14th President Samuel Spencer with the initial movements toward coeducation. Spencer, according to Abbott, knew that single-sex education would be detrimental to Davidson, as well as similar institutions, in the future. The first steps toward full integration included a junior year exchange program between Davidson and several women’s schools such as Hollins College. “The idea of this,” said Abbott, “was to get Davidson used to having women.” Once Davidson began educating women on a regular basis, Abbott remembers the lack of women faculty members. There was a “clear agenda” to find women faculty members who could serve as role models. Abbott helped recruit current Davidson professors Cynthia Lewis, Mills, and others. Today, Abbott notes, the English department consists of seven women and seven men.

Mills, who found herself “intellectually starving,” expressed her gratitude to feminism and coeducation for “saving [her] life.” Recruited by Abbott, Mills has served Davidson women and men as both teacher and role model. Mills also emphasized the “justice” definition of feminism and linked the feminist movement to other justice-seeking movements. However, Mills finds the disdain for the word “feminist” in contemporary society puzzling. “To me, ‘feminist’ is a good word,” said Dr. Mills, “I don’t understand the objection to the word.” For Mills, feminism opened opportunities for men and women, and helped put leading women on college campuses.

As the father of a young girl, Csikszentmihalyi sees feminism as a positive attitude that he hopes his daughter will nurture. Although Csikszentmihalyi’s generation did not necessarily see the beginnings of the modern feminist movement, he certainly sees the movement’s effects in today’s society. Csikszentmihalyi also discussed the current state of gender issues at Davidson, and why they may pose a concern for young feminists. In particular, Csikszentmihalyi questioned the role of eating houses and fraternities and the strength of campus conservative groups in “perpetuating traditional gender roles for men and women.” He also expressed his concern that there exists at Davidson an “anti-intellectual atmosphere at times.” Csikszentmihalyi sees a tendency in students to pretend to be non-achievers and not articulate themselves well. He sees this as coming, in part, from the entertainment media. “‘Felicity,’” said Csikszentmihalyi, referring to the popular show about a college freshman, “may be the only four-syllable word used in the whole show.”

Churchill said that she did not have her “feminist awakening until after graduation.” Churchill, who never saw any inequality at Middlebury during the ‘80s, was surprised by the differing treatment she and her husband received when searching for jobs after graduation. Despite her academic honors and relevant work experience, Churchill was told to market her typing skills instead. “They would never have told a man to do that,” said Churchill. Later, when she went to graduate school she began to confront the “inner demons” that surfaced in her feminist consciousness. She began to question whether the love she had for certain poets was the result of her education or society. Like the other speakers, Churchill also commented on the difficulty of balancing a family and a career, and reconciling her own socially-conditioned expectations of a good mother.

The speakers and audience then viewed clips from both “Ally McBeal” and “Felicity.” The discussion that followed ranged from questions and comments about sexuality in theworkplace to the consensus that very few women are ever able “to have it all.” Churchill, who is busy balancing a family and demanding career, commented that Ally McBeal may represent more of a “true woman who can’t have it all” rather than just the “heterosexual male’s fantasy of a feminist.” At the end of the discussion, Flanagan summarized the comments of the panel and stressed the need for all parts of the feminist movement to work together. “This is the beginning dialogue,” said Flanagan, “of feminism and ‘manism’ at Davidson.”

Glen speaks on the importance of political involvement
By Kets HETHERINGTON
Staff Writer

On Sunday, Oct. 18 at 7:30 p.m., Dyln Glenn ’91 spoke about his experience in conservative politics and the importance of being involved politically, whether one is voting for candidates, running for office, or helping to campaign. The Young Republicans, the Union Speaker Committee, the Political Science department, the Dean of Students Office, and the Black Student Coalition all sponsored Glenn’s appearance.

Glenn spent last year campaigning for the Republican nomination in Georgia’s ninth district. Glenn, an African American, lost in his bid for the G.O.P. nomination by just 723 votes; neither a black nor white Republican has ever won in Georgia’s ninth district. In his talk that lasted slightly over one hour, Glenn hinted at the fact that he will be returning to the political arena; and responding to the question of just when, Glenn said, “The game of politics is all about the right timing.”

Following Glenn’s defeat, he started a venture capital firm of which he is presently the chief executive officer. Through the firm, Glenn hopes to bring more solid jobs to southern Georgia, which has been ranked among the nation’s ten most impoverished regions. Approximately one-third of Glenn’s talk was a question-and-answer period. When asked what he would do differently if he could rerun his past campaign, Glenn responded that he would run the race exactly the same and that he would not change a single thing.

Louis Ortmayer, a current Davidson professor of political science who taught Glenn, made clear in an interview that several overwhelming challenges plagued Glenn’s race from its conception. The first factor was the ninth district itself, which Ortmayer feels was “not the right contest for Dyln, if he really wanted to win.” Ortmayer, while leading the “Davidson in Washington Program” last summer, met with several senior editors of “Politics in America,” one of several publications by Congressional Quarterly. The editors were already detecting problems in the progression of Glenn’s campaign. Problems included name recognition and Glenn’s not holding strictly to the party’s line.

Glenn has poor name recognition in his home state because he spent many summers while a student at Davidson in Washington D.C. and has worked there since his graduation from college. Glenn has held jobs in the Bush White House and various staff positions on Capitol Hill. Ortmayer suggested that other problems included that, although Glenn sought the Republican nomination, he has acted at times as if he were a Democrat through his advocating big government and liberal government job retraining programs for welfare recipients.

Jason Layman speculated, “Perhaps if Glenn had cut himself loose from the standard political tradition in a more radical way, he would have been more successful.” However, like Ortmayer, Layman, who refers to Glenn as “a Republican of the ‘90s,” believes Glenn’s recent loss extends deeper than just that of his wavering political affiliation. The district Glenn chose too seemed unwise in Layman’s opinion for a candidate with Glenn’s experience. Layman pointed to Glenn’s lack of experience as a reason for Glenn’s loss. “But what really impresses me,” said Layman, “is that Glenn is now trying to implement in the private sector what he proposed to the people on the campaign trail. This practical application of his ideas will make him a stronger candidate.”

After discussing Glenn’s failed candidacy, Ortmayer suggested that Glenn might have seen victory as being a very distant possibility but ran to build name recognition. “Greater name recognition might help Glenn get a political appointment in Washington, D.C., if the Republicans win the presidency in 2000,” Ortmayer said, “which is where I really see Dyln.”

GOOD
Yes, you can still get your yearbooks. Just come by the 900 Room on Thursday between 9:30 p.m. and 12 a.m. Oh, yeah, and unless you’ve already paid, bring ten bucks.

WEEKLY INCOME processing mail for national company! Free supplies, postage! No selling! Bonuses! Start immediately! Genuine opportunity! Please rush Long Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope to:
MPC, SUITE 391
2045 Mt. Zion Rd
MORROW, GA 30260