8 __ THE DAVIDSONIAN _ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1998

Closing the buildings on campus from 1-6 a.m.: Darkness soon to envelope our buildings

Another building faces closure from one to six a.m. As if the news of closing Chambers did not strike a nerve, I have recently learned that the VAC (for those of you not familiar with this affectionate term, the Visual Arts Center) has also made it on the list of buildings to be locked-off from students between the hours of one and six. I feel personally attacked with this most recent news. The news of Chambers closing was bad enough (many nights have been spent writing papers for classes related to my major in English), but since I am also a Studio Art major, I rely on the art facilities that can only be found in that building.

I believe I can safely say that anybody that has had a class at the VAC (Art History or Studio) has been in that building during the hours of one and six. I know that many — if not all — of the Art Majors (History and Studio) spend a good deal of the wee hours in the morning there. I know this because I see them there. Why allow Studio Art Majors the privilege of having a studio if they cannot have access to their work on a 24-hour basis? What will the etching and lithography students do when the doomed closing hour comes around and they have not yet finished their work? What about the Art History Majors who want to study slides? How about the sculpture students as well as majors who need to utilize the machines that only exist in this one area on campus?

To say that nobody uses the building between the hours of one and six is to admit that you have not been there yourself during those hours, because if you had, you would know that the VAC remains humming with activity. One of the most amazing items about Davidson, when I looked at schools and up until recently, centered on the fact that many of the buildings had 24-hour accessibility. I would like the people wielding these decisions to listen to the student voices that are rising in opposition to this proposal. I want these same administrators to visit Chambers the night before a review or paper due date and also to swing by the VAC the night before the Art History Comps, or the days before a painting, drawing, etching, lithograph, or sculpture assignment is due.

I think it is a travesty that this unique quality of our school lies on the cutting board and may soon be severed by the knife of the administration. I understand that thousands of dollars could be saved by closing these buildings, but may I ask where this money will be going and at what cost?

Hear, little froshie

Well, at first it wasn’t too bad. I mean, I could stomach it. It was a little annoying but kinda cute in its own way. But I just can’t deal anymore. You hear me? I JUST CAN’T TAKE IT ANYMORE! I am, of course, referring to some of the opinion columns in this fine publication.

First of all, please learn how to edit. You do not need to write, nor do we desire to read, half a page of your philosophies on life. Second, hometown honeys are great. We’re happy for you, but it doesn’t add anything to our ongoing Seven Degrees of Davidson Game. Third, you have been here for less time than it takes to find a non-Baker parking spot. You are not the definitive authority on Davidson. Fourth, ripping on Commons is wrong. Yes, I’m sure the utensils amuse you (how do you think we pick out frosh so easily?), but instead, focus your attentions on the massive amounts of time you will spend in conversations here. By the way, moving food comments went out of style with grade B 80s movies. Furthermore, you will come to appreciate the lighting after consecutive all-nighters, weekend mornings and the tuition hike that adding track lighting would incur.

Fifth, tradition is probably one of the reasons you (and perhaps your parents) decided to come to Davidson. So we call them reviews. To quote Crabbie, “DON’T SCREW WITH MY SCHOOL.” The fact that tests are called reviews makes Davidson all the more endearing and absolutely impossible to explain to anyone back home. Sixth, catch the clue bus. Scott Buchanan and Aaron Sundstrom’s topics last week were the Million Youth March and hooking up in a lofted bed. Sketchy, yes, but definitely original. Hmmm, baseball, cats, “dawgs”, and cars — I think they’ve been done before.

Upperclassmen, I think it’s about time we as a whole contributed more to the campus voice. Our apathy has caused chunks of this paper to be filled with articles by freshmen when we comprise 75 percent of this student body. College newspapers are traditionally understaffed and overworked, but if everyone would take a little time and contribute something occasionally, there would be no blank spaces and poor Seth Davis wouldn’t have to write an article on every sports team every week. Davidson existed for 140 years before the incoming class arrived. We don’t need them implementing every idea that worked as student body president in high school.

With that thought in mind, this sexy “Corvette” is leaving you boys with your hometown honeys, Sega Systems, Dodge Ram trucks, and revolutionary ideologies in the dust.

What’s going on here?

“Club cars” are taking over our campus. Demand your plugs.

Who’s better than you? ... Nobody! Go crazy. Let it all hang out. It’s the only way to go. The sand in the hourglass is running out. You'll regret not asking that girl in the sundress to dance with you. So ask her. Now. There is no better time. What are you waiting for? Spend your time in a worthy cause. But don’t be afraid to spend a Saturday afternoon drinking beer and playing wiffleball with your friends. Play as much as you work. They are still around, and don’t forget about the girl in the sundress. She may like you. Be confident. Be a leader, not a follower. Realize you have the potential to change things and impact someone in a positive fashion. Be proud of who you are. Call your mom. She loves you and most likely misses you dearly. Take chances. Try new things. Don’t accept the status quo and don’tHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Regard those who defy your aspirations. Endure through the tough times. Realize they will pass and you will be a stronger person when they do. Dance. You don’t look stupid. It’s the guy with his back against the wall making fun of you who looks foolish. Read. Exercise your mind. Learn how it was done back in the day. Don’t complain. Your action is the only remedy for a problem. Spend time by yourself on occasion. Step outside of yourself and realize how much people give to you. Realize, also, how much you have and what you can give to others. Lastly, don’t forget to ask the girl in the sundress to dance. Trust me on this one. She may like you.

Honoring Women: In response to Adelaide K. Leitzel

Criticizing the plans to commemorate Davidson’s admitting women, she states, “Steinem’s contributions to the Davidson community are unclear to me; she did not open Davidson to women.” She posits that Steinem’s presence is perhaps intended to evoke the era in which Davidson was opened to women but suggests Sandra Day O’Connor or Jeanne Kirkpatrick, “productive, influential ladies,” would be better choices. First of all, I fail to see how Sandra Day O’Connor or Jeanne Kirkpatrick are any more intimately entwined with Davidson’s history than Gloria Steinem. Second, while one may say many things about Gloria Steinem, regardless of how one feels towards her work and politics, one cannot say she has not been productive or influential. In 1971, Ms. magazine made its debut as an insert in New York magazine. Steinem was its co-founder and editor and went on to become a leading journalist and media personality for the “Second Wave” of feminists. Leitzel continues, saying that “Kirkpatrick and O’Connor were not concerned with the bedroom but with the ballot box.” I’m not entirely sure what she means by this statement. While both of these women did indeed have to wrangle for votes in their early political careers, the positions they held with most fame, that of Ambassador and Supreme Court Justice, respectively, were appointments. Furthermore, a life in politics does not necessarily exclude a concern with the politics of the bedroom. Sandra Day O’Connor has been a swing vote on abortion, emphatically a matter of the bedroom. Equally confusing is Leitzel’s belittling of FLAG’s planned program, saying “the constituency of the Friends of Lesbians and Gays reception is determined by the bedroom, not the boardroom.” In dealing with women’s issues, we simply must deal with issues of sex. The topic of sex includes gender, sexual orientation, and (horrors!) the bedroom. Leitzel’s problem with the all-women acting group seems to stem from the fact that it is sponsored by an organization whose “constituency” — gays, lesbians, bisexuals, and transsexuals — is unimportant to the festivities, being determined by the bedroom, not the boardroom. Leitzel repeatedly expresses her concern for how women are viewed. This concern is undercut, however, by her numerous referrals to herself and her classmates as “girls.” Her discrimination between matters of the bedroom and the ballot box fails to acknowledge that women have been/are oppressed in both the public and the private sphere. Just as women have not always been able to vote or attend college, neither have women always had access to birth control or even the right to divorce. It hardly makes sense to glorify only women who have had success in the public political sphere when matters of private freedom are equally important.

Club cars storming the campus

How many times have you been innocently walking along, only to have to dive out of the way of a physical plant golf cart that’s barreling your way? I’m serious; these things come out of nowhere, tearing around corners and rumbling off after fouling your airspace. And they’re loud! Like a lawn mower’s just rolled over your head. Funny, anyone working near a lawn mower wears ear protection, but we’re expected to tolerate this noise. Shouldn’t the Davidson College Police show us that they’re really interested in our personal safety and go after those speed demons in their club cars? Maybe the College should take advantage of the situation. I mean, what are you thinking, paying $80 to keep your car on campus. Hell, sell your car. Stop paying insurance. Go the cheaper, easier route and get a golf cart. You can park anywhere you want to. You can drive your lazy ass to class. Investigate your options. And don’t let Davidson College drive all over you.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.