__THE DAVIDSONIAN__

© LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Community requires giving

To the Editors:

As the last act of his SGA presidency, Buster Burk delivered a State of the School Address Tuesday night in
the Morrison Room. In an ironic and sad, yet expected, twist, Buster spoke to a scant crowd of roughly 30
people. Give or take, I would say 20 of those were students in some way affiliated with the SGA, five
were administrators, and the remaining five were students who simply showed an interest in what an outgoing student body president
had to say after a year of serving the school in such a vital capacity.

Burk’s primary message — that the only thing that can or will ever make a change around here is individual
involvement and initiative — was, is, and always will be an excellent one. But judging from the size of the
crowd, one could only applaud Buster’s noble idea before dismissing it as a pipe dream at best, an impossibility at
worst. Buster, of course, is entirely correct in his assertion — personal motivation is the engine of society, small or
large. And this does not just apply to Davidson. On the contrary, it’s the only way anything anywhere ever gets
done. But there is only so much a small group of committed individuals working with limited manpower can accomplish. No
matter how driven.

I have the utmost respect for Buster, for Union Board President Matthew Hobbie, for anyone here who tackles such time-consuming
extracurricular positions with dedication, passion, and flair. When I was interviewing Matthew for the piece I wrote on Buster in
last week’s paper, he said something that I believe everybody should hear: “You can do amazing things with SGA,” he
said. “But it almost entirely depends on the personal initiative of an individual. When you have a position in the
SGA, you’re given an opportunity. It’s your responsibility, your duty to take that opportunity.”

I'd like to make one modification to Matthew’s statement: Change every “SGA” to “Davidson College.” Certainly, you are here to
learn, to absorb, to reap the benefits this institution has to offer. But being a member of a community —
especially a small community like Davidson — involves giving as well. You are all members of this community. Consider Buster’s
message, and act upon it.

Michael J. Kruse

Searching for a week with words concerning something that I struggled with all last semester and have continued to struggle
with this semester — religion and faith in a “greater being.” Although I have thought much about religion this year,
I have yet to write about it formally, either for myself or for anyone else. I am going to now.

On Tuesday night, I had a probing and revelatory religious conversation with a guy on my hall, who will remain
anonymous for no other reason than respect. The next morning, with “deep” thoughts still in my head, I wrote a
close friend of mine, continuing our ongoing discussion about the path our lives are taking and how religion, faith, and
belief tie into those.same lives, those same actions, those same decisions. Now, the ongoing theme of my columns is, well
— how do I say? — confusion. And to quote Jerry Seinfeld out of context, “not that there’s anything wrong
with that.” But sometimes that confusion is a problem. I have been empowered, through genes, or luck, or fate, with
the sometimes beneficial, sometimes nagging, but always present, abilities to question, to discern, and to present ideas. I went through
high school being told to doubt, to test, and not to take anything, from a chemical reaction to Shakespeare’s words,
for granted. I must not believe anything, or in anything. And last semester, at my own choosing, I found myself
at a liberal arts college instilling the same academic ideals in me that my high school teachers did — back
up and prove everything — every argument in an essay, every statement in class. And if you cannot, then either
don’t say it, or don’t use it.

I was brought up in the Episcopal church and confirmed several years ago. I have no regrets for the fellowship,
nor appreciation for religion that I gained from 18 years of early Sunday mornings, Morning Prayer, and Holy Eucharist. But
was I ever given the ability to question faith in God or to be able to establish what I believe
for myself? Was this ever touched upon? Hardly. This is not to say that eight-year-old kids know or can know
what they believe or have faith in. They believe, for the most part, what they see on television and what
they are told to believe, just as I was. That is the parent’s job — to instill morals and values
in a young man or woman — morals and values that those same children will carry with them into adulthood
and hopefully pass on to their own children. I think my family accomplished its goal. But at what cost? Confusion.

And now what do I have? A lack of faith, due in part to earlier inability to question belief, due
in part to the idea that has been “preached” to me for five years now — question that which you
cannot prove or support — and due in part to where I am in life at this moment, a time
where I have the ability to question everything around me. I can’t reconcile that. Ultimately, I am going to take
an easy way out — again. I am not saying that I do not believe in God. I am saying
that I do not know what I believe or have faith in, beyond myself. I have to find “answers” for
myself. None can be provided for me. I hope before I die, I can say that I have the answers
I desire — the faith and belief I crave. It isn’t confusing. It’s daunting, and God knows, frustrating.

A Little Rain Must Fall.

SO, JACKS, WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE A.SUPERMAN THEORY?
