“It’s a great day to be a Wildcat.”

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

It’s not uncommon around the Davidson College athletic scene to hear someone relish, “It’s a great day to be a Wildcat.” On Saturday, that expression had some special meaning in the hearts of Davidson football fans. The Wildcats improved their record to an impressive 5-2 while defeating Randolph-Macon in convincing fashion to deliver a thrilling homecoming victory for the thousands of students, parents, alumni, and friends on campus this weekend.

The ‘Cats' recent history against this Randolph-Macon team has been anything but pleasant. The Yellow Jackets have defeated the ‘Cats in five straight seasons, including three last-minute come-from-behind victories. Last year, Randolph-Macon converted a touchdown and two-point conversion with 35 seconds left for a seven-point victory. The year before, R-MC scored 24 points in the fourth quarter to claim a 31-24 victory. But this year was a different story. Randolph-Macon led 10-7 at the half, but the ‘Cats stung the Yellow Jackets with three second-half touchdowns to win 30-16.

At the Helm

It must have been a wonderful day for Davidson coach Tim Landis. The victory against the Yellow Jackets puts his team at 5-2 with 3 games left in the regular season. And, Landis posted his first-ever win against his Alma Mater, Randolph-Macon.

“I don’t remember when the last time we were 5-2 was,” Landis said. “It was probably pretty far back. I’m ecstatic. We wanted to come out today and take my personal views of wanting to beat your Alma Mater and put those aside and focus on winning the next game—that game just happened to be against Randolph-Macon.”

Landis was a two-sport star athlete for the Yellow Jackets in the 1980s. On the football field, Landis was selected as a first-team all-ODAC quarterback. On the baseball diamond, Landis set school records for career pitching victories (22) and shutouts (5).

In 101 seasons, Davidson has never had a team win 8 games, and only three times in that century-long span has a Wildcat team accumulated 7 wins. In fact, only 6 Wildcat teams have posted winning seasons in the past forty years. Landis has coached two of them.

The Scoring

The Yellow Jackets scored first, on a 3-yard pass from freshman quarterback Patrick Bates to Clint Sullivan. Bates, filling in for injured junior quarterback Brian Partlow, set a school record last week with 61 pass attempts. Kevin Cherwa kicked the PAT for Randolph-Macon, giving the Yellow Jackets a 7-0 lead with 8:44 in the 1st.

Davidson received the kick-off and answered with an 8-play 71-yard scoring drive. The option was running like clockwork. Three consecutive plays racked up 47 yards: a 13-yard option left by Crawford, a 26-yard option right by Bryan Kern, and a 9-yard keeper to the left off the option by quarterback Tommy Dugan. The drive ended with an 11-yard touchdown run by Corey Crawford—the slick-footed sophomore sidestepped one tackler, hurdled another, and lunged for the corner of the end zone to score. A PAT by Brian Langley tied the game 7-7.

But Randolph-Macon’s Cherwa knocked through a 34-yard field goal with a minute left in the second half, and the Yellow Jackets went to the locker room with a 3-point lead.

The Wildcats opened the second half with a bang. Linebacker Wes Thornton scooped up a Randolph-Macon fumble and returned it to the 18-yard line. Four plays later, the ‘Cats scored on a 3-yard touchdown run by Dugan. Langley added another PAT, giving the ‘Cats a 14-10 lead.

Randolph-Macon answered with their final scoring drive of the game, going 70 yards on 13 plays to take a 16-14 lead. It was Davidson from then on out. Crawford took the kick-off back 29 yards to Davidson’s 35. The ‘Cats marched downfield, ending with a spectacular catch by Roland Williams: Dugan lofted the ball into the left side of the end zone, and a short throw was deflected by the Randolph-Macon defender. But the ball came down into the hands of the ‘Cat receiver for a 36-yard touchdown pass and a 20-16 lead. Marcus McFadden extended the lead to six with a two-point conversion reception.

Davidson and Randolph-Macon exchanged defensive stops and punts for about the next fifteen minutes of play. Davidson punter Jeremiah Parvin earned praise for helping to keep the ‘Cats in the game by dropping two key punts inside Randolph-Macon’s ten-yard line. The Wildcats scored one more time, on a 46-yard touchdown pass from Dugan to Williams.

“It was supposed to be a slant,” explained Williams, “but I saw the safety rolled up, so I ran deep and Tommy saw me and we connected. When I caught it I knew it was a touchdown ‘cause there was nobody back there.”

Much of the credit for today’s offensive performance belongs to the Wildcats offensive line, including starting center Matt Berry, guards Jerry Saunders and Jamel Wynn, and tackles Brian McGee and Rowan Driscoll. On the last touchdown pass to Williams, Dugan must have spent six seconds in the pocket watching the play develop, before motioning to Williams to go deep and getting off a picture-perfect pass. Through all this time not a defender came within spitting distance of the Wildcat quarterback.

Landis praised his blockers, “The offensive line really has improved immensely. We’ve got some young guys out there, and they’re not real big. We run a lot of option, so they have to be quick and smart. They did a great job today.”a very complex offense: they’re a Wildcat. We’re busy learning our runs, and we’re asking them to pass-block too. They really came on strong last week against Methodist—that was a big, physical football team. Our guys held their own, and we really played well. They’re coming around really, really well.”

The Wildcat defense also came through with a stunning game. Defensive coordinator Tripp Merritt had to prepare his squad for the 12th-ranked passing offense in the nation. The Yellow Jackets are averaging over 285 yards per game in the air, but the Wildcats held them to only 170. Despite attempting twice as many passes as Dugan, Yellow Jacket quarterback Patrick Bates could only rack up 170 yards to Dugan’s 190. The Wildcats did a superb job of rushing the passer while covering sometimes as many as five receivers.

A record-breaking career. Play stopped in the middle of the second quarter so that quarterback Tommy Dugan could be honored for breaking the all-time Wildcat record for total offense. In his years at the helm of the Davidson offense, Dugan has been the most productive player in the history of the school. He broke the total offense record with 5,322 yards passing and rushing, and continues to build to his total. Said Landis, “I can’t say enough about Tommy. He is so deserving of what he’s accomplished. He’s dealt with a lot of pressure throughout his career and there is no one more deserving of this honor. Standing out there with him and (Athletics Director) Jim Murphy, giving Tommy that game ball, I was never prouder of any player I’ve ever coached. He’ll go down in Davidson history.”

“I love you man.” Reflecting on the game, sophomore Corey Crawford beamed, “It was huge! It was huge! It feels so good to be 5-2. It’s so exciting. Last year was really hard. It seemed like every week was the same thing: disappointment, disappointment, disappointment. This year it feels so great to be able to come out and win. Everybody’s so confident in the program, and confident in each other. There’s a special love in this team, and it’s going to carry us the rest of the way through.”

Volleyball team shuts out two more, improving to 14-6
By Seth Davis
Staff Writer

The Wildcats volleyball team had a series of away games this past week, one on Tuesday, October 20 and another on Friday, October 23. Both road trips were a success, as the Wildcats continued along their path of domination of the Southern Conference. The first game in the week was against the Spartans of UNC-Greensboro, who had already fallen once to the Wildcats at Belk Arena. Entering into the game the Wildcats had a 14-6 overall record with a 7-2 record in the Southern Conference.

Head Coach Lisa Marston used a smaller rotation against the Spartans than is usual for most matches. Seven Wildcats saw action in the match, including Jennifer Ortega, Katherine Lorenz, Mara Mordini, Janet Duncan, Ginny Quis, Brooke Bentley, and Gina Lawrence. These seven Wildcats met a solid Spartan squad who provided an early challenge. The first game of the match was hotly contested, ending 16-14 in favor of the Wildcats. Game two was less of a challenge for the Wildcats who won 15-10. The Spartans retaliated in the third game, once again extending the Wildcats to 16-14 in order to close out the match.

Key contributions were made by all the Wildcat players in the game. Jennifer Ortega, with 9 kills, also led the team in kill percentage, with a 36.8% total. Mara Mordini and Gina Lawrence led the team in total kills, with 16 kills each. Ginny Quis had 52 assists in the match. Both Ginny Quis and Janet Duncan had two service aces while Brooke Bentley, Katherine Lorenz, and Gina Lawrence each had one service ace. Defensively, Mara Mordini led the team with 15 digs while Janet Duncan had six total blocks.

After the win at Greensboro the Wildcats moved on to meet the Bucks of East Tennessee State. The Bucks are having a tough season, and the surging Wildcats made short work of them, winning the first game 15-5. In the second game the Bucks were a tougher challenge, but the Wildcats won 15-13. The match ended with a 15-7 total in favor of the Wildcats. At the end of the week the Wildcats stood at 16-6 on the season, with a 9-2 record in the Southern Conference.

Wildcats 3 UNCG 0
Wildcats 3 ETSU 0

Oct. 28th @ North Carolina 7pm
Oct. 31st @ Hampden-Sydney 1:30 pm
Oct. 31st The Citadel 2pm
Nov. 3rd SC Tournament
Nov. 1-3 Davidson Fall Invitational
Oct. 31st @ Chattanooga 8pm
Oct. 31st @ W. Carolina 2pm
Oct. 31st Emory 12 pm
Nov. 1st SC Championships

Dugan, a senior, broke the school’s record for total offense with 5,322 yards passing and rushing in his career. Dugan was key in the ‘Cats’ 30 to 16 homecoming victory.