By Robert TROTTMANN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Town Meeting this week, held at Davidson Town Hall last Tuesday at 7:00 p.m., was rather well-attended because a heated issue was up for discussion, and the regular rules had been altered to allow citizens unlimited speaking time.

The issue up for debate was when to go through with Project 32, a sewer-expansion project. The sewer system is to be expanded past Rocky River Road to Gray Road. The question is whether to go ahead with expansion as scheduled or to postpone it.

If the town chooses to go ahead as planned, the added sewer will be completed in mid-2001.

There are several reasons Project 32 was proposed. The plan will eliminate pump stations, which are expensive, break down, and could harm the environment.

The town is divided on the Project, but the people in attendance at the meeting seemed to want to go ahead with the project as soon as possible.

The real meat of the debate was not over sewage, or how to dispose of it. The true debate hinged on one fact: a sewer system means neighborhoods.

The extension of the sewage system would clear the way for developers to build neighborhoods (with the town’s consent).

These neighborhoods would go into what is currently greenspace — land owned for weeks, or decades, by Davidsonians.

Much of this land, however, is slated to be sold.

Whether this land goes to developers or to individuals hangs on whether it has sewage or septic systems. Many people at the meeting didn’t want to see this land — which will be sold regardless of when Project 32 is completed — turned into neighborhoods, which means more traffic and more suburbs.

Also, it was noted that just down the road, the children of the town are attending school in trailers. Money could be spent elsewhere now and on sewage in underpopulated areas later.

Most people in attendance, however, took a different view. The land that will receive a sewage system is going to be sold soon because those who own it are ready to sell.

If the sewer is built soon, this land will be sold for a much higher price than if the project is postponed. The land will be sold to developers, who are ready to buy if the land has a sewage system. (It is possible to build a neighborhood with its own sewage system, but the last attempt was not approved by the town.)

There is also a question of infrastructure. If neighborhoods are built (as opposed to breaking the land into small pieces), the taxes reaped will be greater.

Also, the only way for the town of Davidson to receive state and federal monies to improve roads, schools, and sidewalks is if more people are affected. Neighborhoods could indirectly bring the funds necessary to fix roads, add to schools, and create sidewalks.

Regardless, the sewer system will be improved and will extend down Rocky River Road. The land out there will be sold soon.

Whether that land becomes neighborhoods with their benefits and costs, or small homes on tracts of land with their benefits and costs, is up to the Town Board, and will be decided today.

---

Time management class teaches stress-relievers

Staton stresses scheduling, organization

By Douglas CUTTING
Sports Editor

Davidson can be a demanding place. Between academic work, athletics, socializing, and additional jobs, there is little breathing room. Without question, time-management skills are in demand on this campus. Dr. David Staton in the Student Health Center can help anyone acquire these skills.

Staton has conducted a small-group time-management class for the past three weeks.

Although he would have enjoyed more attendance, Staton was pleased with the course. He is more than willing to do more classes if students show interest, but Staton understands that many people would rather meet one-on-one.

“Time management is not a piece of knowledge, it’s a skill,” noted Staton. “Dividing the course up into three sessions provided some concepts for developing these skills.”

The first time-management session dealt with scheduling.

“Some of us avoid scheduling because we want to be spontaneous. We think that organization will limit the spontaneity. I’ve found that students who make schedules for themselves discover just the opposite.”

According to Staton, some simple organizing during the day or specific study hours can eliminate “stewing” and procrastinating, and can actually work against any rigidity.

Staton also had his groups journalize their progress, which was found to be extremely helpful. “This format provides group support and visible progress,” Staton added.

Call the Student Health Center to take advantage of the professional staff and their accessibility. Dr. Staton is extremely flexible and can set up more group or private meetings.

---

PEACE CORPS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23 AT DAVIDSON COLLEGE

GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION

The Homeroom
College Union
7 p.m.- 9 p.m.

1-800-424-8580 (press 1) or www.peacecorps.gov

---

1 Free Session With Valid Student I.D.

GOLDEN AGE TANNING SPA

GRAND OPENING THIS FRIDAY! STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE

(704) 895-2337

1998 Model JK/Ergoline Tanning Beds

38 Bulb, 3 high pressure facial tanning beds

LOCATED NEXT TO DAVINO’s IN SADDLER SQUARE
NORTH CAROLINA LICENSED AND CERTIFIED OPERATOR

12 PRIVATE, SPACIOUS TANNING ROOMS
IN-BOOTH INTERCOMS

VARIOUS TANNING PACKAGES
EXCLUSIVE TANNING ACCESSORIES