THE DAVIDSONIAN. As the celebration of the 25th anniversary of coeducation approaches, I have been considering my place as a
woman at Davidson today. When I decided to apply and to enroll, the fact that Davidson was once an all-male
school held little significance for me. In fact, the school’s past did not affect my decision at all; I was
concerned only with the college of today. When a man in the grocery store told me that Davidson was “a
boy’s school,” I replied, “It isn’t now.” Then and even last year, I rarely thought about the women who came
before me. How Davidson became open to women did not matter because it seemed just to have happened at once.
But, in fact, coeducation did not just magically occur one day. Years of women taking classes since the Civil War
or before and the feminist movement during the 1960s and 1970s converged to open Davidson to women. Both men and
women worked for years so that I could enter Chambers for class without any thought.

I cannot connect with those past women even though women have been allowed to receive degrees for only 25 years.
I write “receive” deliberately because although women had completed the degree requirements since at least 1901, Missy Woodward ‘73 was
the first woman to graduate from Davidson. I have been lucky never to have heard the words “You can’t do
that because you’re a girl.” (Okay, my mom did say it once, but she was right.) In fact, my parents
encouraged me to do anything I wanted. “Can’t” was not in my vocabulary: I could play sports, wrestle with the
boy next door, and race Hot Wheels with the best. At school, I was encouraged in math and science (my
dad is still recovering from my possible English major), and I never thought about being the only girl on the
middle school Science Olympiad team. Unlike some girls my age, I never doubted my abilities because of my gender. A
few girls, including one of my friends here, were told that they were incapable of succeeding in math and science
(my friend is now a math major). The first time I ever heard someone say that women couldn’t do something
was here and by another woman, and yes, women can succeed in economics (if succeed is the right word to
use for econ).

The Davidson women of today live in a place where our equality is taken for granted. I don’t think that
I even realize how lucky I am because I can’t imagine living in a different society of the 1960s where
women and men had more distinct spheres. I’m not saying that complete equality between the sexes exists (I have just
been very lucky). If it were so, then the Equal Rights Amendment would have passed. Plus, why is only the
men’s basketball team considered to be “Davidson basketball”? Does the women’s team secretly go to another school since their games
aren’t listed as “Davidson basketball” but “women’s basketball” instead? If so, I think that the students have a right to
know.

Still, we have many advantages because of those women who opened the door from President Kirkpatrick’s daughters during the Civil
War to the “Lucky Seven” of World War II, the eight-school exchange students, and the Classes of 1973-1977. Davidson men
also worked for coeducation, including the students of the late ‘60s and early ‘70s and former President Spencer, and we,
Davidson women, are indebted to their efforts. Looking at the contributions of these men and women, I think that we
need to remember their struggles and accomplishments and to honor them. Davidson did not become the institution we know and
love instantaneously without effort. If these people had not worked TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, appreciate the gift we have been given
for coeducation, half of the student body would not be here. How many of us would have wanted to be
the first class of women at a men’s school? In honoring these people, I think we need to work continuously
to improve the campus. Women may be here, but Davidson has other issues to address. Just as those who brought
coeducation to campus and made it a success bettered the school as a whole, we have a duty to make
our beloved school better. Supporting and joining campus action and support groups is part of our job. By striving to
enrich our community, we will help Davidson become an even better place for the students who follow us.

Note to Dave and Erich’s “The only column you ever need to read”: I can ignore your insulting my house
(you were pretty funny), but not your “Mrs.” degree insult. If I were here only to “major in Mrs.,” I
would deserve Crabbie’s Golden S.A.G.T.A.S.S. award. Why would any woman come to Davidson simply to find a husband? It would
be much smarter to go to a state school where there is less work and more men. Plus, every woman
here probably could have saved at least $100,000 and maybe even gone for free. Guys (only Dave and Erich), I
hate to hurt your egos, but I think that the female population has more to do than impress you. You
may want to consider the reasons for your lack of dating experience.

The verdict is in: Note from the writers: Do not read this if you are easily upset, irritable, or anal.
We're not kidding. This week’s topic: The Weight Room in Baker or lack thereof. Sucks. Some Questions: Why would anyone
build a multimillion-dollar sports complex and put a 12-by-10-foot weightlifting facility in it? How are buffed, sculpted, superhuman, Greek gods
like your authors supposed to maintain the level of fitness that we have grown accustomed to all our lives? Is
there a correlation between the number of students getting memberships at neighboring health clubs and the lack of space and
equipment not being monopolized by the volleyball team in the Baker weight room? We believe that it is equally important
to work out your body as well as your mind. The lack of workout equipment has forced students to explore
other methods of stress relief.Namely drinking—a lot. Many people, your authors included, believe ker is inadequate.

Girl 1: What’s with all the clothes? I want to see guys with their shirts off.

Girl 2: I think there should be some sort of qualifications for guys to use the downstairs weight room, like
they have to be able to bench 135 and be able to dip their own weight.

Girl 3: I don’t like it when guys grunt and act all tough like the 175 they just put up
seven times was a feat. I’m sure most of the girls on the basketball team can bench more than they
can.

Girl 4: Guys that lift for bulk, rather than definition, you know, steakheads. Do they realize girls don’t care that
he can bench 375 if he weighs 250 pounds and doesn’t have a neck?

Girl 5: We could not print what she said, but don’t worry, Fred, it has nothing to do with you
or how stupid you look in that wife-beater.

Here are some of our suggestions and not those of Davey Bacon, John Leslie, or Evan Tiska (we promise). First,
facing the adductor machine the other way and putting in bleachers. Not allowing a whole team to invade the weight
room, especially one that smells like chlorine. Make an attempt at having more inconvenient hours so even fewer people can
use it. Replace the ever-so-helpful weight room specialists with mannequins, and that 12-pack will do the same for your physique
as a solid 45-minute workout. After both, you think you are the hottest guy on earth, that you can fight
a whole fraternity and win (in some cases this might be true), and you feel the need to lift and
throw everything possible, right Burk?

I think the root of this problem lies in the fact that no one has spoken out about this yet.
We have brought in Resident Experts Max Nelson and Nate Hagerman to shed some light on this topic.

D&E: Mr. Nelson, what makes you an expert in this category?

Nelson: I’m not, I just have very strong feelings about the weight room.

D&E: Fine with us. We feel the same way, too. So what do you think could be done to improve
the weight room—not that it could get any worse?

N: To begin, I am very disappointed with the shirt-wearing policy. What is the point of endless hours of pumping
iron, taking supplements, and eating a low-carbohydrate/high-protein diet if I can’t see the results? I want to see the progress
I am making and show others too—my body is happening, baby!

Hagerman: I have some personal feelings about the weight room too; however, they deal more with the weight room clientele.
First, the Nautilus Schwarzeneggers who wear gloves and lift about 350 on the Nautilus machines (which translates to 65 pounds)
have no business being there. Hey, I have a question: What are those kids wearing headphones listening to when benching
just the bar? Natalie Merchant mix tape? Also, I don’t like guys who wear tank tops with pipe-cleaner arms; they
look like a bunch of chumps.

N: Some other great additions would be mirrors on the ceiling to admire my development from all angles and pictures
of in-shape people to show students what they are supposed to look like. I think those should go all over
campus. We also need some personal trainers for the morons that don’t know how to use the equipment properly, like
the cross-country guys who think bicep curls are a full-body exercise.

H: Good point, Maxwell. The weight room is missing other essential things, like cup holders on all the machines for
my protein shakes. Also, where’s the gift shop? What am I to do if I want to purchase a bright
purple Gold’s Gym-esque tank top, a license plate cover, or some Wildcat parachute pants?

Erich and I, because we are not the sexists that some girl (whose name we can’t pronounce, let alone spell)
said we were, spoke with the five girls who would still acknowledge us and asked their opinion on the subject.
Use the money saved to purchase some Stairmasters and AB rollers. These could be set up in the extra space
that has been cleared at the Russian Union Café. We also think that Stairmaster 101 should be a PE requirement,
postponing the inevitable freshman 15 until sophomore year.

The Week in Review

Surprisingly, more pipe has been laid outside of Chambers than inside. Warner Hall’s Madonnarama party (translation: dress like a slut
party) was followed up well by PiKA’s Glamrock (translation: dress like a slut party). Bobby Vagt proposed to turn off
all power and water to the campus between 1 and 5 p.m. instead of turning off the lights in Chambers
at night to save some cash.

Favorite Girl of the Week: Almost every girl at Madonnarama wearing only a bra.

Least Favorite Guy of the Week: The announcer at the men’s soccer games. It’s called inflection, look into it. Don’t
count down from 10 anymore, you make us angry; in fact, you make us choleric.

This week’s sign the apocalypse is upon us: The men’s soccer team won a game.

Most overused deceptive tactic that doesn’t work: Clothing tied around your waist.

Question of the Week: Why is Cort Heroy looking at guys with small packages anyway?

In other unrelated stories: Jake Fischer has been working without sleep on the freshman girls and we have his report
in our hands. Unfortunately, we are unable to release his findings because not all of the girls probed were of
age. We promise to bring you this information as soon as all of them turn 18.

Note from the writers: We need to make a correction from our past article. Morgan Camp is actually 5’6” tall,
and contrary to popular belief, he does not like height jokes. We apologize for this inconvenience.

Coming in two weeks: The Dating Scene, or lack thereof. We have already started our research. It is very scarce.
We would like anyone who has ever been on a date at Davidson to e-mail us because we need a
Resident Expert and everyone knows we have never had a date.
