THE DAVIDSONIAN
By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts & Living Editor

The arts at Davidson have enjoyed a healthy welfare climb over the past several years. The college symphony was revived in Fall 1994 after an infamous 40-year hiatus. The Davidson College Chamber Singers were assembled in their current form in the spring of that same academic year. The theatre department has been sponsoring dramatic productions of all sorts for years. Spring 1997 saw a historic joint effort put forth by the DC Symphony Orchestra and Concert Choir, as they gave two performances of Mozart’s Requiem. Only a cooperative effort between the music and theatre departments could prove a greater triumph. And sure enough, the worlds of acting, vocal, and instrumental music collided in Love Auditorium this weekend, culminating in the largest-scale artistic production that this fair college has ever seen. A bold statement, yes, but a reasonably safe one.

“Truly, a sight to behold,” spoke one bystander. Although “Madness Rules: the Hour” just arrived last weekend, this quasi-opera had been four years in the making. It was the brainchild of Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., professor of theatre and speech, a dramatic interpretation of events surrounding the French Revolution, inspired by journals, memoirs, and letters from the period, as well as Thomas Carlyle’s “The French Revolution.” Barber himself authored the libretto, while Dr. Richard Prior composed the score, written for full choir, orchestra, and voice soloists.

Over 200 Davidson students participated in the production, most of whom served as part of the orchestra, the choir, or the starving angry rabble on stage. The two vocal soloists were Dr. Dan Boye, portraying King Louis XVI, and sophomore Kate Scibal, who played Marie Antoinette. A healthy host of Davidson students, faculty, and alumni were on hand in Love Auditorium to witness Friday’s premiere. Shortly after 8:00 p.m. that evening, Dr. Prior’s gallant baton led the chorus and orchestra in a harrowing, raucous evocation of the opera’s opening phrase, “France is breaking apart.” Prior’s prologue featured some stellar word-painting.

Soloists Dr. Boye and Scibal took the stage shortly thereafter. Both soloists did an exemplary job, as their voices carried over the powerful orchestra to fill the venue’s entirety. Boye, a physics professor, sported a particularly impressive set of pipes. The remainder of the cast was predominantly comprised of students from Theater 101, 121, and 221. The axe-wielding, bread-deprived Versaillesian masses filled the stage to the left and right of the broad staircase which served as the set’s centerpiece. Despite the amateur status of most thespians involved, the production featured some commendable acting from several students. The most memorable monologue was that delivered by senior Jose Ruiz as De Séze, the lawyer for the accused king. His thunderous speech left the audience shuddering in their seats. Principal narrators for the play included Iva Taylor, Phil Finch, and Chase Bringardner.

Because both the Concert Choir and Symphony Orchestra were still in the wake of their major springperformances, rehearsal time for “Madness” was scant. This considered, the quality with which the opera was pulled off is even more impressive. The final product represented an immense commitment from Drs. Prior and Barber and all musicians and actors involved. Saturday’s performance of the 80-minute work was also quite well-received. “Madness Rules the Hour” should be appreciated for what it was — exclusively conceived, produced, and performed by Davidson professors and students, and done well. This mammoth endeavor should long be remembered. Thus, the performing arts departments stand proud, as well they should.

By ‘Chantilly Lace and A Pretty Face for the week of April 28, 1998

Congratulations, you have made it to week (# of times you slept through your first class) of the semester!! As exams loom on the horizon, you are feeling (how your stomach was feeling at 3:00 a.m. last Saturday morning) about the status of your GPA. To calculate your current GPA, use this (adjective) chart:

Days of the week that you got to class: 
Plus pieces of mail received this week: 
Minus your # of encounters with Peach Melba: 
Divide by your mama’s age: 
Add number of Bonus Bucks you haven't scarfed down: 

This is your current GPA, (your sign).

Some study tips:
Aries does it with his horns.
Taurus always does it in red.
Gemini always does it with a partner.
Cancer: Just do it!
Leo also does it with pride.
Virgo: Do what?
Libra always gets caught in the carrel.
Scorpio does it for life.
Sagittarius does it best on the IMAC fields.
Capricorn does it best in an unlocked room in Chambers.
Aquarius and Pisces do it underwater.

SERVICES
Prep Cooks
Hostess
Sautee

Come work for us this summer at the Lake! Carraba’s Italian Grill, Outback Steakhouses Inc.'s newest concept is now hiring for all positions in its newest location in Huntersville. Apply in person Mon. - Friday 2-6, Saturday 12-4 at 16408 North Cross Drive. West on Sam Furr Rd. (Exit #25). Behind new Marriott Courtyard across from Pinnacle Apartments.

BARTENDERS
Frances Ullmer, Lt. Governor of Alaska
4:30 P.M. - 5:45 P.M. | Bus Boys
Chambers Gallery

EVER WONDER WHAT ROADKILL LOOKS LIKE ON THE INFORMATION HIGHWAY? Come hear LEADERS of business, government, and industry speak on the role technology is playing in their field, and what it means to YOU.

FRIDAY, MAY 1
2:00 - 3:00 P.M. “Biotechnology” - Hodson Hall
Richard Brubaker, Medical Director, Mayo Medical Ventures
“Banking and Technology” - Perkins Auditorium
Rod Bosscawen, Sr., Vice President, Technology Services, NationsBank
3:15 P.M. - 4:15 P.M. “Media and Technology” - Hodson Hall
Ervin Duggan, President and CEO, PBS
“Technology and The Public Sector” - Perkins Auditorium

It used to be called a “roundtable discussion”. Now it’s a “chat room”. Come hear all of the day’s speakers, including John McCartney, former President of US Robotics.

POSTER SESSION - CLINICAL RESEARCH METHODS
Results of campus-wide survey of mental health and psychological functioning on display Tuesday, May 5 from 2:30 to 5:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Winning Raffle Numbers: 638158, 638670, 638760