10 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

By MELISSA ANN DE CASTRIQUE
Arts & Living Editor

For months, the Davidson-Cornelius communities have anxiously awaited the area’s greatest advancement to date.

The wait is almost over.

At midnight on Monday, Nov. 16, the nation’s largest full-service family restaurant chain welcomes another member into its fold with
the opening of the Exit 28 Denny’s. As the town’s first 24-hour restaurant, the Denny’s opening allows Cornelius to finally
claim the title of “The City That Never Sleeps.” This fine eatery, located in the building formerly occupied by Carrow’s,
brings a rich history and tradition to an area plagued by fast-food restaurants and hollow, emotionless hot spots like “Starbucks.”

Denny’s is similar to these other Exit 28 establishments only in that it is part of a chain. Denny’s is
the hub of a larger corporation, Advantica, which owns many other establishments including Carrow’s and Coco’s Bakery. The common misconception
about such a restaurant chain is that every location is the same, but in the case of Denny’s nothing could
be further from the truth.

Most importantly, Denny’s offers more than Slams and a great selection of pies. According to Elizabeth Fleming (‘01), “Denny’s is
an establishment of camaraderie and procrastination.” Denny’s fans across the globe are quick to concur with this sentiment. As Mark
Jones (‘00) succinctly claimed, “It’s not just a restaurant, it’s an experience.”

As if this ethereal quality weren’t enough, Denny’s is a refreshing break from the norm in the physical sense as
well.

For example, the Exit 28 Denny’s has an appearance unique to that of its cohorts at Exits 36 and 16.
The fact that this Denny’s was originally designed as a Quincy’s is a primary reason for these structural differences.

Another original feature of the new Denny’s is the much talked-about Carolina Room, which will greatly increase the restaurant’s capacity.
This particular dining area will be opened during peak traffic hours and also to accommodate large parties. The room, which
can be reserved in advance, also has a fireplace, adding to its homey charm.

For all its noteworthy amenities and glorious potential, this new Denny’s has experienced setbacks. It is rumored that the fundamental
reason for the grand opening delay is the fact that the Exit 28 Denny’s is sadly understaffed. As the sign
in front of the restaurant proclaims, applications are still being accepted and those who apply are guaranteed an interview the
same day.

Regardless of when the new Denny’s opens, Davidson is ready. While Denny’s regulars are expected to turn out en masse
for this gala event, newcomers are greatly encouraged to try the Denny’s experience for themselves. After all, such a powerful
atmosphere can only be verbalized to an extent. “With all sincerity, Denny’s is, to me, more than can be expressed
in the English tongue,” was Pete Thomson’s (‘00) impassioned view.

Thus, I urge all members of the Davidson community to experience Denny’s and share the magic that has brought joy
to so many worldwide. From Ohio to Guam, one can easily argue that the phrases of the Denny’s night menu
constitute the only universal language. Only by recognizing the potential of Denny’s to not only serve great food but to
provide a common link for all of humanity can we truly maximize the value of our precious college years.

JERRY, TIM, AND MAURA WANT YOU TO BE PART OF THE A (& L) TEAM.

Call Wes (x6569) or Melissa (x6585).

STAND UP, SPEAK OUT!

About what YOU can DO to improve race relations at Davidson.

Sunday, November 15th at 8:00 p.m.
900 Room of the College Union

Brought to you by COMA
The Council on Minority Affairs

“Let’s Move Together”
If you have any questions, or want more information, please call:
Rachel May (x6726) or Allen Lee (x6329)

DAVE MATTHEWS BAND IN CONCERT
