THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1998

“Three Viewings” Dazzles Audience
By Matthew Moretz
Guest Writer

Yes. I believe “writhing” was my word of choice. But you must understand that I don’t writhe without just cause. I writhe for sunsets, well-played Grieg Concertos, and chocolate oranges. Anything less would be uncivilized. Oh...I forgot to add another “writher” to the list: skilled acting. In my attempt to express to the cast of “Three Viewings” how I felt during their opening performance, this seemed the ideal word.

“Three Viewings” by Jeffery Hatcher starred Benjamin Summers, Carrie Van Deest, and Jess Robblee. For four Black Box days, these three thespians were each given the spotlight that they deserve. The medium they used to draw the audience into their respective worlds were three exquisitely-penned monologues around 25 minutes each. These three individuals overwhelmed me with their ability to keep their audience transfixed by their characters for such an extended period. All of the presences on stage had an enticing story to tell, all leaning on the themes of death and love. Each walked a cloudy line between narration and living the story being told. Their created personas were firmly established and devoid of cracks. We, the audience, were skillfully escorted through the engrossing lives of the characters, making astonishing discoveries alongside them.

We were introduced to Emil, played by Benjamin Summers, in the first piece. This timid mortician (pardon me, Virginia, undertaker) was impressively presented by Ben with squirrel-likeness and depth. His mannerisms and movements were quirky and superbly consistent. He endowed the reserved (and somewhat greasy) Emil with the fervent fire of frustrated passion. We were Emil’s intimate confidantes and joined him in his struggles to express his love to a gal with a pacemaker. The use of abrupt lighting in the piece added to the intensity of the touching portrayal.

Preceded by a change in floral decor, we took a trip across the United States with Mac, deftly played by Carrie Van Deest. This bipolar coffin-robber — whose husband forgot to fix the kitchen door — takes us along on a new mission. We are dragged through the dark and tragic corridors of her past as she pursues theft from the corpse of her grandmother. Carrie displayed the mischievousness of Mac the thief and the sorrow of Mac the grieving mother, giving us ample taste of the rich reservoirs of her character.

In the third account, the newly-widowed Virginia, aged to perfection by Jess Robblee, must survive the fearful legacy of her wheeling and dealing husband, Ed Carpolotti. The lively and resolute Virginia must confront the mysterious nature of her dead hubby, dreading the list of 13 things about Ed that someone threatens to disclose. The remarkable aspect of Jess’s performance was that she remained seated for the entire monologue. The life of her character eradicated any monotony that the stationary blocking threatened to impose on the piece. She met the challenge with skill and style.

Every performer in “Three Viewings” drew me into their world with ease. I left the building with my thoughts lingering on the ironies and tragedies of the three viewers, the residuals of the writhing still present in my spine. I left the building wanting more, walking in a happily unsatiated state. Well done.

Vivaldi “Four Seasons”: An Immaculate Performance
Soloists Impress Audience in DCPC Sanctuary
By John S. Kenyon
Guest Writer

On Thursday, Feb. 19, the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra performed Antonio Vivaldi’s “The Four Seasons.” Student soloists were senior Chris Gyves (“Spring”), sophomore Wesley H. Goldsberry (“Summer”), senior Elizabeth Parker (“Autumn”), and sophomore Sarah Davis (“Winter”). Hoping for a large turnout for their winter concert, the orchestra secured the Davidson College Presbyterian Church sanctuary as its performance venue. Spectators filled most every pew. About ten minutes past eight o’clock that evening, the crowd finally got a chance to applaud the talented young musicians as they took the stage.

Clearly, the audience was expecting a great performance. What they heard was a masterpiece. Conductor Richard Prior was able to use the amphitheater-esque qualities of the church to provide a surround-sound environment, allowing the orchestra to exhibit their attentiveness to musical detail, accuracy, and sensitivity. “I was very impressed,” said student Nancy Mensch. That same impression of awe and amazement was left on other members of the audience as well. “I thought the concert was well done,” commented Mark Cody. “I enjoyed it very much.”

The orchestra definitely used their opportunity to showcase Vivaldi’s masterwork of the seasons extremely well, and as it should be performed. Each season had its own soloist, which the orchestra patiently and copiously mimicked or added background music to in order to give the full effect of the various moods and ideas Antonio Vivaldi wanted to express through his work. “I thought the soloists did a great job,” continued Cody.

At the end of the performance, the applause from the audience was concomitant to the standing ovation which followed.might have left with slightly varying reactions to the evening’s performance, I believe all were positive. The DCSO will perform its spring concert on Thursday, Apr. 9 in Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. The performance will include Beethoven’s 5th Symphony and will feature senior Erika Rissing on horn, winner of the 1997-98 DCSO Concerto Competition.

COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
- COMMERCIAL
- INDUSTRIAL
- ADVERTISING
- CATALOGS
- PUBLISHING
- AERIAL
- BROCHURES
- MURALS
- PRODUCT
- PROMOTIONAL
- DISPLAYS
- STUDIO ON-SITE

ART OF DISTINCTION
By Mitch Shores
Student Health Advisor

A friend of mine stumbled upon this article, and all it talks about is what kills your libido. Now, I think this is something we should examine here, ‘cause I never hear of people having very good sex lives around here. Now, some of you may say that we are not supposed to have sex before marriage. Well, you have just buried your libido alive, and I am sure you will dig it up someday. I just hope it is not all rusted when you need it.

Anyhow, sex happens, we all have sexual cravings, and we just got to do what we got to do, and I think we should DO IT!! We can all think about doing it, but let’s stop and think about what might affect our libidos.

The first thing that has an adverse effect is hormones. Hormones: we all have them, and if you are lacking in this department, it might be because I got enough of them for a small army. Girls, it is said that one of the killers is birth control, because it limits the testosterone levels in your bodies. Since testosterone is the sex hormone, this is bad. Now, never ever compromise safe sex for good sex. There are priorities here, and we have to stick by them. If you should choose to discontinue the pill in hopes of reviving your libido, I would strongly suggest that you look into another type of contraceptive.

The second killer of libido is too little sleep. Well, no wonder this little campus has no sex drive. We are all too busy writing papers and studying for tests, and when we don’t have anything to do, we are too damn tired to DO IT!! Well, once again, we must remember our priorities. We are here, after all, to get an education. Hopefully along the way, we will be able to slow down a little and have a little fun! Ain’t nothing like getting the old motor going again after a long hard week.

Stress also leads to a decrease in sex drive. I think this is another thing we have here at Davidson. We just have to take the plunge and relieve our stresses in a healthy way. And please, whatever you do, don’t have a big adrenaline rush (GUYS!!) before you DO IT!! This will only stunt your performance and sex drive.

Slaughtering our sex lives: Libido killers on the prowl

Now, this one might be a conflict of interest for some of us on campus, but too much exercise will do your sex drive no good at all. Maybe if we just cut back a little bit we can experience the sexual surge we are all looking for. I think I could give up exercise for this, anyway. After all, if you regain your libido, it could lead to the workout of a lifetime. Hey, at least it would be different from pumping iron and running on the treadmill.

The next two things that affect libido are counteractive, so what will we do? They are depression and antidepressants. If you are depressed, you will be less likely to be interested in things you like to do. But if you take the antidepressants, this, too, will lead to the death of old Don Juan. However, there are some antidepressants that have been shown to work well and not affect your libido, including Wellbutrin, BuSpar, Yocon, and the herb ginkgo biloba. Talk to your therapist about these alternatives.

The final killer — and I think this would be a killer in more ways than one — is hypoactive sexual desire. You got to think about sex every now and then, or you are going to lose that feeling for it. Some of you may shrivel up at this, but you have to provoke yourself every once in a while. There are still a lot of taboos about masturbation around here, and it is time to take that wall down. There is nothing wrong with it. If it does anything for you, it will teach you things about yourself. Have fantasies, and maybe one day, you can even see those fantasies happen. Of course, if you do not have them to start with, it will be no fun in your sexual search. Get kinky, people!!!!

Ok, enough. I think you all get the picture. We would be more content and healthy people if we just let these sex kittens out of their cages. Let them run wild and explore it. Try to watch out for yourselves, and stay away from these libido killers. And if all else fails, just turn bitch on them and show them what you have in mind.

If you have comments, questions, or concerns let us know.

The Student Body
c/o Mitch Shores
PO Box 4180
Davidson, NC 28036