By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

During the Patterson Court Council Retreat earlier this month, the Council developed a vision statement concerning service: “To provide meaningful
and valuable services for the local, regional, national, or global community while exploring ourselves and strengthening connections with others in
one’s house and with others involved in Patterson Court at large.”

For the houses, service is part of the Patterson Court experience. All of the houses have service chairs who are
responsible for planning and orchestrating their service projects. During the retreat, Service Coordinator Bill Abrams led a discussion of service
defining the difference between recreational and transformational service. According to Patterson Court Service Chair Christine Larned, recreational service is mainly
the fun, one-time participation that is often most feasible on the Court. Transformational service, on the other hand, involves committed
service, slower results, and direct contact with the community. While one-time projects sometimes work better for Patterson Court members, Larned
feels that “ongoing projects usually make a bigger difference and develop relationships.”

Some houses have a specific focus for their service. For example, Phi Delta Theta channels much of their service attention
toward those who suffer with ALS. “Lou Gehrig, perhaps the most recognized ALS patient,” said service chair Sean Doyle, “was
a Phi Delt in college, so we raise money for the disease.” For the past four years, the brothers of
Phi Delta Theta have sponsored a golf tournament to raise money for the ALS Association of North Carolina. Doyle said,
“Last year, we raised $4,000 for ALS and are hoping to raise even more money this year.” The brothers will
be working closely with North Carolina Governor Jim Martin, whose brother suffers from ALS, “to ensure this April’s golf tournament
will be the best yet.” They have also attended several support group meetings in Charlotte for patients and family members
of patients with ALS.

According to service co-chair Page Neubert, Turner House hopes “to pull the community together through children.” With Catherine Turner, director
of the Ada Jenkins Center, being the house’s namesake, Neubert thinks that Turner has an “awesome opportunity and connection to
service in the community.” One of Turner’s current projects is “Choice Tuesday,” when a group of Turner women go to
the Ada Jenkins Center. It is a “day designed to give the kids choices,” said Neubert, “because they don’t get
to make very many decisions, nor do they have a lot of freedom.” The women of Turner will assist in
projects such as...

Andersen Consulting Information Session—Wednesday, October 21, The Chambers Gallery, 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. You know you're more than a
piece of paper. You're bursting with ideas and insights that can change the world of business. And at Andersen Consulting,
we want them. As a leading global management and technology consulting organization, we bring our insights and ideas to world-class
clients to help them achieve their goals.

©1998 Andersen Consulting. All rights reserved. An equal opportunity employer.cooking and crafts. Turner’s main project for the fall is currently
in the planning stages. Neubert explained, “We’ve met with Parks and Recreation and Catherine (Turner) about putting on a Winter
Carnival to take the place of the Halloween Carnival.” While there is no service requirement for the women of Turner,
Page has found “the house to be very responsive to our projects.” “I think people are psyched,” said Page, “because
of our connection to Catherine Turner.”

Phi Gamma Delta participates in projects through their relationship with Davidson Parks and Recreation. Their goal is two Saturday service
projects a month. “Community service,” said service chair Robert Leacock, “is of vital necessity to the Fraternity of Phi Gamma
Delta. It keeps our association as brothers well-rounded and allows us to bond in an environment of giving.”

Emily Willeford, service co-chair of Rusk, said the goal of service at Rusk “is to encourage members to engage in
service of others, especially in recognition of the opportunities that Davidson presents to us, and in doing so, attempting to
allow opportunities to open for others.” Some current projects at Rusk include helping out with the Children’s School House Carnival
on Oct. 3, participating in Home Runs for Habitat with Kappa Sigma, and chaperoning a party at the Ada Jenkins
Center for preteens and teens on a Friday night next month. Willeford continued, “As for long-term projects, we are looking
into helping with the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life in April.” Desirae Haylock, Willeford’s co-chair, named another upcoming project
at Rusk: “We are going to sponsor Christmas activities with about 10 girls from the Davidson area who are experiencing
hard times with school, finances, and familial relationships.”

Last year’s service projects included the following: Court-wide participation in Town Day and the cleanup of Erwin Lodge; SAE’s golf
course cleanup, valet car service, and bike-a-thon to benefit the Ada Jenkins Center; Rusk and Connor’s participation in Habitat for
Humanity; KA/Warner Hall Carnival with proceeds to the Muscular Dystrophy Association; Kappa Sigma’s MADD Run, Home Runs for Habitat, and
work at the Ada Jenkins Center; Warner Hall’s Crush Cans with proceeds to the Ada Jenkins Center and participation in
CROP Walk; Phi Gamma Delta’s Service Saturdays at the Ada Jenkins Center; Phi Delta Theta’s Golfing for Gehrig tournament, cleanup
of Grey Road, and participation in the Ada Jenkins Center Halloween Carnival; and PiKA’s individual tutoring at the Ada Jenkins
Center.

We're looking for thinkers. Not just their diplomas. Profound change. After all, it takes powerful ideas to align strategy with
people, processes, and technology. We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and expose you to a variety of projects and industries.
All of which builds a solid foundation for your future. Take this opportunity to talk to us about yourself, and
most importantly, your ideas.

Visit our website at www.ac.com
Andersen Consulting

THERE ARE PLENTY OF ADS IN THIS ISSUE. Now, HOW ‘BOUT SOME ARTICLES? Call Liz. She’ll be happy...
