THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ Arts & Living

The Student Body

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

By ANNE STANCIL
Student Health Advisor

College is a confusing environment. Everyone tells you that these are the best years of your life, but sometimes they
feel like the worst. An inevitable part of college, especially at an intense environment like Davidson, is depression. Thursday is
Depression Awareness Day, and in conjunction, I want to educate the student body about this phenomenon. Depression takes many forms
and can have different manifestations. I’m sure all of us have felt sad or down at times. Grades, friends, and
family all contribute to feeling sad. We label these feelings as depression. While feeling depressed is a very real part
of anyone’s life, I want to concentrate on the disease known as clinical depression, which affects many people.

There are two different types of clinical depression: exogenous and endogenous. Both occur because of chemical imbalances in the brain
and both can be treated with therapy and medication. Three common anti-depressant medications are Prozac, Zoloft, and Paxil. A person
suffering from exogenous depression feels depressed as a result of external situations. (Sometimes this condition is called situational depression.) For
example, a death in the family can result in profound feelings of loss and sadness. While most people grieve for
a significant period of time when a loved one dies, a clinically depressed person cannot recover from his or her
grief without treatment. Endogenous depression is inherent in the person who is suffering. In other words, feelings of hopelessness and
sadness occur without an external stimulus. This form will also continue without treatment.

The battle against depression — You are not alone

Now that I have explained the medical terminology of depression, I want to address the emotional effects. Often depression can
go for extended periods without diagnosis. This can be very painful for both the sufferer and his or her family
and friends. Many people simply don’t understand that this is a very real disease and it needs treatment just like
other diseases like diabetes or multiple sclerosis. Here are the common signs and symptoms of depression:

* sadness and/or irritability
* changes in weight and/or appetite
* fatigue/loss of energy
* lack of interest/pleasure in activities
* restlessness or decreased activity
* thoughts of suicide or death
* changes in sleep patterns

If you suffer from any of these symptoms or have friends or family members who do, it is important to
go and talk to someone. Simply exhibiting some of the symptoms does not mean that you are clinically depressed. The
indicator for clinical depression is prolonged suffering which lasts for weeks, months, or even years.

Depression is usually a silent disease. It has virtually no outwardly visible physical symptoms, but many emotional and psychological ones.
If you feel down in the dumps or sad most of the time, don’t worry because you are not alone.
Millions of people suffer these symptoms every day. Know that there are successful methods of treatment for clinical depression, but
you have to take the first step and talk to someone. No one should expect you to conquer depression on
your own. It is not a sign of weakness or lack of character — it is a disease that you
should not and do not have to battle without help.

Attention Students
WE ARE LOOKING
FOR TALENTED

STUDENTS WHO

ARE INTERESTED
IN SHOWING OFF
THEIR SKILL IN FRONT
OF A CAPTIVE AUDIENCE.

IT’S A GREAT WAY TO GAIN EXPERIENCE,
PLUS THERE’S FREE FOOD!

Jaspers

202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

We are looking for soloists, duets, and trios. For more information, call Kristin Metzler at

(330) - 273 - 1940 or e-mail at glsoccer@usa.net
