50 This is the first in a series of articles focusing on the people and programming of the College Union,
its traditional prominence on this campus, and its mission to foster greater unity among students, faculty, and staff.

AT THE UNION
By Michael J. Kruse

One thing’s for sure: There’s no lame duck period at the Union. Eu Hall’s foursome of Andrew Marvin, Adam Soltys,
Andrew Campbell, and Mike Newman were crowned champions of Davidson’s College Bowl competition earlier this month, capping the successful event
coordinated by Britton Taylor. And Solidarity Week, under the management of outgoing Co-Curricular Vice President Donna Gribble, ended last night
— mere hours after the official changing of the guard took place at the Union, as Cintra Pollack replaced Matthew
Hobbie as president.

“It’s a really good sign of strength for a group if in January they are producing new events and have
as much energy and creativity as earlier in the year,” Union Director William Brown said in a recent interview. Said
President Bobby Vagt: “I think it’s terrific, the amount and the level of programming at the Union, because it’s a
student-driven and student-directed program.”

“I’ve been happier with Union programming this year than in years past,” added Matthew Staton, who headed the Intimate Performance
Committee on Hobbie’s Board. “I think a lot of people worked really hard this year.”

Led by the seemingly omnipresent Hobbie, the Union Board in the past year has continued the recent commitment to provide
more weekend programming — social options for students other than, or in addition to, Patterson Court. While Disco — later
Club — Night on Thursdays was not as successful as the Board had originally hoped, Saturday Night Live represented a
solid centerpiece to the weekend docket.

“There’s been terrific Saturday night programming,” said Assistant Director for Programs Sherry Malushizky. “That’s been one of the things that
has improved the campus the most.”

Along with the commitment to increased weekend scheduling, the Board forged a stronger bond with Outpost — in Malushizky’s words,
establishing “a presence down there” — inherently linking Independent with Greek, Up the Hill with Down the Hill.

“Matthew came in with a whole lot of enthusiasm and a real desire to bridge with other organizations on campus,”
Dean of Students Tom Shandley said. “He was really committed to working with, not against, Patterson Court. He wanted to
strengthen what was going on at the Outpost.”

But that wasn’t the only thing. Thanks to gorgeous weather for the first time in several years, Hobbie’s board staged
a spectacular — and fiery — Lunar Luau last fall. F-crew flourished throughout under the guidance of Billy Roberts. And
the Board was able to lure Chicago-based Second City to campus, the first nationally renowned comedy troupe to perform at
Davidson in years.

“It’s been really organized and well-run due to the cohesiveness and unity of the group,” now-former Social Vice President Michelle
Bougdanos said. “The openness, unity, and excitement of the entire Board is reflected in all of the accomplishments of the
past year.”

Unfortunately, the most memorable event at the Union in the past year was also the saddest — Zac Lacy’s suicide
in September. And ultimately, Lacy’s death gave the outgoing Board a unique togetherness. Said Malushizky: “This Board was able to
come together and do some special things.”

Even before Matthew Hobbie, an active campus politician in the SGA during his first two-and-a-half years here, decided to run
for Union Board President, William Brown noticed something different, something special: Hobbie had a habit of wearing a name tag
around campus — not because he had to, but because he wanted to.

“That, to me, spoke volumes,” Brown said. “It said that here’s a guy who understands what the mission of the
Union is all about — our getting to know each other, our saying hello, the value of that. He understood
what we’re trying to do here.”

And it’s no secret: Hobbie wants to know and be known. The senior Classics major from Concord, N.C., is a
natural-born social facilitator, a community builder. The job of Union Board President was practically made for him.

A Davidson without Matthew Hobbie? Maybe. Maybe not. Following his graduation in May, the outgoing Union Board president could end
up sticking around, taking a job at Davidson.

“People on staff have told me, ‘We can’t imagine a Davidson without you,’” Hobbie said in a recent interview. “I
feel that way as well. In one way, I want to go out in the world and show what I
learned here. But I love the people here. They are what makes Davidson special. In turn, I love the institution
that has Hobbie weighing post-Davidson options. Davidson is my home, and I love the people here.”

That said, Hobbie would consider positions in the admissions and alumni offices. “To be able to see a different side
of schools and having that first contact with Davidson students in the application process would be an amazing opportunity,” he
said.

Take your pick: work in rural or urban communities, carpentry, graduate school in religion, or mission work. “And I may
do all of those,” Hobbie is quick to point out. “Just not at the same time. After having this experience
at the Union, I feel like I can accomplish anything.” — Michael J. Kruse

Lacy had taken a job as night manager of the Union following his graduation in May. “It’s hard to talk
about this Board and not talk about what happened,” Malushizky said. Yet the tragic event demonstrated the Union’s vital purpose
and presence on this campus. “That was definitely a"Defining moment,” Hobbie said. “The Union is family. That group came together
and supported each other,” he added, referring to the hundreds of grieving students, faculty, and staff who gathered on the
front steps of the Union that night. “It’s so important that the Union was the place to come for people
to console each other.”

The Union presidency was practically created with someone like Hobbie in mind. Yet he entered his term over a year
ago with little to no official experience in the field. “Matthew brought a fresh perspective; in other words, he didn’t
know what the hell he was getting into,” quipped Mike Goode, Assistant Director for Operations at the Union. “There was
lots we needed to go through with Matthew. But frankly, that was a good thing for everyone involved. He challenged
some of the ways we did things. We had to support what we were doing and respond to his new
ideas, which went in different directions.”

Added Shandley: “For every major organization on campus, it’s probably refreshing to have someone come in from the outside occasionally
and bring a fresh perspective. Matthew did that.”

Hobbie’s style was clear: to go to just about everything. “Matthew had a real personal commitment,” Shandley said. “You'd see
him at tons of Union events himself. He’s been a real hands-on leader.”

“He’s been very visible,” Brown agreed. “What Matthew has done is supported other things people have done by being there,
by encouraging people to move ahead. One of the best things a president can do is to be present.” And
Hobbie, if nothing else, was certainly that.

But Hobbie is the first to admit that it was the Board as a whole, not just the president, that
made the past year so productive. “It’s the group that makes it happen,” said Hobbie, referring to the students on
the Board and the professional advisers who provide year-to-year stability. “It’s the community of individuals. I’m here because of other
people, and that’s been true all my life.”

Indeed, late last semester when Hobbie was forced to concentrate solely on academics, Gribble took over as interim president —
and the Board didn’t miss a beat. “She just stepped right in,” Brown explained. “When the principal leader steps out
and things continue to run well, it means everybody’s been doing a good job.”

Those involved point to the Board selected by Hobbie, Gribble, and Bougdanos as a primary reason for the past year’s
success. “They recruited a fairly creative group of folks from some pretty different parts of the student body,” Goode said.
“And that’s essential for an active College Union. These were people that really cared about what they were doing, about
building community.”

Once the Board assembled, Hobbie worked to keep the committee chairs enthusiastic and, most importantly, involved. Said Goode: “Matthew’s own
excitement was contagious.”

Hobbie puts it a tad differently. “I’ve just been a lucky bastard,” he said. “I’ve been blessed.” But seriously, Hobbie
added, “It’s the most incredible thing I’ve done at Davidson. It was so much more than I expected it to
be. I learned more than I’d have ever thought.

“The goal of the Union is part of the goal of the College — it’s to educate not only the
people who come to the Union, but the people who organize the things. I really love the community at Davidson.
I couldn’t think of a better job to work with that community.”

College Bowl team competes in Knoxville
Davidson places fourth in regionals
By ANDREW CAMPBELL
Guest Writer

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — The Davidson College Bowl team returned in good form from its recent hiatus in intercollegiate competition. Davidson
completed the regular tournament with a 10-2 record and eventually placed fourth in the region finals. On the way, Davidson
inflicted the only first-day loss of the eventual champion University of South Carolina. The team suffered losses to second and
third place finalists Virginia Polytechnic Institute and Lee University of Tennessee, while defeating the remainder of the field, including William
and Mary, the Citadel, Hampden-Sydney, Roanoke, Longwood, Center, University of Tennessee-Chattanooga, and East Carolina.

The Davidson team consisted of members Adam Soltys, John Potter, Michael Newnam, Andrew Marvin, and Andrew Campbell. These players are
from the school champion Eu Society team, with the addition of the runner-up team from FUJI.

The ACUI Regional competition was comprised of colleges and universities from North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, and Kentucky. The
competition was held at the University of Tennessee-Knoxville, with the winner going on to the national tournament in Dallas, Texas,
in April. Davidson will continue competition in March with an invitation by USC to their tournament in Columbia, S.C., in
March.

WRITE FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN. THINK OF IT AS A TERM PAPER WITHOUT THE ANNOYING GRADE. Call Liz Neiheisel (x6292), Sarah
Ogden (x6508), or Randy Skattum (x6508) for more information.

SEMESTER ABROAD IN COSTA RICA

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke University are accepting applications for the Fall 1998 semester for a field-oriented,
science-based semester abroad program in Costa Rica. Students earn 16 credit hours in tropical ecology, environmental science and policy, field
research methods, and Spanish language and culture. Credits may be transferred from Duke University.

* hands-on experiential learning
* independent field projects
* cultural immersion
* extended stays at remote field sites
* home stays
* extensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact:
Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University
Tel.: (919) 684-5774; Email: <nao@acpub.duke.edu>
http://www.ots.duke.edu

Application deadline for 1998 Fall semester is March 20, 1998.

A consortium of universities providing leadership in education, research, and the responsible use of natural resources in the tropics.
