Jerry Douglas Band to play Love on Thursday

By Kirk WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer

This Thursday, the Jerry Douglas Band will play Love Auditorium. The band consists of Jerry Douglas, Maura O’Connell, and Tim
O’Brien, but Douglas is clearly the center of attention.

He plays the Dobro, which is similar to a steel guitar and is played horizontally, whereas a normal guitar is
played vertically. Although he didn’t invent the instrument, he has defined the way that it should be played. Other famous
Dobro musicians include Duane Allman, Elmore James, Leo Kottke, Bonnie Raitt, and Muddy Waters.

Douglas is a six-time Grammy award winner for his work on the Dobro with the Nashville Bluegrass Band, Alison Krauss,
and others. From its inception in 1990 through 1995, he won the International Bluegrass Music Award for instrumentation on a
Dobro. The Washington Post described his playing in this way: “When Jerry Douglas slides a bar across his Dobro, the
notes speak, moan and murmur like the human voice. They are so evocative, in fact, that one longs to discover
the lyrics implied by his phrasing.” As you can probably tell, this band is not an unproven bunch of kids
looking for their big break, but an internationally recognized group of musicians.

Jerry Douglas was introduced to the Dobro when he was eight years old and by the time he was 17,
he had toured the country playing with the Country Gentlemen. In 1978, he released his solo debut, “Fluxology,” which was
just the first of his many amazing albums. His latest effort, “Restless on the Farm,” can be heard on WALT
1610 AM. He has played or recorded with James Taylor, Garth Brooks, Ray Charles, the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band (a
Davidson favorite in the ’70s and ’80s), Bela Fleck, Reba McEntire, Randy Travis, Sam Bush, and many others.

After being asked about the show, one Davidson student said, “Do you like bluegrass? Then you gotta check out Jerry
Douglas on November 5, because the man gets it done!” With an endorsement like that, how can you go wrong?

Tickets are on sale now and can be purchased at the Union ticket office on weekdays between 2:30 and 5:30
p.m. or they can be purchased at the door (but beware, there is a great deal of interest outside of
the college for this show and it may sell out). Tickets are just $6 for students and $12 for faculty/staff.
For the general public, they are $18 in advance and $20 at the door. The 8:30 p.m. show will be
in Love Auditorium, with the doors opening at 7:00. Get there early to get a good seat, because the show
is general admission. This show is presented by Maxx Music and the DC Union Concert Committee.

Kirk Willingham is the DC Union Concert Committee Chair.

WE KNOW, WE KNOW.

WE MISSED:

College Relations

Yesterday, faculty and students celebrated Day of the Dead in the College Union. The festivities included an altar, traditional food,
and a candle-lit walk in remembrance of those who have passed through our lives.

FREE Hot Fudge while you're here, buy a few as gifts!

202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604
