Scott Buchanan/Aaron Sundstrom
Conservative/Liberal Perspective

Scott Buchanan’s Perspective

Topic 1: The Imminent Energy Crisis

- OK, an energy crisis? Whatever. It’s all a bunch of lies. I see no energy crisis. Saudi Arabia’s still
pumping oil by the billions of barrels. Alaska has more oil than any place really should, and more telling than
that, gas prices are incredibly low. To me that just seems to indicate that there will not be a major
“energy crisis” anytime in the near future. Even if such a crisis ever does arise, as someone once said, “necessity
is the mother of invention.” If we ever start to run out of oil, gas, or petroleum, then we will
at that point figure out how to deal with the problem.

- Guess who will then solve our problem. That’s right, private enterprise. Not government. Everyone is whining about how we
should pour all sorts of public funding into random, wasteful research programs that are seeking out “alternative energy solutions.” Well,
that’s just stupid. The only way to find new ways to solve these so-called energy problems is to let big
business deal with it. When and if our oil and gas supplies begin to run low, private companies will all
be clamoring to be the first to solve the problem and thereby make a huge profit. Leave it to them
to deal with.

Of course, this all presupposes, as I have already mentioned, that we are actually running low on fuel. Foohey, I
say. It is actually probably a Democratic ploy to get liberals elected to office by spreading paranoia. I mean, Al
Gore needs something to run around and hoot and holler about. Without environmental issues such as this, he would have
nothing constructive to dither on about. Thus, I choose to write off this whole issue. So there.

Topic 2: Ben Cooper

Let me begin by stating that Ben Cooper is a psychopathic loser. Ok, if you don’t actually know him, well
first count yourself lucky, and then realize that you have probably at least seen him sleazing around the campus once
or twice. He’s the big burly Alaskan who normally is sporting the huge beard, which, by the way, went out
of style about the time C. Everett Koop was Surgeon General. Enough description. I mentioned that he was psychopathic, but
what is of most importance is that he is a loser. Mr. Cooper pretty evenly divides his time between drinking
and whining. A dynamic combination indeed. He dresses poorly. His demeanor is unfriendly. You’ve probably seen him at Court parties:
he is always THAT guy on pretty much any given Friday night. Solution to the Ben Cooper problem on this
campus? Steer clear. Avoidance is the key. I mean, nothing will destroy your social standing more than being seen with
Mr. Cooper, so freshmen, take note. At least, that’s the way I see it.

Aaron Sundstrom’s Perspective

Topic 1: The Imminent Energy Crisis

When I look to the future of the human race and of the planet Earth we live on, perhaps the
most frightening vision is that of a devastating world energy crisis. And the scariest part is that it’s going to
happen. As humans, our modern existence relies heavily upon the inventions of previous generations, and these inventions have learned to
rely on limitless power production. But as our gadgets have become more advanced, more nifty, more complex, our consumption of
the once-plentiful fossil fuels has increased. But people are beginning to realize that there isn’t a limitless supply of oil.
Nor is there an endless coal mine or natural gas pocket. Some people propose that further drilling and exploration will
continue to unveil more sources of oil and other fossil fuels. But what happens when the environment has been destroyed
to discover these fuels, and what happens when these new discoveries run out? The answer lies in the certain devastation
that our power-hungry and power-addicted society would see. So what we need to do is to begin aggressively seeking alternative
power sources and alternative power consumption methods. Solar energy, hydroelectric energy, wind-generated energy... the list goes on. Some might even
argue for nuclear fission, citing its safety if contained. Perhaps an even better option would be nuclear fusion, which is
now being researched as an even more effective source of energy than fission, and without the harmful waste products. Our
consumption must be checked, too. Electric cars, solar-heated houses, and energy-saving measures on computers and other devices are all good
first steps toward an energy-efficient society that will survive the energy crunch. So whether the attack on the imminent energy
crisis begins with alternative methods for production or reduced consumption, the attack must be made. Our society needs to find
some other means of survival. If we don’t, modern living, society, and our very existence as we know it will
not continue.

Topic 2: Ben Cooper

Let me begin by stating that Ben Cooper is apsychopathic loser. However, I feel that Ben’s psychosis is the more
relevant aspect of his social maladjustment. I mean, have you seen the look in his eyes? He’s a madman, for
the love of God. His putrid sense of humor and delight at others' dismay is purely sickening. Now, I’m no
psychoanalyst or anything, but let’s look at the facts. Ben is from Alaska. It’s cold there. People don’t get out
much. Have you heard of cabin fever? Well, big brother igloo fever has been known to strike the native population
with devastating proficiency. So my advice to all you kids out there is to steer clear of Mr. Cooper and
his wacked-out way of thinking. And that’s the truth to me.

Unique Abroad Program Invades Davidson
David Rosenberg
Sophomore Perspective

So I went abroad yesterday. Yep, I went on a one-day foreign exchange study, though it bore no relation to
the "Dean Rusk Program." In fact, the program I went on was a lot less hassle than any of the
formal programs at Davidson. No papers to fill out, no plane tickets to reserve, not even a new language to
learn. I traveled by foot to the Vail Commons Cafeteria, a long and arduous trip from my homeland of the
Belk dormitory. Finding shelter from the outside winds, I hung up my trench coat and put aside my walking stick.
The program was so convenient that it even accepted my declining balance in exchange for food.

As I walked the short trail, I passed Jockville to my right, the population which inhabited the three or four
tables in the right corner of the eating room. Large athletes, men and women alike, ate with cutoff sleeves and
grunted at each other between food swallowings. They appeared to me a savage bunch with their gruntings and barbarous hee-hawing.
One large hairy beast of a man winked, then laughed at me as I walked past. Their mere size and
strength intimidated me as I tried to avoid eye contact and shuffled by their tables. I found safe haven in
Africa-America, a different and kind place. I sat down, began eating my food, and attempted to join in on the
conversation.

I did have a few questions about the cultures of the surrounding lands, so I asked the gentleman next to
me about the table that was laughing and cackling in the back corner of the cafeteria. He explained politely that
that region belonged to the so-called swimming cult, a strange and isolated group of people. “They move in flocks,” explained
the wise man, “and are never caught alone. They socialize only by themselves and it is rumored that they sacrifice
animals.” I shuddered and continued with my meal.

Curious again about the athletic sect I had seen when I entered the cafeteria, I asked the friendly student what
those mongrels did with their time. He answered, “Some lace together the dried skins of pigs and run with them
in a mad frenzy to cross a designated line without being dragged to the ground. Others fill cow hides with
air and attempt to toss them into metal baskets. They are of a strange breed.”

The three cultures did have one thing in common, however. There was a steady procession from the females of each
tribe to the ice cream machine. Some even returned to the machine two or three times. I asked my wise
friend about this phenomenon and he said, “The females of each clan must add on several layers of fat before
the winter months to keep warm.” It’s only natural that people associate with those they have most in common. But
we cannot ignore the fact that our cafeteria, a microcosm of our school, is divided. Student Government may insist that
for one lunch a year we randomly eat with random people to increase our so-called awareness. People are comfortable with
those they have similarities with, whether it be a common sports team or color of skin. It only makes sense
that we are attracted to those with similar characteristics. We are safe where we are. Should we be concerned? Should
we notice these obvious integrations? Maybe it is just okay. Maybe there is nothing wrong with racially isolated theme halls
and eating houses. People feel more comfortable with those that they have most in common. But as they say, “it
takes two to tango,” and it’s awfully hard to dance while glued to chairs in a divided cafeteria.

After I had finished eating, I left the land with fond memories and retired to my Belk quarters. Thus ended
my so-called abroad program.
