_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Cats’ front-court quartet stifles Livingston, Appalachian State

By Daniel Morz
Senior Staff Writer

GREENSBORO — Kareem Livingston, like the rest of the Mountaineers, never could figure Davidson out this season. The 6-foot-7 senior forward, who led Appalachian in scoring this season with over 12 points a game, registered 20 and 15 in the Mountaineers’ tournament victories over Furman and Chattanooga, respectively. But Livingston, both all-conference and an all-tourney first-team selection, managed only eight points and four rebounds against the Wildcats in the March 1 final. It was his third forgettable game versus Davidson this year.

Livingston had 11 points on 3-for-5 shooting against the Wildcats Jan. 31 in Boone and dropped to just seven on 2-for-5 shooting Feb. 19 at Davidson. He had just three rebounds in those two games combined.

“I just have to try harder and give it my best effort,” Livingston said in the postgame press conference after Appalachian’s victory over Chattanooga when asked how he could improve his efficiency against the Wildcats. But ultimately, that wasn’t enough. The bigger and stronger Davidson frontline stymied Livingston for the third straight game.

“Davidson showed how you should play us,” said Appalachian coach Buzz Peterson. “Zone us, let Tyson Patterson and Blair Adderly have their shots, and surround Kareem Livingston.”

Doing that surrounding in Davidson’s championship victory was the post quartet of Stephen Marshall, Ben Ebong, Chadd Holmes, and especially Landry Kosmalski. Kosmalski, while his scoring numbers are slightly down from his Southern Conference Freshman of the Year performance, remains equally as valuable to the Wildcats as he was a season ago. The reason his scoring statistics are a bit down? Look no further than to the increased offensive production of Marshall — from under six points a game last year to over nine this season — and the addition of Ben Ebong. There can only be so much scoring for one team.

Kosmalski’s rebounding and defensive work, though, were his biggest assets in the championship game. The biggest scrapper on the squad, Kosmalski grabbed nine rebounds against the Mountaineers, all of which were tough and uncontested. It was that kind of effort that Livingston hoped he could bring to the final. But like for the rest of the team, the third time was not the charm.

NCAA’s, recognition for school

By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

GREENSBORO — Attention all college basketball fans, casual or die-hard: Davidson College. Take note. It’s in Davidson, N.C., which is about 15 miles north of Charlotte. It’s the eighth-ranked liberal arts college in the country according to the most recent U.S. News and World Report. Due to an exceptionally large freshman class this year, enrollment is slightly over 1,600 students. It is not Denison. It is not Dickinson. The name is Davidson.

By becoming one of 64 teams to advance to the upcoming NCAA tournament, coach Bob McKillop’s men’s basketball squad has put itself in a position to earn national recognition for the school it represents — an institution that, despite its high acclaim in scholarly circles, nonetheless toils in anonymity as a small college in the South. Because of the importance America places on sports and the publicity gold mine that is March Madness, the Wildcats will put Davidson — the College, not just the basketball program — in the national spotlight regardless of whether they are able to pull off an upset or two. And if they do indeed win one or some, watch out.

At the Southern Conference preseason media day, Chattanooga coach

Ton, Wildcats edge Georgia Southern in quarterfinals

By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

GREENSBORO — Georgia Southern coach Gregg Polinsky looked at his personnel, particularly his relative lack of firepower inside, examined Ali Ton’s shooting percentage, and took an educated gamble. Stop the Wildcats’ inside game. Make Ali Ton beat the Eagles.

Ton obliged. The pass-first-shoot-second point guard shot 6-for-10 from the floor in tallying 20 points — doubling his previous career high — as the Wildcats edged GSU in the Southern Conference quarterfinals Feb. 27 at the Greensboro Coliseum.

“If you told me we would hold all their big men to single digits, I would say we would have a hell of a chance to win the game. And we did.”

Indeed. Behind 20 points from white-hot guard Elvardo Rolle and another 18 from one-on-one extraordinaire Quentin Martin, the Eagles held a 52-50 lead with 10:17 remaining. Panic time for the Wildcats? Hardly. Thanks to threes by Davor Halbauer, Ton, and Mark Donnelly, and a crucial three-point play from Ben Ebong at the 1:01 juncture, the Wildcats outscored the Eagles 24-16 in the final 10 minutes of the game.contest to advance — however precariously — to Saturday’s semifinal matchup with VMI or the Citadel.

“Today was an experience we profited from,” coach Bob McKillop said in the post-game press conference. “We know what it’s like to make plays at the end of the game to win the game.

“We have a significant number of weapons on this team. This game shows you that we have a pretty balanced attack.”

While the post quartet of Stephen Marshall, Landry Kosmalski, Ben Ebong, and Chadd Holmes was limited to just 22 points and 14 rebounds — the foursome averaged 41.5 and 20 in the final four games of the regular season — Davidson’s backcourt stepped up. In addition to Ton’s career effort, Halbauer recorded 14 points on flawless 4-for-4 marksmanship from beyond the arc, Donnelly added 10 points and a squad-best nine rebounds, and Billy Armstrong nailed two early threes, finishing with six points.

“We kind of maxed out today,” Polinsky said, “I thought our guys stepped up and made big shots all game. But you’ve got to give Davidson credit. They made the plays down the stretch.”

The celebration starts in Greensboro and follows the team all the way back to Davidson

BY MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Senior Staff Writer

DAVIDSON — When the NCAA-bound Wildcats arrived home from their Greensboro triumph, coach Bob McKillop’s house on Concord Road had already been hit, the trees in his front yard covered with toilet paper. Meanwhile, the team and its ecstatic following gathered at Baker Sports Complex for the postgame celebration. After enjoying pizza and other snacks, soda, beer, and champagne, and watching a tape of ESPN’s broadcast of the title contest, tournament MVP Ben Ebong turned on music and danced a celebratory jig while others discussed the victory.

Coach Bob McKillop and Ebong addressed the throng in the lobby of Knobloch Tennis Center.

“This is a journey that began 12 months ago,” McKillop said, echoing statements from his press conference earlier in Greensboro. “This win is not just from the players and the coaching staff. It was a commitment to the families, and that’s what Davidson is all about. It was so present today and has been present for the past six weeks.

“And this is not it, today’s glory. We want to go further.”

Ebong thanked those who don’t often get the credit, such as walk-ons Chris Stec, Travis Ezelle, and James Hampton. But most of all, he thanked the fans.

“The fans are the heart, the emphasis,” Ebong said roughly seven hours after he and the rest of the Wildcats cut down the nets an hour-and-a-half up Interstate 85. “You do it from your heart, and that comes from the crowd.”

Henry Dickerson reported that the Mocs’ stunning run to the Sweet 16 in last year’s tournament gave UTC $22 million worth of essentially free publicity. USA Today ran a daily feature — one on the front page of the entire paper, the others on the front page of the sports section — on the Mocs’ Cinderella status in the week prior to the regional semifinals. Johnny Taylor, Willie Young, and Chris Mims — Chattanooga’s top trio — practically became national names.

And, according to Dickerson, such recognition did wonders for recruiting.

“It made it a little easier to explain Chattanooga,” he said. “I’ve had (high school) coaches tell me they’ve got players who have just fallen in love with us, that they like the way we play, that they like our uniforms.”

Even applications and enrollment at Chattanooga went up.

“It’s amazing how students want to come and cheer for winning programs,” Dickerson said. It sounds silly, to be sure, but it’s

See Recognition page 15

Anna Judy @ Ali Ton scored a career-high 20 points in the Wildcats' victory over Georgia Southern in Greensboro

“If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost. That is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them.” - Henry David Thoreau

- Home-stays with meals
- Field trips

Program Costs:
- In Seville, Spain
- In London, England

Application deadlines:
- April 1 for summer session

Toll free: 1-800-342-1725

University of Wisconsin-Platteville
- Study abroad in Seville, Spain, or London, England, for a summer, for a semester or for a full academic year
- Courses in liberal arts and international business
- Fluency in a foreign language not required
- Financial aid applies (except for summer session)
- For tuition, room, board and field trips $5,975 (fall or spring) for Wisconsin residents
- $6,275 (fall or spring) for non-residents
- $5,275 (fall), $5,675 (spring) for Wisconsin residents
- $5,575 (fall), $5,975 (spring) for non-residents
- April 30 for fall semester
- October 15 (Seville), November 15 (London) for spring semester

For further information contact:
E-mail: StudyAbroad@uwplatt.edu
Web: http://www.uwplatt.edu/programs/study_abroad/