: __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dawgs, cats, cars: Millions of Youth and Lo

Men and women, the last two have solely M toward the male gender, so I decided to conquer a new
topic this week—pets, in particular, cats and dogs and the men and women who love them. You see, cats are
very girly and dogs are, well...manly. Cars are like this, too; I think I’ll talk about them as well.

Cats are like women in that cats are...oh gosh...moody. I’ve seen cats sitting perfectly still and quiet, and all of
a sudden, they need to get up and run like hell into the next room...for no reason. What’s in there?
Is Mighty Mouse heckling the cat on a frequency humans can’t hear? “Hey Cat! You get an ass kicking!” Sound
familiar, guys? “Honey, I want to go to TCBY NOW!!” My wonderful long-distance love (Cort Heroy, you're my hero) has
many a time gone from “Jimmy, you're so sweet” to “Jimmy, you have the brains of an odor eater” in
a matter of seconds. Cats are like this.

You know what else cats do? They do stuff for the sole purpose of pissing people off, like pooping in
your shoes or shedding all over your brand new clothes. After all, how many movies are made about cats? Real
cats, not counting Simba and the posse at Disney? That’s right, none.

Dogs have a different story. Seven thousand, nine hundred and sixty-eight trillion years ago, a caveman named Booger was walking
around the glaciers looking for a woolly mammoth to run away from. Anyway, Booger found a small, young puppy dog
named Larry. Soon they went hunting and killed some stuff and ate it; after that, a friendship was born. So,
dogs and man became the happy couple they are today.

See, dogs, like men, have several distinguishable qualities. Dogs and guys have a very distinct...odor. We both smell...pretty bad...but that’s
the way we like it! For example, walk down a guy’s hall and take a deep breath—not too deep, it
might be dangerous. Now, walk down the sweet-smelling hall of some girls; notice a difference? Dogs also enjoy lying around
and sleeping and eating, and so do guys! Dogs enjoy running after stuff, killing it, eating it, and then sleeping.
Do you know what dogs need? They need Depends. I think that dogs figure if they pee on enough stuff,
they’ll get some kind of plaque that says “Sparky is the biggest bad-ass on the face of the earth: Bow
Down and worship Sparky” and a valuable prize such as a million trash cans to knock over and rummage through.

Now let’s talk about cars; don’t worry, this won’t be an in-depth comment on how cars are the greatest invention
since the pogo stick. Different cars have genders! It’s easy to see...really! I'll take two examples. Example one is a
Dodge Ram truck. Trucks are big, loud, reliable, and they help you carry things. They are like the best buddy
you go tailgating with, except they won't puke all over your carpet. Trucks aren’t pretty; they don’t scream “Look at
me!” A truck is that buddy that’ll come get you out of jail and take you from point A to
point B.

Now let’s take a Corvette. A Corvette is a beautiful car that has grace and elegance that trucks could only
dream of. It has feminine curves and a beautiful voice. Let me explain: unlike trucks, Corvettes are objects to be
yearned after. You see, a Corvette has to be cared for and maintained; a truck doesn’t. Corvettes must be clean
and presentable at all times, much like a female. Trucks...well...can be covered in mud and you'd still present them, much
like your buddies. “Norm! Get that beer box off your head! My mom’s coming over here!” A Corvette isn’t that
buddy that you go tailgating with. It’s that girl (my Ashley) you just love to be with and can’t get
enough of. However, the Corvette wouldn’t come and get you out of jail; most likely you'd be in jail with
or because of the Corvette. All of a male’s problems have to do with that fact—“What in the hell do
you think you’re doing touching my vette (girl),” followed by a massive beat-down similar to Stone Cold Steve Austin opening
a can of whoop-ass on, say, David Schwimmer.

Well, on that pleasant note, I need to go and do some more work involving the high-speed physics of highway
driving and defending my title as World-God-Sega-Champion.

We’ve all been there before—looking at the clock slowly (or sometimes too quickly) tick away the morning hours as we’ve
sat there trying to cram everything into our heads. Caribou Coolers and cappuccino quickly give way to instant coffee and
Coke in desperate attempts to stay awake. We emerge from Chambers (or wherever) looking like a dog’s lunch and feeling
like death warmed over. Not only are procrastination and then all-nighters the worst way to study and a source of
caffeine overload (trust me, I know), but they also rob us of the reason our parents are paying $27,000—our education.

Too often, we get stuck in the mentality that grades are all that matter. I can’t count how many times
I’ve heard people stress over grades in the last week. I, too, am guilty of stressing, and I can name
the high school classes, such as AP Bio and AP Chem, for which I studied for the test and then
promptly forgot everything. These classes have done little for me because I saw them as grades and AP test scores
rather than classes. In our pursuit of the “A,” the grade becomes more important than the knowledge it represents. Yet,
this grade won’t carry nearly as much weight once we join the real world. Our employers will initially be impressed
with our grades, but our knowledge will matter more. Besides, the real reason for higher education should not be to
get a good job but to be well-educated. (I know this statement is unrealistic, but I’m allowed to be an
idealist.)

College gives us some idea of the enormous wealth of knowledge available and inspires us to become more learned. Using
Davidson as a starting place, we should try to understand the world better and to make a contribution. Even above
the pursuit of accolades should be the pursuit of fulfillment. Hopefully, the sum of our education—secondary school and beyond—will give
us the tools to achieve that.us some idea of how we fit in the world. I think that everyone wants
to feel that his life has some purpose, and through education, we should be able to find that purpose. Therefore,
next time you fill your body with caffeine and head off to Chambers (or seclude yourself somewhere else), think about
why and what you’re studying instead of just going into the studying overdrive. All of those notes do have more
meaning than tomorrow’s review or the distant exam. The all-nighter and the review will have little meaning in a few
days, but the knowledge they represent will remain for a lifetime.

Topic 1: Million Youth March

Okay, so New York shut down a Million Youth March. Fine, sounds good to me. What's the big deal? A
group of about 6,000 youth (hmmm, 6,000 equals a million? I would have done much better in Calculus if such
liberties with numbers were possible), assembled in New York City to rant and rave about something. What they were marching
for, no one has made clear to me yet. Mayor Giuliani had police break up the rally after their legal
time to meet had expired. What’s the problem here? Apparently, the police had to forcibly break up the march after
participants began throwing bottles and bricks at the officers. Let me stop right here. If people start throwing bricks at
police, then I firmly believe that these cops should have busted out the rubber bullets and stopped this sort of
business. People these days feel that for any pathetic little cause, they should be allowed to disrupt order and civility.
Freedom in America extends to the point that it does not infringe upon others’ rights. And when protesters begin attacking
police forces for no good reason, then they lose all rights of assembly. I am personally proud that such a
disruptive and undirected march was broken up. This march, in theory, came about as an attempt to promote African American
youth, but according to Knight-Ridder news service, fewer than a third of those present at the march were youth. Does
that make a youth march? I think not. This “march” was exactly what dutiful Mayor Giuliani feared, a forum for
the hate-spewing Khallid Abdul Muhammad to attempt to incite anger. To let such a man as Muhammad have a public
forum such as a sanctioned march was a travesty in the first place. For heaven’s sake, even Louis Farrakhan dismissed
Muhammad as an aide in 1994. When Farrakhan, noted for his own anti-Semitism, tells Muhammad to hit the pavement, then
everyone should realize that Muhammad’s ignorance and hate must be unparalleled. I believe the police in this case acted fairly,
and in fact would have been justified to have acted harsher.

Topic 2: Hooking up in a lofted bed

Fine, so those lofted beds are great for space conservation in the small rooms we all enjoy at Davidson, but
I mean, really, hooking up in them is no fun at all. They’re rickety and dangerous at three in the
morning after a long night on the Court when you and that special someone are enjoying each other’s company. So
what’s the solution to this predicament? Every room should come equipped with a flip-and-fold chair (okay, so no one calls
them by that name, but discretion is necessary in print). A blanket or comforter on top of the flip-and-fold creates
a lovely, comfortable bed area for everyone’s convenience. Also, one should not overlook the possibility of using that unlofted bed.
Sure, it may not be yours, but if you throw a sheet over it, no one will know, right? Fine,
so that’s a little weird and awkward, but, hey, for a good evening, it’s worth a little bit of awkwardness.
At least, that’s the way I see it.

Imagine it: You and a few thousand of your closest friends are standing in the street at an organized, peaceful,
socially significant rally, when, near the end of the scheduled events, a helicopter begins buzzing overhead, sweeping across the crowd
at very low altitudes. The next thing you know, police are storming the power generators and sound systems behind the
stage. Then these same police, in full riot gear including tear gas, have rushed the stage. What are you to
think about your attempt to make a public statement? What are these actions by the local authorities saying about the
importance of your views? After a long struggle to get a permit to have a rally, the organizers of the
Million Youth March were sadly and forcibly kept quiet. Beginning with an original denial of a march permit by the
city, the marchers appealed and received a permit for a certain time slot, a slot much shorter than the original
plans called for. So they had the march, and before it was even over, police in riot suits began surrounding
the premises. Why? These people, these young people, were exercising their right as Americans to speak freely about their views
and opinions of our country and our society. Granted, the keynote speaker may have had a militant message, a strongly
anti-white message, an empowering message to young blacks. But it was a message he was free to deliver, and a
message that the peaceful marchers were free to hear. How can anyone have the right to grant a permit for
a constitutional right? Maybe I'll start selling permits I made on my computer, with little shiny gold foil medallion seals
available in the bookstore. It just doesn’t make sense to me.

Topic 2: Hooking up in a lofted bed

You know, many people think that it’s precarious to climb up the side of the bed frame into their cozy
little sack. Some may even be a little afraid of heights. But for me, there just isn’t much like the
thrill of seeing everything from an entirely new angle. Yes, yes, the low bed or bunk is more convenient. Yes,
perhaps less awkward and dangerous. But if I want those things, why not use the floor and have the freedom
of movement instead of the confines of a college-issued, extra-long twin bed? The lofted bed approach may be more appealing
to a variety of people, such as skydivers, bungee-jumpers, or even platform divers. Hey, they like diving in deep from
high up, so why not emulate that in a bed? Anyway, what I’m trying to say is that it’s just
more interesting that way and can spice up your typical Patterson Court weekend with a new angle to things. So
climb up, get down, and thank me later.

So folks, that’s the real truth to me. WRITE FOR Op-Ed. COUNTRY, RIGHT? Call Erin (x6064).
