THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pacifica Quartet delights audience

By Lauren BECTON
Staff Writer

Monday night, September 14 proved to be an exciting night for the Davidson Music Department as well as for the
college at large. The Pacifica Quartet, hailing from Los Angeles, performed several works for string quartet in Hodson Hall. The
performance was the first of the 1998-99 Davidson College Concert Series.

The four young musicians performed works by Haydn, Ravel, and Brahms for a mixed audience of Davidson students and community
supporters of the series. The three works provided welcome contrasts in musical style as they were each from a different
time period. The first piece was the Haydn. Though young, it was obvious that the string players had a good
understanding of the Classical style and the manner in which the quartet should be played. It is not only imperative
that chamber groups interpret performed works as a cohesive unit, but they must maintain a tight ensemble as well. Much
rehearsal time is necessary to achieve this effect, and although the four have only played together for a few years,
they perform as an ensemble better than many.

The next piece was a quartet by Ravel. This piece was more interesting than both the Haydn and the Brahms
given its modern status and propensity to “break the rules” set forth by previous periods of music history. Inner voices
(second violin and viola), for example, were often brought to the forefront of the texture. This technique is used more
sparingly in earlier works. The cello, though it many times has quite interesting parts in Baroque and Classical music, was
more thoroughly featured as well. Because of this passing about of the melody, Ravel’s “String Quartet in F Major” sounded
more like an equal group of four rather than a solo violin accompanied by three supporting instruments.

All in all, the performance was a good one. Even considering minor obstructions such as having to retune midway through
a piece, the program went smoothly, ending in applause that lasted long enough for the musicians to return to the
stage for a bow three times. All those who missed it missed an enjoyable performance, and should make a note
not to miss the rest of the series. The next concert features Anne-Marie McDermott, pianist, on Monday, November 2.

FOR KIDS OF ALL AGES!
AT

THE SODA SHOP

104 South Main Street, Davidson
Open 7 Days Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

Shirley Temple - Slushie - Smoothie
Black Jack - Brown Cow - Big O
Hot Dog - Hamburger - Hoagie

Citrus Cooler - Cherry Limeade
Corn Dog - Chicken Finger

Pita Pizza - Potato Skin
Grilled Cheese - Grinder
Sweet Potato Fries

Shake - Soda

Taurus (April 20 - May 20)
You'll check your post office box later this week, upon which you'll exclaim, “Looky here, a Home Depot flyer.” College
students just love spending their work-study checks on lumber. Lucky Davidson pharmacy: CVS

Gemini (May 21 - June 20)
You head down to Charlotte for a night on the town. “Hey, let’s go stare at some banks!” Lucky Wal-Mart:
Penge Diet Fat Burner (with chromium picolinate)

Cancer (June 21 - July 22)
Two words: Lunar Luau. “Night of Inflatable Toys” becomes the most fun you’ve had in weeks, except for suffering a
bitter defeat in the boxing ring at the hands of your former roommate. It will be a public affair. Others
will be pissed too. Lucky Davidson gym: Johnston

Leo (July 23 - August 22)
Take your cues from Wesley Willis: “Rock over Painters, rock on Cornelius — this week will be bad to the
max.” Lucky house of waffles: Waffle House.

Virgo (August 23 - September 22)
You’ll manage to make it to breakfast on Thursday morning. Congrats, although you go buckwild eating Crullers, managing to snarf
down about 15 of these so-called “circular” doughnuts. As a result, you mutate into a giant Cruller during your first
class of the day. You'll get some strange looks, but it’ll make a great story for the grandkids! Lucky Maggie
Valley (NC) tourist trap: Ghost Town in the Sky.

Libra (September 23 - October 22)
Dying from thirst, you stop on your way back from the post office for a sip of water at the
Old Well. The force of the fountain, which rivals Old Faithful in its magnitude, blows your head right off your
torso. Academic year’s over for you, buddy: That’s right — $27,000 down the drain! Lucky Davidson practice room: C

Scorpio (October 23 - November 21)
In an act of lunatic daring, you take an axe to the Davidsonian “Tree of the Week” and use its
royal lumber to construct a campfire on Chambers Lawn, burning a hole in the grass three feet in diameter. Smooth
move, plant killer. Lucky Davidson gnome sanctuary: Tom Clark Museum
