THE DAVIDSONIAN Press RELEASE Van Every/Smith Galleries

An exhibition of eleven sculptures and two collotypes by Elizabeth Newman opened at the Van Every/Smith Galleries at Davidson College
on Mar. 19. The exhibition “Recollections/Reconstructions,” curated by Perry Nesbitt, Director, contains a number of pieces originally created in response
to specific architectural spaces, along with pieces constructed in Newman’s studio. Newman’s work often relates to issues of healing, nurture,
and caregiving. In the neutral gallery space, “the stark site is transformed and becomes in a sense, a metaphor for
the mind, both psychological and emotional,” according to Newman. “The memory materializes.”

An undeniable aid to this memory is Newman’s use of such elemental and associative materials as talcum powder, beeswax, honey,
and milk. The olfactory senses surround us, and we are drawn into a reflective state. Elizabeth Newman will show slides
of her work on Thursday, Mar. 19, at 7 p.m. in the Visual Arts Center auditorium. A reception will follow
in the atrium until 9 p.m. The exhibition will remain on view through Apr. 26, excluding Apr. 9 to 14,
when it will be closed for the Easter and Passover holidays. A brochure with an essay by Eleanor Heartney is
available from the Van Every/Smith Galleries.

For Newman, architectural space possesses a powerful inherent memory based on its cultural and social history. Informed by site and
studio, her sculptures are also transformed by their context and the alterations and recombination of materials that she uses. An
18th Century family home, the Middleton-Pikney house in Charleston, S.C., was the location of an early Newman piece titled, “Honey
in the Rock (Got to Feed God’s Children).” It celebrated the nurturing role of the Black “dah,” or nursemaid in
affluent white households and was one in a series of site-specific installations, “Places with a Past,” held in conjunction with
the 1991 Spoleto Festival U.S.A.

Newman also participated in a similarly site-influenced installation in 1992, “Art at the Armory: Occupied Territory,” commissioned by the Museum
of Contemporary Art in Chicago. It preceded the Armory’s demolition to make way for the Museum’s new structure. Her piece,
“Histories of Human Flesh,” responded to the building’s cold and impersonal status as the final home for many young soldiers,
the last of whom were serving in the Gulf War.

Ideas of nurture, caregiving, and healing come up repeatedly in the work of Elizabeth Newman. Many of the objects she
employs resonate with associations from past lives. Held and loved and needed by others, they are reborn in Newman’s hands.
Just as inanimate objects can sometimes trigger sense-memories, Newman creates environments that recall strong emotional and physical experiences — memories
of events both personal and global. The human connection through touch, Newman believes, can provide a vehicle for the transference
of energy or spirit. It is this energy that has the power to renew or heal. The empathic reach beyond
the self to connect with another is what invests us with humanity. Newman reminds us of the importance of these
selfless acts.

Elizabeth Newman lives in Connecticut and has a studio in Port Chester, N.Y. She grew up in a close midwestern
family, along the shores of Lake Michigan. She received an MFA from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago
in 1984, and a BFA from Michigan State University in 1978. In 1974-75 she studied at the Ludwig Maximilians Universität
in Munich, and received Illinois Arts Council Fellowship/Grants in 1986, 1987, and 1989, and the National Endowment for the Arts
Fellowship in 1990.

“Primary Colors” entertains, disturbs By WILSON BLUNTIN Guest Writer

“Primary Colors,” based on the best-selling novel by Joe Klein, is based heavily on Bill Clinton’s 1992 run for the
presidency. The only thing that is different is the names. Instead of the Clintons, it is the Stantons who are
slumming their way to the White House. The movie is filled with A-list stars who deliver solid performances. John Travolta
— who plays Governor Jack Stanton (Bill Clinton) — is very convincing. Billy Bob Thornton as a James Carville-type advisor
turns in a funny, scene-stealing performance. Kathy Bates and Emma Thompson also turn in convincing, heartfelt performances.

It must be noted that I did not read the novel “Primary Colors,” so I could not get into the
book-was-better-than-the-movie debate. Without any preconceived expectations, I really enjoyed the movie. Although the ending was somewhat predictable, the journey there
was entertaining. Grade: B+

Upcoming Events:
- Colesnover tan Vardar tone te Union attic. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
- Art Exhibits. There are a couple to choose from. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the VAC.
- Colk ker, brought to you by the College G.O.P.’s. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
- Jumpin’ Java. They have free raisins. You like raisins. 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
- Dr. Maxine. Brought to you by the History dept. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.
- Finance Workshop. A Women’s Month event. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the Home Room.
- Twenty-one Year Old Night. Drink, because you can.
- CROP Lunch. Mmm: crops! 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m in the 900 Room.
- Dr. George Ainslie. Sponsored by the Philosophy department. 4:30 - 6:00 p.m. in the Home Room.
- Climbing Wall. Friendly wall will let students climb on it. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
- Dr. Robert Ward. Speaker. 11:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. at the VAC.
- Poetry Reading. Sponsored by the English department. 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. in the Home Room.
- Prof. Alan Dundes. Speaker, sponsored by the Anthropology department. 4:30-6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
- Robert Hill Long, poet. One of Davidson's own reads his poetry. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
- “Dang Li posed to the ssale kind. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
- Housing Lottery. Everyone gets to play.It had moments of light-hearted humor, “Primary Colors” is truly, on a deeper level,
a disturbing film. Stanton’s slimy ways really hit home on a personal, human level in the film. Should we have
to settle for such a slimeball even if he may have some good ideas? “Primary Colors” asks this and many
other difficult questions about our political system. It is worth watching.

National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship in Sculpture in 1988. Her work is currently on view at Hunter College of
the City of New York’s Lubesdorf Gallery at 68th Street and Lexington Avenue, in the exhibition, “Roots and Reeds: The
Amazing Grace of the Gullah People.” She has had solo exhibitions at the Tyler School of Art, Pennsylvania; CompassRose Gallery,
Chicago; Fayerweather Gallery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville; San Diego State University Art Gallery, California; Elizabeth Leach Gallery, Portland, Oregon; Zolla/Lieberman
Gallery, Chicago, and Galerie Lelong, New York, among others. Newman has exhibited widely in group shows including “Art in Chicago,
1945-1995,” the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago; “The Pervasiveness of Memory,” The Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, DC; “Rubber Soul,”
LedisFlam Gallery, N.Y.; “Art on Paper,” The Weatherspoon Gallery, UNC-Greensboro; “Natural Science,” John Gibson Gallery, N.Y.; “The Object Transformed,” Minneapolis
College of Art and Design; “Sculptors on Paper: New Work,” Madison Art Center, Madison, Wis., and “Present at the Creation,”
Cultural Center, Chicago, Ill., among others.

Newman’s work has been reviewed in “ArtForum,” “Art in America,” “Artnews,” “Artpapers,” “Art Week,” “Dialogue,” “Flash Art,” the “New Art
Examiner,” “The New Yorker,” The New York Times, Chicago Sun-Times, The Chicago Tribune, “Chicago Magazine,” Los Angeles Times, and USA
Today, among others. She is represented by Galerie Lelong, New York. A complete bibliography and résumé are available upon request
from Galerie Lelong.

Davidson College’s Visual Arts Center is located at 315 North Main Street in Davidson, N.C. All events of the Van
Every/Smith Galleries are free and the public is cordially invited. Guest parking is available behind the Visual Arts Center. Regular
gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays and noon to 4 p.m. weekends. For more information, please call
(704) 892-2519, (702) 892-2344, or e-mail penesbit@davidson.edu. On weekends, the gallery desk can be reached at 892-2520.

Body Health Advisors wanted. Inquire within.

By Eric Borgstrom

This week, we are writing to encourage our fellow students to apply for one of the four Health Advisor positions.
Applications will be available in the next few weeks, and the new Health Advisors will be meeting together by the
end of the semester. This year was the first year for the Health Advisor positions, so there is still a
large amount of flexibility in the job. As for duties, we are responsible for freshman orientation, portions of PE 101,
hall programming, and various other activities, usually pertaining to the different health awareness weeks. Much of our work is behind
the scenes, helping out with health-oriented activities like National Smoke-Out Day, Depression Awareness Day, and Alcohol Awareness Week. Most of
all, our jobs are a lot of fun, and we get to hang out with the sex lady, Georgia Ringle.
Our most memorable experience was probably the FLAG Fashion Show, where we got to look like fools and support tolerance
and health awareness all at the same time. If you are interested at all, please contact the Student Health Center,
Georgia Ringle, or one of the Health Advisors. We welcome any questions you have about the Health Advisor positions and
encourage everyone to apply.

Cheap Donuts. 25 cents each. 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Vendor Fair. That's all they told us. 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

Russ White arrival. Enrico returns — “How good is THAT?” 3:00 p.m. at Charlotte-Douglas Int'l Airport.

Tye-dye with Ada Jenkins. I hear she can tye-dye like nobody's business. 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. on Chambers Lawn.

Corey Devices. 4:00 - 5:00 p.m. in Camp-Out. That's all they told us. 8:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. at Erwin
Lodge.

Shakespeare rehearsal. Vent thy spleens, ye barnacles. 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Rape Aggression Defense. Self-explanatory. 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Georgia Ringle. 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Kayak rolling. Roll some kayaks. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. at Cannon Pool.

FLAG Sexuality Forum. Because you're sick of rolling kayaks. 9:30 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jennifer Cooke. Sponsored by Georgia Ringle. 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday Afternoon Club. "Beer: on a Friday afternoon? Why not? 4:30 - 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Spades Tournament. More practice singing “I love it when you call me Big Papa.” 7:30 - 10:00 p.m. at the
Outpost.

A Night at the Apollo. Pretend it's not just Love Auditorium in disguise. 8:00 - 10:00 p.m. in said auditorium.

Room in the Inn. Starting at 4:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym...

Casino Night. Poker chips galore. 9:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Davidson Outdoors trips. Rafting, backpacking, yard Fields Day Hike. Look into ‘em. All day long.

Gae-huel Workshop. If this doesn't intrigue you, nothing will. 2:00 - 4:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

The Great Strides Walk. For more information, contact Tyrone Wade. 3:00 - 4:00 p.m. “on campus.”

Java. Without bagels or quesadillas, it's the Outpost “au naturel.” 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Student Voice Recital. Students sing. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Spring Frolics. Publicity begins this week.

Jumpin’ Java. Drown your sorrows in gallons of coffee. For free. Did somebody say “free?” 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
at the Outpost.

Amadeus Trio. Professional string trio wraps up DC Concert Series. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Davidsonian staff meeting. Tomorrow night at 9:00 p.m. in the T.V. Lounge. Bring a friend.
