BY ANDY FULFORD
Staff Writer

The Men’s Tennis Team experienced a rough road trip this past week to Greenville, South Carolina. The ‘Cats came into
the match with Furman University having just won a tight match the day before against conference opponent UNC Greensboro, 4-3.
Unfortunately, when the two top teams in the conference squared off on Thursday, the Paladins were much more in control
of the match.

Davidson’s ace, John Pastel, matched up early against Sam Schroerlucke, who defeated Pastel in last year’s Conference Championship. This year
Schroerlucke proved he was up to the challenge again, defeating Pastel in three sets, 6-1, 3-6, 6-4. That disappointment pretty
much set the stage for the entire day. The sole win for the ‘Cats was the number two doubles team
of Pastel and Junior Scott Briggs taking the match, but it was not enough to gain the one doubles’ point.
The Furman men made their case for SoCon supremacy, winning the match 7-0.

On Sunday, the Wildcats redeemed themselves with a domination of another conference opponent, VMI. On a beautiful afternoon with an
enthusiastic crowd gathering, the ‘Cats shut out the Keydets, 7-0. With Pastel taking the day off, sophomore Brett Ialacci filled
in nicely, taking a three-set victory, 5-7, 7-6, 6-3. Senior Jeff Tonidandel won easily at 2 in straight sets, 6-3,
6-2. Sophomore Alex Okulski wiped up the three seed quickly, 6-2, 6-2. Briggs played a tight first set before deciding
to finish the match quickly so he could go sit in the sun. He won in straight sets, 7-6, 6-1.
Freshmen Whit Hansen and Billy Boykin took the 5 and 6 seeds respectively, 6-2, 6-1, and 6-2, 6-2. The ‘Cats
had wrapped up the doubles’ point earlier in the afternoon, 3-0. #1 seed Ted Kaplan and Judson Sutherland took their
match 8-2. Briggs/Okulski took #2 8-1, and Tonidandel and junior Ty Epp made it a sweep with their 8-3 victory
in the 3 seed.

After a busy week, the Wildcats are now 13-8 overall and 5-2 in the Southern Conference. They have a well-deserved
rest this week, with their only match coming this Sunday at Wofford.

Anna dudy @ Rookie Whit Hansen shakes hands with his VMI opponent. Hansen, the #5 player for the Wildcats, won
his match in straight sets, 6-2, 6-1, as Davidson swept VMI.

Baseball back in playoff race with two wins over App. State
BY BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

This weekend, the baseball team showed that Davidson owns Appalachian State in other sports than basketball. While the Cats didn’t
sweep the Mountaineers like they did in basketball, they left Boone winning two out of three. The Wildcats, who had
been badly slumping, desperately needed these victories. Once again, hitting was the key for Davidson.

In the first game in Saturday’s doubleheader, the outcome was never in doubt. This was due to an eight-run inning
in the top of the fourth. After first baseman Stew Sloan walked, Marshall Tyler hit his sixth double of the
year. With men on second and third, freshman Jeremiah Parvin singled home Sloan. Tyler followed Sloan home when the App
St. catcher made an error. Catcher Kurt Davis, who has been hitting very well of late, hit his third home
run of the year. The Cats now led 5-0. After Drew Williams and Ben Brown both reached base, Brian Joyce
bunted down the third base line for a single. Williams scored. After Joyce stole his sixteenth base of the year,
centerfielder Luke Goodwin singled to left field. Both men scored on the play. Goodwin eventually scored on a Sloan double
as the Cats batted around in the inning. By the end of the inning, Davidson led 9-0.

This gave Davidson starter Wes Self all the cushion he needed. Self pitched great in his first five innings. Through
three innings, he only gave up one hit. In the bottom of the fourth, he surrendered a home run to
ASU’s DH Stephen Crater. Still, Self regained his composure as he pitched perfect innings in the fifth and sixth. Self
also managed five strikeouts on the afternoon. While Self pitched well, the offense continued to increase the Wildcat lead. In
the top of the sixth, Joyce homered for the second time this season. Davidson scored their eleventh run when they
perfectly executed a double steal. Goodwin stole home.

The best outing of Self’s young career was tarnished a bit when Appalachian scored four runs in the bottom of
the seventh. Once again, a Wildcat starter was kept in for too long. In this inning, the Mountaineers homered twice
to cut the lead.Deficit to 11-6. Davidson continued to rip the ASU pitching the next inning. After Sloan got his
second hit of the game, right fielder Parvin hit the second home run of his collegiate career. Mike DeSimone closed
the game with a perfect inning in the ninth. Self won his first game as a Davidson starter. The final
score was 14-7. It was good to see that the Cats were capable of completely dominating a game from start
to finish. For once, the game was never in doubt. On a day where Davidson managed fourteen runs on eighteen
hits, there were many exemplary performances. Ben Brown went 3 for 6 with an RBI. Brian Joyce homered, stole two
bases, and had 2 RBIs. Kurt Davis and Jeremiah Parvin both had three hits and 3 RBIs apiece.

The second game on Saturday was quite different from the opener. Unlike the first, neither team ever had the upper
hand. Also, neither team had strong pitching performances. After Davidson jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead, ASU answered with
five runs in the bottom of the first. Appalachian St. ripped Davidson starter Eric Bowers for five runs on seven
hits. Davidson came back in the second with five runs of their own. After Kurt Davis was hit by a
pitch and two singles by Drew Williams and Ben Brown, the bases were loaded. The Cats took advantage of an
error by the ASU shortstop, as Joyce reached first and Davis and Williams scored. With one out, DH Mike DeSimone
singled home Brown. Once again, the Cats were aggressive as they stole home for the second time in the series.
DeSimone scored the final run of the inning as he scored on a Parvin sacrifice fly. The hits and runs
just kept on coming for both squads as Appalachian scored two more runs in the second. By the end of
the third, the score was 8-7 Mountaineers. By now, Mountaineers starter Matt King was long gone having worked only one
inning.

See Baseball on page 14

BY BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After dropping games with strong teams Duke and the University of Richmond, Davidson looked for some easy victories this past
week. In the end, the Davidson lacrosse team won two out of its three games. In their two wins, Davidson
won handily. They defeated Drexel 15-10 on Tuesday and Limestone 17-7 on Sunday.

In Tuesday’s game, Davidson was led by a very balanced attack. Both the attack and defense were strong as the
Cats built a 6-3 halftime lead. In the second half, Davidson got out to a great start as they quickly
increased their lead to eight. Davidson now led 12-4. Towards the end of the contest, Davidson tired a bit. After
the Wildcats took a 14-6 lead into the final ten minutes, Drexel attempted a furious comeback. In several minutes, Drexel
cut the lead to 14-10. Katie Williams deflated the comeback and assured the Wildcats of victory as she scored late
in the match. In the game, Davidson was led by Linda Rothemund. Rothemund had an excellent game as she tallied
four goals and four assists. Davidson was also helped with strong performances by Katie Williams and Amanda Fleck. Both Williams
and Fleck had three goals and one assist. Katie Nelson had two goals, while Lindsay Hughes contributed one. Freshmen continued
to play an important role for Davidson as both Lauren Kenchington and Liz Hoekstra each scored. For Hoekstra, it was
her first collegiate goal as she scored off a Linda Rothemund assist early in the second half.

After losing to Notre Dame on Friday night, Davidson prepared to rebound at Limestone College on Sunday. Davidson took out
all their frustrations on Limestone as they won easily by a score of 17-7. Even without star Katie Williams, who
is currently injured, the game was never in doubt. Davidson jumped out to an 8-4 halftime lead, before crushing Limestone
9-3 in the second half. Other players picked up the scoring in Williams’ absence as five Davidson players scored at
least three goals each.

See Lacrosse on page 15

Baseball
Wednesday vs. Wake Forest (3:00)

The lacrosse team greets the Drexel squad at midfield after a solid 15-10 Davidson win. Rothemund sets new school records
in two lacrosse wins.

Baseball vs. GSU
Saturday doubleheader @ UNC-Chapel Hill (12:00)
Sunday vs. Georgia Southern (1:00)

Men’s & Women’s Track and Field
Friday-Saturday Duke Invitational @ Duke

Lacrosse
Wednesday vs. Virginia Tech (3:30)
Saturday @ American (1:00)
Sunday @ Monmouth (3:00)

Men’s Tennis
Sunday @ Wofford (1:00)
Monday vs. East Tennessee State (2:00)

Women’s Tennis
Saturday vs. East Tennessee State (2:00)
Sunday @ Furman (1:00)

After scoring eight points in the Cats' win over Drexel, Rothemund broke two school records in the game against Limestone.
She set a new record for points in a game with 11 and also broke Sarah Hogan’s record of 32
career assists. Rothemund finished the game with 36 career assists.

Following two key wins over Appalachian State this weekend, the team has a chance to strengthen its chances of making
the Southern Conference tournament against the Eagles of Georgia Southern.
