_muepavinso"wn SS SPORTS —______tuesday, march 24, 1998_

Ebong - SoCon’s best sixth man and the Wildcat’s best player

MVP Award

~ BY MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Senior Staff Writer

Ebong was arguably the best player in the Southern Conference in the last six weeks of the regular season, as the Wildcats ripped off 12 straight en route to clinching their first NCAA tournament berth since 1986.

Coincidence? Hardly.

Languishing at 6-8 after a loss to VMI Jan. 12 at Belk Arena, Davidson won 14 of its last 16, the only losses coming to UMass Jan. 22 and Michigan in the first round of the NCAAs. During the furious stretch-run span, the 6-foot-6 Omaha, Neb., native averaged 11.9 points and 7.1 rebounds, establishing himself as the Southern’s most potent sixth man.

He finished the season with averages of 9.4 points and a team-high 6.2 rebounds a contest.

In the three-game conference tournament the first weekend of spring break at the Greensboro Coliseum, Ebong scored 12 points and 8.3 rebounds a game, picking up tourney MVP honors.

Forward Ben Ebong was a force in the paint for Davidson. His play, which continued to improve all season, helped carry the team into the NCAAs.

Marshall surpasses all expectations this season

Most Improved Player Award

BY MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Senior Staff Writer

It’s not that Marshall lacked talent last year as a freshman. He just wasn’t on the court enough to show it.

After missing the first five weeks of the regular season due to a bout with Hepatitis A and then spraining his ankle in late January, the 6-foot-8 forward never truly got into game shape as a rookie. Plus, with classmate Landry Kosmalski storming his way to Southern Conference Freshman of the Year honors, Marshall easily became the forgotten man.

But in this year’s season opener Nov. 20 at Duke, the Midlothian, Va. product demonstrated his sometimes unstoppable inside capabilities, going for 20 points and 14 rebounds against the Blue Devils, the No. 1 team in the nation for the majority of the year.

While Marshall was far from a model of consistency, he was the key for the Wildcats in several big games. The post player went for 20 against Appalachian Jan. 31 in Boone - one of a couple of definitive turning points for Davidson in 1997-98 - and erupted for a career-high 27 in the league semifinals versus The Citadel.

Stephen Marshall has blossomed from his small role off the bench last season to become one of the Wildcats’ greatest offensive threats.

The Brothers of BAO present the 3rd Annual

Golfing

Mexico/Caribbean or Central America only $200 round trip.
Europe only $179 one way.
Other worldwide destinations cheap.

"ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER!"

Air Tech Limited - (212)-219-7000
www.AirTech.com

To sign up to play in the tournament, contact John Steffen at x6808.