THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

_TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1998_

Men’s soccer hopes for a promising season

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

Last year, the Davidson Wildcats had a roller coaster ride of a season. It was a year of many highs and lows. After an awful start, the Cats won seven of their last nine games to finish a respectable 10-11. It was also a year in which Pat Miller, Dane Erickson, and David Buehler all became stars as freshmen. Buehler was Southern Conference Freshman of the Year, while Miller and Erickson were All-Conference selections. By the end of the year, the Cats had shown signs of their past greatness as they defeated four nationally ranked teams (Furman, UNC-G, Georgia Southern, and Wake Forest). With only three seniors gone from last year’s team, the Cats look to build on last year’s successes.

This year, the Cats will employ a 3-5-2 formation. This formation is tailored for a strong defensive team. The goalkeeping duties will be shared between Brad Stroble and Marshall Tyler. By the end of last season, Stroble was playing up to the level of his predecessor at both Davidson and Greenwich (CT.) High, Alex Deegan. Unfortunately, Stroble was recently injured and will sit out the opener against UNCC. Therefore, Tyler, who played admirably in his few outings last season, will get the start. Regarding the keeper situation, Head Coach Charlie Slagle said, “We have the luxury of having two keepers who can definitely excel at the Division I level. At the same time, this is a drawback since we can only have one keeper on the field at a time. Therefore, whoever’s playing better will start.”

In the backfield, Andy Lanoha will start at sweeper, while Pat Miller and junior Lawrence Cann will be on the wings. Sophomore Andy Murray, a transfer from Notre Dame, will also see substantial time at sweeper. He will start for the injured Lanoha in the opener against UNCC. Senior Fred Ryser will also get quality playing time in the backfield. While it is a relatively young backfield (two sophomores and one junior), defense is arguably the Cats' strongest position.

The midfield is also strong as five starters return. The “three Ds,” Drew Lindsey, Dane Erickson, and Dave Buehler will control the center. Senior Jeff Harrell and junior Hart Roper will play the wings. Last year, these five players combined for twenty-two of the team’s thirty-nine goals. Buehler was the high man with six as he led the team with 15 points (6G-3A-15PTS). Roper (5-4-14) and Lindsey (5-2-12) tallied five goals each, and Erickson (3-7-13) led the team with seven assists. Freshman Paul Watson, whom Coach Slagle said, “has been outstanding in practice,” is guaranteed to get minutes in the midfield. Other reserves include Chris Murray and Tim Helfrich. Twin brothers Jeremy and Derek Kilburn, standouts at North Meck, have impressed in practice and will play some.

Two juniors, Andrew Holbrook and Randy Culbertson, lead the forwards. In the past, finishing off opportunities has been a major concern for the Cats. Hopefully, things will change this year. Holbrook is coming off an excellent sophomore campaign where he tallied four goals and four assists. Holbrook is also one of the hardest workers on the team as he is a constant pest for opposing defenders. His hustle will certainly lead to more scoring opportunities. Culbertson, who started all but one game last year, hopes to improve on last year’s campaign in which he scored three goals. One of these goals was one of the most memorable in recent Davidson soccer history. Last October, against UNC-G, Culbertson scored on a free-kick in overtime to give the Cats a 3-2 victory over the then 21st ranked Spartans. Seniors Wes Roach and Rich Kleiman will provide the necessary leadership up front off the bench. Also expected to contribute at forward are junior Dan Ford and sophomore Ikenna Myers.

As usual, Davidson has one of the toughest schedules in the nation. Slagle believes it may be the toughest in several years. It includes defending National Champion UCLA, ACC powers Duke, Wake, and UNC, and South Carolina. This does not even include Southern Conference contenders Furman, UNC-G, and Georgia Southern, all of whom were nationally ranked last season. While such a demanding schedule may lead to more losses, Slagle has good reasons for making the schedule so tough. He said, “We make the schedule so that if we win thirteen or fourteen games, we have put ourselves in excellent shape for an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. Several years ago, William & Mary won sixteen games but played a weak schedule. As a result, they didn’t make the tournament. We want to make sure that does not happen to us.” This year could be the year that Davidson returns to the tournament. While making the tournament is obviously a goal of the team, its first priorities are to win more than ten games and be at the top of the Southern Conference. While some may be skeptical of such high aspirations for such a young team, Slagle responds, “We’re young, but very experienced. We had four guys (Buehler, Erickson, Lanoha, and Miller) who started as freshmen and who are constantly improving.” As a result, expect the Cats to contend for the Southern Conference title.

The Cats' opener is against UNCC on September 1st. The home opener is against Rider on Friday evening on Richardson Field.

Best of luck to all of our fall sports teams.

A frosty blend of Coffee, Coffee BuzzBuzzBuzz!™ ice cream & rich, creamy coffee

© Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Holdings, Inc. 1998. Ben & Jerry’s is a trademark of D.C. Enterprises, Inc. and is used with permission.

202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

No PHOTOS THIS WEEK.

WANT THERE TO BE PHOTOS NEXT WEEK? CALL SALLIE (x6803). SHE'LL BE HAPPY.