Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Ian Kaplan, Sophomore

The choice for MVP is a clear one and has been all season - Ian Kaplan. Following the Southern Conference Tournament, Kaplan had an overall record of 28-5. He was 15-0 in dual meets and also finished 5-0 in Southern Conference play, better than any other wrestler in the conference at his weight. After finishing third in the conference tournament, Kaplan was chosen by the conference coaches as one of three wild card picks to the NCAAs. An All-Conference selection, Kaplan also led the Wildcats with ten pins on the season, one of which came in an astounding 18 seconds.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WRESTLING

Kaplan the clear MVP; Libersat, Albert, Wall collect honors as well

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

Top ROOKIE AWARD

Jeff Libersat, Freshman

On a squad that was filled with rookies who were a vital part of the team, Jeff Libersat stood out as the best among them. Libersat finished with a 20-8 record on the season, second only to Ian Kaplan in wins. He was 10-4 in the team’s dual meets. Entering as a fifth seed, Libersat rallied in the conference tournament, going 3-1 to claim third place in the 167 weight class. Including the conference tournament, Libersat placed in three tournaments this season. He claimed second at the VMI tournament, the first of the season, and finished first at the Washington & Lee tournament.

Most-Improved AWARD

Anthony Albert, Freshman

After struggling somewhat at the beginning of the season, rookie Anthony Albert greatly improved his performance in the second half of the regular season. Wrestling at 142 and occasionally at 150, Albert was splitting time with senior Andy Sterling and did not place in either of the first two tournaments in which the ‘Cats competed. Albert then went on a tear, placing in the final three tournaments of the season, including the extremely competitive Southern Conference Tournament. Albert defied the odds to place fourth in the conference tournament, in which he was 2-2.

LEADERSHIP AWARD

Ben Wall, Senior

When fellow co-captain George Escarvage was sidelined in the beginning of the season, much of the responsibility for leadership fell on the shoulders of senior Ben Wall. As a veteran who had been to the Southern Conference finals the previous year, Wall provided that leadership to a fairly young team. Wall wrestled in the critical heavyweight class and often had to bear the stress of wrestling the final match, which could mean the difference between a win and a loss for the team. Wall finished the season with a 13-10 overall record and placed in two tournaments this season.

TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1998

Kaplan’s

Davidson’s most successful wrestler represented its most successful wrestling squad in decades.

Kaplan from page 16

Kaplan, as a wild card, was thrown in against some of the top seeds in the tournament, and in the first round he faced Jeff Weiland of

---the University of Maryland. Weiland defeated Kaplan by a score of 8-2 (which, incidentally, is much less of a pounding than was delivered by Michigan two weeks ago). A first-round defeat was in the cards for Kaplan, who was put in a Michigan-Davidson scenario upon entering the tournament. It was definitely not a Kansas-Prarie View scenario, but unfortunately was not reminiscent of Valpo either. Then again, none of those analogies work, because none of those underdog schools would have received an at-large bid. In the wrestlebacks, Kaplan was on equal footing with his opponent from Lockhaven College. The match was very tight and ended in a 4-3 loss for Kaplan, which ended his tournament run and ended the 1997-98 wrestling season at Davidson. It was the most successful season in over a decade at Davidson, and sending a wrestler to the NCAA tournament capped off the year nicely.

By Alison Kalett
Staff Writer

Lady Wildcat Basketball team enjoys great season; O’Brien, Montrella, and Brown garner individual honors

MVP AWARD
In only her sophomore season, Co-Most Improved Player Awards #12 guard Jen O’Brien broke records made over entire college careers. O’Brien finished this season as the Southern Conference’s leader in assists (6.8), three-point percentage (44.8), and steals (3.2). O’Brien also led the team in minutes played (35.6), free throws (93), three-point percentage, and points per game (17). O’Brien also made her mark nationally, finishing 11th in assists and 17th in three-point percentage. Because of these achievements and the obvious leadership she brings to the team, she is the most valuable player on the 1997-1998 Davidson women’s basketball team.

In only her sophomore season at Davidson, O’Brien has already set the school record for assists and has scored over 600 career points.

It is very difficult to identify one clear most improved player in a season with so many ups and downs and so many outstanding performances. For this reason, I nominated two players whose individual efforts not only improved throughout the season, but whose play led to overall team improvement.

First, Jessica Montrella averaged an outstanding 12.2 points per game while leading the team in free-throw percentage. In the Southern Conference, Montrella finished second in free-throw percentage and fifth in blocks.

Second, Kerry Brown was key in Davidson’s success. She led the team in rebounds (166) while adding an impressive 10.4 points per game. In the conference, Brown finished the 97-98 season seventh in assists, ninth in shots blocked, and 11th in steals.

Montrella and Brown both improved throughout the season while lifting the play of their teammates.

On a final note, often when individual recognition is given, others are left out. It should be noted that all members of the Lady Wildcats Basketball team had outstanding seasons, and that the team’s success was made possible only by group effort and dedication.