Catamounts sweep Davidson over weekend

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

Going into this weekend’s series with Western Carolina, expectations for any Davidson victories were pretty low. Western Carolina, the favorite in the Southern Conference, entered the series with a 16-6 record. Even more impressive is the fact that the Catamounts have been nationally ranked in recent years, and that they have competed in the College World Series in the 90s. Given Western’s success, the Catamounts presented quite a challenge for the struggling Wildcats.

At the end of the weekend, Western was extremely fortunate to win all three games. For two out of the three games, Davidson gave the Catamounts all they could handle. One area in which the Wildcats showed improvement was starting pitching. Two freshmen, Ryan Stroker and Wes Self, both gave strong efforts against Western Carolina. Stroker, in his best outing since his debut against Cincinnati, allowed just two runs on three hits in his first five innings of work. In Sunday’s second game, Self pitched well during the first six innings. Backed by strong hitting, the Wildcats led 7-4 after six. Unfortunately, both pitchers were left on the mound too long. In the later innings, the Catamounts hit the Cats hard.

In Saturday’s game, Western jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead. Davidson answered in the bottom of the first. Ben Brown led off the game with a single to left field. Brown then stole his eighth base of the season and advanced to third on an error. Brian Joyce drove in Brown on a sacrifice hit. After Western regained the lead in the top of the third, Davidson tied the game at two in the bottom of the fifth. Catcher Kurt Davis singled to get things started. When it looked like Davis would be stranded at first, left fielder Joyce reached first on an error by the Catamounts' Jeff Sziksai. Taking advantage of the mistake, center fielder Luke Goodwin singled Davis home.

The Catamounts took the lead for good in the following inning. Three runs were scored on three hits. Jeff Sziksai, Dave McKay, and Jeremy Bruce all singled in a row. Still, it could have been worse as Stroker was saved when catcher Frankie Ward lined out to second for a double play. Still, the Wildcats were not done scoring. Mike DeSimone continued his torrid hitting as he doubled down the right field line. With one out, third baseman Ryan Conatser singled and DeSimone advanced to third. DeSimone scored on a slow roller to third base. Then Kurt Davis got his second single of the game. Conatser scored, and the score was now 5-4 Western.

The nail in Davidson’s coffin occurred when Western’s DH Chuck Koone hit a grand slam home run. Koone had an awesome day from the plate as he went 4 for 5 with 4 RBIs. After the home run, Stroker was finally taken out. The final score was 11-6. Mike DeSimone was the star for Davidson as he went 4 for 5 with 2 RBIs. Marshall Tyler and Kurt Davis both had two hits and an RBI apiece.

In the first game on Sunday, Davidson could only manage two runs on four hits. Catamounts ace pitcher Mark DiFelice improved to 5-0 on the season as Western Carolina won 12-2. DiFelice went five innings, surrendering only two runs on three hits. He also struck out six Davidson batters. Davidson began the game well as they scored two runs in the bottom of the first. After a Ben Brown triple, Luke Goodwin homered for the third time this season. After a Stewart Sloan single later in the inning, the Catamount pitchers completely dominated the rest of the game. The only other Wildcat hit of the game was a single by pinch hitter Tom McGintee in the seventh. For Western, Jeff Sziksai had a strong performance as he went 3 for 4 with 4 RBIs.

The most disappointing loss of the weekend came in the finale as Davidson couldn’t hold on to a three-run lead in the seventh inning. The final score was 9-7. It was an ugly game as the two teams combined for fourteen errors. The Wildcats took advantage of these errors as they turned two errors into two runs in the first. After Ben Brown was hit by a pitch, Brian Joyce reached base on an error. Luke Goodwin then hit into a fielder’s choice with Brown advancing to third. After Goodwin was caught stealing, DeSimone tripled to center field, scoring Brown. DeSimone scored when Stewart Sloan reached first on an error by the pitcher.

After giving up two runs in the top of the second, the Cats came back with two more in their half of the third. Both Goodwin and DeSimone walked. Then with two outs, Marshall Tyler doubled down the left field line. Both runners scored. Davidson increased their lead to 7-4 in the bottom of the fifth. Goodwin opened the inning with a single. DeSimone then reached first on one of the Catamounts' eight errors. Sloan drove in Goodwin with a single to right field. The error fest continued when Western’s new pitcher Chris Waters' pickoff move resulted in an error by the second baseman. Both Sloan and DeSimone advanced on the error. Marshall Tyler picked up his third RBI of the game when he drove DeSimone home. Sloan later scored the Cats' final run on a wild pitch.

After this point, it was all downhill for Davidson. In the seventh inning, Davidson committed two costly errors which led to two unearned runs. Doing the damage for Western were right fielder Charles Thomas and left fielder Chuck Koone. With the game knotted at seven, Western Carolina scored the winning run in the top of the eighth. New pitcher DeSimone was greeted with a double by Frankie Ward. Tracy Biggs pinch ran for Ward. Biggs proceeded to steal third. After a DeSimone strikeout, Charles Thomas had the game-winning RBI as he singled to left field. Davidson almost came back in the ninth as both DeSimone and Sloan had singles. Yet, the comeback would fall short. Davidson lost 9-7. DeSimone, Sloan, and Tyler all had strong games at the plate. Davidson hopes to bounce back against UNC-Asheville on Tuesday afternoon.

Golf squad’s play improves at East Carolina Invitational

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

The finishes are almost meaningless to the Davidson golf team. It would be difficult to find another team whose place in the standings so poorly reflected its performance. In the past two weekends, the squad played two tournaments against a total of 31 teams. The first of these two was the UNCC/Birkdale Invitational in Huntersville March 13-15.The second was the East Carolina Invitational in Greenville, NC, this weekend. At Birkdale, none of the players had exceptionally good days, and the team finished poorly, shooting 70 over par for the tournament for a 15th place finish. At East Carolina, the team improved significantly to finish 37 over par. As for the place in the standings? The improvement and hard work earned the team a 17th place finish. What gives? Facing tough competition at Birkdale from Kansas, Virginia Commonwealth, Virginia Tech, North Carolina, and others, the team finished last after a disappointing outing. Leading the pack for Davidson was freshman Austin Ziegler, who shot a 231 in the tournament to finish 15 over and tie for 39th place. Jason Lina and Dave Alexander finished a stroke behind Ziegler to tie for 43rd. Senior Andy McDaniel shot a 241 on the day for 72nd, and freshman Sean Davidson shot 243 to claim 74th. The Columbus golf squad won the match, shooting 11 over par, 59 strokes better than the Wildcats.

In Greenville, Davidson entered the same five golfers in the tournament. The results were much more pleasant. Of the five Wildcat golfers in the tournament, four shot better than Ziegler’s team-best 231 at Birkdale a week prior. The fifth was Sean Davidson, who missed the mark by a single stroke to finish 232, which gave him sole possession of 86th place. Previously, Ziegler’s 231 had given him a tie for 39th place. In Greenville, Dave Alexander led the way for Davidson with a 224 for the tournament, and tied for 56th. Lina and Ziegler shot 227 for the tournament to tie for 73rd. McDaniel was a shot behind them to tie for 78th. This was the story of not only the Wildcats, but every team at Greenville. Their scores were low, and everyone was amazed that their names were not higher in the rankings. That is, everyone except for Maryland, which ultimately won the tournament by shooting a miraculous three under as a team for the tournament. Davidson shot 901 as a team, 37 over par. This is one of the best finishes in recent Davidson history, but it could have been even better.

According to Alexander, the ‘Cats main problem has been consistency. This is reflected in the scores from Greenville. Davidson was 11 over after the first round, and then four over after the second. The final round was made more difficult by a different course setup and changing winds, but probably not enough to justify the team’s drop to 37 over par. Alexander stated, “We’ve been routinely playing two good rounds of golf and then one bad one. If we're going to be at the top, we have to play at the same level in all three rounds.” The scenario was scarcely different at Birkdale, where the team played two rounds of average golf and one poor round. The upside to the performance at the East Carolina tournament is that two of the rounds were good. That ideal third round is what the team has to strive for.

Kaplan’s season ends after trip to NCAA tournament

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

Davidson goes to the NCAA tournament. First time in years. Press coverage and road trips with people painting themselves red and white. Basketball, right? Wrong. Wrestling. That’s right. Davidson has sent two athletic representatives to the NCAA tournament. The first, the men’s basketball team. The second, Ian Kaplan. Kaplan, the star wrestler of the Wildcat squad who went 28-5 this season and the only wrestler in the 150 weight class to go undefeated in the Southern Conference this year, headed to the NCAA tournament this past weekend.

The basketball team did one thing that Kaplan did not do - they received an automatic berth. Kaplan did not. He came in third in his class at the conference tournament, which meant that he was not assured a spot on the conference team going to the tournament. After the Southern Conference Tournament, the winner of each of the ten weight classes is given a spot in the NCAA Tournament. In addition to these ten spots, wild cards are also awarded. The conference wrestling coaches convene to vote on the players who did not win their classes. Those who receive the most votes may have a chance to go to the NCAA tournament as a wild card. This year, the coaches voted to send three Southern Conference wrestlers to the tournament in addition to the ten who won their weight classes. Kaplan was one of these wrestlers.

Kaplan essentially did what the basketball team of two years ago, upset by Western Carolina in the finals of the conference tournament, had hoped to do. He did what this year’s basketball team would not have done. He received an at-large bid. That’s something we don’t see around Davidson too much. It is clear from the resume that he put together this season that Kaplan was very deserving of this recognition. He lost only six matches through the regular season and tournament play. He lost only one Southern Conference match all year. Unfortunately, he picked a bad time for that loss, and it cost him a victory in the conference championship. Kaplan placed in each of the five tournaments in which he wrestled this season, a feat which no other Davidson wrestler was able to accomplish. Rookies Jeff Libersat and Anthony Albert were the closest, both placing in three different tournaments.

see Kaplan on page 13

Baseball
Western Carolina 11, Wildcats 5.
Western Carolina 12, Wildcats 2
Western Carolina 9, Wildcats 7

Golf
Fifteenth at UNCC/Birkdale Invitational
Seventeenth at East Carolina Invitational

Women’s Tennis
Wildcats 8, App. State 1

INSIDE
DSS Wrestling Awards, p. 13
DSS Men’s Basketball Awards, p. 14
DSS Women’s Awards, p. 13
Women’s tennis beats App., p. 15
Track teams compete at Wake Forest Invitational, p. 15

Basketball
Smyta Birrer

Women’s track & field
Birrer, who has been a solid runner for the track team as well as the cross country team in the fall, broke the school record in the 800 meter run this weekend by running a 2:18.79.

Wednesday @ Wake Forest (3:00)
Men’s Tennis vs. Appalachian State (2:00)
Men’s & Women’s Track @ Emory Track Classic
Tuesday @ Western (3:00)
Men’s Tennis vs. UNCG Wednesday @ 2:00

The men’s tennis team has been on a tear recently, and senior Jon Pastel recently defeated the #2 player in the nation after defeating the #5 player earlier in the season. The team continues its conference schedule this week with matches against UNCG.