From the minutes of Apr. 2, 1998:

- Twenty-three people applied for Order of Omega; 15 new members will be chosen. The next selection process will take
place next fall.
- The fourth eating house is currently thinking of a name, drafting a mission statement and constitution, and working with
the physical plant to renovate Pax.
- CCRL will meet on Apr. 15 to consider and vote on the Alcohol Policy Recommendations submitted by the Alcohol
Policy Committee.
- Warner Hall is off probation but may only hold BYO events for the remainder of the semester. They must
still conduct their educational programming.
- Sigma Alpha Epsilon is on probation until Apr. 15; they must still conduct a program with Bart Landess. Sigma
Alpha Epsilon’s case was redeliberated last Wednesday. Their sanctions include a $500 fine, a workshop with Bart Landess on corporate
responsibility and hazing, and alcohol probation until Oct. 1.
- Phi Delta Theta’s case was heard last Wednesday. Sanctions against them include alcohol probation until Jan. 1, programming on
pledging and alcohol awareness, and they may not have a pledge class next year. The floor was opened up for
discussion, and Alan Hyder of SAE said that these sanctions did more to damage the houses than to teach house
responsibility. There was general concern over the severity of the sanctions. PCC President Conner Eldridge pointed out that with the
Court under such scrutiny, it would not be good to let houses off easily for breaking state law as well
as school policy.
- The Easter egg hunt will be either this Thursday or Friday; each house is asked to donate whatever they
can—plastic eggs, candy, and time are all needed.
- The Erwin Lodge service project was held last Saturday, as was the ninth annual MADD Run, sponsored by Kappa
Sigma.
- Golfing for Gehrig, sponsored by Phi Delta Theta, will be held on Apr. 26 at a country club in
Statesville. All houses are asked to send teams. Prizes include a new Volvo and a trip to Scotland. All proceeds
go to fight Lou Gehrig’s Disease.
- Details for the co-sponsored band next fall are still being ironed out. A policy that no alcohol be on
the Court except for inside houses was proposed. Open parties could be held, but no alcohol can leave the houses.
It was also suggested that each house contribute $1000 or whatever might be needed to the event. There was some
debate as to the ability of every house to donate the same amount because of the disparity in membership numbers.

By Jen Dennis, Staff Writer:

Anyone who enjoys drinking alcohol on Davidson’s campus should pay attention to the events happening in the following weeks. As
stated in the Davidson charter, the Alcohol Policy must be annually reviewed. The time for criticism of the policy has
arrived, which brings questions for the future and rumors as to what rules Davidson drinkers will have to adhere to
next year.

For the past two to three weeks, both students and faculty have given their input on the Alcohol Policy. A
committee consisting of eight members, three of whom are faculty advisors, met to discuss the language and specifics of the
current policy. The idea of a BYO policy was strongly considered. For the entire year of 1996-97, the number of
alcohol violations was 65. To date, however, there have been 71 violations, and seven weeks remain in this semester. Due
to the increase in alcohol-related incidents this year, a suggestion for all houses to become strictly BYO was considered. This
policy would prohibit alcohol from being provided by the houses, thus reducing the obligation of houses to be responsible for
their members.

Four votes were taken by the Alcohol Committee. The final vote was split, resulting in two recommendations being sent to
the Committee on Campus of Religious Life (CCRL). From CCRL, the recommendation will be sent to Dean of Students Tom
Shandley and President Bobby Vagt for consideration. Finally, the recommendation will be sent to the Board of Trustees for the
ultimate decision. Any decision differing from the present policy will not begin until next semester. A trial period of two
weeks for the BYO policy is being considered for this semester. Conner Eldridge, President of the Patterson Court Council, worries
that the trial period will be inaccurate due to the fact that the policy will be a novelty for the
students and may not seriously affect their behavior. He is against the new policy because he feels students do not
support the idea. Brian Langley, President of Phi Delta Theta, feels the same way. He understands advocating the policy because
of the present problems but does not think that the student body strongly promotes the new proposal.

“The primary concern of everyone is safety,” Eldridge explained. He feels that the BYO policy would make drinking unsafe and
unhealthy for students. Many of the alcohol-related problems on campus have been the result of individuals beginning to drink in
their rooms and becoming sick while down on the Court, making Patterson Court seem as if it is not a
place for safe drinking. Also, Eldridge pointed out, some students already feel that the Court is exclusive, and that would
be enhanced, as members not...Belonging to a particular house would feel discouraged from entering a house they could not drink
in. Essentially, part of the social atmosphere on the Court would be lost due to the new policy.

The BYO policy, however, would help some students, especially those in affiliation with either a fraternity or a house. The
social budget would receive drastic changes as the dues for alcohol decreased, as well as the amount of insurance that
the houses are currently paying decreased. The question remains as to whether the students prefer paying less money or drinking
together in a social environment.

Other items are also being considered for the Alcohol Policy along with the BYO idea. One strong recommendation is a
change in the number of people determining an impromptu party. Presently, if more than 40 people are present in a
house, it is considered an unregistered party, and the police must shut it down. The unanimous decision was to raise
the number to 60 people. Another change is that all houses must register their sister- or brotherhood functions. Under the
present system, this is not a mandatory requirement.

The “Good Samaritan” clause is another tentative suggestion. Under this clause, if a person is in need of medical attention
due to alcohol consumption, members of a house should not stall necessary help due to the fear of punishment for
their house. Though individual cases are looked at separately already, this recommendation acknowledges that individuals are essentially responsible for their
own amount of consumption of alcohol, particularly if the people have been drinking prior to their arrival at the house.

A final suggestion is designed to create safer residence halls. With this plan, Resident Advisors would not be responsible for
the drinking done on their halls and could have the possibility of drinking with their hall members behind closed doors.
This “friend” drinking could be one way for Hall Counselors to carefully watch their hall members without feeling obligated to
give violations to them. This suggestion would also prevent tension among hall members and the Hall Counselors who are responsible
for reporting their actions.

Although all of the suggestions have their positive and negative points, the essential concept behind them all is the encouragement
of safe drinking among the students while continuing to provide a strong social environment. The final decisions of the policy
will be released as soon as they are considered by the CCRL, Shandley, Vagt, and the Trustees.

REGISTER TO VOTE
STUDENTS • FACULTY • STAFF
DEADLINE: APRIL 10

This is an important election! If you want to defeat the “Gang of Five” which denied funding for the Arts,
be a part of this election.

WHERE: Registration forms can be obtained from the Davidson Public Library, corner of Main Street and Concord Road, on the
Village Green.

SUGGESTION: Register “Unaffiliated.” That way you can vote in the Republican primary and against Joel Carter, a member of the
“Gang” who represents our district.

ALREADY REGISTERED? Please consider changing your registration to “Unaffiliated.” Forms are available at the Davidson Public Library, also.

Paid for by Leland Park

Duke Endowment aids school in multiple ways

Duke from page 1

Since its conception nearly 75 years ago, the Endowment has flourished as one of the nation’s largest private foundations, with
assets totaling more than $1.73 billion.

Created to benefit the people of North and South Carolina in perpetuity, the Endowment provides assistance to health care and
child welfare organizations in both North and South Carolina, and rural United Methodist churches and retired ministers in North Carolina.
The Endowment’s Indenture of Trust also named four institutions of higher education in its provisions: Duke University, Johnson C. Smith
University, and Davidson College.

Since 1924, Davidson College has received more than $53 million in support from The Duke Endowment, making it the single
largest benefactor in Davidson’s history. This financial support has financed a number of physical projects at Davidson, including construction of
the visual arts center and life sciences building, acquisition of scientific equipment, automation of the library, and the campus-wide computer
network project.

In addition, Endowment money provides support for the philanthropic tradition on Davidson’s campus, including the Love of Learning program and
various internships. The Endowment’s continual financial support has enabled Davidson to remain as the only liberal arts college in the
Southeast consistently ranked at the top in national publications.

A significant portion of the Endowment’s financial support also goes towards the James B. Duke Scholarship, a scholarship awarded to
incoming freshmen who demonstrate exceptional academic and leadership promise. “If I hadn’t received this scholarship, I wouldn’t have been able
to attend Davidson,” said freshman scholar Laura Waddle. “Davidson was the highest-ranked school I applied to, and it’s the best
place for me to become a leader and to be challenged academically, so I am extremely grateful to the Endowment
for the opportunity.”

Other Duke Scholars include seniors Renu Bhatt and Matt Ellis, juniors Lauren Freeman and Brian Campbell, sophomores Paul Eubanks and
Lisa Worthington, and freshmen Waddle and Laura Craver.
