THE DAVIDSONIAN

Local politician addresses College Republicans

— Vinroot discusses current campaign

By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

Richard Vinroot, former Mayor of Charlotte and potential candidate for North Carolina governor, spoke to a gathering of Davidson’s College
Republicans last Tuesday. Vinroot spoke of his tenure as mayor and the ideological beliefs he hopes will help win him
the governorship in 2000.

Vinroot’s main concerns for the state and nation reflect his background. Vinroot, a Charlotte native, attended UNC-Chapel Hill on the
prestigious Morehead Scholarship and played on Dean Smith’s first basketball teams. Although Vinroot turned down a basketball scholarship here, he
said that he is still “very loyal” to Davidson. Following his graduation from UNC’s law school in 1967, Vinroot joined
the Army, where he earned a bronze star. Vinroot developed his interest in politics while working on the 1964 Goldwater
campaign for the presidency and a local county commissioner’s campaign. After serving on the Honor Council subcommittee revising the Code,
Vinroot was elected to the Charlotte City Council and later served as Mayor of Charlotte from 1991-95. In 1996, Vinroot
ran a tough race in the Republican gubernatorial primary, eventually losing to Robin Hayes. Vinroot and his wife Judy have
three children, Richard, Laura, and Katherine.

Vinroot finds education and citizen protection to be the most important issues facing the state and nation. According to Vinroot,
the government must protect its citizens while providing them with a quality education. In line with Republican ideology, Vinroot believes
in a limited government that leaves the majority of governing to the local levels. A supporter of competition, Vinroot would
like to see government programs like education run more like a competitive, efficient business and less like a monopoly.

As Mayor of Charlotte, Vinroot implemented several programs that garnered national praise for Charlotte. Charlotte has retained its wealth in
the city and built up a strong tax base. Vinroot also headed a program known as “rightsizing” that reduced the
size of the city’s administration by 10 percent by shifting workers and resources out of less important departments to more
important ones and privatizing municipal services. Vinroot also established the first Drug Court committed to prosecuting all drug-related criminals. He
supported “community policing” where police walk among the communities in an effort to make themselves visible and approachable. Such civic
programs led a national magazine to name Vinroot as America’s Number One Mayor.

Vinroot strongly supports economic development in North Carolina. The economically successful Carolina Panthers were introduced under Vinroot’s tenure. Vinroot’s efforts
to promote Charlotte in the national arena won the city a number-one ranking for Economic Development by Financial World Magazine.

When asked of his “core beliefs,” Vinroot responded with a list of four: best government is least government, local governing
as much as possible, competition in education, and the restoration of character in government. Vinroot is an advocate of charter
schools, where citizens are given a charter and are able to run the school as a business. He believes that
giving the public school system worthy competition from charter schools will improve the public system.

Further, Vinroot promises to increase funding and reform the criminal justice system if elected. Currently, he says, courts only have
the resources to prosecute about half of the cases before them. While early polls and local support seem promising for
a Vinroot victory in 2000, Vinroot still recognizes that there are major obstacles for the Republican Party to overcome. Among
these are the “gender gap,” where women are far more likely to support...Democratic candidates, and the lack of minority support
in the Republican Party. Vinroot also points to a local problem for North Carolina voters, a sense of resentment directed
at Charlotte from other regions of the state. Nevertheless, Vinroot hopes his message of improving education and citizen protection will
resonate among North Carolina’s voters.

The following are Phi Beta Kappa inductees:

By Becky LATANICH
Staff Writer

A large part of Davidson’s unique learning atmosphere can be traced directly back to the successful enforcement and respect of
the Honor Code. The Honor Code was created with the intention of stimulating “academic and personal dedication to honest and
fair dealing with other members of the (Davidson) community.” Nevertheless, this time-honored tradition has recently been subjected to an overhaul
by a four-person subcommittee of the Honor Council. The revisions came in response to an increase in concern among the
students and faculty regarding the effectiveness of the Honor Code. Additionally, there was some question of whether or not the
students were aware of all the facets and intricacies of the Code. The discrepancies inherent in the original Code tended
to result in differences of interpretation, which in turn led to misunderstandings. Therefore, the proliferation of such comments and concerns
led to the Honor Council’s review and eventual revision of the Code.

Although many of the changes involved merely a clarification of wording, some of the proposed revisions have larger implications. For
example, due to the fact that every professor has a different interpretation of what plagiarism actually entails, the word plagiarism
has been removed from the Honor Code. Instead, for simplification, plagiarism has simply been incorporated into the definition of cheating.
Then there was the question of whether students were honor-bound to report violations that they had heard about only by
word of mouth. The new Code proposes that students are required to report such infractions only when they have witnessed
the violation firsthand. Perhaps the most noticeable change is the consolidation of the Honor Code pledges into a single statement:
“On my honor, I have neither given nor received unauthorized information regarding this work, I have followed and will continue
to observe all regulations regarding it, and I am unaware of any violation of the Honor Code by others.”

The revision of the Honor Code as proposed by the Honor Council subcommittee must now be approved by two votes
of the Student Conduct Council. The new Code has already received the first of the two necessary votes, and is
up for final consideration on Apr. 9. Once it passes this board, the new Honor Code will be submitted to
President Bobby Vagt for final approval. The Honor Council subcommittee hopes that the Davidson College community will be supportive of
the new Code, for it is the “cornerstone of Davidson College.”

The following are Phi Beta Kappa inductees whose names were accidentally misspelled or omitted:
Amy Catherine Whitmire
David Reed Williamson
We regret any inconvenience this may have caused.

LOOKING FOR A SUMMER JOB?

WANTED: SUMMER CONFERENCE ASSISTANT FOR RESIDENCE LIFE OFFICE.
Enhance your resume work experience
@ Free housing at Martin Court
@ Meal allowance
@ Work with in-house athletic and academic camps, out-of-house athletic conferences, reunions, etc.
@ $6.50 per hour, varied 40-hour per week schedule
@ Improve your customer relations skills
@ Commitment from approximately May 19-August 12
@ Weekend work mandatory

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT RLO — Due April 6, 1998

The World’s Leading Provider Workplace Solutions
