Find the Goddess within. * Panel discusses Goddess worship.

Happy St. Patrick’s Day

NEWS 5
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Get down, Max. A dancing fiend’s response.
OPINIONS 9

Enjoying the music. Bennett and Petty review the W & J Ensembles,
A&L 11,12

McKillop gets a Virginia bid. Coach is one of four candidates.
SPORTS 19

Phonathon depends on student involvement
By LYNIA WILSON
Staff Writer

For over 30 years, Davidson has held an annual SGA Phonathon in order to get students involved in raising money for the Annual Fund. This year’s Phonathon began on Sunday and will continue until Wednesday. During the Phonathon, students make telephone calls to alumni, asking them to donate to Davidson’s Annual Fund. The donations can be in any amount, as small or large as the alumnus can afford. There is no script to use when calling; students are encouraged to be themselves and get to know the alumni with whom they speak.

There will be enough phones for 80 students to call each night, with the phone bank located in Chambers Gallery. Each night begins at 6:00 p.m. with a brief training session and runs until about 9:15 p.m. Students are encouraged to be there for the training session; however, it is not required, and students may call for as long or short a period of time as they wish. Approximately 500 students participated in last year’s Phonathon, raising $60,000. This year, the Annual Fund coordinators hope to surpass both of these records.

In order to boost attendance and create a little good-hearted rivalry, the traditional inter-house competition will occur once again. Fraternities, eating houses, and Independents will all compete to try to earn the highest number of points. Points are determined by both Sallie McMurray.

The annual SGA Phonathon, part of the Annual Fund, started this last Sunday with the dialing efforts of members from Rusk and Phi Delta Theta. Tomorrow will mark the final evening of this telecommunications endeavor, a function that hopes to exceed last year’s earnings of $60,000. See Phonathon on page 4.

PCC Week to promote Court-campus relations
McMullan, PCC continue to finalize details for April event
By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

Sigma Phi Epsilon President and PCC Treasurer Jason McMullan has an idea: Tentatively called PCC Week (until a “more creative, more catchy name” can be found), McMullan envisions a week of interaction among the Court, the faculty, and Independents. “It shouldn’t be exclusive,” he said.

McMullan said he got the idea last summer when he saw a trophy at Sig Ep from Greek Week. His plans include all 11 houses sponsoring at least one event. The female eating houses may sponsor two events, “but we’re not sure,” said McMullan. He is currently trying to “come up with more (contests) that would attract the women’s teams.” The competitions will be alcohol-free.

Although location is each house’s individual choice, the competitions will probably be held primarily on the grassy area behind the Commons and at the houses in order to “draw more attention to the Court and the good things we’re doing,” said McMullan. The rain location will most likely be Johnston Gym.

Each house will have a team, and there will also be faculty and Independent teams. McMullan aims to have a minimum of seven people on a team and said that one team could consist of up to 40 people. Having people compete in groups, said McMullan, allows them to “cut down on the individual aspects and act more as a team.” When a house sponsors an event, it will judge the contest but not participate. Because so manyOf the events planned that depend on physical strength, there will be no co-ed teams. “This is the most touchy area,” said McMullan. He also plans to have scoring be gender-specific, as well. In total, McMullan would like to have a team from every house on Patterson Court, one or two faculty teams, and three or four teams of Independents, who can “organize any way they want to.” McMullan may also form “ad hoc teams” for those who want to participate but do not have a team. People interested in participating should sign up by filling out forms that McMullan will place at different points on campus, including by his door (Akers 205) and in the Residence Life Office, the Union, the Commons, and the Chambers mailroom. They should be available by Thursday. Teams will be accepted on a first-come, first-serve basis, but “if I get lots of interest,” said McMullan, “I don’t want to turn people away.”

Each team will choose seven or eight (of 11) events to participate in, allowing teams to compete according to their strengths and also cutting down on the number of people and the amount of time each competition will take. The events will be assigned by lottery after each team has ranked the events in order of preference. The events will be scored on a staggered point system “similar to the ‘World’s Strongest Man’ competitions.”

PCC Week will be paid for from the PCC’s General Activities budget. Each Independent and faculty contestant will also be asked to pay one dollar to “symbolically offset the cost.” McMullan said that the fee shouldn’t “break anybody” and will act as a way of securing commitment from team members. The money will be pooled in to pay expenses, but “the bulk of everything will be paid for by the PCC.”

The events will start either Mar. 31 or Apr. 1 and will end either Apr. 4 or 5. There will be no events on Friday, Apr. 3 because of the Union’s Spring Frolics celebration. During the week, competition is expected to run from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. or 7:00 to 9:30 p.m. On Saturday, the contest should go from noon until 5:00 or 6:00 p.m. McMullan is planning for each event to last for about an hour and a half. “The timing is not coincidental,” said McMullan, who wants the Union and the Court to “bleed together and be a Davidson event.”

The Order of Omega will provide awards at the end of the week. McMullan hopes to have a trophy for the first-place team that can be passed from winning team to winning team each year. Beyond that, there will be no prizes for winning other than ribbons because “it’s all for fun,” said McMullan.

The week will feature a service project, as well, designed by PCC Service Chair Christine Larned. The project will probably take place on Saturday morning, and teams will receive points for participating. McMullan plans to have T-shirts made (and says he would like input on the design) that should be ready to order when teams sign up. He encourages everyone to be involved in PCC Week, as a spectator if not as an active participant. “It’s going to be a lot of fun,” he said. “I just hope this will get bigger and better every year.”

EDITORIALS .......... 2, 3, 5 NEWS BRIEFS .......... 7 OPINIONS .......... 8 ARTS & LIVING .......... 11 SPORTS .......... 20

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036