Ah, college. College is truly a place for lasting friendships, asserting independence, and cementing one’s character. First and foremost, however, college is a place for learning. Of course, the knowledge we acquire from those overpriced textbooks is the primary reason for our attendance at this fine institution. The approximate $30,000 dollars we and our loving families annually invest in our futures is money well-spent — but allow me to let you in on a little secret. Today, dear readers, I will tell you how increased consumer awareness, appraisal ability, honed communication skills, and even a heightened cultural perception can be yours for about $250 and some tin foil. That’s right. For the price of a television set, you too can spend the noon hour with Bob Barker and the showcase showdown. Let’s face it, our courses are valuable, but what beats “The Price Is Right” for educational value?

First of all, watching “The Price Is Right” makes shopping much more efficient. Who needs to look at price tags when you already know the cost of every dining room set and Winnebago on the market? As a savvy consumer, you will never lie awake at night wondering, is the last number in the price of that recliner I want five or eight? (Note: my roommate tells me the answer is almost always five.) And what if that right answer just does not come to mind? This dilemma illustrates one of the many ways in which art imitates life. A floundering contestant must, from a sea of shouting fans awaiting their chance to “come on DOWN,” discern the few voices leading them down the winning path. Is this not a signal to the faithful viewer to patiently wait for his own life’s path to be revealed?

Another symbol that cannot be ignored: the big wheel. It truly is a wheel of life, and each time Bob urges a weak or geriatric contestant to “give it another spin,” he is reminding each and every one of us that, although sometimes the price just isn’t right, tomorrow is another day. The man is truly an inspiration. The beauty of Bob Barker is that he is a source of inspiration for old and young, rich and poor, male and female alike. (Potential contestants take heed, however: being blond, young, female, and the wearer of a tight orange shirt declaring “I GREW UP WITH THE PRICE IS RIGHT” will work in your favor.) Those who seek cultural diversity needn’t look further than contestant row. Whether or not one appears onstage hinges solely on the contestant’s pricing ability, not social status. If only real-life situations could be approached so objectively.

Could it possibly get any better? Friends, I am here to tell you that everyone is a winner on “The Price Is Right.” As the announcer will tell you, “contestants not appearing onstage will receive” a magical array of goodies, ranging from Bounty — the quicker thicker picker-upper — to a year’s supply of Centrum Silver. Even if you are an unlucky PLINKO player (which is undoubtedly the heart of “The Price Is Right”), they will not let you go home empty-handed. Generosity, kindness, and valuable life skills, all from one game show — and yet the merits of “The Price Is Right” remain a heated controversy.

During a recent episode’s commercial break, my fellow viewers and I discussed the show as we tried to avoid the lure of advertising for Depends and Preparation-H. One fan, Jessie Brown, stated, “Those things, the campers, they rule.” Her enthusiasm was met with cynicism by one who doubted the contestants’ abilities: “They always choose the wrong showcase,” our resident pessimist bemoaned. “They always pick some gay trip over the camper.” Saddest of all are those watchers who, even with all the evidence before them, remain non-believers. “I’ve learned nothing,” dubious freshman Rachel Wippold haughtily proclaimed. I guess you just can’t please all of the people all of the time. In a world where people remain doubtful of a perfect game show, it is no wonder that injustice still exists. That’s why we must all do our own part to keep that wheel spinning.

So in order to do my part, I must quote my personal hero, that beloved teacher, trusted philosopher, and downright good guy: “This is Bob Barker reminding you to help control the pet population. Have your pet spayed or neutered.” Thanks.

Successful dorm living requires diversity, not segregation

In last week’s Davidsonian, the “turning-back-the-clock” article addressed Davidson’s decision to desegregate and allow blacks to enroll. Now, almost 30 years after Davidson admitted its first black students, it has decided to initiate a segregated living policy based on race and creed. In one of the most short-sighted and counter-productive administrative decisions in my tenure at this college, Davidson has decided to re-segregate our residence halls. Next year, albeit at the request of some students, Davidson will offer halls that will be available only to people of certain races and creeds. RLO has, of course, covered itself on this issue to a certain extent by making the wise political decision not to call them “black-only” or “Christian-only” halls. Instead, the halls have been given the rather innocuous names “African American Studies” and “Christian Studies.” But let’s be realistic: Neither of these “studies” even exists at Davidson as an official academic focus. These fancy names are the same as “separate but equal” and “literacy requirements on voting.” They are simply euphemisms used to justify segregation and discrimination. These halls aren’t even “separate but equal.” They have been placed in the basements of Sentelle andCannon, two of the most spacious and most centrally located dorms on campus (one of the halls even has a kitchen). And any students who want to segregate themselves don’t have to go through the lottery. I’m sure that a number of people will write about the counter-productive and dangerous policy of segregating by race. People (of all races) complain regularly about the lack of racial unification and solidarity here at Davidson. Racially segregated halls will only further divide the campus and may even raise racial tensions and animosity to the public level. But my guess is that this issue will be expounded upon in great detail over the next few weeks, so I will move on to the other hall, which I believe will receive considerably less attention.

For people who may not have read my articles in the past (this is the first I have written this year), I have never shied away from taking a stand for my faith. I have written many articles defending Christianity in the past. I have been the president of one of Davidson’s most visible Christian organizations for two years and am going to seminary next year. So please don’t write me off as an anti-religious zealot. The Christian hall is a slightly different issue from the black hall. Unlike the discussion on race relations at Davidson, one does not hear talk about Christians not being accepted or people being categorized and stereotyped by their faith at Davidson, at least not yet. Of the two halls, however, I think I am more disappointed in the idea of the Christian one than of the black one because I feel very close ties to the Christian body on this campus. So I would like to address a few remarks to Christians at Davidson:

If you are thinking about joining a Christian hall, take a look at the end of Matthew’s gospel. The very last thing Jesus says to his followers is “go therefore and make disciples of all nations,... teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you.” As Christians, we are not called to separate ourselves from the world but to live in it. Granted, it is a wonderful thing to have Christian friends and to interact and associate with Christians on a regular basis. Having a support group of Christian friends is a helpful and important way of surviving the trials of college. But you cannot stop there. If you do not interact with and befriend non-Christians, and those struggling with their faith, you have passed up the best way of fulfilling Christ’s Great Commission (not to mention one of the best ways for you to grow in your own faith). Christians are all called upon to spread the joy and love that come from our relationship with God. And we are all responsible for how others view Christians. I can tell you what a Christian hall at Davidson will do. It will reinforce the stereotype that Christians see themselves as better than others. It will lead to resentment, and it will separate you from those who don’t think exactly like you (Christian and non-Christian alike). We cannot create our own comfortable corners into which we crawl so that we don’t have to deal with reality. The reality is that as a Christian, you will be tested, and you will be held accountable for how you lived your life. The message that Jesus brought us is much too important to keep bottled up on our own hall. If you want support, cluster or room with other Christians. But don’t cut yourself off from Davidson. In the long run, that will do nothing but hurt you and this college.

Top 10 reasons Davidson College is one of the most highly accredited colleges in the country:

10. If you get 10 friends together to sign a petition, you, too, can head up your own impotent committee.
9. Jim Crow Laws go into effect each night at Vail Commons.
8. Tenure requirements now include a minimum of 30 hours per semester of ignoring students’ needs, as well as a maximum class average of 72.3 percent over the course of four semesters of teaching.
7. Davidson College is an “equal opportunity employer” — it’s just that our president must be a member of the Presbyterian Church... hmmm, I smell a paradox.
6. Each classroom in Chambers is equipped with “an independent thought extinguisher” in case of an “emergency.”
5. The admissions office has substituted a “well-rounded person” requirement for a “well-rounded” SAT score requirement... like 1600.
4. Little Library is jammed with useful periodicals such as “The Presbyterian Quarterly” and “The Catholic Almanac.” Why not, there is a large contingent of 19th Century Comparative Religion Majors who need these for their theses.
3. “Cultural-diversity” means ordering Hawaiian pizza and watching reruns of “The Cosby Show.”
2. They've added a “family income” category to the freshman face book so the frats and eating houses can cut to the chase during rush.
1. A professor's office hour is, in its most literal sense, one hour per week.

—Phil Julian

TBEING AT Sctinob is Gcedr! T CANDO WHATEVER I WaAtuT, , , HIVIT GTA ° REE Tame BM JEFF KESSLER YEAH THAD My NietLes PIERCED AND IT Cownes D ThE RINGS WITH A CHAIN! Yeas Oo dusr cut OPF Both MY Pinky's! / guisher” in case of an “emergency.” Cosby Show.” 7. Davidson College is an “equal opportunity employer” — it’s just that our president must be a member of the Presbyterian Church... hmmm, | smell a paradox. 6. Each classroom in Chambers is equipped with “an independent thought extin- 5. The admissions office has substituted a “well-rounded person” requirement for a “well-rounded” SAT score requirement... like 1600. 4. Little Library is jammed with useful periodicals such as “The Presbyterian Quarterly” and “The Catholic Almanac.” Why not, there is a large contingent of 19th Century Comparative Religion Majors who need these for their theses. . 3. “Cultural-diversity” means ordering Hawaiian pizza and watching reruns of “The 2. They've added a “family income” category.to the freshman face book so the frats and eating houses can cut to the chase during rush. 1. A professor's office hour is, in its most literal sense, one hour per week, —PuiL JULIAN What st MEANS! “TA cTO OF A SaPANeSE { SYMBce ON MY BATT, \ ; gar nT Nod AND L DanT ee r~ Ves oe LY’ 4 T NEVER REALLY UseD THEM AND IT KveT WOKE Weir... PLUS TT Was FREE. AND My PARENTS Wie PRoeAary BE Pissen! s held by the Trustees of Davidson College.