DAVIDSON — "The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly" — Established 1914

Town plans for sewer expansion. NEWS 4
Making your toilet bigger.

The Davidsonian sucks: Britton places blame for problems. OPINIONS 6

Davidson grad book reading. A&L 8
Reynolds raps on campus.

Swimmers kick Southern States Wildcats win in the water. SPORTS 12

Sallie McMurray @ The BAT Mobile (Breath Alcohol Testing Mobile Unit) made an appearance last Friday on Chambers Lawn as
one of the main events surrounding Alcohol Awareness Week.

COLLEGE RELATIONS Press Release

Larry J. Dagenhart of Charlotte has been elected chairman of the Davidson College Board of Trustees. Dagenhart, a 1953 graduate
of Davidson, is a Senior Partner with Smith Helms Mullis & Moore, where he has practiced law (with its predecessors)
since 1958. He has served as a trustee of the College since 1972.

Dagenhart, who was elected chairman at the October 1997 trustee meeting, officially began his new duties on Jan. 1, 1998,
and conducted his first meeting as Chairman when the trustees met on the Davidson campus on Friday, Feb. 13. Other
new officers elected at the October 1997 meeting are Vice Chair, Ben Barker; Dean Emeritus, School of Dentistry, UNC Chapel
Hill; and Secretary, Dan S. LaFar, Jr., President of LaFar Industries, Gastonia, N.C.

Dagenhart is a native of Taylorsville, N.C., who attended New Hanover High School in Wilmington, N.C., and then came to
Davidson as a Baker Scholar. He graduated in 1953 as class valedictorian, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron
Delta Kappa. He also served as vice president of Student Government and a Battalion CO, ROTC, among other honors. He
went from Davidson to New York University Law School on a prestigious Root Tilden Scholarship, served two years in the
U.S. Army, then finished law school in 1958.

Since coming to Charlotte, Dagenhart has been active in civic, charitable, and corporate service. He has served as past chair
or president of Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, United Way, Arts & Science Council, Foundation for the Carolinas, Charlotte Country Day
School Trustees, and Charlotte City Club. He is currently a director of Cannon Medical Research Center, Ben Craig Incubator Center
(Chair), Charlotte World Affairs Council (Chair), J.A. Jones, Southern Webbing, Inc., and N.C. Citizens for Business and Industry. He is
also a Trustee of UNC Wilmington and a member of the Candidacy Committee, North Carolina Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran
Church in America.

He has served his alma mater for decades in a number of outstanding leadership capacities, including a year as secretary
of the Board of Trustees and most recently as chairman of the Presidential Search Committee that selected Robert F. Vagt
as the 16th president of Davidson College.

Dagenhart is married to the former Sarah Petty of Selma, Ala., a graduate of Agnes Scott College. They have three
children and three grandchildren. Two of their children also graduated from Davidson — Katheryne Dagenhart Satterwhite ‘84 and Larry Dagenhart,
Jr. ‘91.

Bringing the railroad back to the Davidson community

“Ride the Rail” campaign may reinstate the Norfolk Southern rail corridor

By LYDIA WILSON Staff Writer

On Friday, Feb. 6, Davidson’s former train depot was once again awakened by a buzz of passenger activity. The depot,
along with three others on the Norfolk Southern rail corridor, was visited by an Amtrak Flexliner passenger train as part
of a promotion for North Mecklenburg’s “Ride the Rail” campaign.

The campaign, which is sponsored statewide by the North Carolina Department of Transportation and Amtrak, aims to reinstate the use
of passenger trains on many of North Carolina’s more infrequently used rail lines. The Norfolk-Southern/Highway 115 rail corridor is a
prime target for this program.

In order to excite citizens about the prospect of commuter rail service to Charlotte, the towns of Davidson, Huntersville, Cornelius,
and Mooresville all worked in conjunction with the North Carolina Department of Transportation and Amtrak to bring the train through
on a demonstration run. Each town held festivities at the site where thetrain made its stop. For Davidson, that site
was the old depot. The area was encompassed by red, white, and blue balloons, and portions of Depot and Jackson
streets were blocked off so citizens could safely await the train’s arrival. The event was attended by approximately 300 people,
roughly 90 of whom were able to board the train and “Ride the Rail” on an Amtrak Flexliner, much like
the ones that might service the Davidson area in the future. There is no official timetable as to exactly when
the train service could begin. Over the next six to eight months, local town officials will continue to hammer out
all the details to find out when the service might actually start. According to Tim Keane, Davidson Town Planner, the
whole process of actually bringing the trains in could take anywhere from three to five years. One of the major
advantages to bringing in this type of transit, according to “Welcome to the Future,” an informational pamphlet put out by
the local sponsors of the campaign, is that no new infrastructure would need to be built to accommodate the trains.
The rail vehicle is capable of traveling up to 120 miles per hour, though the age and condition of the
Norfolk-Southern line would probably permit the trains to travel no more than 60 miles per hour. Due to these high
speeds, structural improvements on the existing rail lines would be necessary. The speed at which the Flexliner would travel would
allow commuters to travel faster than they legally could along Highway 115. And, since a two-car rail vehicle with one
driver can carry as many passengers as six buses or 180 single-occupant cars, the service would also cut down on
pollution and overcrowded roads. The rail service would begin by servicing a primarily commuter market - with a larger number
of departures and returns in the morning and evening. The number of runs made would increase as ridership increased. This
type of rail service could have many long-reaching effects, according to “Welcome to the Future.” One of the most obvious
effects would be a heightened accessibility to new towns for commuters from other areas. This influx of commuters would channel
growth along the rail corridor, bringing more activity and change to relatively small and stable towns such as Davidson. Keane
said the service “would bring changes, but more positive changes without building new roads or intersections.” Over time, residents should
expect to see more business and commuter-related services springing up along the corridor, but what they won’t see is the
bumper-to-bumper traffic that comes with other transit improvements such as highway expansions. College Physical Plant Director Robert Collins believes the
program would bring a great deal of advantages to residents and students alike. As well as providing transportation to Charlotte,
train service could provide students with a vital link to other transportation services such as bus stations or the airport.
Though none have been planned out yet, Collins envisions a student-friendly fee schedule. The rates would be as reasonable as
possible and something like a frequent-rider card could allow students to ride the rail without having to carry cash for
the fare. “The service would blend very well with life here in Davidson,” said Collins. Plans are still in the
works for most of the details surrounding the possible arrival of Regional Rail service in Davidson. The most pressing goal
for local officials at the moment is to stir up community support for “Ride the Rail.” Anyone interested in showing
their support can drop by Town Hall during office hours to sign a petition.

EDITORIALS .......... 2
LETTERS ............ 3
NEWS ............... 6
ARTS & LIVING ...... 8
SPORTS ............ 12

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
