THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998

The Great American... Smokeout?

By Edward L. Dickens
Student Health Advisor

Puff. Puff. Give.

C’mon, all of you smokers out there know the rotation already. You’ve gotten your hits; now it’s time to pass the butt. This Thursday in Chambers’ Gallery and the Union Lobby, Student Health, in conjunction with the American Cancer Society, will be accepting all smoking paraphernalia in exchange for bagels and other cool merchandise.

Why are we being so giving and helpful, you ask? Well, there are a number of reasons:

1) Because we like you and we care (well, your friends do, I think)
2) Smoking is nasty
3) It’s the GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT, baby!

That’s right. Thursday is the one day out of the year where smokers are encouraged to give up the habit for at least one day and prove that you control the habit and not vice versa. Plus, you can get free bagels!

Okay, okay. Besides the bagels and other cool stuff we have to offer, I’m also gonna offer a few special prizes to those who want to try and totally get off the horse. Here’s the deal.

After 24 hours, I’ll decrease your chance of heart attack. Sounds good, right? Hold on, I’ve got more.

After 48 hours, I’ll start regrowing a few of those stunted nerve endings and your ability to taste and smell will increase. You have to like that.

In about 3 months, I’ll increase your lung capacity up to 30%, and life will get a little happier.

Here’s the fun part. After 9 months, I’ll go in there, clear up some of that sinus congestion, and clean out those tar pit lungs of yours, and maybe even regrow some cilia (you know, that stuff that cleans out your lungs). Then you can say goodbye to the fatigue and shortness of breath as your energy level rises. Fresh breath, lots of energy—at this point, people are really starting to dig you. Through the next fifteen years or so I can cut down the risk of various cancers and other deadly stuff. Pretty cool, right? And hey, the American Cancer Society gave me permission to do all of that stuff, so you know I’m telling the truth.

So come on, take your last couple puffs and give it up. Join us this Thursday the 19th for the Great American Smokeout, and have a bagel on us.

Glassic Corner

An opportunity for you to build your own living community around an academic theme.

Would you like to learn more?

Information Session

Thursday, November 19
5:00pm
Morrison Room

Application materials due December 11, 1998 to the Residence Life Office