Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

This is another in a series of articles focusing on the people and programming of the College Union, its traditional
prominence on this campus, and its mission to foster greater unity among students, faculty, and staff.

AT THE UNION
By Michael J. Kruse

Most student-run organizations suffer from a detrimental inevitability: Whether in one-year cycles or four-year cycles, students come and students go,
leaving most all clubs and groups in a state of practically constant flux. Not so at the Union. Thanks to
a staff of full-time, well-trained, professional administrators who serve as advisors to students on the Union Board, the Union functions
with a common and continual purpose rarely seen in most organizations on a college campus.

“We have an ideal situation,” said Matthew Hobbie, who presided over the Union Board before Cintra Pollack took over in
February. “There’s a continuity that they provide that is essential. It is their job. They have contacts.”

Sherry Malushizky agrees. “It lends to continuity,” said the Assistant Director for Programs, who worked six years at UNC Charlotte
before coming to Davidson five years ago. “That’s what helps from year to year, that you’re not reinventing the wheel.”

Malushizky and Program Advisor Angela Crisp-Sears are the Board’s primary advisors. “Their job is to help students be successful,” said
Director of the Union William Brown. “I take that role very seriously,” said Crisp-Sears, who was president of the Union
as a student at Chapel Hill. “It’s my job to ensure that the chairs are thinking about everything, that this
event is something the entire community wants to do. It’s often the logistical things, contractual things. That’s the easy part.
The more important part of my job is making sure the process is there, making sure that the chair and
the committee has thought through the event.

“I ask the chair questions so the chair knows what he or she is doing.”

Still, it is the students who devise and produce the Union programming while the advisors take an important back seat.
As Brown pointed out, “There are lots of times that leaders can do more harm than good. They just need
to stay back sometimes.”

“Students plan the program, produce the program, and make the decisions. It’s just as though students have a professional staff
of advisors. To some extent, it’s a little bit like writing a good paper and calling on a faculty member
before you turn it in. You may consult somebody before your research. But the advisors are very much in the
background. Students make the decisions. Advisors are much more enablers than anything else.

“This is one of the best opportunities you’ll ever have in your life. The campus elected you and expects you
to do something important. You are allocated resources, volunteers, so many great folks around you, and a professional staff that
is here to help you succeed,” said Hobbie. “We were blessed in the past year with incredible individuals who have
done incredible things, taken programs to new heights.”

And listen up, leaders and members of other student organizations with offices in the Union. The professionals help students accomplish
uniting goals.

“I like to empower students to make decisions,” Malushizky added. “I’m here to help facilitate — pushing students to have
vision and to help them think what they’re passionate about — not to tell them what they should be doing.
The students that run the Board are really the ones who make it happen. I couldn’t make it happen without
them.”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.best part of the Board’s set-up? “Other organizations can come
to us, too,” Crisp-Sears explained. “William has really made an effort to get that word out. We're here as resources
for other organizations as well.”

Patterson Court Games coming together
By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

The fine points of Jason McMullan’s big idea are slowly but surely becoming final. The Patterson Court Games (formerly known
as PCC Week) will be held from Monday, Mar. 30 to Sunday, Apr. 5. Events will be suspended Friday, Apr.
3 due to the Union Board’s Spring Frolics and the production of the musical “Hair.”

The Games will run from 4-6 p.m. and 7-9 p.m. Monday through Thursday, from 1-3 p.m. and 4-6 p.m. on
Saturday, and from 1-3 p.m. on Sunday, with an awards ceremony to follow. There will also be a service project
on Saturday morning dealing with campus and town relations.

McMullan said that he is still looking for faculty and independent teams. Sign-up forms are available in the Residence Life
Office, the library, and the Union. The deadline to sign up is tomorrow at noon; if there are problems, contact
McMullan as soon as possible.

The events of the week are as follows: the Black Student Coalition will sponsor a bat-spin relay; Connor will sponsor
a tug-of-war; Kappa Alpha will sponsor a horseshoe throw; Kappa Sigma will sponsor a free-throw and three-point basketball shooting contest;
Phi Delta Theta will sponsor a ping pong tournament; Phi Gamma Delta will sponsor an egg toss; Pi Kappa Alpha
will sponsor a fussball tournament; Rusk will sponsor relay races; Sigma Alpha Epsilon will sponsor a cake- or pie-eating contest;
Sigma Phi Epsilon will sponsor a bus-pull; and Warner Hall will sponsor a lip-synching contest. The dates and times for
these events will be decided today.

McMullan encourages those who do not participate in the Games to be spectators.

Take Back from page 1

President of the Rape Awareness Committee, spoke on education “to give everyone a chance to breathe.” She began by defining
rape as “any unwanted sexual contact.” “It’s about power and control,” she continued. An earlier speaker stated this, as well,
saying, “Rape is sexual violence. (It) is about social values. It is not a women’s issue.”

Three-fourths of rape victims are women, according to Kanter, and a rape occurs every five minutes. Kanter reminded the audience
that the Rape Awareness Committee now has a pager, and a First Responder is on duty 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. The First Responders will allow victims to talk and will take them to the hospital if
they want to go, but there is no pressure, and all First Responders are non-judgmental and completely confidential. The pager
number is 356-3126.

Kanter also suggested methods to help prevent becoming a victim of rape, including taking a self-defense course, not feeling inferior,
having a plan, helping friends, communicating limits, and challenging sexist attitudes.

Five more speakers followed Kanter’s talk. The 900 Room then slowly emptied in silence broken only by the occasional sob.
On the way out, audience members and speakers picked up strands of red ribbon and wallet-sized cards bearing the First
Responders’ pager number. Take Back the Night ended with members of the audience and the speakers tying the red ribbons
on a ficus tree set up outside the front steps of Union, one for each person they know who has
been sexually assaulted.

Dr. MAXINE SINGER
Henry Lewis Smith Lecturer

Tonight at 7:30 p.m., Dr. Singer will speak in Chambers Gallery. A biologist and Director of the Carnegie Institute, Singer
will give a lecture entitled “Dealing with Genes.” A reception will follow.
