. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Plans for Service Odyssey continue to push forward

By Matt CLIFFORD
Staff Writer

Seniors in high school visiting this weekend for Decision Davidson may be among the first to take advantage of an addition to the Davidson Outdoors Odyssey program. Plans to add a service-oriented Odyssey offered to incoming freshmen for the summer of 1999 are underway. Sophomore Jesse Montgomery is heading the final push to get the program added to the Summer 1999 slate.

The idea sprung last semester from Alternative Breaks, an organization under the Service Council that has been on campus for numerous years. Alternative Breaks has for many years been an obscure group which struggled to incorporate a consistent percentage of the student body in its activities. Senior Jessica Goodson and Davidson graduate Jessica Roy helped to make Alternative Breaks into a more campus-friendly organization. Last year the organization offered several programs, including trips to Washington, D.C., Haiti, Harlem, and the Urban Plunge (a unique grassroots trip that strips students of amenities and inhibitions in an urban setting). Alternative Breaks has since emerged as a formidable special interests service group. While Goodson is abroad in Vietnam this semester, Montgomery will serve as interim director.

The community service office developed the idea for the Service Odyssey last April as a way to get freshmen more involved in the service aspect of Davidson, as well as letting them know about Alternative Breaks. Montgomery wants to get freshmen thinking about action on service before they even arrive on campus. In his eyes, “Many Davidson students talk about service and its importance, but not enough demonstrate commitment with their actions.”

Montgomery and Goodson presented their idea to Bill Abrams, the administration’s service coordinator, and also to the Service Council. Both were very interested in the idea for a Service Odyssey, but the Union Board stressed that more research was needed and that the program would be considered for the summer of 1999 as opposed to this past summer. Although the administration discouraged starting the Service Odyssey last summer, they did give Goodson and Montgomery a stipend to fund summer research and planning for next summer’s Odyssey.

Both Goodson and Montgomery performed preliminary research here on campus this summer to determine what types of organizations can administer a short-term program like the week-long Service Odyssey. They found several housing development organizations that provide emergency and long-term housing repair to residents in rural or otherwise neglected areas in the Appalachian Mountains. These organizations rely on volunteers to provide residents with the home repair that alone they cannot complete. The organizations found were concentrated on the border of Virginia and West Virginia, in a picturesque though dilapidated area known as Appalachia.

Montgomery and Goodson left Davidson at the end of July to tour six locations they deemed potential Service Odyssey sites. Visiting towns like Pearisburg and Fries, Virginia, along Interstate 81, as well as sites in West Virginia, Montgomery and Goodson met with the leaders of those organizations that would provide the homes and contacts for Service Odyssey repair. Along the way, they met the people that make Appalachia one of the most unique and friendly places, those “amazing people” that would make the Service Odyssey an opportunity to “promote community” both within the small cluster of incoming freshmen and between the volunteers and the people for whom they work.

Montgomery recounted many an anecdote about his trip into southwest Virginia that evidenced the personal relationship that freshmen will build with the families and people they meet. He could not stop issuing compliments to the “friendliness” of the entire area. During a trip to Narrows, Virginia, Goodson and Montgomery stayed with the mayor of the town and his wife and talked for hours over food and a Virginia sundown about the mayor’s eighteen years of service to the community and “his life story.”

The other sites selected in addition to Narrows include Buchanan County on the border of West Virginia and a site in West Virginia in Alderson that will not be used for the Service Odyssey, but possibly for Alternative Breaks. In Buchanan County, Montgomery and Goodson met with Buchanan Neighbors United, an organization run by community leaders which helps residents help themselves. Montgomery described Buchanan County as “a place that defines the typical Appalachia,” but one where the people have been “taken advantage of for many years.” The coal mining industry dominates Buchanan, but that sustaining life force of the community is dying fast as unemployment mounts and frustrations abound. The local youth find themselves bound to the area yet are filled with the desire to leave to find better opportunities elsewhere. In Buchanan, the Service Odyssey group would work with Buchanan Neighbors United in performing emergency home repair including weatherization, plumbing, and roof work.

The Narrows, Virginia, site on the New River in Giles County has seen its downtown area decline since the introduction of a United States Highway in the 1940s. The Service Odyssey, working with the group Progress In Narrows Now, would help revive the area and work on homes nearby. The group would be doing emergency home repair as well as community recreation work on a Community Center and a nearby creek.

The Alderson, West Virginia, site that Montgomery and Goodson visited is a house for relatives of women serving terms in a federal penitentiary in Alderson. Montgomery described the house and the area as a “spiritual place...but not right for Service Odyssey.” The Alderson site is certainly being considered for Alternative Break trips.

Montgomery and Goodson wanted to model their Odyssey after the immensely successful wilderness Odyssey program run by Davidson Outdoors. Accordingly, Montgomery went through the training required to lead a DO Odyssey and led one session. Since the Service Odyssey will be supervised by DO, but the leaders trained on Alternative Break standards, Montgomery needed to acclimate himself with the basics of leading freshmen on such an endeavor so that he and the Alternative Break staff could better plan the Service Odyssey. The logistics of the program mirror those of the current Davidson Outdoors trips, a Saturday to Saturday commitment with one Service Odyssey group per summer session. At most, the Service Odyssey will require eight separately trained student leaders.Two per session. These leaders will be selected via Alternative Breaks training and the first meeting, where these issues and others concerning Alternative Breaks will be discussed on Thursday, September 10 at 7:00 pm. The goal of the Service Odyssey is to “increase social awareness, foster personal growth, and challenge individuals to work constructively and collectively within a group,” according to its mission statement. Kendra Berner, a freshman who attended the Davidson Outdoors Odyssey this summer, echoed Montgomery’s hopes that the Service Odyssey would be “well received” by incoming students because “most people know coming in that Davidson is service-oriented, and that’s part of the reason why they want to come.”

There will still be a formidable advertising problem for the Service Odyssey, as many students may not opt for the rigorous service trip when presented with the more diversified Davidson Outdoors program. John Hill-Alto, a freshman Bonner Scholar, reassures that those who are “serious about service and put their hearts into it” will realize that although the other trips may seem to offer more fun, on the Service Odyssey, “fun becomes secondary.” He also hopes that the advertisement of the program alongside the Davidson Outdoors program will encourage other students to take the initiative for such a “worthwhile” opportunity. So potential Davidsonians take note: Jesse Montgomery and the rest of the Alternative Breaks staff would like you to know that service is indeed an integral part of Davidson’s campus. Service Odyssey will show just how serious a part it is.

Vamonos Van gears up for another year
By Amanda L. Mordavsky
Staff Writer

Sometimes, Davidson’s campus starts to get old. Sometimes, Harris Teeter is a necessity. For those who don’t have a car, or need the assistance of another driver, the Vamonos Van provides a great opportunity. The Vamonos Van, run by volunteers, members of Patterson Court, and work-study students, provides a means of transportation for Davidson students who want to venture off campus during those busy weekend evenings. The van runs Thursday through Saturday, from 7 pm to 1 am, between Mooresville and Huntersville.

Fall semester has brought a few changes to the services offered by the Vamonos Van, one of which is a free ride. The committee has waived the former $1 charge, thanks to the generosity of the Dean of Students office, which provides the Vamonos Van with financial aid. The committee also has two new co-chairs, junior Travis Barton and sophomore Lindsey Vagt. Barton finishes the second half of her term this fall while Vagt just begins her first term. Both students offer strong leadership and commitment to the Vamonos Van. Thanks to the effort of graduated senior Buster Burk, Vagt began driving the van in the spring of her freshman year. Similarly, Barton began driving in the spring of her sophomore year.

Both Barton and Vagt are extremely excited about this year’s Vamonos Van run. Barton said, “I don’t want to jinx myself, because the van has only run for one weekend, but I think it will be even more successful than last year. People seem excited and interested and should benefit from our service while also having fun.” Vagt has similar high hopes for the van. “We’re hoping to increase the number of people who ride the van, making this year’s run better than last year,” she said.

Although the van has only been in use for one weekend thus far, there has been great support from the student body. Those who rode the Vamonos Van last year remember their experiences fondly. One anonymous junior commented, “It’s an all-night party van. You got to ride it until the end.” Junior Julie Summersgill added, “It’s free: What more can you ask for?”

Freshmen had mixed reactions after their first experiences with the van this past weekend. After her first ride on the van, freshman Kay McCloy said, “It was one of the best and strangest times I’ve had at Davidson. I just hung out with lots of people and hoped none of them would throw up on me.” Freshman Grant Bleecher, another first-time rider, said, “It was great to have a ride back to campus. I just wish there was more room on the van.” Although the van can become quite crowded, it remains one of the most effective ways to transport students from off-campus activities. Freshman Trevor Stanley reflected, “The Vamonos Van is yet another unique aspect of Davidson College that separates it from other liberal arts colleges. It is an effective way of safely transporting students home after an evening off campus.”

Such positive feedback from the freshman class is encouragement for the staff of the Vamonos Van to continue their work. Other students who have not yet had the opportunity to board the Vamonos Van have great hopes for their first trip. Freshman Bobby Pittenger said, “I have not yet ridden the Vamonos Van, but I am looking forward to joining its non-stop party.”

Although the Vamonos Van provides students with a fun atmosphere on the way home from an off-campus party or activity, co-chair Travis Barton would like to remind students of the true purpose of the van. The van serves as a means “to keep the community safe by keeping people who have been drinking off the streets.” Students are especially encouraged to use this service if they have driven to a party and are unable to safely return home, or have ridden to a party with someone who cannot safely return home. Vamonos Van magnets with the service’s number can be found around campus, and are especially useful in these situations.

Many people help keep the Vamonos Van running for the student body. Barton would like to thank all of these people, including the Davidson Physical Plant team, the Dean of Students, members of Patterson Court, and the student body for all their support. If you need the use of the Vamonos Van, please do not hesitate to call 564-7135 for a ride. Please be able to tell where you are and where you need to go. Remember it’s free!

Wanna write for News? Come to a meeting. Liz will love you. Sundays at 9 p.m. in the Davidsonian office. You know you want to.