THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

Ferrell breaks school record; men continue fabulous season
By KerrH Gorpon
Staff Writer

At first glance, the Davidson men’s cross-country team finish of 33rd (out of 42) at this past weekend's Paul Short
Run at Lehigh University (Bethlehem, PA) is incredibly deceiving. Granted, the men ran against some of the fiercest competition on
the east coast, including seven nationally-ranked schools. Upon further inspection, however, one will see the results of one of the
greatest team performances in the history of Davidson College cross-country.

Coach Gary Andrew reflected on Saturday with a smile: “This has to be the best overall performance in my 13
years at Davidson. It was very exciting and a great opportunity to race with teams of a great caliber.” Andrew
cited the fast course and excellent weather for his team’s showing. “The guys rose to the occasion, witnessed in all
the PR’s (personal records).”

Junior Brent Ferrell immortalized his name in the Wildcat harrier record books with his time of 25:11 over the 8K
course, breaking the previous school mark set by Coty Pinckney in 1977. Ferrell has continued his dominance since the first
meet of last season, only now with the goal of individual conference champion more clearly in sight. One of the
most committed runners on the team, Ferrell has used a great summer of training (aided by a study abroad trip
in France) coupled with incredible early season practices to establish himself as not only one of the best runners in
Davidson history, but now the fastest. Like the runners before him, Ferrell has set a benchmark of excellence for himself
and the team that will hopefully continue as the men race towards the conference meet.

An annual meet showcasing some of the best talent in NCAA Division I cross-country, this year’s Paul Short Run (being
the 25th anniversary) was no exception. Michigan and Michigan State tied for the meet title, with 90 points. Georgetown finished
third (145 points), while James Madison narrowly took fourth (183) and Princeton claimed fifth (186). The men, despite their finish,
left the meet claiming victories over Division I scholarship schools Delaware and Pittsburgh, and were barely defeated by Florida International
and Syracuse. Todd Snyder of Michigan won the individual crown in 23:44, while establishing a new meet record in the
process.

For the Wildcats, Lehigh proved a PR dumping ground for all but one of the men. Junior William Isenhour ran
a breakthrough race, following Ferrell in an explosive 25:48. Isenhour had hovered in the low 28’s for the first two
meets of the season, but rallied in spectacular fashion reminiscent of his races as a freshman. His time is now
one of the school’s top ten fastest ever on any course, joining Ferrell and senior Josh Cookson on the list.
Although the only member of the squad to not register a PR...

Women’s cross country makes history
By Kelly Kiefer
Staff Writer

Last weekend, the top half of the women’s cross-country team traveled to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, for the 25th annual Paul Short
Invitational Run. Although new in the field of 39 teams, the Wildcats made an impressive debut, finishing 24th, beating such
schools as Georgetown, Lafayette, University of Pittsburgh, and Lehigh.

Individually, the Wildcats found the cool temperatures and gently rolling grass course to be a superb setting to showcase their
talent. Sophomore Smyth Bitter led the team with a time of 18:37 for the 5K, her personal best at Davidson.
Senior Suzy Burr followed with a time of 18:45. Freshwoman Caroline Little ran an impressive 19:06 to finish third for
the squad. Sophomore Clare Frey and freshwoman Lucy Billingsley closed out the top 5 for the team at 19:23 and
19:25, respectively. Jill Neumayer and Kelly Kiefer both ran personal bests of the season, finishing sixth and seventh for the
squad. Reviewing the times, it must be noted that history was made...During this race, this is the first time the
top seven runners have all finished under 20:00. Due to race restrictions, Davidson was only able to run 7 in
the first race, leaving Jenny Klotz, Rhiannon Ollis, and Beth Brewster to compete in the open race. Each ran a
season personal best, attesting to the benefits of 6 weeks of intense training. As for overall feelings about both races,
Coach Thomas Cason states, “This was the best team effort we have had since I have been coaching here. Everyone
ran great, and we accomplished our goal by finishing in the top 25. This is without a doubt the most
talented team Davidson has ever had.” In addition, Smyth Bitter sums up the race well: “The weather was perfect for
running, which definitely contributed to everyone running so great. Overall, it was a successful trip for the entire team, and
we had tons of fun, too.”

McKinsey is an international management consulting firm that seeks bright, creative men and women to participate in its North American
Business Analyst program.

Cookson still ran a solid race and finished in 26:30, further providing his constant support as one of the top
runners on the team. Juniors Pat Burchett and Thomas McElveen once again closed out the top 5 scorers, running 26:47
and 26:49 respectively. With the weekend behind them, the top 5 look poised to lead the team to an incredible
finish as the men crossed the midpoint of the season. Ferrell commented on the weekend’s meet: “This has to be
the best level of competition we’ve ever seen. It was another great step towards our goal of finishing well in
the Southern Conference.” He added, “We now have even more confidence that we can run with the best in the
conference, because we just competed with the best in the nation.” Rounding out the top 7 for the team were
freshman Dan Gibson (26:56) and senior Keith Gordon (27:08). As both were not far off the times of Burchett and
McElveen, the core of the group can only hope to improve. Gibson and Gordon both set PRs as well as
lowering their time from the home meet by well over 1:30, further providing evidence of the team’s incredible performance Saturday.
Due to limitations in the number of entrants for the first race, two Cats also competed in the Open division
at Lehigh. Juniors Steve Hutchins (27:34) and Steve Johnston (27:55) did not sway from the trend, setting PRs in the
process and continuing their role as top 9 runners for the team. The men next travel to East Carolina University
(Greenville, NC) for the North Carolina Intercollegiate Championships held October 17. There they will again see how they stack up
with conference foes Appalachian State and Western Carolina. With the first half of the ‘98 season behind them, the men
brace themselves for the future with confidence—bolstered by the results of the first three meets and the strength of the
individuals forming the backbone of the team, Wildcat cross-country could experience an unprecedented season.

McKinsey & Company Challenge

This international firm is seeking college graduates from all disciplines to participate in the Business Analyst program. Analysts work for
2 to 3 years in one of our 20 U.S. offices as full members of our consulting teams and receive
financial assistance for graduate school after completing the program. We seek candidates with exceptional records of academic achievement, strong analytic
and quantitative skills, demonstrated leadership, and excellent communication skills who are comfortable working in teams.

CAMPUS EVENTS
Information session: Oct. 15, 7:00 p.m., The Guest House
Resume drop deadline: Oct. 16, 12:00 noon (please include cover letter, resume, SAT scores, and copy of transcript)
On-campus interviews: Oct. 30, 1998

Contact: Kellie Turley
1-800-525-9910
133 Peachtree Street, Suite 4600
Atlanta, GA 30303
http://www.mckinsey.com
(casual attire appropriate)
