- THE DAVIDSONIAN -

First Night Down: The community correlation

This Friday evening, a Davidson College tradition will once again take place—First Night Down. The Class of 2002 will descend en masse upon Patterson Court for their first introduction to the social system that they’ve heard about for the past three weeks. It will be the Patterson Court organizations’ chance to make a first impression upon their future members, and first-year students’ first opportunity to come to their own conclusions about our fraternities and eating houses. Without a doubt, it will be an exciting night for all those involved.

It’s my hope that while some suspicions and expectations about Patterson Court are confirmed by this introduction, others are dismissed. This first entrance to the world on the other side of the Commons windows will be celebrated with a night of music, dancing, laughter, meeting new people, and along with that; drinking. I often think that it’s a discredit to the fraternities and eating houses that the most hyped-up of these activities is the drinking. Don’t get me wrong. Without a doubt, drinking is a part of the Patterson Court environment, our campus culture, and many students’ college experiences nationwide. However, drinking is only one part of a much bigger picture of daily life on the Court. Eating meals together, developing leadership abilities, participating in community service, and forming lasting friendships are all activities that happen on Patterson Court on a daily basis, and I would argue just as much a part of the Patterson Court experience as the parties that take place on the weekends.

I have the opportunity to work with Patterson Court members and leaders every day, and I realize the important role that these organizations play in the lives of many students at Davidson College. I see the conversations about classes that happen over dinner, the successful and meaningful service projects that are undertaken, and the strong friendships that are formed. I consider myself lucky to have this opportunity because I get to see some amazing things that happen on Patterson Court when the bars are closed and the bands have packed up.

I could highlight the accomplishments and activities of the Patterson Court groups for this entire article, but I would be remiss if I didn’t also talk about the role that alcohol plays in our system. Alcohol is a part of many social activities on the Court; we all know that. Patterson Court houses spend a great deal of time, money, and energy dealing with issues related to alcohol use—everything from event registrations to liability insurance, and even our familiar wristbands and PCC stickers are all tied to the use of alcohol at events. But these issues are not unique to Patterson Court or Davidson College. Institutions and Greek systems across the United States are grappling with these same issues related to alcohol use.

Alcohol-related deaths of fraternity members at Louisiana State University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology last year caught the attention of students, administrators, and parents across the nation. These deaths are truly tragic because they could have been easily prevented by an action as simple as taking someone back to his or her room. By cutting him off when he’s clearly had too much. By making sure that she’s not in danger. These are all easy things to do, yet somehow in the cases of Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge Benjamin Wynne, 20, at LSU, and Scott Krueger, 18, a new FIJI member at MIT, they didn’t happen. Somehow, these young men slipped away.

Individual responsibility is certainly something to be taken into account when making choices about alcohol. Is it your responsibility if you decide to drink eight shots and get sick on your hall? Yep. Are you responsible if you head down to the Court, choose to drink ten beers and hurt yourself trying to get home? Of course you are. However, you’re not alone in that responsibility. Is an organization responsible for knowingly serving someone underage or intoxicated? State law says so. Are those around you, your hallmates, friends, teammates, and fellow students, responsible for keeping an eye out for your safety? Most definitely; just as you have a responsibility to look out for them.

We can’t forget that this is a community. In fact, Davidson College is an exceptional community; that’s the very reason that many students choose to come to Davidson. In many instances, our collective or community responsibility becomes more important than the individual choices that we make. I’ve heard too many times from students that an alcohol-related death “couldn't happen at Davidson.” As much as I'd like to believe that statement, it’s not true. Like any other college campus, Davidson is not immune to such an incident. Just because an alcohol-related death or serious injury hasn’t happened at Davidson does not mean that it can't. However, I have to believe that the strong sense of community that we share insulates us (if even a tiny bit) from that grim possibility. The bottom line is that each of us has the power to prevent alcohol-related incidents and injuries from happening to others and ourselves. But if we let a fellow student slip away, as in the cases at LSU and MIT, we'll be faced with a reality that an Honor Code, 160 years of history, and even a strong community such as ours cannot reverse. In that situation, Davidson becomes no different from the rest.

The Patterson Court houses have done an increasingly good job in recent years of taking on responsibility for making their events and their community a safer place. Our risk management system is one that is almost entirely student-run, and well run at that. As a result of the effectiveness of the system, risk management elements have been added to more events on Patterson Court this year, in hopes of increasing student safety. Last spring, the Patterson Court Council unanimously adopted a set of social event guidelines, which clearly outline the elements of a safe party. When houses do make mistakes, the student-led Judicial Board holds them accountable for their actions and issues swift and just reminders of the importance of safety and risk management. Safety and community are two beliefs that are increasingly important to the existence of Patterson Court organizations. In fact, just last week the leaders of the Patterson Court system created a mission statement, in which they affirm their commitment to a safe and responsible community on Patterson Court. I think that they’re already on their way to achieving that goal.

In this spirit, First Night Down 1998 promises to be the best ever in the number of options that are offered to students: The Union Board, Patterson Court Council, and Project Life, among others, have cooperated this year to make this coming weekend a campus-wide event called “Fall Fest.” The weekend activities will get rolling with a Project Life spaghetti dinner fundraiser in the middle of Patterson Court at 5:00 p.m. on Friday. There will be five parties happening on Patterson Court Friday night, two of which will be non-alcoholic. Saturday promises to bea big event with four live bands playing throughout the day on Patterson Court. A funk band will play from 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m., a jazz band from 4:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m., and a free community dinner will be served on the Commons patio from 6:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. A swing band will continue the music from 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m., followed by a band in one of the fraternity houses beginning at 10:00 p.m. The entire Davidson community is welcome to come out to any or all of these events. When it comes down to it, this is our community, for better or worse. Each individual has the opportunity to enjoy Patterson Court, each individual has the responsibility to make that environment a safe place, and each individual has the responsibility to care for yourself and your fellow students. Educate yourself and your friends on the facts about alcohol use and abuse, and make responsible decisions. This weekend, enjoy yourselves. Celebrate. Make friends. Dance. Take pictures. Laugh. Make memories. It’s your Court and your community, take care of it and make it even stronger. Remember that each of us contributes to the community, and each of us shares in the community responsibility. Be careful this weekend, take care of each other, and have a great time!

Pity the poor pitcher

Mark McGwire has hit his 62nd homer of the season, and I applaud him for such a magnificent feat, but the man who deserves some sort of acknowledgment is Steve Trachsel of the Chicago Cubs. This poor man has the dubious distinction of being in Major League Baseball’s record books for one sole fact. I wish it could be strikeouts, ERA, or most batters hit, but alas it isn’t, because Big Mac hit his 62nd homer off of him. He’s gotten trashed on Sports Center over... and over... and over. In his defense, I sure as hell wouldn’t want to pitch to McGwire. McGwire is easily 6’5” and weighs a solid 250 lb; he looks like a raging rabid bull when up to bat. I don’t know what the pitchers are thinking, but I know what I'd be doing; I’d grab my ankles and kiss my... elbow... good-bye.

I suppose it could be worse; Big Mac could be a real bastard if he wanted. I hate to say it, but if I were McGwire, I'd be a punk. I’d sit in the on-deck circle and heckle the opposing pitcher, “Hey! Baboon-ass! What the hell was that pitch? Is that the best you can do?” ...followed by unprintable comments about his mother and other members of his family. Of course, once I hit the homer I'd walk real slowly around the bases. None of this jogging business, the whole time singing an annoying tune, such as “Gettin’ Jiggy Wit It” or “Aloha” or “U Can't Touch This.” Then I'd find the television camera and start hollering, “YOU LIKE THAT! I GOT MORE WHERE THAT CAME FROM!” At which point I’d do the “donkey riding dance.”

Anyway, back to Trachsel, I mean how can you not feel bad for this guy! He’s going to be on every highlight reel on ESPN until it becomes Lifetime 2 (a.k.a. the men-suck channel). Seriously though, what could he have expected? McGwire had already hit 61, so it was going to happen sooner or later, and poor old Trachsel got screwed in the Cubs’ rotation. Oh well, to quote a personal hero of mine, Forrest Gump, “(Poop) Happens,” and poor old Stevie had a whole truck-load fall on him. Y’all know, we’ll watch that clip over and over again, “The pitch from Trachsel... hit deep to left field... it’s outta here!” So there’s poor Stevie Trachsel getting the poop beat outta him forever... and all I have to say is... Good job, Mark, from what I saw on ESPN, Trachsel’s a dipstick anyway.

We test products for the Davidson student because that is who we are and that is who we care about.

This Week: The New Union Cafe.

This, of course, was our initial reaction; however, upon further review, we concluded that it still sucked. Somehow our highly over-priced, product-deficient convenience store with wretched hours got worse. Everything remains over-priced, and the convenient new hours are eclipsed by the fact that there is nothing to buy. The change was due to the acquisition of the Union Cafe by the company that owns the Commons. We recommend that they concentrate more on culinary improvement than hostile takeovers and renovations of defenseless cafes that people actually like. You have made many, many people very unhappy. We would love to meet the marketing geniuses behind this one.

We took a poll among the students this week.

Q: What is your opinion of the new Union Cafe?
37%: Couldn’t get any worse
11%: What is the Union?

Let us support our argument with some complaints that we received. First, the sandwiches haven’t changed; however, the prices have increased. Second, what have you done with all the toiletries? Hypothetically speaking, I am conversing with one of the many drop-dead gorgeous girls on this campus, and I become nervous and begin to perspire. In the past, I had the option of going to the Union and buying a $12 stick of Right Guard, but I can’t do that now. This frustrates me. Third, there are no 20 oz. bottled soft drinks, only fountain drinks. How are we to play ridiculous under-the-cap games? Is there no justice? Granted, one of us has a better chance of winning the bronze in women’s gymnastics than winning any of these games, but it keeps us buying. Now, we have no reason to take senseless study breaks and must resort to writing bad articles for the paper.

We realize that this particular article may aggravate some people. If this is the case, don’t read this again. It will just make you more upset and then you will make some irrational decision like writing a rebuttal article. This is our opinion and the opinion of those that we have talked to about it (that would be us too). Granted, we could be mistaken, but what are the chances of that. We have no ideas on improvements. Our aim is simply to convey the real feelings of the students (see poll). If anyone actually likes the “improvements” made to the Union Cafe, please grab the largest blunt object near you and beat some sense into yourself.

For the record, this article is about two weeks late. We apologize. The tardiness is due to shipping errors of the weapons necessary for our necessarily violent liberation of the Cafe this Thursday night at ten. And to make matters worse, our contact man on the inside drowned while watching a women’s soccer game.

Coming in Two Weeks: The Official Malt Beverage Report and “Why Davidson Guys Don’t Measure Up,” according to Davidson girls. Also, have dry skin? If so, we'll supply you with the Wes Roach and Rich Kleiman lotion tip of the week.