THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & Living

“As You Like It” enchants audiences

Resolved: Shakespeare can be fun

By Wes Ley H. Go_psBerry
Arts & Living Editor

Last weekend, the Chambers Gallery was transformed from a cavern of linoleum into a colorful forest of painted fabric and
chiseled styrofoam. This picturesque backdrop served as the set for five performances of the Shakespearean comedy “As You Like It,”
which ran from April 17-22. The play’s run included a Sunday afternoon open-air performance at Pian del Pino, the residence
of Dr. and Mrs. T.C. Price Zimmermann.

The production was the culmination of English professor Cynthia Lewis’s Performing Shakespeare seminar, a.k.a. English 452, which is offered triennially.
The play featured a cast of fifteen English and/or theatre majors, and two small children. Like most Shakespearean comedies, “As
You Like It” has its share of zany plot twists and dramatic irony, keeping all of its characters on their
toes. The synopsis is too long for me to recount, and even after sitting through five performances of the second
half as a musician in the wings, parts of the plot still confuse me. So add “As You Like It”
to your summer reading list, and come back and finish reading this review after you're done. That’s one option.

One thing that I can say in good faith about this performance: it was very well done. Ask anyone you
know who went; they'll tell you the same thing. Even I, the cynical musician, enjoyed it, and I’m a pretty
tough sell on plays of any sort. All members of the cast gave energetic, inspired performances, be they experienced thespians
or no. There were more love montages than one could count on a single hand, which were portrayed well enough
to keep the average audience member clear on the issue of “who wanted who” throughout the whole masquerade.

Orlando (Nathan Raley) and Rosalind (Carrie Van Deest) spend the majority of the play pining away after one another, although
certain political circumstances keep them apart. Orlando spends most of the play’s second half practicing his wooing skills on who
he thinks is a young man named Ganymede, but is actually Rosalind dressed up in a Robin Hood outfit. We
(the audience) find their characters extremely likeable and are thrilled when Hymen (Donna Gribble), the god of marriage, finally hitches
them at the end. Three other couples are enjoined at the end, including two quite amusing relationships. Silvius’s (Tripp Franklin)
undying efforts to win Phebe (Jess Robblee) garnered their share of laughter. But it was the antics of the court
clown Touchstone (Billy Roberts) that stole the show. Sure, his character had the best lines and the best costume (his
“Tide” detergent shirt provided an amusing anachronism), but his portrayal of the eccentric jester was classic.

A small chamber music ensemble added an authentic flair to the production with their performance of William Brade’s “Pavane” in
the play’s last act, which served as accompaniment to a dance in which most of the cast participated. As Shakespeare
goes, English 452’s performance of “As You Like It” was pretty entertaining stuff. Impressive set design, costumes, and preparation made
it something the whole college could enjoy, and did.

“City of Angels” overdone but tasteful

Nicholas Cage and Meg Ryan star in the film

By Ep Page
Staff Writer

So here’s my problem with this movie: it’s overdone. It’s the great, tender steak you were expecting, thrown into the
oven for several hours too long. So when you think the waiter is bringing you an excellent piece of meat,
you find that the meat is so overdone that it’s hard to swallow. And then they tell you, “Sorry, the
kitchen is closed and we don’t offer refunds.”

I had been looking forward to seeing this movie for several weeks. Since I first saw the previews, I thought
it looked good and thought it was going to have a good story. I feel let down, but not crushed.
The story is good, but I have two intrinsic problems with this movie. First, the love story is...Too sappy and
too unquestioning for my simple, male mind. Secondly, I think Nicholas Cage went a little too far when trying to
be an angel. Cage takes this role and early on establishes that he believes this is a very serious role
and he must do all that he can to make it perfect. It’s almost as if he feels that no
human can really play an angel and that’s why he goes over the top trying. Meg Ryan does a good
job as the other half of this love story. She is believable as the doctor and does well with the
part. The guy from “Homicide” (André Braugher) is excellent as is Dennis Franz in their supporting roles. In fact, I
found Braugher’s understated angel much more believable than Cage’s overdone version. I will say this though — I enjoyed the
movie for its story and its treatment of angels overall. I left the theater happy with the movie as a
whole. Several scenes were especially poignant and made the movie for me. I don’t want to give much away here;
you maybe have already heard about the story, but if not, I’m not going to be the one to spoil
it now. This movie may be worth the student price at Movies at the Lake, “America’s Palace of Cinema,” but
almost anywhere else I would recommend you wait for it on video. Grade: B.

Brief note: My second favorite movie from last year, “L.A. Confidential,” as well as one of the strangest movies I
saw last year, “The Game,” are now both out on video. I would recommend that if you have yet to
see either of them, that you check them out.

Cage (left) stars in “City of Angels”

On the Scene at Davidson College

8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room. Junior Class meeting. Y'all have some issues to sort out.

7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Service coordinator meeting. Bill Abrams has some issues to sort out with
y'all.

7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Home Room. Jumpin’ Java. Nice and quiet, and smoky.

7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. at the Outpost. Senior Horn Recital. Erika Rissing being the senior in question.

8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Twenty-one Year Old Night. This one's for you. (Must be 21 and have two valid
IDs to participate. Void where prohibited.)

10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room. Volunteer Appreciation Day. Be there.

5:30 - 7:00 p.m. on Chambers Lawn. Coffeehouse. Mmmm, donuts.

8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room. Indoor Hockey. I heard some NHL scouts will be there.

2:00 - 3:30 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Piano tuned. Someone tunes the 900 Room piano.

2:00 - 3:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. Senior Voice Recital.

8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Tentative F-CREW Event. Just tentative, though.

Evening/night in the 900 Room. Jumpin’ Java. Help it live up to its name, go drink free coffee.

7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. Voice Recital.

8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Friday IVCF. Ahhhhh.

6:45 p.m. in the Morrison Room. Climbing Wall. Get your climbing in while you can.

7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery. A.C.E.S. Senior Banquet. A banquet for senior aces.

7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Kayak Rolling. Time’s running out to roll kayaks.

7:30 - 9:30 p.m. in Baker Pool. Sig Ep Jeopardy. Sans Alex Trebek.

7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Diane Krause farewell concert. Everyone should go see Diane's concert. Be there.

10:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the 900 Room. Acoustic/folk music. “Does anybody know the words to ‘Jet Plane?’”

10:15 - 11:45 p.m. at the Outpost. Second Annual Neglected Arts Night. Music, poetry, dancing… Acts that are both neglected
and artistic.

8:00 - 10:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Priorities Planning Group. Plan some priorities.

3:00 - 4:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room. Project Life meeting. Chill with Mitch.

7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room. Jumpin’ Java. Unlimited free caffeine and Triscuits. Who's not interested?

7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. at the Outpost. Senior Recital.

8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
