1998-99 WILDCAT BASKETBALL PREVIEW

@ Ben Ebong goes up for a shot in the Wildcats’ NCAA match-up with Michigan last March in Atlanta. Along
with fellow senior captains Ali Ton and Chadd Holmes, Ebong and the men’s team are the favorites to win a
fourth straight North Division title in Southern Conference action — and square off with league newcomer College of Charleston for
the Southern’s 1999 NCAA bid. Jen O’Brien, meanwhile, leads the women’s squad into action. O’Brien was selected as the conference’s
preseason player of the year, while teammates Jessica Montrella and Kerry Brown joined her as preseason all-conference performers. Coach John
Filar’s women are the media pick to make their first ever trip to March Madness.

Goal for men: A March win

By Bro Krirr
Staff Writer

Twenty-eight years and counting.

That’s how long it’s been since the men’s basketball team has repeated as Southern Conference tournament champions, as the Wildcats
of 1969 and 1970 accomplished that feat.

After last year’s trip to the NCAAs, this year’s squad is prepared and talented, and has enough to again reach
postseason play.

“Our guys are not satisfied,” said coach Bob McKillop, heading into his 10th year as the head man on the
Davidson sidelines. “They are not content with what happened last year. They achieved a lot, but they didn’t achieve everything.
And for them to make that assessment is a great statement about their maturity and leadership.”

But the road to March Madness will be tough with the addition of perennial power College of Charleston to the
conference. And North Division rival Appalachian State and reigning South Division champion Chattanooga return the bulk of last year’s rosters.

Charleston, previously a member of the Trans America Athletic Conference, returns all five starters and nine lettermen, including Sedric Webber,
last year’s TAAC player of the year.

Davidson, though, does not lack experience either. The returning players from last year’s 20-10 group accounted for 73 percent of
the points, 86 percent of the rebounds, and 91 percent of the

See Men’s Outlook inside

Women gun for 1st NCAAs

By Tripp Cherry
Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team will try to do this year what they have never done before — make the NCAA
tournament.

After setting the school record for wins in each of the past three seasons, the Wildcats will try to raise
the mark again this year. Last year’s team went 18-9 before falling to UNCG in the semifinals of the Southern
Conference tournament in the Greensboro Coliseum.

Leading the way will be junior co-captain Jen O’Brien.

O’Brien paced the conference last winter in assists (6.8), steals (3.2), and three-point percentage (45.5%), and finished second in the
conference in scoring at a 17.1 point-per-game clip.

Along with Jackie Smith of Furman, the Middletown, Conn., junior was picked as the league’s preseason player of the year
Oct. 28 at the conference’s media day in Greensboro.

Davidson will also count on the leadership and experience of this year’s senior trio.

Jamie Brown, Kerry Brown, and Jessica Montrella all have three valuable years of experience, but have been plagued by injuries
throughout. Jamie only played in 11 games last year due to a stress fracture in her hip, while twin Kerry
and Montrella managed to stay healthy enough to collect all-conference laurels.

“This year’s senior class is the class that kick-

See Women’s Outlook inside
