“oo f£.o U E 3 S i =... vAN re xy

Bruins beat Cats 3-0

BY BRIAN MAYERHOFER & BOBBY PITTENGER
Sports Editor & Staff Writer

With 1:11 left in the first half, the Davidson men’s soccer team and a silenced crowd of 3,226 finally knew what the Cats were up against. On what can only be called a world-class goal, UCLA junior Pete Vagenas put the Bruins up 2-0.

UCLA 3 Wildcats 0

Vagenas, from thirty-eight yards out, shot a rising rocket into the upper left corner of the net. It was an amazing shot which left both athletes and spectators stunned. The 5th ranked Bruins would score once more to leave Richardson Field with a 3-0 victory.

After a shaky start, in which the Cats gave up an early goal to All-American Seth George, the Cats settled down and showed they would hang around longer than expected. Davidson was led by an inspired performance by senior keeper Marshall Tyler. Tyler was constantly challenged, but always rose to the occasion making many brilliant saves along the way. At both the 34:57 and 23:21 marks, Tyler stopped George twice at point-blank range. Tyler’s great play continued throughout the first half. It appeared that UCLA senior Tom Potl was about to score when he beat Tyler with 4:15 remaining, but his shot bounced off the post. Seconds later, Shaun Tsakiris controlled the rebound and shot to Tyler’s right, only to be denied by a spectacular kick save.

While Davidson was outshot 14-4 in the first half, they played very well after struggling early. Davidson’s first real chance came with about 17 minutes left in the half. After a struggle in front of the UCLA goal, Drew Lindsey played a good ball into the box, but it was picked up before Randy Culbertson could get to it. Five minutes later, junior Andrew Holbrook had a one-on-one with UCLA keeper Nick Rimando. Holbrook played the ball around Rimando, but pushed it just left of the post. With 11:26 remaining, freshman Paul Watson almost tied the game, but his shot went just right of the post.

About midway through the first half, the momentum began to shift in favor of the Cats. The Cats had success in controlling the midfield, limiting UCLA’s attack, and creating quality scoring chances. Unfortunately, just as it appeared Davidson was about to knot the score at one, Vagenas silenced the crowd with his incredible goal. Still, Davidson almost rebounded right away as sophomore Ikenna Myers almost caught the Bruins’ defense sleeping. With under a minute left, Myers’s shot was deflected by a lunging Rimando.

After a frantic first half, both teams slowed the pace down in the second half. Physical play was up, while shots and scoring opportunities were down. Davidson had the first real scoring opportunity of the half. Sophomore Dane Erickson received the ball off a corner kick and rifled a shot over the UCLA wall, but was stopped on a diving save by Rimando. For the most part, possession in the midfield was relatively equal, if not slightly in favor of the Cats. UCLA put the game away in the 73rd minute when Martin Bruno scored on a fast break off an assist from Chester Goodson. Davidson pressed on and almost scored in the game’s closing moments. Culbertson challenged Rimando with 1:07 left. This led to a corner kick on which sophomore Andy Murray had the keeper beat, but was stopped by a diving defender.

Even though the Cats fell to 0-4, they held their own for most of the game. Against most opponents, this performance would have been good enough for at least a tie, if not a win. Still, UCLA gave Davidson a demonstration on what it takes to be among the national elite. The Wildcats' recurring problem is the failure to finish scoring opportunities. “We’ve had chances, but just haven’t been able to put the ball away,” said junior co-captain Hart Roper.

Over the weekend, Davidson went 0-2 against Yale and Brown at the Brown University tournament. Against Yale, senior forward Richard Kleiman scored the only goal of the weekend on an assist by sophomore midfielder David Buehler. Awards for the weekend included co-captain Brad Stroble as the defensive player of the tournament and David Buehler as a member of the All-Tournament team.The current record is now 0-6. Wildcats lose a heartbreaker at: x. See, ear ee See ae a Women’s Soccer Football Wake Forest Jack.U, 19 Wildcats 0 Wildcats 14 Georgia Southern 1 Wildcats 0 Volleyball Men’s Soccer Winthrop 3 UCLA 3 Wildcats Wildcats 0 E. Carolina 0 Yale 3 Wildcats 3 Wildcats N.C. State 3 Brown 2 Wildcats Wildcats 0 Field Hockey Radford 4 Wildcats 2

More great stuff

By ALISON KALETT Sports Editor

How does that old phrase go? You come so close you could almost taste it? Undoubtedly, that was the feeling the Lady Wildcats soccer team experienced on Georgia Southern day when they lost a heartbreaker in overtime to Southern Conference rival Georgia Southern University by a score of 1-0.

The Wildcats fought their opponents to a scoreless tie, but approximately five minutes into sudden death overtime a Georgia Southern forward headed the ball into the left corner of the goal for the winning score. Senior co-captain Katherine Cornelius said that the team played well, holding their opponent scoreless for 90 minutes and improving their play from previous games. However, Cornelius was still disappointed, saying that the team did not play up to their full potential. “It’s unfortunate to lose, especially in OT,” Cornelius said. “We have high expectations. It’s not that huge of a setback. We’ll be able to come back with our next conference game.”

This is the second year in a row the Wildcats have fallen one goal short against their conference foes. Last September the ‘cats lost by a score of 2 to 1. Making the loss even harder to swallow was the fact that the Wildcats were unable to garner their first win of the season. Earlier in the week, they fell to Wake Forest University 4-0, dropping their record to 0 and 3 overall and 0 and 1 in the conference.

Despite the disappointing losses, the Georgia Southern game was evidence of marked improvement in the team’s defensive play. They did not surrender a goal for 90 minutes and junior goalkeeper Chesley Garrett had a solid performance. The offense, on the other hand, has yet to make its presence felt. Through four games, the Wildcats have found the back of the net only once and have 26 shots on goal compared to their opponents' 97. Keeping in mind, however, that the Wildcats have a very challenging schedule, the slow start to the season is more likely due to challenging opponents more than a lack of effort. As Head Coach Kevin Hundley pointed out earlier in the season, the Lady Wildcats are encountering very difficult teams, many of which have legitimate chances of making the NCAA tournament.

Looking ahead, the team will look to earn their first win either tonight at 7 pm against conference foe Furman College or Saturday afternoon at 4 against Morehead State.

Tommy Dugan Football

Dugan, a senior quarterback, ran for 118 yards on 16 rushes. He had a 73 yd. touchdown run and threw a touchdown pass to Corey Crawford in a tough 19-14 loss to Jacksonville University.

Men’s Soccer Wed. Sep 16th Liberty (6:15) Fri Sep 18th Georgia Southern (7pm) Women’s Soccer Tues Sep 15th Furman (7pm) Sat Sep 19th Morehead St (4pm) Volleyball Tues Sep 15th UNCG (7pm) Fri Sep 18th @ App St. (pm) Sun Sep 20th E. Tenn St. (2pm) Football Sat Sep 19th @ Un: South (11:30 am) Field Hockey Tues Sep 15 @ Catawba (4:30 pm) Sat Sep 19th N. Louisville (1pm) Sun Sep 20th @ Ohio (11am) Golf Sun. Sep 20th Charleston S. Invitational (TBA)

Dennis Cowardin Davidson player fights for the ball during the UCLA game.

Still, all hope is not lost. According to Stroble, “We’re going to stay positive and look to turn the season around.” Davidson will next face Liberty University at home this Wednesday at 7:30 pm.

Project Life Spaghetti dinner & dessert Friday 5-7, Middle of Court behind SAE & Warner Hall $6/person benefits Project Life. Rain Location: Outpost Live Music

Men’s Soccer VS. Georgia Southern Women’s Soccer VS. Furman

Both the men’s and women’s soccer teams have key Southern Conference games this week. The men take on G. Southern Fri. at 7 and the women play Furman tonight at 7 pm.