By Jere GOLDMAN
Staff Writer

Wednesday, Feb. 18, Jennifer Shewmake, a representative from the Amigos de las Americas (Friends of the Americas), was in the Morrison Room of the Union from 3:00-5:00 p.m., looking for volunteers for their program, which helps underdeveloped rural communities in Latin American countries. Amigos is a nonprofit organization based in Houston, Texas, that sends roughly 630 volunteers abroad every summer to assist various agencies and organizations with projects throughout Latin America. These volunteers supplement the workforce of these organizations for their six- or eight-week tour of duty in the country.

This summer, work will range from reforestation and stove construction in Honduras, latrine construction and AIDS awareness education in Mexico, rabbit farming in Ecuador, immunizations in Paraguay, English classes in Costa Rica, repairing homes in Bolivia, and various other projects throughout Latin America. These are year-round projects in which Amigos participates only during the summer, working in association with government agencies and international organizations. When the volunteers go home, the work continues. And often Amigos returns to the same communities the next year, to continue work started the year before.

Amigos de las Americas was founded in 1965 as “an international, voluntary, not-for-profit organization that, through service, provides leadership development opportunities for young people, promotes community health for the people of Latin America, and facilitates cross-cultural understanding for the people of the Americas.”

Program offers summer opportunities in Latin America. Since 1965, it has included 18,000 volunteers working in 15 different countries. Since 1977, Amigos has been the only youth organization that has affiliate status with the western arm of the World Health Organization, the Pan American Health Organization. Amigos also has membership in Interaction, Independent Sector, and the National Council on International Health.

Applicants to Amigos must apply by Mar. 15. The requirements for application are simply that the applicant be over 16 years of age and have either one year of high school Spanish (though two years are preferred) or two college semesters of Spanish. Applicants may apply for either six- or eight-week tours of duty. Volunteers undergo a weekend training session in the United States, then are given specific training when they arrive in-country by veteran members of Amigos. Scholarships are available for volunteers, usually in amounts ranging from $100 to $1200, and some volunteers have received course credit when it was applicable to their work in Latin America. Many volunteers return next summer for another tour, and experienced volunteers may be asked to serve as project leaders.

“My brief but powerful exposure to a totally foreign lifestyle and people has taught me to be more open-minded,” said Paul Kang, an Amigos volunteer in Oaxaca, Mexico in 1995, “I have learned more about myself. All that I have encountered, done, and learned have come together to make this the most uplifting and enjoyable experience of my life.”

If you are interested in Amigos and missed the presentation, you can contact Jennifer Shewmake at 1-800-231-7796, extension 133.

Former governor visits Davidson
By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

Douglas Wilder, former Governor of Virginia, spoke in the 900 Room on Monday night at 7:30 p.m. Wilder, who was the first African American elected to be a state governor, spoke as part of Diversity Week. In his speech, Wilder addressed current civil rights-related issues, shared some of his personal experiences, and touched on the advances won by the Civil Rights Movement.

In his speech, Wilder praised the vast gains that he believes have been made in the area of civil rights due to the sacrifices of early African American leaders. However, he also suggested that the cohesion of neighborhoods and families has eroded, creating problems that were not present during earlier times.

“Despite the gains which have been made in the area of civil rights, we have lost ground in other areas,” said Wilder. “What is today is vastly better than what was. In the past, you couldn’t go to a store, a school, a restaurant, or a hotel because of the color of your skin. However, we have lost ground we held even in the height of segregation. No president or Congress gave it to us, nor has any taken it away from us. Much of the blame falls on our own shoulders. Our forbearers gave us moral authority. They didn’t allow poverty to be an excuse for low moral behavior. The neighborhood wouldn’t condone unwed motherhood or murder. Fathers took care of families and worked along with mothers. There is not that moral authority in this country today.”

Wilder suggested that politicians should offer specific plans for problem solutions rather than speaking vaguely about wanting new programs. However, he suggested that the real answer to neighborhood problems lies...Within the local community, local political bodies, and local churches, Wilder emphasized the importance of individual action and involvement. Wilder also spoke about what he sees as the future needs and challenges of civil rights and the African American community. In his opinion, the “next challenge is leadership. We need leaders to challenge traditions and challenge doctrines.” He also commented on current needs to “rebuild character, instill confidence, and rebuild communities.” Wilder suggested that it is important that parents and other community members not try to overprotect children from all of life’s difficulties. “We need to tell (children) the truth,” he said. “Life is never easy for anyone. Life was never intended to be easy. Isn’t life really about making something, doing something, (and) being someone to the extent that you make a difference?”

In his speech and in the question-and-answer period that followed, Wilder addressed several specific issues. He is against teaching students Ebonics. Instead, he believes that correct grammar and pronunciation are vital in order for students to succeed in the real world. Wilder also suggested that the current stumbling block for welfare reform is a need for more jobs, not a need for more job training. In his experience as Virginia governor, he found that welfare recipients were being successfully trained for jobs, only to discover that the “jobs just were not there.”

---

Frequently vomit after eating.
10. I feel guilty after eating.
17. I eat diet foods.
23. I engage in dieting behavior.
25. I enjoy trying new rich foods.

Answer the questions using the following responses: A=always, U=usually, O=often, S=sometimes, R=rarely, N=never

1. I am terrified of being overweight.
2. I avoid eating when I am hungry.
3. I find myself preoccupied with food.
4. I have gone on eating binges where I feel I may not be able to stop.
5. I cut my food into very small pieces.
6. I am aware of the calorie and fat content of the foods I eat.
7. I particularly avoid foods with a high carbohydrate content.
8. I think others would prefer if I ate more.
9. I am preoccupied with a desire to be thinner.
11. I think about burning up calories when I exercise.
12. Other people think I am too thin.
13. I am preoccupied with the thought of having fat on my body.
14. I take longer than other people to eat my meals.
15. I avoid foods with sugar in them.
18. I feel that food controls my life.
19. I display self-control around food.
20. I feel that others pressure me to eat.
21. I give too much time and thought to food.
22. I feel uncomfortable after eating certain foods.
24. I like my stomach to be empty.
26. I have the impulse to vomit after meals.

Scoring: 3 for never, 2 for rarely, 1 for sometimes, 0 for always, usually, and often. Total scores under 20 points indicate disordered eating. You might benefit from further evaluation at the Student Counseling Center (x2451).

—TEST DEVELOPED BY Dr. PAUL GARFINKEL

---

New Phi Beta Kappa MEMBERS ANNOUNCED

Meredith Rossney Allen
Christopher Richard Bagley
Meredith Lynn Benke
Travis John Benn
Heather Kathryn Brown
Lauren Ann Cayton
Allison Johnston Coble
Beth Ann Denius
Paul Daniel Dryden
Lorraine Mary Eadie
Matthew Jay Ellis
George Kevin Escaravage, Jr.
Elizabeth Anne Field
Amanda Gail Fleishman
Anne Allen Ford
Mary Noël George
Donna Lynn Gribble
Daniel Marshall Guill
Vaishali Gupta
Trevor Glenn Hackman
Kenneth James Howard
Deepa Jayaprakash Kamath
Dayna Ellen Lee
Mary Kathryn Lee
Benjamin Thomas Lukey
Elizabeth Lindsay Maney

The following students have accepted election to Phi Beta Kappa (Gamma of NC Chapter) and will be initiated on Monday, 23 March.

Carla Diane Marie Derrick
Ray Miller
Jaime Chandler Moore
Nancy Elizabeth Morefield
Douglas Todd Neumann
Amy Christine Oakes
Nathan Cameron Ohler
Patricia Carole Perkins
Kirsten Leigh Petersen
Jacquelyn Maria Rasulo
Erika Renée Rissing
Jessica Campbell Robblee
Joshua Douglas Roberts
David Andrew Santschi
Ingrid Lynne Shore
Erin Emily Steffensmeier
Charles Alan Stormont
Gina Casey Strangis
Dara Lin Suderman
Dominick Joseph Talvacchio
Kristina Ruth Taylor
Diem-Thu Nguyen Thieu
Carrie Elizabeth Van Deest
Laura Amanda Walker
Amy Catherine Whitmore

—Press RELEASE

SHONEY’S Now Hiring. All Positions. EARN $750-$1500/WEEK Cornelius - Flexible Hours, Benefits, Meal Compensation. Apply at 20657 Holliday Lane.

Raise all the money your student group needs by sponsoring a VISA Fundraiser on your campus. No investment & very little time needed. There’s no obligation, so why not call for information today? Call 1-800-323-8454 Ext. 95.

HELP WANTED

Be a business success before you graduate. Avon needs savvy sales reps. Call Gloria (609) 871-0542.

HELP WANTED

Men/Women earn $375 weekly processing/assembling Medical I.D. Cards at home. Immediate openings, your local area. Experience unnecessary, will train. Call Medicard (541) 386-5290 Ext. 118M.