THE DAVIDSONIAN

BYO isn’t a true fix

So, the Alcohol Policy is up for review once again. This year, though, major changes are being proposed. The biggest: switching to a BYO system on the Court. The policy change still has to go through CCRL, Dean Shandley, President Vagt, and the Board of Trustees, but at this point, the proposal does not look like the most popular of choices among students (although the Alcohol Committee’s vote was evenly split).

I can see the advantages of switching to a BYO system, especially from the Court houses’ point of view. By not providing alcohol, houses decrease their liability — and therefore, their insurance costs. And since buying alcohol for parties must take a rather large chunk out of houses’ treasuries, going BYO could allow dues to be decreased, or the money could be reallocated to cover other expenses. This, of course, is a happy thing. But at what other costs?

At Davidson, most — perhaps all — of the cases of dangerous alcohol consumption begin before students ever get to the Court. The drinking begins earlier than Court fun, and the trouble starts when people do shots or play drinking games to get drunk before a party. A BYO policy would drive students to drink even more often — and in higher quantities — in their rooms, if only so they don’t have to keep track of their nine allotted beers all evening. Excessive drinking in rooms could especially be a problem for those who drink underage; because they do not have legal access to alcohol, they can’t “bring their own” down to the Court and therefore have no other options but to drink in their rooms. (The current Alcohol Policy, as most of us realize, has loopholes that make it possible for those under 21 to drink on the Court, although it has become progressively more difficult to do so.)

The BYO policy may also encourage drunk driving. If alcohol is not available on the Court, students may go elsewhere to drink (i.e., bars or clubs) and will end up driving back to school not fully sober. That alcohol is so readily available now on campus helps combat drunk driving, a problem that plagues many other colleges that are “dry” or whose parties occur off-campus.

BYO may also further alienate Independents from the Court. Although Independents have been encouraged to participate in Court life to a great extent, a BYO policy will add to the exclusive stereotype of the Court. How comfortable will Independents feel in a house in which they cannot drink? (This according to Jen Dennis’s news article.)

The loss Court-goers may feel most of all, though, is intangible: The BYO policy will change the atmosphere of the Court. Part of inter-Court bonding occurs due to alcohol, in a way. Knowing that a member of Rusk can drink a beer at a Phi Delt party provided by Phi Delt (and vice versa) creates a closeness that may not be felt with a BYO policy. “Share and share alike,” remember?

But, as Jen’s article also points out, it all comes down to one basic thing: Would students rather have houses pay lower insurance premiums, or would they prefer to “drink together in a social atmosphere”? (Beyond that, of course, it comes down to the votes of two prominent administrators and two very important boards.) It’s time to choose.

Sarah K. Codlar

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN, RANDY SKATTUM

News Editors
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Sports Editors
SALLIE McMURRAY, MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE, BRATTON HOLMES, BRIAN MAYERHOFER

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Sports Layout Editor
WILLIAM MORETZ

Circulation Manager
MERRITT ABNEY

Op-Ed Editor
ERIN McKINLEY

Advertising Managers
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS

Copy Editors
DAVID JOHNSTON, ANNA ERICKSSON, SCOTT REEDER, WHITNEY BLAKE, CINDY CLARK, LYNSAY MADLEY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

To Submit LETTERS TO THE EDITORS
Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1998

That time of year again

April means a number of different things to everyone. For some it signifies the arrival of Spring and all related aspects: flowers, buds on trees, and love. For others, April recognizes the approach of Easter and of Passover. However, for seniors across this nation, the arrival of Apr. 1 means the beginning of the arduous process of deciding on a school, based upon the schools that accepted you. Having gone through the process, everyone on campus could probably recount a personal story of how they found out about Davidson and how they chose to receive their undergraduate education.At this institution, we each have a story to tell; we told it during orientation and we will tell it at future job interviews. Yet while we outwardly laugh at the struggle that younger siblings or acquaintances are going through in making this decision, inside we recollect our own strife and eventual happiness or unhappiness (as the case is for a handful of freshmen). Now, in an attempt to make this process easier for all prospectives involved (and their families), many colleges hold “open house”-type functions. Here, at Davidson, the event is called “Decision Davidson” — powerful-sounding alliteration akin to such phrases as “This is CNN,” “Dateline: NBC,” or Marv Albert’s bellowing “Yes!” (prior to his indictment). Like a few of my current classmates, I was unable to attend the scheduled event, primarily because of conflicts with school and the difficulty of traveling 500 miles on short notice. Even now I somewhat regret my decision to forego meeting future classmates for a test in my AP Calculus BC class. But of course, that was a decision I had to make about “Decision Davidson.”

In two weeks, we will be meeting those students who were able to travel the distance to the small town of Davidson to get a glimpse of one of their many possible institutions of academic advancement. In two weeks, we will be put into the spotlight as possible peers in a future educational experience that will determine the rest of their lives. In two weeks, we will be part of the decision that comes with “Decision Davidson.” While all prospectives are going to be following a rigid schedule of programs varying from lectures to an activities fair, there will be some that may hang around afterward and wander about the campus trying to catch a glimpse of “college life.” While still others will actually be spending the night, experiencing the Court, learning the intricacies of dorm living, and eating the delicacies of the Commons.

Whether you are a senior who thinks that the idea of looking at a college is trivial in comparison to finding a job or a freshman who is attempting to forget the entire college decision experience, it is still your job to help show these future Wildcats what you can about Davidson, both the academia and the atmosphere. If this means that you explain to a lost prospective that the way to Cunningham has to take them past the Union, or you bring them to Cunningham yourself, that is your decision. In the end, we should just go on with business as usual, enjoy the fact that some students may want to be like you one day, and, of course, try to “make them feel welcome.”

---

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

A word from the SGA

An open letter to the Davidson College Faculty:

On behalf of the Student Government Association, we wish to express our gratitude to the professors who have submitted their fall semester book requests. Prompt return of these forms allows the bookstore to explore used book and buy-back options. This, in turn, saves us students thousands of dollars each semester. We truly appreciate these cost-saving techniques. Also, we encourage the remaining faculty members to please complete their book requests as soon as possible. Thank you!

Sincerely,
The Student Government Association

Davidsonian lacks Classical Studies tack

To the Editors:

We have been receiving The Davidsonian here in Greece for the past three months and we’ve been disturbed — especially by the lack of coverage of Classical Studies. Others have, too! A Seminar Abroad member’s mother sent him a letter expressing her concern: “Maybe if we paid those editors they would include articles such as, ‘Egg and Dart or Tongue and Groove: Which Fits the Molding?’” These issues are debated on other campuses, why not ours? We held a meeting concerning this issue, but only one person showed. He thought he was attending a “Vamanos Van” meeting in the Green Room of the Union. On his flight back someone explained to him that, actually, he had been in Greece. Were he a Classically trained student, he would have been aware of the subtle differences between a Mediterranean country and a room without windows.

The most important lesson learned by any student of the Classics is from the ancient people group of the Phoenicians and their celebrated “Ideal of Standing.” A good Phoenician never sat down. In their tongue, sitting equaled apathy. To offer a Phoenician a chair was tantamount to offering your left hand to someone from the Indian subcontinent. So learn from this, Wildcats! We wouldn't have to get off our butts if we did not sit down. So, let’s go! Break out of your comfort zone. Walk over to that “different” table in the Commons and stand there. Then pull its occupants out of their chairs to stand with you and together write an article about Classical Studies.

Standing up for Classical Studies on the Classics Seminar Abroad,
W.A. Stokes, ‘00
A.G. Letizia, ‘99
J.F. Paulus, ‘99