__THE DAVIDSONIAN__

To the wire

It is 4:43 on Tuesday morning. I am sitting here in a heinously orange chair that is wreaking havoc on
my back, still writing this editorial. It seems wrong that we — the dedicated few — should be laboring in
the Union at such an ungodly hour, but here we are. I am a procrastinator. It is a fact of
life that I have learned to accept, but it still irritates my parents and makes my roommate twitch. “I'll do
it tomorrow,” I say. And I really do mean to — I just don’t always have time, or energy, or
resources... or I don’t feel like it.

While some claim that this tendency of mine to do things at the last minute is a terrible, ulcer-forming habit,
I must disagree. I actually enjoy doing things at the latest plausible time. I guess I work well under pressure
— in fact, I know I do. Why else would I choose to watch “Top Gun” the night before my
religion paper is due, only to awaken at 5:30 the next morning to dash it off (and, might I add,
with good results)?

I am not a masochist; I procrastinate because I can, because I have my priorities straight enough and know myself
well enough to be able to accurately predict how long a given task will take me. I have learned to
budget my time into two distinct categories: work and not-work. I spend as much time as possible avoiding work, but
when it’s finally time to buckle down, I do. None of that falling asleep in my carrel (me? what carrel?)
or staring out the window instead of at a book; I work and play equally hard, and I make a
conscious effort to keep my two worlds as separate as possible.

Yet I feel as if I am looked down upon by all the people who schedule their lives to the
minute. Why is that? What do we have to be ashamed of? Friends, let us band together to form a
common union. The few, the proud, the procrastinators. We’ll start tomorrow.

anah. £. Qpdar

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998

Color-blindness at Davidson

A few days ago, I became more aware of how there is a lack of recognition of color-blindness, at least
by the students of Davidson. While walking to dinner the other evening, a friend and fellow 3rd Littler noticed a
gradation in the sky above the Commons. Commenting on the beautiful scene that was created as a purple hue slowly
grew into the twilight blue of the evening, my friend eventually realized the error in his ways. For while the
others in the group were able to admire the vibrant colors that nature had produced, I was only able to
see what I know to be a blue sky at dusk: no gradation, no nothing.

You see, I have a red-green color deficiency, often referred to as color-blindness. A chromosomal defect that I share with
eight percent of men and two percent of women, it causes me to see some shades of red as black
and not to be able to see a difference between other shades of red, brown, or green. Over the many
years of my life, I have grown to accept this defect (I guess I have to, no matter what) and
go on with things. However, while a number of people seem to think that I am jealous of my non-color-blind
counterparts, I can honestly say that I’m not. I actually think that my deficiency is more of a blessing in
disguise. For example, there is no better way of introducing oneself than with the phrase “Hi, my name’s Randy. I
gave my mother a dark green Valentine’s Day card when I was five because I thought it was red,” which
can often be followed up with the phrase “No, I wasn’t celebrating St. Patrick’s Day early.” This experience, along with
others that I have had, give me great conversation-starters.

Don’t get me wrong, now, but having a color deficiency does have its drawbacks. To name one, some LED clocks
appear completely blank. This often inspires my friends to ask the question “Randy, what time is... oh, my bad.” Other
problems exist with stoplights (I’m not saying that I can’t drive; I’m just saying that the green looks white, and
the red sometimes flashes in and out. But I figure if everyone else is stopped, I might as well, too.),
matching socks (you wouldn’t believe how much a black dress sock looks like a navy blue one), and trying to
decipher the difference between a black marker and a red one on any of the boards within Chambers.

My color deficiency, as it is commonly called, is a nice addition to what makes me who I am. While
I sometimes feel left out of certain conversations or situations, I know that my friends don’t intentionally single me out
or try to make me feel awkward. I’m just slightly different than the rest of them, and it’s because of
that difference that I am able to bring a little more diversity to that group. The same thing is true
for everyone else on this campus, for each one brings something to Davidson to make it that much better.

Caudig Baltard

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Diversity Week involvement low

To the Editors:

Do we have diversity at Davidson? Was Diversity Week, intended by the Committee on Minority Affairs to be a celebration
of all cultures, unnecessary as there is nothing to celebrate? Believe it or not, 43 states and 21 countries are
represented in the student body. Although there may be only a few representatives of a region...or country, diversity is here
if one takes the time to find it. Before we can expect more diversity at Davidson, we must appreciate the
diversity that is already here. There was clearly a lack of appreciation for the activities that were planned this week,
with the exception of the supportive turnout at the FLAG fashion show and the two parties on Friday and Saturday
nights. Even President and Mrs. Vagt came to the Unity Party at the BSC on Friday, so the problem was
not a lack of advertising. Why, then, were the International Cafe and the Preconceived Notions Forum so sparsely attended? Why
was “The Color of Fear” shown at the Outpost Thursday to only a handful of students? The Davidson “family” has
become dysfunctional, for this is the only way to describe a family that doesn’t support its own members. Patterson Court
repeatedly takes the blame for polarizing the campus, but in reality, we don’t appreciate the diversity within ourselves. True diversity
does not come from a multitude of colors, a blend of languages, and a mixture of culture alone; it is
found in recognizing the differences in each of us and cumulating these unique facets to improve the community in which
we live.

Kristen Taylor
~The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Asst. News Editor
MIKE GILLESPIE

Photo Editor
SALLIE McMURRAY

Circulation Manager
MERRITT ABNEY

Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
DOUGLAS CUTTING
SCOTT REEDER
LYNSAY MADLEY

Sports Editors
BRATTON HOLMES
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
ANNA ERIKSSON

Advertising Managers
DAVID JOHNSTON
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

Editors in Chief

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

The color of apathy

Diversity at Davidson is dead. The funeral was held Thursday night at the Outpost. Thursday night, the coordinators of Diversity
Week organized a film, “The Color of Fear,” and a subsequent discussion to be facilitated by Dean Jeffries. The film
offered a wonderful opportunity for students to engage in honest, meaningful discussion about diversity and race relations, tremendous problems facing
Davidson on a daily basis. It documented nine men who sat down in a rural retreat to bear their souls
— their fears, their hopes, their dreams and disappointments. What an extraordinary lead-in for such a conversation to occur here
at Davidson. Finally, we would be able to talk honestly! Finally, we would be able to understand it’s okay to
be imperfect! Finally, we could get it all out on the table! That “we” turned out to be six people,
including two or three student organizers and Dean Jeffries. That means there were only two or three students who didn’t
have to be there with enough interest and initiative to attend. Three students?!? Out of 1600? I left the film
fuming, wondering what the hell could be so important to 1594 students that none of them could take time out
to face an issue not only threatening the success of our college, but the fabric of our nation! Is there
any issue more important, more crucial, to the life of every student in this college than the development of an
understanding among people of how to live together?

Our campus is a campus divided by skin pigmentation. Africans and African-Americans can be seen daily sitting almost exclusively at
one long table in the Commons. Asians and Asian-Americans often are seen clustered together on the way to class. European-Americans
are seen on a regular basis living oblivious to the other two groups. Why is this so? What makes skin
color so powerful that it determines one’s friendships, hangouts, and even mealtime conversations? Why are there so few minorities even
attending this school? These questions cannot be answered if they are not asked. And no matter how many Martin Luther
King, Jr. Day events you attend, no matter how much you dance at the Unity Party, and no matter how
loud you laugh at the Fashion Show, these questions will remain unasked, these problems will remain unsolved until people care.
I challenge you, on this day, five days after the death of diversity, CARE people! Ask questions! Attend movies and
discussions! Make yourself aware that Davidson is not problem-free! College is more than homework and drunken weekends. College allows us
the opportunity to meet people from all over the world, to attack topics with youthful idealism and solution-oriented outlooks, to
dream about making the world a better place. Don’t let these opportunities pass idly by. Change a life, make a
difference, leave the library and study something that matters.

Tommy Ross

Thanks for seniors’ patience

Dear Martin Court Residents and All Students,

Thank you to all of the students in Martin Court who tolerated the fast-paced networking project during the semester break.
We all appreciated the cooperation and understanding each of you offered. As with any project, we faced weather delays, unforeseen
structural problems, and a number of outright human errors. We have attempted to address each of these problems and, where
possible, set them right. In response to problems during this past break, we have arranged for better support from the
College, clearer guidelines to the contractor, and more formal information channels to the students. The planning schedule will be shared
with RAs and HCs, who will be able to inform their halls. In addition, wherever possible, updates will be sent
via voice-mail to the affected buildings. Again, thank you for your understanding, and please continue to share your concerns as
we strive to improve the project.

Bob Collins
Kurt Holmes
Physical Plant
Residence Life Office

Marcia Makl
Dan Rushing
Information Technology Services
TICS, Corporation

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS continued on page 11.
