@ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1998

Baker “works” to take incompetency to new heights

The Baker Sports Complex took another giant step forward in its campaign to increase inadequacy last Wednesday. This reporter was
fortunate enough to witness firsthand the key actors in the campaign at work. A fellow newswriter and I had taken
a break from the beat to play a not-so-friendly game of racquetball — or so we thought. We asked at
the front desk for racquets and a ball and we were told, “Sorry, I can’t give them to you.” The
reason given was that racquetball racquets can only be given out when the CEO of Card-Swiping, let’s call her Otto,
is present, and Otto, at that moment, was preparing to leave for the Davidson soccer game. It was about three
in the afternoon. The game was scheduled to start at 5:30.

Though I was there to take a break, the news writer in me could not resist the opportunity to report
on this new innovation, this breakthrough, in inadequacy. “Otto, why do you have to be present to hand out racquets?”
I dutifully asked. She responded that she had to guard against people breaking the equipment. I said I think it
is great we are finally getting past the old-fashioned idea of the Honor Code, but what really impresses me was
the way she takes off from work at three and leaves people without access to equipment for the next seven
hours of Baker’s operation. She said, “And that’s not even the best part—in a few months, we are getting rid
of the sports equipment in Baker altogether!” Yippee.

After my encounter with Otto, I was so encouraged about the future of fitness at Davidson College that I went
straight to the top-level to get some more information. I interviewed Joe Schmoedawgg, manager of something-or-other.

More discontent over the Union Café

My reaction to the new Union Cafe was, I think, pretty typical — shock, horror, and sorrow. This terrible array
of emotions culminated in a bout of uncontrollable sobbing. That’s right, folks, the first time I went to the cafe
this year, I broke down and cried. It would have been embarrassing, too, but no one was there, probably because
the new cafe sucks. After a few minutes, I managed to regain control, and tried to orient myself. I needed
to find some familiar, comforting object from which I could draw strength. In an instant, I knew what that object
had to be — salt and vinegar potato chips. Through thick times and thin, salt and vinegar potato chips had
always been there for me. I looked for them frantically but to no avail. My sorrow turned to anger and
I practically yelled at the lady at the register, “Where are the salt and vinegar potato chips?!”

“Right over there,” she said, pointing at the potato chip rack, which had not caught my eye, “on the potato
chip rack.”

“Oh.” I grabbed a pack and hurriedly paid for them. But I knew even as I left, that even though
they still carried my chips, something had to be done, that someone had to do something to get the Cafe
back to the way it was, that someone had to get to the bottom of the evil, heartless, greed-driven vendetta
against the students that the new Cafe represents. Someone had to selflessly devote hours of valuable time to a cause
that would bring only a small increase in welfare to the student body. As I walked out that door I
knew at once who that person had to be — Crazy Joe. Unfortunately, as I later realized, Crazy Joe is
abroad, so someone else would have to take up that torch. Upon reflection, I saw that I had to be
that someone else.

I began my quest by confronting Barbara Metzler, head of dining services. She graciously agreed to see me, insisting that
we meet in her office at once. When asked about the changes to the cafe she said that all of
the changes were made in the best interest of the students. “How,” I asked, “are higher prices, shorter hours, and
a smaller selection in the best interest of the students?”

“That,” she answered, “is a very good question.” Then she cocked her head as if she heard something and said
that she had to go and check on something and that she would be right back. I waited for an
hour and a half, but she never returned. I was a little discouraged by that, but I knew that the
Truth was Out There and I just had to keep looking. I decided to call Ms. Metzler at home. She
smoothly apologized about leaving me, saying that there was a pressing problem at Commons that needed her immediate attention.

“What,” I asked, “was the problem?”

“Um, there was, uh, a hot turkey sandwich mishap.”

“Say no more. Just answer this question: what was your motivation in changing the configuration of the Cafe?”

There was a long pause. Finally, she answered. “You really want to know? Fine, I'll tell you. It wasn’t for
the...Students benefit; it wasn’t to cut costs; it didn’t have anything to do with money or business. We did it
because we are pure evil. It’s that simple. We just like to see people suffer. It’s in our nature. We
got sick of all you students coming into the Cafe and seeing you walk out satisfied, so we took out
all of the items that you love. By the way, your salt and vinegar chips are next on the chopping
block. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahah, etc., etc.”

(Before I go any further, in light of the recent controversy about journalistic accuracy, specifically regarding various columnists for the
Boston Globe who stole ideas or made up stories, I would like to say that I never technically spoke to
Ms. Metzler. I was unable to contact her. More accurately, I was too lazy to look up her number or
find out where her office was. I would like to point out, however, that just because I made up Ms.
Metzler’s viewpoints doesn’t mean that they aren’t accurate. Had I asked her those questions, she could have given the same
answers that I fabricated.)

Naturally, Ms. Metzler’s candid answers to my question enraged me. I knew that I had to do something, had to
strike back at the cafe. I thought about the Martin Luther King-Gandhi strategy of passive resistance, chaining ourselves to the
potato chip rack and refusing to leave until the Cafe gives in to our demands of lower prices and better
selection. This strategy has two main problems. First, the management would undoubtedly play hardball and call the police. We would
refuse to leave, and the police would probably have to resort to severe beatings and arrests. This would undoubtedly make
the news and would probably adversely affect the size of the Davidson applicant pool (as prospective students would not want
to be severely beaten and arrested by police). This would force the Admissions Office to admit a larger percentage of
applicants, which would cause Davidson to slip even farther in the U.S. News and World Report rankings. This would make
it more difficult for Davidson graduates to find jobs, which could result in unemployment no longer being a problem for
only English and Art History majors, but the rest of us, too. Second, the potato chip racks are movable.

So, this leaves us with only one feasible option to get the cafe to pay attention to us — theft.
If we steal enough from them, they will have to listen to reason. I expect everyone to do their part.
I, for one, have already started. Today I stole a Gatorade, a Kit-Kat bar, and three of those pre-packaged cheese
and mayonnaise sandwiches. We must all work together. In the words of Abraham Lincoln, “A house divided against itself cannot
stand.” If we all work hard to pilfer as much as possible, we will soon have our old beloved cafe
back.

Down there, and he added new insight: “You know, the Honor Code is really an obsolete, antiquated idea. We have
been trying to get rid of it for years. And responsibility is so overrated.” I agreed — Otto had quoted
some ridiculous statistic about how 36 racquets had been maliciously destroyed in the last two years. Wow, I thought, 36
racquets — those punks spent up almost one-eighth of one percent of one student’s tuition! And yes, it is a
wonderful thing to throw logic out the window. Instead of prosecuting the destroyers of College property under the Code of
Responsibility, why don’t we just remove the athletic equipment from the athletic facility?

Upon further interrogation, Joe finally revealed to me the plans for the “new” Baker. “We really want to be on
the cutting edge of fitness technology, so we have a few ideas in the works,” he said. “If the new
athletic equipment at the athletic facility policy is received as well as we hope, we plan to, in the next
year, implement a bring-your-own-Soloflex policy. We would provide absolutely nothing except for safety goggles and the little card-swiping thing, and
perhaps we’d cut off electricity, too! What we are hearing from students is that less is more.”

My heart stopped. The day I had dreamed of has arrived. A day when we can devote thousands of dollars
to the operation of a service that, in effect, is not a service. A day when nobody does their job.
It is usually kind of bad protocol for professional newswriters like myself to take a stance on an issue in
the news; however, news like this just doesn’t come along every day, and I can’t help but show my bias.
I would like to give the good folks at Baker a written round of applause. Thank you for making our
lives more difficult. Our professors try, but let’s face it, blatant inadequacy works better than an extra hundred pages to
read any day. Thank you for working to quickly become the South’s foremost college sports complex. Thank you for your
commitment to incompetence.

TO OPINE IS DIVINE. WRITE FOR Op-Ed. Call Erin (x6064).
