2... THE DAVIDSONIAN

...greets them as they’re walking, the faculty member that smiles and says hello and 600 prospective students and parents invade campus for Discover Davidson.

CARRIE ARTHUR
Assistant News Editor

Saturday, September 13, approximately six hundred people converged on Davidson’s campus for Discover Davidson, an annual day for prospective high school seniors and their families. Kathy Bray Merrell, Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid, planned the day. The program began with tours of the campus, and then President Vagt, Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Nancy Cable, and William Bradshaw ‘99 gave the visitors an overview of Davidson. After the speeches, the prospectives attended a forty-five minute fair with representatives from each of the academic departments and student organizations. Bray Merrell said the purpose of the fair was “to answer students’ specific questions while they were on campus.”

Also during the morning, the Davidson Generals and the Delilahs performed for the first time at Discover Davidson. Then, the visitors attended a series of seminars which continued throughout the afternoon. The day concluded with panels for students and parents. Jay Scanlan ‘00, co-coordinator of tours, said, “It appears that the overall student tour guides were very well received. In all accounts, the prospective students seemed to have had a very good experience with their tours.” In addition, tour co-coordinator Jesse Smallwood ‘00 felt that “most of the students that come to Discover Davidson are already enthused about it” and that “the tours helped to reinforce the positive impressions that they have.” Tour guide Ainsley Hines ‘00 echoed Scanlan and Smallwood’s impressions: “It went really well, and the weather was perfect.” Hines continued that the tour guides, especially the new guides, “were very enthusiastic to be there” and that most of the prospectives seemed to be planning to apply.

Bray Merrell saw the speeches which followed the tours as the “only period during the day when we have an opportunity to give an overview of Davidson.” Admissions chose Bradshaw to speak because Bray Merrell said, “he has both a very natural way in dealing with students and their parents and he’s also very articulate. Because of his experiences at Davidson, he’s able to discuss a wide range of activities.”

The Generals and the Delilahs made a favorable impression. Scanlan felt that their performances were the best morning events, and Hines called the singers “fabulous.” Smallwood said, “the Generals were awesome. They convinced me.” Todd Grabill ‘01, a member of the Davidson Generals male a cappella group, spoke for the group: “In performing for Discover Davidson Weekend, we hope that we represented the student body well and gave each prospective and his or her family a look at one of the intangible qualities that makes our school unique.”

Also new this year, simulated lectures by Dr. Don Kimmel, Dr. Abbott, and Dr. Ramirez were included in the seminars. Bray Merrell felt, “I think it (the lectures) is a good idea because it gives the prospective students the option of seeing our professors in action.”

The panels which followed the seminars focused on the most common concerns of students and parents. Students, faculty, admissions counselors, resident life, and student health professionals all participated in the panels. In choosing panelists, Bray Merrell said, “I think there is a natural inclination to invite people we know and to invite the leaders on campus, both within the student body and the faculty.” Admissions wants “to have representation of various academic disciplines and student interests.” She added, “we are always looking for volunteers,” and Bray Merrell invites all interested students to contact her.

Discover Davidson is not the only Admissions program for prospective students. July Experience, a Day at Davidson for juniors, Decision Davidson, programs for individual schools, and college fairs all give the Admissions office contact with high school students. Discover Davidson has traditionally had a positive response. In 1997, 56% of the students who attended Discover Davidson applied, and 34% of these students applied Early Decision. Of those who applied, their acceptance rate was 54%, and the yield rate, the percentage of those who were accepted that enrolled, was 70%. Bray Merrell...said these figures were “significantly higher than our overall applicant pool.” Hannah Grimes ’02 attended Discover Davidson before she applied. She said, “talking to the students was helpful. It was interesting to get their different perspectives.” The results of Discover Davidson this year are still unknown. Ted Scanlan, a prospective who attended, enjoyed the day. He said that “it did portray the college in a fun way.” Scanlan liked that “a lot more in-depth information about programs was provided that I could not have gotten any other way.” From her gauge of “the energy level and general contentment level of the families who visited,” Bray Merrell said, “I think a lot of people went away happy and informed.” She did emphasize that everything is “anecdotal” and that “the ultimate gauge will be how many of them actually apply.”

Despite all of the planning for the day, Bray Merrell believes that the most positive experiences are unplanned: “so often it’s the non-programmed events that really strike a chord with the students. It’s the friendly Davidson student who answers their questions. It can be the friendly Commons employee who goes out of his way to get a visitor something. Those are really the things that I think so often make a profound impression on the students. No amount of programming can put that into action. It just naturally happens here.” Bray Merrell continued that “the Admissions Office feels indebted to the entire community. Everybody is involved in Discover Davidson.” Smallwood summarized the day: “the Admissions Office did a really strong job of allowing the students to see a wide range of Davidson, and it ran without a glitch.”

CERES RT Julie Failey @ Saturday’s all-day Fall Festival on Patterson Court included three bands. Dinner was served outside the Commons.

Service Council sponsors community youth forum

Service Forum from page 1

not too structured. And, they said, it needs to be free. The center will offer entrance to all members of the community, not just YMCA members, striving for diversity and fellowship. The center will most likely begin with students ages 11 to 15, and then open opportunities to older students. The YMCA and the DYAC, then, will complement rather than compete with one another in the focus age groups, spanning a broad spectrum. The center will provide a safe haven, “not just physically, but also emotionally,” said Harris. Early plans for the center show a two-story facility, part focused on quiet space for television, homework, and studies, and part focused on student interaction, with a game room and exercise equipment geared towards teenage bodies. Programming will provide “opportunities for learning and challenge, for growing in a different way.” Students will be encouraged to engage in leadership development and challenge opportunities, such as outdoor recreational trips, and each will develop a personal mission statement. The YMCA hopes to pull ideas for the facility from the students themselves, and is in the process of developing an advisory teen board.

The panel focused on older youth programs as a major need. Harris noted that the suggestion and request has come from community residents in various forums, some of which did not even focus on this area. Additionally, Robinson suggested the development and further use of a community fund to aid people and organizations in need. The fund, she suggested, would target children, and in turn involve children in the welfare of their own community. Funds would help turn children’s dwellings, in neighborhoods, after-school programs, and homes, into a safe haven. Panel members also discussed current educational programs, their effectiveness, and how they can further develop to fill existing needs.

Monday’s youth forum geared itself towards the exchange of information. Needs, visions, and plans were shared between community members, Davidson youth, and college students. Emphasis was placed on what was learned, and what will be done as a result. The Service Council will sponsor two more forums in the coming months: a history of the town of Davidson in October and a housing forum in November.

$$ Hiring Bonus $$

Servers, Line Cooks, Bartenders

Rainbow Deli of