‘THE DAVIDSONIAN Op-Ed TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1998

Universal truths are too easy: Here’s the useful stuff

As I flip through the freshman face book while greedily downing orange Pixy-Stix, I am tempted to join the chorus of voices giving advice to our numerous newcomers. After all, in the face of new eras, everyone deserves a little guidance and nudging in the wise direction. A little pontification from people who’ve been there and done that never hurt anybody. It’s oh-so-silly to repeat mistakes, don’t you agree?

But, alas, my temptation has led me astray. It seems my desire to advise is all for naught. All the good advice has been taken! Upstanding individuals such as President Vagt, Dean Shandley, and Dave Rosenberg have all beaten me to the punch with their sincere and truthful advice. For those without a face book, I shall quickly recap some of the profound teachings I’ve read: Take advantage of the time here; meet cool people; listen to folks; sleep; don’t stay in your “rut;” respect the community and yourself; don’t slack in academia but enjoy yourself; depend on Lucky Charms and anti-diuretics for survival; and the big one: Carpe Diem (or my favorite modern rephrasing, “Don’t burn the day away.”).

This extensive list is all excellent advice that I wish I had gotten to first, but you must admit that it is rather run-of-the-mill. Any trained monkey can think up universal truths. The trick is to give advice that grabs people and doesn’t let go until they submit, disregarding whether or not truth is involved. It is my duty, I feel, to give this sort of advice (since it is all I have to work with). So here it goes.

Don’t skimp on decor. You will be living in the equivalent of a box for the next 250 or so days. Those dorms deserve more than just the odd poster here or there. Go all out. Get creative and make that room yours. It really doesn’t matter what you use. Perhaps flags, glow-in-the-dark stars, paintings, New Yorker cartoons, beaver pelts, assorted fruits, or 8x11 glossies of Fred Savage feel appropriate. The more of yourself that you put into those drab walls, the more at home you'll feel (at least, that’s the theory). The great thing is, it doesn’t have to match! You’re only in college.

Find the crannies and nooks. The beauty of this campus is a continual joy to me. It always warms my soul when I can find a little patch of shady grass or aged stonework to settle my bones upon. I have to be alone sometimes, and these scattered mini-sanctuaries give me just that chance. A library carrel never comes close to the satisfaction of finishing that reading assignment in one of the many soothing and idyllic nooks. Seek them out while it’s still warm.

Take plenty of pictures. This was the true mistake that I made last year. I feel immeasurable regret for neglecting to take photos throughout my freshman year. Last year was a truly singular time that I never want to forget. Yet without pictures, I may just forget many of the delightful details that made the year so joyous. This time around, I am making sure it doesn’t happen again. Thirty years from now, you will wish you had taken one every day. Your children will also be able to laugh at what you and your friends were wearing.

Don’t fret about the other guy. It is a waste of your precious energy to concern yourself with competing with the girl sitting next to you in class. Don’t reduce the Davidson experience to such a narrow driving force. Now, I will admit that the competitive spirit is strong at this institution, but fight that spirit with your last breath. Being consumed by the competition is so unhealthy, as some of you might have learned in high school. It will only bring you misery if you try to be the best, for it will always seem that someone is better. The terrible result of one loss is that you feel as if you don’t have any worth at all. How silly is that? Strive to learn for the joy of it instead of for the win, or else your academic life here will stink. The only person you need to compete with is yourself. Sounds cheesy, but there’s something to it.

That’s all I really have to say; take it or leave it. I am quite hopeful for the new class and all the creativity and energy they will bring to our home. Have a nice week and be sure to take care of all those hapless caterpillars on the sidewalk.

Those left behind: long distance love

I think that just about any adjective I could use to describe this time of year would be appropriate and apt. You’re all smart people; I'll let you think of your own word that makes perfect sense of this dynamic time for you. Whatever your feelings on this time are, I think we all have something in common: We're out of breath. These first few days of college seem to be rushed and frenzied no matter what year you are. After a summer of ease, suddenly everything needs to be done yesterday, and even then you are still a little late with it.

I have encountered this phenomenon while unpacking all of my things and moving into my room. My roommate is highly organized, and he had everything he had brought placed in drawers and arranged by the end of the first day. By comparison, I knew where my desk was and that I would eventually be putting things on and in it. The exact time frame for this did not overly concern me. I knew it would be done inside of a week and that at the end of that time I would be just as organized as my roommate. In the meantime, however, our room is buried in drifts of bags, boxes, and essential items. My friends say, “essentially junk,” but I think they are just essential.

Even this column is a bit of a rush. I ran into my editor two days ago and five minutes later had a column due in twenty hours. Such is the mad whirlwind of college. Battlefield promotions for the brave and nimble-minded are common but always under a cloud of bullets. In my room last night, while I wasn’t unpacking, my roommate asked me about what I was going to write for my column, whose due-date was fast approaching. He also wondered when I was going to get my suitcase off his bed so he could go to sleep. I told him, “I think I'll write about moving in and unpacking. It seems as though that is a subject on the minds of college students today.”

“How about moving in and not unpacking,” was his wry retort.

So, right now I am practicing one of the key skills of college life — balancing obligations and prioritizing your life. It’s never easy, and the priorities keep changing. I’m writing my column, keeping my editor happy, neglecting my unpacking, and upsetting my roommate. College is a juggling act with an ever-increasing number of balls. All of those balls must be kept in the air for nine months, but that doesn’t mean that there isn’t time enough to appreciate, experience, and enjoy each one as you toss it.

I know reading this is probably keeping many of you from important, necessary things (as you hear your roommate give some of your stuff away just to get it out of the room), but in the hurry of beginning or continuing your college career, don’t forget to enjoy every episode of each day. Memories are easily made if you take a few moments to do so. Just make sure you get that suitcase off of your roommate’s bed first.

Just for a moment, let’s testaments of beginning college. If you are unsure as to what I am referring, these are the clichés that each of us has endured from our friends and parents, things like, “This is a great new beginning,” or “What a grand adventure this is.”us forget about the tired old "will be." I would like to step away from this bravado for one moment and touch upon a subject that I am sure many of you have endured as well as myself. One nasty drawback to heading away for college is that one must inevitably leave loved ones behind. Now, I’m not talking about your Great Aunt Myrtle, who would always pinch your cheeks and call you Billy. I’m talking about the girlfriend or boyfriend you left crying in the driveway or at the entrance to the dorm, as you each called out your final good-byes and your final “I love you.”

I’m sure some of you, like myself, have decided to attempt to keep the relationship together. You’ve weighed the pluses and the minuses and opted to try for the “long-distance” thing. Well, as I’m sure you’ve realized, it’s very difficult to remain a “couple” over such a great distance. The first and most odious obstacle to staying together is the horrendously high phone bill you must incur in order to stay in touch with your significant other. I was lucky enough to receive some phone cards from relatives for graduation and let me tell you, they are a lifesaver. I highly recommend going to get them; they are sold at the local 7-11 and often the price for a long-distance call with these is less than the 15 cents a minute that Davidson charges (Not that that’s a bad deal; please don’t expel me).

Another large obstacle is the fact that the other people who had girlfriends/boyfriends on your hall are dying off faster than a mosquito sucking on one of Keith Richards’ veins. Here are a couple of ideas that I think, or at least I hope, will help to keep the love alive. First, call early and call often. Sure, this may put a couple extra grand into AT&T’s pocket, but you don’t have to talk long. If nothing else, call only for a second to leave a quick “Hello, I love you” with your partner. A few words can go a long way, or if you are especially low on cash, or have lost your long-distance card, use the Internet. I don’t know how many of you out there are as dense as I am, but my roommate showed me this marvelous program called ICQ (I Seek You). This allows you to find anyone on the ‘Net. This way you can talk to your loved one and yet not pay anything extra. Granted, you can’t hear their voice, but I guess you’ll just have to trust that it is your significant other and not their 13-year-old brother looking up porn.

One final thing you can do, if it is at all feasible, is to go see the person you profess to love so much. Sure you may have to miss a football game or two, but the rewards are innumerable. There are numerous ways that this can be accomplished. First, put your name on the ride board, but if you don’t know where it is, don’t ask me because I have yet to find it. (I’m sure that it is centrally located and easy to access, and if someone finds it, PLEASE let me know.) Should you not be lucky enough to either find the ride board or gain a ride after finding it, perhaps a caring roommate or hall mate is up for a road trip and would be kind enough to take you. Should this be the case, buy the gas! Remember, this person is doing you a tremendous favor, and quite frankly you owe them more than just gas. Finally, if none of the above works, there’s always good old Greyhound or Amtrak. These two fine transport companies can be found on the web and have semi-decent rates. I feel this is the appropriate time to throw in a shameless plug — if you are planning a trip to Harrisonburg, Va., let me know.

Now that that is done with, I guess my bottom line is this: if you truly love this person you’ll do whatever it takes to stay together — even if this involves dipping into the trust fund or selling one of your organs on the black market. As for me, I’ve signed up to sell my gall-bladder. My feeling is this: “Bile, schmile, what has bile ever done for me?” Regardless, if you decide that the person you left weeping in the driveway is worth it, then give everything you have to keeping that person in your life. Love is a powerful force, as Huey Lewis said, “. . .it’s the power that makes the world go ‘round.” I leave you with these two things: first, fight for love with all that you have, for there is no more honorable or worthy cause in the world; and second, best of luck to you all. I love you, Joanna, and I’ll see y’all ‘round.

Stacey, then Katy, Laura, Sherry, and finally — my breath held in anticipation — I heard the glorious pronunciation of my name. Haley was informing me of her list of best friends in a carefully scripted order which began with “the most liked” and concluded with “the least of the most liked.” And even though I was only in fourth grade and my social life consisted of playing Red Rover during two 15-minute recesses, it still hurt to find myself so low on the playmate roster. Yet, nine years later, I sometimes wish there were more Haleys around. I was number five, she said. First — someone to bluntly tell me exactly where I fit in. At least that’s what I thought I needed three months ago as I sat outside Chambers and watched my parents and 11-year-old brother come walking towards me. To anyone else they appeared a complete, happy family — two middle-aged adults enjoying a stroll with their pokey son. And for the previous nine months, that is exactly what they had been. Yet, now I was supposed to pack my new life into three boxes and a big black suitcase, ride the 1020 miles back home with this trio, and somehow wedge myself back into the obedient (though at times mouthy) daughter role.

However, I soon realized my parents understood that nine months of freedom can’t be revoked for three months out of the year. Compromises were made, curfews lengthened, and questioning limited. I was shedding the cloak of “our little girl” and trading it in for something in a better size. I liked the change, and yet it scared me; sometimes it seemed like it would have been easier just to resume old roles, to play by former rules. But too much had changed — I still didn’t know where I fit in. If only my parents would just give me the answer; they were never afraid to before. And yet when dinner came around that first night, the table was set as it had been all those years before. Mom on Dad’s right, Sean across from Mom, me across from Dad. And as my brother annoyingly jabbed me in the arm with his fork, I recognized my parents' subtle message — that I would always have a special seat at the dinner table and in their lives. I may not have known just how to act or what things were appropriate to say, but my place was still reserved.

Now, back at school, I’m readjusting (to college life) after a summer-long semi-readjustment (to home life) and once again confronted with the question, where do I fit in? I can no longer classify myself as “new blood” (aka, freshman), or a Fourth Cannonette, or Kerry’s roommate. I’m assuming new identities while clinging to some from the past. There are certain things like old friends and family — that I never want to change, but I’ve decided that, in a strange way, I like the uncertainties, the transformations, the transitions, the searching. So I no longer depend on the Haleys of the world — I’m going to discover and decide for myself where I belong on “the list.”