2 ALD NG was very disappointed in the article that The Davidsonian printed in the last issue regarding how much
one solitary sophomore is annoyed by the freshman class. Miss Taylor does not seem to follow the ideology that if
you don’t have anything to say, you should say nothing. She seems to be from the school of thought that
if you have nothing to say, you should write 500 plus words about it for the school newspaper. After reading
the article, I wondered what Miss Taylor’s motivation was. Maybe her maturity level rose so much in the period from
the end of last school year to the time that she wrote this article that she is no longer able
to converse with us underlings. Possibly one of her Shakespearean articles was cut, and subsequently replaced, by an article written
by an incoherent freshman. Personally, I have offended you by writing for the paper on two different occasions. (Actually, childish
Miss Taylor, you take a concept from one of my articles.) The fact that the paper printed your article makes
me not want to write again. Besides, I am sure that many people in your class compare your philosophic insights
to those of Plato and Aristotle, so I wouldn’t want to try and compete with you. This is not your
school, Miss Taylor.

Also, please, before you start complaining about the editing skills of the freshman class, let me tell you about a
situation that occurred recently. I once wrote for the paper. I was so excited at the possibility of my name
being in print next to such fine columnists such as Miss Taylor. I opened the paper with anticipation not felt
outside of my birthday and Christmas morning. I slowly turned the pages and there was my gem at the bottom
of the right-hand Op-Ed page. My excited and happy demeanor quickly changed when I saw that it wasn’t my name
under my article but Randy Skattum’s. This was a mistake to put someone else’s name on my work. A forgivable
mistake, but a glaring one nonetheless. Obviously, young Miss Taylor would have caught this mistake had she not been spending
too much time calculating the actual tuition hike that track-lighting would add.

If it were not for the freshmen, the paper would have many more blank spaces. What would happen if no
freshmen wrote for the paper? We would have to endure more “literary masterpieces” written by Davidson’s own... there is no
comparison. Miss Taylor’s work is truly in a league of its own. I do agree with Miss Taylor that the
paper would be much more interesting if there were more articles about hooking up. But then, by what I can
gather from your racy nickname, you sexy “Corvette,” you might monopolize every headline. I realize that an astute journalist such
as Miss Taylor would do her homework before writing her article, so I question why, in her plea to the
upperclassmen to write more articles for the paper, she uses freshman Seth Davis as an example of an exemplary writer.
I am just curious about this point, so I was just hoping you could shed some light on the unrefined
eyes of this freshman. Also, don’t you think, Miss Taylor, that we freshmen are tired of reading articles about the
unknowing freshman class? Obviously, there was one large blank space that needed to be filled when the paper was forced
to print your article. Personally, I think that the blank space would have been much more interesting. Finally, this is
not your school, Miss Taylor. (Also, here is some advice that you don’t need.)

Say what you want to say, isn’t America grand? As the American Constitution states, we are granted certain unalienable rights
such as life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. In this “land of the free and the home of the
brave,” we are also blessed with the essential right of free speech. This translates to the fact that all Davidson
students have the opportunity to write their own opinion column and say whatever they please, whenever they please (editor willing).
However, there are certain limitations to this free speech and certain boundaries that should not be crossed. There are unspoken
rules of tact in the journalism field and anyone who ignores these deserves to be criticized and reprimanded. That’s the
way it works in the real world and the Davidson bubble. To that end, I take my position as a
columnist very seriously. With the help of Jan Blodgett, I dig through the archives researching my articles and try to
have a distinct point each week. If, after reading the black and white mosaic surrounding my byline, it seems you
have been subjected to an inferior Seinfeld imitation, then I have failed you as a columnist. I feel passionately about
the validity of a student FM radio station, greeting everyone on campus, and upperclassmen involvement with literary publications, and, therefore,
I have written an article in support of each of these topics.

Greetings, everyone, I am here to once again waste time that could be better spent sending a donation to the
“Stop men with small packages from streaking” fund. My, my, what an interesting weekend it has been; not only did
we have a rabble-rousing pep rally (yay), but the Carolina Musicfest came to town as well. Where shall I start?
Perhaps I should just go in chronological order. The pep rally (yay) was quite an interesting experience. I must say
I am forever surprised by the antics of our president, Bobby Vagt. Although as the athletic director said, wasn’t there
just a small part of your brain thinking, “Oh my God! The President is streaking the field!” Much to the
dismay of the female population, it wasn’t President Vagt, but rather Richard Simmons charging the field. Does anyone else challenge
the effectiveness of Sweatin’ to the Oldies? The people on the video are each equal to the size of Ray
Stanz’s innermost thoughts in Ghostbusters. This fact in itself is not displeasing; I hate to see Cyndi (dot the “i”
with a heart) topics.

An inscription on the wall of the Grey Student Union from the days that Davidson was an all-male institution reads
that the College’s purpose is to “liberate the minds of young men for useful lives of leadership and service.” Liberation
is a good way to describe the myriad of techniques our professors use to ensure that it is all but
impossible to passively ace a class. As students, we are forced to question everything: morals, values, beliefs, tradition, authority, and
how our college president can be so cool he shows up to a pep rally in a beater. We are
learning to defend our opinions, and more importantly, what to defend. There is nothing I like better than some healthy
controversy (as a certain non-coed softball player can attest to), and editorials and opinion columns are venues designed for this
type of expression and stimulation. I not only expect, I welcome others to challenge my articles. Accordingly, I will respond
and the natural cycle of journalism continues. We are being taught to question in the classroom, but why leave it
there? As Dr. Tim Waples says, “The goal is not the piece of parchment;” it is the journey. As a
Davidson student, I cherish that the land in which I live gives me freedom to express my opinions, and I
aspire to be brave enough to stand behind them.

TREVOR STANLEY
Student Opinionto take due to your omniscient nature: I would never use anyone named Crabbie as an authority on any
subject.) Davidson is for everyone. If people like you were representative of the Davidson College community, I would not have
come here. A test is a test; I like magnetic silverware and, were it not for the freshman class, you
would have nothing to do with your time or anything to write about in the paper. I wish you would
share with us the intellectual and mind-bending conversations that you have at lunch, but sadly, I feel that once again
you were using your artistic license to embellish the truth. Miss Taylor, my own personal thought to you: If you
were trying to prove a point by your article, you failed. If you were just trying to fill blank space
with unintelligible mutterings, consider the job well done.

Asking vs. demanding and affecting perception... period will draw to a close, everyone else will rise to leave, but I
just sit there. Class discussion has been eventful, lively, and in some cases heated. But, I just sit at my
desk as the next class filters in and ponder what just happened. Conversation began about the previous night’s reading, usually
a philosophically-based exchange on the merit of the writer’s, author’s, or scholar’s words. And, while some people spoke and others
just listened, keeping their views to themselves, each person sat looking puzzled for a time, looking puzzled as the professor
tried to get the discussion rolling. Why? Is this a phenomenon associated with lack of comprehension, or a lack of
ability to comprehend? No. Instead, for me and as I have come to find out, for many of my classmates,
looks cast toward the professor do not have to do directly with the dynamics of the discussion itself, but rather
with the ability of the class to debate abstract ideas and themes without first having defined those terms in a
general sense. Usually, the professor will stop and address the puzzled looks, but other times class will end and I
will sit wondering.

In May of last year, as I was preparing to go home for the summer, and in the thick of
studying for exams, I got frustrated in a meeting and “shot my mouth off.” To say that I had, within
less than a minute, skewed previous perception, undermined respect and influenced the way I was seen would be an understatement.
We all have moments that we wish we could take back and this was one of those moments that I
now accept, but choose not to relive in The Davidsonian — therefore the generalization. I came back to Davidson at
the end of May, to stay for several months and to work with a community organization. Within days of arriving
back on campus I found myself in the midst of a conversation. Through this conversation, I realized a disturbing trend.
I said at one point that I demand a lot from and of myself, and therefore I demand much from
others as well. Furthermore, I said that when those ideas are not even considered, then I respond with frustration. The
person with whom I was speaking responded saying, “Why do you demand anything from anyone? Why don’t you just ask?”
I thought for a moment and the disparity between the two actions and the disparity between the definitions of the
two terms became clear. Demanding, here, is accepting only the answer you want to hear and therefore not offering a
person, or people, any alternative. Asking, on the other hand, is simply posing a question to someone, and offering them
two options from which to choose. Therefore, I decided, after several silent, thoughtful moments, that I would have to consciously
work on the now defined problem — fighting the urge to insolently demand. Later, rethinking the question posed to me,
I also realized that in most normal situations — I won’t say all because of its absolutism — you can’t
control people. You can, however, realistically hope to control yourself, meaning here, to control your reactions to other people’s actions
and words. Within that philosophy, there is no place to demand. Therefore, I see shifting away from negative attitudes and
thought processes as critical elements to continue improving interaction with other individuals. Definition and identification help to facilitate all internal
discussions, just as the same proves beneficial in class.

In several of my classes this semester, with small packages from streaking, the aerobics instructor bouncing around like Dominique Moceanu
(FINALLY), on crack as much as the next guy. However, there are certain people who are recurring characters in his
videos. Yes, believe it or not, I have seen two of his videos; hey, I have to maintain my girlish
figure somehow. My feeling on the matter is this: if the videos work, wouldn’t these people have been slimmer by
the second video? I understand that going from Big Pun to Humpty Hump isn’t likely to happen. However, these recurring
people look as Michelin Man-esque in the second video as they did in the first. It makes me wonder if
Richard is screaming at them after every shoot, “Okay, folks, eat and gorge and stuff and swallow. No time for
chewing, it just burns calories!” Good Lord, now where was I before I embarked on the never-ending tangent? Ah, yes,
the not-so-pep-rally. Being the geeky freshman that I am, I attended the pep rally. Quite frankly, it would have been
nice to have some people other than athletes at the pep rally. Droopy could have reached a higher level of
pep than we did. Now don’t get me wrong, I’m nowhere near being a Spartan Cheerleader (the pants make my
hips look fat), but I do think it would have been cool if we could have gotten a few more
people there. Where was the rest of the Davidsonian’s staff, for that matter? I really do think that my fellow
Davidsonian columnist Jimmy and I were the only people who didn’t stand up to be recognized for a sport. We
were tempted to get up with the football team, since we were sure no one would notice us there. You
could have hidden the Hindenburg, flames and all, in that mass of humanity that is our football team.

Since the Musicfest was covered in last week’s paper, and in an attempt to keep my column a bit shorter,
I will only touch on one thing I encountered at the festival. Why is it that already unattractive people feel
it necessary to make themselves “beautiful” by piercing every conceivable part of their body? There were two Cro-Magnon guys traveling
together at the Musicfest who made the Hunchback of Notre Dame look like Matt Dillon. Both of these guys were
about 6'4", 250 lbs with both nipples, nose, eyebrow, both ears, and navel pierced. One of the guys was also
wearing a dog’s choke collar and big Doc Marten’s combat boots with torn fatigue pants made into shorts. Now, I’m
in no way qualified to comment on the finer elements of fashion, but I have never seen two people who
needed the fashion police called on them more in my life. What is it about state fairs, and apparently musicfests,
that brings out the freaks and dregs of society? Well, that’s all I have this week. Be excellent to each
other, and remember, “Don’t practice the art of avoidance.” Take it easy and I'll see y’all ‘round.
