iE DAVIDSONIAN, Cooke becomes Davidson’s winningest coach MAR 24, 1995 ever with win over cross-county rival UNCC

Cooke from page 20

This proved to be all they would need. While the 49ers would mount threats in both the fifth and ninth innings, the relief pitching of Davidson was strong enough to hold on for the win. Jeff Case pitched a perfect one and two-thirds innings, and DeSimone held on for his third save of the year.

The night before, the Cats had several chances to pull off a similar upset at Carolina. Davidson could only manage four hits off Tar Heel starter Chris Elmore. Elmore went the distance as he yielded only two runs to the Cats. He had great control, striking out seven and walking no one. Even with Elmore turning in a great performance, Wes Self had a great outing. He only gave up two runs (1 earned) in six and two-thirds innings. Therefore, the Cats still had a chance to win late in the game.

Davidson trailed 2-0 in the top of the sixth. Kurt Davis opened the inning by being hit by a pitch. Elmore, making one of his few mistakes, made a throwing error which resulted in Drew Williams reaching base. Davis advanced all the way to third. Ben Brown, the next batter, singled Davis home. Still, Davidson’s best scoring opportunities may have come in the fourth. After Brown and Joyce both singled, Sloan ripped a line drive to centerfield. The Heels defense rose to the occasion as centerfielder Jarrett Shearin made a great diving catch. The next batter, Mike DeSimone, also had an apparent hit when he hit a dying fly ball to right. It looked like it would drop for a hit, but Carolina second baseman, Rob Miano, made a spectacular, over-the-shoulder diving catch to double the Cats up at second.

Carolina broke things open in the bottom of the eighth. Carolina added five insurance runs. The key damage was done when designated hitter Chris LaMarsh hit a three-run home run with one out. The final score was 7-2.

Against Carolina, the starting pitching was solid for Davidson. Ben Brown had two of the Cats' four hits. DeSimone and Brown had the team's RBIs. Another highlight for Davidson was when Kurt Davis threw out Chapel Hill’s Brian Roberts on an attempted steal. Roberts is currently leading the nation in stolen bases. Davidson can bring a lot of positives out of these games. They showed that when they are at their best, they can play with almost anyone in the nation.

Joyce/Brown are fastest Davidson duo ever

The composition of the Wildcats’ lineup has changed much in the past few years. The power-hitting days of Gus Quattlebaum, Brett Boretti, and Brad Edwards are over. Davidson's offensive strategy has turned to a running game of base hits, smart base running, and best single-season count in Davidson history. Brown and Joyce are two of only four Wildcats ever to tally 23+ steals in a season, and the only ones to do so since 1985.

Augmenting Joyce and Brown are two more Wildcats whose stolen base totals have gone largely unnoticed this season. The first, Luke Goodwin, has equaled his output from last season with 16. This puts him in a tie for the twelfth-best single-season mark ever. Jeremiah Parvin, who is more renowned for his power hitting, is fourth on the team with 10 steals. This marks the first time in Davidson history that two teammates have had 20+ stolen bases as well as the first time that four have hit double digits.

Since early in the season, Brian Joyce has been on pace to shatter Davidson's single-season record for stolen bases. The previous record of 27, which has stood since 1985, fell during the Cats' three-game series against UNC-Greensboro. He has since then added three more for a total of 31 stolen bases on 36 attempts. Joyce's success has relegated Ben Brown to a Rodriguez-behind-Griffey scenario. The stats leader gets all the attention. The second place guy gets none, no matter how good he is. Brown's total of 23 stolen bases this season is tied for the third-best single-season count in Davidson history.

Three former Wildcats are having successful seasons in the minor leagues. One of them, Robert Eenhoorn ‘90, was within a few short hours of making the majors. On the California Angels spring training roster, he was sent down to...the minors the afternoon of opening day and missed the night game. Since then, Eenhoorn has signed with the Norfolk Tides, the New York Mets AAA team. After missing the first week of the season, Eenhoorn is batting .250 and has scored four runs on seven hits. A more recent grad, Kady Paul ‘93, is a relief pitcher for the Chattanooga Lookouts, a AA affiliate of the Cincinnati Reds. He leads the Lookouts’ bullpen in appearances and strikeouts and is second in innings pitched and ERA. Jeff Andrews ‘96 is the staff ace for the South Bend Silver Hawks, an A affiliate of the Arizona Diamondbacks. In his first three starts with the team, he has given up two earned runs in 17 innings. His ERA is 1.06, the best of the five pitchers in the starting rotation. Andrews has also held opponents to a minuscule .203 batting average. Despite his solid performance, Andrews is only 1-1 on the season. Hey, Kevin Brown just needed a little run support too. — Mike Hood

Ben Brown’s total of 23 stolen bases this season is the third-best single-season total in school history, but he is still only second on the roster this season.

By Brian MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

Most Valuable Player
Mike DeSimone

While always a fan favorite, Mike DeSimone really came into his own as a player this year. In his first three seasons, DeSimone saw most of his action as a pitcher. While always a good hitter, it wasn’t until this year that he became the Cats' starting designated hitter. DeSimone has had a standout season. He leads the team in several key categories. His performance this season should make him a strong contender for the All-Conference team. DeSimone has hit .351 with 9 HRs and 43 RBIs this season. With a slugging percentage of .586, he leads the Cats in all four of these offensive categories. More than just a bat, Mike has a record of 4-2 with an ERA of 5.15. His four wins and ERA also lead the team. While he has put up great numbers, DeSimone has also been a very clutch player. He has often gotten the Cats out of a tough jam on the mound, and he has provided offensive heroics on several occasions.

Best Rookie
Jeremiah Parvin

Jeremiah Parvin made an immediate impact this season for Davidson. He started forty of forty-seven games in right field. Parvin hit .262 with 6 HRs and 24 RBIs. His six homers tied a Davidson record for freshmen. Just this weekend against ETSU, he hit the Cats' only grand slam this year. Joining Ben Brown and Brian Joyce, Parvin brought even more speed to the Davidson lineup. He finished the season with ten stolen bases. His slugging percentage of .450 was good enough for second on the team. Jeremiah’s arm and defense often saved runs as opposing runners thought twice before going for that extra base.

Most Improved Award
Stewart Sloan

With the departure of Brad Edwards, the job for starting first baseman was left open. Stewart Sloan has ensured that there will be no controversy over the job next season. Sloan has started forty-four games this season. He has hit .299 with 1 HR and 32 RBIs. His batting average and RBI total are good enough for second on the team. He leads the team in doubles (13) and on-base percentage (.404). Last season, Sloan only played in eleven games, always as a reserve. He had four hits in thirteen at-bats with 3 RBIs. Sloan has also proved to be a solid defensive player at first. He has committed very few errors. Like DeSimone, he has generally been a clutch hitter. This was certainly the case this past weekend. While only a sophomore, Sloan can only get better in the next two years.

Leadership Award
Kurt Davis

Davis, a junior catcher, was also a serious contender for most improved. This season, Davis won the starting job behind the plate after platooning the past two years. Davis is always a fiery and vocal leader. He’ll always take one for the team. And he has literally, Davis leads the team in being hit by pitches (13). Davis greatly improved his hitting this season. After hitting .197 last year, Davis rebounded with a .255 average. He has also increased his power numbers as he hit three homers. Still, Davis is most important on the field. He has done a good job in encouraging the freshmen pitchers. His leadership has helped them to develop. This year, Davis has proven why he should be starting at catcher. Davis does the little things that make all the difference.