THE DAVIDPHONIAN

“It’s a great day to be a...”

It has now been about a year since I first arrived here. During that time, I have had the opportunity
to form a number of opinions about the way this campus is run, although I never really shared them in
my editorial space in The Davidsonian. So now, in my last editorial of the year, I have decided to share
with you my most cherished opinion.

Now, it is not concerning the fact that the Independents have no parties, which might have been a direct result
of a conspiracy formed by the Patterson Court Council in an attempt to get more money through PCC sticker sales.
It also has nothing to do with the fact that Chambers may be closed during the evening rather than remain
open 24 hours a day. Instead, it concerns our mascot.

Almost every other nondescript, small college or university has the wildcat as their mascot. If Davidson is supposedly better than
all of these no-name state or private schools, then we should have a better mascot. A mascot that is worthy
of our school, worthy of the students that it represents. So, after serious thought and contemplation, I have come to
the conclusion that our new mascot should be the toothbrush.

Why the toothbrush, you may ask? Well, there are a couple of reasons. The first is the toothbrush’s great history.
The bristle-type toothbrush, which is the precursor to the version that we know of today, was first invented by the
Chinese centuries ago. It was not until the 17th Century that this marvelous invention arrived in Europe. Since that time,
it has established itself as a tool that everyone uses, crossing age, race, gender, and economic boundaries, a feat that
few other devices can lay claim to.

The second is the commercial quality that the toothbrush brings to our Davidson teams. Companies like SmithKline Beecham and Warner-Lambert
Consumer Healthcare (the distributors of Listerine) would love to shower a team with their money and adoring fans with their
dental hygiene products, something that our teams would love and make our breaths minty fresh.

In the end, if we changed our mascot from the overly used wildcat to the underrated toothbrush, not only would
we make a name for ourselves in the nation, but we would also be making a statement. We would put
an end to the wide-scale abuse of mutual mascot mishandling and let everyone know that we will not stand for
uncreative mascot choices. So, my fellow Toothbrushes, let us unite and hold our dental instruments up high, for it will
soon be a great day to be a Toothbrush.

TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1998

“Hey, Randy, what time is it?”

As one of the Co-Editors of The Davidsonian, I feel that it is my duty to explain myself concerning certain
matters. So whenever my train of thought seems to miss the station, I often find myself pondering the standard unanswerable
philosophical question of our world. Two words: khaki pants.

Now, I know a group of you will say that I should just throw on a pair of blue jeans
and be done with it, but unfortunately, I can’t. You see, I have a red-green color deficiency, often referred to
as colorblindness. However, while a number of people seem to think that I am jealous of my non-color-blind counterparts, I
can honestly say that I’m not.

There is no better way of introducing oneself than with the phrase, “I am a potential rapist. All men are
potential rapists.” I’m not going to try to prove that this statement is false; that would be impossible. Quotes that
involve, “Hey, Randy, what color is this?” seem to have the uncanny ability to always be true.

That would be where a statement like “all men are potential rapists” comes into use. We each have a story
to tell; we told it during orientation and we will tell it at future job interviews. Even now I somewhat
regret my decision to forego meeting future classmates for a test in my AP Calculus BC class.

In classrooms, each student shares his or her feelings or interpretations of a certain historical event, mathematical function, or literary
masterpiece. When other students leave that class, they have learned something new, something that was brought to them by one
of their peers, by one of their friends.

To the casual observer, it would seem that the options are a little one-sided. However, this event did not end
with the last turkey on a poppy seed bagel; no, it did not. Well into dinner, I noticed ravenous Davidsonians
take a moment from their scarf-fest to show their friends the now-famous knife and fork trick.

I’m not saying that I can’t drive; I’m just saying that the green looks white, and the red sometimes flashes
in and out. But I figure if everyone else is stopped, I might as well, too. Finally, khaki goes with
everything. However, isn’t it true that if you really want something to happen, anyway, you'll do whatever you can to
make it happen?

Let me leave you with this ending thought: There is nothing in the world of clothes as great as a
perfect crease in a pair of khaki pants. You won’t see that at a fraternity or an eating house.

Sah. k. Cpdarr

LETTERSTO THE EDITORS

Keep up the good work Davidsonian

To the Editors:

I would like to compliment you on a job well done this semester. Since you fired Michael Kruse, the paper
has really improved. Sarah, I know you are going to do a great job next semester. Keep up the good
work. Randy, I feel for you. I too am color-blind and love to wear my khaki pants (often without ever
washing them for weeks at a time). So just ignore those people who write in and complain about the paper.
It looks great. Oh, and feel free to edit this letter for grammar and spelling.

Sincerely,
Educated At Harvard

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Sports Editors
BRATTON HOLMES
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

News Editors
LIZ NEIHEISEL
MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE

Circulation Manager
MERRITT ABNEY

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Sports Layout Editor
WILLIAM MORETZ

Advertising Managers
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
ERIN McKINLEY

Photo Editor
DAVID JOHNSTON

Copy Editors
SALLIE McMURRAY
SCOTT REEDER
WHITNEY BLAKE
ANNA ERICKSSON
CINDY CLARK
LYNSAY MADLEY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Third Worst College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.ifyoureallythinkthisexists.com/youneedhelp.html

One copy per student. Please send all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, Davidson, NC 28035-2148 or Box 7188, Davidson, NC 28035-2149.
Third floor of the Union.

Words from a future Wildcat

To the Editors:

As the year draws to a close and exams approach, I would like to extend my congratulations to The Davidsonian.
You guys have done a wonderful job keeping the newspaper in its place as a high-quality publication. Of all the
schools I have visited this past year, only Davidson had a newspaper that I could truly appreciate and call glorious.
Randy, you are a god to me; you are a freshman with power. Sarah, you’re amazing; if you weren’t already
involved in a relationship, I’d try to win your heart. In the fall of this year, I applied to Davidson
and, thankfully, was accepted. Since the day I got that letter in the mail, I knew full well that I
was going to work on The Davidsonian one day. Hopefully, it will happen sometime next year. You can be sure
that I will try my best to do a good job and that I really will try hard. Thank you
for everything, especially your time in reading this letter.

Sincerely,
P. Ross Pective ‘02

Davidsonian lacks a lot more than just tact

To the Editors:

I am normally a very reserved type, so it is with great trepidation that I approach this article. However, my
mother always said honesty is the best policy, so here goes. To begin, The Davidsonian really sucks. It is the
most slack-ass, second-rate, my-90-year-old grandma-could-write-it-better-herself, you-call-yourself-a-newspaper, piece of birdcage paper-lining I’ve ever read. I’m sorry, I know that’s improperly punctuated.
The News section has been spiraling towards extinction this entire semester, second only, of course, to the Arts and Living
section, which frankly, has been dead for quite some time. Maybe if you actually covered some of the important events
on campus, rather than regurgitating what every single visiting speaker says, people would like you more. And hey, have your
writers ever heard of a thing called quotes? You’d be amazed at what they add to an article. There really
isn’t much to say about the A & L section, since it really doesn’t exist. And just because you have
absolutely no staff writers in that section is no excuse for Wes Goldsberry not to write the entire section himself
(like Mr. Holmes does with the Sports section). Maybe next year you all can invite some freshmen to join your
publication. Mind you, they should not be running the paper, like this year. The Opinions section has been especially lovely
this year with all the controversy. Perhaps you should establish a committee on campus to stir agitation and hard feelings
among students in order to continue the strong showing you’ve had this year. My favorite was the week that Randy
(er, Mr. Skattum) actually solicited Letters to the Editor in order to stir hard feelings. Now that’s dedication. I've been
highly impressed with the Sports section. Maybe because there wasn’t one in the first edition this semester, it appears to
have shown real improvement. Bratton Holmes appears to be the only editor capable of turning out an entire section himself.
Thus, I vote that we rename The Davidsonian “Sports and Some Other Stuff” (note the alliteration). This would do away
with all other sections, relieving their worries about staff writers, and awarding Bratton full reign of the paper. After all,
Sports is where it’s at. And now that you’ve gotten rid of that pesky Kruse...

Sincerely,
I. Jusskim Hedlynes

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail
any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich
Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise
adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.
