Baer speaks on Latin-American economic crisis
By Brian Cooke
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, the Dean Rusk Program and the Department of Economics sponsored Dr. Werner Baer’s lecture, entitled “A Comparative Perspective: The Latin-American Crisis of the ’80s vs. The Asian Crisis of the ’90s.” Dr. Baer is currently a professor of economics at the University of Illinois. He has been invited to speak at such universities as Harvard, Yale, and Vanderbilt. Dr. Baer is also the author of many books including, “The Brazilian Economy” and “Privatization in Latin-America.” An even finer achievement, the Brazilian government presented him with the Order of the Southern Cross — the highest honor awarded to a foreigner.

The purpose of Baer’s lecture was to give his audience of about 50 students and faculty members a general background of the Latin-American crisis and of the Asian crisis. Admitting to “generalizing like mad” due to the 30-minute time limit to speak, Baer flew through the two histories but received the full attention of the audience. More importantly, Baer presented “challenging hypotheses for (us) to challenge in the future.”

Baer described the Latin-American crisis as an economy with high rates of inflation, low savings, and big government. They closed their economies to attract foreign capital and created many incentives to attract foreign currency. Although this brought down the import coefficient and many years of growth followed, it was an inefficient system, stated Baer. Industries were substituted on mass scales, and exports were totally ignored. From the 1960s to mid-1970s, Latin-America attempted to correct this problem by diversifying exports. Baer noted that Brazil was one of the few countries successful with this. The quadrupling of oil prices in the ’70s led to debt-led growth, and as “interest rates of the world went through the roof,” Latin-America declared bankruptcy in the early 1980s. Baer remarked that this period of stagnation is commonly recognized as the “Lost Decade.” There was a decline in investment in Latin-America, and the country continued to overborrow. This led to hyperinflation in Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico. Severe stabilization programs were necessary to mollify the crisis. Latin-American countries were able to comb loans from financial programs across the world only on the condition that they adapted “Neoliberal” policies. These policies forced the government to retreat, cut privatization, and opened their economies. Now, most Latin-American countries have decreased inflation and stable economies.

Baer then introduced the Asian crisis as “much too complex” to explain in the remaining time. Until 1996, East Asian economies had high growth rates. These economies were tied to the dollar, and when the dollar began to float, trade deficits resulted. East Asian countries had to borrow a lot of money from banks with high interest rates. As Baer argued, “These economies were not what one assumed them to be.” Before the crisis, the Asian economic state was praised over the “wasteful Latin-Americans,” whose public utilities were in the hands of the state, had high unemployment, and whose state was practically omnipresent. East Asia, however, was believed to have a small state. This was false, because it was shown that the East Asian government actually did have their hands on the economy through private circles. It was also thought that the East Asian rate of investment (30 percent of GDP) was better than the “frugal” investment of Latin America. This was later argued against when the quality and productivity of those investments were questioned. For example, East Asia was no better off than Latin America concerning labor laws, because it is almost impossible to fire experienced workers. Baer cited this as one example of unproductivity. The image of East Asian economies faltered because their “legal system is inadequate,” Baer stated. Even in Japan, there is corruption and scandals. These economies are not really as open to foreign investment as once perceived. Last, it was believed that Asia had a more equitable income distribution than Latin America, but Baer felt that this should be reexamined. In East Asia, the economic power is in a few hands, so he felt that income could not be equally distributed.

Baer concluded his lecture by asking, “What are the great challenges in Latin-America?” He felt that although the obvious answer is to open themselves to foreign investment and privatizing, the solution lies in income distribution. The main question for East Asia was, “How do they open up their economies and get rid of the hidden hand of the government?” Challenging the audience to challenge him, Baer then answered an array of questions. Baer was forced to clarify some points and defend his arguments. Twice, he even modestly admitted ignorance.

Bond speaks to race concerns
Julian Bond from page 1

Bond extended the “second reconstruction” inspired by Dubois from the slaveocracy into tomorrow. Bond countered lingering doubt of the NAACP’s relevancy in the aftermath of President Johnson’s Great Society by pronouncing the “birth of a new century and the death of an old one.” The “new transcendent generation” faces a “cotton curtain” masked by names such as Proposition 209 and Affirmative Action and a continuing social stigma that stagnates the “movement for economic and political power” that is the next logical step for minorities in America. Bond called for a re-evaluation of history that saw beyond the figureheads and grainy black-and-white broadcast speeches from the capitol to the silent majority of supporters in Montgomery, Ala., and Greensboro, N.C., without whom legal barriers would not have been vaulted by black Americans. With this historical reappraisal, Bond hoped that Americans would recognize the “indictment of our times,” the economic shadow enshrouding black America. Citing an excess of statistics, Bond pitied the “colorblind America that never was” that has seen the reversal of the Great Society executed by “right wing locusts.” This reversal is evident, Bond claimed, in programs such as Affirmative Action, which has come under attack recently but which is a program vastly misunderstood by America. Despite a drop in employment of blacks from 75 percent to 57 percent in 30 years, Affirmative Action has created a strong black middle class that now comprises one-third of blacks in America. An ignorant America which perceived minority population at 71 percent and the “ancient faces of evil portrayed in Newt faces” construe Affirmative Action as a program which gives preferential treatment to Blacks in the workplace. Bond asserted that the program “attacks ancient white skin tradition” in the workplace rather than demeaning blacks.through preferential treatment. Affirmative Action seeks to restructure an “economy based on race division” which, as Bond claimed, was responsible for the increase of intraracial crime. Recent black hostility only masks the escalating social stigma that has pitted blacks against whites in a battle of interpretation. Since the Kerner Commission under Johnson’s administration acknowledged that white racism was the single most important cause for discrimination in all areas, social trends have classified whites as victims. Bond cited American opinion polls that demonstrated that minorities are perceived as less than human beings by Americans. These trends, evidenced recently by white arson on African American churches in the South, certainly jarred the minds of the strong community showing Wednesday night. A community member representing North Carolina Representative Mel Watt asked Bond where he stood on the recent demand from Congress that North Carolina redraw the controversial 12th District, claiming it favored black voters. Bond attested the need for such districts because of the discriminatory shadow that an increasingly hostile society has cast over the new transcendent generation. He stated simply that color elects color, sadly enough, and that districts are the only venue by which the 80 percent white domination of Congress can be alleviated. Bond ended by remembering his grandfather, who, in 1896, called for “greater efforts and grander victories.” After a standing ovation, Bond accepted questions, not personal speeches, from the audience. In the open discussion portion, issues that hit home at Davidson were brought before Bond. A strong student delegation representing Assistant Professor of History Barbara Ballard was present brandishing signs demanding the Board of Trustees to grant Ballard tenure as well as distributing petitions among the audience. A student stood to acknowledge Ballard and asked what, amidst all of Bond’s historical reevaluation, could a student do to prevent what was implied as discrimination such as seen with Ballard. Bond replied in a reserved tone that students must demand diversity in education from their universities. It was seemingly left to the students that Ballard represented the diversity which Bond demanded. Bond left much to the students, faculty, and community members present Wednesday night. He left them with the knowledge that the same problem that W.E.B. Du Bois christened his organization to fight, the color line, is still the problem facing society today. Bond pitied those who did not sense the lingering discrimination facing all minorities, and urged minds of action to subscribe to the silent majority hiding behind the speeches and rallies. Bond left his own “pearls of wisdom” behind when he left the stage, enough for all to share.

Press Release
College Relations

Davidson alumnus Charles Wright ‘57 has won the 1998 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. The Pulitzer Prize Foundation announced on Tuesday afternoon, Apr. 14, that it is honoring Wright “for a distinguished volume of original verse by an American author,” citing his most recent book, “Black Zodiac,” published by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The book earlier this year won the National Book Critics Circle Award. Wright responded to the honor by saying, “It’s not what one writes for, but if it happens, it’s terrific. When we're sailing around in our little boats on the ocean of language looking for landfalls, prizes like this are the desert islands.” Wright currently teaches creative writing as the Souder Family Professor of English and poet-in-residence at the University of Virginia. “Black Zodiac” is his most recent contribution to the literary world, following 11 other books of poems, six chapbooks, and four translations. Davidson College honored Wright with an honorary Doctor of Letters degree in Spring 1997, and he has received numerous major awards for his poetry. They include the National Book Award in poetry (for “Country Music: Selected Early Poems” in 1983), an Award of Merit Medal from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and, in 1993, the prestigious Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize honoring lifetime achievements in poetry. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1995. His collection “Chickamauga” was chosen to receive the 1996 Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize, an annual $10,000 award for the most outstanding book of poetry published in the United States in the previous year. “Poetry fulfills a spiritual need, the need to explain to myself what it is I would like to happen,” Wright said in the Fall 1993 edition of The Davidson Journal.

Davidson alumnus wins Pulitzer Prize in poetry
Charles Wright

The central themes of his poetry are language, landscape, the idea of God, the weight of the past, and the weight of the future. He says his inspiration to write comes from fear — “fear that I won’t get it said, that I won’t figure it out,” he said. When asked what he hopes to accomplish with poetry, he replied, “To be saved, but it won’t happen. Poetry won’t do it, but it’s the closest thing I have.” Wright was a history major at Davidson and won the Vereen Bell Prize for writing his senior year for a group of prose pieces entitled “Death and These Three.” He didn’t start writing poetry until two years after his Davidson graduation, when he began reading the poetry of Ezra Pound while serving in the Army Intelligence Service in Verona, Italy. After his Army tour, he studied at the University of Rome and attended the Iowa Writers’ Workshop. He has since taught as a visiting professor at the University of Iowa, Columbia University, Princeton University, and the Universita degli Studi in Florence, Italy. He joined the faculty at the University of Virginia in 1983. The Pulitzer Prizes are annual awards for achievements in American journalism, letters, drama, and music. The prizes have been awarded by Columbia University since 1917, on the recommendation of a Pulitzer Prize Board. Fourteen prizes are given in journalism. The prizes in letters are for fiction, history, poetry, biography or autobiography, and general nonfiction. There are also prizes for drama and music. A gold medal is awarded for public service in journalism, while the other categories are accompanied by a $5,000 award paid from Pulitzer endowments. The awards are named for 19th-century American newspaper publisher Joseph Pulitzer. He endowed what is now the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University and the Pulitzer Prizes.

Eco-Fact: Each year, Americans throw away enough wood and paper to heat five million homes for 200 years. (source: GDS, inc.)

REMEMBER, THURSDAY IS EARTH DAY!