Every year, the Residence Life Office delights in sending numerous students on this campus to a fate worse than organic
chemistry class. One night out of the year, we all line up like little ducks in Chambers, crossing our fingers
and looking at our lottery numbers with emotions that I don’t dare repeat within this text. Yes, Lottery Night, how
much fun. Thank you, sir; may I have another? But do you know that RLO will stick it to you
twice in one year? Yep, that’s right. Extra helping of abuse at table one, please! If RLO doesn’t get you
in the lottery system, they will later play a card that few students realize exists in that office’s powerful deck.
And, oh, do they have some winning cards.

Did you know that RLO must give permission to any student who wishes to remain on campus for graduation services?
Betcha didn’t know that one, did you? Technically, each student must leave the residence hall within 24 hours of finishing
his or her last final. If a student wishes to stay in the residence hall to attend graduation ceremonies, then
that poor soul must march down to RLO and actually request the authorization of the Office or face some fun
penalties. It’s not like getting that last room in Knox didn’t punish you enough, right? No kidding!

Now, then, I know that Davidson College tries to create this image of a community joined by the Honor Code
and strengthened by a small student body. Every tour guide learns to tell prospective students that the campus is like
a family, and everybody supports their fellow student. For the most part, the cliché does not miss the mark. I
usually go to concerts and plays to which a team of wild horses couldn’t drag me, simply to see a
friend’s 15 minutes of fame. Therefore, I cannot exactly understand the reasoning behind RLO’s policy. What’s the point of making
each student submit a detailed explanation of why he or she would like to stay after exams in order to
watch best friends and significant others finally complete the educational tour of duty represented by that little sheet of paper?
And not just any explanation will suffice for RLO! Unless a sibling is graduating or you have a job to
complete on this campus, you had better just pack those bags and leave your key on the dresser.

So people want to hang out for a few days after melting their brains over a finite math exam. So
they just want to say goodbye to a friend that may have totally changed their lives with friendship and inspiration
over the last four years. So graduation should be a “family event.” For $26,000 a year, I think we deserve
the right to stay in our rooms for a few days and attend the ceremonies. Get a hotel room for
a few days? Sleep on a friend’s floor? Yeah, right. Our minds don’t function until a few days after exams,
anyway, so why not stick around and rebuild all that gray matter we burned up finishing that last essay on
why hell is exothermic?

Let’s face the facts, kids. Judging from the way RLO treats the student body sometimes, I think maybe that office
doesn’t really want students on this campus in the first place. Maybe we should just throw in the towel and
turn this place into condominiums. I mean, the administration will probably kill the Court in a few years, and then
that land will be perfect for a new suburb of Charlotte. Hell, let’s sell out now and get rich! Welcome
to the Davidson Projects!

Of course, if we don’t want to give in to that monster, then we can fight now. We can all
march down to RLO and demand housing for graduation. If they deny us permission, then we get tents and cardboard
boxes and camp out. Fires in oil drums in front of Chambers! Sounds funny? Well, it’s probably the only way
half of us will get to see some of the most important people in our lives complete their college years.
So please, fight the RLO monster. Wouldn't you want your friends to have the right to see you escape this
place, without having to vie for a space on your couch?

---

In last week’s Davidsonian, Ansel Singer-Barnum blindly attacked a group that involves almost ten percent of the student body, without
stopping long enough to examine the facts. In his article about the Easter crosses, he referred to the fact that
the crosses are not sponsored by any organization. They are the property of a student—not involved with IVCF—who announced the
display at an IV meeting approximately an hour before the crosses were put up. Less than half of the 90
students on the list of sponsors of the display are involved with IVCF in any way. Those 90 students included
members of every campus Christian organization registered with the Chaplain’s office and represented every major Christian denomination at Davidson. I
fail to see how Ansel can use this display to characterize IVCF as “narcissistic,” “selfish,” and “commercial.”

The purpose of the crosses is not to “convert the atheist” or to spark a revival. They are a memorial
to an event which is, according to the church, the most important in human history. As the sign under the
display said, the crosses quietly remind Christians of the amazing love for us that Christ showed 2000 years ago, a
love that is very easy to forget in the craziness of life at Davidson. The flowers placed on the cross
after break represented and celebrated the new life Christians believe comes from the cross. As Ansel said, the crosses are
only potent to those who believe in them. Why can’t our community, which continually professes a desire for diversity, respect
the celebration of faith of some of its members?

A list of supporters' names was placed under the crosses to encourage discussion between those of different beliefs. Had Ansel
talked to one of these 90 people, he would have had a chance to share his opinion and hear a
different one. But he chose to make a stereotyped judgment and attack every member of one of the largest student
organizations based on something he’d heard. As a community of scholars, we hope to learn from each other. Different perspectives,
including Christianity, can be the basis for this learning, but only if we take advantage of the opportunity. If the
reaction...To display of this type was open dialogue, we would come away with a greater understanding of each other’s opinions
and sensitivities, and our community would be the better for it. Instead, we attack and retreat back into our cliques.
We shun each other because we can’t get past our stereotypes. Then we surround ourselves with those who share them.
How are we supposed to have a harmonious community if we aren’t willing to learn from each other? Non-Christian friends
have complained to me about the attitude of Christians on campus. They say the Christians are egocentric, do not respect
other religions, and primarily aim to convert rather than listen. If this perception exists, open dialogue between people of different
faiths is very difficult. When we spend all of our time defending our own beliefs, we can’t see the validity
of others. The responsibility to prove this perception untrue lies with Christians on campus. Sharing the love of God with
our campus does not necessarily involve trying to make a Christian out of every nonbeliever. We can show Christ's love
when we are willing to serve others, respecting them, listening to them, and learning from them. Non-Christians are not heathen
to be avoided, just as Christians are not a group of Jesus-freak wackos dedicated to self-promotion through “saving souls.” We
are all people whose core beliefs influence every action. There is no way for us to respect each other as
people if we can’t respect the validity of those core beliefs and the actions that come from them. Davidson will
be a harmonious community only when we are willing to set aside our stereotypes, humble ourselves, and listen. If this
is our ideal, then we can’t destroy it by blindly attacking each other. If something offends you, talk to someone
who supports it. Share what it is you find offensive, and listen to their reasons for doing it. Talk to
me! I'd love to hear your opinion on the crosses, IV, or anything else that occupies your wandering mind. If
we are willing to respect each other and learn a little, the closed-minded atmosphere of campus we all complain about
may disappear.

Davidson commits itself to a Christian tradition that recognizes God as the source of all truth, and finds in Jesus
Christ the revelation of that God, a God bound by no church or creed. The loyalty of the college thus
extends beyond the Christian community and necessarily includes an openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions. Davidson
is dedicated to the quest for truth and encourages teachers and faculty to explore the whole of reality, whether physical
or spiritual, with an unlimited employment of their intellectual powers. Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if
Davidson is to realize and maintain its particular vision of academic excellence.” As the faculty of this fine institution are
wont to say, ignorance is no excuse. The above passage is from page six of the Davidson College Handbook. Davidson
was founded by Presbyterians and has, in fact, prided itself from its foundation on a tradition of spirituality within an
intellectual community. In recent years, an increased effort has been made to attract a diverse population to this campus, and
Davidson’s Christian roots have been downplayed in this process. But the administration has never attempted to hide the fact that
Davidson is first and foremost a Christian college. Although the school embraces all religious beliefs, there is an understood respect
for the traditions that Davidson was founded upon and that each student agrees to abide by when enrolling. As we
move toward an increasingly secular society, the College continues to require a religion course as a graduation requirement. Why is
this? Many other schools were founded by religious groups. Harvard, for example, was formed as a school of divinity. Davidson
is unusual in its decision to uphold its Christian tradition.

Ansel Singer-Barnum implied in his article that IVCF overstepped boundaries by displaying crosses on campus for the days surrounding Easter.
I could argue that I find the rubber rafts Davidson Outdoors uses to advertise its rafting trips offensive because I
am forced to recall a traumatic experience as a five-year-old in a water park. The article also includes a reference
to “flaunting fanaticism.” I am a Christian. I even wear a bracelet with the acronym WWJD which represents the phrase
“What Would Jesus Do?” Does this make me a “fanatic,” flaunting my spiritual path? No, instead it is a personal
article I choose to wear that defines my faith and means something to me on a spiritual level. In my
opinion, a harmonious community promotes diversity while standing for truth, but to Ansel, in a harmonious community, “conflict is anticipated
and avoided before it emerges.” Hmm, maybe we could all live in little bubbles and walk around with rose-colored glasses
on. These methods logically make a lot of sense, don’t they? I don’t think so. College is about awakenings —
sometimes in powerful paradigm shifts, sometimes in pleasant revelations, and sometimes in painful jolts. The Davidson community’s toleration of beliefs
may be a painful jolt, but I believe expression and not suppression is a more productive and progressive solution. Perhaps
the crosses raised a few eyebrows. Fabulous. From a religious standpoint, we have many bridges to cross on our path
to heightened spiritual awareness on campus; the three crosses should be used as a beginning to bridge these differences because
Davidson is only as utopian as we make it.

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Crosses justified but misunderstood

To the Editors:

Having read last week’s article by Ansel Singer-Barnum entitled “IVCF crosses offensive,” I feel compelled to shed some light on
the subject. First, it needs to be known that InterVarsity Christian Fellowship had nothing to do with erecting the crosses.
Rather, the crosses were supported and raised by nearly one hundred Christian individuals in the Davidson community. The fact that
the crosses were accredited to IVCF exhibits that Christians on this campus cannot make a statement without being categorized into
a group. Second, we put the crosses in the heart of the campus because that is where the administration told
us to put them. Third, the crosses were not meant to be a “publicity stunt,” nor were they meant to
be an aggressive attempt to convert people to Christianity. Their only intention was to remind all of us why we
have Easter Break. I apologize if we offended anyone, but we feel the crosses are justified due to Davidson’s Presbyterian
heritage.

Thank you,
Brew Davis ‘01
