THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

Take two exams and call him in the morning
Dr. David Staton, Director of the Counseling Center

Recently, Morgan Downer of the Davidsonian sat down with Dr. David Staton, Director of the Counseling Center and Student Health Facility, to discuss midwinter blues in the Davidson community.

Davidsonian: Well, first off, how’s “business”?

Dr. David Staton: I can tell you that this year so far has been the busiest year the counseling center has ever had.

D: Is this particular time of year usually very busy, what with the winter weather and students returning from the holiday?

S: It varies from year to year. There are all kinds of variables, certain courses that are even available can put people under stress. But typically January has been, for the last few years, a fairly busy time, especially when the reality after college is especially pronounced at the end of the second semester.

D: So you have different problems for different times of the year?

S: We sure do. Freshmen, for instance, are more likely to be seen in the fall. They’ve got homesickness issues. They are stressed by exams because they’ve never had them before, so they don’t know exactly what they’re up against. Seniors are a bit more represented in the spring. They’re facing another stage in life, and they’re about to give up the status of being the upper-classman to being the “lowliest of the low” again on the next ladder. It’s a hard time for them.

D: So Freshmen and Seniors are represented the most?

S: Well, for the longest time there appeared to be a gradual increase of students coming to us up towards the senior year.

D: People would become more comfortable with it?

S: There were a number of things like that, yes. In general, I do think that probably upperclassmen actually get more out of their sessions than the younger students, though there are certainly lots of individual exceptions to that. The upperclassmen are getting more confident in knowing who they are. They have had three or four years to find out all of the stuff you find out in college about yourself.

D: How about male to female ratios?

S: There are a few trends this year. There has been a tendency toward increasing the number of men. When I started out it was about 28/72 those very first years, and now it’s all the way up to 38% men and 62% women interviews. That’s the interviews. It’s a little different if you look at the number of men versus the number of women because women do a few more interviews per person than men do.

D: Still I cannot help noticing that there are a lot more women overall than men.

S: That’s right. There are a number of reasons for that. People get in here and they say, “I’m not sure I should be here,” or, “I didn’t want to come,” and it’s usually because they say, “I like to handle things myself.” For guys that’s true more than for girls. Now, what they find out is that they’re still going to handle it themselves. It’s the same as taking a course. Students earn their grade but they couldn’t do it without a professor for that course or resources with which to learn the material. However, they still have to learn it. We don’t solve their problems, they figure it out for themselves. At first people come in with a sense that they’re helpless; we should fix things because they can’t handle their life. There is probably even a bigger stigma about that for guys than there is for girls. Females in general support each other more than guys do. I don’t think guys have fewer problems than girls, they just don’t use us. They’re more lone wolves, honestly.

D: How is the system working for students overall?

S: We do try to understand what is going on, what it is that their needs are. I will say to you that it is my impression that we must be doing something right in that we’re used as much as we are. Already so far this school year we have had 202 people come in. Last year we had about 250 people. That’s one person in six. That’s 16-17% of the student population. To me that’s a fairly large chunk of the population to come in at least once. And in a small community like Davidson, where everybody knows everybody’s business, we’ve been able to do it and to pass the confidentiality test. Everybody would know if we were breaching confidentiality here, and if we were poor providers everybody would know that.

D: Do the students coming in usually come back or do they just stop by just once?

S: The average, if you divide the number of hours per year, which is a thousand or so, by the number of students, 250, it comes out to be about four sessions per student per year. That is like what the numbers are for the rest of the industry. This is good because the number of sessions a person comes to is a double-edged sword. If every single person only came one time, I’d be concerned about our effectiveness. On the other hand, if every single person came ten times, I would think that they certainly can’t all be ten-session problems. What is the matter, are we developing dependency problems?

D: How does Davidson compare in the...counseling field with other schools?

S. We have more personnel. We have me, Dr. DeWitt Crosby, plus Nance Longworth two days per week, and then also Georgia Ringle, the health educator, is taking on some of the duties for alcohol education. I’m not saying we have better counselors than other schools our size, just more of them.

D. What changes would you make, if any?

S. I did a satisfaction survey about three years ago, and the only thing that was the least bit complained about was the waiting room; having to wait around other people. That was about it.

D. Does that tend to bother people, the waiting room situation?

S. Maybe a little bit, yes. I think that was the most mentioned problem.

D. Is there anything in general that you would like to say in closing to the readers of this article?

S. I do have something to say about the campus in general. I do have this concern relative to the Counseling Center. I’m an alumni of Davidson, and so much of it is the same as when I was here. The push for excellence, the drive to work so much, and so on, I think has something very good in it. We grow when we push ourselves. We learn when we do that. And we achieve. What I find at Davidson, though, is that sometimes we get things turned around, sort of like the tail wagging the dog. Excellence should be something that happens as we pursue; not the goal of our pursuit. But I think that sometimes around here it goes that way. There can be an over-concern about grades and G.P.A., and I realize the realities of trying to get into grad school have a lot to do with that. But I feel that people push the competitive side more than they need or is good for them. It leads people away some from the joy of learning. Students say that they don’t have the time to do the reading they want to do because of the reading they have to do. I’ve heard stories of people refusing to share notes with someone else that missed a class. To me that is a really sad thing to have happen. As a general statement, I see that there isn’t quite enough fun around here, and the fun that is had is that blow it out, get drunk fun that is the “work hard, play hard” thing. That seems to me to be a shame. One of the factors that comes out of all this is the idea that being competitive and excellent means that a person is a lone entity. So there is less of that sense of community that I think could be here if students weren’t competing with everybody all of the time about so much. I think we could help each other more. Perhaps that sounds like some kind of “bleeding-heart,” “everything could be wonderful” cause, but I’m saying, and I do understand the realities, that from my perspective, we tend to go too far in the wrong direction. There’s not enough mutual support. There’s not enough genuine fun, not enough time to run around and to be lost, and to not know. There is too much of the busyness. We don’t allow ourselves to be human enough around here, it seems to me.

Then relative to the counseling center, we try to help people get to where they’re more concerned about their ownership of their life, rather than depending on someone else’s assessment on how great they’re doing. There should be a balance to their life and it should feel like it’s theirs, not that they’re its. It belongs to them, not the other way around.

---

Transition to Service Council causes Reach Out to reorganize

By Carrie ARTHUR
Staff Writer

Last semester, in a referendum of the entire student body, eleven students voted eight to three for the creation of the Service Council. With the vote, the role of Reach Out, the former umbrella organization for community service on campus, changed. Now, the newly-elected officers of Reach Out are redefining the organization’s role. Instead of directing all facets of community service for the campus, Reach Out can now focus on its primary goal: direct community service. As President Emily Setina said, Reach Out can “focus on real volunteer work” because it can be “actually in the community serving” and less in charge of “overall” projects by the entire school.

The goals of Reach Out, “to promote awareness of the needs of others and to provide opportunities for service” as Vice President Britta Toleman said, remain the same. Now, Toleman said, “Reach Out is able to focus on individual programs.” They meet weekly with ongoing programs and “know the programs better” to give “mutual support.” Toleman said that Reach Out will turn its budget into the Service Council. She added that everything is changing and that they will “figure out how it works this year.” Although the changes during the interim may be difficult, Setina feels that it will be better: “I think that it’s a really good change. It makes a lot of sense.”

Because of the changes, the elections for Reach Out officers this year were, for the first time, not open to the entire campus. Setina explained that because Reach Out is no longer the “service representative campus-wide,” the president and other officers are now working more within Reach Out, not “over the whole school.” Toleman said that most of the people running for office were “already in Reach Out” and “unopposed.” The new Reach Out officers are: President Emily Setina, Vice President Britta Toleman, Treasurer Wajihah Muwwakkil, Secretary Kerry Brophy, Publicity Chair Whitney Frazier, and Member-at-Large Jill Williams.

After a retreat last weekend with the old executive officers, the new officers are prepared to make a smooth transition. At the retreat, Setina said that they “learned about their new roles—what worked and what didn’t” last year. “The old officers have been very helpful with the transition,” Setina said. Toleman feels that because of the retreat, the officers “know exactly what’s going on.”

Reach Out currently consists of approximately twenty service programs, each of which is headed by a service coordinator, but new programs may be added in the future. The service coordinators organize their programs and take full responsibility for them. The coordinators decide the expectations for their volunteers, the goals of the programs, and the use of their budget. They then present their “informed decision” to the officers at the first meeting of every semester. The coordinators must also attend monthly meetings and recruit volunteers at the volunteer fair. The officers then meet with the coordinators and give them support. Toleman said, “The officers are always there [to help].”

The Reach Out officers are currently interviewing people for positions as coordinators. Toleman said that “they are looking for people who want to be personal with volunteers, have definite goals, are consistent, and [will foster] ongoing communication between Reach Out and the volunteers.” Anyone who is interested should sign up in the Dean of Students’ office by Friday, February 13. Setina is “excited about seeing how next year will work out with the changes,” and she hopes that “people will get involved.”