Steve Shurina is entering his seventh season as a staff member of the Davidson Wildcats men’s basketball team, and fourth season as Associate Head Coach. Shurina graduated from St. John’s University in 1988 with a degree in Criminal Justice, and earned a master’s degree in physical education/sports management from Brooklyn College in 1992. Shurina captained his St. John’s University basketball team as a senior and was a member of the Redmen squad that advanced to the NCAA Final Four in 1985. Brooklyn College served as the starting point for Shurina’s coaching career. Between his time at St. John’s University and Brooklyn College, Shurina played professional basketball in the United States Basketball League, World Basketball League, and Continental Basketball Association.

On Thursday, November 5th, Davidsonian Sports Staff writer Stephen Cefalu spoke with Shurina about his past, present, and future.

DSS: Can you describe what it felt like to go to the Final Four while you were playing at St. John’s?

SHURINA: I went (to the Final Four) when I was a freshman and I don’t think I ever really appreciated it. Even though I didn’t play a lot, it was a lot of fun. I just assumed that we were going to go back every year, that it was that easy. Every year removed from that (first season), we got further and further away. We never came close to going back again. I wish I would’ve appreciated it more and taken it in more at that time. It means an awful lot to me now.

DSS: What was it like to play with Chris Mullin (at St. John’s)?

SHURINA: He was unbelievable, but as you began to play with him more and more you took it for granted. My sophomore year, I had to play the same position he played. I went back and watched films of old plays from the year before. I would watch, and being a year removed from playing with him, I was amazed at the things he was able to do. He was obviously a great shooter and had great hands, but the intangibles he brought to the table were incredible. He saw the floor like not too many people I’ve ever seen. He had a work ethic second to none.

DSS: How valuable was the experience of playing under Coach Lou Carnesecca (at St. John’s)?

SHURINA: He gave me a great base for my playing career as well as my coaching career. He was the traditional, fundamental-focused coach. He was a great personality and dealt remarkably well with the media and his players. I learned a lot from him in that respect.

DSS: After four years playing under Carnesecca at St. John’s, how much of a transition was it to play for George Karl while you were with the Albany Patroons in the CBA?

SHURINA: The order that it went in terms of playing for coaches couldn’t have been any better. George was a great innovator. I already had a great base with Coach Carnesecca, and George taught me a whole different way to look at the game. Both George and Coach Carnesecca were successful in their own right, but completely different. Coach Karl taught me that sometimes right was left, up was down, and big was small.

DSS: Can you recount your initial entry into coaching at Brooklyn College?

SHURINA: My first year (at Brooklyn College) I was the fourth assistant on the number 301 Division I team in the country out of 301 teams. I was a graduate assistant. I worked midnight to eight as a doorman in Manhattan. I’d leave at eight o’clock in the morning and drive to Brooklyn, go to class, handle my coaching responsibilities, attend practice, go back to class in the evening, then go back to work. For six months, I literally did not sleep. I’d be sitting at the desk in the building where I worked, just constantly knocking out. My second year I became a full-time paid assistant and finished up my master’s degree that year. (I also coached cross-country). I wore all hats a coach could wear. I did everything. I learned that if I could recruit for Brooklyn College, I could recruit anywhere.

DSS: What brought you to Davidson?

SHURINA: At the end of my second year at Brooklyn College, they did away with the entire athletic program. As they were dropping it, I was very fortunate to get a call from Coach McKillop asking me if I’d be interested in coming down (to Davidson). He flew me down to see the campus just as if I were a prospective student, then offered me the job.

DSS: Where did you first make the acquaintance of Coach McKillop?

SHURINA: When I was at St. Francis Prep, we used to scrimmage Long Island Lutheran, where Coach McKillop was coaching, and I got to know him that way. Freshman year (at St. John’s), my road roommate was Bill Wennington, who played for Coach McKillop at Long Island Lutheran. The next three years, my roommate was Marco Baldi, who also played for Coach McKillop in high school. Through him, I had contact with McKillop at various summer camps and clinics.

DSS: What stands out most in your mind about the teams you’ve coached at Davidson?

SHURINA: Their toughness, resiliency, versatility. It’s so challenging at Davidson because of the academic standards. We cannot go out and say these are the types of players we want to recruit, in terms of all slashers or shooters, and just throw them into our system. We have to recruit the best players we can who are the best kids and then mold our system around them. We’ve definitely changed through the years. Versatility has undoubtedly been the greatest challenge for us.

DSS: How would you describe the character of the 1998-99 Wildcat team?

SHURINA: What’s interesting is that they’re all players recruited by me, or while I’ve been here. That’s exciting. This year’s team has tremendous junior and senior leadership. It has the potential to be as good as any of the ones before it. How we fit the pieces together is gonna determine that.

DSS: What has it meant to you to coach alongside Bob McKillop?

SHURINA: I’ve learned an awful lot from him. His organizational skills are second to none. His motivation of the team is incredible. His preparation, whether it be for practices, games, or recruiting, is the best I’ve ever seen. (Being around him), you learn how to treat people, how to be a good coach, how to really care about the players. He cares about his team and his coaches just like they were a part of his family.

DSS: Do you have a favorite moment while coaching at Davidson?

SHURINA: My favorite moment was last year when we won the (Southern Conference) tournament.Before that moment, I tried to play it over in my mind a million times as to what exactly I was going to do, how I was going to react to what had happened. We’d been so close so many times before. That was our goal. It was a tremendous feeling of accomplishment and, in some ways, of relief. I can remember that my wife was the first one out after it all ended, and I gave her a big hug. There was so much joy and emotion. I stood up on one of the chairs and looked up to my parents, who’ve come to every conference tournament and been so influential, and just raised my hands up together saying, “Yeah. This is finally it.”

DSS: What do you define as the primary duties of your position?

SHURINA: My two biggest duties are overseeing all scouting, and overseeing all recruiting. I’ve been fortunate to have a lot of input in what we do. I am very respectful and appreciative of Coach McKillop for that.

DSS: How has recruiting changed over the course of your seven years at Davidson?

SHURINA: We can get in some doors we couldn’t get in before because of name recognition, but we haven’t changed that much in what we’re looking for. We look for the best players we can get. We judge hard work and toughness to be talents, just as much as shooting, running, and jumping. We put a lot of emphasis on the intangibles. We look for kids who are coachable and want to get better.

DSS: How many hours do you put in per week?

SHURINA: Coaching is a goal and result-oriented process. You want to get the best possible product out on the court. You don’t look at hours at all; you just get the job done. If it takes 150 hours in a week, then you do that. If it takes 60 hours, you do that. I love the job.

DSS: What has being Associate Head Coach of the Wildcats since 1995 meant to you?

SHURINA: I’m extremely proud of the title. It shows to my peers and people around the country that, yeah, I’ve done a pretty good job and Coach McKillop has rewarded me for that.

DSS: Over the years, you’ve had opportunities to move on, but you’ve stayed. Is there any sort of unwritten agreement that should an enticing enough offer come along, you could part ways with Davidson without hard feelings?

SHURINA: If you were to have told me when I came down here that I'd be here for seven years, I would’ve probably told you that you were crazy, because I didn’t know much about Davidson. The reason I’ve been here for seven years is because of the school, the people in the community, and the players I deal with daily. I absolutely love it. I’ve had offers (such as from Furman and Coastal Carolina) to move on to positions which people in our profession may define as a move up. But I have a family here. This is the ideal place to raise a family. I don’t think people outside Davidson realize what it’s all about. I love it.

Outside shot reigns supreme in Men’s exhibition

By Bro Kitt
Staff Writer

The men’s basketball season opened last Thursday in exhibition with a solid 86-78 victory over Team Vasda in Belk Arena. Led by shooting guard Davor Halbauer’s 21 points and Landry Kosmalski’s 19 points and 12 rebounds, Coach Bob McKillop’s club displayed its offensive balance in a challenging exhibition match-up. Vasda, a touring club composed of former college players, entered the game with victories over Coastal Carolina and the Big South conference preseason favorite UNC-Asheville.

“This is the best exhibition game the team has played since I have been here,” McKillop said. “Vasda played hard and was very athletic. All five on the court could shoot and handled the ball well and they all attacked the basket aggressively.” But the Wildcats never seemed over-matched and successfully controlled the game’s tempo with timely three-point baskets and second chance points. In fact, Kosmalski scored the opening points rebounding Ben Ebong’s missed jumper and banking in the short two-foot shot. Early in the half, Halbauer and Jeff Bergman successfully fired from long range answering the early season questions on the Cats’ outside effectiveness. Halbauer proved his marksmanship on a perfect first half, connecting on all three shots beyond the arc. McKillop never doubted Halbauer’s ability to shoot.

“Davor played like we thought he could,” McKillop said. “He hasn’t missed a beat from last spring. He proved himself as one of the better players on the roster. His hard work in the preseason showed itself tonight.” After Davidson extended the lead to 28-13 on a lay-up by Kosmalski, Vasda called a quick time-out to regroup with nine minutes remaining in the first half. Following the break, Vasda slowly chiseled away at Davidson’s lead over the next eight minutes. With one minute remaining in the first half, Vasda took the lead on Fred Watson’s dunk off a Davidson turnover. Ending the first half, Ben Ebong made two free throws and the Wildcats entered the locker room tied at 40 all.

Any questions on Ali Ton’s health and agility were answered after the intermission as he dished out eight assists over nine second half minutes. Despite the fantastic open court passes for easy lay-ups, Ton never shot the ball. But in Thursday night’s game Ton did more than anyone could anticipate after his threatening foot injury.

“Ali had 18 minutes coming off surgery,” McKillop said. “He played very aggressively and chose not to shoot. We were looking to get him game experience, trying to get him up to basketball speed.” After Vasda took a 69-68 lead with seven minutes left in the game, Davidson rattled off eight straight points on three-point baskets by Bergman and Kosmalski, and a lay-up by Emeka Erege. All three baskets resulted from a Ton assist. Vasda could never close this margin as Davidson seemed relaxed and showed patience in their offensive scheme. Over the last four minutes, Davidson continued to pass to the open man and knocked down their outside jumpers.

“The game gave our fans a glimpse of our outside/inside versatility and extreme depth at all five positions,” McKillop said. “Five guys made three-pointers and eight took at least one.” The outside shot spread the defense, allowing Kosmalski and company to establish position down low and control the boards. The Cats’ 11 offensive rebounds led to 18 second chance points.

“We have nine to ten players who can shoot from the outside,” McKillop said. “This will be valuable to the effectiveness of our interior game.”

Davidson Sports Information
@ Davor Halbauer