After the racial slur appeared on a campus advertisement, things were never quite the same. As one African American said
soon after, “The black students are tired of this stuff. We've been antagonized by our police, ostracized by our classmates,
patronized by our faculty, and utilized by our administration. Why should we keep trying to fit in here when it
is obvious no one wants us around?” This student’s frustration was shared by all black students, and as new prospective
blacks came to visit, the current group convinced them with sincerity and passion, “Don’t come here!” Five years later, the
last black student graduated from Davidson College. Where was the administration during this crisis? Oh, they were around, crying out
that “there really is diversity at Davidson, you just have to look around,” and, “We welcome minority students with open
arms.” They even changed the mission statement and put diversity in bold print, italicized. But they never even thought about
adding more courses about Minority History, Culture, Leadership, or Theory, nor did they try to hire vocal young minority professors.
Indeed, as African American enrollment decreased, the administration forced out the current black faculty saying, “You no longer have an
audience here.” As international students and other minorities followed black students to more welcoming educational settings, the other minority professors
were shown the same door. However, the Administration, to its great satisfaction, continued the longstanding trend of maintaining a high
minority employment by giving blacks more and more janitorial positions. Davidson, though, as a body of students and faculty, was
99.5 percent white, and increasingly male. Drummers, ethnic dance troupes, minority speakers, writers, and poets, Black History Month activities, and
the like were all replaced with country singers, Radical Republicans, and weekly Longneck/Redneck parties. The former BSC building was annexed
by a newly revitalized KA. No one seemed too concerned. Oh sure, there were a lot of changes at the
old College. Women found themselves silenced more and more, now that they had no other activist minorities with whom to
share a voice. Those who came now truly came to get that MRS degree. Classes about Africa, Asia, and Latin
America, or its descendants in the United States, were eliminated due to lack of interest. For the same type of
white students who packed classrooms before, thoughts of Civil Rights, Eastern philosophies, and Latin American politics never really crossed their
minds. There were other changes, too.

Get out your tiki doll

Hello again folks, I’m back and this time I’m mad. Actually I’m not, I’ve just always wanted to enter into
a room, have a director zoom in for a big head shot and have some gruff sounding announcer say, “Cort’s
back and he’s pissed off!” Ah well, I can dream can’t I? All right, I realize I am only a
little freshman peon (as if that hasn’t been debated in the Op-Ed section at great length), so therefore I should
naturally be confused by this whole course selection bonanza. However, does it seem right that you must have a post-graduate
degree in order to understand how to sign up for undergraduate courses? When I first got that tree (the day
before it was due), I stared at it like — well I don’t know what I stared at it like.
I would presume though that I looked like some big, confused, staring-type thingie. I can’t always come up with witty
analogies and similes off the top of my head, okay? Regardless, I did eventually figure out what the hell was
going on and I feel fairly confident in the fact that I managed to sign up for: underwater basket weaving
101 (counts for both my water credit and fine arts), biology of the Yeti, Advanced time wasting 326, and Math
for Poets 110 (since I probably failed it the first time through). So what I am going to do now
is give you a simple step-by-step guide to filling out your course selection sheets, which you can use next semester
to take the myriad of helpful courses that I am. By the way, with these courses, I’m on the fast
track to graduating in the year 2047.

1. Get out your Tiki doll and pray to your Tiki God like never before.
2. Take your first choice for a class and completely forget about ever getting it. It is my belief that
the people in the Registrar’s Office are clairvoyant, and they know what you want and know how not to give
it to you. (I have a friend who managed to get 13 in the draw for courses; he was happy
until I pointed out...the fact that, as a freshman, he’s actually number 1213.)

3. Now that you have forgotten about what you would like to take, choose a course and divide the three
numbers at the end (e.g., Rocks for Jocks 103) by Tina Yothers’ age and finally multiply by Oprah’s total weight
change over the last five years.

4. The number you receive should correspond in no way to any number on the tree sheet. You should then
write this course in the space designated for your I.D. number. Trust me, this is the double secret course selection
spot. The registrars love to try and decipher what you’re doing; it makes their job less stressful.

5. Now, take your second choice class and write it in boxes 1a through 32q. Don’t worry about if the
class is full; if you write it in enough, I’m sure they’ll feel compelled to squeeze you in.

6. Now, you should have exactly 376.42 spaces left to fill in on your tree. Your next step should be
to choose four courses at random, cut them out of the course catalogue, and paste them onto the tree in
any way you see fit. Use crayons, too; the registrars love crayons!

7. Finally, crumple it all up into a small ball and throw it directly at the head of the woman
in the office. She used to be a catcher on her college softball team and always appreciates a quick game
of catch.

Well, that’s all from me for this week. Take it easy and I'll see y’all ‘round.

whose membership had tripled. And in a move to invoke a sense of Southern pride and honor, the Administration decided
to fly the good ol’ Stars and Bars above (not below) the Stars and Stripes in front of Chambers. But
all in all, no one minded. The new president, when asked, said, “I think it’s great that Davidson is returning
to its roots as a Southern Presbyterian school. All those years we tried so hard to become diverse, we lost
our sense of tradition and the ideal of teaching our students values to go along with their knowledge.” When alumni
returned for Homecoming, they applauded the new Southern Life Center and with heartfelt passion sang “Dixie” before the Wildcat football
team was trounced again. Everyone laughed when a male member of the Homecoming Court introduced his four dates as “well-inspected
specimens.” The Black student at Davidson was a long-forgotten nightmare in a new Southern dreamland.

In an age when the country eliminated affirmative action because it gave blacks an upper hand in the job market,
even when in reality the largest beneficiary was the white woman; when many schools abolished their minority admissions guidelines to
allow in more legacies and rich white students; when across the South one could hear, distinctly audible underneath the empty
rhetoric about diversity, the shouts of “Heritage not hate,” Davidson’s transformation was the rule rather than the exception. It seemed
that the United States was beginning to say more and more what it had felt all along — “Blacks not
welcome here.”

On Thursday, the Union Speakers Committee and the Black Student Coalition will present an evening with Derrick Bell, beginning at
7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Bell (seen the bells around campus?) is one of the leading voices in the national
debates around race. He has tried over 100 civil rights cases as a lawyer, taught at several universities including Harvard,
and written several books. His speech will be entitled “Racial Liberation Day.” As he has been one of the most
influential voices in my education, I would like to personally invite each person who reads this article — student, faculty,
staff, alumnus/a, or concerned reader — to join me Thursday night.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

News Editors
ERIN McKINLEY
CARRIE ARTHUR

Op-Ed Editor
SCOTT REEDER

Arts & Living Editors
MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE
ALISON KALETT

Sports Editors
EUGENIA LEATH
MIKE ANDERSON

Business Manager
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Circulation Manager
PETER CLARK

Advertising Managers
JOHN DUNWOODY
DAVID JOHNSTON

News Layout Editors
EVAN McCORMICK
WHITNEY BLAKE

Op-Ed Layout Editors
CINDY CLARK
BEN COVINGTON

Arts & Living Layout Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY
CATHERINE CORNWELL

Sports Layout Editors
CADER HOWARD
STEPHANIE ERICKSON

Photo Editor
KAREN SWEENEY

Ad Designers
HOLLY MARKARIAN
AILEEN WATERS
JUSTIN MONROE
BEN COVINGTON
JAY SCANLAN

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
