This is the last issue of The Davidsonian (er, whatever this thing is called), and so I’ve decided to state my opinion on every topic that’s been discussed this semester — and last. First of all, it is so much better to live on a single-sex hall. Just ask the guys in Little. Now, granted, that’s not at all what my original article said. I was, in fact, supporting the idea that single-sex living is equally as rewarding as coed, not that it’s better. However, that whole episode did, in fact, take place before we were all in freshman Comp and Literature, so we’ll forgive those who failed to accurately express themselves on paper (me), and those who consequently misinterpreted the intentions of the writer.

Next, the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility are wonderful things — in all seriousness. And, hey, the fact that my own laptop was stolen from the student Union, in the morning, on a Saturday, when the doors to the room were shut, means absolutely nothing to me. Really.

Everyone at Davidson does too much. We are all too busy to enjoy the experiences and opportunities provided us on this campus. My solution: quit doing so much.

Women’s issues: women at Davidson should have the same opportunities that men do. We should dissolve all the eating houses, establish seven national sororities, run through the fraternities completely naked and drunk — strutting mind you, not just walking. We should kidnap our “sisters” and take them to random parts of the country, naked, of course. Mind you, all of this must be kept silent. We wouldn’t want the boys to find out and try to copy us.

As a serious aside — I’m glad they decided to add another eating house. When all of the members can’t fit inside a house for a house meeting, that’s a signal to take action — and I don’t mean lose weight. Also, I’m especially thankful that President Vagt chose to maintain the status quo on campus by rejecting the addition of sororities to Patterson Court. First of all, when you bring change to campus, things are, well, different, and no one wants that. After all, we made that mistake once by allowing women onto campus. Second, sororities on campus would cause the women at Davidson to dress and act alike, become flirts and floozies, worry about their weight and hair... We wouldn’t want that, now, would we?

The Alcohol Policy, which is currently under revision by members of the Patterson Court Council, has its flaws, undoubtedly. Having thoroughly debated this topic within the confines of my own consciousness, I’ve come to a solution. We are a Southern college, so we are completely within our right to secede from the Union, revert the drinking age back to 18 (or, hey, abolish the drinking age completely — European style), and introduce kegs to campus again. No ID, no wristband, no Risk Manager, no problem. That’ll bring in prospectives.

At this point, I will apologize for my article on the five types of males on campus. I was so wrong. There are more problems with Davidson men than I have room to explore, so to all the men I left out — don’t worry, you’re screw-ups, too.

On a different note, public displays of affection are a wonderful thing. Next time you and your “significant other” start to head back to the room for a late-night rendezvous, stop and drop to the ground wherever you are. Also a great way to attract those prospectives.

Swimmers and football players: You are loved. Every time I meet a swimmer, especially male — the really good-looking ones who I’m making eyes at — they hear my name, look at me and smile, and say in a sexy voice, “Your mom is so cool.” Yeah, that hurt. And on that note, I think that all Davidson athletes, including varsity, junior varsity, club, and intramural, rock just ‘cause they’re cool. All of you.

Randy Skattum is a terribly misunderstood individual, and all those who attacked him personally offended me. Having spent considerable time with Randy in some rather intimate settings (oh, yeah, that Davidsonian office is just a love den), I know that Randy was really reaching out to his peers, trying to connect with the Davidson community. Personally, Randy, there really is no exciting difference between red and green, and khaki pants are, well, just groovy.

Focusing on my more famous articles, I'd like to point out that it’s a good thing just one person can make such a big difference, since nobody does anything around here anyway. You are one big apathetic campus, and to use a favorite phrase of the editorial staff, especially on the front page, “You suck.”

On that note, I'd like to say thanks to Britton Taylor, whose opinions articles will be forever treasured. Your articles, Britton, saved our Op-Ed section. Not just because you can whine for more than 1000 words, but because people always respond with equal length. Personally, I disagree with our Feb. 24 edition that states “Britton Taylor sucks.”

Coed intramural teams are a marvelous creation. All freshmen should be required to involve themselves in this study of “how boys and girls get along.” We could add it to our already amazing physical education curriculum.

For all of you who have made it to the end of this article, I applaud you. I’m sorry I was unable to make fun of every person on campus; there just isn’t space (yeah, right, not enough space in one of our issues). For you know as well as I do that many will not make it to the end of this article, much like a personal favorite of mine: “There’s a Monster at the End of this Book” — it’s just too scary to finish. So for all of you who don’t read clear to the end, and who send me some scathing e-mail or write a letter to the newspaper (hah! It won’t be printed ‘til next year), well, too bad. For the rest of you, thank you for realizing that this is a parody issue of The Davidsonian and that this article honestly does not reflect my personal stance on these issues. To you, I say, “Thanks, and enjoy.”

Eww, who farted?

Thursday night was a big study night for me. An econ test haunted my thoughts for the entire evening, and I knew that I would have trouble staying awake to study as much as I wanted to. So I took drastic measures: Me and my male chauvinist self chose the prettiest girl in my class to study with. Okay, she wasn’t just pretty, she was damn beautiful. Trust me on this one. Smooth, shaven legs are better than caffeine. And if legs are equitable to caffeine, a tight, long-sleeved top has the same effect as eating three bowls of that quadruple chocolate ice cream.cream they serve at Commons. So wide-eyed and awake, I sat on the third floor of Chambers quizzing my study buddy on the economic details of aggregate supply and demand. And then the strangest thing happened. My nose sensed a faint smell. I knew exactly what it was. Nahhhhh — it couldn’t be. It couldn’t be true. But then the odor got stronger and stronger. So strong, in fact, that I found myself talking with my hand over my nose and mouth to avoid any unnecessary inhaling. She had definitely farted. But wait a second. Girls don’t fart; it just doesn’t happen. It’s like your parents and sex — they just don’t do it. So I asked, “Hey, you farted, didn’t you?” “No, silly, I didn’t,” she laughed half-heartedly and added before continuing her reading, “Oh, also— fart is so derogatory. I always say ‘fanny burp.’” Fanny burp, she said. Well, I guess it makes sense, even though it sounds kind of funny. ‘Cause I guess she likes to call it her fanny, and when it “burps,” well, you know. Ha. Fanny burp. Funny.

Anyway, since my study friend did not commit the crime, and I knew I hadn’t, either, for I had avoided the Mexican chimichangas the cafeteria served for dinner that night, I searched around for potential fanny perpetrators. I searched high and low, but to no avail, for the only potential gaseous organisms that sat in the room were myself, the accused, and the god-awful, nose-wrenching stench. I checked for small animals, even larger insects. Which got me thinking. Do flies fart? Maybe that little buzzing sound we hear isn’t their wings, but rather thousands and thousands of “milifarts.” Hey, it makes sense. I mean, how many times do you see a whole bunch of flies buzzing around together? You don’t, because their noses can detect those milifarts, so they travel alone. You always see that one guy who flies around and farts in your face. Yup, little fly farts.

Okay, back to our story. Our room sat animal-less, fly-less, and with only one potential “sinner” in the room. I sat there, reading my notes, and attempted to continue my studying with the lingering essence of feces still in the air. Out of the corner of my eye, I noticed my beautiful study buddy lean slightly to her right and grab her left knee as she crossed it over her other leg (not that I was looking at her legs out of the corner of my eye, but...). At the same time, she coughed softly and continued with her reading. The smell circled again. She had farted anew. Maybe it was silent, or maybe the noise was covered by her small cough. Either way, she had farted, twice now, without admitting it. A cardinal sin in the obscure rules of farting etiquette. I contemplated whether I should inform her. I didn’t know what the proper law-enforcement codes were. It was when she broke into a terrible fit of coughing, and above that fit of coughing that I heard the loud, “Fillbbbbbtttttttt!!!” of her butt cheeks flapping together that I knew it was time. She had farted so loud that it sounded like someone had raised her rear end to the top of the flagpole outside Chambers and just let the wind blow through them, making loud, slapping noises. I then thought it my duty to inform her of these rules she knew nothing about. “You farted, didn’t you?” “No,” she said innocently, and continued reading.

So at first this was pretty humorous, but now I came to thinking. And I wondered what would happen if I were to sin as she had. So I sinned. And she squirmed, “Ewwwwwwwwwwwwww, gross.” And I left, for an unadmitting farter has issues that they must resolve themselves. They can’t stay in denial. As much as I wanted to help her along in her time of need, I had really left a nasty egg, and didn’t want to stick around for it to mature.

Now, I like nature as much as everyone else, but this national arboretum thing is getting out of hand. Trees are being put before the students. Last week, in the dark of night, Commons employees were seen feeding “leftovers” to a poplar on the outskirts of campus. Now, the mere fact that food is being given to the trees should be disturbing enough. But, moreover, these “leftovers” consisted of choice filets, delicately seasoned crab cakes (do not read Krappy cakes), and a fine bottle of wine. This poplar was being served on silver platters and with crystal goblets. If this is what Davidson is doing for the poplars, who knows what kind of lucrative deal the National Arborwhatium? Little fellow. Needless to say, it was traumatic. Can only be characterized as a squish and an ooze. I didn’t look down to see what it was. I let nature’s scouring power, dirt, take care of the...

When I got back to my hall, I told a buddy about what I had done, at which point he informed me of the dangers of hookworms. I don’t know bugs, parasites, or infestations, but these little fellows who get in your foot sounded bad. When I asked how one finds these truant worms, he said, “You can’t.” When I asked him how you got rid of them, he said, “You don’t.” I am still not sure whether he was kidding or not. So forgive me if I adopt the attitude, at least temporarily, that nature is out to get me — out to get all of us, really.

This statement brings me to the crux of my plan. Instead of a new Union, what Davidson College really needs are massive quantities of the best defoliants that money can buy. I’m not talking about a big barrel of Round-Up here. I want Agent Orange sprayed from the air. The Davidson I envision is barren, not a growing thing in sight. There would be a lot of sand, but that could be raked and kept very nice. Nothing gross that wants to bite or sting or poop on you lives in the desert. The biology department...

They have this attitude about them that says, “I’m a tree. The College cares more about me than about you. Just to prove it, I’m going to drop something gross on you.” I think they are in league with the grass on this getting-something-gross-on-the-students plan. I was brave the other day, and at the urging of a good friend, tried walking across Chambers Lawn in my bare feet. For the most part it was a positive experience, but near the end I felt something on the ball of my right foot that assured me of this. They kept laughing behind their hands, though, and whispering about something called a Giant Snake of Death. Probably maniacal ravings. Besides, I can already hear the planes beginning their bombing run.

APATHY IS OKAY. We don’t need your stinkin’ writing anyway.