THE DAVIDSONIAN

JANUARY 20, 1998

Can this really be “As Good as it Gets”?

By Ed Pace
Staff Writer

Jack Nicholson asks this open question to those in the waiting room of his psychiatrist and thus explains the movie.
Is the way your life is right now really as good as it gets? I think we’ve all been told
that these are supposed to be the best years of our lives. If that’s true, then why go on? “As
Good As It Gets” gives a sense of why and that it’s up to us when we’ve peaked.

The movie opens strongly with Melvin Udall harassing everyone he can with all those things that are politically incorrect to
say and keeps us laughing while he does it. This movie keeps its pace and the laughs moving along throughout
the film. This is not the formulaic love story we’ve come to know and love from Hollywood, but rather a
quirky deeper love story that also questions our own roles in life.

James Brooks’ (who co-wrote and directed the film) prime invention here is Melvin Udall (Jack Nicholson). A hilarious misanthrope, Melvin
is such a versatile bigot that he gets in lots of mileage without even leaving home. There’s just something about
Nicholson that makes you want to grin. He’s the guy who knows the angles. Melvin Udall is a rich romance
novelist whose relentless irascibility is only partly attributable to an obsessive-compulsive disorder. He’s ground out 62 romance novels for women.
When a fan asks him how he writes the female characters so convincingly, he replies, “I think of a man.
And I take away reason and accountability.”

The other half of this love story is Helen Hunt. Hunt is a single mom who waitresses at the Manhattan
eatery where Nicholson chows down daily. Carol Connelly (Helen Hunt) worries about the health of her asthmatic young son while
toleratingbeat monologue. But then I realized that the poem proper had ended, and again, I was expecting something that wasn’t
there. One of the first poems he read, “Lightning Bug,” was an effort of 15 years, but for me it
captured only an instant of the near-endless wonder I recalled from my own childhood. Sitting on my porch at the
end of a summer day, the tiny lights would emerge from the inky depths of the backyard jungle of shrubbery.
It was as if someone had poured them into my yard and stirred the air. Chasing them was fruitless, but
if I could restrain myself to stillness long enough, one might light upon my outstretched hand for a moment. Some
of this was to be found in Mr. Morgan’s poem, and so I was reassured that there was a possibility
I might be intrigued by more of his work. Unfortunately, his writing is rooted so deeply in his own past
that even if it only serves as a context for his message, it obscures the necessary connection between his mind
and mine. As much as I wanted to be interested, I couldn’t find the strand of meaning to hold on
to. The language he uses is intricate and his poems are well-crafted, but they paint a picture that is flat
for me. I have not lived his life, and thus I do not have the associations that make his work
breathe. Perhaps I did not try hard enough, but I found nothing remarkable about his recollection of his father mowing
the lawn. Admittedly, I felt I could see him quite clearly cutting the grass, but it was not that different
from my own memories of attempted horticultural genocide. Poetry shouldn’t necessarily be about novelty, but it can be about expanding
one’s mind, and I found this poetry fell short in this regard. So, while there is a great deal I
think one could learn about how to write good poetry - or even fiction - from Morgan, I was a
bit disappointed by his reading. I do hope that he comes back, especially since I think if I could hear
more of his stories, his work might begin to take on the life it was meant to have.

Lancaster’s: make ‘em
By Wesley H. Goolsby
Arts & Living Editor

For restless Davidson students, the place to turn for food, fun and plain raw excitement has and remains obvious: Mooresville,
N.C., the Reno of the South. Where else can you find lemon twists at Tastee-Freez, “locals only” legend Robert’s Fish
Fry, and the thrill of catching a Friday night movie? Toss a whimsical late-night excursion to the Teeter into the
fray, and it’s tough for comparable Hoovervilles like Mooresville to compete. But if Mooresville is the Stock Car Capital of
the World, then Lancaster’s Bar-B-Que must be the capitol building. We should not pretend that this monumental eating establishment, which
sets Mooresville apart from the competition, is some Davidson student secret. All of its neon and adornments are legendary. The
building is adorned with the interior hoods from extinct NASCAR vehicles, many of them signed by the drivers themselves. The
floor is a classic black and white checkered tile pattern. After several minutes of gazing and meandering, the average customer
achieves an epiphany: “Hey, it’s a NASCAR theme.” Four televisions in each of the upper four corners of the restaurant
continuously broadcast current or old races. Lancaster’s, in all menus, congratulates its frequent visitors on their discerning taste, good looks,
charming personality, and appreciation for the finer things in life. Although the appetizers are all good clean fun, all customers
- depending upon the generosity of the waitstaff and the policy of the moment - receive complimentary hush puppies in
baskets covered with old beat-up fenders. Lancaster’s is a great place to impress guests, especially from west of the Mississippi,
many of whom have never seen or tasted authentic Southern Bar-B-Que.

On the Scene at Davidson College

Coffeehouse. Eats & Treats. 8:15 a.m.-11:30 p.m. in 900 Room.
Free Play Basketball. Just do it. All week long. 1:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
Jumpin’ Java. Free Triscuits. 7:30 p.m. at the Outpost.
21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Senior Art Major Exhibition. Senior art on display. 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. in the VAC.
Dr. David Orr. Environmentalist speaks. 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Coffeehouse. A good wholesome breakfast. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Dr. Wayne Pawlowski. For more information call Georgia Ringle. 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Friday Afternoon Club. The FAC is back—from vacation. 4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Men’s Basketball. This time against the Catamounts of Western Carolina: let the mauling begin. 7:30 p.m. in Belk Arena.
Jumpin’ Java. Caffeine. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Do stuff. 3:00 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.
Nutrition Class. “It's my wings.” 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Meditation Class. Get down with your serene self. 9:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. in the Home Room.
William Kanengiser Recital. Classical guitarist jams. 8:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
“Blue.” It’s not just a primary color anymore. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Men’s Basketball. The Cats take on the Minutemen from Massachusetts. 7:30 p.m. in Belk Arena.
“White.” All the colors in the spectrum—in one. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Elizabeth Newman Exhibit. Enhance your art awareness. All week long. 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. in the VAC.
“Red.” Get it now? Blue, white, red. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
49 Reasons. Come up with a reason to see them. 10:00 p.m.-12:00 a.m. in the Outpost. In concert.
College Bowl Tourney. Strain your brain. 4:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. in Phi & Eu Halls (Upstairs).
Counselor-Mentor Info Session. Counsel or ment. 7:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Jumpin’ Java. More than a pile of dirty mugs. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
