THE DAVIDSONIAN

My father always tells me. Of course, he also tells me that the Cleveland Indians will win the World Series this year. He said that last year, too. Last Wednesday night, at a weekly session of the Emerging Leaders Program, 25 freshmen discussed this topic (the former, not the latter). More specifically, they discussed diversity. This article, however, is not about diversity. It’s about a dream, a dream for Davidson.

Wednesday’s session was marked by great discussion. Discussion which was free and open and untainted. I sensed that it wasn’t exactly what Dean Jeffries had in mind when he planned the evening in his agenda, but even he recognized the importance of the conversation and helped facilitate it. The discussion spawned from a question regarding Charlie Shaw’s article in last week’s Davidsonian. Since Charlie is a participant in the program, a dialogue ensued, and in the 90 minutes which followed, a whole spectrum of diversity-related issues were covered. The breadth of conversation reflected the breadth of nationalities, ethnicities, and personalities of the participants. We talked about race, ignorance, history, education, loyalties, prejudice. The list is endless.

Several key points arose: If minority students on this campus are unable to overcome and accept other students’ differences, they will not survive at Davidson. And if, in life, any individual is unable to accept the differences of those around him/her, his/her life will be dictated by the “un” — unhappy, unsuccessful, unfulfilled, unsatisfied. While it is apparently considered acceptable for members of the majority to coalesce, it is considered altogether unacceptable for members of the minority to join together to, for example, eat lunch. These were the problems. It is easy to point out the problem, but as Charlie told us on Wednesday, too many people point out the problem without offering a solution. Feel like you’ve read this article before?

So we offered some solutions. Someone has to take a step forward, to take a chance. But it’s easier for two people to take two small steps towards the edge of a river than for one person to jump headfirst. Discussion, like that held at our session, is productive only when both groups begin the conversation with the purpose of cooperating. Discussion, in and of itself, is merely entertaining. Cooperation is productive. Most of all, no progress can occur unless at least one person believes in his/her heart and soul that he/she can make a difference, any level of difference.

There’s the story of the young boy who collects starfish washed ashore and returns them to the ocean. When an older man asks what difference the boy is making, watching the starfish return with each wave of the tide, he replies, “I’m making a difference to this one” and throws a starfish back in the water. Just one person can make a difference, no matter how small. Dean Jeffries read a poem at the end of the session about Rosa Parks called “I am only one person.” Assuming that the reader public is familiar with the story of Rosa Parks, I will provide the text of the last stanza only: “One woman said one word and 17,000 people walked.” Just one person can make a difference, and it can be huge.

There was another important point made at this session. A large part of our belief system is established at a young age, when we do not think to question media, press, education. For example, try learning about the Civil War first in the North and then the South. You’d swear there were two different wars. I learned it in Illinois and even in Virginia as “The War Between the States” or “The War of Southern Insurrection” and in Charleston, S.C., as another war, usually called the Civil War (Southern boys fight more civilly than those damned Yankees, apparently), in which the South was unfairly victimized for their opinion, which was and still is correct. Obviously, this theory applies in other situations where our opinions are formed based on prejudiced information. What we perceive to be right is what we believe is reality.

Quickly to the larger point. If my father’s words were true — if perception is reality — we must change our perceptions in order to change reality. Using the subject of diversity and tolerance, for example, we must change our perceptions of each other, of ourselves, and of the college, in order to change the reality of minority life on Davidson campus. This method, however, far exceeds the realms of diversity. This altered perspective can apply to Davidson, and society, in many respects.

On Wednesday, Mar. 11, at 8:30 p.m., the second open forum regarding the strategic planning process for the College was held at Vail Commons. I attended. In all, between 150 and 200 people attended, some shuffling in and out as time allowed. Nearly half of these individuals, if not more, were faculty and staff members. President Vagt’s question for the night was this: “What is your dream for Davidson? Where will your college, your department, your program, your organization, be in five years, and how can you facilitate development?” The discussion was, again, as varied as the individuals present — perhaps a Davidson College trademark. Everyone who spoke had one thing in common — they were fervent and animated in what they had to say, and they believed that their words could make a difference. Otherwise, what need is there to talk?

I honestly believe that the parties entering into discussion that evening were and are ready to cooperate. President Vagt strikes me as a man who is ready and willing to facilitate positive change and growth. The students’ and faculty’s attitude was one of optimism. They attended to voice their opinion and search for others who shared their dream. Call me naive — you’re probably right — but I believe in my heart that I, just one part of 1600 whole, will make a difference on this campus, no matter how big or small. I already know in my head what I perceive as the reality of Davidson. I can also perceive the way I’d like it to be.

But my father has another saying. “Liz,” he says, “your sphere of concern is much greater than your sphere of influence. You worry and concern yourself with more things than you can change on your own.” And he’s right. I can’t do it all myself, much as I may try. So here I am asking for help — not something I like to do. I am asking that the students of this campus raise their voices and vocalize their dream for Davidson, be it outlandish or downright simple. Speak as fervently about the future of your college, about issues that will affect every student, as you did about the sorority issue. Perceive the reality you want to see, and then go after it. Speak up. Don’t tell me that.Davidson is perfect. The day a school stops growing and changing is the day it dies as a tool for educating. Where would I be today if someone had not seen it fit for women to attend this institution? Don’t tell me that Davidson is perfect. We all complain far too much for that to be true. Let’s identify what is great about this college, draw from those strengths, and work to address its weaknesses. I know from the past two weeks that students at this college support one another, at least most of the time. If you look hard enough, you will find someone to come to your aid. You are only one person—unless you attend Davidson College. Then, you are a force of the future.

Architecture. It is a subject that has been on my mind of late. How are things constructed? How do elements balance and come together? Where are weaknesses in the foundation? How does one alleviate the unavoidable predicaments, built by others before one ever became involved? How does one build a Union? Last week I, with others on the New Union Planning Committee, talked about what we envision the next College Union to be in form and feel. The question remains whether we can create an intangible feeling out of bricks and drywall. Although the rough materials alone cannot make this new center the heart and living room of the campus, we feel our design can at least facilitate the sense we are after.

Some question why we are building this new structure, and indeed, we question ourselves, and we have been for over the past decade. We use our current building well, fill it till it is spilling over with events and student organizations. But William Brown, the Director of the College Union, President Vagt, and others have expressed the desire to go further with the Union. And when it comes down to it, practically speaking, our current Union does not give us enough options for locations in which to schedule things. An example of this is last week’s Take Back the Night, an event at which many people could not be admitted because we needed to adhere to the fire code in the 900 Room. It is a real regret of the Union Board Women’s Issues committee that we had to refuse admission to anyone.

Beyond physical incapacities of our current Union, the new structure is needed to house the large ideas borne from the mind of C. Shaw Smith years ago. We need a place that is more comfortable, fun, engaging, and serendipitous. Serendipity—a chance encounter with a professor, a laugh with a staff member—perhaps that is what would make our lives at this school more full. A place where all people bump into each other, stop, sit, hang out, learn things, that is what our new building can be. We must construct a way of life for a community as reliant on the fortunate run-in as the scheduled meeting.

The New Union Planning committee alone cannot become the architects of campus life. We thrive on the help of the rest of this community. Perhaps you cannot make the next open forum with the architects in April, but your ideas are vital to us. Is the current location of Johnston Gym the most appropriate for the new Union? Do we need a post office? Do we need a theater? What should be done about the bookstore and the cafe? In order to build the new Union on a solid foundation, the whole community must take authorship of its blueprints. Soon there will be a Union listserve, as well as other opportunities to meet with the architects. I encourage comments and questions from everyone and anyone on this matter. Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS @

Proposed revision for Honor Code

To the Davidson Student Body:

I am writing on behalf of an Honor Council Subcommittee that has been working on a revision of the Honor Code that will provide greater clarity and organization. This revision was student-initiated and student-written—after all, the Honor System only works because students have ownership in the code and the process. This revision must be voted on by the Student Conduct Council twice in order to become the new code. The revision has received its first approval and another vote will be taken on Apr. 9. I urge you to take the time to read over this proposal and speak with those who represent you on the Student Conduct Council: Foster Haselden, Jehan Shamsid-Dee, Ann Harriott Fisher, Chris Tuttle, Ainsley Natta, Tim Saintsing, Lindsey Hughes, and Sam Kuykendall. There are also faculty and staff members who serve and are eager to hear your input.

Sincerely,
Joslyn Ogden ‘00

Proposed Honor Code Revision
Preliminary vote of SCC passed 12 Mar 98

Each Davidson student is honor-bound to refrain from cheating on academic work, stealing, and lying about college business. Cheating is any practice, method, or assistance, whether explicitly forbidden or unmentioned, that involves any degree of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit. The specific guidelines for each class are determined by its professor. Each Davidson student is responsible for knowing what practices, methods, and assistance his or her professors consider cheating. Each student is responsible for observing the professor’s requirements for documentation of another’s work. Stealing is the intentional taking of any property without right or permission. Lying is intentional misrepresentation of any form. Examples of college business include, but are not limited to, the improper or false use of identification, seeking excused absences from class, and failing to respond to a request from the campus police.

Each Davidson student is honor-bound to report immediately all violations of the Honor Code of which the student has first-hand knowledge; failure to do so is itself a violation of the Honor Code. All students, faculty, and staff of Davidson College are responsible for familiarity with and support of the Honor Code. Any student, faculty member, administrative officer, employee, or guest of the college may charge a student with a violation of the Honor Code. Charges are presented to the Dean of Students and, at the Dean’s discretion, must be signed. If the Dean determines that further proceedings are warranted by the Honor Council, he or she will prepare a formal charge.

The following statement is the official Honor Pledge of Davidson College: “On my honor, I have neither given nor received unauthorized information regarding this work, I have followed and will continue to observe all regulations regarding it, and I am unaware of any violation of the Honor Code by others.”