“The World’s Foremost College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

“Celebrate Depression Awareness Week.”

Prozac can help.

NEWS 2

If you can’t say something nice...
In defense of frosh.

OPINIONS 7, 8, 9

A&L

Don’t worry, be happy.
The Health Advisors are here for you.

Guilford sucks.
Cats rock.

SPORTS 16

~~

“Lights Out” Committee Strives to Keep Lights on in Chambers

By Laura McCandlish
Staff Writer

Tuition increases at Davidson is an issue of concern. The Financial Aid Office cannot currently meet 100 percent of demonstrated
student need, and so the need to limit tuition increases is crucial in order to expand the socioeconomic diversity of
the student body at Davidson.

A Budget Working Group is trying to keep the rate of tuition increase to a 30-year low. As Vice President
of Financial Affairs Robert Norfleet said, “We’ve combed through everything to look for options for savings.”

A few years back, a Mellon Grant funded a task force to study the efficient use of resources at Davidson,
and the results determined a huge potential for savings in energy consumption.

Currently, the energy-saving discussion is focused on President Bobby Vagt’s suggestion to close access to the Chambers Academic Building and
the Belk Visual Arts Center (VAC) between the hours of 1 and 6 a.m.

The money saved from the heating and lighting of the buildings during these particular hours would total over $250,000 a
year. As Norfleet said, “It’s unnecessary to raise tuition because, as a community, we’re being irresponsible about energy consumption.”

The suggestion to close these buildings has prompted adverse reactions from students. A recent SGA-sponsored survey showed that a majority
of students desire to have Chambers stay open as a late-night study option. In order to resolve this issue, SGA
has formed an ad-hoc Lights Out Committee, led by junior Independent Senator Jesse Smallwood. The Committee, which met for the
first time last week, will be working with Vagt to find solutions to the problems that are raised by closing
Chambers. “Our goal is to find a 24-hour study space with blackboards, desks, and good lighting,” said Smallwood. The Lights
Out Committee’s initial meeting was held in the dark in order to save energy and make a statement.

“The Committee tried to come to a consensus about what we are trying to push for and how to proceed
from here,” he said. At the first meeting, Union Board President Cintra Pollack gave the Committee a presentation on keeping
the Student Union open for 24-hour study as an alternative to Chambers. The committee members were receptive to the presentation
and “found it to sound like a viable alternative,” Smallwood said.

Pollack is also working with Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, for options to subsidize the Union Café so it
can remain open until 1 a.m.

Smallwood feels that if Chambers is closed, having the Union open 24 hours, with the Café having extended hours, would
be a “good compromise.” The Committee is still pushing to keep Chambers open if possible, but they are looking into
opening Union as an energy-saving option.

The Committee also considered the option of closing Chambers from 2 to 6 a.m., instead of 1 to 6 a.m.
The priorities of the committee are to ensure that a 24-hour computing facility remains accessible to students, and that Chambers
remains open during crunch periods for exams at the end of each semester. They also feel it is necessary to
keep the VAC open 24 hours a day, because “students really can’t study art history or do sculpture anywhere else,”
Smallwood said.

Freshman Wendy Legerton said, “Just as long as students have a place to study, whether in Chambers or the Union,
or anywhere else besides just the dorm halls.”

“I think Chambers should be open 24 hours just two weeks before exams, but for the rest of the semester,
we should have alternative study areas as long as they provide an academic atmosphere,” junior Richard Wright said.

Decisions about this situation will be made in the coming weeks.

Students with concerns or opinions concerning this topic should contact their Student Government Association representative or attend a meeting of
the SGA’s ad-hoc Lights Out Committee.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
