— Cats Swamp Guilford

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After playing great for one half last week, the Davidson defense put together their best total effort of the season
to lead the Cats to a 24-7 win over Guilford College last Saturday. Spivey and Wes Thornton had a great
game as they combined for six sacks. While the offense was sloppy at times, the defense kept the Quakers from
scoring as they produced an amazing seven turnovers. The defense held Guilford to -2 yards on 35 rushing attempts.

On the offensive end, Eric Ferguson was the star as he carried 25 times for 140 yards. Ferguson’s efforts vaulted
him to sixth on Davidson’s all-time scoring list with 116 points. He also moved from tenth to sixth in career
rushing as he now has 1,487 yards in just over two years.

The Wildcats' first drive of the night was all Ferguson. After senior quarterback Tommy Dugan got things started with an
impressive fourteen-yard run, Ferguson carried the ball five straight times as he moved the ball to the Guilford 25. Then
Dugan completed his first pass of the evening to Corey Crawford on a crucial fourth down. After the conversion, the
Cats settled for a 22-yard field goal to take a 3-0 lead.

The Cats' defensive intensity was present from the start. Right after Guilford made its first first down, linebacker Sam Fraundorf,
who’s having an excellent freshman year, came up with yet another big play as he caused a fumble. After two
Davidson turnovers, it appeared that the Quakers were about to score as they had the ball on the Davidson 10.
On third and goal from the 2, senior linebacker Wes Thornton made a great play as he stuffed Guilford’s running
back for a two-yard loss. After a pass interference call against the Cats, Thornton came up with another big play
as he sacked the Quakers’ quarterback for a nine-yard loss on third down. This sack proved to be crucial as
Guilford missed a thirty-one-yard field goal attempt.

Davidson’s only defensive mistake came with 1:37 left in the first quarter. On first and ten from their own 30,
Guilford’s quarterback threw a screen pass to senior running back David Heggie. Using speed and good blocks, Heggie took the
pass for a touchdown. After this point, the defense, but especially the secondary, completely shut the Quakers down. Disregarding the
70-yard pass, the Cats' defense only yielded 61 more passing yards the entire night.

Wes Thornton led the defense all night. He finished with seven tackles (one sack), an interception, and a forced fumble.
It was Thornton’s interception that led to the Cats' second score. Early in the second quarter, Thornton picked off Hardy’s
pass and ran it back all the way to the Guilford 8. Three plays later, Dugan ran in for the
score from one yard out.

The second half was all Davidson. Sophomore Ryan Hutto played a great game on special teams. On Guilford’s first second-half
possession, Hutto blocked Heggie’s punt. While Davidson recovered at the Guilford 26, Davidson wasn’t able to take advantage as they
fumbled the ball back on the next play. Guilford was now deep in their own territory. On third and seven
from the Guilford 8, senior Ben Spivey had his second sack of the game, this one for a seven-yard loss.
Guilford had to punt out of their own endzone, and the Cats had great field position. Unfortunately, Guilford wasn’t the
only team turning the ball over as Davidson did for the fourth time. Thornton, once again, came to the rescue,
as he forced a fumble on Guilford’s next play. Senior Wes Jones recovered, giving Davidson excellent field position. Jones, a
former tight end, continued to play well at defensive end. In addition to recovering a fumble, he had six tackles
(one sack). This time, Davidson took advantage as Corey Crawford caught a twenty-two-yard touchdown pass from Dugan. Davidson now led
by ten.

Another turnover led to the Cats' final score of the evening. After a punt by sophomore Jeremiah Parvin, Guilford fumbled,
and Davidson recovered on the Quakers' 25. After Corey Crawford had a twenty-yard run to the 2-yard line, Eric Ferguson
rambled in on first and goal. Crawford, like Ferguson, also had an outstanding game. He had a game-high five catches
for 73 yards, and he rushed for 41 yards on 5 carries.

While Davidson rested many of their starters in the fourth quarter, neither the offense nor defense let up. Freshman Ryan
Pagan, Ferguson’s eventual successor, had 12 carries in the quarter. He ended up with 49 yards on 14 carries. Backup
quarterback Shaun Tyrance played well in limited minutes. Also, the defense recorded two more interceptions. One was by junior Donnie
Johnson, his second of the night.

DAVIDSON 24, GUILFORD 7
Guilford 7 0 0 0 — 7
Davidson 3 7 14 0 — 24

DC— FG Langley 22
GC— Heggie 70 pass from Foulks (Southam kick)
DC— Dugan 1 run (Langley kick)
DC— Crawford 22 pass from Dugan (Langley kick)
DC— Ferguson 2 run (Langley kick)

Individual Statistics

RUSHING— Guilford, Heggie 10-39, Davis 2-4, Cherry 13-4, Hardy 2-(-13). Davidson, Ferguson 25-140, Pagan 14-49, Crawford 5-41, Kern 1-4.

PASSING— Guilford, Foulks 7-18-2 131, Hardy 1-4-0. Davidson, Dugan 7-15-0 67, Crawford 2-2-0 45.

RECEIVING— Guilford, Cherry 4-30, Heggie 1-70, Denton 1-15, Porter 1-8. Davidson, Crawford 5-73, Pagan 2-(-5), Williams 1-29, Kern 1-15.the game.
Seniors Wes Jones and Tom Ting both had sacks. With the two hardest games behind them (Jacksonville & Emory and
Henry), Davidson football has reason to be optimistic about the rest of the year. If the defense plays like they
did on Saturday, you can expect a lot more wins this season. The Cats' next game is against rival Washington
& Lee this Saturday at 1:30 on Richardson Field.

Davidson women’s volleyball dominate
By PETER GROSS
Staff Writer

Coming off back-to-back losses to Chattanooga and South Carolina, Davidson volleyball entered last weekend at a crossroads. With an 8-6
record overall, and 3-2 in the Southern Conference, the women had reached a decisive point in the season. Two tough
conference matches on the road would display the team’s mental toughness as they headed into conference play. Thanks to a
stellar effort, the ladies were triumphant in both contests, as they defeated the College of Charleston 3-0 on Saturday and
Georgia Southern 3-2 on Sunday.

Charleston, a new addition to the Southern Conference this year, could not withstand the Cats’ constant pressure. Davidson dominated on
both sides of the net, leading Charleston in both kills (46-29) and blocks (7-3). Senior Gina Lawrence led the offensive
attack with 12 kills, and Sophomore Mara Mordini set the defensive standard with 22 digs. Though Charleston competed well early
in the match, as Davidson claimed victory by narrow margins of 15-12 and 15-11 in the first two games respectively,
the ‘Cats eventually wore their opponent down and easily won the third game, 15-4.

On Sunday, Davidson traveled to Georgia Southern for a key Southern Conference match. Georgia Southern, tied with Davidson for third
place in the conference rankings, held home court advantage. The ‘Cats, however, jumped out to an early lead and won
games one and two by scores of 15-4 and 15-13. Georgia Southern battled back to tie Davidson at two games
apiece by winning games three and four in decisive fashion, 15-5 and 15-7. While Georgia Southern appeared to have the
momentum as both teams headed into game five, Davidson rallied. The ‘Cats were victorious in the fifth and final game,
15-6, and thus secured third place in the conference.

In this key match, Davidson received outstanding performances from several players. Senior Janet Duncan dominated the middle (again) and led
the team in blocks, while setter Ginny Quis had 38 assists. Sophomore sensation Mara Mordini, however, stole the show. As
defending “Athlete of the Week,” Mordini led Davidson in both kills and digs, with 13 and 12 respectively. She exemplified
the excellent play of each of the players, as the ‘Cats continue an impressive run early in conference play. Davidson
next plays conference foe Furman on Wednesday, October 8, at 7 p.m. at Belk Arena.

Men’s soccer loses three matches on the road
By BEN COVINGTON
Sports Layout Editor

The Davidson Men’s Soccer Team, after three difficult matches, came away with three losses this week. The Wildcats faced UNC
Greensboro on Tuesday, losing 4-1. Friday’s game against 18th ranked Wake Forest ended similarly, 4-1. The final game of the
week against College of Charleston resulted in a 2-1 loss.

All three of the matches this week saw the most action in the second half. UNC-G went out of the
first half with a 1-0 lead over the Wildcats, scored by senior All-American Siggi Eyjolfsson. In the second half, there
were three goals scored in only two and a half minutes, Wildcat freshman Chris Norbet’s first collegiate goal among them.
The Greensboro Spartans closed out the game with a goal from a penalty kick and a final goal by freshman
Mike Dunaway.

Following the loss to UNC-G, the Wildcats faced Wake Forest on Tuesday. The Demon Deacons were ranked 18th by Soccer
News and had defeated no. 1 ranked Washington the week before. Wake Forest led 2-1 at halftime; the Wildcats’ goal
was scored by a header from Demon Deacon Kaweesi-Mukooza which flew astray. The Davidson offense could only manage two shots
on goal during the game, while the Deacons hammered 14 at goalkeeper Brad Streble.

In the final game of the week, Davidson faced College of Charleston on Sunday. College of Charleston entered the game
with a record similar to that of the Wildcats at (1-8). Freshman Jeremy Kilburn scored Davidson’s lone goal with less
than 10 minutes to play in the game. This week the Wildcats face Furman on Wednesday and Duke on Friday.
Both games are away.

Wildcats 1 Field Hockey 4
C. Charleston 2, Wildcats 1
Brent Ferrell
Ms. Volleyball
App. St. 2, Wildcats 3
Wake Forest 9
Cross Country
Wildcats 3
Wildcats 1
Ferrell, a junior, broke a 21-year-old school record in the 8K with a time of 25:11
Men’s Soccer
Football
Wildcats 24, Guilford 7
Wake Forest 4

GAME OF THE WEEK
Men’s Soccer @ Duke
October 9th 7PM
Women’s Soccer VS. Georgia
October 9th 4PM at home

Men’s Soccer
Oct 7th @ Furman 7pm
Oct 9th @ Duke 7pm
Oct 13th VMI 10:30 am
Oct 16th @ Wofford 7pm

Women’s Soccer
Oct. 9th Georgia 4pm
Oct 12th @ Clemson 7pm
Oct 16th UNC Asheville 4pm
Oct 18th @ Chattanooga 2pm

Volleyball
Oct 8th Furman 7pm
Oct 10th Wofford 1pm
Oct 13th @ The Citadel 3pm

Field Hockey
Oct 9th @ Virginia 2pm
Oct 18-20th @ Cothran Inv
Oct. 10th @ Columbia TBA
Oct 12th @ Villanova 4pm
Oct 17th @ D&E Elkins 4pm
Oct 18th @ Richmond 12pm

Football
Oct 10th Wash & Lee 1:30
Oct 17th @ Methodist 1pm

Golf
Oct 11-13th @ Chat. Invit.

Cross Country
Oct 10th @ Furman
Oct 17th @ N.C. Champs.

Swimming & Diving
Oct 17th @ William & Mary 2pm
