Sprained my ankle the other day dancing with Cintra Pollack and Max Nelson. It turned over as I transitioned from the moonwalk to the worm—a deadly, freak-daddy move that really gets a crowd going if done correctly. Unfortunately, I came down the wrong way on the cardboard, twisting my ankle in a never-before-seen way. I’ve been out of commission ever since. Now all I can do is sit around and try to think of all the characters in Breakin’ I, Breakin’ II, and Breakin’ III. So far, though, I can only come up with Turbo and Special K. This physical impairment, however, led me to a few philosophical meanderings that will really blow your socks off.

1) Something has got to be done about parking on campus. I pulled out of a parking spot in front of Hart the other day on my way to the Union and ended up parking at the nearest available spot somewhere in downtown Mooresville. THE DAVIDSONIAN Break dancing injury caus. There’s only one real solution to this problem: Freshmen should not be allowed to have vehicles on campus. That would make life for the elders a lot easier. We could actually park next to the building we wanted to go in. I guess I can sympathize with those freshmen who cringe at the thought of college life without a set of wheels. Wait, no, I can’t. Freshmen don’t need cars. What the hell do they need them for, anyway? They eat all of their meals at the Commons and they can’t go into the ABC store. They can’t even loiter at the ABC store. Personally, I need to go to the ABC store at least four times a week. I tend to get angry, though, when I have to walk to Kannapolis just to get my car whenever I need to purchase some liquor before class. And I really get angry when I have a sprained ankle and I have to walk to Kannapolis just to get my car so I can booze it up before class. Take away their cars. Take them all away. Please give this alkie a break. The College, of course, could compensate the carless ones by buying them all one of those ridiculous-looking scooters like that one guy rides to class. That would be great. It would be funny, too—a whole lot of Scooter McGooters.

2) Have you ever thought extensively about baking soda? The sh*t is crazy! I don’t think there has ever been such a multi-talented product. You can put out fires with baking soda. You can scrub the stove with baking soda. You can keep your freezer fresh with baking soda. You can brush your teeth with baking soda. You can make a dumb little volcano with baking soda. You can clean your carpet with baking soda. You can even bake with baking soda! Unbelievable! If you were stranded on a small island in the Pacific, you could probably survive with just a large box of baking soda. No fresh water? Just drink the baking soda. Nothing to eat? Eat the baking soda. Smelly teeth? Baking soda. Nothing to do? Play with the baking soda. Etc.

3) Did you know that the Academy Awards are a woman’s version of the Superbowl? In football, you have a pre-game show in which announcers debate the outcome of the game, the tactics that will be used, and the scores that might be settled. The AA’s has a pre-game too, except it’s a lot dumber. Instead of score predictions, we get outfit predictions from all these editors of stupid fashion magazines. We hear stuff like, “Oh, my God, last year Cher made a huge mistake by wearing this long-cut, twin-collar, double-breasted sequin dress by Armani when everybody knows she looks better in a two-fisted, lace-trimmed, green corduroy gown by Dior. I don’t think she’ll make the same mistake this year!” Instead of good-to-know facts like, “Green Bay has won 12 games in a row against AFC teams,” we get worthless gossip and hearsay from forecasters who have the nerve to say things like, “Titanic will definitely win ‘Best Picture,’ ‘cause Leonardo is the heartthrob of more than three-quarters of the world’s population—that’s close to eight billion people... and that Celine song... it’s sooo good!” The AA’s, like the Superbowl, end up lasting over six hours, and most of that time is spent giving out worthless awards like “Best Performance by a One-Legged Midget in a Dramatic Role.” As in football, the only truly important moment is the end. The film that steals that award makes some sort of a symbolic last-second field goal. The director, or the coach, comes up for his acceptance speech, which inevitably becomes an exercise of inarticulate ranting, chanting, or supreme elation. In both cases, God is usually and often unnecessarily invoked. We hear stuff like, “God was with this team tonight” or “I’m just glad God gave me the chance to make this film.” James Cameron seemed to think he was the greatest man alive when he got up on stage. I say anybody could make a “Best Picture” film for $400 million, or however much it cost to make that atrocity.

4) A job—I need one. It’s gotten tothe point now that I spend more time trying to think of excuses than really looking for an interview. My latest response to the “Do you have a job?” question is, “I think I’m going to take at least a year off and travel. After that I'll probably go to law school... or med school... or become a banker or something.” What the hell is a banker, anyway? Do you have to have a bank to be a banker? Man, that’s one of those words that sounds funny when you say it a whole bunch of times. Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker... So that, in a nutshell, sums up the extent of my intellectual pursuits since I injured myself. When I do finally get off the disabled list I plan on walking to Huntersville (to get my car) so I can drive to the ABC store and see if they are hiring. If that doesn’t pan out, I guess I'll be doing the worm for the rest of my life.

Davidson in need of Women’s Resource Center

There was not a whole lot that I agreed with in Sarah Ogden’s editorial about Women’s Month. As a male, I have felt welcome at every Women’s Month event, except for those where gender specificity inheres in the nature of the event (i.e., Women’s Sexual Esteem Workshop, R.A.D.). As a member of the Women’s Issues Committee, I am offended by the insinuation that all of our committee schedules are events during the month of March. But our esteemed Women’s Issues Chairperson, Elizabeth Malphurs, can express more eloquently and factually these claims, so I will leave that to her (see her opinion piece in this Davidsonian edition).

Ogden did have one thing right in her article: that “every day should be women’s day”; that “we should work constantly towards creating a society that celebrates and nourishes our wonderful women.” So what? Do something about it. Do something about it, Sarah. Do something about it, students, staff, and faculty of Davidson College. The time has come for this campus to make a conscious, focused effort to provide resources, support, and facilities enabling both women and men on this campus to deal with that which we have lumped together under one title, women’s issues.

The time actually came 12 years ago, when a proposal was made for a Women’s Resource Center, stating needs hauntingly appropriate still today. Twelve years ago, the proposal failed to come to fruition. But who can now deny that this campus needs such a place? Who can walk by the bulletin board in our Union, take notice of the map of our campus covered with symbolic rapes, and deny our student body a place of support? Who can attend “Take Back the Night,” come to understand that rape and abuse have damaged lives of so many students before attending Davidson, and deny our student body a place for counseling? Who can read syllabus after syllabus overwhelmed by male authors and deny our student body a place of educational and faculty resources?

Now that plans are beginning for a new Union, now that we have seen how little difference the current coed living scheme has made in gender relations, now that we have heard testimonies of the problems throughout Women’s Month and most poignantly at “Take Back the Night,” it is apparent that the time for action has come. Dialogue about a Women’s Center has begun with students, faculty, and staff across campus. I am writing to ask each one of you to participate in this dialogue, this action. And do not be deceived, this action is not just important for battered women. This action can be nothing but beneficial to all women and all men across campus.

A Women’s Resource Center can provide a number of benefits. There are many possibilities, but such a center could include a library, meeting space, TV and video equipment, a co-organizational calendar, archives, offices, a gathering space, and a center for crisis support. Gender studies faculty members could hold office hours there. It could house on-site counseling. Such a space would allow complementary committees to pool information and resources to enable more effective planning. Most importantly, such a space would be a refuge, a support system, a statement.

What can you do? Most importantly, you can think and talk about what a Women’s Center could mean to you. Talk to your friends. Talk to your professors. Talk to the people who can help this vision become a reality: President Vagt, Director of the Union William Brown, Dean Shandley, Dean Marsicano, and all the rest. And if you are interested in developing and working for this vision, join us this Thursday at 7:00 p.m. The meeting will be held in the Home Room, and all of you, male and female, are invited to attend. Before us is a chance to create here at Davidson an atmosphere that nurtures and celebrates all students, regardless of physiological distinctions. As Ogden wrote in her editorial, let us not pass up this opportunity to “fight for ourselves.”

VESDA WELL JACKS, THIS IS UNUSUAL, I'VE NEVER SEEN SUN, LITE, AND UMONIA ALL AT THE SAME TIME!

WEDNESDAY — MAY A LITTLE RAIN MUST FALL...

by Katie Miltich

"EINKRO Hits Davidson"