_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Budget Cuts. The administration says they are necessary; those who were affected by them obviously don’t. And then there is an incensed student who worries that Davidson is becoming a business. I think it is important to see the budget cuts from a middle ground. The budget does need to be rethought, but the administration may not necessarily be on the right track.

Though it may disturb Ms. Thomas (see Thomas’ commentary in the Special Feature section in the Feb. 17 issue of The Davidsonian) and others, Davidson College is inescapably a business. People are important, but in the long run, the purpose of the college is, as Ms. Thomas writes, to broaden minds and provide high-quality education. Often it is necessary to make business decisions, like scaling back the budget, in order to achieve these aims. As students, we must do no less than demand that our school be run as a business — operating as efficiently and productively as possible. However, I think Davidson, like many other colleges and universities, has to some extent forgotten that its product is a well-educated student. With such a product in mind, the administration should seek to direct operations and funnel resources to focus specifically on the development of each student.

The recent budget cutbacks do not seem world-shattering by any means. Though I do not know any of those affected, I definitely respect their work; however, I trust that the administration made informed, intelligent decisions. Though the Campus Police are wonderful people, one cannot justify such a large presence on a low-crime campus with an honor code. Administrative positions were over-abundant as well. President Vagt’s assertion that Davidson is made great by people is called to question by his decision, and I’m sure those affected will disagree with his decision. The one way to make the decision correct is to ensure that the cuts were worthwhile. Hopefully, the changes were not made to decrease tuition inflation in the short run but to help Davidson better fulfill the needs of students in the long run. The sacrifices of certain staff members will seem ridiculous if the only effect is a financial break for one class of students. The challenge for President Vagt is to use this money to improve Davidson College as an institution.

Without question, more money is needed than the budget currently supplies. Lieutenant McLaurin is right — one of those needs is not a new elevator. The new money should instead work to provide better teaching, better activities, and better facilities. The Sociology department that will hopefully endorse my diploma has three professors. The Center for Interdisciplinary Studies does not even have one professor focusing on it exclusively. Other departments (such as Education and Classics) face similar conditions. Few professors mean few classes — how many of us in these departments have been forced to take an unappealing class just to fulfill an elective major requirement? That is inexcusable!

In addition to professors, Davidson needs better activities. Every other school — larger and smaller — that I have visited seems to have more “big name” performers, speakers, etc. Though activities here are superb in both quantity and quality, I still lament returning from a semester at the University of Chicago where in one semester Mike Dyson, Jocelyn Elders, Toni Morrison, Milton Friedman, and uncountable others spoke; where in one year Beck, Koko Taylor, and A Tribe Called Quest performed; and where each night a different movie played in the Dolby-SurroundSound-endowed student union theater. Finally, though we are building a new student union and science building, we still lag behind in student housing, faculty facilities, and athletic facilities students can use (any pick-up basketball player can tell you about the troubles of finding an open court).

The conclusion is clear: the number one priority for the newly-freed money should be to contribute it to the greatly needed continuing development of Davidson College as an institution. As far as I am concerned, you can raise tuition eight percent instead of four percent as long as the money works to provide classes I want for my major, living conditions that meet the standards set by their price, better entertainment, etc. If the true purpose behind decreasing tuition inflation is to attract more students, and indeed what else could it be, then one question must be asked: what will attract students — a smaller tuition hike for one year or improvements in faculty, facilities, and activities that would make Davidson more attractive for all subsequent prospectives?

There is one final thing in her commentary that elicits comment. Christina Thomas quotes Robert Norfleet as saying, “I hope students aren’t entertaining the idea that the budget and finances of this school are any of their business, because it’s not their business.” I don’t know if this is taken out of context, but I hope there is some explanation for his words. This scares me. I do not want to go to a school where students are treated as infantile inmates who should not concern themselves with the school’s operations. It is not only the right of each student to participate in the administration of our school, it is our responsibility. I am no one to make demands, but I would hope that Dr. Norfleet can and will explain his words. Otherwise, let him work out finances without my money.

I said earlier that I think a view from a middle ground is necessary on the issue of budget cutbacks. I think we must show patience as well. If the administration proves that it is using the money to enrich Davidson as an institution, then the cuts made, though painful on the receiving end, are justified and good. If, however, gains made are temporary, money is misused, or needs are neglected, then President Vagt — you have made a mistake. Though Dr. Norfleet might disagree, financial decisions the administration makes are my business. Prove to me that you did the right thing.asked, Over the long run, which is more likely to There are alternatives to layoffs and cutbacks. Neti over the College budget inevitably calls into question this institution’s values. In order to continue to provide an excellent college experience while providing opportunity for students from all socioeconomic backgrounds to attend Davidson, the College must create a budget consistent with these goals. In the zeal to cut costs, the institution must avoid undermining the values that characterize Davidson.

Davidson’s community atmosphere distinguishes it from schools of similar academic quality. This characteristic is embodied in the personal attention that comes with a high faculty-to-student ratio and caring staff. Some may say this college is overstaffed, but if budget cuts continue to eliminate staff, Davidson will gradually lose the unique factor that attracts quality applicants. Since the college is struggling with the quandary of how to allocate its funds, a new union should not be on the agenda. The present Union adequately serves the students, and its location is advantageous, unlike the proposed site. Moreover, Davidson does not need a building that would further isolate the College from the town. A new union would eliminate the only contact some students have with the town: waving at cars when they stop to let the students cross to the post office or ATM. As for the issue of keeping up with other colleges, the student Davidson wants to attract is concerned with the substance of the College, not by its physical structures.

Into preparing a lecture, or extra time they stay to talk with students, creates the chance for students to be inspired and expand their boundaries. Why should faculty be loyal to a place where they don’t feel valued? A caring staff is also an integral part of the College community by helping students cope with the stresses of Davidson life. If their morale is low, they won’t put their hearts into their jobs. In last week’s Davidsonian, in “The Business that is Davidson College,” staff should have input on these decisions which shape this institution. Ideas stemming from the minds of those people who know the College best need to be considered in order to cut the budget without incurring undesirable effects.

Phasing out the laundry service is an example of how the College could save money without firing anyone or undermining the goals of the College. Granted, the laundry does make Davidson special. If you leave money in your pockets, it miraculously returns to you in a little envelope, or if a button is about to pop off, it is magically sewn on. My mom doesn’t even do those things. When the College lays off employees, when staff and faculty take cuts in pay or benefits, or when important services are neglected, the extent to which the faculty and staff are willing to give of themselves is paralyzed a little more, and everyone suffers repercussions. Each time a professor goes beyond what is expected, a student is motivated to dig deeper, challenge his or her preconceived notions, and to explore new possibilities. Extra effort professors put Robert Norfleet, the College’s Vice President for Business and Finance, commented that the College budget is none of the students’ business. Students, as well as faculty and staff, are the ones directly affected by the budget. Students dedicate their efforts to learning, while many of them and their families sacrifice in order to attend this College. Faculty and staff devote their livelihoods to Davidson. For these reasons, students, as well as faculty and staff, should have a say in budget decisions.

You sheepishly make it known that you are leaving in ten minutes to catch a plane, and all your socks are currently in the dryer, six laundry ladies will fold and wrap 12 pounds of laundry in 30 seconds, while asking you what the weather in Wisconsin is like this time of year. On the other hand, money needs to be channeled into areas that function to educate students. Students who want the service could pay an extra fee. If demand exceeds capacity as staff retire, a lottery could determine who can use the service. Other changes to cut costs at Davidson are fitting. Students could pick up their own litter. Reorganizing staff jobs would allow them to work more efficiently and avoid having to lay them off or cut hours. The College could spend less on entertaining. Financial aid somehow could be restructured so that families no longer have the incentive to spend in order to qualify for aid. Contests between residence halls could conserve energy. The most important thing is for administration, faculty, staff, and students to unite in brainstorming sessions in order to devise ways to cut the budget. Two students sitting on a committee can’t do it alone.

Davidson should treat its students, faculty, and staff like individuals, and the College must take care to avoid trampling on this primary value when it creates its budget. Just as an applicant is not a composite of test scores, a GPA, and a list of extracurriculars, the value of an item in the budget, such as an employee or a program, cannot be seen on an accounting sheet. The people who have the biggest stake in the College, the faculty, students, and staff, should play an important role in determining how the budget is reshaped.