THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1998

Davidson’s own Day of the Dead draws nigh

Latin American holiday “supplements” Halloween

By Will Bradshaw
Guest Writer

Two years ago, it was my buddy’s birthday, and a few of us went to get him a card. We found a card we loved after half an hour of reading and searching. The front had the Grim Reaper beckoning with his long, bony finger, and the inside had one simple phrase: “Oh yes, come to Papa.” We thought it was hilarious.

At dinner, we proudly presented the treasure to our friend, bragging that we had found the perfect card. He tore into the envelope with a wide smile on his face. When the Grim Reaper confronted him, the smile disappeared. Reluctantly, he peeked inside, and after a moment’s pause said, “Oh, thanks guys.”

We all wanted to curl up and disappear right then, but the worst was yet to come. His whole family wanted to see the perfect card we had purchased. The heinous thing was passed from hand to hand around the table — grandmothers, uncles, cousins, parents — one by one they looked on the card with smiling faces. One by one the smiles drooped. With the help of Death, we had succeeded in killing the whole room.

Looking back, this story is more than a humorous memory we hope never to relive. Now, I am struck by the traditionally Latino attitude at work in the card. Whereas U.S. culture hides away from death and its images, Latin American culture embraces them. From the famous drawings and etchings of Posada to the bloody, suffering Christs in churches and the papier-mâché dolls exploded each year in celebration, Latino life is ripe with the trappings of mortality. This is never more apparent than during the Latin cousin of Halloween, The Day of the Dead.

During this celebration, colorful and elaborate altars are decorated with flowers and skeletons, skull candy and bread in the shapes of bones are prepared and eaten, families, friends, and strangers come together to celebrate each other and the people they have known by prancing death into the open. Together, they drag the Reaper out of the shadows and laugh at him for a while. Day of the Dead becomes a celebration of life in the face of the inevitable.

The attitude toward death that characterizes Day of the Dead may be a more novel idea than it first appears. Octavio Paz points out the disconnections between life and death in the modern West. “The century of health, hygiene and contraceptives, miracle drugs and synthetic foods, is also the century of the concentration camp and the police state, Hiroshima and the murder story. Nobody thinks about death, about his own death . . . because nobody lives a personal life” (“Labyrinth of Solitude” 57). We have made uncanny advancements in extending our days, but we have lost touch with the sanctity of life and death as an inseparable duality. We extend life at all costs, and we block death from our minds, but Day of the Dead tries to reconnect the two.

This holiday reminds us that life and death are two sides of the same coin, and it provides us with an opportunity for reflection — an opportunity to embrace our own mortality and to be invigorated by the embrace, and an opportunity to remember loved ones who have died and to heal some of the wounds left by their departure.

Thanks to the extraordinary efforts of a few individuals, we will celebrate a Davidson College version of Day of the Dead on Nov. 2 this year. It will come complete with an altar, traditional food, and a candle-lit walk to remember the people who have passed through our lives. We are all invited to participate in these events, and all invited to expand our perspective. Taste a little skull candy, peer for a while at the intricate beauty put into the creation of the altars, and walk, candle in hand, in memory of someone who has died. The most wonderful part of the celebration is that it serves as a reminder that we will all experience the same ultimate fate, but the distinguishing factor in our deaths will be the way we have lived.We may all be “going to Papa,” but we all have the opportunity, perhaps the charge, to leave something beautiful behind before we go.

106 SOUTH DAVIDSON, GIVE US A HAND! CALL WES or MELISSA FOR MORE INFO.

By Brian Campbell
Tree Writer

This week’s trees of the week, the Pecan, Hickory, and Walnut, are the final in a series on fruit and nut trees. These nut trees were planted long ago by homeowners, and they grow in abundance around historic buildings on our campus and in town. The height of nut harvest would have been around October, and children, college students, and townspeople likely hurried to gather the precious gifts from above. The houses now filled with the offices of admissions, financial aid, careers, alumni/ae, and development years ago were filled with the smells of pecan pies, pralines, and hickory smoked meats.

All three trees are of the same family, Juglandaceae, and share many common characteristics. They have deep taproots, the central shoot perpendicular to the ground, and consequently, they are quite sturdy and difficult to transplant. Saplings generally start small, but these trees become quite large, reaching 100 feet or more. All three have leaves arranged pinnately, in two parallel rows along each stem, with a single leaflet at the tip. They all produce strong and beautiful timber and are commercially grown for wood in addition to their nuts.

The pecan (Carya illinoensis) is one of the most consumed nuts in America. Its sweet flavor is popular in pies, candy, ice cream, and coffee. Throughout the Southeast, thin-shelled varieties are harvested on orchards and from wild trees. Georgia produces about a third of the nation’s crop, while Alabama, Mississippi, and Texas have many growers. The wood of the pecan is used for flooring, veneer, and charcoal for smoking meats. Native Americans are thought to have cultivated the tree for some time, spreading it throughout the Mississippi River Valley. The name “pecan” is of Algonquin origin. The tree did not make its way east until much later and was planted by the likes of Thomas Jefferson, who enjoyed them so much he shared pecan seeds with his friend George Washington. Pecans are the oldest trees at Washington’s Mount Vernon home, though they have never achieved the fame of the storied cherry tree.

Closely related to the pecan is the Shagbark Hickory (Carya ovata), with its gray bark that appears to be shedding in large strips. Settlers made yellow dye from the inside of this bark and used the strong wood for making tool handles and bows. Important to our region is its use in furniture, since 60 percent of the nation’s furniture is produced within 200 miles of Hickory, N.C. Our seventh president, Andrew Jackson, nicknamed “Old Hickory,” praised the toughness of this timber. The wood is used for charcoal as well, and adds flavor to smoked meats, like “Hickory Hams.” It was the nuts, however, that were most popular with Native Americans. The name hickory derives from “pawcohiccora,” a porridge made from pounding the nuts and boiling them in water, and used to make acorn cakes and hominy.

Though it lacks much of a presidential past, the Black Walnut (Juglans nigra) rules when it comes to timber value. One of the scarcest and most coveted native hardwoods, it is used for cabinets, furniture, gunstocks, and veneer. Individual trees fetch such attractive prices that “Walnut Rustlers” have devised sophisticated techniques to remove trees, such as midnight uprootings with helicopters! Like the other trees, this one grows straight and tall and often its branches are high from the ground. Falling from high above are its pale green fruits. Inside the leathery outer skin is a layer of black endocarp, once used to make dye. Be careful examining the nuts, or you’ll henna your hands. Inside is the familiar thick-shelled walnut, used in a variety of cookies, cakes, and breads.

Relive the magic of Davidson’s past this week by visiting these historic trees along Glasgow and Main Street from Lingle all the way to the Post Office and beyond. Celebrate their varied uses, and collect some nuts for yourself. But also this week, reflect on the things that are not so obvious. These trees reach deep into the earth for their nourishment, giving them amazing strength. Take time to root yourself in the depths this week.