THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bonner program is about indivi

McCarthy reflects on her goals for the Scholars

Liz Neiheisel of The Davidsonian recently sat down with Laura McCarthy, Coordinator of the Bonner Scholars program.

Davidsonian: What made you come back to Davidson after graduating from here in 1994?

McCarthy: I probably would not have taken this job if I had found out about it right after college, but
during my year out of college, I traveled in a program called “Up with People” that balances cross-cultural education, service
learning, community building, performance, and multi-culturalism. It’s just an amazing program. I went and learned how to perform a two-hour
musical and then traveled around the United States and Canada and Europe. I lived with families everywhere I went and
did community service in all the communities that I visited. I lived on the road and out of a suitcase
for a year and traveled every four or five days, living with this cast of people, about 150 people from
about 26 countries, and lived that way for a year or so. It was amazing. I grew up in Lynchburg
and came to Davidson, which is even smaller than Lynchburg, and so all of a sudden I was out there
in the world and doing all this service. I was totally hooked. When I came home, I knew I wanted
to change directions. I loved the field of experiential learning. I thought that community service was amazing in the things
that it taught you and that you could learn about yourself when you were out in the community. And so
I wanted to find something that balanced experiential learning and community service. I ran into Katherine Cook, who was the
coordinator before me, at a random Christmas party and knew this job was for me. Things that are meant to
be, are meant to be. I feel like you just kind of fall into your path in life.

D: What were your main expectations when you came into this job, and do you feel as if they have
been fulfilled or altered?

M: I think my expectations have been met. I came in expecting that this would be a really creative position
and a really hands-on position, and just a lot of “being in the middle of it all.” You’re kind of
the connection to the students. There was Ruth (Pittard) and then me and then the students. So I knew my
job would be extremely varied, and it definitely has been. I’ve gotten to know this community really well. I also
expected the job to challenge me, which it has. It’s made me go far outside my comfort zone, which is
a good thing.

D: If you could make a general statement about Bonner Scholars, how would you characterize them?

M: I think what I find in Bonners is that they come in and have already had the experience of
trying to balance school and work and that type of thing. In that respect, they come in a little more
ready to balance things. Although, every freshman has always been shocked by the workload. I haven’t met a freshman yet
that wasn’t shocked. But I feel like they take it in stride. They are involved not only with their schoolwork
and sports, but they’re also doing community service and some of them have jobs. They’re just doing a lot of
different things and really involving themselves. I wouldn’t call any student here at Davidson one-dimensional, because I know that everybody
is really busy, but the different dimension that I see for Bonners is that they have a real way to
balance their academic life here at Davidson and get a taste for what is outside the walls of Davidson and
outside your classrooms and outside tests and stress. You’re seeing what’s out there when you’re graduated and working and that’s
a great way to balance what you're learning, and that’s the balance that I see is different for Bonners and
really for any student that’s doing service. I’m glad that they have that opportunity. It’s experiential.

-ECO-FACT-
A recycled aluminum can is typically re-melted and back in the store within six weeks. (Source: EarthWorks Group)
Remember, only four weeks until Earth Day!

D: As far as the program itself, what do you think are some of the greatest strengths of the Bonner
program at this college?

M: One of the greatest strengths of the program at this college is the individual nature of the program. I
think that’s really key. And also the opportunity that it gives students for outside experiences and for growth experiences: connections
for international service and to trips and to conferences and to networking, if you really want to get into the
service field. I don’t feel like there’s a big push for that in our career services office. It’s very business
career-oriented and graduate school-oriented, and we have this whole other section of work that you can get into, so I
feel like that’s a big advantage. As far as the individual, that’s vital. Students need to have their own place
and need to be able to sit down and say, “This is who I am and this is where I
want to go and can you help me do that?” We do have frameworks and things like that which the
program follows somewhat, but I think there’s leeway for people to bump around in. And at times it doesn’t always
feel like that. When we presented the (Bonner Scholar Four-Year) plan, people reacted and said they didn’t want that much
structure in the plan. People are able to respond and tell us what they want. So we'll work on that
and backtrack. We feel that students have a voice in that, and sometimes I don’t know if that’s spoken up
as loudly as it could be. I think the student’s voice is definitely a big part of the program, and
I think Ruth is a big part of maintaining that quality. She’s the continuity, and the interns get to benefit
from that, from her wisdom. We have time down here and our focus is the individual. Our focus is not
academics, but personal growth. That’s different from other places.on campus, because service is such a personal thing.

D: As far as learning about the town, what are areas you have identified where the community needs growth, and
how has your perspective toward the town changed in transition from student to staff member?

M: When I was a student, what I knew about the town of Davidson was extremely limited, and my realm
was mainly Davidson. Now, having lived in Davidson, that communication (between the town and students) needs to be improved, and
I think that’s being worked on. A big problem for Davidson is going to be growth — it’s a good
thing and a bad thing. So many of the neighborhoods are building up as people from Charlotte move in, and
the traditional small-town structure of Davidson is quickly disappearing. You get money and town buildup, which is good, but on
the other hand, people get on top of each other and things get displaced. Unless you have good communication and
strong community ties within the various areas, you’re going to have problems, and I think we saw that over Christmas.
The town is making the attempt to establish that communication, and it’s a great thing. The college of Davidson could
have a really big hand in that. If we really make the effort to be there for the town, to
appreciate our personal investment as students and faculty and residents, we could be involved. Davidson can choose to shove itself
off to the side or really throw itself in there. We've got some problems, but we've got some amazing people
in this town, and the community is based on small-town values. People do care about where they live, and if
we could build on that, it would be a great thing. This office is wildly creative about that, and the
faculty and staff have super ideas about it. If people here could come together about that, and put that out
into the town, it would be great stuff. That’s what I’ve seen and never even noticed as a student. I
never even recognized the dynamics as a student.

D: What advice would you give to the Bonner Scholars who will remain after you leave, and what advice would
you give to your predecessor?

M: To the students, I would say that this program is expanding quickly, and the Bonner Foundation is expanding quickly
and establishing so many ties. The number of opportunities out there blow me away; it’s amazing. The students in this
program, the students at Davidson, are so bright and creative, and can go so far. To not take those opportunities
is an injustice to the individual. There are so many wild and amazing opportunities that can be had at this
stage in life, it would be crazy not to take them. From the students I’ve worked with, they do seek
those experiences out. Keep continuing to seek them out, and really raise your voices in this program. This program was
originally created to be student-run, and it’s getting there. Students can have such a bigger hand in this program to
run things and create things, to make their voice louder. It’s really up to the Bonners to say those things
and tell what they want to create and to do. This program is a blank slate, and it will remain
so. That’s what it was created for. To the new coordinator, I would pretty much say the same thing. This
job is open for creativity, to whatever their dreams are and what they want to do. They have a ready
and willing force behind them in the students who want to have the experiences and to create, and that’s a
great thing. I would tell them that they have 80 amazing students to get to know, and it’s wonderful. They’ve
got these 80 children to take care of, and only four cars! I would tell them to make the most
of their experience. Every experience you have is to be learned from, good or bad, and that’s something you shouldn’t
lose sight of. Life is just a series of experiences from which to grow.

By Buster Burk
Guest Writer

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity is getting ready for a big fundraiser to save African Elephants with the Save Valley
Conservancy Trust Fund. Michael Schenk, a PiKA brother who lives in Zimbabwe, has instigated PiKA’s program to help out his
country’s animals, and the first thing that he and his house are going to do is sell T-shirts, with all
of the proceeds going to the Conservancy. The Conservancy was established just a few years back as an answer to
the growing problem that Zimbabwe faces concerning their wildlife. The country is very poor, and threats such as overpopulated areas
of elephants that lead to starvation and poaching have depleted the African Elephant population rapidly. Although the government of Zimbabwe
has established national parks for these animals, funding to protect them from poaching is hard to come by, and open
grounds for tourists in the daytime turn into killing grounds for poachers at night. The Save Valley Conservancy, however, is
a privately-run enterprise made up of wealthy landowners who see the value of Zimbabwe's wildlife. The interesting concept here is
that PiKA’s fundraiser does not want to give its T-shirt profits to these wealthy landowners, but to the villages surrounding
the conservancy. Under this system, which has just been initiated in some areas of Zimbabwe to help better protect the
animals, money is given to the people around the parks. The village municipalities buy the elephants and pay to have
them shipped from overpopulated areas to hopefully protected areas, such as the Save Valley. The wealthy landowners actually lease the
elephants from the villages so that they can have the elephants on their land and bring in tourists. This system
has proven to work better than other systems in the past because poachers are less likely to kill animals that
actually help out their villages, most importantly their schools and hospitals. Each year that the landowners lease the elephants from
the villages, money is kept for public use. T-Shirt sales going on this Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday from 9-11 a.m.
in the Union.
