_ THE DAVIDSONIAN —

Youth groups worship, listen, and eat in Johnston Gym

By LYDIA WILSON
Staff Writer

Wednesday evening, Davidson’s Athletic Department, in conjunction with the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, InterVarsity, and Young Life chapters, hosted their second annual community-wide barbeque dinner in Johnston Gym. The event kicked off at 5:30 p.m. and was catered by Ford’s BBQ on Highway 21 in Cornelius.

Because of a sponsorship by Burgess Supply Company, the dinner was free for Davidson students. The cost for non-students was $7.00, but the price included a ticket to the Davidson-UTC basketball game.

Dinner was followed by a brief program at 6:15 p.m. that included a group of seniors from InterVarsity who led everyone in the singing of worship songs.

Three Davidson students gave personal testimonies during the program. Senior David Williams, junior Stan Baker, and senior Eric Sapp all told of how their relationships with Christ have helped them through the trying times in their lives.

There were many aims of the rally, according to Sapp, who is also the former FCA president. One of the most basic aims was to encourage support for the men’s basketball team.

Approximately 500 people attended the dinner and rally and then went to cheer the Wildcats on to victory, half to three-quarters of which were non-students.

The large turnout of people from the community was a realization of another of the rally’s goals. FCA members called over 400 churches in the Charlotte, Concord, and Cornelius areas to invite their youth groups to the event. Of those called, 40 churches attended.

Social time was worked into the beginning and end of the dinner to allow students and community members to meet each other and to talk.

The rally also allowed Davidson’s FCA, InterVarsity, and Young Life chapters to work together and interact. “We like to do anything we can with the other Christian groups,” said Sapp of the FCA chapter. “It helps create a consolidated Christian community.”

The final goal of the rally was to tie Christian activities with having fun. Though first and foremost there was a strong focus on worshiping and learning more about God, those present did their fair share of laughing.

Both Williams and Baker spoke of their experiences rolling houses in high school and senior Katie Palmer kept the crowd entertained by dancing while she helped lead more worship songs.

The informal program allowed all present to feel comfortable and to enjoy themselves. “We like to show people that you don’t have to be a somber Puritan to be a Christian,” said Sapp.

LOOKING FOR BACK ISSUES OF THE DAVIDSONIAN?

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

Fourth eating house?

Eating House from page 1

At this point in time, there are no plans to make the fourth eating house a co-ed institution.

The establishment of a new eating house would be in direct response to the pressing need to alleviate the problem of overcrowding in women’s eating houses.

The three houses that are currently present cannot continue to accommodate the large volume of women who are choosing to self-select. Hence, if another eating house is to be established, its first and foremost purpose would be to provide more room for women on the Court. Afterwards, if there still exists a great deal of interest in establishing a co-ed eating house, the Outpost could be converted into a fifth eating house.

Judging by the large number of women who attended the information session, it seems possible that Patterson Court may have a new addition by next fall.

In order for this to happen, however, RLO does need to have a monetary commitment from at least 40 women by the end of the semester.

As of now, there only exists a preliminary planning committee, but eventually a committee of women willing to serve as board members for the new house must be formed.

Besides the opportunity to occupy administrative positions, these founding women would be afforded the chance to create a whole new set of traditions on Patterson Court.

Anyone who is interested or has questions regarding the fourth eating house may direct them to Claire Sisco or Hope Henry (x6572).

Pick one up at the office (Sat.-Mon.)

TIRED OF FLOWERS? BUT YOU STILL DON’T WANT TO BE ORIGINAL?

Buy your crush an orange-flavored, carbonated beverage all next week.

$1 — send a Crush® to your main squeeze
$1 — find out who’s stalking you
$3 — remain the anonymous donor of cola
Proceeds donated to Ada Jenkins Center
Come on! $1 and you can embarrass your roommates!

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 7 - 8 P.M., Morrison Room, COLLEGE UNION

Mr. Ralph W. Ketner — Entrepreneur

A presentation about the life of an entrepreneur: the rewards, the responsibilities, the headaches

Mr. Ralph Ketner, co-founder and chairman emeritus of Food Lion, Inc.

Hear the life experiences that led to the formation of Food Lion and its ultimate transformation into one of the leading grocery chains in America.

A nationally recognized entrepreneur, his radical ideas changed forever the grocery business.

Dinner at 6:00 in the Dupont Room; sign up at 321-G Chambers (seats are limited.)