THE DAVIDSONIAN

The problems with fear

I am a potential rapist. All men are potential rapists. At least, that is what I was told last Saturday. As part of our continuing coverage of events on this campus, from the Davidson Christmas Party to the recent Alcohol Awareness Week activities, we have always attempted to get reporters to write about the speeches and meetings that occur here. However, last Saturday, when we sent a reporter to cover the first of a series of Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes, part of Women’s Month, we were caught off guard by the fact that he was quickly removed from the meeting and told to have the editors send a woman in his place. To say the least, the reporter was slightly perturbed, and we were without a story.

Later that day, when the R.A.D. Class had finished, two students from the course came into the office to offer an explanation for the events that had occurred fewer than 30 minutes before. Being the only occupant of the Davidsonian office at the time, they naturally decided to talk to me concerning the incident. After a few minutes of explanation concerning the purpose of the class and of the material that was being taught, the main reasons for my reporter’s ejection were stated. The first was that the information that was being taught was to remain a private matter between the teachers and their instructors, for if rapists were to learn the various tactics, they would be a much more powerful adversary against a woman who was trying to defend herself. The second was that my reporter was a man, and that “all men are potential rapists.”

Now, being in the office alone, I decided the best response on my part would be to simply nod. I stated that I understood how this was a difficult situation for all parties involved and asked for the names of the officers who conducted the class so that my reporter could contact them for more information. With that settled, the two students left, and I continued with my work on the current issue. However, although I seemed happy, doing layout as usual, I was upset with the statement that I had become privy to: the statement that “all men are potential rapists.”

I’m not going to try to prove that this statement is false; that would be impossible. Quotes that involve words like “potential” or “possibility” seem to have the uncanny ability to always be true. With that kind of power, then, it seems that one should use a statement like “all men are potential rapists” only when it is beneficial to those who need to know it. Rather than being beneficial, though, this statement seems only to cause damage, mainly through the use of manipulating a woman’s fear.

According to a report done by the U.S. Department of Justice in February of 1997, “91% of the victims of rape and sexual assault were females. Nearly 99% of the offenders they described in single-victim incidents were male.” These figures alone would cause me to worry about the safety of every female friend or acquaintance whom I have. I can only assume that the fear that they have when it comes to looking at these numbers is much, much greater. But is that enough of a fear to cause women to be concerned for their safety, or is more necessary? That would be where a statement like “all men are potential rapists” comes into use. By playing off of the fear that already is part of the problem of rape, this statement tries to further the caution that women should have in their encounters with men. Women are to be even more skeptical of the intentions of any male they encounter; even a simple smile or the opening of a door should be a warning sign to the potential threat a man may be.

How does living in such fear actually help anyone? Does it not just cause someone’s reputation to automatically be thrown into the toilet, even prior to actually getting to know them? While everyone should be concerned with their own safety, when it comes to rape or other violent crimes, there should be a limit to the amount that fear will play in our decisions. Being fed slanderous statements to increase one’s fear of a certain type of person only causes both sides to lose in the end. The person who is living in fear will never trust the other involved, while the person who was unknowingly labeled can only attempt to gain a trust that has already been destroyed. The fear that people already have for a certain situation or event is enough to put them on guard. Augmenting that fear with slanderous generalities only harms those involved and in no way aids anyone.

Cand Baar

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

News Editor
SALLIE McMURRAY

Op-Ed Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Photo Editor
ERIN McKINLEY

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Sports Editors
DOUGLAS CUTTING
WHITNEY BLAKE

Copy Editors
BRATTON HOLMES
CINDY CLARK

Circulation Manager
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

ANNA ERICKSSON
MERRITT ABNEY
LYNSAY MADLEY

Sports Layout Editor
WILLIAM MORETZ

Advertising Managers
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
DAVID JOHNSTON
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
SCOTT REEDER

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Backing our pioneers

It’s official: In a flurry of positive-social-change karma, 60 females have signed up to pioneer a fourth eating house and are currently organizing themselves into Patterson Court’s newest addition. Good for them, right? Unfortunately, not everyone thinks so. The most common complaint seems to be that these women are abandoning their current eating houses. By moving to a new house — by founding a new house — these women are indicating dissatisfaction with the options currently available. Not only that, but they’re breaking the bonds that eating house members share; they are, in effect, severing the family ties. This separation process has been angrily attributed to a lack of house spirit almost akin to treason. “You're leaving us to join that house?”

Excuse me if I’m mistaken, but I thought all eating houses were equally respectable. At least, that’s what they told me at the beginning of last semester at a house meeting, when our Patterson Court leaders reminded eating house members that rushing was strictly prohibited. (Rushing was defined, basically, as making derogatory comments about any of the eating houses to which you do not belong, but also included commenting positively about your own house.) When asked, they instructed us to tell the freshmen that all of the eating houses were wonderful, and that they’d have positive experiences no matter where they joined. Has something changed?Since then? At what point does house spirit become more about exclusivity than about building bonds on the Court? Is the dreaded "e-word" that effectively barred sororities from students’ minds now skulking into our eating houses? House spirit does play a large role in forming bonds (and is a subset of the larger Davidson spirit, I would argue), but when women’s minds become closed to change simply to keep the family intact, what was spirit begins to border on elitism. That’s not what the Court is supposed to be about. The reason we are so proud of our self-selection system is exactly because our houses lack the restrictions on membership that mark (and mar) sororities at other schools. Admittedly, the existing eating houses will lose members, which is another concern that has been raised. But the population of the new house has to come from somewhere. And one of the reasons the fourth house is being established is because of the large populations in some of the eating houses (“overcrowding,” it’s called). The fourth house will provide women with the opportunity to get to know a smaller group of people more intimately, one of the goals of the now-defunct attempt to bring sororities on campus. The downside to losing members goes hand-in-hand with the family ties deal, but it also means a loss of revenue for the current houses—at least, in the short run. With fewer members, the houses will collect less in social dues and board bills (and whatever profit they glean from that). But with fewer consumers, it will become less costly to successfully run an eating house, and house incomes will be in balance once again.

Some males have opined that if a new house were to be formed, it should be either a co-ed house or a men’s eating house. Apparently, self-selection doesn’t work quite the same way for fraternities as it does for the eating houses, because despite the self-selection system that is touted for all Court houses, if men don’t receive a bid to a fraternity, they aren’t welcome. (Those who have given up the self-selection-for-men delusions have termed this the bid system.) Since the fraternities exist not-so-secretly outside of the self-selection system, shouldn’t men have one “real” eating house before women receive a fourth? The logic is there—but is the interest? The idea for a fourth eating house originated from the dire overcrowding within the existing women’s houses. At the current pace with which women are self-selecting, all three eating houses will be bursting at the seams before too long. The fourth house is designed to alleviate this problem. (And as was mentioned at a forum on the fourth house held earlier this semester, if enough interest in a co-ed house is shown, the Outpost could be converted to an eating house to fill those needs.)

Then there’s the equality factor: When it comes down to it, men’s houses still far outnumber the women’s houses. Men still have seven eating houses from which to choose (insofar as the bid system allows for choice), while women currently have only three. The fourth house will provide women with more choices when they self-select, which could act as a catalyst for more women to become involved in a house (any house). This would then benefit the entire Court.

Where does the BSC fit into all of this, though? A co-ed social and service organization (like the rest of the Court houses), the only thing the BSC does not offer that the other houses on the Court do is a meal plan. By discounting the BSC, we are overlooking a very positive option for being a part of the Court. Is this a viable option for someone who does not join a fraternity? Why aren't there meals there, and can that be changed? Do people want that to change? And would changing these things take away from the BSC’s identity?

“New” often equals “scary” in people’s minds. Maybe this is why so many seem to have reservations about this fourth house—and as a result, the women who are establishing it. It is just this fear (and the infamous lack of time) that oppresses the pioneering spirit. The initiative that these women have taken, the hours they have spent planning, and the commitment that they have shown, should be applauded, not criticized. That this eating house will soon exist concretely is proof that a few dedicated people can make a difference. Challenging the status quo is a tough road to hoe, as someone once said, and these women need our support. Let’s stand with them as they work to bring their ideas to fruition.

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.htm.

To Submit Letters to the Editors:
Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

1763 students, one dream

To the Editors:
We wanted to write a note to thank the Davidson fans for your support this season and especially this past weekend in Atlanta. The difference spirited fans make at a game is amazing. It is so exciting to have a championship Division I Basketball team at Davidson. This season, the players have really played with heart, and we thank the players for taking us all the way to the NCAA. It was a great opportunity to promote Davidson and let America know who we are. Davidson is the only college in the top 25 liberal arts schools to have 16 Division I sports, and opportunities such as this help prove that students do so much more than study here. Although we always presume every year will be an improvement on the previous one, the 1997-98 Wildcats season is definitely one to be proud of and remember. Friday night, the incredible spirit of the Wildcats’ chants filled the Georgia Dome, which holds more than 20 times our student body. Even more impressive was the example our fans set as they stood the entire game cheering the Wildcats on with clever, encouraging signs. We really appreciate your continued support, and we can’t wait until next season!

EVERY DAY IS A GREAT DAY TO BE A WILDCAT!

Mr. Cat, Miss Kitty, and the Cheerleaders

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS continued on page 10