THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

Baker Sports Complex is a $14 million project capable of accommodating 21 Division I college teams. The building has the capabilities of meeting the needs of a much larger university. It includes an Olympic-size pool with diving area, squash courts, six racquetball courts, two weight rooms, basketball courts, volleyball courts, wrestling rooms, as well as rooms for aerobic classes. The resources available to Davidson athletes are endless, and the school works hard to make Davidson’s Division I teams competitive with other colleges and universities.

Many aspects of Baker are available for non-athletes to take advantage of. Sophomore Emily Downs said, “I feel guilty, because part of the money my parents pay to Davidson is going towards athletics and I should take advantage of what is available to me.” What is available to non-athletes seems to be a question that is constantly debated. The building is open Monday through Thursday from 7:30 a.m. until 10 p.m. On Fridays, it is open from 7:30 a.m. until 6 p.m., and on weekends Baker is open from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. The building is for the use of all Davidson students, as well as faculty and staff.

Lap swim is provided during morning hours before the swim team’s practice, as well as in the evening. The six racquetball courts and the squash court are available to students at all times when the building is open. The weight room upstairs, equipped with some aerobic machines, is also available for students at all times when the building is open. The weight room downstairs is equipped with more free weights and is also open to non-athletes when a work-study student is on duty. Athletic teams generally use the weight room downstairs because it is more adaptive to their needs, while the weights upstairs are more suited for the general student body’s desires. Students also have the option of joining an aerobics class that is held during the week at 4:30 p.m. in the aerobics rooms downstairs in Baker. Numerous physical education classes, ranging from archery to waterskiing, are also available to Davidson students.

The Baker Sports Complex was designed in 1978 and was completed in 1988. Since the late ‘70s, the conception of what a great sports complex should be has changed drastically. In the late ‘70s and early ‘80s, racquetball was very popular, explaining the six racquetball courts in Baker. In the late ‘70s, the workout craze was in the stages of development and the future Rockies of the ‘80s had yet to hit the gyms. There was little workout equipment available during the period that Baker was designed. Baker Sports Complex provides a plethora of recreation for the needs of a college campus in the late ‘70s, but since then, much has changed. There has been an “astounding demand” for workout space in recent years, explained Bob Price, Director of Athletic Finance and Administration. The facility was also geared towards males in the late ‘70s because women were not generally included in athletics at that time. Price said, “The growth of women in general physical fitness is hard to keep up with.” Now, women flock to the fitness center, crowding it especially from three until six in the afternoons. The student fitness center was created in an existing racquetball court to help satisfy the demands of Davidson students. As equipment for working out improves, the demand for a better-equipped workout room heightens. There are two hidden rowing machines that are outside one of the racquetball courts downstairs that belong to the crew team, but are also for student use if unoccupied by a team member. If students find that they cannot use all the machines because it is too crowded, they might want to try to come earlier in the morning when the workout room is much quieter.

Some students feel that the number of machines is inadequate. Many Davidson students have turned to off-campus sites such as the Davidson YMCA for workout equipment. Sophomore Carrie Arthur said, “I feel frustrated because I cannot use a treadmill or a Stairmaster without waiting 20 minutes first. Once I finally get on the treadmill, I feel like I have to hurry and get off because so many other people are waiting.” Bob Price recognizes the need to update the workout facilities. If students make their wants known, Price said he would be “willing to accommodate” students’ needs. Price recognizes the demand for a better workout room — “Physical fitness is here to stay,” he said. There are plans to include a workout facility in the new Union. William Brown, College Union Director and Coordinator of Student Activities, said, “An exercise facility will be included in the new Union.” Plans for the new Union are still in progress. “The architects have significant work to do,” said Brown. A recent survey conducted by Jesse Smallwood found “36.5 percent (of students polled) who either wanted or strongly wanted exercise equipment in the new Union.” Trustees will be meeting with President Bobby Vagt on Oct. 1 to discuss funding for the new Union.

Both Price and Brown expressed an interest in knowing what students wanted in a workout room. Davidson prides itself in its emphasis on physical fitness. Price and Brown want feedback from students and hope students will make their wishes known.

Architect submits plans for new Student Union

By Burcin Harbin
Staff Writer

After ten years of surveys and committee meetings, schematic drawings for a new Davidson College Student Union in Johnston Gym have finally arrived. And while the schematic sketches for the renovation of the building are only preliminary designs, it is obvious that student needs will be the focus of the project. A new student union has been a project of the college for the last decade. Planning committees composed of students, faculty members,and members of the administration have been in discussion for years, but it wasn’t until two years ago that the Board of Trustees voted that a new student union be the next building project undertaken by the college. Now, with the imminent completion of the Life Sciences Building, a new union is the top priority on the college’s list of building improvements. An architectural firm from Pittsburgh was chosen for the enormous task of transforming Johnston Gym. The firm has experience in designing student unions, which was important to the college in their search for the right designers.

The architects first visited the campus in March 1998, listening to the ideas that the members of the community had for the new union. They returned a schematic design that calls for Johnston Gym to be gutted and divided into four levels with several atriums, multi-storied lobbies that extend several floors. Architects plan to utilize every square inch of the building, and compared to the interior work, alterations to the exterior of Johnston Gym will be minimal. What will make this building superior is what is inside. There will be many of the typical College Union establishments: a bookstore, a student post office, a poster shop, and a convenience store. However, the preliminary design includes a performing arts center, complete with a 600-seat state-of-the-art auditorium, a fitness center three times the size of the current workout spot in Baker, a cafe twice the size of the Union Cafe, an aerobics center, and an amphitheater. In addition to such amenities, there will be office space for student organizations, program space for speakers and presentations, and a room similar to the existing 900 Room for performances and gatherings. All of the Union’s administrative offices will be located in the new Union, along with the Davidson Outdoors office, the Chaplain’s office, and Career Services.

The design of the new Union “caters to a total student need,” says Dean of Students Tom Shandley. The new Union will be centrally located and be able to offer more because of its size. The layout will be in significant contrast to the design of the present Union. The new Union will be more open, with fewer partitions, giving students a better chance to note all the activities happening at the Union. According to the Union Director William Brown, the overall design concept is to create “an exciting hangout place.” It is obvious that one of the chief goals of the new Union will be to unite the campus. Brown comments that the existing Union is not the type of facility that has the potential to be the focus of social life on campus. One reason is that the building was designed as a library, not as a building to house the social life of a college campus. Secondly, the Grey College Union is on the fringe of the campus, not in a central location that is convenient to students. Also, Grey lacks certain essentials that make a student union attractive to students: there is no post office, no major dining service, not enough space to accommodate student organizations, and there is no great place just to hang out.

It is with this new Student Union that those problems will be corrected. The most prevalent idea about the new Union is that it will be a gathering place. Dean Shandley referred to the new Union as “a place for the [college] community to gather.” It will be a place for everyone to come together, have fun, share meals, and share ideas. The cafe to be included in the new Union could come to serve as a major dining service. Gradually, the new auditorium likely will replace Love Auditorium as an all-purpose performance space that will host speakers, touring companies, as well as Theater Department productions. Yet, the new Union will not attempt to compete with other facilities, such as Patterson Court, for students’ attention. The new Union will be a place to which students will want to come. Being a combination facility that includes not only a Student Union but also a performance space for the arts and a fitness center, the new Union definitely has the potential to lure every Davidson student through its doors. President Vagt asserts that the new Union “has the capacity to draw this community together in a way no other facility has.”

As plans for the Union move full speed ahead, college officials insist that it remains difficult to establish a date for the completion of the project. The conceptual design, which will be submitted to the Board of Trustees in October for approval, is merely a proposal by the architects based on what the college has said it wants for its new Union. It is only the first stage in a year-long process of design. Also, because the renovations will be funded exclusively by private donations, the results of fundraising efforts will define the project’s timeline. However, be assured that nobody involved in this project wants to delay the start of construction any more than what is necessary. Everyone is filled with enthusiasm for the project, and the excitement level is heightened with the arrival of the architects’ preliminary sketches, as they make the idea of a new Union a concrete reality.

---

Look forward to the future with confidence. Enroll in Army ROTC, an elective that's different from any other college course. Army ROTC offers hands-on training. Training that gives you experience and helps build confidence, character, and management skills. All the credentials employers look for. ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about five hours per week. It will put your life on a whole new course.

ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For details, call UNC-C Army ROTC at 547-2411

ONE COURSE THAT COULD CHANGE THE COURSE OF YOUR LIFE.