Che D

DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN

“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”

Winner sisnaivced: Sapp sucks.

bIDSO

ALBIN Di Asi deh Me Bolo ORAL BBR ALS

Your way, right away.
6d Student writers rewarded. Even he admits it, Liking “As You Like It.” Sloan’s tenth inning blast secures playoff spot.

Established 1914 NEWS 2, 4 OPINIONS 7 io 2 ee SPORTS 20

Cats head into postseason.

Bill Giduz

@ A few seniors readily smile for the camera before last Wednesday’s Spring Convocation in Love Auditorium.

THE 1998 TENURE DECISIONS

Faculty Members Receiving Tenure

Magdalena Maiz-Peña - Spanish
Pat Peroni - Biology
Donna Meh Dees

Faculty Members Not Receiving Tenure

Barbara Sina - History
Judith Bate - Russian

Omicron Delta Kappa Banquet

Recognizing Outstanding Members of Student Organizations
Thursday, Apr. 23, 1998

Organization Member Organization Member
Biology Society Ellen Rockwell ‘99 Jazz Ensemble Derek Kverno ‘00
Black Student Coalition Joy Sparks ‘98 Kappa Alpha Order Dave Kaul ‘99
Caterwauls Adam Brand ‘98 Photography Club Amber Worrell ‘01
College Republicans Jesse Smallwood ‘00 Matt Clifford ‘01
Concert Choir Abigail Showalter ‘98 Rachel Wippold ‘01
Connor Sara Rothermel ‘00 Premedical Society Porter Kelling ‘98
Dahn Hak Ji Hoon Hwang ‘00 Project Life Kate Stevens ‘98
Davidson Dance Troupe Kristina Taylor ‘98 Rusk arpa Megan O’Brien ‘00
The Davidsonian Bratton Holmes ‘98 Service Council Sakira Peay ‘98
Dean Rusk Caroline McGaughy ‘98 Student Government Association Tim Saintsing ‘98
Eumenean Society Greg Russell ‘98 Warner Hall Campbell Goodloe ‘00
Christina Thomas ‘98 Wind Ensemble Erika Rissing ‘98
Gospel Choir Shivonia Singleton ‘98

Davidson showers honors during Spring Convocation

Press Release
College Relations

Davidson College honored two prominent Charlotteans and many of its own students and faculty members at Spring Convocation on Wednesday,
Apr. 22. More than 50 individual students received academic, writing, athletic, leadership, and service awards, and dozens more were recognized
for recent induction into campus honor societies.

A highlight of the ceremony was the awarding of honorary degrees by President Bobby Vagt to Charlotteans Rolfe Neill and
M. Mellanay Delhom. Neill, who retired last December as publisher of the Charlotte Observer, received the Honorary Doctor of Laws
degree for his lifetime service to journalism. He held executive positions with the Charlotte News and Charlotte Observer from 1975-1997,
including the title of chairman and publisher of the Observer from 1986 through his retirement last December.

The College cited Neill as “an even-handed advocate of the many threads that are woven together to create the rich
fabric of our community, individuals rich and poor; organizations which enrich the soul and those which treat the broken spirit;
causes, popular and unpopular.”

Delhom received an Honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree for her support of the arts in Charlotte, and for being
“a world-class collector, a scholar and teacher who has inspired a whole generation of Charlotteans with the fascination of ceramics
and their place in history and culture.” She founded the Mint Museum’s Delhom Gallery and Institute for Study and Research
in Historical Pottery and Porcelain in 1967, basing the gallery on her personal collection of more than 2,000 pieces of
ceramics.

The College’s chapter of the Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) national leadership fraternity also cited a faculty member, staff member, and
community member for outstanding work.

The ODK Teaching Award was presented to Laurence S. “Larry” Cain, a professor and departmental chair of physics who has
taught both introductory and advanced courses at Davidson since 1978. He has also made a point of involving many physics
majors in his research programs “to let them see what it’s like to be a practicing physicist.” Those research projects
involve the measurement of the elastic, mechanical, optical, and defect properties of solids through the use of ultrasonic, spectroscopic, and
ionic conductivity techniques. He has presented his findings in professional journals and international conferences. Cain received his B.S. degree, magna
cum laude, from Wake Forest University, and earned his master’s and doctoral degrees in physics from the University of Virginia.

The ODK Staff Award was presented to Rosemary Turner, a nine-year college employee who greets countless students daily in her
duties as cashier in the College Union Café. The citation stated, “Her warmth and kindness have helped many adjust to
Davidson, and her willingness to befriend all has made her a beloved figure.”

The ODK Community Award was presented to Town Commissioner Bruce C. McMillen, an independent financial consultant. He was cited for
service and leadership in the community extending beyond his political office, for “bringing the community together in both times of
joy and times of sadness.”

BID PVOR TALS 6
1 C1 mi ES) GEN 6, 8, 10
C12.) 2251 CAB 4,
PARTS OL LA VIENG 11
3) 6) GIN 20

First Class Mail

U.S. Postage Paid

Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
