By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

First of all, I like the Spice Girls. In fact, I'd almost go so far as to say that I
love the Spice Girls — and dammit, I’m not afraid to admit it. Knowing this, it may come as less
of a shock that I trekked to Movies at the Lake this past Friday to see “Spice World” on its
opening night.

My evening began with a semi-lengthy pre-Spice fest at home, during which my friends and I all got into “the
mood” with beverages and “Romy and Michele’s High School Reunion” — the funniest chick flick since “Clueless,” if you ask
me. Around nine, the six of us piled into the spacious, surprisingly cushy Vamanos Van for the short ride to
Cornelius. By the time we’d had our tickets torn by the elderly usher who has created such high standards at
the Lake, run to the Ladies’ one last time, and filed into our seats in an order pleasing to most,
the Sea of Cola and Popcorn Volcanoes were already flying by on the screen. I settled back into my (stadium)
seat, preparing for the coming entertainment.

I should interject at this point that I didn’t have high expectations for “Spice World.” I mean, I love the
Spice Girls simply because of their vacuous lyrics and contrived personalities — for the very lameness that sets the teeth
of everyone but pre-pubescent girls (and certain post-pubescent guys) on edge. Despite my low expectations, however, I was prepared to
laugh at the Spice Girls until my spleen migrated. And laugh I did, sometimes to the point that the middle
schoolers occupying the row in front of us turned around to glare menacingly. (Obviously, to them the Spice Girls are
no laughing matter.)

Color me intoxicated — by Girl Power, of course — but I found almost everything in “Spice World” highly amusing.
The flick did, however, contain a few minor faults, the first being an attempt at a plot. The action (for
those with low thresholds of excitement) basically consisted of Scary, Baby, Posh, Sporty, and Slutty — I mean, Ginger —
Spice running around in scanty clothing (most of Ginger’s ensembles were limited to Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue-esque leotards) and shoes
even the most hard-core fashion maven wouldn’t be caught dead in. The girls alternately fight with their manager, help their
non-Spice friend as she labors to deliver a baby that has to be about six months old at birth, and
foil James Bond’s not-so-slick, far less attractive, evil twin as he attempts to “expose” the Spice Girls through a series
of airbrushed photos and quotes taken out of context: tabloid journalism at its sleaziest.

Let me ruin the ending for you: the Spice Girls make up with their manager, cause Evil Bond to realize
the errors of his ways, and spend just enough time with the half-grown “baby” before they careen off in their
double-decker Spicebus (which bears a remarkable resemblance to the Vamanos Van, by the way) and arrive, only slightly tardy, to
their first big live performance. What a shocker.

Like any bad movie trying for a degree of depth, there are a few subplots, including Evil Bond, the pregnant
friend, and an ill-conceived love affair between the girls’ manager and his mousy assistant, which apparently culminates with the two
engaging in a drunken one-night stand (off-screen, of course, so as not to actually add anything to the movie). Amidst
all of this meaningless maneuvering, though, is the real gem of the movie: the music. The Spice Chicks almost glow
as they prance around a small cafe and “improvise” the lyrics to “Wannabe” for what is apparently supposed to be
the first time. “Say You’ll Be There” and a few of the group’s lesser-known tunes (i.e., the five million other
songs that haven’t yet hit radio playlists) were also peppered artfully throughout.

The finale, of course, was the new Latino-esque “Spice Up Your Life,” sung during the girls’ very “first” concert at
the movie’s conclusion. Despite its low-IQ, accidental humor and psychotic energy, “Spice World” ultimately left me cold (though my friends
and I did irritate the Vamanos Van driver the whole way back with nerve-grating lower-class British accents, courtesy of the
Spice Girls). Now, four days after seeing the flick, very little that I didn’t make note of Friday night (with
pen and paper the moment I returned to my room) remains in my memory: the movie was, on the whole,
simply not memorable. Though I wouldn’t rule “Spice World” out for a fun, Friday-night flick, I wouldn’t necessarily pay the
newly-inflated student rate of $4.50 — plus the $2 round-trip Vamanos Van fare, if you really want to enjoy yourself
— to see it at the Lake, either. Rated PG.

Kanengiser thrills Hodson audience
By WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Momix, a creative seven-member team of dancer-illusionists, will present the third installment of the 1997-1998 Davidson College Artists Series on
Wednesday, Feb. 4. The 16-year-old dance theater troupe will perform their acclaimed choreographed show, entitled “Baseball.” The show was completed,
ironically, just prior to the August 1995 cancellation of the remainder of the Major League season.

Momix is masterminded by artistic director and founder Moses Pendleton, who also helped found Pilobolus, a dance ensemble which performed
in last year’s Artists Series.

In “Baseball,” Pendleton, according to Time Magazine, “revives the buoyant, untrammeled spirit of what playing and watching the game has
been and ought to be.” Pendleton, a lifelong Red Sox fan, seems to be the ultimate choice to have choreographed
a work of this nature. He strives to represent all aspects of the game, from its formative stages through the
present, with several scenes mocking obnoxious fan behavior. Momix is comprised of dancer/athletes DawnCargiulo, Sandy Chase, Celina Chaulvin, Kevin Kimple,
Suzanne Lampl, Cynthia Quinn, and Brian Simerson. Tickets for next Wednesday’s show cost $8 for general admission, $5 for students.

Guitarist gives one of the year’s most enthralling performances
By Wesley H. Gopsberry
Arts & Living Editor

The guitar, despite its overwhelming popularity among college students and adults alike, is less often associated with classical music than
the more mainstream instruments of the symphony orchestra. Wednesday night, guitarist William Kanengiser demonstrated guitar technique rarely found in popular
music, such as that of bands like Tool or the Pixies. Kanengiser’s two-hour performance before a packed Hodson audience featured
a variety of musical styles and genres, with the second half featuring “Music of the Caribbean.”

The first piece, Sonata in D Major by Santiago de Murcia (a native of Mexico), was believed to have been
written around 1732. From the first measure on, spectators were entranced with the girth of Kanengiser’s technical proficiency, his hands
effortlessly dancing about the frets. As many notes as he was able to play at one time, it seemed that
he must have had at least eight fingers on his right hand.

The “Six Balkan Miniatures (for World Peace)” by Dusan Bogdanovic were especially challenging, with one of the movements utilizing an
11-beat meter (as opposed to the more ubiquitous square or triple meters). Several of these miniatures, which did indeed leave
the audience pining away for world peace, incorporated percussive effects that included Kanengiser beating the face and end of the
guitar.

In what was debatably the apex of his performance, Kanengiser performed his own arrangement of Mozart’s famous Sonata in A
Major, K. 331. Originally written for keyboard, the guitarist was required to pluck four notes at a time throughout the
piece, and perform many melodic affectations that were never intended to have been played on guitar. The sonata was on
the edge of “playability,” as Kanengiser admitted, but he pulled it off with plenty of flair.

The remainder of the program consisted of tunes with a Caribbean flavor, featuring compositions by Manuel Ponce, Ernesto Garcia de
Leon, Ernesto Cordero, and Louis Gottschalk. Cordero’s “Dos Piezas Afro-Antillanas” featured several fascinating effects involving the use of harmonics. Although
everyone in the audience wouldn’t have thought it possible, Kanengiser did continue to outdo himself until the very last string
had been plucked. Gottschalk’s “Marcha de los Gibaros,” one of the last tunes that the guitarist performed, was the only
one in which he made observable mistakes. These were, of course, negligible errors and did not at all detract from
the crowd’s awe. Kanengiser performed a short Cuban piece for an encore.

William Kanengiser, in addition to his solo career, performs in the Los Angeles Guitar Quartet and is on faculty at
the University of Southern California. There he performed at a 1981 master class given by classical guitar great Andres Segovia.
He has also appeared in a motion picture, “Crossroads,” starring Ralph Macchio (of “Karate Kid” fame), in which he performed
the Turkish March from the Mozart sonata that he transcribed. Kanengiser has also made a few instructional videos for aspiring
classical guitarists. “Classical Guitar Mastery: William Kanengiser” can be purchased for the rock-bottom price of just $39.98. Kanengiser’s guitar recital
was undoubtedly one of the most entertaining of the year, and will likely be long remembered.

Coffeehouse. Doughnuts are 25 cents each. Even for the little Sweet Sixteen kind. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in 900 Room.

Yearbook picture retakes. You had your eyes closed again this year, didn't you? 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

McCormick Seminary. Check it out. 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Leaders Discuss. 11:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

Diversity Week. Selected event will ensue. 7:00-9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Play Scrabble. Hoard blanks and use all your letters for 50 extra points. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the
Outpost.

State of the School Address. Buster speaks. 8:15 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

21+ Beer on a Tuesday night? Why not? 10:00 p.m.-12:20 a.m. in the 900 Room.

D Week. More diverse stuff. 5:00-7:00 p.m. in the Home Room.

Meditation Class. Ommmmm. 5:30-6:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Eating Disorder Awareness. Said awareness to be found in the 900 Room from 7:00-9:00 p.m.

Anchors Away. For more information, contact the Union. 7:30-8:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

Monty Python’s: The Meaning of Life. Sperm is sacred. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

College Bowl. Because you know that the capital of Burkina Faso is Ouagadougou. 4:00-6:00 p.m. in Phi and Eu Halls.

Diversity Week. Continued. 6:00-9:00 p.m. at the Outpost.

Vladimir Pechatnov. Bring your balalaika. 7:30-9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Rape Awareness Meeting. 8:00-9:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Coffeehouse. Except it’s really just the 900 Room in disguise! 8:15-11:15 a.m. in Juan Valdez’s home away from home, the
900 Room.

FAC. Beer on a Friday afternoon? Why not? 4:30-5:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Chili Cook-Off. “This stuff’s made in New York City!” Today it’s being made in Davidson. 5:30-7:00 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Dennis Adrian. He's an art critic, and he criticizes art at the VAC from 7:00-8:30 p.m.

Monty Python’s: The Meaning of Life. It’s funny. Go see it. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Math competition. For more information, contact Ben Klein. 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Diversity Week. “Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent.” 1:00-5:00 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java. Nothing else is happening. Grab some free caffeine. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

F.L.A.G. Fashion Show. Second time’s a charm. 8:00-10:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

TJ Reddy Exhibit. Art exhibit. All day long, all week long. At the VAC.

Jumpin’ Java. Because those quesadillas need more time to digest. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

Live Monday. Live music on Monday. Free water available at the bar. 9:30 p.m.-12:00 a.m.
