THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1998

Baseball drops in SoCon standings with two losses to VMI

By Brian MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

The baseball team seems to have the habit of either raising or dropping their level of play based on their opponent. Last week, the Keydets of VMI rolled into town. Before Wednesday’s doubleheader, the team was optimistic about their chances of winning since VMI stood near the bottom of the conference at 5-11. Still, by week’s end, the team could only manage to take one out of three.

In Wednesday’s opener, VMI starter Wes Barrow turned in his performance of the year. He pitched a complete game shutout and yielded only three hits. It was only the second time this year that the Cats had been shut out. Barrow only allowed five runners on base all day. The three hits belonged to Ben Brown, Brian Joyce, and Luke Goodwin.

For Davidson, Ryan Stroker was on the mound. Stroker pitched rather well for the first five innings. He gave up three runs on six hits. After yielding three more in the top of the sixth, Jeff Case came in. Case had an extremely rare bad outing. He gave up four runs in just an inning of work. While the final was 11-0, the pitching staff had one bright spot in the performance of Garland Yarborough. Yarborough pitched a perfect inning with two strikeouts.

For the Keydets, centerfielder Ed Pearson and catcher Mike Goldman had strong performances. Pearson was unstoppable, going 5 for 5 with a homer and 4 RBIs. Goldman had two hits and 2 RBIs, including a home run.

The Wildcats fared much better in the second game as they won a tough come-from-behind 9-7 decision. The Keydets jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead when the hitting tandem of Pearson and Goldman continued to trouble Wildcat pitching. Pearson led off with a double, and he was driven home by a Goldman single.

The Cats then did something they couldn’t do in the first game, score a run. Ben Brown reached first on an error by the shortstop. When VMI pitcher Grayson Craun tried to pick Brown off, he threw the ball away. Brown advanced to third. He then scored when Mike DeSimone drove him home with a sacrifice fly.

VMI continued to hit Wildcat pitching hard in the second and third innings. The Keydets led off again with a double. This time it was second baseman Ben Bradford. He later scored on an Eric Walker single. Walker also scored to make the score 3-1 VMI. In the third, Scott Thompkins homered to centerfield, just beyond the reach of Luke Goodwin.

The Cats got back in the game in the bottom of the third. After Brian Joyce reached on a fielder’s choice, Luke Goodwin singled to left. Mike DeSimone was then hit by a pitch to load the bases. Stew Sloan stepped to the plate and hit the ball to centerfield in the air. What appeared to be a routine play was misplayed, and Sloan cleared the bases with a triple. He then scored on the same play when the relay throw hit him on the helmet and bounced away. Davidson was now up 5-4.

VMI quickly answered the next inning. After Pearson singled, Chris Brooks was hit by a Wes Self pitch. An excellent bunt by Chris Catanzaro gave the Cats only a play at first and both runners advanced. Coach Cooke then brought in Fritz Porter to replace starter Wes Self. After an intentional walk which loaded the bases, Porter came up big when he struck out Thompkins. Porter then lost some of his control as he walked the next two batters. The Cats left the inning down 6-5.

After scoring again in the fifth, VMI was up by two. To lead off the bottom of the fifth, Luke Goodwin hit his fourth home run of the year to cut the deficit to one. After the fourth inning, two Wildcat pitchers turned in clutch performances. Over the last three innings, the combination of Eric Bowers and Mike DeSimone allowed a combined one run on one hit. Bowers, the eventual winner, struck out two. These performances ensured that Davidson would be close the rest of the way.

Davidson seized the lead in the bottom of the sixth. VMI was now going with a new pitcher, Brannon Howle. Howle walked his first batter, Kurt Davis. Davis was forced out at second on a fielder’s choice, but the Cats continued to apply pressure.

Wildcats win one against UNCG

By Brian MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

First place UNC-Greensboro came into town on Spring Frolics weekend attempting to increase their lead in the Southern Conference. They entered the series with an 18-3 record in conference. The Wildcats were at the other end of the spectrum as they needed to win at least a game to stay in the driver’s seat to qualify for the postseason tournament. The Cats played well in all three games and did come away with a win.

In the first game, UNCG led 7-0 after four innings. The crucial inning was the top of the second when they scored four runs off Wildcat starter Fritz Porter. With the bases loaded and two outs, Marshall Tyler made an untimely error which kept the inning going. Afterwards, Porter seemed to lose his composure as he walked three consecutive batters. Porter, who is generally a reliever, still gave the Cats a decent outing. He went a full six innings, allowing the exhausted relievers to rest. All four runs given up in the second were unearned. Other than a homer given up in the third, Porter pitched rather well. Garland Yarborough and Mike DeSimone combined for three perfect innings in relief.

At the plate, the Davidson hitters were often stymied by Spartan starter Jonathan Jackson. Jackson improved his record to 4-3 as he held the Cats to one run on five hits in five innings. UNCG’s relief corps were just as able as their Davidson counterparts were. In the last four innings, Davidson managed only one hit. The UNCG pitchers combined for nine strikeouts. Brian Joyce had the best game.Offensively for the Cats, he had three hits. In the fifth inning, he produced Davidson’s only run. With two outs, he doubled home Kurt Davis. Davis, DeSimone, and Stew Sloan were the only other Davidson players to get hits.

The second game on Saturday was a nice change of pace for the Davidson fans. While the Cats have often had to rally for victories this season, they were in complete control of this game the entire afternoon. After surrendering the first run of the game, the Cats came back with three in the bottom of the second. UNCG pitcher walked Sloan to open the inning. Ryan Conaster then smacked a single to right field. Then Davis loaded the bases with a single. Freshman Mike Torres then had his most important hit as a collegiate player so far. He doubled down the right field line, scoring both Conaster and Sloan. A sacrifice hit by Ben Brown drove in Davis to complete the scoring.

Leading 3-2 as they started the bottom of the fifth, the Cats wanted some insurance against the dangerous UNCG lineup. Brown singled to lead things off. After Joyce moved Brown to second on a sacrifice hit, centerfielder Luke Goodwin singled. With first and third and one out, Goodwin stole second to take away the chance for a double play. With two outs, Sloan gave the Cats the insurance they needed by hitting a single to center. Singles followed off the bats of Conaster and Drew Williams. With one out, Brown advanced Williams to second on a single. Brian Joyce scored Williams and moved Brown to third on a single to right field. Ben Brown then scored the winning run on a very daring double steal. Brown stole home while Joyce went to second. With two outs, Mike DeSimone provided his own insurance as he scored Joyce on an RBI single.

While the Cats had hoped to win at least two against the Keydets, VMI had other plans when the two teams took the field on Thursday afternoon. These plans included some serious hitting as VMI exploded for eight runs in the first two innings. Several players did most of the damage for the Keydets. Ed Pearson had another strong game as he went 2 for 5. Robert Riley homered for the second time this year on his way to a 3 for 4 day. Chris Catanzaro added 3 RBIs, while Michael Landberg had two. For Davidson, Mike DeSimone homered for his team-leading seventh time. Freshman Jeremiah Parvin continued to hit well as he also homered. Luke Goodwin also had 2 RBIs when he doubled in the first inning. Whereas the starting pitching continued to struggle, both DeSimone and Case pitched well in relief again. DeSimone pitched two perfect innings, while Case gave up only two runs in almost six innings.

Davidson still has two crucial series left to determine whether they will travel to Charleston in early May.

Southern Conference Standings (through 4/19 games)

| Team | Conference | Overall |
|------|------------|---------|
| UNC-Greensboro | 20-4 | .833 | 32-15 | .681 |
| The Citadel | 16-5 | .762 | 25-20 | .545 |
| Western Carolina | 15-5 | .750 | 33-11 | .750 |
| Wofford | 9-8 | .529 | 13-25 | .342 |
| Furman | 10-11 | .476 | 17-23 | .425 |
| Georgia Southern | 8-13 | .381 | 16-23 | .410 |
| VMI | 7-14 | .333 | 14-32 | .304 |
| Davidson | 7-14 | .333 | 10-32 | .238 |
| Appalachian State | 6-14 | .300 | 12-24 | .333 |
| East Tennessee State | 5-15 | .250 | 15-26 | .366 |

Bowers got the win, and his record improved to 3-3. If Bowers can remain healthy, Davidson’s chances of succeeding in the Southern Conference greatly increase. At their best, the tandem of Wes Self and Bowers has proven hard to beat. While UNCG threatened in the last inning, Mike DeSimone was able to end the threat. The final out was made when DeSimone got Brandon Weber to fly out to right field. The final score was 7-5.

Davidson had to deal with both inclement weather and tough pitching on Sunday afternoon. In the end, the weather won when the game was stopped in the middle of the sixth inning. Unfortunately for Davidson, the game lasted long enough to be official as they lost 5-2. Davidson starter Ryan Stroker gave a good performance. He is pitching again with the confidence he had at the beginning of the year. His pitching nemesis for the day was Lance Surridge. Surridge was a formidable opponent. Surridge held the Cats to just four hits in the game. His only trouble really came in the first inning. Ben Brown led off the inning with a single. With one out, and both Brown and Brian Joyce in scoring position, Mike DeSimone singled Brown home. The Cats took a 2-0 lead when Joyce scored on a wild pitch. Other than a double by Jeremiah Parvin and another single by Brown, Surridge cruised the rest of the afternoon.

UNCG tied the game at two in the fourth. They claimed the lead for good in the fifth. Shortstop Brandon Weber singled to left to begin the inning. Weber then stole second and advanced to third on an error. He later scored. The Spartans scored their final two runs just before the skies opened up. The key hit came when first baseman Corey McDonald hit a bases-loaded single. UNCG added on one more when Weber walked in a run. With the downpour of rain, the game was called, and the Cats were forced to swallow another tough loss.

This weekend the Cats proved once again that they can hang with the class of the Southern Conference. They just need to pull together a solid series, instead of just one or two games. Still, if the Cats can continue to mature and recover from injuries, they could still prove to be a force this season.