THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1998

Filtering

First things first: a clarification. In my editorial last week, I attempted to criticize student apathy in dealing with women’s issues. I felt, and still feel, that Women’s Month (a national event, yes, I know) is in some ways pandering to a limited-time mentality instead of building the concept of every day as women’s day. My editorial was not, however, meant as a criticism of the Women’s Issues Committee, who do plan events year-round and work to raise awareness at all times, not just during March. Judging from the responses we’ve gotten, I didn’t make this distinction clear, and I’m sorry.

That said, I’m extraordinarily pleased with the liveliness of the Op-Ed pages lately. Remember that little “Apathy kills” thing in the middle of the Letters to the Editor section last semester (Sept. 8)? No more. Students have been opining furiously for the past couple of weeks, and not only about things that are wrong with our school, but occasionally even with things that are right. This is a happy thing — even when we (the editors) are taking some of the heat. That so many are willing to take a stand and put their thoughts out there for others to consider is the beginning (a continuation?) of this wonderful dialogue some of us call “Davidson.”

The professor who teaches one of my English classes encourages this kind of open discussion. In class, we often try to use literature as a filter for discussing the world, and more specifically, for discussing life at Davidson. (“Filtering”: think of it as an “excuse” or a safe way to talk about stuff that matters.) But filtering is not only occurring in classrooms. In this week’s theme living article, Dee Jordan said, “I think what we’re seeing now at Davidson... is a real, true discussion about race relations” (i.e., students are using theme halls as a filter through which to discuss the charged topic of race). Despite her subsequent misgivings that this may intertwine theme halls and race relations too closely, I see it as a positive sign of a developing dialogue.

Maybe we should filter more often. Or, now that we’ve started to get the hang of this open dialogue deal, maybe we should work to get ourselves to the point where we don’t even need filters. Imagine, hours and hours (not consecutive, perhaps) of unbridled dialogue about issues many of us won’t touch right now.

The subtitle of my above-mentioned English class is, “Is it broke? Can it be fixed?” This question is also an issue central to Davidson life that is, on good weeks, exemplified by The Davidsonian’s Op-Ed section. By airing concerns about theme halls — about race — and about our own views, be they on women’s issues or the rape potential of men, we are also guiding the perceived problems toward resolution. Only by attempting to identify the things that are “broke” can we hope to fix them.

Have an opinion. Write it down. Then, listen to each other. We'll see where it takes us.

Sarah E. Copclar
The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief:
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

News Editors:
LIZ NEIHEISEL
SALLIE McMURRAY

Photo Editor:
MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

Sports Editors:
BRATTON HOLMES
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

Business Manager:
CHLOE BROOKE

Arts & Living Editor:
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Sports Layout Editor:
WILLIAM MORETZ

Circulation Manager:
MERRITT ABNEY

Op-Ed Editor:
ERIN McKINLEY

Advertising Managers:
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS

Copy Editors:
DAVID JOHNSTON
ANNA ERICKSSON
WHITNEY BLAKE
SCOTT REEDER
LYNSAY MADLEY
CINDY CLARK

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

At a loss for words

It seems that every week, both Sarah and I climb up the stairs to the great “bully pulpit” — that is, The Davidsonian’s editorial page — and attempt to plant a seed in the consciousness of every reader. We do this in the hope that our ideas will germinate into some sort...of response, be it agreement or disagreement, a Letter to the Editor or just a casual-over-lunch-at-the-Commons conversation. However, sometimes we can’t find those seeds to plant, a temporary closing of the garden of controversial, opinionated ideas store, if you will. This, if you couldn’t already tell, would be one of those times. Other than the current occasion, there are definitely times when we find ourselves at a loss for words. While this doesn’t seem true when looking at this week’s Op-Ed section, as highlighted in Sarah’s editorial, anyone can name a number of instances where this is true. From attempting to put that perfect summary statement on your thesis paper to trying to ask that prospective girlfriend or boyfriend on a date, we all seem to forget the definition of all the important words in the English language sometimes. So, what am I exactly getting at? Well, to be frank, I really don’t know. When it comes to making conversation or to writing editorials, we are given a vast array of options from which to choose. Our argument or conversation can be brief or complex; it can involve intricate examples or simple explanations; it can be planned in advance or come straight from the heart. Often we try to choose certain paths that will create the perfect argument or conversation, depending, of course, upon the circumstances that surround either dialog-based intercourse. But how is it that we choose that path to take? Well, one could argue that we follow the path that would seem to have the best fit with the situation. If we were trying to place a small advertisement of about a square inch in a newspaper, we would be brief and get to the point in an attempt to get our point across in the minuscule space that we were allocated. (“This is my ad space.”) If we were trying to ask a girlfriend or a boyfriend to a movie, for example, we would ask them directly and honestly, from our hearts. Now, this path choice thing seems pretty simple, right? Well, here is where the complication comes into play. We all know what the best path would be, but it seems that there are certain paths that we follow more so because we are used to them. Call it the “tramped-down path” effect, if you will. People that have a masterful sense of the English language and enjoy big words like pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis, for example, often tend to be highly verbose, rather than simple and to the point. Those that have an affinity for planning ahead, be it an hour, a day, or a year in advance, the majority of those Type A personalities out there tend to have a problem with going into a conversation unprepared. Thus some of these planners try to script their comments in advance, in an attempt to get their feelings out correctly, rather than speak from their heart at the time of the conversation. With both of these cases, however, the underlying idea still prevails. They know exactly how they should go into a situation, but it is difficult for them to do so. This conflict, it seems, is the basis for the loss of words that we all experience. When we want to finish with that concise, clincher statement, but are wordy at heart, we can’t seem to write it correctly. When we want to express our feelings on the spot to someone, but would rather have had time to choose the perfect words with which to do so, we stumble aimlessly over our incoherent phrases. Is there a way to fix this problem? I don’t know. I mean, if there is, I really don’t know how to explain it; I just can’t seem to find the words.

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Connor House to sponsor silent auction Apr. 3

To the Editors:

Friday, Apr. 3, during the Spring Frolics activities on Richardson Field, Connor House will be sponsoring a silent service auction. Some of the services to be auctioned off include:
- 1 hour of psychology statistics tutoring
- a picnic at the Lake Campus
- a formal dinner
- car washing
- homemade cookies
- mix tapes
- and more!!

We encourage everyone to participate, as part of the proceeds will benefit the Ada Jenkins Center. The auction will be going on throughout the evening at the Connor booth on Richardson Field, so please stop by and bid as you frolic!

Thanks,
Alex Obregon ‘00 and Connor House