THE DAVIDSONIAN

I've completed a semester. I now know what to expect from this place. I’ve had experiences that make me more
knowledgeable and wise — well, at least according to a sign at the end of my hallway on First East
Belk. Written in smudged, black, dry erase marker, it proclaimed to all last Saturday when I arrived back on campus,
“Welcome back ... You’re all seasoned veterans.” Yeah, that’s right, I thought: seasoned veterans. Pride coursed through my body. I
am a Davidson student. I’ve made it through one term. Classes can no longer intimidate me. I can do anything.

I wish those last statements were true. I wish that I could convince myself, talk myself into believing them. Unfortunately,
I can’t. Unfortunately? Really? Is that so unfortunate? Toward the end of last semester, I put everything off, except survival
in my classes. Now, to me, that doesn’t seem so strange around here. But critiquing academic life is not the
point. The priorities I had set at the beginning of the semester mattered little at the end. I had to
do what I had to do to pass, to “make it through.” I justified this action — or relative inaction
— by saying that I would catch up with all of my projects and meet all of my goals second
semester, once I came back a “seasoned veteran,” with my feet securely on Davidson ground and my head, heart, and
mind focused in a different direction.

I hardly realized, as I continued to add activities to my “to do” list, that in my “blind ambition” I
had not considered my own limitations, nor had I factored in the need for sleep, nor had I taken into
account that there are only 24 hours in a day. I couldn't realistically accomplish all that I wanted to. Still,
at home, I rationalized... Although classes don’t get easier, I know now through experience what to expect, I told myself.
I won’t be trying to find a place in the “college community.” I won’t go through the same emotional upheaval
that I did first semester. I couldn’t wait to get back — to get started. I would have time. But
as the list grew, I failed to realize the enormity of the whole of which I wanted to accomplish. I
now find myself prioritizing again, crossing things off “the list.” I have to prioritize. I wish I had realized this
earlier, but realization was not important then.

Freshmen: You still have a lot of learning. A semester at Davidson may have tempered my idealism and may have
helped create a marginally more thoughtful young man, but I am by no means a “veteran.” It just took me
a semester of convincing myself of the opposite to come to the understanding that I don’t know and I didn’t
know. Each step I take here at Davidson further reveals to me the ignorance with which I took the last.
But I still want to know. I still want to accomplish. Is that enough? I hope so, for that is
all I have to offer.

Mr. Blue-Butted M&M Man

We are back. Semester break is over, new classes are starting, and all of our friends are right where we
want them: nearby. Eating lunch today with a friend who finished his exams in record time (and deserves all of
those good grades he gets), I was trying to explain about the guest on our hall who had relieved himself
in one of our hallmate’s sinks after my friend had departed for home. I remember when I came back from
dinner more than a month ago and heard the story first-hand, examined the evidence, and split something laughing. There was
no way to translate that into retellable emotions or feelings. So much of what we find enjoyable or sad can
only be experienced first-hand. Have you ever tried to explain to someone the sinfully funny part of a movie, and
then have your retelling fall flat because of a lack of timing, delivery, and the unnoticed details and context that
made the original so good? That was the way I felt trying to explain about that poor sink. Everything came
out flat and lifeless, hardly deserving of a chuckle, let alone the guffaws I had rewarded the sight with a
month previous. And this explanation was given to someone who knew where I was talking about and could go view
— at least the setting — for himself.

I finally started to understand why it was so difficult to tell my high school friends about some of the
experiences at college, and vice versa. Memories are made through experience. You have to be there to appreciate the full
humor, horror, beauty, or sadness of something. Even the greatest storyteller can only make you feel like you were there,
not like you experienced something. The spoken and the written word never have and never will be capable of that.
We have our memories and experiences, and they can only be shared with those who were there, if their full
effect is to be invoked. Because of the inadequacy and problems associated with trying to capture something in the retelling,
I don’t think that I will even attempt to try to explain to high school friends, parents, or relatives at
home about the Blue-Butted M&M Man. A giant, blue M&M, replete with letters and those big cartoon eyes so indicative
of intelligent candy, was in residence on our hall when I returned from break, perched atop the fire extinguisher case
in the middle of the hall, hefting a basketball, only a moment away from shooting. The little fellow rules our
hall, I nod to him whenever I pass, and he always seems to find his way into the most unrelated
conversations, especially when they are carried on in his presence.No one who hasn’t witnessed the phenomenon would believe it. Some
of you reading may think I’ve gone off the deep end a little, too. I can only urge you to
come up and see him now, while you have the chance. Come up to Third Little and experience a memory;
don’t leave it to someone like me to tell it to you, come up and make it a part of
yourself. Who knows, in 20 years we may meet somewhere and share a conspiratorial laugh about a memory that was
known only to those who were there.

Every once in a while, when I’m looking, a little piece of cold reality jumps out and surprises me. Since
I’ve been at Davidson, this has happened less frequently, as I’m often too preoccupied with my own life to meditate
on the events of the outside world. Over the past five weeks, one event in particular has struck my conscience.
I hope by relating this story you, too, will in some way be touched.

Going to church on Sunday morning has always been a family affair for the Neiheisels. It’s something we’ve been doing
together since the beginning of time and will continue to, forever and ever, Amen. It was always the joke at
our church that the Neiheisels could fill up a whole pew, yet not a single one of them could sing
in key.

So it was a special delight to visit my parents’ new church in Charleston, Agape Baptist Church, with all the
family members in tow. Our first visit all together was for the youth group’s Christmas pageant, and despite my mother’s
descriptions of the church, I couldn’t help but chuckle when I saw it — a random old building on a
busy street nestled between a laundromat and a Subway. The total membership of the church was fewer than 100, including
staff members. But the honest love and fellowship of the church was obvious as my brothers and I were warmly
greeted upon entering. We took our seats, filling a whole “pew” of neatly assembled chairs and sat quietly waiting for
the service to begin.

And then he appeared. His name was Mr. Oatman Gerald, though it had not always been so. His title at
birth, he confessed, was Oakman Gerald, “Like a big strong tree,” he said. But alas, in elementary school he could
not write a cursive “k,” so Oakman Gerald became Oatman Gerald, the only one in the world, he said. And
he was probably right. Mr. Gerald was an elderly man with wrinkled hands and an aging face. He stood in
his faded Sunday suit with a red silk rose attached to his lapel. His glasses sat perched on his nose,
hiding eyes full of life. He gave a firm handshake and asked each of us our names, first and last,
though our last name was obviously the same for all three children.

Mr. Gerald told us about himself. “Often,” he said, “they mix up my name, and address my mail to Gerald
Oatman instead of Oatman Gerald.” My brothers and I grinned. “Sometimes they just send two letters, and address them to
both names.” “Hopefully not with the bills,” my father joked. “Oh, no, they always get the bills right,” Mr. Gerald
said in a serious tone, obviously not recognizing the jest in my father’s comment.

I watched Mr. Gerald all through the service. He sat on a chair with a cushion in a plastic grocery
bag covering the hard wooden seat. Though we sang many carols that night, I never saw him join in. He
burped and groaned constantly throughout the service, catching the amusement of my older brother and me. He was a nice
old man who loved the Lord and his congregation.

Two nights ago Mr. Gerald stood up during the Sunday evening service and said a prayer for the youth in
the congregation — all ten or 12 of them. He prayed for their continued commitment to the church and for
a Christian example in their lives. And then, a day later, Mr. Gerald died of cancer. The prayer he gave
was a closing prayer, both for the service and for his life. It was time for him to go, and
he felt it. He will no longer suffer from the pain and agony of the cancer spread through his digestive
tract.

Through 18 years of life, I have never known anyone who has died — or known them well, at least.
I have two parents, four grandparents, three siblings, 28 aunts and uncles, and over 50 cousins, all in good health.
I am constantly amazed by this fact. But it was not Mr. Gerald’s death that touched me; rather his life.
In our ten minutes of conversation, it was obvious he was a spirited individual who had both loved and been
loved. His loss will be felt by that congregation.

It is very easy to get lost in the rat race of life, if you’ll forgive the cliché, and it’s
details like these that are too easily brushed aside. For me, the moral is simple, a reminder we all need
from time to time, especially here at Davidson: Sometimes you have to stop and smell the roses, even the silk
ones.
