_ AE DAVIDSONIAN.

Bobby Vagt, President

Bobby Vagt, who has developed a reputation during his first seven months in office as a people's president, maintains that
the recent layoffs do not violate his original pledge to Davidson. “People are the most important asset we have at
this college,” Vagt reiterated in his office last week. “We have gotten the recognition we have because of their qualities.

“I don’t think it goes back on the pledge at all,” he continued. “Our pledge is to have the very
finest institution in the country. We can only do that if we have sufficient funds for academic progress second to
none and the faculty that attracts the best students.

“And you can only do that with some modifications.”

Tom Shandley, Dean of Students

Dean of Students Tom Shandley expressed similar sentiments. “People do make the place,” Shandley said. “He (Vagt) doesn’t feel any
differently about that. We’ve tried to do this as humanely as we can. This has nothing to do with the
two officers who were affected. They have served this college well.

“I’d love to be in an organization where we never had to do this, but our economic circumstances forced us
to make some tough choices.”

Compiled by Michael J. Kruse

The “business” that is Davidson College

A Center major attempts to understand the recent cutbacks

Davidson College is a business, and we’re going to have to start managing it like one to keep our heads
above water. Or so the administration seems to think.

I am a Center major, and this whole issue has come to my attention recently because of a departmental announcement
made last week: as a part of the budget plan for this year, our secretary’s job is to be cut
from full-time status to part-time with no benefits. She’s not the only one, and some people on campus will lose
their jobs completely.

Not only is our secretary's job important to us (Center majors) because we care for her as a person, she
is vital to the functioning of the Center. The Center for Interdisciplinary Studies — the department with the highest GPA
and 26 majors who are all required to do a thesis — is run by two people: Dr. Bob Manning
(also a professor of Humanities and Physics) and our secretary. A part-time secretary will mean a step backwards for the
Center.

So you’re not a Center major — what does this mean for you? It means a lot. As I said,
we’re not the only department getting cuts. The “higher-ups” are focusing on decreasing the number of personnel as a means
to cut the costs of this school’s existence and tuition. Is it me, or is that the wrong place to
focus?

Even if you argue that Davidson is a business, the fact remains that its purpose is not to make money
— its purpose is to broaden our minds and give us a high-quality education. If we start cutting back in
areas vital to this purpose, we start burying Davidson.

I met with Dr. Robert Norfleet, Vice President for Business and Finance, last week. He said that these personnel cuts
were necessary because an institution should look at its area of highest expenditure if it wants to cut costs, and
personnel is our area of highest expenditure. That may work fine in the corporate world, but here our area of
highest expenditure makes up what we are. Norfleet was quick to assure me that other areas would be looked at.
Look harder.

We have a good endowment here; we are not destitute enough to start hacking away at the muscle. We need
to cut out the fat, not the muscle.Our core. As I said, cut the fat, not the muscle. But where’s
the fat? Don’t bother trying to come up with an answer for that one. Norfleet said, “I hope the students
aren’t entertaining the idea that the budget and finances of this school are any of their business, because it’s not
their business.” Well, it might not be our job, but it’s our business: Our money pays the bills. Norfleet’s main
concern was for the kids who want to come here every year and can’t because of the tuition — it’s
just too high. So he and others in the power positions here want to use this downsizing to lower it.
I’m sorry, but we’re already here; we’ve paid our $27,000, and as selfish as this may sound, we come first.
Don’t take away from our education to benefit people who aren’t even here. We are a school known for its
academic excellence and small-school environment. We're not supposed to be a number here; we’re supposed to count. If President Bobby
Vagt, Norfleet, and others start running this school like a corporation, we can kiss Davidson’s academic excellence and closely knit
environment goodbye. And we can kiss our school goodbye, because it won’t be Davidson College anymore. It'll be just another
place to get a degree.

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

A train wreck at Davidson

To the Editors:

It has been more than a week since my husband, Emory McLaurin, was involved in a train wreck. The engineer
of the train was a pen, the engine a piece of paper, the steam a human. I’m sure that, by
now, anyone who knows and cares realizes Emory is no longer at Davidson College. On Feb. 3, 1998, he was
hit full-force by the train’s engine. Yes, it ran right over him. He didn’t even see it coming. The bottom
line of my analogy: Emory’s position as Detective/Lieutenant was eliminated. “Heartbreaking” can’t begin to describe how both of us felt.
Maybe the impact would have been less devastating if the train’s light had been seen down the track, but it
wasn’t. I was with my husband when he grieved and cried over the passing of his dad, and I’m with
him now as he — as we — experience a pain and hurt almost as traumatic. His job of 12
years has been rewarding and, yes, even fun for Emory. How many people do you know who could say the
same thing? Can you? The main reason for my writing this letter is to ask, “Why?” Did someone, anyone, talk
with Emory before this happened? Scary thing, isn’t it? “To Protect and Serve.” I guess that doesn’t mean a great
deal anymore, does it? In closing, I'll say the pain, hurt, and total disbelief Emory and I feel will ease.
We have our faith in God, our family, and friends. We will survive. Thanks to those who know and love
Emory.

His loving wife,
Cynthia

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

News Layout Editor
MIKE GILLESPIE

Sports Editors
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Photo Editor
SALLIE McMURRAY

Copy Editors
DOUGLAS CUTTING
WHITNEY BLAKE
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
BRATTON HOLMES
CINDY CLARK
DAVID JOHNSTON
BRIAN MAYERHOFER
ANNA ERICKSSON
SCOTT REEDER
LYNSAY MADLEY

Op-Ed Editor
ERIN McKINLEY

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Manager
MERRITT ABNEY

Advertising Managers

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

This pull-out is the second in a series of in-depth reporting on events which shape and change our campus and
the greater Davidson Community. It is the goal of this publication to address the concerns of our loyal readers both
here in Davidson and around the world. Suggestions from students, faculty, townspeople, and alumni are welcomed, as are criticisms or
concerns. Please submit all correspondences to members of the editorial board at davidsonian@davidson.edu or through the address listed in the
text.
