THEDAVIDSONIAN

DCSO brings Beethoven to life
By Cary PHELPS
Guest Writer

With concerts in the last two weeks by the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, the Concert Choir, and the Chamber Singers, the musical ensembles at Davidson have once again given all of us in the community the privilege of hearing masterpieces of musical literature performed live. On Thursday, Apr. 9 at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium, the DCSO presented their Spring Concert with a performance of Mozart’s Horn Concerto No. 2, K. 417 and Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, Op. 67.

The concert began with the horn concerto featuring senior music major Erika Rissing. As conductor Richard Prior explained, a concerto involves a dialogue between the orchestra and the soloist, achieved through the conductor’s role as mediator. The piece was typical of Mozart, very straightforward and lyrical, and played beautifully by the orchestra. Erika’s intrinsic musicality was evident in her passionate performance, clearly demonstrating her potential for success at one of the several prestigious graduate schools at which she has been accepted in performance.

In paying a compliment to all the soloists who have performed with the orchestra, Dr. Prior said, “In my experience working with Davidson soloists, Erika was typical in her flawless and detailed preparation, her musicality, and her maturity of presence. Having watched her grow as a musician over the last four years, this performance marked the pinnacle of her undergraduate career.”

After intermission, the mood changed drastically with the tension and energy of Beethoven’s Fifth. The orchestra met the challenges of this hallmark piece with great success, especially that of stamina. Not only is the symphony a high-energy piece throughout, but there are also no extended solo passages to give the majority of the ensemble a break. When asked about the audience’s overwhelming familiarity with the opening motive, but the potential unfamiliarity with the entire symphony, Dr. Prior compared it to a chapter of a book. “People benefit from hearing the whole symphony just as they do from reading the whole book. It is terribly hard to understand context with just a chapter or just a theme.” And the orchestra did a great job of providing the audience with that context.

As the orchestra began, the auditorium was alive with energy upon hearing the infamous short-short-short-long motive that pervades the entire first movement. After the lyrical second movement, the ensemble, highlighted by the lower strings, built effectively throughout the third movement. But the ultimate moment came as the third movement led into the fourth (without the traditional break between movements). Here, the soft timpani strokes and tension-building violin phrases led without warning into the triumphant explosion of sound that marked the beginning of the fourth movement. It was the musical climax of the evening. People were moving in their seats at the overwhelming power of the moment and broke into rousing applause when the 45-minute work came to a close. It was a great success for the members of the orchestra, for Dr. Prior, and for the many members of the community who take such pleasure in hearing and witnessing the orchestra’s progress.

Agosin’s poetry reflects past injustices
By Sara GEBHARDT
Guest Writer

On Tuesday, Apr. 7, in the 900 Room, Chilean-Jewish author Marjorie Agosin performed bilingual poetry from her work “Dear Anne Frank” in the afternoon and then lectured on Latin American Jewish Autobiography and read from her work “A Cross and a Star: Memoirs of a Jewish Girl in Chile.”

A Chilean poet, prose writer, and human rights activist, Agosin’s writing focuses on the injustices caused by political repression and on the unhealed scars left by past wars and persecutions. Her tales often depict women who are immersed in their own private worlds as a means of surviving the horrors that surround them. She uses recurrent themes of femaleness, Jewishness, and Chile, and has written several works that concern the desaparecidos (“disappeared ones”) who were tortured and executed by the Augusto Pinochet dictatorship in Chile (1974-1990). Her works also include “Scraps of Life” (1987), “Women of Smoke” (1989), and “Happiness” (1991).

In her poetry performance, Agosin underlined the importance of justice and respect for humankind, and declared that the Holocaust was not just a Jewish event but that such suffering affects all of us. Her poetry directly addressed Anne Frank, who Agosin wants to remember as a heroine instead of a victim. Agosin discussed how there are many Anne Franks in the world, linking Anne Frank to all suffering children. She related the recent killing of the children in Arkansas, the Holocaust, and the United States’s slavery as historical moments of severe cruelty that killed many children and many childhood dreams.

In her lecture about “A Cross and a Star,” Agosin spoke on Jewish-Latin American literature. Latin American-Jewish literature exhibits the diversity of the Jewish population of Latin American nations. Especially in Argentina, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, and Peru, where the Jewish American populations are the largest because they approach one percent of the total population, the Jewish people have constructed a blended identity as they have integrated with other Jews throughout different stages of immigration. Tens of thousands of Jewish migrants and refugees escaped to Latin America at three crucial moments: after the late 15th-century expulsion of the Jews from Spain and Portugal, during the late 19th-century crisis of pogroms and famine in Eastern Europe, and at the time of the Holocaust.

In Agosin’s “A Cross and a Star,” she writes through her mother Frida Halpern’s autobiographical, adolescent voice and illustrates Frida’s struggle to reconcile her Jewish and Chilean backgrounds in the aftermath of the Holocaust. Agosin read fragments of her work, which depicts her family’s immigration from Eastern Europe to Chile and their settlement into Osorno, Chile, a region with a majority of German and Nazi immigrants, some poor natives, and three Jewish families. Her stories focused on the sensory imagery of the Chilean landscape and on the vision of discrimination as the narrator looked at portraits of Adolf Hitler throughout the town. Agosin’s talented writing and her passionate desire to make the world more humane and just made her visit to Davidson special and important. She touched the audience with her words, especially by first saying that she loved life and then declaring that we all need to fight for human rights.around and if you hold on tight to what you think is your thing you may find you’re missing all the rest.” —DM

Virgo (August 23 - September 21)
“Slip inside the eye