Rob Haeke
Senseless Acts of Hate
David Rosenberg
Sophomore Perspective

In all truth, a bigot did not write those words. I know who wrote it. Just some drunken kid who
thought he’d amuse his friends by disrespecting a public figure in a chilling way. He doesn’t wear a white robe
with a pointed cap. He doesn’t carry a noose in his left hand and a cross in his right. He
shops at J.Crew and dances on Patterson Court. He studies on the first floor of the library and when he
goes to the Outpost for a study break he orders a Chicken Caesar Bagel. He is not a fictitious character
dreamt up as a sociology project to study racial relations at Davidson. He is one of us, a smiling comrade
who upholds the same morals each of us calls Davidson standards.

Thank goodness he scribbled. It shows us where we are. One can argue that this is one insignificant case of
random racism. But ask any minority student, and they will tell you of at least one instance in which they
have felt discrimination because of their skin color. Go ahead, ask them. “One instance,” white students say, “It’s just one.”
But ask enough people and add one and one and one... That number soon becomes disgustingly large.

Many spoke at the Student Forum of demanding a full holiday for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. They also insisted
that the honor council insert a racial discrimination clause into the Code of Responsibility. It’s a start. These are both
arguments that we need to address and follow up. But it’s only a start. It does not accomplish more than
put a fancy prom dress on a dateless high school senior. It pretties her up a bit and makes her
feel good, but in the long run she finds she still can’t go to the party.

How can we deny that prejudices exist?

Debunking the DC Bubble

President Bobby Vagt:
“I think the clarion call to action was great - and I hope that those actions do not limit their
focus only to race, but extend to all those areas of inequity which may exist in this community... I hope
that our continuing conversation sensitizes all of us to the reality of these actions as well.”

Dean Ernest Jeffries:
“I challenge each member of this community to silence the doubter. Keep the discussion of race in the forefront... Hold
this institution and all members of the community accountable when it comes to diversity.”

Dean Tom Shandley:
“The discussions that have stemmed from the incident have restored a sense of community that had been damaged and affirmed
for some students that they truly belong here. But those are just first steps and can’t be forgotten as we
look inside and outside the classroom.”

When the only openly gay student on the Davidson campus withdrew his attendance because he found the social environment too
uncomfortable, why does this not embarrass us? Racial and sexual orientation discrimination are not things that we can dismiss. We
are cheating these students from their college experience. No student can possibly fathom what courage it must take to attend
a school with a majority of a different race. If one believes that he or she can imagine what courage
it takes, then I encourage them to enroll in a semester at Howard University and be one of 180 Caucasian
students in a university of 9,000. I encourage them to picture themselves there. Think about it.

This cannot be left untouched. The momentum from this incident must be used to inform the white population of Davidson
College that we do have a problem here and they are part of it. It takes an effort to change.
Students must understand and accept that racism exists here. Though the SGA-sponsored student forum last Tuesday was impressive and needed,
those who attended were not those who needed to. Those who attended were the concerned, not the ignorant. Mandatory programs
won’t do the changing and neither will the implication of a racism policy. The simple empathy, understanding, and recognition that
racism exists can bring about change.

Some might say that this is an insignificant practice of random prejudice and a senseless act of hatred. And it
just might be. But at the same token, it...is just that: a random act of prejudice and a senseless act
of hatred. This is not an issue that the nervous butterflies of SGA get strung up about and eventually dies
down. This is real. So are men with white robes and pointed caps. What they feel is real. Empathize.
Carrie Arthur
Sophomore Perspective

We, Davidson students, live in a protected bubble, a utopia of sorts, where we believe that the common ailments of
ordinary, real society do not affect us. Many of us have no clue about the events in the outside world.
When was the last time you read a newspaper or watched the news (however flawed it is)? Can anyone tell
me something about current events (not including political science majors) other than Clinton and Monica?

Unfortunately, real society and its problems do exist here. We are not immune to real problems despite our comforting claims
that “Davidson isn’t like that.” Although we pretend that Davidson is an ideal world in itself, these delusions cannot change
the reality of what Davidson is. Ignoring problems of superficial safety does not make them disappear; ignorance merely comforts us.
Bad things do happen at Davidson. Girls (and possibly guys) are raped, computers and bikes are stolen, and strangers do
come on campus with ill intentions from which the Honor Code or Code of Responsibility cannot protect us. Last year,
two police officers and one teenager died too close to our beloved school in the town of Davidson. Captain Stancil
of the Mecklenburg County Sheriff's Office gave his life in the line of duty this year. Just tonight, I heard
stories of people from off-campus chasing students, and last year when I went to Dance Davidson (in the town hall)
a strange man hung out by the exit and harassed students.

I wish that our vision of the ideal Davidson, where our only concerns were the selection at the Union Cafe
and the closing of Chambers, the VAC, and other buildings, were the real Davidson. Yes, our community is probably safer
and more honest than most. Similar to many people, I have a great Honor Code story where someone returned to
me a lost pearl earring two weeks after I lost it. I still leave my door unlocked, take reviews in
my room, and enjoy a library without detectors, but the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility which we follow do
not pertain to the outside world, a world which the College cannot escape. Not even every student follows these codes
all of the time (if everyone did, the world would be a better place).

The time has come for us to confront openly what is wrong with Davidson as well as what is right.
We should destroy the superficial image of a happy, cheery world because our feelings of superficial safety and comfort do
no good; they serve us an injustice. If we accept our actual environment, we will find it to be not
as horrible as it seems and we will be better prepared for it.

Solutions to Racial Friction

The same thing, let’s get down to the real issue at hand. I am young, white, and liberal. I have
little in common with Mr. Dylan Glenn, but that does not mean that I will...
