_ THE DAVIDSONIAN — In search of perfection

What a week. Instead of easing into the semester as usual, I’ve been hurled headlong into the academic pool - and I’m still not sure if there’s water in it. I never expected to be doing this much, this soon. I hate to say it, but it looks as if this is going to be a tough semester. Nonetheless, in my incessant (and sometimes borderline psychotic) optimism, I’m looking forward to spending a semester - or a year - at the top of the Davidsonian ladder. One could even call me excited.

Thus far, the flyers that gratuitously papered Chambers (and most of the other buildings on campus) announcing our general meeting are my pride and joy - especially the one with Bing. Wow, we did this, I think every time I see one. Soon I'll be able to say the same about entire issues of the Davidsonian. It just baffles the mind.

Like former Editor in Chief Michael Kruse, I have lofty goals for Randy’s and my reign of the Davidsonian. I want this paper to be better than it’s ever been; I want it to include a wide variety of writings by a large, devoted staff. We all have dreams, right? Unfortunately, neither Randy and I nor the rest of the current staff can wholly achieve this goal by ourselves. As many of you have probably observed, this week’s issue lacks a sports section - a dilemma we have diligently been working to resolve ever since we discovered our apparent lack of sports writers (and editors) at this semester's genesis.

This problem, I’ve come to realize, is beyond our control as Editors in Chief, for the solution lies in you - the students who help make the news. Randy and I can spend 96 hours a day in the office, but without a staff, we are nothing. We, the all-powerful Editors in Chief, are completely at your mercy. Granted, we did gain quite a few new writers at our general meeting, but we still lack a sports editor and a strong — or even shaky — staff. And I still find that the old “the more, the merrier” cliché holds true. So come. Join us. We need you, and believe it or not, you need us, too. As Randy is so fond of saying, “It looks so good on a resume.”

TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1998

New blood, new ideas, new paper

During my first semester here at Davidson, I have had the fortunate opportunity to amass a large group of adjectives to aid in the description of who I am. If you ask my hallmates, each one would be able to spout out a slew of nicknames, ranging from ones of collegiate derivation to those from places that cannot be mentioned in a school publication. If you ask friends of mine, they have often opted for phrases like “a nice/sweet guy,” “mildly amusing,” “a klutz,” or sometimes “meticulously organized (a.k.a. anal).” (The latter was probably the reason I got this job.) And if you look at my student profile, you’ll notice that it uses the word “freshman.”

Fairly recently, I have been able to add to my continually growing list with the title of Co-Editor in Chief of the Davidsonian, with which I have also been able to subtract from my already non-existent free time. However, while I have grown to accept the bulk of these descriptors in the faith that people would get an idea of who I am by knowing them, I do not think that people should take the current descriptions of the new staff of the Davidsonian on the same kind of terms.

Over the past week, I have watched a staff that was often called “too young,” “inexperienced,” or “incapable” demonstrate more drive and ambition than employees at major firms with whom I have worked in the past. Their dedication has been astounding. I am sure that, like many readers, you never look at the staff box. Just this once, take a look at it. Some of the names I assume you won’t recognize, either because they are freshmen - and thus new to Davidson - or because they have never worked on the editorial board, and are thus new to the idea of running a newspaper. Yet, even if you don’t notice the changes in our staff box that occur between certain issues, I am sure that you will notice changes in the Davidsonian, changes which will demonstrate that a group of “inexperienced” board members can create a Davidsonian that is even better than those from the past.

Couche BM @

LETTERS TO

Environmentalist to speak at Davidson

Dr. David Orr, chair of the Environmental Studies Program at Oberlin College and author of Environmental Literacy, will be giving a lecture this Thursday at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Union. His lecture is entitled “The Radicalism of Holism: Ecological Design and a Liberal Arts Education.” As a professor at a small liberal arts institution, Dr. Orr is familiar with the economic and academic constraints ofLaunching an environmental commitment at a school like Davidson, Dr. Orr is also aware that the destruction of our environment is far surpassing human means and efforts to preserve it. Widespread environmental education is necessary. As a liberal arts college that takes pride in both educational excellence and the development of community leaders, Davidson should be at the forefront of incorporating an environmental approach into its mission. It is necessary to establish a curriculum and demonstrate a lifestyle that prepares students to courageously confront this crisis both in and beyond Davidson. Dr. Orr offers a model for institutional change and individual development through his deep knowledge and commitment to environmental reform. I hope all students and staff will consider attending Dr. Orr’s lecture on Thursday. Currently, Davidson students can graduate without ever exploring their relationship to the earth and its resources. How can we make educated decisions about our future and the future of our children? The David Orr program is being sponsored by the departments of Biology, Economics, and English, in addition to the Public Lectures Committee, Reach Out, the Environmental Action Coalition, and Davidson Outdoors.

To the Editor:
Meredith Judy ‘99
Environmental Action Coalition

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editor: LIZ NEIHEISEL
Arts & Living Editor: WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Business Manager: CHLOE BROOKE
Asst. News Editor: MIKE GILLESPIE
Photo Editor: SALLIE McMURRAY
Circulation Manager: MERRITT ABNEY
Copy Editors: WHITNEY BLAKE, SCOTT REEDER, LYNSAY MADLEY, MICHELLE BOUGDANOS, ANNA ERIKSSON, DAVID JOHNSTON
Editors in Chief: SARAH OGDEN, RANDY SKATTUM

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”
Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

To the Editor:
Alternative Gift Market a success

On behalf of the Chapel Committee, we would like to thank the college community for their overwhelming support of the 1997 Alternative Gift Market. This year’s market was the most successful ever, raising $9,200 to be distributed to non-profit organizations in the U.S. and around the world. We would also like to thank the ten campus organizations, including Reach Out committees, fraternities, eating houses, and religious groups who donated their time, effort, and enthusiasm to the market. In their support of this tradition, the community of Davidson has once again demonstrated their commitment to peace-building initiatives around the world and in our own community. Thank you!

Elizabeth Malphurs ‘99
Pam Hockert ‘99
Rob Spach, Chaplain

Volunteer Fair to be held in Chambers Gallery

Dear Davidson students,

Welcome back from vacations, semesters elsewhere, and experiences of all kinds. I have chosen this medium to discuss your potential involvement in community service work in our surrounding community. Now, I am sure many of you have heard about “service” through home life, new student orientation, campus life, religious life, and so on, and I am sure many of you have participated in “service.” Now, I know many of you are able to go out once a month or a few times a semester, and oftentimes this is helpful. However, my belief is that the kind of work that requires compromise, commitment of energy, and the formation of relationships, the kind of work that is ongoing and deliberate, is the kind that truly transforms and improves the conditions of communities. My proposition, my suggestion, is that each of you consider deeply and sincerely the value of working in the surrounding community. I am asking you to make time to work with different types of people, to reach out and learn about how and why other people live, and to work side by side with others who must overcome significant obstacles to find meaningful peace, comfort, and community in their lives. I am asking this for two reasons: 1) so that Davidson students will learn through experience in this community; and 2) so that we may begin to identify, discuss, and dissolve the inequalities and injustices present in the surrounding community. On Wednesday, Jan. 21 from 11:00 am to 3:00 pm, the Community Service Office, along with many community organizations and service groups on campus, will hold a Volunteer Fair in Chambers Gallery. Please come to this Volunteer Fair, and please consider making a lasting commitment to work and build relationships in our surrounding community. I believe that Davidson students and college students in general need to grapple with humbling experiences that engage the heart and mind. I invite each student at Davidson College to make a strong and lasting personal commitment to work in the surrounding community with the hope that similar commitments will follow throughout your lives.

In the spirit of community and humanity,
Bill Abrams
Community Service Coordinator

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR continued on page 10

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to editors in chief Sarah Ogden or Randy Skattum at davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably in WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space requirements mandate.