I didn’t get it. I signed the attendance sheet, sat in Love Auditorium for an hour, listened very carefully and
tried so hard to understand, but I came out of Nancy Hunter Denney’s speech feeling motivated only to take an
aspirin. Denney’s lecture, a mandatory event for all new PCC members, was one of the most mind-numbing experiences of my
life. More about gimmick and less about message, this unmotivational speech left my ears ringing and my intelligence insulted.

I (and I know many of my peers would agree) did not appreciate being talked at like a second-grader or
being inundated with pointless anecdotes about two children whom I never care to meet. At this point in my review,
I would probably state the focus of Denney’s presentation, but to be honest, I just don’t know what it was.
Her lecture consisted of stories about her children, her college experiences, and lame attempts at audience involvement. Her tales of
the capers of her two children, Caitlin and Jake, simply were not endearing. A prime example: the BAM story. Denney
talked about how one discovery by her son would lead to another, such as BAM! If you smash ants, they
die, and BAM! If you watch the ball in Little League, you might hit it. Unfortunately, despite my thorough analysis
of her six-year-old’s brilliant theory, I have yet to make the connection as to how it applies to my life
at Davidson.

Denney had other insights about improving my attitude toward college life. “Best four years of your life? I don’t think
so,” was her oft-repeated mantra. I understand that she does not want us to have unrealistic expectations of our college
experience, and I am sorry that her freshman roommate hooked up with her boyfriend, but her attitude is entirely too
pessimistic. Why spend thousands of dollars at college when all I will remember 15 years later is how much it
sucked? So, after my Wildcat enthusiasm had been crushed, Denney went on to shout insults at me. Instead of attempting
to relate to her audience, she focused on preconceived notions of what we, the “future” as she said, are really
like. We are, among other things, slouchy, listless, and inattentive.

After selecting five volunteers to back her in these allegations, she played a game to “cut their energy fields” that
was supposed to perk up the audience, I guess. The audience got to play, too! Perhaps this mystical “energy field”
is a metaphor for our motivation. I am not sure, however. I didn’t really get to play the game because
my friends were curled in little balls, asleep on either side of me, while my roommate chucked snap-pops at a
girl down our row. So much for an energy field. We did get to play Simon Says, though. I have
always excelled at Simon Says, so this game was really what I considered the redeeming feature of Denney’s presentation. Also,
she did address that one question that has kept me awake at night since preschool: Who is this Simon, really?
And why do I care what he says? Maybe I am just bitter because she tricked me and I lost.
Another dream destroyed.

Thus, allow me to summarize the effects of this motivational speech on my person. As a bored, inattentive, and slumping
student, I will spend another three and a half years here that won't really be much fun, but I darn
well better study because I can forget about those aspirations for going pro with Simon Says.

Querida Profesora Maiz-Peña,

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS @

An open letter to Professor Magdalena Maiz-Peña

We, the undersigned, wish to express our gratitudeFor the impact you have had on our lives. The Spanish department’s vote
to not recommend your award of faculty tenure is incongruent with your professional record and our experience with you. We
support, without reservation, your candidature for a permanent position as our role model at Davidson College. Each of us can
provide individual evidence of the dramatic effect that you have had in our lives and in our attitude towards education.
Your contagious enthusiasm for learning has infected each of us, on every occasion leaving us curious and thirsty for further
study in the topics you cover. Your attitude towards our education has, in fact, changed our outlook on undergraduate education
in the liberal arts. Among us are students who took up Spanish at Davidson to fulfill a requirement and now
pursue it as a major course of study. Your deep interest in each of our lives and those of many
others is singular. We have witnessed excellence within and outside of your classroom that conforms to the highest standards of
Davidson College. We are touched by your work in a way that unfortunately defies our ability with the written word.
The self-esteem, desire to learn, and ability to further educate ourselves—long after Davidson—that you have instilled in each of us
is the reason that we esteem you to be one of the single finest educators we have ever encountered. We
implore that you not be disheartened by this speed bump in your tenure review process. In fact, we believe that
those who oppose your candidature call into question not your professionalism but their own. We pray that the Faculty Tenure
Committee, Dean Williams, President Vagt, and the Board of Trustees seek truth in evaluating your work. Please accept our gratitude
for your generous, thoughtful, vigorous, and selfless commitment to our education and personal growth.

Chase Keith
Sara Gebhardt
Margaret Hoover
Jason T. McMullan
Jamie M. Kleinman
Jessica M. Bigazzi
Abigail K. Showalter
Beth McCorkle
Elizabeth Parker
Mary Kathryn Lee
Jenny Noller
Anne Stancil
Kim Ceci
Ana Rosa Garcia de la Torre
Alexandra Obregon
Margaret Carolla
Megan Seifert
Cari Lentzsch
Wrenn Martin
Etta Dixon
MeeSun Sim
Amy M. Smith
Whitney Blake
Brenda Bondesen
Kelly Carter
Rosalie Esteves
Elizabeth Brantley
Donna Gribble
Jessica Diliberti
Ashley Smith
Rebecca McLaughlin
Lauren Cayton
Christie Ann Lancaster
Thirza Sayers
Ann Strauser
Erin Woodall
Ashley Houston
Beth Creswell
Liz Hackman
Lori Thompson
Laura Shearon
Caro Thomas
Grayson Carter
Deya Murray
Katie Crane
Whitney Frazier
Lea Jaeger
Jennie Gold
Mindy McGehee
Lindsay Meyers
Sarah Fulkerson
Kaky McGinness
Eleanor Cross
Taylor Linchan
Julia Bangert
Emily Carmody
Eugenia Leath
Aguil Deng
Kate Stevens
Christa Conner
Gina Mooney
Cara Turano
Lanier McRee
Lynn Shevory
Hilary Shea
Ellen Stilz
Andrew C. Sicora
Campbell Goodloe
Lisa Holthaus
Marian Lucius
Melanie Majure
Ann Colter Hosch
Katie Tobin
Kristin Russo
Rebecca Latanich
Emily Setina
Elizabeth Field
Jason Prince
Will Bradshaw
Kate Feldmeier
Mike Ferber
Katherine I. Davis
Danielle Mall
Julie Chevalier
Nicole Kanaar
Mollie Morton
Lantie Ferguson
Caroline Hubbell
Eliza Shuford
Avery Cook
Tuyet Linh Tran
Amy Marks
Kendra Luss
Adrienne Emmett
Sara Jane Spivey
Amy E. Jones
Gina Strangis
Sara Holden
Vaishali Gupta
Elissa Weddle
Hope Henry
Katherine Gilbert
Allison Moore
Kim Shuey
Heather Brown
Lois Ann Bumgarner
Amy Biber
Cindy Seegers
Meredith Moseley
Carrie Sloan
Becky Bergner
Stephanie Kohler
Rebecca Niemitz
Monica Martinez
Lindsay Vagt
Amber Worrell
Lisa Senneff
Lindsay Gibson
Bonner Mead
Jennifer Howard
Amy Whitmire
Lindsay Cohen
Adam Brand
Joy M. Sparks
Shivonia Singleton
Brooke Bagwell
Jake Fischer
Claire Cheatwood
Thomas McElveen
Marie Sharp
Allen Lee
Aquila Jehan Shamsid-Deen
Molly Allan
Daniel Motz
Ann Harriott Fisher
Christ Tuttle
Mitch Shores
Fred T. Lowrance, Jr.
Foster Haselden
Sara Straus
Michael C. Brady
Dane Erickson
Joe Hayworth
Kate Schoening
Emily Rickers
Matthew Hobbie
Kimberly Taylor
Lori Clark
Daniel Baker
Matt Shade
Erica Thorson
Leah Waits
Kim Hauch
Hallie Pitkin
Amy K. Lamoureux
Christina S. Thomas
Jessica Goodson
Kelly Ferebee
Nan Morefield
Anabelle R. Carr
Judson Sutherland
Erica Thomas
Mary Bennett Sharp
Molly Devine
Sarah Pentz
Zhenya Arutyunyan
