THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALISON KALETZKY
Sports Editor

The Lady Wildcats soccer team is definitely moving in the right direction. With three consecutive victories, it hardly resembles the
team that just last week was staring at a 1-5 overall record. In the span of six days, Davidson turned
their season around, defeating Campbell College and Southern Conference rivals Appalachian State University and The College of Charleston. The Wildcats
now stand at 4-5 overall and 2-2 in the conference.

The Wildcats' 1-0 victory over Campbell (1-4) does not reflect Davidson’s utter domination of the contest. The Wildcats outshot their
rivals 20 to 5. Senior midfielder Rhina Roberts and Freshman midfielder Carolyn Stumpf each had four shots on goal, leading
the Wildcats' offensive attack. Although the Wildcats were able to get shots off, they were not able to put the
ball in the net until the 61st minute of the contest. Finally, at 60:41 into the game, Roberts, a senior
co-captain from Washington D.C., accepted a pass from Stumpf and scored the Wildcats' lone goal of the game. The goal
was Roberts’ third of the season, equaling her total for all of 1997.

Unfortunately for the Wildcats, Roberts’ goal came at a price. While attempting what would prove to be the winning goal,
Roberts collided with Campbell goalkeeper Connie Ferguson, and both players had to be carried off the field with knee injuries.
Roberts’ exact injury is unknown.

Next on the agenda for the Wildcats were conference rivals Appalachian State (4-5, 1-1). Last season, the Wildcats fought the
Mountaineers to a scoreless tie, but this time around the Wildcats emerged with a 1-0 victory. The Wildcats and the
Mountaineers were locked in a scoreless battle for over 85 minutes and appeared to be headed for sudden death overtime
until Sophomore midfielder Carrie Porath one-timed a goal past App. St. goaltender Bevin Luna with 3 minutes and 40 seconds
remaining. The goal, which was Porath’s first of the season as well as the first of her collegiate career, came
after a corner kick by Junior Amy Balsinger bounced off two App. St. players, giving Porath the opportunity to place
the ball in the upper right-hand corner for the game-winning goal.

Coach Hundley was thrilled with the victory and with Porath’s contribution. “This win is a great boost to our morale,”
Hundley said. “We’ve had more than our share of injuries this season already, and we’re going to have players getting
more playing time than expected. We needed someone to step up and give us a shot in the arm, and
Carrie provided it.”

The injuries that Hundley is referring to include not only Roberts, who suffered a knee injury in the Campbell game,
but also junior Natalie Stumpf, the sister of freshman standout Carolyn Stumpf. Natalie Stumpf suffered a severe knee injury, possibly
a torn ACL, late in the second half.

Finally, on Sunday afternoon, the Lady Wildcats made it a perfect week when they took out yet another Southern Conference
foe—the College of Charleston. Davidson defeated Charleston (2-7, 1-3) 3-0. The victory was largely due to the play of Junior
forward Ginny Dye. Dye scored the first Davidson goal and assisted on the next two, which were scored by freshmen
Natalie Cox and Carolyn Stumpf. Dye’s goal came 13:09 into the match when she successfully kicked a loose ball past
Charleston goalkeeper Seana Patrick. Then, about 15 minutes later, she assisted Cox, who gave the Wildcats a 2-0 lead heading
into the second half. In the second period, Dye continued her solid play, this time assisting Stumpf with her fourth
goal of the season. Stumpf’s score came at 59:39 remaining and secured Davidson’s third consecutive victory.

The final statistics tell the story of the game as the Wildcats outshot Charleston 21 to 4. Not to be
forgotten in Davidson’s victories is the outstanding play of the defense. The Wildcats did not surrender a single goal in
all three games and held their opponents to a combined 16 shots on goal. For all three games, Coach Hundley
split the goaltending responsibilities between sophomore Winnie Corrigan and junior Chesley Garrett. Both keepers had outstanding performances. Over the three
matches, both Corrigan and Garrett had 5 total saves. The two goalies have not allowed a goal since Sep. 19th.
The Wildcats will attempt to even their overall record at 5-5 and improve their conference standing to 3-2 at Southern
Conference rival Wofford on Wed. Sep. 30th at 7 pm.

Volleyball loses a heartbreaker in five games

By Seth Davis
Staff Writer

The volleyball match on September 27th between the Davidson Wildcats and the Chattanooga Mocs was a dogged and uncompromising fight.
The match lasted five games and neither team ever showed signs of giving up. Entering into the match, the top
two places in the Southern Conference were occupied by Chattanooga and Davidson, with both teams ready to take the floor.
The long match would end with a 3-2 Chattanooga win.

Game one saw the Mocs open aggressively. The Wildcats came out with a changed lineup, with Katherine Lorenz starting for
Jennifer Ortega. The first point of the game was scored by the Mocs. The Wildcats tied on a service ace
by Janet Duncan. The Mocs, behind some solid individual play, stretched out to an 8-2 lead. A sideout gave the
serve to the Wildcats at 8-2. With Janet Duncan serving, Jennifer Ortega’s spike won a point for the Wildcats. The
game moved forward with the serve exchanging hands until the gap between the Mocs and the Wildcats was 9-5. After
a sideout, the Mocs went on a four-point run. At 13-5, the Wildcats turned the flow of the game around
and scored seven straight unanswered points behind the service games of Mara Mordini.and Janet Duncan. At 13-12, the Mocs got
a sideout and scored two to end the Wildcats' run and the first game at 15-12. The second game started
with Erica Schwartz serving. After the Wildcats struck first with a point, the Mocs won the serve. They lost it
quickly, and the Wildcats extended their early lead to 4-0. A series of sideouts followed in which both teams struggled
to hold serve. Eventually, the Wildcats took a 7-1 lead with Erica Schwartz’s service ace. The game stood at 9-3
when the Mocs rallied. Five straight points brought the score to 9-8. A Wildcat response led to an 11-8 score.
The game stayed close, however, and both teams were knotted at 12-12 when the Wildcats finished the job. On a
kill by Mara Mordini, game two ended at 15-12.

The beginning of game three saw a strong effort by both teams on an extended volley. The Wildcats scored quickly
and often, but the Mocs kept pace so that the game was tied at 6-6 when Wildcat Head Coach Lisa
Marston called a timeout. The Mocs then took a two-point lead, which the Wildcats met. Another two-point spread opened between
the two teams. Once again, the Wildcats tied the game. At 10-10, the Mocs pulled away to game point. At
14-10, the Wildcats were able to stage a mini-rally and pull within two. They would stay there, however, and the
Mocs won game three at 15-12.

Game four was entirely the Wildcats’ game. With the Mocs serving during the early portion of the game, the Wildcats
showed great effort on an extended volley that ended in a sideout. Later in the game, with the score tied
5-5, the Wildcats took complete control. On the strength of another long volley and some strong blocks, the Wildcats extended
their lead to 9-5. At this point in the game, after a sideout, Jennifer Ortega served. The Wildcats scored again,
broadening the gap to five between the two teams. The Mocs would only score one more while the Wildcats won
the game handily 15-6.

The match moved onto game five. The fifth game of college volleyball matches is called the rally game. In this
format, a team does not have to control the serve to score a point. The Wildcats struck first in the
final game, but the day would not be theirs. The game moved back and forth, with the Mocs hammering out
a win 15-9. The Wildcats played well as a whole, but Head Coach Lisa Marston would like to see her
team “finish better.” Her words were echoed by Jennifer Ortega, who hopes that in future matches the Wildcats can keep
“a constant intensity level throughout all five games.” The Wildcats’ next game is at South Carolina on September 30 at
7 pm.

Home trails prove advantageous for Men’s Cross Country
By Kerr Gordon
Staff Writer

With the initial meet of the 1998 campaign behind them, the men’s cross-country team had an early sense that this
could be a great year. Last weekend’s home meet only intensified the optimism of this breakthrough season. Led by an
inspired race from Brent Ferrell, the men finished fourth out of nine teams at the Davidson Open/Pre-conference meet held September
19. The Cats scored 93 points, sneaking ahead of perennial rival Furman by five points. Appalachian State won the Open
with 58 points, with Western Carolina taking second (69 points) and ETSU finishing third (73). All but three conference teams—UNCG,
Wofford, and UTC—were present.

Ferrell ran the fastest time ever by a Wildcat harrier on the Davidson 8K course (26:26), coming from behind in
the last two miles to finish third overall. Ferrell continued his dominant season and solidified his standing as an early
pick on the ‘98 All-Conference Team. Senior Josh Cookson ran a 27:10 and placed 14th overall, continuing his return from
a redshirt season last year. The Junior triumvirate of Pat Burchett (27:54), William Isenhour (28:18), and Thomas McElveen (28:46) finished
24th, 32nd, and 35th respectively to round out the top 5 scoring runners. The consistency of this top 5 will
hopefully maintain its improvement, not only individually but as a whole, while leading the team during the season.

Derek Murphy of ETSU (from Ireland and the 1995 Southern Conference Champion) won the meet in 26:02, which is currently
the third fastest time in the conference this year. Co-Captains Josh Cookson and Keith Gordon echoed the team’s feeling about
the weekend’s performance. “The team was extremely happy. We are running well early, indicative of the great amount of potential
on this team.” Gordon added, “The home meet was a showcase of only how good we can be. We did
beat some teams that we had never beat before in competition, but there is still obviously room for improvement as
Furman was only a few points behind.”

Freshman standout Dan Gibson ran 28:29 in his first collegiate race, placing 36th overall. Senior Keith Gordon (28:44) outdueled teammate
Scott Hutchins (28:45) down the final stretch as they finished 44th and 45th to complete the team’s top 7. Junior
Steve Johnston finished just behind in 47th, turning in a PR (personal record) time of 28:50. Also competing for the
men were Victor Talbird (29:29, 66th), freshman Jay Jahnes (29:53, 72nd), Joel Hanisek (30:27, 80th), Jonathan Fly (31:00), Keith Chapman
(31:04), Paul Irwin (31:18), and Davey Bacon (31:34).

Next weekend, the men travel to the prestigious Paul Short Invitational at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, PA. As the meet
is celebrating its 25th anniversary, many of the great northeastern Division I teams (including many of the Ivy teams and
some Top 25 teams) will be represented. Cookson noted, “This will be a great experience and opportunity to run against
great competition.” As the conference championships loom even closer, the men seem to be making small steps towards the best
season in Davidson College XC history. It’s a great day to be a Wildcat!

Write for DSS. Call Alison Kalett or Brian Mayerhofer.
