THE DAVIDSONIAN News TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998 5

Diversity Week promotes tolerance

Diversity continued from page 1

The party will showcase international music and ethnic dancing. Soda and chips will be available. The culmination of the week will be Saturday, on which the Preconceived Notions Forum will be held in the 900 Room. Those attending will be assigned colored nametags and be divided in various ways into separate groups based on race, economic background, experience with HIV, and experience with homosexuality, among others. Then small groups will be formed by nametag color in order to discuss the experience before the open floor forum to be led by Rev. Brenda Tapia.

“On Saturday we will begin by looking inside and then expand the scope to encompass the Davidson Community,” Lee says. “It promises to be an extremely eye-opening event.”

Later Saturday, the Chambers Gallery will house the FLAG Fashion Show. Postponed from Fall of 1997 in order to improve the entertainment and advertisement aspects, the show was rescheduled into Diversity Week and will allow the week to focus one specific event on the varying sexual orientations in the community. It will feature men and women modeling their finest, weirdest, and most shocking apparel.

“The Fashion Show,” says Irene Middleton, one of the Co-Chairs of Friends of Lesbians and Gays (FLAG), “is the single most diverse event scheduled. We have everything from BSC members in tin foil underwear to Charlotte drag queens.”

After the fashion show, FCREW will be sponsoring a Post-Fashion Show Throwdown in the 900 Room.

Allen Lee strikes a poignant chord as he sums up the importance of the week: “Look within yourself and across the hall or the classroom or Vail, and let us learn how to be sensitive and understand the differences that make us all beautiful.”

Buster bids farewell

Buster continued from page 1

office. But the impetus has come under his administration. And behind Burk’s urging, the SGA eliminated its own so-called five percent cap, which mandated that student government automatically receive five percent of a particular year’s ATC budget — no questions asked.

“I didn’t think that was right,” Burk explained. And, according to the Greenville, S.C., native, there were little things, things the average student doesn’t usually see — “lighting on campus, recycling to some extent, the basketball courts behind (Martin Court Apartment) F.”

But for those who worked side by side with Burk during his administration, the excitement and commitment he brought to the office will always stand out.

“The one thing Buster really brings that the SGA always needs is unbelievable enthusiasm,” Sophomore Class President Foster Haselden said. “His creativity can’t be matched.”

“He never sleeps,” Tuttle said. “It’s amazing.” Added Fisher: “He knows the way to sneak out of the Union” after hours.

Yet many students have complained throughout Burk’s term that the SGA was — or had become — stagnant and did not accomplish much of anything. To which Saintsing responds: “My question for them is, What did they expect? He fulfilled every single campaign promise he had. He just told us that he was going to listen to everybody. And he did it.”

“He has an amazing ability to say something in an off-hand and casual way,” Vagt said, “which upon reflection, I would realize contained unusual wisdom and insight.”

“I enjoyed sitting under him,” Haselden said. “I’m going to miss him.”

“It’s a different SGA than when I started,” Fisher said. In a good way or a bad way? “In a wonderful way.”

Archives...

The term of the Student Council President

By MELISSA ANN DE CASTRIQUE Staff Writer

The beginning of spring semester at Davidson College is definitely a time for change. In addition to the climate, new classes, and the self-selection process, spring semester also brings SGA elections. The selection of SGA officers greatly impacts the progress of the next school year. Just as important as choosing new representatives, however, is taking time to reflect on the major issues with which the outgoing SGA has been faced.

Thirty years ago, reflecting on the term of the outgoing SGA president would have been quite an involved process. Tom Earnhardt, who served as Student Council President for 1967-1968, faced some of the heaviest changes in Davidson’s history. At the beginning of his term, Earnhardt stated his seemingly moderate goals to a Davidsonian interviewer. He expressed a desire...For a new, more workable student constitution, an expansion of the educational planning program, restoration of Monday chapel services, and the appointment of more students to faculty committees. The first issues tackled by the Student Council included delegating Council members to study the possibility of keeping classrooms in Chambers open at night for study and tutorial purposes and researching the increase of prices at the Union snack bar. Earnhardt also addressed the possibility of an open-ended forum for students to question President D. Grier Martin.

One of the early problems presented to the Student Council involved married housing. The council sent questionnaires to all married students to determine the need for more housing, resulting in the decision to construct apartments to replace the inadequate housing for married students. The Student Council also demonstrated a need for greater finances and was thus able to more than double its budget from $1500 to $2500.

The Student Council’s other concerns were decidedly more complicated than its budget and committees. The question of whether or not to change Davidson's curriculum was the biggest issue on campus. The new curriculum, known as the Blue Sky proposals, included the implementation of a trimester calendar, the end of compulsory ROTC, the formation of an honors college, a non-Western program, and a learning center for independent study and career services. The Blue Sky curriculum also entailed area requirements (core courses), achievement exams at the end of sophomore year, and the completion of 32 courses for graduation. A Blue Sky subcommittee called for strengthened extracurricular programs, more support for intramurals, renovation of dormitories, and the reorganization of social life (including the end of the prohibition of on-campus drinking). Earnhardt played a key role in voicing student opinion on the Blue Sky committee. Also, the Student Council wrote a letter endorsing the proposal. The College’s trustees unanimously approved these changes, with the exception of the ROTC issue.

Progression of the Blue Sky program was delayed, however. Martin resigned from office, citing a need for personal change and dispelling any rumors of problems with the trustees, students, and faculty. Martin’s departure added a new dimension to Earnhardt’s presidency when he added advising the selection committee for a new college president to his already long list of presidential duties.

Concurrent with the Blue Sky decision and the resignation of Martin was the Student Council’s evaluation of Davidson’s punishment rules. A Committee on Student Responsibility combined student input along with the opinions of faculty members to formulate a new student constitution. This document established a Bill of Rights, a 23-member Senate, and required that the president of this Student Government Association (SGA) be a rising senior. The constitution, which passed a vote by the student body on Feb. 13, 1968, also included the earliest version of the Code of Responsibility. Although many students lambasted Earnhardt for buckling under pressure from the faculty for such a document, Council and Committee members supported the Code, maintaining that it would improve safety and encourage good conduct. The Code of Responsibility was adopted on May 1, 1968, and is still the basis for daily life at Davidson.

Just as Buster Burk will leave his mark on Davidson, when Tom Earnhardt left office in 1968, his impact endured. Earnhardt’s successor, Joe Murphy, began his term with a new College president, a new curriculum, and a new SGA. The need for change experienced by Davidson students at the beginning of this semester is nothing new on this campus. As the presidency of Earnhardt illustrated, the determination to make such changes happen is necessary for the constant advancement of the Davidson College community.

EXAMPLE:
Name: Smith, John
Class Status: SOPH

Attention All Students!!
Between now and February 6th, the Residence Life Office would like all students to check to make sure that their class status is correct. Lottery numbers are based upon class status and not upon class year, thus it is imperative for students to check the class rosters that will be posted outside the Registrar’s Office, by the Union Desk, in the Library, or in the Residence Life Office, for any errors that may be present. It should be noted that some students may have enough credits to warrant a different class status.

Class Year: 00

ALL CORRECTIONS SHOULD BE MADE PRIOR TO FEBRUARY 6TH.