Davidson: A nationally sanctioned “Gentleman”

On August 16th, between the hours of four and seven, my parents and I pulled into the Glasgow Street entrance
of Davidson. Along with the other upperclassmen, I was returning for a new year of late nights and grueling assignments
which were awaiting me at my “home away from home.” However, unlike a number of the members of the current
student population, I arrived at campus a little early; an action which caused a number of my friends to question
my mental health, often using every two-year-old’s favorite interrogative: “why.” Why subject myself to the heat and humidity of North
Carolina when I could be wearing a nice pair of khaki pants in the cool Michigan air? Why would I
want to return to school early? To answer those and many other great questions associated with the absurd idea of
returning to the educational meat grinder early, I have two words for you: Orientation Team.

For those of you who are unfamiliar with the Orientation Team, let me give you a quick description of what
it is and its purpose. The Orientation Team is a group of upperclassmen that vied for a voluntary position in
which we get to become indentured servants to all the freshmen and their parents; moving their belongings into their new
domiciles with a demonstration of brute strength and a smile. Now don’t get me wrong, I loved every moment of
Orientation Team. From a great Bonner Scholar’s dinner to the sweaty and sometimes difficult task of moving in freshmen belongings
like casual and formal clothing items, wall-to-wall carpeting, and refrigerators. Aside from those activities, Orientation Team also gave those of
us involved, at least the male members involved, a chance to meet, greet, and attempt to impress (read “mack on”)
certain members of the new freshman class. I would appreciate it if you didn’t read too far into this. I’m
not trying to say that all members of the Orientation Team staff had this purpose in mind, but I’m sure
that a number of people who were moving in recognized that some Orientation Team members would, sometimes knowingly, lift extremely
heavy boxes with the sole purpose of trying to impress those being moved in, risking back injuries and muscle aches
in the process.

Why am I stating all of this when I was a member of the Orientation Team and quite possibly participated
in an attempt at impressing some of the new class members myself? Well, frankly I don’t know; maybe I’m trying
to explain the reasons for our actions or maybe I’m just trying to defend them; I really have no idea.
I guess I should start like every other confession given by someone who is trying to defend their actions and
blame it on how I was raised. Like a number of the male students who attend this fine educational institution,
I was raised by my parents to be a “gentleman.” Living in the Northeast, however, it was hard to find
a place amongst my peers. The most common case where a problem would arise involved the opening and closing of
a door, be it a car door, a door to a building, or the door on an elevator. Through the
earlier years of my life, I have come to know five different “rules” of door etiquette.

1. If a party of two persons of opposite gender approach a door, it should be taken upon the male
in the party to open the door for the female. (It should be noted that the female is perfectly capable
of opening the door for herself and the other member of the party, however, if that is to occur it
should be at the discretion of both parties involved.)
2. If a party consisting of more than two persons should approach a door, the group should allow those persons
in the group of the female gender to pass through the door first, followed by the various males in the
group, and then the door holder, who, reverting back to the previous rule, is most likely/should be a male.
3. If a party of two or more persons of the same gender approach a door, the person closest to
the door should open it and allow the others to pass through first, regardless of gender.

Take time to live: relax

The cross country trails get really dark at night, my roommate warned before Ashley and I went running. Smiling, I
said, “um hum,” and took off anyway. Who could get lost on the cross country trails? Ashley and I were
asking ourselves the same question an hour later at 9:30 as we were running past the policemen’s firing range in
the middle of the woods with no clue where we were. I was beginning to think that we’d run into
Eric Rudolph.

Besides making me feel moronic and emphasizing my complete lack of direction, our excursion in the woods made me think:
How could we be so close to the Davidson we know and love and yet be so far away? In
the busy balancing act of academics, social life, and extracurriculars, I also sometimes get lost. I stress too much about
getting everything done, and I miss the right trail. I forget the point of life—living. The five papers and three
reviews which are all due on Monday won’t really matter on Tuesday, and you don’t really have to go with
your friends down to the Court. If you want to sit on the roof and blow bubbles, blow bubbles. The
Court won't change that much if you don’t go: I promise that there will be parties the next weekend.

Okay, good grades are a positive thing, and the Court is fun, but will those five papers and three reviews
or that one party really impact your life in fifty years? Sometimes, we get too involved in Davidson stuff. It’s
cool if you want to devote fifty hours a week to extracurriculars, but you really are a good person if
you don’t. It is not necessary that you juggle twenty things at one time. You can choose to do what
you enjoy instead of what will look good on your resume or grad school application, or you really don’t have
to do anything at all. If something doesn’t make you happy, why do it?

No, I’m not saying quit all of your activities, drop out of school, and join a traveling circus. Although, it
would be fun to ride an elephant. I am saying that we should take time to live. Not to live
in the carpe diem/cram-it-all-in kind of way, but instead to live in the way that you know you’re living instead
of rushing from place to place. Don’t spend too much time doing the inconsequential.Sequential that you’re running so close to
life yet so far from living. Instead, enjoy the little things, like the birds outside your window, so that when
you’re old, you can say that you’ve experienced the joy of living.

The person leading the group, or the first person to the door, should hold the door for the remainder of
the group, and then pass through the door themselves.

4. If a party of one approaches a door, notwithstanding their gender, it should be taken upon that person to
survey the surrounding door entrants and hold the door for the next person or persons that pass through the door.
(This rule depends a lot upon your feelings towards the “eye contact” clause which states that if eye contact is
made, you should hold the door for the person whom you made the aforementioned eye contact.)

5. Proper phrases to be passed amongst the door holder and the passers through the door should conform to the
dialect of the area in which the door resides. (e.g. “Thank You” is synonymous with “Thanks” or “Thanks, Dude” depending
on the region of the country the door is in.)

In the socially “advanced” Northeast, however, I often found myself being thrown off-guard by those who were against such displays
of chivalry (a.k.a. male chauvinism, depending on your location). For example, during my senior year in high school I was
layout editor of our newspaper. This meant that on more than one occasion I had to spend a late night
at school with the Editor-in-Chief of the paper, a female friend of mine whom I had grown up with and
with whom I had a good rapport. However, when it came time to leave the premises due to the insistence
of the janitors, I would often open one of four doors (they were in a row) for her, yet she
would continue out another door which she opened herself. It was not until our graduation that I learned that she
had felt that by my opening the door for her, she thought that I was trying to express male dominance
rather than just simple courteousness. I am pretty sure that it was that event that caused me to head south
toward Davidson; a place where I could be a “gentleman” with other “gentlemen” like myself. A place where I could
open a door for whomever I wanted and not be thought of as an oppressive male.

In a way, I guess this all reverts back to the kindness that was exhibited by the Orientation Team staff.
Those members who were trying to impress the new class were not doing so for personal gain, but instead they
were doing so to continue the tradition of etiquette onto the next class, be the member male or female. As
for the male members of the Orientation Team that often risked bodily injury just to show off their “strength” and
“manliness,” I think it is safe to say that they were only trying to show that there are still “gentlemen”
in this world, and while they may be going extinct in some areas of the nation, they still exist and
thrive here, at Davidson.

Parking gets students’ hearts racing

It’s gotten so bad that scouts are sent out in advance to secure a parking spot. Freshman Bobby Pittenger

Coming back from a late night out, my friends and I were in search of the most hallowed piece of
Davidson property. You might say that we were just another bunch of freshmen lost on campus, but we were not.
We were in search of the gold at the end of the rainbow, the Holy Grail of Davidson College —
an empty parking space. Moving around the parking lot of Belk, we saw the shrine ahead of us. The spot
was crammed between a mini-van and a large dumpster. Our cheers were silenced when we saw the sign: Reserved. Who
this spot was reserved for, the sign gave no indication. Was it some entity that did not really exist, was
this spot reserved for some person who had a veritable monopoly on spaces on campus, or were we just really
tired and making up stupid reasons in our heads? Well, we thought, whoever owns this spot won’t mind if we
borrow it for the evening. But our better judgment prevailed, and we parked far, far away in some distant lot.
After walking what seemed like miles, we stumbled, half-awake, into our dorm for a night of much-needed rest.

That night, we were put in a situation that has become all too familiar for Davidson College students. This year,
the parking problem on campus is worse than ever before. Many freshmen noticed the problem when they stumbled out of
Belk on their first night. Some students had parked their car in front of the door due to a lack
of parking spaces. Let me tell you, walking out your building half-awake in the morning and running right into a
parked car is not a fun experience. Many students around campus are frustrated with the parking problem. The problem has
gotten so bad that scouts are sent out in advance to secure a parking spot. Freshman Bobby Pittenger sums up
the situation: “There are just too many cars. I almost ran over a guy who was standing in a parking
spot for ten minutes waiting for his friend to show up.”

Strangely, the problem does not just exist at Davidson. All over the United States, schools are having the same kinds
of parking problems. At John Carroll University in Cleveland, Ohio, many students have to park two miles from campus, and
they must be bused to classes. Since parking is such a major problem, aren’t there any solutions? Senior Tommy Ting
suggests “a parking deck, a shuttle system from the senior apartments to Chambers, or the school should allow us to
have golf carts.” Although seniors overwhelmingly favor the golf cart idea, it looks like there will be a different solution.
Some ideas that are being batted around are placing a limit on cars allowed to have permits on campus to
a smaller number, only limit the number of freshmen that can have cars on campus, or increase the amount of
parking space available. Perhaps some of those spaces owned by Mr. Reserved can be given up. Unless something is done,
we will still have to deal with $30 tickets; we will force our friends to risk their lives fending off
disgruntled drivers while standing in an empty parking spot; and we will have to live with walking a little further
to our rooms at night. But maybe this is just a part of college that we have to get used
to, like the dorm rooms themselves, homework, and late nights. However, those golf carts sure would be comfortable.
