DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN

“The Nation's Foremost College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

The State of the School Address.
NEWS 2

Questioning faith.
Farnum searches for religion.
OPINIONS 11

Drag queens.
Mitch discusses the Scorpio.
A&L 14

App goes down.
Cats beat #1 conference team.
SPORTS 16

Sallie McMurray

Last Saturday, the 4th Annual FLAG Fashion Show transformed Chambers Gallery into a fanciful runway where students showed their enthusiasm
through an array of creative performances and costumes.

By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

The Residence Life Office will use the lottery system for housing again this year, but students will notice some changes.

RLO, in response to student complaints and advice, will shorten the length of the process and allow seniors access to
lottery numbers before Phase 1.

Traditionally, the lottery system was divided into three “phases.” During Phase 1, seniors received Martin Court Apartments. Phase 2 concerned
seniors who had not received an apartment during Phase 1, rising juniors, and Patterson Court Apartments. RLO also processed requests
to live off-campus during the second phase. Finally, Phase 3 was Open Lottery Night, where students assembled in Chambers to
choose the remaining rooms, including single rooms.

Lottery numbers one-500 are assigned to seniors; numbers 501-1000 are given to juniors; and numbers 1001-1500 are left for sophomores.

The process began in January and ended in April, with each phase separated by approximately three-week interludes. Assistant Director of
Resident Life Dee Jordan said she had received complaints from students that the process was too long.

“We heard comments from students,” said Jordan, “that it was stressful to have the process drawn out so long and
to not know (their housing status).” Also, Jordan said that the length of the process and the uncertainty made it
difficult for students who were trying to secure off-campus housing.

In response, RLO has condensed this process. “In the past,” said Jordan, “students had to keep up with what dates
you could pick up the applications.” To reduce this confusion, “students can pick up any application for anything on Feb.
11.”

Open Lottery Night will be held Mar. 25, keeping the entire process within two months. “Basically, we have combined Phases
2 and 3,” said Jordan.

In Phase 1, seniors still choose Martin Court Apartments, requests to live off-campus will be processed, and single room applications
will be accepted.

Phase 2 will include the remaining Martin Court Apartments, Patterson Court Apartments, the second round for single rooms and off-campus
permission, and Open Lottery Night.

The acceptance of single room applications was moved up to Phase 1 so that students who know they want singles
do not have to wait until Open Lottery Night.

“(The process) starts later,” said Jordan, “so that students who need to dispute their class status and get their accounts
with the Controller’s Office settled have time to do so.” Previously, students with outstanding debts or questionable class status could
not pick up their lottery numbers until these problems were resolved.

RLO has posted students’ class status in a variety of places, including the Union and their new offices in the
basement of Belk Residence Hall.

Beginning this year, seniors will also have access to their lottery numbers before Phase 1. RLO had declined to release
these lottery numbers in the past, preferring that students decide their roommates regardless of lottery numbers. (To determine the group
lottery number, the lottery numbers of the roommates are added together.)

The SGA’s Residence Life Committee recommended that RLO release these numbers, leaving students to deal with potential problems themselves.

RLO hopes students find the revised lottery system less confusing and less stressful. In addition, a booklet concerning the new
system and frequently asked questions is in the process of being published.

“We haven’t drastically changed the system,” said Jordan, “but we've condensed it and simplified it.”

For rising sophomores who have yet to experience the lottery process, RLO wants their first experience to be as positive
and relaxed as possible. “It is my hope, and the department’s hope,” said Jordan, “that students will find (the process)
more user-friendly.”

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
