THE DAVIDSONIAN
Arts & Living
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

Mia Chung plays Bach, Chopin, Hyla
By Wesley H. Goinsberry
Arts & Living Editor

The Davidson College Concert Series had still not quite gotten past all of the thunder caused by William Kanengiser’s guitar
recital on January 21. Nonetheless, Sunday night was piano night in fabled Hodson Hall, where Mia Chung gave a grueling
and impressive two-hour performance.

Chung chose to reverse the order of the program, performing J.S. Bach’s “Goldberg Variations” following rather than preceding intermission. The
recital began with two Schubert impromptus, one in E-flat major and another in G-flat major. These were well-received by the
capacity crowd, as keyboard aficionados one and all became enthralled with her impressive combination of raw technique and sensitivity.

Ms. Chung’s stage presence was highly commendable. She addressed the audience before each piece, clarifying the purpose and history behind
each work. Chopin’s Fantasy in F Minor, the third piece on the program, was the highlight of the performance for
many audience members. A delightful, imaginative work, many found it to be more palatable than the piece which followed it,
Lee Hyla’s “Riff and Transfiguration.” Composed in 1996, “Riff and Transfiguration” was as modern of a work as they come,
a piece with no discernable meter or hypermeter. To some, it sounded as if Hyla had mashed down on the
keys at random for a few minutes, wrote it all down on staff paper, and gave it a title. To
Hyla’s credit, the work was impressive in its own right, and provided a paramount challenge to Chung, for whom the
piece was commissioned by the Concert Artists Guild. The piece was also, in Chung’s own words, “physically demanding,” providing both
a good workout for her arms and an ample warm-up for the second half of the program.

Liaisons for the Davidsonian positioned in Cunningham Fine Arts Center bathrooms reported much buzzing about the “Riff and Transfiguration” amongst
audience members, who described the piece as “interesting.”

Bach’s “Goldberg Variations” comprised the entire second half of the concert. Although the work itself is a fascinating compositional feat
(as evidenced by the program notes), the 32-piece sequence proved tiring for many. Chung tickled ivory after ivory, playing variation
after variation, until after knocking out the Quodlibet and the aria da capo her hands finally fell to rest. The
audience granted Chung a couple of curtain calls, paying homage to her endurance.

Mia Chung has won numerous awards and grants throughout the 1990s, becoming one of America’s premier young pianists. She has
made several recordings and has performed all over the world, including a gig at Weill Recital Hall at Carnegie Hall
in New York. Chung, a graduate of the Juilliard School, is currently on faculty at Gordon College in Wenham, MA.
Mia Chung’s recital won much praise and appreciation from students, faculty, and community members alike. The Concert Series will conclude
on Monday, March 30, when the Amadeus Trio takes the stage.

Jeffrey Hornstein

Mia Chung gave a recital last Sunday night in Hodson Hall as part of the Davidson College Concert Series.

“Chasing Amy” to show in the 900 Room Feb. 18 and 20
By Ed Page
Staff Writer

“Chasing Amy” is a poignant love story that aims itself at the college and twenty-something crowd and hits its mark.
Originally released in April of last year, “Chasing Amy” will be playing in the 900 Room next week.

Holden and Banky are best friends and authors of a popular comic book called “Bluntman & Chronic” (based on Jay
and Silent Bob of “Clerks” and “Mallrats” fame). Holden (an excellent Ben Affleck) and his best friend Banky (Jason Lee)
pass their time by attending comic book conventions, dallying in romance, and goofing around. Kevin Smith, who wrote and directed
the movie — the third installment in his Jersey trilogy — makes these characters intense and funny. It’s all in
the writing. We meet his heroes at a comic book convention, where they’re autographing copies of their hit cult comic
“Bluntman & Chronic.” Soon, Holden meets Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), another comic book artist, and during a long dart game
in a nearby pub, they find that their minds are well-matched. Later, though, Alyssa informs Holden that she is a
lifelong lesbian, and he finds himself confronted with a difficult challenge — can he be friends and nothing more, with
this woman that he clearly loves? The jealousy, confusion, and wounded emotions that come into play here are tightly woven
and deftly handled. Though he is frustrated by his unrequited love, he becomes close friends with Alyssa and finds that
their friendship is driving a wedge between him and Banky. A relationship eventually does develop, but this leads to more
difficulties for all three. This is where the true heart ofThe movie lies. I have not seen either “Clerks” or
“Mallrats,” the first two movies of this trilogy, but the writing and quality of this movie make me want to
go back and watch those two as well. The banter between Alyssa, Holden, and (sometimes) Banky is genuine, realistic, and
fun. One day Holden asks Alyssa, “How could you have grown up on the shores and never played skee-ball? What
did you do with your childhood?” She responds, “Stayed out late, smoked pot, screwed around.” Holden retorts, “Not your grade
school years; your high school years.” The mock tirade by Hooper, a gay black friend of theirs, about the racism
in “Star Wars,” is great. The writing which Smith offers to the viewer is an excellent portrayal and hilarious glimpse
into these people’s lives. Still, even though there are plenty of laughs, this movie is a drama all the way,
and it’s dramatic in a way that probably only the college folk and twenty-somethings can appreciate. This is a movie
about trying to move into a grown-up phase of your life when you’re unable to completely handle the new, tough
emotions. Ultimately, it is a rewarding experience, a serious look at some difficult issues for people our age. No matter
how much I enjoyed the movie overall and its writing, there were a few instances where I was flustered by
the way Smith wrote some of the scenes. I cannot explain further, because the one scene that bothered me the
most is important to the outcome of the movie. All I will say is that I don’t know of anyone
who would handle a situation that way; there has to be a better way to arrive at the same conclusion.
Grade: B.

On the Scene at DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. Coffee and donuts. Bring small change. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in 900 Room.

“Secrets and Lies.” Film full of lies and secrets. 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Michael Sells. Speaker. 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Free newtons. 7:30 p.m. at the Outpost.

Roger Brown & Friends Exhibit. More art, by Roger and his friends. All week long. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
in the VAC.

21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Duke Divinity School representative. For the world’s only 60-year-old Gothic cathedral. 10:30 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.

Roger Brown & Friends Exhibit. Continues throughout the week.

Philosophy lecture. 4:30 - 6:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Coffeehouse. Save your Bonus Bucks, patronize the Krispy Kreme corporation. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Alcohol Awareness. It’s everywhere, man. 1:00 - 3:00 p.m. on Chambers Lawn.

Sobriety Testing. In conjunction with said alcohol awareness. 3:15 - 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Room in the Inn. Every Saturday. 4:00 p.m. at Johnston Gym.

Jumpin’ Java. Caffeine. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Young Life Meeting. 5:00 - 6:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Sobriety Testing. Test your sobriety with Georgia Ringle and friends. 7:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

TUESDAY

WEDNESDAY

THURSDAY

SATURDAY

Crush Sale. Buy orange soda for your friends in secret. 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. in Chambers 1st Floor Hallway.

Meditation Class. Ommmmmm. 5:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

“The Color Purple.” Oprah in her pre-libel days. 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Rape Awareness Meeting. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Wilson Room.

Info meeting on Sun Life. Check it out. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

“Daughters of the Dust.” Film. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

How to Find Summer Internships. There must be a way. 5:00 - 7:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

M.A.D.D. Speakers. Speakers from M.A.D.D. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. at Vail Commons.

“Shaft.” Because he’s a bad mutha—“shut yo’ mouth!” The 70s classic shows in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

Friday Afternoon Club. Speaking of alcohol awareness, there’s some beer in the 900 Room from 4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m.

“Friday.” It’s a movie. 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“Love Jones.” Capping off the night's doubleheader. 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Billy’s Cosmic Love Fest. Call Billy Roberts for more info. It’s an F-Crew-sponsored thing. At night in the 900 Room.

University of East Anglia representative. Come on, you know you're interested. 12:00 - 1:30 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Volunteer Pizza Bribe. Volunteers, bribed with pizza. 5:00 - 6:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Poetry reading tonight. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Judge Vic Fleming. He'll speak in the Chambers Gallery from 7:00 - 9:00 p.m.

Former VA Governor Douglas Wilder. Probably a much bigger deal than the other stuff in this box; you should all
go. He speaks from 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Second City. 10:00 - Midnight at Hodson Hall.
