“The World’s Foremost College Weekly” 
ESTABLISHED 1914

McKelvey on the prowl. New safety director takes charge.
NEWS 3

The Davidsonian sucks. We’ll go jump now.
OPINIONS 5

‘Round Midnight dominates. Chamber Singers lost in the shuffle.
A&L 8

Sports 15, 16

Panel discusses diversity in curriculum
By ASHLEY E. KING
News Editor

On Tuesday, Nov. 10, the Diversity in Education forum was held in the Morrison Room of the Union to discuss diversity in the current curriculum. A panel of seven students and professors spoke for the first part of the forum, each panelist examining a different arena that could broaden Davidson’s curriculum beyond the traditional class offerings. After the formal speech period, an informal discussion period followed, with students openly discussing the possibility of making the curriculum more diverse.

The first panelist to speak was Nancy J. Fairley, a professor of anthropology and the Ethnic Studies Coordinator. Raising the question of what defines an American, Fairley objected to the view that America is simply a culture of whites, while the rest of society has been lumped into various subcultures. According to Fairley, Davidson’s classes need to encompass the contribution of African Americans to U.S. history. With classes that include the influences of African Americans, students can begin to explore the previously ignored aspects of history, such as the efforts of African Americans in the Revolutionary and Civil Wars.

Sharing his experience, Marek Blicharz ‘99 began by saying, “I represent the part of campus that is the international one.” Living in several different cultures around the world and having parents of different ethnic backgrounds, Blicharz has come to believe that the promotion of diversity in the Davidson community is an integral part of the college experience. “Probe out that sphere you haven’t touched yet,” Blicharz recommended. “Diversity will become a personal thing. You get interested in other things around you besides your own culture and learn a lot more about yourself.”

The next person on the panel was Ainsley Natta ‘99, president of the Black Student Coalition. Raised in New York, Natta has been exposed to a degree of diversity that he said “you just don’t learn here.” Although Natta feels that diversity is an important aspect of education, he also said, “What I’ve learned about diversity is that you can’t force it on people.” Natta expressed regret about not having enough options at Davidson so that students can educate themselves about diversity. For example, Natta pointed out that there are currently no opportunities to learn about Hispanic culture. Basically, Natta hopes that Davidson will foster an environment where students can “be inquisitive” about other types of people and other cultures.

Presenting women’s issues in education, Sally McMillan, a professor of history, spoke about the importance of including the contribution of women in the College curriculum. When she first came to Davidson, McMillan was one of a minority of women on the faculty, and she said that she “wasn’t very welcome” back then. Although she feels that the atmosphere at Davidson has changed, McMillan still feels that women’s issues in education need to be promoted. “It’s really important to teach history from women’s perspective,” McMillan said. Enriching a student’s education, women’s studies help a student to see history from “the bottom up.” McMillan feels it is important to learn about the day-to-day occurrences in people’s lives rather than just focusing on the interactions of nations.

In his portion of the forum, Scott Denham, a German professor, spoke about the issue of diversity of wealth and class in education. “I find it interesting,” Denham commented, “that this topic isn’t discussed. Why can’t we talk about money?” Denham also expressed concern that the school “recruits by zip code,” meaning that Davidson strategically sends its pamphlets and letters to affluent areas. Pointing out that two-thirds of Davidson students pay full tuition, Denham said that including this topic in the curriculum would increase student awareness and enhance the education that Davidson offers.

The next person to speak on the panel was Cintra Pollack ‘99, a student at Davidson who offered her individual experience as a Jewish person on a largely Christian campus. Although she was frustrated about often being the “token” Jewish student at Davidson, Pollack also said that she felt that she should attempt to educate other inquisitive students about her religion and culture. After sharing her religion with others, Pollack feels that she learned more about herself and who she was.

Assistant Chaplain and Director of the Love of Learning, Brenda Tapia began her portion of the forum by joking that she would “rather be in bed.” Tapia approached the issue of diversity from a religious standpoint. She said that there is “a higher command for diversity” that comes from God. After describing God as having created women of all races and then, “oh yeah, men,” Tapia emphasized the idea that God had intentionally created people who were different from one another. Echoing Denham’s sentiments, Tapia also said that she believed classism to be a barrier of diversity on campus. According to Tapia, we have “a God-ordained command to be diversified.”

The last speaker of the evening was English professor Tim Waples ‘87. Beginning his speech by saying that diversity is “a concept that is a moving target,” Waples compared the various historical approaches of English literature to different cultures and races. Waples feels that the courses offered at Davidson are becoming more diverse. Using essays as examples, Waples showed that theThe study of the classics has changed as a result of awareness of diversity, and the canon has been transforming to include more diverse topics. Finally, Waples encouraged students to take discussions of diversity beyond the classroom and into their everyday life at Davidson. After the formal session of the forum, students and panelists had an informal discussion session, exploring various topics such as classism, racism, homophobia, and sexism. Students also discussed possible ways to combat labels and possible ways to improve diversity at Davidson both inside and outside the classroom.

Flag Fashion Show displays Davidson’s color
By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

On Saturday, Nov. 7, Davidson showed its hidden side at the FLAG Fashion Show. Students lined up outside the doors to Chambers to see dancing, students in drag, and, of course, nudity. This year’s fashion show raised money for the Zac Lacy Book Fund and the Arts and Science Council. The Zac Lacey Book Fund, found in the Little Library, honors deceased alumnus Zac Lacey. The profits from the FLAG Fashion Show will help purchase books related to English and gender studies. The Arts and Science Council is a Charlotte-based organization that funds performances throughout North Carolina. The Council lost most of its state funding after contributing to “Angels in America,” a play involving homosexuality. FLAG chose this organization so that tolerance can be promoted throughout the community at large.

FLAG, or Friends of Lesbians and Gays, is a campus organization that promotes tolerance on campus. FLAG’s mission is “to educate the Davidson College community about homosexuality and bisexuality, and attempt to increase tolerance for homosexuality on our campus. We want to preserve the rights of the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community on campus, and ensure that our campus is a safe and comfortable place for every individual, regardless of their sexual orientation.” The co-chairs of FLAG, Alice Owens ’00 and Brad Shipman ’01, worked with Kara Chisholm ’00, the secretary/treasurer; Irene Middleton ’00, a past chair; Emily Happoldt ’00, a past chair; and Mike Goode, the advisor for FLAG, to put the fashion show together. Of the approximately 40 students on the FLAG voice mail list, only about ten members are active participants. Besides the reception for the 25th Anniversary of Coeducation, the fashion show is the first event of the year for FLAG. The fashion show required much time, energy, and planning of the members. Fifteen to 20 hours of work went into preparing for the show this week alone.

FLAG tries “to help Davidson raise awareness about homosexual issues and sexuality, while increasing tolerance and acceptance of homosexuals,” said Shipman. Currently, Davidson does not have any openly homosexual students. Because an openly gay junior left Davidson about three weeks ago, Shipman feels it is especially important that the community works to “lessen intolerance and provide a more conducive atmosphere for homosexual students to feel comfortable with coming out.” FLAG will hold a sexuality forum in March to give students the opportunity to come out.

Students showed enthusiastic support for the fashion show. This year there were fewer acts than previous years, but they lasted longer. Dan Wingate and Bill Stoops were the Masters of Ceremony. Some of the night’s highlights included Tarik Khan’s discovery of the moon, Wingate in drag sporting first a dress then chaps, Nowell Zimmerman, who showed off his soprano voice, and Melody Cadogan and Kelly Byrd as frustrated school girls. John Watson, Bridget Green, Marie Sharp, and Agatha Degasperi won a $5 gift certificate to the Outpost for their Thriller performance. The band “The Band,” whose members are Chad Diamond, Greg Filak, Ross Hagen, and Austin Rios, won a $10 gift certificate for the Outpost. The Styles of Brotherhood—Yu-Jay Harris, Nowell Zimmerman, James Hampton, Ben Ebong, Ainsley Natta, Sibeso Yeta, Ikena Myers, Andre Carelock, Karim Lawrence, Roland Williams, Robert Thorton, Ryan and Corey Crawford, Brian Turner, James Hampton, Emeka Erege, and Bo Henderson—all won $15 for their fashionable performance. Cintra Pollack, Will Bradshaw, and John Watson won prizes for the most sponsors. After the show, there was the dance party.

Despite the jest of the fashion show, FLAG also reminded students that actions of hatred are committed against the homosexual community. FLAG informed students that the American Psychological Association does not qualify homosexuality as a mental illness and that humans are not the only type of animals that practice homosexuality. This fall, Bob Jones University threatened to arrest all homosexuals who returned to the school for homecoming. Some other facts that FLAG shared include that in North Carolina, the act of sodomy is a “crime against nature” and can be punished with ten years of imprisonment and at Matthew Shepard’s funeral, protesters chanted “no tears for queers.” FLAG works to ensure that sentiments like these are not expressed in the Davidson community.

Last year, the fashion show raised $1,200, which went to the Zac Lacey Book Fund, Time Out Youth, and the Arosa House. Time Out Youth is an organization in Charlotte where homosexual teens can come for support and social activities. Arosa House is a home for children under ten years old who have HIV. This year, the FLAG Fashion Show raised $1,500. Middleton said, “We are really excited. This is the most money we’ve raised yet, and the biggest turnout.” FLAG welcomes anyone interested to attend their next meeting Nov. 19 in Johnston Gym. Call x6308 for more information.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036