Hello, hello, folks, here I am once again to waste your time, which could be better spent finding job opportunities for O.J. Simpson (I will eventually get tired of this opening, but for now you'll have to deal). Well, well, what to write about this week. I don’t know how many of you read Ed Diggins’s article in the Arts & Living section of last week’s paper, but if you haven't, I definitely suggest going and reading it now. I must personally congratulate Ed on a truly hilarious column; I have never laughed so hard in my life. Perhaps I should allow him to attempt to write the funny columns in Op-Ed and I'll do something crazy like sleep.

For those of you who did read Ed’s article, you'll remember the Mt. Vesuvius analogy that he made. I would just like to point out that thousands of people were killed in the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius because they became covered in ash. That’s right, thousands of people became human statues because they got covered by what Mt. Vesuvius shot out. Now, imagine juxtaposing those two stories. Not a pretty picture, is it, folks? And unlike “There’s Something About Mary,” I will not go into the grim details of that event. You can draw those conclusions on your own. Franks and beans, franks and beans.

Now, if you’re wondering why I am rambling on in this column worse than Mumbles from “Dick Tracy,” I will explain. If you are not wondering about this, please proceed to the next irrelevant paragraph. I don’t know about the rest of you lucky students here at Davidson, but I have received about three hours of sleep in the last week. I say “received” because in this place sleep is a greater gift than mold, Frankenstein, and mimes... or whatever it was. College students take sleep deprivation very seriously; we do things that even Chuck Yeager would balk at. I'll bet even he got a good night’s sleep before he tried to break the sound barrier. There is a fine line between bravery and lunacy, and often I’m not quite sure on which side I stand. Although looking at Chuck’s illustrious career, the same could easily be said for him. Who in their right mind would subject themselves to the kinds of experiments he did voluntarily? A college student in need of money, probably, but he was well past his college years.

Now, where was I? Ah yes, sleep deprivation. I’ve noticed that people on this campus are falling sick faster than a peasant in London, England, 1348 AD. I think our bodies are collectively going on strike, and there is not a thing we can do about it. Right now, my brain is screaming at me like Scotty from Star Trek, “You cannot push it any harder than this, Cort. What are ya, a bleeding fool? You’re gonna make us crash. I'll try and get a few more days out of the Folger’s Crystals, but I cannot promise anything!” My antibodies have been running longer than a Jerry’s Kids telethon. The only difference is that I don’t get washed-up actors to perform for me. “And now, Bronson Pinchot will come out and sing, ‘Somewhere Over the Rainbow.’”

I would like to do something now that always seems to work on sitcoms when they need filler. Due to the fact that I have run fresh out of ideas for anything to write about, I will now print a column I wrote a few weeks ago, but it never made it past the cutting room floor. Don’t you all feel special? You get to see the “behind-the-scenes” actions of a truly warped mind at work. Here it is folks, “A Fresh Opinion: the Lost Column” (Ok, so it’s not as exciting as the lost “Lucy” episodes, give me a break, all right?).

Hello again, folks. Well, it certainly has been an interesting week in the news, hasn’t it? Or at least that is what I am told, seeing as someone keeps stealing my newspaper. The President has fallen farther in the last week than Steve Guttenberg’s career did after “Three Men and a Baby.” Now, I know what you're thinking: “Oh man, he finally stops talking about his girlfriend, only to start making fun of the President with jokes so old that even Letterman wouldn’t touch them.” Well, guess what folks, I’m not going to do that to you. However, I am going to touch upon a subject that is equally close to the President — sex in the news.

Now, understand that when I say “sex in the news,” I don’t mean the uncensored Sam Donaldson and Barbara Walters video but rather the stories that these people present to us. Why is it that the sex scandals we hear about are never about the people we’d like to see? For example, look at the most recent inductees to the sex scandal hall of fame: Michael Jackson, Marv Albert, Eddie Murphy, and Bill Clinton. I have no desire whatsoever to know what these people do in their spare time, or during business hours, in Bill’s case. Wouldn’t you hate to find out you were the guy Bill was talking to while he was engaging in “improper sexual relations?” Yes, but back to not bashing the President. To quote Monty Python, “I object to all this sex on the television. I mean, I keep falling off!”

Seriously though, why can’t we ever hear about the beautiful people of the world caught up in sex scandals? Well, I guess we do — it’s called porn — but why can’t we mainstream it? I don’t know about the rest of you, but I have no desire to hear about the marks that can be found on Michael Jackson’s meat and two veg. That’s just something that needs to stay between Michael, Bobo the chimp, and the five-year-olds. Also, not only are the main characters involved unappealing, but look at the people they chose as candidates for their misguided sexual advances. Michael had children, the woman who was with Marv had, well, Marv, Eddie Murphy had a transvestite prostitute, and Bill not only had Monica, but Hillary as well. Not that Hillary is all that unattractive, she just frightens me worse than Janet Reno doing a strip tease.

Well, I started this column with the best of intentions, and I apologize for the fact that it was about as fun as watching a colonoscopy being performed on Roger Ebert. I promise that the next column I make will be a little better, but I’m allowed to have a bad column every once in a while, because I’m good enough, I’m smart enough, and doggonit, at least I’m not as bad off as Bill. Take it easy, and I'll see y’all ‘round.

Have you ever watched “South Park”? Well, if not, do not go away just yet. But if you have watched it, you know that before every episode, “the powers that be” display what appears only a silly disclaimer as to the content of their farce to follow. The disclaimer ends, to paraphrase, “no person should ever watch this show.” Until recently, I did not understand why on Earth such a disclaimer was needed. What was obvious to me — a show not to be taken seriously; a show not to get upset over when nearly every group of society save rich, thin, white, males was insulted; and a show not to be taken in the same light as, say, the six o’clock news — was not so obvious to many in the population. Then I thought that maybe I do not realize...the way the world is because I'm so damn cool. My coolness just absorbs me, causing me to live in a naive world. In Crabbie’s world, people walk around in their white-laced shoes, in their favorite old t-shirt, and with a good head on their shoulders. People rarely, if ever, go sticking their hands into a hot-looking fire because they realize that looks are not always deceiving. When they walk upon a major state highway, the people of Crabbie’s world also stop about ten yards before they reach that highway and say to themselves, “Those cars are moving at a high rate of speed. I bet if I stepped out onto that highway, one of those vehicles would probably hit me and rip me to shreds.” Crabbie land is a nice place, but it is not a realistic one. My message for the underclassmen then — when ingesting information, always be aware of the context in which that information is placed. If you feel this lesson is merely common sense, then you are already one step ahead of the game. Crabbie is proud of you, and it is unnecessary to read today’s lesson any further! For all others, let me give you an example.

Outrageous statements: Do not read my column in the same way you might read a carefully thought-out and meaningful letter to the editor. My column is neither thought-out nor meaningful nor should it be read as such. After all, I do not actually want you walking around with poor self-esteem just because I told you two weeks ago that you were not cool. Realize that my column is not serious. Crabbie is a coward who hurls insults at people from the safety of his own room. These insults, however, are not researched or well-reasoned arguments intended to be included in my next thesis defense. They are merely outrageous statements which may or may not reflect how Crabbie feels about a particular situation. With this in mind, I hope that nobody would ever take offense at my column. I have big plans to target many groups and people here — especially those Southerners. I even have plans to take a shot or two at the president of our school. For this reason, the next Golden S.A.G.T.A.S.S. Award goes to President Vagt. He gets the ‘Should(A) Gone To A State School Award’ for his attempts at turning Davidson into a state school. Since when was Davidson about saving a buck and not about the students? It starts with the infirmary and Chambers, but where will it end?

Back to my point: Common sense is a valuable asset. It is too bad not everybody in the world is blessed with it. So with reality in mind, I leave you with this disclaimer on all future articles: “Crabbie Says” is an adult column which in no way intends to offend its adult subjects. It is a farce which only wishes to express the opinion of Crabbie, however valueless. Crabbie’s articles have no connection with intelligence or unfamiliar Latin dictum. Nobody should ever read this column.

The changes implemented at the Café this fall are the direct result of complaints from students, faculty, and staff over the past three years. Despite the tremendous work of Julie Mills and her staff, criticism of our speed of service, the crowded nature of the facility, and the unchanging menu have been common. Clearly, our customers have concerns about some of the changes. Since the school year has begun, we have listened carefully to students through the SGA, the Union Board, individual conversations, and numerous e-mails. In that time, we have restored a number of products that students regard as essential. Most notably, 20-ounce bottles are back and we are busy figuring out a way to refrigerate these drinks without obstructing aisles and without requiring hours of labor to keep them stocked. We have expanded our candy and chip selection, returned frozen entrees, and brought back a number of non-food items (medicines, batteries, etc.). We have begun the process of expanding our grill menu so that ultimately patrons will not see the exact same menu every day. Customers tell us that we have made good progress on our goal of speeding up grill and deli orders, particularly during the busy lunch hours. New products have been added, and others are forthcoming (specialty coffees, fresh salads, fresh baked goods, smoothies, oil-free french fries, chicken fillets, and more). We have restructured our staffing in a way that reduces the number of hours of student employment, but we have offered evening shift hours to all returning student Café workers and some hours even remain unfilled. This restructuring allows the grill to operate whenever the Café is open, provides experienced support to grill workers, and ensures more consistent night-shift productivity (stocking, cleaning, cash register balancing). This doesn’t represent all that will happen at the Café. Creating a program that satisfies most students, faculty, and staff while running it in a fiscally responsible manner will require continuing communication. We are not through listening; this is a dynamic situation. We have worked earnestly to address the complaints of the last three years. We are also attempting to establish a program that can cover its own cost. Any time a business enterprise of the College loses money, it pulls money from other programs, all of which are regarded as vital by some constituency. For the most part, the community has responded to our requests for feedback in a thoughtful and helpful way. This is greatly appreciated. Continue to help us by contacting your SGA representatives or Union Board members or send me suggestions directly via e-mail.

Church relatedness: The very phrase brings shivers to my spine with its coldness and oppressive connotations. The church, especially the Presbyterian Church in regard to some of its recent politics, is often not an organization I want to be related to. Still, I do not think Davidson's “church relatedness” has to be negative or oppressive. By affirming our ties with the Presbyterian Church, Davidson is also affirming the spiritual aspect of humanity. The statement of purpose reads, “Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and encourages teachers and students to explore the whole of reality, whether physical or spiritual, with an unlimited employment of their intellectual powers. Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to realize and maintain its particular vision of academic excellence.” By virtue of relating itself to the Presbyterian Church, Davidson claims that it values both the intellectual and spiritual journey of its students. For this, I applaud Davidson and its recognition.

My gripe comes in the carrying out of this vision. If Davidson is going to publicly commit itself to the spiritual development of its students by declaring its church-relatedness, we need to embrace this vision not just as an institution but as a community made up of students, professors, and staff. If we intend to holistically educate our students, then we cannot section off spirituality as appropriate to only certain spheres in Davidson. Our belief in spiritual development must also infiltrate the classroom setting. Often what we are taught in class evokes questions about our own spiritual journey. We need to look towards each other for answers and recognize our mutual search for “truth” and “meaningfulness.” Church-relatedness can be an oppressive term, but ideally, it can mean that we are a community centered on love and acceptance. If we are officially “church-related,” we need to allow these concepts to manifest themselves in all facets of life at Davidson.