THE DAVIDSONIAN

ROTC: A tradition of leadership and humanity

By Michael GILLESPIE
Assistant News Editor

In the mid-60s, Davidson underwent a major change in policy when the requirement for Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) participation
was removed. This year, the program suffered from another change in policy when a reduction in federal funding removed much
of the program’s staff and moved activities away from Davidson campus.

The ROTC program was designed to prepare young men and women for service in the U.S. Army. According to Major
Alvin Vavra, Assistant Professor of Military Studies and head of the ROTC program at Davidson, many officer training programs at
colleges around the nation developed because of a need for competent—and most importantly—diversified people in the Army. He said that
before the advent of ROTC programs, West Point graduates filled most officer positions. Members from different backgrounds serve to broaden
the Army’s structure and make the organization more adaptive and effective.

Vavra feels that this is why Davidson graduates are particularly valuable to the Army. Our “graduates stand head and shoulders
above the people from other schools,” he said, and they provide a needed diversity in addition to academic ability. One
event that exhibits the quality of Davidson cadets is the enrollment process in different branches of the Army. Vavra said
that an ROTC cadet’s entrance into the Army is very similar to applying to college. Various scores for performance and
aptitude are recorded, and the applicants are ranked accordingly. Priority for preferred areas of service is then given according to
this ranking. Vavra said that it attests to the level of Davidson preparation that “Davidson students usually get what they
want.” He also said that because of emphasis on academic work and self-motivation, most Davidson students were prepared to work
for and earn promotions in the Army. “Their only limit is their desire,” said Vavra.

Evidently, though, the quality of cadets is not what has moved ROTC out of their offices beneath Belk dorm and
into the second floor of Johnston Gym. And although the Residence Life Office has slid into ROTC’s old meeting spaces,
the changes in ROTC began two years ago. At that time, former president John Kuykendall and the Davidson ROTC program
were informed that federal cutbacks in military funding would require Davidson’s program to be phased out, and the federal and
military personnel stationed there to be transferred to the program in Charlotte. However, Vavra said that this is a small
part in the larger downsizing of the military in general. By his interpretation, the downsizing trend began after the Persian
Gulf conflicts with Saddam Hussein in 1990. Because of that conflict, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the demise
of the Soviet Union, Vavra feels that America began to believe “we are great” and “there’s no threat,” and soon
afterwards, they began to request a reduction in the forces believed to be no longer necessary. “The army is getting
smaller, smaller, smaller,” said Vavra, and he seemed to think that trend would continue. “I would expect to downsize in
reaction to what the public wants.”

This downsizing has hurt Davidson’s program, and is hurting ROTC programs nationwide. Vavra said the program went from requiring 800,000
soldiers on active duty to only 500,000. This elimination of positions created a great deal of student skepticism as to
whether officer training in a college’s ROTC program would lead to a student finding a job in the future, and
thus limited the numbers of applicants. Also, with reduced funding and reduced need for the sheer numbers of applicants, many
ROTC programs were simply closed. Where there were 323 programs, there are now only 270. Davidson was partially spared from
being entirely closed but now exists in cooperation with the ROTC group at UNC Charlotte. The Davidson cadets still have
their classes taught at the College in classrooms in Johnston Gym, but Vavra is now the only officer assigned here.
Many activities are now conducted through UNC Charlotte. Vavra used the annual Ranger Challenge—the “varsity sport of ROTC”—as an example.
This “sport” is a combination of the academic as well as the physical, as the cadets compete in both technical
and tactical tasks. Unfortunately, Davidson could not field its own team this year for a lack of cadets, but it
did send members to compete on Charlotte’s team.

Major Vavra has hopes to re-expand the Davidson program over the coming years. One obstacle for the program has been
the limited number of scholarships that Davidson has to offer. But Vavra expects additional two- and three-year scholarships to become
available in the near future. Under the new scholarship program, Davidson would receive a guaranteed number of scholarships per year.
Twenty-six of the 30 people enrolled now have scholarships. Admitting that educational funding is often the real reason many people
accept the terms for enlistment, Vavra is hopeful that these new scholarships will draw more recruits. Vavra hopes to increase
the number of cadets enough for Davidson to gain back its national host status. He said that at that point,
he can bring more personnel to Davidson to assist in training.

Even without large numbers of cadets, Davidson ROTC has kept busy with a long list of activities. They present the
National and State colors daily, perform the functions of Honor Guard, march in the Veterans Day parade, the Christmas Parade,
and in Charlotte Hornets’ games, and sponsor blood drives in the fall and spring. In addition to the community involvement,
they hold outdoor labs throughout the spring, attend training camps during the summer, and take a trip each semester to
a remarkable battleground in order to preserve the lessons of history.

Vavra said that the family aspect of the military and the ROTC program is what makes participation special. He tried
to describe the depth of the bond through the example of his command in the Gulf War. “My greatest fear
was the injury or loss of life of one of my soldiers,” he said. “The bonds prove very strong.” That
is one way in which Vavra sees the Army as a unique employer. Because it seeks people who will prevent
the loss of life, it encourages competence. He feels that this...Reward system based upon ability provides a real sense of
equality. Vavra saw this equality as advantageous to any motivated individuals. When asked about the opportunities for women, he replied
that today’s Army tries to be as supportive as possible. “The army has made many overdue strides into incorporating women
into units,” he said, “and in accommodating their needs and breaking down the stereotypes.” There are boards of promotion who
specifically look toward ability and performance to protect individuals from discrimination. “All the women I have and the ROTC are
at least as qualified as the men,” he said, “and that hurts a lot of male egos.” Vavra believes that
the future of the Army will increasingly consist of fast, smart, and diversified soldiers. “We want people who can think,”
he said; that is important “to reduce the loss of life.” With the increase in technology and its incorporation into
the Army, academic aptitude is also becoming more important. Davidson ROTC cadets, according to Vavra, are important to the Army
for their abilities and well-rounded backgrounds. Vavra sees Davidson’s ROTC program as not only preserving a piece of the school’s
heritage, but also as preparing a next generation of leaders for a question at the basis of officer training: “How
will you take charge?”

Ada Jenkins tutoring program in midst of successful first year
By Catherine Turner
By Carrie Arthur
Sallie McMurray
Staff Writer

While some students think that the town of Davidson consists only of the College and Main Street, others leave this
sheltered environment every week to make a difference in children’s lives at the Ada Jenkins Center. Twenty-three first- through fifth-graders
from Davidson Elementary School participate in the program, which began this fall. All of the students were recommended by their
teachers as being below the average reading and grade levels. Last semester, 37 Davidson students served as tutors for the
program. This number should increase due to the large positive response of Davidson students at the Volunteer Fair. Last week,
65 Davidson students — most of whom were new volunteers — attended training sessions for the Center.

Catherine Turner ‘93, coordinator of the tutoring program, says the mission of the program “is to be a positive and
a safe environment for learning.” This objective is accomplished through tutoring and enrichment activities. Tutors help the students with their
homework and with extra sheets designed for their special needs. Enrichment activities, Turner’s “next step of improving the program,” include
dance on Tuesday for the first-graders and art and recreation on Fridays. Although Turner plans these activities “to be fun,”
she also “feels that students learn different skills — thinking skills as well as dexterity.”

For now, because of the large number of new volunteers, Turner thinks that they have enough volunteers. After she matches
each new tutor with an individual student, she wants to involve preschool students in the program and “have more enrichment
activities that are field trip-type things: going to basketball games (and) Discovery Place.” Turner thinks that the program may need
more volunteers later, but they “aren't ready for that yet.” Turner also hopes to involve the students’ elementary school tutors
in the program, because “I really feel that children who are really needy, like these kids are, emotionally needy, don’t
need to have a different person for a tutor at school, a reading buddy, a lunch buddy, a Big Buddy,
and an after-school tutor.” Turner feels that it would be more beneficial to the child if one person could fulfill
all of these roles. She realizes the enormous time commitment but thinks that “it makes it a whole lot better
for the kid.”

Of the many advantages of the program, Turner believes that the children benefit most from “the positive role models that
they get from the college students.” “(The children) think college students are so cool,” said Turner. “They imitate them and
want to be like them.” Turner hopes that the example set by the tutors will influence the students to become
tutors themselves. In fact, Turner’s former little sister (from when Turner was a Davidson student), now tutors at the Center.
Another benefit is the students’ improved grades. Turner is proud of the improvement, but she believes that the Center is
only one contributor. “So much goes into a kid’s education: the teachers, the classroom setting, the parent involvement.”

Tutoring benefits not only the students, but also the tutors. “When a kid says thank you to you, holds your
hand, those little things just make you really happy,” said Turner. “Kids love so unconditionally, it’s just beautiful.” Turner also
feels that tutoring allows the Davidson students to feel as if they “are part of a community that is greater
than the College.”

In the future, Turner would like to include more children in the program. “There are a lot of children in
this community who would like to be in this program,” she said. The current limit is 25 children, due to
the small number of volunteers when the program began. Right now, Turner is “weighing the consequences of having more students
come in during the year, because it’s a hard group of kids to mesh with, in general. But if I
have enough volunteers, I might add some more kids.” Next year, Turner definitely wants to include more students.

Turner emphasizes the importance of training for the tutors. All tutors participate in an orientation, which involves learning about the
mission of the program, how to interact and discipline children, and what the expectations are for the volunteers. The new
tutors will then go through further training, which Turner hopes to continue throughout the semester. She wants to present programs
about signs of child abuse, reading skills, and other pertinent information, as well as distribute photocopies of articles about working
with children.

Although the program has not completed its first year, it has made a positive impact upon the students’ lives —
an impact that Davidson students helped foster.

HELP WANTED
Men/Women earn $375 weekly processing/assembling Medical I.D. Cards at home. Immediate openings, your local area. Experience unnecessary, will train. Call
Medicard 1-541-386-5290 Ext. 118M

Be a business success before you graduate. Avon needs savvy Sales reps. Call Gloria 609-871-0542
