_THE DAVIDSONIAN —_

(Schedule of Athletic Events For 9/15 - 9/22)

9/15
Women’s Soccer - 7:00 PM Furman @ Davidson
Volleyball - 7:00 PM UNCG @ Davidson
Men’s Soccer - 6:15 PM Liberty @ Davidson

9/16
Sally McMurray
By Setu Davis
Staff Writer

Representing Davidson College with full Wildcat pride during this fall season is the field hockey team. This group of sports
standouts played a hard-fought match against Radford College last Wednesday, dropping a tough 4-2 decision. Radford matched up well against
the Wildcats and scored three first-half goals that placed Davidson in a tough position. The goals scored by Radford’s Laura
Morrow with 13:40 remaining and Amy Lorigan with 12:58 remaining were strong attacks on the Wildcat defense. Finally, Radford’s Sasha
Ilkovick scored with 6:49 remaining off an assist by Laura Morrow.

Entering into the second half, the Wildcats needed to respond. They met that challenge, fighting their way back into the
game with two goals. Sarah Jacob, a freshman from Fredericksburg, Va., scored on an assist by sophomore Jennie Gold with
31:34 remaining in the second half. Her goal was followed six minutes later by Gold, scored with 25:56 remaining. Standing
at 3-2, the Wildcats were back in the game. Eleven minutes later, Radford struck the final, decisive blow of the
game with Rachel Wood’s goal with 14:35 remaining. The game ended in a 4-2 loss for the ‘Cats.

In the end, Radford outshot the Cats 17-12. Davidson’s two goalies, Nancy Livingston and Amanda Mordavsky, played well combining for
ten saves. The Wildcats’ junior goalie Nancy Livingston had seven saves and allowed three goals in the first half, while
freshman Amanda Mordavsky played the second half and had three saves to one allowed goal. Radford’s goalie Brooke Peterson had
five saves. The shots outside the circle for both teams were even at three apiece, and the penalty corners were
closely matched at nine for Davidson and seven for Radford. Jennie Gold and junior Kim Ceci led the Wildcats with
four shots inside the circle each. Other contributors for the Wildcats included senior Amy Lamoureux, junior Kim Ceci, and sophomore
Lea Jaegar, all of whom had shots in the circle. Davidson’s next game is at Catawba on Tuesday afternoon at
4:30.

9/18
Men’s Soccer - 7:00 PM Georgia Southern @ Davidson
Promotion - Village Cupboard Gift Certificates

9/19
Men’s & Women’s Cross Country - 9:00 AM Davidson Alumni Invitational
Women’s Soccer - 4:00 PM Morehead State @ Davidson

9/20
Volleyball - 2:00 PM East Tennessee State @ Davidson
Promotion - Carolina Cones Gift Certificates

Commentary
By Matt Clifford
Guest Writer

My father grew up worshipping men who strapped on black cleats on sweltering Tuesday afternoons under a New York sun
and tossed a white leather ball on a field of grass. They were gods to him, some otherworldly creatures that
came out to battle wits and strength every summer and bid farewell in October under the auspices of winter. They
wielded wooden sticks and swatted the white leather balls into the sky, out of the reach of a child’s eyes
as the ball faded against the pale white sky. Wearing gloves of battered leather, these boys of summer plucked the
balls from the sky as if they had orchestrated its every dip and carry by the strings of a marionette.
On fields of golden grass and crisp base paths, these giants played in the summer of my father’s youth.

They played on hallowed fields like the Polo Grounds in Queens, New York, where into the glove of Willie Mays
would-be triples went to die. These men played baseball, America’s pastime, that sport that all youth grows up with on
fields behind schoolhouses all over the country. They played it like no others could ever emulate. These men, men like
Ted Williams, Frank Robinson, Lou Gehrig, Sandy Koufax, Don Larsen, and Roger Maris were above life itself in the summertime
heat as young America tuned into radios in cafes or their own homes. A select few lived near a ballpark,
but of course never had the pocket change to buy even bleacher seats. You could find these hooligans peering under
fences and vaulting over walls to catch a glimpse of Mantle’s shoulder, or Campanella’s catcher’s mitt. These kids wasting away
the summers were our parents. They played little league ball with aspirations of Ebbets Field, and some made it, where
others just slept in the outfield.

In the summer of 1961, everyone was enraptured with the game of baseball. In the other world, America was embroiled
in the Cold War, with missile threats in Cuba and tensions abound in cold white offices in urban towers. But
on the fields of gold in Yankee Stadium in 1961, one man with a wooden bat captured everyone’s attention. Roger
Maris was a calm and quiet boyish man from Fargo, North Dakota. His stern face with the crew cut made
him seem more like one of the businessmen so frightened with the world around than a ballplayer. He strode around
the base paths with impunity sixty times in 161 games in the summer of 1961. People were either amazed at
his feat or enraged that he stood next to the immortal Babe Ruth in the record books for the most
round trippers in a season. He was not a public darling. The media mauled Maris with questions about his ability.and
worthiness to follow Babe Ruth’s footsteps placed in 1927. Nonetheless, on the last day of the season, Roger Maris, clad
in Yankee pinstripes, swung his mighty bat and lifted the baseball out of the reach of the onlooking outfielders. He
had placated the mighty Ruth and baseball’s gloried record was his with home run number sixty-one. Roger Maris was my
father’s hero. My dad was a senior in high school, not much younger than myself. Impressionable and naive, my dad
longed to be in New York for that memorable day when Maris made history. Removed from the scene like so
many other boys in the nation, he turned inside to see Maris swing and connect on the pitch. Playing it
over and over in his mind, my father placed Maris on a pedestal no other man has set foot to.
The summer flowed swiftly past him though, and the moment of Maris’ blast was lost in antiquity. My father and
I both follow baseball frequently. Watching a ballgame, we lose ourselves in incomplete sentences and comments about that swing, that
pitch, that catch. Amid calls for peanuts and soft drinks, the game of baseball consumes us.

This summer as well as the summer of 1961, baseball consumes America. It is no longer our nation’s pastime. Too
many free agents, salary caps, waivers, and signing bonuses have clouded baseball and all sports into an enterprise rather than
a game. The youth no longer play baseball in little leagues like they used to. We’ve been lost for so
long in a world of distractions. A world of television, multi-million dollar movies, and too many images to process has
engulfed us. We no longer have the time, it seems. But this summer, time has made itself available to us
to become enraptured with the game of baseball once again.

It was not four summers ago that baseball players decided that they did not want to play anymore, or at
least not under current playing conditions and salaries. They quit our pastime. Could Maris and Williams have quit their game
for money? They probably could not have afforded it. In September of 1994, baseball left us alone, without a Fall
Classic, without our gods of summer. Baseball has been lost to us since then, but this summer one man, just
as Maris did in 1961, has brought the game back to America.

Mark David McGwire is a hulk of a man. He stands six foot something and even on television towers over
all our imaginations. In a game which evolved into more show than statistic, adoring the stolen base and the flashy
smile more than the double through the gap in right-center field, Mark McGwire seems plucked from the past and stuck
in a modern ballplayer’s uniform. He is the old-fashioned ballplayer who can hit and field, and hit and hit. He
is a quiet and genuine man in the thirty-seventh year of his life, and this summer, he lived on the
dreams of us all.

McGwire is a classy guy. A one of a kind father in a day when too many men lay claim
to fatherhood early and leave their children without a care for the world of irresponsibility. McGwire is a consummate team
player and a charitable man as well, establishing several charities in Saint Louis where he plays. This summer though, he
attacked the record no one thought would ever be touched again, that of Roger Maris’s sixty-one home runs.

On Tuesday night, McGwire stood at sixty-one. The script was magnificent. Saint Louis on a cool September night. Forty-seven thousand
fans poised to glimpse history fly over the wall in left field. Baseball was indeed in the air. It was
in the air even here at Davidson, in the air at my home, and in the air surrounding Roger Maris’s
grave, where he has laid since 1985. Roger Maris’s sons were on hand that night to see what might happen,
what they feared could happen. Their father, still snubbed by an asterisk placed next to his record that he had
more games to achieve the record than Ruth, snubbed also by the Baseball Hall of Fame for thirty years, was
now in danger of being erased from number sixty-one.

At eighteen minutes past nine here on the east coast, McGwire sent a pitch on a line drive into history.
His ball curled around the foul pole and over the left field wall at Busch Stadium in St. Louis. Number
sixty-two flashed on scoreboards in St. Louis, and McGwire giddily crashed around the bags, stumbling in ecstasy toward home plate.
The ball he hit raced into time, past Mike Schmidt and Roberto Clemente, past Carlton Fisk and Fenway Park, past
the Dodgers of Brooklyn and the Braves of Milwaukee, his ball spanned all of baseball lore and came to rest
in the area beyond the left field wall at Yankee Stadium where a plaque commemorates Roger Maris and the other
great Yankees. I can see it resting on a bed of perennials below Maris’s bronze figure. Maris leans to pick
it up and tosses the ball with ease into the sky. Maris smiles that a man such as McGwire has
surpassed him. Not because he was better, but because he is worthy. Because in Maris’s eyes, McGwire is a hero.
