3 __THE DAVIDSONIAN — Track teams rally at end of SoCon Championships, Sawyer named All-Conference

By Bratton Holmes
Sports Editor

At the Southern Conference Championships hosted by VMI, the Davidson track teams managed to avoid a rainy day in more ways than one. The overcast skies were kind enough not to unleash a downpour and delay the events. Meanwhile, both the men’s and women’s teams rallied at the end of the weekend and in the final events improved their place in the conference standings.

The men’s team registered plenty of season-best performances in the early events but gained no points in the meet, which awards points to the top six finishers in each event. Beginning the list of season bests was Ade Artis, who cleared 5’10” in the high jump. This placed him in a tie for eighth in the event. Michael Albert followed suit by running a season-best time in the 200m with a time of :23.88. In a very impressive effort in the 400m, three Wildcat runners — Albert, Artis, and Addam Marcotte — each posted season-best times. Marcotte, who had the best time of the three, missed placing by just under two seconds, and the ‘Cats still had no points.

Keith Chapman nearly changed that in the 800m. Chapman ran a season-best time and also registered the fourth-best time in Davidson history. Chapman finished with a time of 1:55.21, missing a spot in the top six by .44 seconds. Thomas McElveen also set a season-best time in the 800m and was only seconds off of his season-best in the 1500m as well. Like Chapman, Brent Ferrell narrowly missed a spot in the top six. In the 5000m, he ran the third-best time in Davidson history. It was not his season-best, though. Ferrell’s season-best time stands as the second-best 5000m time in Davidson history. He placed eighth in the event. Pat Burchett was the second Wildcat runner in the 5000m and also posted a season-best time.

The team’s saving grace was the relay events. Both the 4x100m and the 4x400m relay teams posted season bests. The 4x100m team, composed of Albert, Marcotte, Stan Baker, and Steve Hsieh, claimed sixth in the event. The 4x400m team of Chapman, Marcotte, Albert, and Artis also claimed sixth to give Davidson the second of its two points in the championships. The men posted a total of ten season-best performances over the weekend and finished in the top ten in seven different events. Assistant coach Dave Foss stated that this was Davidson’s best performance that he had seen in four years as a runner and one as a coach. He was also thrilled with the come-from-behind efforts of the relay teams, which avoided a shutout for Davidson. The Wildcats finished ninth of ten teams in the conference, ahead of UNCGreensboro and trailing eighth place Wofford by only five points.

The women’s championship began much as the men’s did, with Davidson narrowly missing top-six finishes in the early events. Yolanda Kirby and Kristy Neosges claimed seventh and eighth in the javelin but netted no points for the team. Unlike the men, the women’s team avoided a great deal of frustration by earning points before the end of the championships. The first points came from Jamilah Sawyer in what was clearly the best performance of the weekend for either team. Sawyer ran a :15.00 in the 100m high hurdles to claim second in the event, earning her All-Conference honors. The time also was one of the top ten results in the Davidson record book.

Smyth Bitter added to the team’s point total by claiming fifth in the 400m. Her time of :60.26 is also among the top ten Davidson times ever. Unfortunately, the team slipped into yet another almost-but-not-quite phase as Sawyer finished seventh in the 400m hurdles, missing sixth place by .09 seconds. Bitter and Jill Neumayer also narrowly missed the field of six in the 1500m, in which they finished eighth and tenth. Clare Frey and Kate Feldmeier were also in contention in the 1500m and both finished within two seconds of Neumayer’s time of 4:57. The final standings for the event showed Feldmeier in 11th and Frey in 13th.

The women gained no more points until the final events of the weekend. Then came Davidson’s second come-from-behind effort. Sawyer, Miranda Todd, Suzy Burr, and Machelle Borders placed fifth in the 4x100m relay. But that wasn’t all. The team’s final points came in the 4x400m relay, in which Bitter, Sawyer, Neumayer, and Frey placed fifth. This was the tenth result of the day which went into the record books as one of the ten best in Davidson history. The finish in the 4x100m gave the Wildcats 14 points in the championships and secured sixth place of eight teams. Davidson finished ahead of Wofford and UNC-Greensboro and trailed fifth place Furman by 20 points.

INTERNATIONAL

Golf team

JOB SKILLS

New professional M.A. in International Affairs or Interamerican Studies prepares you fully for exciting careers: (environmental studies, public health, government, international organizations, international media, business, and the social sciences). Study with leading experts at a major international research university in a thriving international city. Free details.

Golf from page 16

Southern Conference Golf Tournament

Southern Conference Golf Tournament

Team results

Place Team 1st 2nd 3rd Total
1. East Tennessee State 289 282 304 875
2. Wofford 290 281 305 876
3. Furman 283 300 307 890
T4. Davidson 299 306 296 901
T4. UT-Chattanooga 292 294 314 901
6. UNC-Greensboro 306 293 303 902
7. Georgia Southern 293 301 309 903
8. Appalachian State 309 303 307 919
9. The Citadel 322 300 305 927

Individual results

Place Name 1st 2nd 3rd Total
3. Jason Lina 71 76 70 217
24. David Alexander 77 77 74 228
T29. Sean Davidson 77 78 77 232
T36. Andy McDaniel 71 77 84 235
39. Austin Zeigler 86 76 75 237

Six Davidson individual results

The top six were out of reach. Six teams in the tournament could have been expected to defeat Davidson. Only three of them did. Davidson trailed by two strokes and finished in seventh place. Finishing in sixth was UNCG, which the Wildcats defeated for the first time this season to avenge four losses. Lina’s performance was clearly critical to the Wildcats' comeback to claim fourth. His scores of 71-76-70-217 gave him the third-best individual performance of the tournament. Number 16 was a difficult 400-yard par 4. The entire fairway was downhill, and the hole ended with a tough peninsula green with water on both the front and back. Fortunately, he stayed relaxed.Western Carolina spent the weeks leading up to the tournament fine-tuning his swing. He had been having trouble with the motion of his right knee in the swing and was showing signs that it was still a problem through the third round. That is, until 16. After the 15th hole, the outlook for Lina’s individual finish, and the team’s finish, was grim. Lina double-bogied 15 and appeared to be having problems with his swing. Fortunately, he somehow managed to keep his cool. He avoided the water and birdied the hole. He then rode the momentum and birdied the 18th hole, which was crucial for both Lina and the team. It was a short par 5 that many of the golfers were reaching in two. Instead of playing too aggressively, Lina chose to lay up. He hit a sand wedge shot to the green and landed it within ten feet of the hole and made the birdie putt to finish two under in the third round. The final standings will show how important those three birdies were. Davidson tied for fourth with a score of 901. UNCG finished with 902, and Georgia Southern shot 903. Those three strokes proved to be the difference between a tie for fourth place and a seventh-place finish. Thanks to a miraculous final round and a solid tournament from Jason Lina, the team finished higher in the tournament than any Davidson team had since 1974.

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1998

Guys, don’t worry, there is no need to waste your money on those supplements or products. Girls, this is an educational tool for you just as much as for the guys. I am revealing a secret that has laid hidden in the male instinctual process for countless decades. This secret is yours now. InstaFlex. It is neither a prosthetic nor a drug, but rather a technique coupled with the Y chromosome. For some, however, the instinct may lay dormant. I have therefore researched this complex facet of the male body. A guy may be standing in a public place, let us say the salad bar at the Commons, for example. A female may pass him and hold his arm in greeting, maybe even exchange a few polite hellos and how-are-yous. The female continues to add more Chinese noodles to his salad. Did you miss it? InstaFlex is that fast. It may be necessary to see that in slow motion because the response does violate several laws of science. Male is at the salad bar. Male senses female. Male estimates ETFT (Estimated Time of Feminine Touch). BAM!!! ... InstaFlex — the biceps flex for however long the feminine hand remains on the arm. With the InstaFlex gene, the bicep muscles react in less than 25 milliseconds, which is quite astounding because, according to medical researchers at the University of Washington, under regular conditions, the arm muscle can only react as fast as 50 milliseconds.

It occurs most often and with the most prolonged status on a dance floor. This challenges a guy to use his InstaFlex technique to its fullest capabilities. A girl may have her hands on the fellow’s neck, at which point he makes sure his shoulders are square and his back straight. This is elementary form. Her hands may slide down from his neck towards the front of his chest or shoulders. It’s like a whole little assembly line in the muscle fibers. Little muscles screaming down the line to big muscles: ‘Triceps, be alert! She’s coming! With her projected path, she will arrive in approximately 4.8 seconds — be prepared!’

Ok, guys. While right now you might be at “put-put-put-putput” in the appearance category, only a few simple steps are needed to get your system sounding like a sweet “virrroooo000000m.” Very simple. Let me introduce you to Johnny. Johnny lifts weights. Johnny weighs a scrawny 150 pounds. Johnny can only bench 135 pounds twice. But everyone thinks Johnny is 200 pounds because of his appearance. One T-shirt would give Johnny the appearance of a scrawny individual. For this reason, he always wears at least two T-shirts under a sweatshirt. This puts on at least 15 pounds of muscle to the untrained eye. Johnny then puts a can of the newest, highest quality protein mix on the floor, with the little label picture of the grossly muscled man, always facing out toward the weight lifting area. He must drink his protein mix in full view of all those in the room and make them fully aware of how terrible the product tastes. One must make these sacrifices if they wish to be as big as Johnny. Johnny must slap hands with or pat on the back all those guys who truly are bigger than him, while at the same time peering out of the corner of his eye to make sure that the volleyball team is watching him associate with all those big guys. He might discuss a new technique or protein drink. At this time, the girls may receive a wink or a pointed finger in acknowledgment. Those guys who are smaller in size than Johnny are reduced to hearing a mere “yo” or “what’s up” uttered softly out of the corner of his mouth. It is strength by association, and Johnny cannot associate with the weak ones.

At this point in the workout, Johnny must walk to random destinations in the weight room while stretching each of his muscles. This is an integral part of the appearance formulation. Johnny must perform several of the practiced techniques uniformly, without falter. 1) He must keep a steady supply of air in his chest as he paces. The inhaled air expands the chest and also has a way of deepening the voice. For any true appearance worrier, this is an elementary art form. 2) He must stretch as if his muscles were too large to allow complete flexibility. This, again, is quite elementary. 3) It is imperative, and I repeat, IMPERATIVE that Johnny walk as if he had testicles the size of watermelons between his legs. This promotes a “jock-like” effect that aids any aspiring weight room guy in appearance. To practice, one may strap watermelons between their legs and walk around at home to get the feel. I have researched these techniques thoroughly. None indicate any side effects, other than possible chafing due to the watermelon. I have come to the final conclusion that it is possible to appear muscular without working hard in the weight room.