Alan Edmonds is a member of the class of ’77 and was known as an outrageous prankster. Here he recounts
some of his fond Davidson athletic memories and the humorous role he had in one of them.

Sitting in the Greensboro Coliseum with 1.3 seconds left and Davidson holding a four-point lead and the ball, it occurred
to Cam and me that there was no way the Wildcats could lose the tournament. We deserved to bask in
the realization that victory was nigh, because for most of the past 25 years our cheering and support had produced
nothing but agony. One night 22 years ago, we took matters into our own inept hands.

Our freshman year, 1973-74, Davidson finished a disappointing 18-9, losing in the tournament semifinals to Richmond. The year was highlighted
by wins over Number Ten South Carolina, St. John’s, Cincinnati, Furman (by 16, on the road), Wake Forest, and Virginia
(both on the road). But early conference losses knocked us out of the regular season race and the surprising loss
to the Spiders, a team we had beaten by 21 late in the season, made the year a disappointment. Without
warning, Coach Terry Holland left to go to Virginia. “Good riddance!” we said at the time. The youthful coach never
made his charges play up to their full potential, and his record was slowly descending every year. The players demanded
longtime assistant Bo Brickels be promoted to head coach. The student body joined the chorus. Bo was the apparent coach
behind the scenes, berating refs and encouraging players, while the taciturn Holland watched games with the enthusiasm of an elder
at a Cemetery Committee meeting. With many returning veterans and the deadwood eliminated at the top, the Wildcats were certain
to return to their lofty status of the ‘60s.

We should have known something was wrong when the traditional season opening rout of Wofford turned into a close game.
The Cats recovered to knock off Ohio State, and we knew we were on our way. Seven straight losses followed.
But included among them were losses to defending NCAA champion NC State, UCLA, Notre Dame, and Princeton. A home victory
over St. John’s buoyed our spirits, but the rest of the season plunged into stupefying horror. We became a conference
whipping-boy, the most embarrassing loss to East Carolina at home by 32. Unknown Donnie Owens led the Pirates with 15
of 16 shooting from the field, testimony to what can be achieved when no defender gets within ten feet of
a man with a basketball. The season ended with a pathetic loss to William & Mary. I was one of
about ten Davidson fans there, having been drafted to be a cheerleader since I met three rigorous conditions: 1) I
was willing to go; 2) I had a car; and 3) I could fit into one of the pairs of
polyester bell-bottom pants worn by our male cheerleaders.

After the game, we went to the team’s suite of rooms in the Holiday Inn. We were expecting to see
an irate and distraught Coach Brickels, but he was not the least bit concerned he had presided over a 7-19
season, the first losing record in 14 years. Brickels was probably upbeat because he and his staff had assembled the
“Super Six,” the most ballyhooed freshman class in school history. They ran the gamut from a point guard to center
Tom Dore. Prognosticators, alumni, and students knew the next year would return the Cats to glory. It would have been
advisable for our rising senior incumbent point guard not to grow his marijuana plants in an open window in his
Main Street apartment. When some faculty widow surmised they weren’t tomato plants she felt compelled to report the crop to
the Town Police, who arrested the player and his roommate, a graduating player whose hobby was listed in the media
guide as “horticulture.” The point guard’s status was unclear until practice started in the fall, but with the transfusion of
the “Super Six,” no one was unduly concerned. It bothered us a little when the point guard was discovered to
be a chain smoker who had trouble completing the pre-practice wind sprints. Dore, at 7’2” Davidson’s tallest player ever, had
little quickness and less muscle. Art Leahy, a 6'4” shooter, would nail jumpers and drive around his teammates with ease,
but then be banished to the bench for some unknown shortcoming. There he would join Tom Verlin, a 6’3” senior
guard whom the coaching staff regarded as overweight and out of shape. In his few moments of scrimmage time, he
was unstoppable. The team looked disorganized in practice, but we kept the faith that Brickels would pull it all together
when the season began. The opener with Wofford was a blowout, and we returned to our rooms giddy with plans
of going to the NCAA tournament. We should have stayed in our rooms. We lost early and often. The team
was neither experienced nor youthful, and instead changed lineups constantly. Whoever got a hot hand played for a while. Our
defense was terrible, our hustle even worse. The “Super Six” were mediocre, at best. The veterans seemed stuck in a
self-induced haze.

We had a televised home game late in the year against William & Mary. A few students who remained fans
concluded that there must be a coaching change. Thursday night, over a few pitchers at the 900 Room (this was
legal then; the drinking age was 18), we concluded Saturday’s game was the perfect chance to show our disgust over
the sorry state of the team and incite the distant alumni and fans who would be watching the game. Johnston
Gym was closed on Friday night about 9:00 p.m. to let the gym be set up for the game. After
leaving a bathroom window propped open, one conspirator was boosted into the gym to open the door for the rest
of us (this was possibly illegal, but was tolerated by the College to the point of being a rite of
passage... our Hall Counselors showed us how to do it). We carried several banners, including ones reading “Bo Must Go,”
“Kick the Brick,” and “Art for Art’s Sake” (a plea for additional playing time for Art Leahy). Once in the
gym, someone found the ladder used to replace the light bulbs hanging from the ceiling. While Pearl and I (Baby
Al) spotted, Stretch, living up to his nickname, climbed the ladder and tied two banners to the rafters. Boris, Butch,
and Cam secured the other banners to seemingly impregnable positions. Westy and Mad Dog were assigned to hide the ladder
so the highest banners could not be removed before the game. After our raid, we returned to the dorm for
another night of celibate conversation which lasted until almost dawn. We jumped out of bed in time for lunch and
then headed to the game. The gym had been restored to its bland perfection. All the banners, even those on
the rafters, were gone. The game proceeded.as did 20 others in the 5-21 season, except we yelled even more loudly
than usual at the Brickels’s strange substitutions and misguided defenses. Later, Westy and Mad Dog admitted to being less than
zealous in hiding the ladder, leaving it on Richardson Field rather than taking it to the end of the soccer
field as we had agreed. No one was angry at Westy and Mad Dog because Coach Brickels was dispatched as
soon as the final horn blew in our loss to VMI in the tournament, anyway. We felt the dedicated zaniness
and bizarreness of our actions had to help convince the Athletic Department and Administration Bo had to go. Years later
I received a list of my activities at Davidson from the alumni office. “Bo Must Go Committee, 3” was prominently
listed. (On my list, anything was prominent.) Although I asked to delete any incorrect or superfluous activities, I hope the
“Bo Must Go Committee, 3” is still there. (Whoever entered this information in the computer was gullible. Stretch once listed
his religion as “Pagan” and the next year, maybe still, his religion was listed as “Pag.”)

Now that the statute of limitations has run, I can update you as to the whereabouts of the perpetrators. Boris,
who is coined “Art for Art’s sake” and actually listened to opera, is a small-town attorney in South Carolina. Pearl
and I are attorneys in Charlotte, working for the state and county, respectively. Cam is a business consultant, Butch a
CPA, and Stretch a chemist, after having handled chemical weapons as an Army officer for years. Westy, after setting records
for missed classes, late assignments, and brilliant papers and essays with minimal research and no sleep, teaches philosophy at a
major university. Mad Dog does the same thing he did over 20 years ago, talking glibly on politics and public
events to church skippers on Sunday mornings. Except now he’s paid by the Fox News Channel and invited back by
the College to speak at reunions. As a group, we attend as many games as we can. Those who are
far away follow by television and the internet. We are proud of the character and accomplishments of the current team
and Coach McKillop. I introduced Stretch to McKillop at last year’s reunion and Stretch left singing his praises. Good thing,
because we were intimidated by the height of the rafters in Belk Gym.

Rosenberg off-base in commentary

David Rosenberg smokes crack. That is the only explanation for his delusional, completely fictitious article on coed softball that I
can think of. First of all, Dave, the allusion to the bunny from our team name of “The Penthouse Players”
is a stretch. Although this may be difficult for a football player like you to comprehend, the Intramural Powers-That-Be prefer
team names with some semblance of taste. Now, I’m sorry that you idolize. Since you’ve forgotten, I’ll take this opportunity
to remind you that you chose to be part of a coed team. The fact that you were on a
coed roster instead of an all-male team is your own problem rather than the problem of the audience of this
fine publication. You also conveniently forgot to mention that your buddy (who, by the way, recently told me how much
he enjoys playing on the team) managed to bring in a few home runs batting left-handed. Blaming your inept batting
skills on the IMAC softball rules is weak. Not to mention your slackeritis, which is what the trainers at Baker
should have correctly diagnosed. They also should have prescribed some medication for the strong traces of conformity that are eating
away at what’s left of your heart.

I had a bad trip and imagined a “spirit dinner... with music of Indigo Girls harmonizing in the background.” Don’t
kid yourself, Dave — you do not understand. You not only degraded a female’s competitive nature, but you also insulted
the role of women in athletic endeavors. Perhaps the drug-induced haze explains why you felt it necessary to slam highly
successful female musical artists such as the Indigo Girls and Sarah McLaughlin and hide behind a quote from Arnold, a
manly man — one I’m sure you look up to and crew teams. I’m sure this is a little intimidating
to you, Dave. Why don’t you run down and hide in your fraternity house? I’ll be at Harris Teeter buying
groceries so I can work on my culinary skills. Then I can start shopping for the Barbie Dollhouse of my
future daughter’s dreams — after all, we wouldn’t want her playing sports, now, would we?

Here’s the deal — I need your help. So please read on. I am a Bonner scholar, and since November,
as part of my ten-hour per week service commitment, I have tutored a sixth-grade student in reading and math. And
as this year draws to a close, I have had to make several trying and emotional decisions. One of those
decisions has been to stop tutoring the student next year, who attends Coulwood Middle School in West Charlotte. Yes, this
is a request that goes out to every student on campus. Asking for your help. Looking for a replacement tutor.
On the days when I realize how I affect and benefit this child’s education, I take more in satisfaction than
I give in instruction. As much as I want to continue tutoring regularly, I cannot. And that causes more frustration
for me than a sixth grader ever can. Next year, I will not have the time to give each week
but will remain a mentor for the next three years. Here’s the commitment — you tutor twice a week for
at least a year, and you need your own transportation. I will introduce you to both the student and the
volunteer coordinator at Coulwood. All you have to do is call me or e-mail me. I am not willing to
give up yet and need only one dedicated individual to help shape one vulnerable, at-risk child — one student whom
you can influence and guide toward success. Interested? Curious? Here is where I need your help. This “Here’s the commitment
— you tutor twice a week for at least a year, and you need your own transportation.” Both? Then please
call me at 896-6133 or e-mail me at dafarnuin@davidson.edu. And, most of all, someone who is willing to commit to
the student for their remaining time at Davidson. I, myself, have violated the patience stipulation most of all — for
tutoring is frustrating, and success is measured in tiny steps. Although sometimes I drive back to Davidson exhausted, the student
still needs a tutor — a person who is a patient, kind instructor, and yes, I was purposefully vague. Call
if you're interested, and I will tell you all you want and need to know. If you have questions, call
or write as well. And if I don’t know the answer, I’ll find out. I need your help. So does
one sixth-grade student. You can help. You can commit.
