THE DAVIDSONIAN News TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1998

Knox leads repair workshop

By ROBERT TROTTMAN
Staff Writer

Last Sunday, a group of seven women and one physical plant worker met in the Baker parking lot to learn
more about their cars. The course was given by Mark Knox, a maintenance mechanic at Davidson. The truck used for
the demonstrations was a '79 Toyota owned by Knox.

Knox said he had thought about writing something up, but thought that hands-on experience was better, so that participants could
actually see what he was talking about. His truck was driven up on small ramps, so everyone could see the
things he would tell them about.

The first bit of information concerned the least mechanical aspect of the whole workshop: books. Knox showed two great sources
of information that everyone should have. The first of these was the owner's manual. Information can be found there about
the operation of a car or truck, and other pieces of information such as which type of transmission fluid to
use and how many quarts of oil a vehicle takes.

The second book, not as widely owned as an owner's manual, was “Haynes Automotive Repair Manual.” These manuals, based on
a complete engine tear-down, contain detailed information on a vehicle and are made for everything from Dodge Dakotas to Ford
Explorers to Triumph TR7s. Not all repair shops are honest, and these manuals can increase knowledge of one’s own car
or truck so he or she understands what the mechanic is saying when something goes wrong.

The workshop then moved from books to the engine. The first thing covered was the belts of an engine. Belts
run things like the alternator, power steering pump, and air conditioning. Knox said it is always good to check the
belts once in a while. A broken belt will strand someone right where it breaks. Checking can enable someone to
spot a bad belt and have it replaced before it breaks. Checking belts is easy; just look for cracks or
deterioration. Belts should be changed every two to three years due to inevitable deterioration.

The discussion then moved to the corner of the engine compartment, the battery. Maintenance-free batteries do not require opening the
battery to add water every once in a while, as old ones used to. Knox explained that a battery will
last longer and perform better with a little baking soda and a good scrubbing with a wire brush to remove
any corrosion. Of course, everyone should have jumper cables in his or her car at all times, whether for oneself
or someone else in need of a jump.

The next thing on the list was tires. Mark quickly went over how to check tire pressure. A vehicle's recommended
tire pressure should be on the inside of the door, or on the door post between the driver's and passenger's
door. The wear pattern on the tires can indicate whether the tires are inflated correctly. If a tire wears more
on the inside, the tires are over-inflated, while if tires wear in the middle, they need more air pressure. Other
wear patterns, such as wearing on one side, are due to an alignment problem. A few otherPoints were also discussed,
such as distributor caps and what weight of oil to put in a car. Mark also showed those present how
to change their own oil. Also mentioned was Rain-X. When applied to windows, Rain-X makes rain bead up and fly
off windows. With this freshly applied to the windshield, windshield wipers are not necessary.

WALT off the air for now
Station experiencing technical difficulties
By Morgan Downer
Staff Writer

Everyone who has tuned into WALT since spring break, do not panic! You have not been added to the ranks
of listeners who cannot pick up the signal no matter how you twist your antennae, and no, the listening radius
has not been downsized for efficiency, and so far, the FCC has greater concerns than knocking WALT off the airwaves.
Instead, WALT is experiencing technical difficulties.

The problems began the Monday after spring break, when after a few shifts, it was discovered that the signal was
not going out. Needless to say, for a radio station, dead air constitutes a four-alarm all-out emergency. Any DJs who
showed up were officially dismissed until further notice. After some frantic investigation, the problem was isolated to the transmitter on
top of Belk. The Bell South pull line, which connects the Johnston Gym-based station to Belk was, for lack of
a better term, unplugged.

Unfortunately, the real problems became apparent when the station managers tried to plug it back in. The set-up was extra-legal,
though it was an honest mistake. So the bill for a new line was presented to WALT, along with the
news that the station’s monthly rates for using the new line will be raised. Fortunately, they are paying for more
than just being restored to your radios.

“The signal will be improved,” said Jennifer Simmons, the WALT program director, “and the station will sound better.” WALT also
will have the chance to take advantage of the publicity of a second grand opening, as well as any exposure
generated from this temporary hardship. While the order for the new line is in, the grand reopening may not happen
for another week or so. Also, the station’s future plans for an equipment upgrade as well as the possibility of
being broadcast in the Union will be delayed. However, this setback will not affect their eventual realization. The only real
problem that the DJs and the audience have to deal with is the waiting.

“It’s frustrating,” said Simmons. “Frustrating and unfortunate.”

FIND THINGS OUT BEFORE YOUR ROOMMATE DOES. Write for News. Call Liz (x6292)

No credit, No job, NO PARENT-SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!
No credit • bad credit • no income?
INSTANT CREDIT
Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits Up to $10,000 Within Days

STUDENTS
You Can Qualify To Receive Two of the Most Widely Used Credit Cards in The World Today!

YES!
Name
ORDER FORM
I want FeSO ZNM Credit Card immediately.
GACC, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
SIGNATURE

Tired of Being Turned Down?
Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!
