TUESDAY

Football team improves record with victory over Sewanee
By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Halftime score: Davidson 2, Sewanee 0. Yes, this is the football article. The Wildcat defense produced an epic first-half performance—including
a blocked punt recovered for a safety—against The University of the South (Sewanee) on Saturday, and Davidson was able to
emerge victorious from the overtime period to improve their record to 1-1.

Neither team’s offense could generate a scoring drive in the first half. The ‘Cats caught a break early, after quarterback
Tom Dugan’s pass was intercepted at midfield and returned for an apparent touchdown by Sewanee cornerback Jason Hamilton. The touchdown
was called back on an illegal-blocking penalty, and Sewanee drove down to Davidson’s 23 before a delay of game penalty
followed by a Wildcat sack forced the Tigers to punt.

With a little under four minutes left in the first quarter, a 3rd-down sack forced Sewanee punter Bart Pride to
attempt a punt out of his own endzone. Davidson freshman Sam Fraundorf was able to infiltrate the Tiger’s protection and
got a hand on Pride’s kick, deflecting it out of the end zone for a safety.

The second quarter saw much of the same, with neither team able to sustain a scoring drive. Sewanee received the
ball first in the second half, but were stifled again by the Davidson defense. Thanks in part to the continuing
pressure by Davidson’s special teams, Pride’s punt was shanked out of bounds, and the Wildcats assumed control of the ball
at Sewanee’s 41. Three plays later, Tom Dugan connected with Marcus McFadden for a 30-yard touchdown pass. Brian Langley tacked
on an extra point to give the ‘Cats a 9-0 lead. The Tigers roared back, though, answering with a touchdown
of their own on a 61-yard run from scrimmage by Brian Morrison, who racked up 172 yards on 30 carries
for the afternoon. A failed PAT, though, proved to be a deciding factor in the game.

A fourth-quarter Wildcat fumble on their own 20-yard line set up a 24-yard Sewanee field goal, tying the game at
nine apiece with 4:17 left to play in regulation. The teams exchanged punts for the duration of the fourth quarter.

Under NCAA rules, the overtime regulation period is structured much like that of a Davidson flickerball game. After a coin
toss, each team assumes control of the ball at the opponent’s 25-yard line on an alternating basis until one team
emerges from a round with the lead, and in turn a victory. Sewanee won the coin toss and elected to
defend. Davidson opened their first overtime drive with a four-yard run by senior running back Bryan Kern. A second down
15-yard strike by Dugan to freshman Mike Tarver brought the ‘Cats down to the Sewanee six. On first and goal,
Corey Crawford carried the ball into the end zone, but the play was called back on a holding penalty, pushing
the ‘Cats back to the 11. Two plays later, Dugan connected with Crawford for a 7-yard touchdown, Crawford’s second of
the season in as many games. Langley added the PAT, and Davidson assumed a 7-0 lead, forcing Sewanee into a
must-score situation.

Yet again, it was freshman Sam Fraundorf who came through with a crucial play for the Wildcats. On the second
play of the Tiger drive, Jon Wieland fumbled the football, and Fraundorf recovered it to end the game, bringing Davidson
their first victory of the young season.

Senior quarterback Tom Dugan handed in another impressive performance, leading the ‘Cats offensive attack with 124 yards passing and two
touchdowns. Eric Ferguson, a junior running back, led the ‘Cats on defense with 37 yards, while senior Bryan Kern added
26. But the story on this beautiful Saturday afternoon was the Wildcat defense. Though Sewanee was able to accrue 259
yards on the ground, 10 of their 15 drives were contained to under 20 yards. And just one week after
Jacksonville quarterback Gary Cooper passed for over 200 yards against the ‘Cats, Davidson held Sewanee quarterback Max Fuller to 0
yards passing. Four Wildcats had double-digit tackles—Fraundorf, Brad Boland, Clif Henry, and Bo Henderson. Wes Thornton, Freeman Belser, and Andre
Carelock each contributed 9 tackles to the effort, and DE Ben Spivey amassed 8 tackles on the day.

This stellar defensive effort surely came as no surprise to Coach Tim Landis and his staff. Back in August, Landis
predicted a much-improved defense for the Wildcats: “We wanted to make some changes personnel-wise on defense...we wanted to be more
athletic over there than we have in the past. We moved a couple of guys from the offense to the
defense, our philosophy being: When it comes down to it, defense wins championships.” The Coach also had high words of
praise for a certain up-and-coming freshman, “Sam Fraundorf, who plays the middle linebacker position...should be a big contributor to what
we’re doing.” With a team-high 11 tackles, a blocked punt for a safety, and a game-sealing fumble recovery in a
sudden-death overtime situation, Fraundorf is making Tim Landis look less like an ordinary football coach and more like Elijah.

The Wildcats will have their first home game this Saturday, when they will host Emory & Henry at 1:30 PM
on Richardson Field.

Women’s soccer team earns first victory of season
By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

The Davidson Women’s Soccer team is finally living up to their slogan and “heading in the right direction.” On Saturday
the Wildcats earned their first win of the season, easily defeating Morehead State University by a score of 4 to
1. The victory was a welcome change from their five previous losses, including a tough 2-1 defeat last Tuesday to
Southern Conference rival Furman College.

“We’re happy to get a win,” said head coach Kevin Hundley. “We played well and dominated the game. We played
well enough to win the game.” Junior midfielder Kelly Rennick was equally as pleased with the victory. “It was a
much-needed victory,” Rennick said. “Morehead is not known as a big soccer school. We just need to move forward and
take it to the next level.”

The Lady Wildcats were extremely focused heading into the Morehead State game and controlled the match from beginning to end.
Two minutes and 19 seconds into the game, freshman Carolyn Stumpf, who scored the Wildcats' first goal of the season
against East Carolina on September 5th, accepted a cross from junior and fellow midfielder Kate McKnight and kicked the ball
past MSU goalkeeper Jennifer Gordon. But Stumpf wasn’t done yet. One minute and 16 seconds later, Stumpf powered a “rocket
shot” past the keeper into the corner of the goal. MSU responded a few minutes later when #7 Sarah Vosmeier
accepted a crossing pass of her own.Shooting the ball past Davidson sophomore goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan. Although Davidson only enjoyed a
slim one-goal margin and their opponents had over 45 minutes to close the gap, the Wildcats never appeared threatened or
unnerved. According to head coach Kevin Hundley, the outcome was never really in doubt, and with 13 and a half
minutes remaining in the first half, junior midfielder Leila Wormuth seized the rebound from teammate Natalie Cox’s shot and scored
yet another Wildcat goal. The goal was Wormuth’s first of the season, and it gave Davidson a 3-1 advantage heading
into the second half. The second 45 minutes were not as fast-paced as the first half, but the Wildcats played
within themselves and did not surrender another MSU goal. And to top off their solid performance, junior forward Ginny Dye,
last year’s leader in goals scored with four, scored her first of this season with eight minutes remaining. Dye was
assisted by freshmen duo Tricia Nativi and Carolyn Stumpf.

Besides impressively garnering their first win this season, the Wildcats also demonstrated solid offensive play absent in their five previous
games. The team’s four goals doubled their season total up to that point. Individually, freshman Carolyn Stumpf made her presence
felt and undoubtedly secured herself as a key member of the Wildcat offensive unit. The 5’9” freshman from Virginia Beach,
VA had seven shots on goal and the team’s first two scores, both within the first five minutes of the
game. Stumpf’s three goals this season lead all scorers. Coach Hundley was extremely pleased with Stumpf’s play. “She did a
nice job,” Hundley said. “She had two more great opportunities in the first five minutes... We're happy she put the
ball in the goal.”

Other offensive standouts included another freshman, #23 Natalie Cox, who led the Wildcats in shot attempts with eight. Cox was
also credited with the assist to teammate Leila Wormuth’s first-half goal. Also, junior Ginny Dye showed the offensive ability which
made her last season’s leader in goals scored and runner-up in overall points. Dye attempted four shots and scored the
game’s final goal. Dye leads the Wildcats this season with 10 shots on goal. Defensively, Davidson obviously played well, only
surrendering one goal early in the first half. Goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan started for the Wildcats and played the majority of
the game. Thanks to the defense’s ability to keep MSU out of Davidson territory, Corrigan, a 5’6” sophomore from Delmar,
NY, enjoyed a fairly relaxing game. Corrigan was only forced to save two shots compared with the fifteen for the
MSU keeper.

MSU was the Wildcats’ first victim this season, but last Tuesday evening Furman College came very close to becoming Davidson’s
first mark in the win column. Furman, one of Davidson’s key Southern Conference foes, narrowly escaped with a 2-1 victory.
The game was scoreless throughout the entire first half and for the first seven minutes of the second. The teams
played a game of cat and mouse with each side passing the ball back and forth over midfield and attempting
numerous shots. Both teams had first-half opportunities but each failed to capitalize. Davidson put the pressure on with 17 minutes
left in the half but could not get a shot off. And with 5:12 remaining, #19 Amy Balsinger had an
opportunity to score on a direct kick but missed wide left.

The second half opened with a feverish pace. Goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan, who took over for first-half goalie Chesley Garrett, was
forced to make two difficult saves within the first three minutes of play. Offensively, the Wildcats had an excellent scoring
chance with 41:20 left when #5 Ginny Dye narrowly missed a wide-open net. Two minutes later, Furman took advantage of
a missed Davidson corner kick and #11 Melissa Sutton ran nearly the entire length of the field, eventually kicking the
ball past Corrigan’s diving arms. Furman enjoyed their 1-0 lead for the next 27 minutes until junior midfielder Amy Balsinger
powered a direct kick into the lower left corner past Furman keeper Melissa Barnes. The score was knotted at 1-1
with slightly over 10 minutes remaining in the contest. The tie was short-lived. Two minutes later, Kaye Brownlee of Furman
skirted past the Davidson defense and shot the ball over Corrigan’s head into the upper right corner of the net.
Brownlee’s goal was the difference in the game as the Wildcats were unable to answer and Furman escaped by a
narrow 2-1 margin.

Although his team suffered a disappointing loss, Hundley was not disheartened by the defeat. “We knew they were in the
top three or four in the conference,” Hundley said. “We fought back well and competed well. It was a learning
experience for us. It’s just unfortunate we played them as early (in the season) as we did.” Currently, the Wildcats
stand at 1 and 5 overall and 0 and 2 in the Southern Conference. Upcoming games include Campbell College on
Wednesday at 7:30 pm, and conference matches against Appalachian State on Friday the 25th at 4 pm and the College
of Charleston on Sunday the 27th at 12:30.

Wildcats fall short at App. State
By Seth Davis
Staff Writer

A battle began in Boone, North Carolina on September 18 at 7:00 P.M. Three hours, five games later, exhausted players
trudged off the varsity gym at Appalachian State. The volleyball match between the Mountaineers of Appalachian State and the Davidson
College Wildcats had ended with a final tally of 3-2 in favor of the Mountaineers. It was a comeback victory
for the Mountaineers, who lost both of their matches with the Wildcats last year. The Wildcats were also fighting to
win.

Men’s Soccer
Sep 23 South Carolina 5:30
Sep 27 Richmond 3:00

Women’s Soccer
Sep 23 Campbell 7:30
Sep 25 App St. 4:00
Sep 27 College of Charleston 12:30

Volleyball
Sep 26 W. Carolina 3:00
Sep 27 Chattanooga 1:00

Field Hockey
Sep 23 @ Radford 4:30
Sep 26 Davis & Elkins 1:00
Sep 28 @ App. St. 7:30

Football
Sep 26 Emory and Henry 1:30

This game was their first away game in conference play this season. As a result, the match was a twisting,
turning struggle between two of the better teams in the conference. The Mountaineers won the first game with a 15-11
total. The Wildcats fought back, winning game two 15-12. The seesaw pattern was now established. The Mountaineers won the third
game 15-12. The Wildcats replied with a 15-13 win in the fourth game. The Mountaineers finished the match in the
fifth game, winning 15-12. A crowd of 156 was in attendance at the game. They saw a number of strong
individual performances by both sides, including a school record set by...

See Volleyball on page 14

Football home opener against Emory & Henry Saturday 1:30
