DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

Party el español. Hola, OLAS.
NEWS 4
Jim says his piece. Reflections on the big night.
OPINIONS 7
“Rounders.” It’s worth shelling out for.
A&L 11
You’ve seen the picture. Now read the story.
SPORTS 16

Theme halls take their first tentative steps at Davidson
By ASHLEY KING
Staff Writer

Last year, the first signs of the theme halls that would cause such controversy in the last few months of
the 1997-98 school year went largely unnoticed by the student population. Students walked right past the tiny flyers plastered on
the walls of Chambers and in the halls of dormitories across campus that advertised the possibility of bringing onto one
hall a group of students who held the same interests. Soon, however, RLO accepted two theme hall proposals: a “Christianity
and the Teachings of Jesus Christ” theme hall and an “African American Society and Culture” theme hall.

With the realization that theme halls were, in fact, to become reality, an outpouring of objections arose from a significant
portion of the student population, while others defended this new idea as a positive force in the Davidson community. Since
last year, the controversy has sufficiently died down, and the theme halls have begun their efforts to accomplish their goals.
With these new developments, Davidson students can begin to see the actual effects of theme living on campus and to
decide for themselves whether or not they feel it is beneficial to campus life.

With seven members living on the “Christianity and Teachings of Jesus Christ” hall in first Duke, the Christianity hall is
the smaller of the two theme halls now on campus. The mission statement of the Christianity hall reads, “Our mission
is to learn, through study of the Bible and related readings, the teachings of Jesus Christ and be able to
apply these teachings to our everyday lives. By living a Christ-like life, one will have a better understanding of the
role of Christians in this world and on the Davidson College campus.” Mirroring this statement and adding the idea of
campus-wide involvement, Charlie Shaw, the coordinator of the hall, said that the main goal of the hall is “to heighten
awareness of the teachings of Jesus Christ so that the whole campus can become involved. We would be going to
the college by reaching outward.”

Already, the Christian theme hall has decided upon a few programs through which it hopes to “learn the teachings of
Christ” and to “reach out” to the campus. All members of the hall attend a weekly Bible study meeting, frequent
prayer group sessions, and meetings every Sunday at 6:00 in which they plan and discuss any upcoming programs for the
next week. They have decided to focus on different themes throughout the year, their first theme being salvation. With each
new theme, cards with candy attached will be set out in Chambers to explain to the campus the ideas that
the hall wishes to express. Members of the Christian theme hall will also be involved in service and will sponsor
programs such as a dinner at the Victory Christian Center for all Davidson students.

Sallie McMurray
The men’s soccer team battled UCLA last Wednesday on Richardson Field. Davidson fell 3-0.

Shaw also responded to the criticisms offered by those opposed to the present theme halls. One criticism is that the
people involved in theme housing get popular housing options, such as rooms in Duke, regardless of their lottery number. To
this criticism, Shaw responded that it...was RLO that decided the location of the theme hall, not the members of the
program, and that this dorm had to accommodate both male and female participants. A disruption in the arbitrary lottery system
is not, however, the most significant reason as to why many students are opposed to the theme halls initiated this
year at Davidson College. Many students who have protested the idea of theme housing say that the members of the
halls are sectioning themselves off from people with different views and interests. Replying to this concern, Shaw said, “I don’t
see it as sectioning ourselves off. I see it as creating a foundation for us to reach out to the
campus. We have the potential of being a really positive force in Davidson. The members of our hall are really
motivated and want to share what they know about Jesus. We hope the campus will embrace our efforts, be willing
to attend our activities, and not let denominational lines prevent anyone from attending.”

A little bit larger than the Christian theme hall, the “African American Society and Culture” theme hall has fifteen active
members, eight of whom are African American and five of whom are Caucasian. When asked what the original purpose of
the African American themed living was when it was first conceived last year, Allen Lee, coordinator of the African American
theme hall, said that there were two motivations for creating the hall. “We hoped to establish the hall as a
bonding tool and an outlet to express African American society and culture in a comfortable setting,” said Lee. He went
on to say that the hall was also intended to be a “living discussion piece in an ongoing discussion about
race and society,” and that the programs launched by the hall would hopefully “provide a way to have positive discourse”
on the subject.

So far, Lee feels that the hall has been extremely successful in the attainment of what he calls its “social
goals.” These social goals are to create unity among the members and to provide an outlet for its members to
discuss African American issues. He does admit, however, that extending what proponents of the theme hall see as the positive
benefits of the African American theme hall to the rest of the campus will take a little more than the
past three weeks of school because such a project is “naturally more difficult.” Among the hall programs that will affect
the Davidson community, the members of the hall will work with the youth of the town of Davidson because, as
Lee puts it, “Youth in the Davidson community need to be affirmed, like many African Americans, in the value of
their culture.” Other projects include movie discussions, dinners with professors on African American issues, and the bringing in of speakers
such as James Cone and Derrick Bell. James Cone will speak this Wednesday, Sept. 16.

Being just as aware of the turmoil caused on campus by the theme housing as Shaw, Lee too had his
responses to criticism: “It’s a shame that simply because the interests of the individuals on this hall are the interests
of a minority, they are counted as unimportant by certain individuals,” Lee said. “With eight African Americans and five Caucasians
on a hall...how are we separating ourselves? I don’t understand why some think it’s not the majority’s obligation to outreach
to the minority, but rather they think it’s the minority’s obligation to stretch itself out to the entire campus.”
