THE DAVIDSONIAN

July Experience

As the end of my first year of college draws to a close, I’m reminded of my first encounter with Davidson College, which came the summer after my junior year when I attended the Davidson July Experience. Except for particulars, the three stages I’m about to describe apply not only to those three weeks of summer schooling but also describe the transitions and accompanying tribulations I’ve faced as a college freshman. No matter your academic year, I’m sure many of you can relate.

Evelyn Gerdes, director of the program, wasn't kidding when, in her welcome two summers ago, she asserted that the Davidson July Experience would present a challenge: it will require discipline, time management, and dedication. After hearing this, my heart sank. This wasn't the “vacation” I had anticipated for the last month. I had envisioned three weeks of lounging on a North Carolina beach, surrounded by handsome young men, free from parental supervision. I had allotted, I thought generously, a few hours each day to study. Now, the reality of this “Experience” consumed me: I was 1020 miles from home; I was facing a month of rigorous coursework; I didn’t know anyone; and the weather made my hair limp. What had I gotten myself into?

As I wallowed in misery, something Ms. Gerdes said caught my attention. She was describing the week-long phases most JE students experience. During the first week, the student feels homesick and overwhelmed with work, she said. The student thinks, “I will never make it.” By the second week, the student has made new friends and is adapting to the workload. The attitude has slightly changed to “I might make it.” By the third week, however, the student has conquered the balancing act between social and study and is having a great time. Now the student says, “I will make it.” The prospect of these second and third stages offered hope. For the next month, I depended on their reality.

I modeled the description of the first-week student perfectly. The first day, after receiving a syllabus for the class “Welfare and Justice State,” I felt my situation worsen. How could I possibly read 40 pages of Charles Murray in one night and take a test on Friday?!? That night, I spent nearly five minutes scrutinizing each page, interspersed with countless visits to the dictionary. In the first week, however, I learned more than Lyndon Johnson’s role in creating current welfare programs — I discovered how unprepared for college I was compared to my peers at Davidson. That lesson was harder than any Professor Brian Shaw ever assigned.

Back in south-central Iowa, I was a top student, active in all class discussions, but now I was surrounded by students whose vocabularies left me confused and whose SAT scores surpassed figures I only imagined. Although this realization was humbling, it didn’t discourage me but rather left me with a determination to succeed at Davidson (at the time I was actually thinking “survive”).

Finally, the first weekend arrived, along with hope, as I expected to pass into that second stage promised by Ms. Gerdes. Monday came, then Tuesday, but I never entered the second phase characterized by the assurance “I might make it.” I still wanted to be rescued by my parents and freed from the stress. I spent more and more time buried in my studies, trying to keep up with the rigorous schedule. So the second week slowly passed, introducing new obstacles which, one by one, I saw pass.

At last, the long-awaited third week arrived. I again waited in vain for that final stage to take over and relieve me. I was still stuck in the first stage. Now I studied even harder, stayed up even later, and cried even more. Aside from returning home, all my attention was focused on Friday — the day of finals. I prepared notes and study cards, reread chapters in my spare time, and spent several library periods discussing material with Professor Shaw. Too soon, Friday came. As I nervously walked from Vail Commons to Chambers, the Welfare final only minutes away, I told myself that the next hour and a half would determine my success or failure as a Davidson July Experience student.

Later that evening, after both classes had forever dismissed, I went jogging on a nearby trail that had become familiar. As I ran, I felt myself shedding the “I can’t make it” shell for a triumphant “I did it.” As I reflected on the past three weeks, I decided that this “experience” wasn’t so bad after all. The work had been arduous, but now I was left with an awesome sense of accomplishment. There was something incredibly rewarding in not just surviving Davidson’s challenges but in conquering them. I realized, contrary to only a few hours earlier, that my success at Davidson did not depend on any grade. Rather, the friendships I secured, the obstacles I overcame, and the knowledge I gained were the true reflectors of my accomplishment. Evelyn Gerdes was right. I had made it!

Benefits of a theme hall

Taking advantage of RLO blunder article on next year’s segregated halls. There has been a good deal of debate from both sides on this issue, and I have been able to witness the lottery and speak with members of next year’s “theme halls.” This has given me time to reflect on my arguments and views, and I have decided that I made a mistake. So to all those people who may have been hurt by what I said, I would like to apologize.

If you will be anguishing in the cramped quarters of Little next year while sophomores lounge in the spacious surroundings of Duke for the first time ever, I would like to apologize to you. If you really wanted to live with a bunch of your fraternity or eating house buddies but were not allowed to because of RLO limits on the percentage of people from any given Patterson Court house on each hall, I would like to apologize to you. If you ended up being split up from your friends because your lottery numbers were low, I would like to apologize to you.

If you join a segregated hall, not only do you get to choose from the best rooms on campus, but you are guaranteed that you will be able to live with whomever you like. Because of the nature of the halls, there is nothing to prevent a hall composed entirely of members from a fraternity or eating house. After all, it would hardly make sense to enforce the same rules that ensure “diverse living conditions” on a hall created for the sole purpose of bringing people together who think, believe, or look the same.

But the most important aspect of the segregated halls is that they allow students to avoid the lottery and choose where and with whom they live. So rather than fighting these halls and allowing only those students who want to segregate themselves from the rest of Davidson to enjoy these perks, it definitely makes more sense to join up yourselves. The policy obviously isn’t going to be changed by student opinion. After all, these halls were created despite the fact that student polls taken in the last few years asking about segregated halls returned overwhelmingly negative responses. So if segregated halls...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are going to exist in the future, it makes sense to get something out of them. Furthermore, if everyone joins a segregated hall, the problem that these halls were too far apart, I would like to apologize to you. If you really wanted to live next door to and share a bathroom with members of the opposite sex but were not allowed to do so on regular halls because of RLO policy, I would like to apologize to you. Basically, if you didn’t get the room you wanted and didn’t get to live with the people you wanted to live with, I feel somewhat responsible and would like to apologize.

You see, you could have avoided any of the negative situations I just described had you signed up for a segregated hall. And because I encouraged people not to do this, I feel partially responsible for your plight. So I admit I was wrong and would like to revise my opinion. Instead of fighting these segregated halls and pointing out how they will divide Davidson and only add to our current problems, everyone should join them. If, as RLO claims, the “African American Studies” hall and “Teachings of Christ” hall truly are not race- or creed-based, anyone can be on them. Simply pick the hall that is located where you want to live and sign up with your friends. There is nothing RLO can do to stop you. Of course, the hypocrisy of these halls might become apparent when the entire “African American Studies Hall” is made up of white physics majors. But rather than taking Ms. Jordan’s advice (if you don’t agree with theme halls, don’t be involved in them), I now believe that if you don’t agree with theme halls, you should join them. Unfortunately, you will have to wait a year to take advantage of the system. And we must hope that the damage done by the truly segregated halls next year will not be too great. There were a couple of people who took advantage of the system this year, and I'd like to take my hat off to them. Smart move, guys. But to the rest of you, I am really sorry I gave bad advice when this whole thing began. I’m hoping that this article will make up for my mistake.

In defense, I would like to apologize in advance to any I offend in this short response to an opinion I recently read. I apologize first because I realize that whenever a guy, like myself, slings a little testosterone around, someone on this great sphere of estrogen we call Earth is not going to like it. The opinion that I have a problem with is that of Kristen Taylor. In your response to an article written by David Rosenberg, Ms. Taylor, you failed to see the point of Dave’s article. The focal topic that I see in Dave’s somewhat exaggerated article is not that women should be barefoot and pregnant, slaving over a hot stove, but rather that men and women take different approaches to athletic events. I am sorry if this idea went over your head. What Dave actually states, if you take time to read the facts, is — “Now, I am not degrading a female’s competitive nature. I recognize any athlete’s prowess in their sporting field and understand that many girls at this school have a higher internal competitive drive than guys.” Now, you can call me crazy, but I’m thinking that this does not suggest that the female population spends their free hours at Harris Teeter honing their shopping abilities (and according to IMAC rules, if a man is present during this shopping spree, the woman, in the name of fairness, should have to make purchases with her right hand tied behind her back). What Dave is actually stating in his article is that if you want to have equality in a coed sport, each player should be allowed to use the talent they have. This means that if someone is right-handed, they should be able to bat that way, even if it means a little extra running for you.

As for Dave’s part of not sticking through with a commitment, I offer no resistance. However, I will contend that the “conformity” you so eloquently describe as eating away at his heart seems better exemplified in the actions of trying to lower his performance level than in his act of “cowardice.” Players should not be forced to demean themselves or their athletic ability because they were fortunate enough to receive a Y-chromosome. If you cannot see the truth in this, then I am sorry for your shortcomings and closed-minded attitude.

The next problem I have is with your statement: “Although this may be difficult for a football player like you to comprehend...” EXCUSE ME?! I don’t know how well you know Dave, or the rest of the football team, but as a proud member of that organization, I take offense to that remark. If you want to pick a group of guys who are slack, or who lack mental ability, you sure as hell picked the wrong group of men. Since you don’t seem to know many of the football players, allow me to introduce you to a few of them. First, there is John Cowan, a senior on last year’s team — I’m sure you read the Davidsonian article on his award-winning physics computer program. Aside from playing in all 40 games of his college football career, John found time to be PCC president and to graduate near the top of the class of ‘96. John is currently studying medicine at Johns Hopkins. Next, we have Eric Sapp, not only one of the most “stand-up” guys I know but also the president of F.C.A. Ryan Gist, due to graduate this year, not only played football for four years but also found time to be one of the highest-ranking ROTC members on campus. Also on the Davidson football roster, you will find a number of Bonner Scholars and many others who have achieved high academic honors. And from personal experience, I can tell you that it takes a lot of ability to participate in such a demanding program and quite possibly still work harder than anyone else to make the grades here. So I can reliably inform you that your comment, while amusing, lacks any semblance of truth.

In closing, I just wish to give readers yet another “fact” from this so-called “fictitious” article of Dave’s that you, Ms. Taylor, misinterpreted. The quote used by Dave in his article is not from Arnold Schwarzenegger but from one of his students in the movie. I usually appreciate it when people get the facts of their article correct, but it seems you forgot to do that, which leads me to believe (and forces me to use a quote from another “manly man,” Jack Nicholson) that “You can’t handle the truth!”