Oscar Arias Sanchez, winner of the 1987 Nobel Peace Prize and President of Costa Rica from 1986-1990, will speak at
Davidson College and receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on Wednesday, Apr. 1. Arias will address the subject “Demilitarization
and Poverty Reduction: Two Priorities for the 21st Century,” beginning at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium of Chambers Building. At
the same time, the College will award him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree for championing such issues as human
development, democracy, and demilitarization, applying the lessons learned in the Central American peace process to topics of current global debate.
His talk will be presented at the College’s annual Wearn and Cornelson lectures and is free and open to the
public. A reception will follow the event.

Arias was born in Heredia, Costa Rica, in 1940. He studied law and economics at the University of Costa Rica,
and in 1974 received a doctoral degree in political science at the University of Essex, England. After serving as a
professor of political science at the University of Costa Rica, Arias was appointed Costa Rican Minister of Planning and Economic
Policy. He won a seat in Congress in 1978, was elected Secretary General of the National Liberation Party in 1981,
and was elected president of the country in 1986. Arias assumed office at a time of great regional discord, and
in 1987 he drafted a peace plan to end the crisis. Widely recognized as the Arias Peace Plan, his initiative
culminated in the signing of the Esquipulas II Accords, or the “Procedure to Establish a Firm and Lasting Peace in
Central America,” by all the Central American presidents on Aug. 7, 1987. In that same year, he was awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize. He used the Nobel monetary award to establish in 1988 the Arias Foundation for Peace and Human
Progress. It includes three programs — The Center for Human Progress, The Center for Organized Participation, and The Center for
Peace and Reconciliation. Arias has continued his pursuit of global peace and human security from the headquarters of these organizations.

He is currently focused on curtailing the global arms trade. On May 29, he met with seven other Nobel Peace
laureates and representatives of several peace groups to unveil an International Code of Conduct on Arms Transfers. His proposal stipulates
that any country wishing to purchase arms must meet certain criteria, including the promotion of democracy, the protection of human
rights, and transparency in military spending. The Code would also prohibit arms sales to nations that support terrorism and to
states that are engaged in aggression against other nations or peoples. Current initiatives to restrict arms sales in the United
States and the European Union represent a first step toward Arias’ mission for peace. In addition to the Code, Arias
encourages preventive diplomacy to avert regional arms races and conflict. He strongly advocates the Year 2000 Campaign to Redirect World
Military Spending to Human Development, which calls upon the United Nations to send special envoys to sites of potential international
conflict. Furthermore, he recently proposed to all heads of state in the Western hemisphere that they endorse a two-year moratorium
on the purchase of high-tech weapons. This measure would extend the reach of an existing treaty that made Latin America
the world’s first nuclear-free zone.

While visiting Davidson, Arias will also meet with Spanish-speaking students and faculty to talk about issues concerning Central and Latin
America, attend an “Economies of Latin America” class and meet with the Advisory Committee of the Dean Rusk Program in
International Studies. For more information on his visit to Davidson, please contact Professor Clark Ross of the Economics department at
896-2262.

---

Crosby leads sexual esteem workshop for women
By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, Mar. 11, a sexual esteem workshop was held for Davidson women at 7:30 p.m. in the Carolina Inn.
Counseling Center Psychologist DeWitt Crosby led the workshop, which was started by Davidson graduate Sara Carlson. Seven students attended the
talk and learned ways to improve self-esteem. This workshop was part of Women’s Month at Davidson. The women learned to
be more open about sexual issues and talked about a broad range of topics concerning women. The women who attended
the workshop presented ideas defining sexual esteem. They defined a broad range of sexual activity ranging from holding hands to
intercourse. To these women, sexual esteem consisted of awareness, knowledge, comfort, confidence, questioning, freedom to express themselves, control, and not
being embarrassed about sexual matters.

Crosby presented the necessary components of sexual esteem as comfort with your body, knowing yourself, and communication. The Counseling Center
used to have hall programs to improve the body image of women at Davidson. The women at the workshop expressed
concern that there is too much emphasis on fat content and exercising for Davidson women. They feel they are constantly
hearing about food and it makes them feel self-conscious. Crosby suggested that when women hear others begin to obsess about
food to change the subject to a more enjoyable topic. Crosby also stressed the importance of a positive body image
for women. A good way to improve your body image, Crosby said, is to evaluate your body part by part,
making an objective description of it. You will then be able to accept your body as it is, and your
body image will eventually become positive.

The second component for women to have good sexual esteem is to get to know yourself. This consists of knowing
what you want in a relationship. Many women tend to ignore their own pleasure and concentrate more on pleasing their
partners. Crosby encouraged the women to ignore negative opinions about women knowing what they want and be more assertive. One
woman who attended the workshop said a common view is that “women are not supposed to be as sexually aggressive
as men.” Women tend to worry about what their partner will think if they already know what pleases them. The
last component for women to have good sexual esteem is to get to know yourself.Sexual esteem is to be able
to communicate better. This involves telling your partner what you like and do not like about the relationship. Crosby said
that “the biggest problem with women is when they are doing something they are not comfortable with, they do not
speak up because they do not want to hurt a guy’s feelings.” She suggested that many women feel men have
fragile egos, and women tend to care a great deal about protecting them. At the end of the workshop, Crosby
answered the questions of the women attending the workshop. Several of the questions dealt with mistrust of guys and negative
sexual experiences. The workshop setting allowed these women to learn to have better body images as well as better attitudes
when it comes to sexual matters. One woman at the workshop expressed concern because, due to so much academic stress
at Davidson, she feels women’s desires are repressed. Crosby suggested if this becomes a problem, women should learn to value
things that are important to them and make time for them. Women’s Month at Davidson will continue through Mar. 31.
Those who are unable to attend these workshops may seek advice and answers to personal questions at the Counseling Center
and through other campus support groups.

Service scholarship encourages creativity
By CARRIE ARTHUR
Staff Writer

The Class of 1989 Summer Service Scholarship annually offers one student the opportunity to design his or her own summer
service internship. This experience can be national or international, and the student will receive a $3,000 stipend for ten or
more weeks of service. Community Service Coordinator Bill Abrams said that the recipient of the scholarship must combine his or
her “various interests and passions into one meaningful experience.” For example, last year’s recipient, senior Meredith Benke, combined her interests
in art, Spanish, and service to teach art at a Spanish-speaking school in Houston, Texas. As Abrams said, “This scholarship
is designed to empower students to spend their summer pursuing their passions while working in human service.” Meredith Benke, a
former recipient of the scholarship, enjoyed the program because “it provides a chance for students to be creative with what
they want to do,” whereas other programs are more restrictive. Requirements for the project go beyond designing the internship. Abrams
said that the recipient must also maintain “a summer experience journal; develop and maintain a budget; communicate regularly with him;
develop an outside enrichment schedule including a summer reading list, additional experiences, and investigation of issues involved with service work;
and share (the) experience with (the) campus upon (his or her) return.” The application process includes the development of a
summer internship proposal. Abrams said that this proposal includes “reasons for applying” which must be personal and specific, a “well-developed
summer service internship/project, a tentative budget, a description of (the) enrichment schedule, a resume, and a list of skills related
to the summer internship.” Abrams encourages anyone interested in service to apply. He said that the strongest candidates will be
creative. If you are having trouble designing a project, Abrams will help. Applications are due by Apr. 1. Interviews will
be during the first two weeks of April, and a decision should be made by Apr. 15.

Eco-Fact: An area of tropical rainforest the size of New York’s Central Park is destroyed every 16 minutes. (Source: Scott
Lewis, “The Rainforest Book”)

REMEMBER, ONLY SIX WEEKS UNTIL EARTH DAY!

Phonathon from page 1

Dollar amounts raised and the number of alumni who agree to pledge, with prizes awarded to the winning group. The
inter-house competition is only one of the events that occurs during the Phonathon. The Annual Fund Office provides pizza and
candy for all participants, and throughout the night contests are held, awarding prizes for “events” such as who can raise
$100 first. Though raising money for the Annual Fund is the most obvious goal of the Phonathon, there are many
other things the Phonathon hopes to accomplish. One goal is to not only increase the dollar amount received from alumni,
but also to increase the rate of alumni participation. Many alumni have lost touch with Davidson for years, and getting
them involved once again is key to good College-alumni relations. “It’s a really good chance for alumni to talk to
students and feel connected to what’s going on at the school right now,” said Jeremy Reinoehl, Assistant Director of the
Annual Fund. Not all of the Phonathon’s goals are purely alumni-related, though. The Annual Fund office believes that the Phonathon
benefits students, as well. “All students will eventually be alumni,” said Reinoehl, “and talking to other alumni helps them get
connected to the alumni base.” Through conversations with alumni, students can learn useful information about majors and careers. In addition,
each “Call Sheet” (the form a student uses to find the alumni’s telephone number and name) includes the alumni’s major
and current place of business. Using this information, students can get a glimpse of where their majors might take them
in the future. The last of the major goals of the Phonathon is to educate students about the Annual Fund.
Most students have no idea that everyday things such as electric bills, library books, and athletic uniforms are paid for
by the Annual Fund. Specifically, the 4.2 million dollars that will be raised this year will provide ten percent of
Davidson’s operating budget. Every year, the Board of Trustees sets a figure for expenses that Davidson cannot pay for out
of the endowment or tuition. Alumni and parents are asked to fill this void with contributions to the Annual Fund.
A majority of these funds are raised through student phone solicitations. According to the Annual Fund Office, students have been
making these types of calls for as long as there have been telephones. The Phonathon gives students a chance to
get involved in this tradition and to have fun with their respective social institutions while doing so. “The Phonathon will
be another chance for students to get involved in campus life and to gain a greater appreciation for things that
go on at Davidson,” said freshman class president and Phonathon committee member Jehan Shamshid-Deen. “It is gonna be a ton
of fun!”
