By Setu Davis
Staff Writer

The women’s volleyball season ended in Boone, North Carolina, the site of the 1998 Southern Conference Championships, on November 23.
Though the team fell short of an NCAA Tournament berth, the 1998 season was both a successful and promising one
for the young Wildcat team.

The Wildcats fell to the Eagles from Georgia Southern, a team that had improved a great deal over the course
of the regular season, where the Wildcats defeated them twice. The third-seeded Wildcats had their eye on a conference championship.
This hope was not a far-fetched one because the Wildcats, during their midseason peak, had occupied the top spot in
the Southern Conference.

Led by second-team All-Conference star Kelly Keegan, Georgia Southern opened the match with a 15-8 win in the first game.
The Wildcats responded by winning the second game 15-9. Knotted at 1-1, the Eagles won the third game 15-9, and
stayed strong through the fourth game, winning 15-8. The improved Georgia Southern team capitalized upon an off-day for Davidson.

There were a number of individual highlights, including the impressive play of Mara Mordini, who finished the season with her
typical intensity and success. Mordini led the team with 16 kills while having a 26% kill percentage. She also led
the team on the defensive end, compiling 22 digs in the match. Seven Wildcats played in the match, but the
team missed the contributions of Brooke Bentley, who sat out with a dislocated shoulder. Jacqueline Ortega had 6 kills and
2 digs in the match. Jennifer Ortega had 10 kills and 15 digs. Senior captain Janet Duncan had an impressive
performance in her final match as a Wildcat, racking up 5 kills, 3 service aces, and 10 digs. Ginny Quis
led the team with 42 assists to go along with her 15 digs and 5 kills. Gina Lawrence had 10
kills, 2 service aces, and 6 digs in the game. Lauren Schultz had a solid match, finishing with 13 digs,
1 service ace, and 2 kills.

The Wildcats racked up individual honors at the season-ending Southern Conference Volleyball Awards Banquet in Boone. Wildcat Head Coach Lisa
Marston was named the Southern Conference Coach-of-the-Year. She is the first Davidson volleyball coach to ever receive that honor. This
recognition of Coach Marston comes, no doubt, as a result of her constant poise and demeanor on the sidelines, and
her dedication to her young team. She guided this young volleyball squad to an impressive season that saw the ‘Cats
flirt with conference championship honors.

Two of Coach Marston’s players were also recognized at the banquet. Mara Mordini was named as a first-team All-Conference player.
Throughout the season, Mara’s explosive athleticism and never-ending hustle combined to make her one of the best in the Southern
Conference. Mara nearly tied the Wildcat single-season record with 458 digs. She was also the first Wildcat to be named
Southern Conference player of the week—an honor she held twice this season. She is an exciting player to watch, and
will help the Wildcats next season. Joining her on the All-Conference team was fellow sophomore and second-team All-Conference player Gina
Lawrence. Gina’s all-around solid play and defensive strength were an invaluable asset to the Wildcats’ success.

Senior Janet Duncan set a new school record for career blocks, finishing her four years with 557. Leading the Southern
Conference in blocks for the third consecutive year, Duncan also broke her own single-season record with 169. As for the
team, this season marked the first time since 1991 that a Wildcat squad has accumulated 20 victories. The Wildcats finished
the regular season at 21-11, with a 13-5 record in the Southern Conference. With all-conference selectees Mara Mordini and Gina
Lawrence returning along with nine other underclassmen, the future looks bright for Davidson volleyball.

Men’s Basketball Roundup
By Bro Krift, Stephen Cefalu, and Tripp Cherry

WILDCATS RECORD: 2-4

Davidson Wildcats vs. Duke Blue Devils
Charlotte Coliseum (Charlotte, NC)
November 17th, 1998 8:00 PM
Duke 94 Davidson 61

In front of 10,136 at the Charlotte Coliseum, Trajan Langdon scored 19 of his 27 points in the first half
to lead top-ranked Duke in a 94-61 victory over Davidson. Ben Ebong and Ali Ton’s early foul trouble hurt Davidson’s
depth as the quick Duke squad used an overpowering defense to force Davidson into an uncharacteristic 25 turnovers. The Wildcats
closed the gap to 30-24 with 3:58 remaining in the first half, but Duke turned up the pressure closing on
a 16-3 run highlighted by William Avery’s ball pressure in the open court. Chadd Holmes and Davor Halbauer led Davidson
with 14 points each.

Davidson Wildcats vs. Elon Fightin’ Christians
Belk Arena (Davidson, NC)
November 30th, 1998 7:30 PM
Davidson 89 Elon 51

Chalk one up in the win column. In the season’s first competition in Belk Arena, Davidson controlled the Fighting Christians
of Elon. Elon, in their first year as a Division I competitor, looked overmatched and undersized. Over 1400 fans watched
Landry Kosmalski and Ben Ebong perform at peak level. Both forwards compiled double-doubles. Kosmalski pitched in 25 points and 11
rebounds highlighted by several dunks. Ben Ebong cameOff the bench to add 18 points and 10 rebounds, Ali Ton took
another giant step towards the career assist record, dishing out 10 assists over 25 minutes. Davor Halbauer, filling the void
left by Mark Donnelly, attempted over ten shots for the first time this season. Look for Halbauer in upcoming games
to continue his new trend in response to Davidson’s lack of offensive balance.

Chadd Holmes puts up a shot. Sports Info Dep. Davidson Wildcats vs. Navy Midshipmen Annapolis, Maryland November 23rd, 1998 7:30
PM Navy 67 Davidson 60

Davidson’s first road test led them to Annapolis, Md. in a matchup with last year’s Patriot League champions, the Navy
Midshipmen. With under two minutes remaining in the game, the Wildcats held a narrow 60-57 lead and appeared to have
the game sealed, but the Midshipmen dominated down the stretch, scoring the last 10 points. The ‘Cats pride themselves on
controlling the boards, but Davidson’s interior defense continually got beat to the ball. Navy gathered 22 offensive rebounds to Davidson’s
5. Ben Ebong led the Wildcats with 20 points on 7-18 shooting.

Davidson Wildcats vs. Colgate Red Raiders Ameritas Classic (Lincoln, Nebraska) December 4th, 1998 8:30 (CT) Colgate 67 Davidson 64

“There’s no way to sugar coat this one,” is how legendary Davidson Wildcat radio broadcaster Frank Santore described Davidson’s 67-64
loss to Colgate in the first round of the Ameritas Classic. “A tough pill to swallow” is how ‘Cats head
coach Bob McKillop put it. The ‘Cats turned the ball over 17 times and shot only 37% from the field
in the game. Despite its lackluster performance, Davidson was still very much alive in the game down the stretch. The
‘Cats were, in fact, leading 64-62 with under a minute to go, when Ben Ebong pulled up from behind the
three-point arc and barely missed what would have been a game-sealing three-pointer. “He had a good look,” said Bob McKillop
of Ebong’s shot. “It’s a shot we wanted. It just rolled around and spun out.” The Red Raiders got the
rebound and with time running out threw up a desperation 35-foot jumper. Frank Santore’s voice went silent for a moment,
then in hushed disbelief he said, “Oh, my God, he hit it.” “Give them credit. They hit a couple of
miracle shots down the stretch,” said McKillop. “The truth is we shouldn’t ever have put ourselves in a position where
we needed Davor’s heroic three-point shooting to bail us out.” Halbauer connected on 4 three-pointers in the game and finished
with 16 points. Ben Ebong had 12 points and 7 rebounds. Landry Kosmalski had 10 rebounds. “We had a good
shoot-around session before the game, but then came out as if we were looking past Colgate to the Nebraska game,”
said McKillop. “We’re not a team that can look past anyone right now.”

Davidson Wildcats vs. Wake Forest Demon Deacons Lawrence Joel Coliseum (Winston Salem, NC) November 27th, 1998 7:30 PM Wake Forest
59 Davidson 58

Unphased by a tenacious Demon Deacon defense, the ‘Cats jumped out to a 35-27 halftime lead in this contest. In
the first eight minutes of the second half, however, the Demon Deacons went on a 19-4 run to take a
46-39 lead. The ‘Cats eventually clawed their way back into the game, and thanks to clutch free throw shooting from
Ali Ton and Ben Ebong were able to swap lead changes with Wake down the stretch. With just five seconds
on the clock, Ali Ton used a powerful hesitation dribble to beat his man, drive the lane, and give the
‘Cats a 58-57 lead with a lay-up. On the very next possession, though, a controversial foul call put Wake’s Robert
O’Kelley on the line, where he connected twice to give Wake the 59-58 victory. O’Kelley led Wake with 24 points,
while Landry Kosmalski paced the ‘Cats with 14 points and 7 rebounds. Ebong had 10 points and seven rebounds. Ton
finished with 11 points and four assists.

Davidson Wildcats vs. SW Texas State Bobcats Ameritas Classic (Lincoln, Nebraska) December 5th, 1998 6:00 (CT) Davidson 68 SW Texas
St. 64

“A character victory” is how Bob McKillop characterized this game, as the ‘Cats outlasted the SW Texas State Bobcats 68-64
in the consolation round of the Ameritas Classic. It was victory number 140 for Bob McKillop, and 1019 for the
Davidson basketball program. Davor Halbauer had 13 points including 3 three-pointers. Landry Kosmalski totaled 11 points and 9 rebounds. Ben
Ebong poured in 10 points. Emeka Erege grabbed an impressive 9 boards in just 21 minutes. Filling in for an
illness-plagued Stephen Marshall in the post for most of the game, Chadd Holmes had 10 points and 5 rebounds. “Chadd
really stepped it up for us tonight,” said McKillop of Holmes’s superlative performance. The ‘Cats made amends for a 3-point
halftime deficit by playing tremendous second-half defense. “Our bench was just sensational,” said McKillop. “We’re starting to achieve balance. Just
like life, basketball is all about balance.”

Kosmalski soars to the rim.
