THE DAVIDSONIAN Op-Ed

‘Where are our bottles?

Is it just me, or does the Union seem different lately? It used to be that, as I left the
Davidsonian office at 8:30 on Tuesday morning, the Union was just beginning to fill up for the day, bleary-eyed crowds
stumbling towards the Cafe for a shot or two of caffeine before the first class of the day. Gradually, the
Union would continue to fill up over the course of the day, and by mid-afternoon, I couldn’t enter Gray’s sacred
halls without having to stop to talk to at least half a dozen people. And I liked it that way.

Now, I walk into the Union at what used to be its most bustling time (between 10 and midnight, I
think), and it looks almost exactly as it does after closing — except that there are more lights on. This
makes me sad, because the Union is a great central location for everyone to see everyone else. It’s a convenient
place to take a study break and escape the avocado-colored carpet for a while, and it allows for relaxation without
the drinking (if you’re 21, of course) and loud music the Court often offers. (Not that there’s not a time
for that — on the contrary, there are many times for that. But sometimes I need the mellow tunes of
89.9, you know?)

But why? What has rendered our once-popular Union desolate and depressing? Well, I hate to blame just one entity, but
in this case, I think I’m justified. I think I’m justified in doing this because, when I do walk about
the Union, what I do hear (and I can hear very well, since the place is SO quiet now) is
usually something to the effect of, “Where did all the food go?”

Indeed, the Cafe plays a large role in drawing students to the Union. (Hey, refreshments will draw a crowd to
almost anything.) I knew this, and yet, I guess I never realized the extent to which the Union must rely
on the Cafe for its livelihood. But now that the Cafe has rid itself of all the bottled soft drinks
and other key items, students have less incentive to go there — and, therefore, also have less incentive to go
to the Union at all. Yes, people do still go; there was actually quite a crowd at the Chiapas program
last night. But they don’t seem to hang out as much anymore. Visits are more purposeful, more in-and-out. This is
not a happy thing.

I, myself, am not one to criticize, however, for I have been to the Cafe only twice this year (as
compared to my usual twice daily). Neither time have I felt the need to buy anything. And do you know
why? Because they didn’t have anything I wanted to buy. Gone were my favorite 20-ounce bottles of Diet Coke, which
are far easier (and less messy) to toss in a bookbag and carry around Chambers all day than the cups
they give you for the fountain soda. Gone were my staple snacks. In fact, it appeared as if almost everything
was gone. After I got over the initial sobbing, I went on to Harris Teeter — it may be a
little farther, but at least they carry what I want to spend money on. I have since been substituting my
Cafe visits for H.T. runs, but it’s just not the same. I miss going to the Union, starting out with
the semi-legitimate purpose of foraging for Diet Coke and spending another hour talking to people I run into. I miss
the atmosphere, but I know that it’s just not the same anymore.

Now, I realize that it is helpful for the Cafe to be a profitable business, but shouldn’t it be, first
and foremost, for the students? Especially when the life of the Union is at stake, shouldn’t we be more concerned
about preserving students’ social outlets than raising capital? One would think so.

maak k. Cpe

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

Business Manager
SCOTT REEDER

News Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Op-Ed Editor
ERIN McKINLEY

Circulation Manager
EUGENIA LEATH

Sports Editors
ALLISON KALETT
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

Arts & Living Editors
MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Advertising Managers
PETER CLARK
DAVID JOHNSTON

News Layout Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY
EVAN McCORMICK

Op-Ed Layout Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY
EVAN McCORMICK

Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
CINDY CLARK
WILL PARKER
JOHN DUNWOODY
WILL PARKER

Sports Layout Editors
STEPHANIE ERICKSON
MOLLY MARKARIAN

Arts & Living Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON
CATHERINE CORNWELL
CADER HOWARD

Photo Editor
KAREN SWEENEY
SALLIE McMURRAY
AILEEN WATERS

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon. Or e-mail
any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either WordPerfect or Rich
Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words. The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise
adjust submissions for space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

A look at each side: Clinton and Tea

Topic 1: Well,a Democrat has finally done it. I thought it was humanly impossible to lower the expectations that the
American public has for their elected representatives. However, I guess I was wrong. I thought debauchery and lewd conduct had
been remanded to the confines of the Massachusetts state line and the Kennedy compound, and that such perverseness was barred
from the White House. Again, I guess I was wrong. I thought that lying and perjury were wrong. Ah, well,
according to Bill Clinton, once again, I am the one in the wrong. How dare anyone, let alone Mr. Clinton
himself, tell me that it’s alright to have extramarital sex, but more importantly that it is perfectly acceptable to perjure
oneself in our court system. And before anyone even thinks about that tired and trite excuse that “What Clinton does
in his private life is none of America’s business,” let me just say that the minute our esteemed president admitted
on television that he willingly misled the grand jury in the Paula Jones deposition, then Clinton’s private life became very
much America’s business. A President who is willing to break the law by lying in a court is every bit
my concern. Mr. Clinton may try to veil his sins behind the wool of legalese and technicalities, but I will
not buy his crap and neither should any American. While I have no doubt that President Clinton will slip out
of the hands of punishment like the greased pig he is, I firmly believe that ranking House Republicans and morally
upright Democrats should push for the one solution: impeachment.

Topic 2: And now to the great sweet iced tea versus unsweetened iced tea debate. Let me open by saying
that unsweetened tea is revolting. The North has once again taken a lovely beverage and turned it horribly wrong like
their corruption of coffee into espresso. Not only is it enough that such a drink as unsweetened iced tea exists,
but now it is becoming harder and harder to find the original and superior sweet tea in eating establishments. Oh,
sure people say “Put one of those sugar packets in your tea,” however, this only shows how ignorant these people
are. Sweet iced tea can only properly be sweetened in the brewing process when the tea is still hot and
steeping. If another waiter tells me when I ask for sweet tea that “There’s sugar on the table” I swear
I'll beat him senseless. It isn’t the same. Well, anyway that’s the way I see it.

Topic 1: Okay, so he did it. Mr. Clinton, the mack that he is, landed one of his interns. Fine.
He admitted it, on national television no less, apologized for it, and then promptly left for a few days alone
with his family to work things out. He was wrong in engaging in extramarital relations, but just like Eddie Murphy
says while playing Grandma in The Nutty Professor, “It starts as colleagues, and the next thing you know...” She continues,
“Ain’t nothin’ wrong with havin’ relations. Relations is beautiful.” My point is that Mr. Clinton’s affair, while wrong, terrible, and
embarrassing for the entire nation, is his personal business. The business of the American people goes as far as the
management of our great nation. One might ask where the President’s job ends. Is there no personal life involved with
serving your country in its highest office? If the people of this nation need to examine some aspect of Bill
Clinton they should look at his outstanding record as President. The people should look at the great strides this nation
has made economically, socially, and internationally. The economic growth of the nation during Mr. Clinton’s term has been unrivaled. Mr.
Clinton has appointed more minorities and women to high positions than any other president. And the world is becoming a
safer place for us all due to the rigorous pursuit of terrorism, the strong statements of human rights, and the
growing international relations Mr. Clinton has helped to develop. So the bottom line is this: Let Bill Clinton fight his
personal battles himself, and concern yourself with the affairs of the nation, and Bill Clinton as the leader of that
nation.

Topic 2: Okay, give me a break, sweet tea? I swear, are the proponents of sweet tea too lazy to
just drop a pack of sugar in their tea when it’s brought to them? But beyond that, why drink tea
with sugar in it? The opposing view on this matter complains about the transition from coffee to espresso. Well, what
have they done to tea? While discussing this issue with my sister-in-law, she pointed out that “When I order tea,
I want something refreshing, not some presweetened sugar drink.” Right on, sister. In a similar conversation with my brother, another
point was brought to my attention. He said, “What’s wrong with these people? Are they too stupid or incompetent to
put sugar in their own drink?” So what it breaks down to is that the real drink is unsweetened tea.
If you need sugar so badly, stop being lazy and put it in yourself, or order a coke instead. And
that, folks, is the real truth.
