THE DAVIDSONIAN - Rise in bookstore prices displeases students

By ASHLEY KING
Staff Writer

Every student at Davidson College is here to learn. There are countless bits of information that students must juggle, categorize, and ponder, and—try as they might—not all students here can remember all that they should. Many times, information is forgotten or lost somewhere in the jumble of psychology definitions, political theories, and chemistry formulas. There does, however, seem to be one piece of information that no Davidson student can erase from their minds: what they paid for their books.

When asked how much he paid for his books this semester, freshman Trey Davis responded without hesitation, “$452.46.” Although most other students were not quite as precise in their answers, they were all able to respond to inquiries about their book costs for this past semester with at least a ballpark number. With the prices of books being such a weighty concern for all the students here at Davidson, some were surprised to find that the prices in the bookstore this semester had increased by a significant amount. While many books increased by three or four dollars, some increased by up to six or seven.

The reasons for the already demanding prices are far more practical than some students would think. “The cost of course materials is probably the number-one college student complaint,” said Gwen Gardner, manager of the Davidson College Bookstore. Out of 20 randomly polled students in an informal survey, an overwhelming majority said that they felt that their books were overpriced. While most students did not notice the price increase of last semester, they were all aware of their costs which ranged from $200 to $550. Gardner was equally frustrated with the increase in price at the bookstore. Throughout the interview, she reiterated her feeling that students at Davidson already have enough stresses without having to deal with the “shock” of paying for textbooks.

Unfortunately, students do have to pay for their textbooks, and even more unfortunately, so does the Davidson College Bookstore. In most instances, the exorbitant prices seen on textbooks and all mark-ups of the past semester are due to the policies of the publishers who sell the books to the bookstore. The reason that the tab for the average student at Davidson was larger for Spring term this year was simply because the publishers have decided to elevate the prices of books once again. When reached for comment, the publishers did not give any concrete reason as to why their prices had suddenly increased.

Besides paying for the books themselves, the money that students spend on books and other items in the bookstore goes towards its employees and the operating costs of the store itself. These costs, however, were not the cause of the recent increase in student book expenditures, and they seem too essential to be cut in order to help the students. In fact, the margin that the bookstore uses is about the same when compared with the margins used by other bookstores across the country. As Gardner pointed out, “The main reason the bookstore is in business is to provide course materials for students.” In other words, the employees of the bookstore do not profit from overcharging students, despite some student feelings to the contrary.

So, is there anything that can be done to help the students who must part with hundreds of dollars to have the essentials for their next four classes? Gardner’s answers to...These questions are keeping in contact with the students and the promotion of used books. If the bookstore receives orders from professors in time for finals, then the college bookstore can buy books back from the students, selling those books to another student at a reduced price. Gardner hopes that the promotion of this program will help to lighten the load that the cost of books has thrown upon students. She also hopes that if students have any suggestions or complaints about the bookstore they will come in and talk with her about them.

Monroe receives car and standing ovation at Belk
By Michael J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s basketball team could have used a little of Bill Monroe’s magic Thursday night — not to mention his shooting touch. Monroe, a sophomore from Charlotte, hit four straight shots — layup, free throw, three-pointer, and half-court heave — to win a Ford Explorer at halftime of the Wildcats’ loss to Massachusetts. The converted 50-footer, which went in with 16 seconds left on the 30-second clock, sent the crowd of 4,417 into a frenzy — and made Monroe an instant campus celebrity, as all the network affiliates in Charlotte showed the amazing footage in full.

“It’s been a lot of fun the first day or so,” Monroe said when reached Friday, “to say the least. Back in high school, I’d do it just messing around before practice,” added Monroe, who played three years on the varsity team at Providence Day. “And I’ve done it a couple of times in Baker, so I knew I could do it. I was just lucky enough to be able to do it when it counted.”

According to Monroe, the first contestant to have won in the promotion’s two-year existence, once the first shot — his free throw — went in, the pressure was off from there. “I felt like I had a good chance to make the first three,” he said. And the last one? “That was the one I was least nervous about. I knew I had plenty of time. I caught my breath and threw it up there. I could tell it was on target.” And when it went in? “I don’t think I’ve ever jumped that high.”

To run a season-long promotion such as this one, the Athletic Department had to take out an insurance policy. The insurance company now has to check the videotape to verify Monroe’s performance. According to Director of Promotions Alec McAlister, Monroe will receive official word — and a $25,000 check — in a couple of weeks. “They’ve got to make sure he’s not standing on any lines, that kind of stuff,” McAlister said. “I’ve looked at the tape. He’s good.” After taxes, Monroe will walk away with approximately $17,000. Already an owner of a 1994 Honda Accord, Monroe thinks that he will keep the money. “I don’t need a new car,” he said, “I’ll just keep the money and do something with it in the future.”

Monroe does, however, have one complaint. “The only bad thing is that I can’t play NCAA sports anymore,” he said.

“The Changing Role of Management in the Changing Workplace”
A Panel Discussion Featuring:
Mr. John Ford, President of Leading Well
Dr. Pierce Howard, Head of the Center for Applied Cognitive Studies
Dr. John Kello, Professor of Psychology

Monday, February 2, 4 - 5 p.m., 900 Room, College Union

- These panelists have a breadth of experience in the contemporary organizational world, and their perspectives on changing trends in management should be of interest to all students who are considering management careers.
- Light refreshments will be served.
- Sponsored by The Premanagement Committee.