Women turn it up, capture tournament
By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

They’re back. The Davidson women’s basketball team reestablished themselves this weekend, rolling past Bucknell and Eastern Carolina University on their
way to a third consecutive Roundball Invitational Tournament championship. Jamie Brown captured the Most Outstanding Player award for the tournament,
and junior point guard Jen O’Brien joined Brown on the All-Tournament Team.

“Jamie Brown stepped up big in both games,” praised Head Coach John Filar. “She is so explosive. If I was
a coach having to defend her, I don’t know what I'd do. She can hurt you in so many ways.”

Resounding answers. The wins could not have come at a more crucial time. “At this time last week,” described Filar,
“we were probably lower than when we came back from the Southwest Missouri game. The fact that we lost to
Chattanooga (the previous Saturday) the way we did, we had a lot of questions to answer.”

Answer they did, knocking off UNC-Charlotte before winning two more games in tournament action this weekend to piece together a
three-game winning streak. Davidson faced Bucknell in the semi-final game on Saturday afternoon. The Wildcats jumped out to a 15-6
lead in the first five minutes of the game and built that lead to 50-36 by the half. For the
first time this season, all fourteen players saw action, and thirteen of them scored. Jen O’Brien led the team with
22 points, while Jamie Brown added 20 points and 11 rebounds for a double-double on the afternoon.

The right stuff. O’Brien’s resurgence was a beautiful sight for fans of Davidson basketball. “Jen was a lot more confident
today,” explained Jamie Brown. “In this game, she looked for her shot more, she drove well, and passed very well.
She got a lot of assists and scored a lot of points, and hit the board hard. She just played
all around a very solid game, and we can expect that from her the rest of the season.”

Freshman Kelly Copland continued to impress the coaching staff with her athleticism and basketball prowess. Copland, the first-ever Californian to
play women’s basketball at Davidson, pitched in six points, a blocked shot, and a pair of steals in thirteen minutes
of play.

Prior to this weekend’s tournament, Filar admitted that the pre-season Southern Conference Player of the Year had “gone away a
little bit too much from looking for her stuff. But Jen does an excellent job of trying to get everybody
else the ball early in the season to help their confidences. She needs to continue to look for her stuff,
because that’s important for us.” If 22 points, 9 assists, and only one turnover in 29 minutes of floor time
is any indication, she found it.

Off the bench. Davidson’s second unit scored 27 points on Saturday afternoon. JoAnne Hassel came off the bench to assume
the point for the Wildcat second squad and the offense didn’t miss a beat. “She brought us a nice spark,”
said Filar. O’Brien added, “JoAnne came in and really played well, she did an awesome job. She’s such a solid
player.”

East Carolina defeated Elon College on Saturday, earning the right to challenge Davidson for the championship on Sunday.

Champs again. E.C.U. entered the game with a perfect 5-0 record, but proved no match for the surging Wildcat squad.
Davidson jumped out to a 19-7 lead in the first ten minutes of play. But E.C.U. stormed back, mounting a
14-0 run in less than six minutes. Jess Montrella broke the scoring drought with a free throw at the two-minute
mark, and Davidson led 28-27 at the half. The Wildcats scored the first six points of the second half and
never looked back. Jamie Brown led all scorers with 24 points, while Kerry Brown contributed 19 points. “Kerry was outstanding,”
said Filar. “She really stepped up and played a great game.”

Men’s Basketball Roundup
Turn to page 15 to catch up on the Men’s Basketball season

Stephen Curry calls for the NCAA to shorten men’s basketball games

Jamie Brown
The senior captain notched a double-double on Saturday and guided the Wildcats to a championship in the Roundball Invitational.the second
half and eventually ran away from E.C.U., winning the ball game 82-62. Kerry Brown and Jessica Montrella each contributed fantastically
today,” said Filar, “And Jess has been as steady as anybody out there on the floor.” O’Brien proved her game
is back for good, racking up 10 assists and 12 points in a brilliant performance against E.C.U. At times, though,
the atmosphere at the game seemed more along the lines of a WWE match than a college basketball contest. E.C.U.
Head Coach Dee Gibson was ejected with two technical fouls, while almost poking holes in our hardwood floor with her
stomping high heels. The unsportsmanlike conduct was not confined to the bench. One E.C.U. spectator was escorted from the arena
after a verbal altercation that escalated into a melee when the man began choking a Davidson senior. “It was a
wild atmosphere,” noted Filar. “Two years ago as a younger team, we’d have probably gotten so caught up in that.
But when all that junk was going on, our players were so focused. They’re a very determined bunch that have
their heads on straight and they did a great job of letting those distractions go in one ear and out
the other.” The Wildcats have remained perfect in the tournament, claiming the championship in each of the three years since
its inauguration. “This was the strongest field of any tournament we’ve had so far,” said Filar. “To beat a USA-Conference
team, a Patriot Conference team, and a Colonial Conference Team—all conferences that are ranked higher than ours—I don’t know if
we’ve ever had as good a week as we just had.”

Depleted ‘Cats roster struggles in Virginia
By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

In their first meet since mid-November, the Wildcat swimming and diving team (2-5) took on Lehigh University, the University of
Delaware, and William & Mary at Hargrove Military Academy. For both the women and the men, the meet was characterized
by mixed results. While both teams defeated the University of Delaware by 61 and 94 points respectively, they both experienced
tough defeats at the hands of Lehigh and William & Mary. “I think we did very well considering some of
the team is sick and we are struggling through exams,” said freshman Graham Gravely. “We tried to overcome that and
perform well.” Individual standouts for the ‘Cats included Graham Gravely, Terry Dolch, Kurt Hirsekorn, and Sam Kuykendall for the men’s
team and Mary Shell Brosche, Beth Wilson, Elissa Weddle, and Liz Nugent on the women’s side. Gravely, a freshman from
Dublin, Va., took second in the mile, 66 lengths of the pool, with a time of 16:38. “I feel I’m
progressing as the season goes along,” said Gravely. Also, junior Terry Dolch won the 100 and 200 yard backstrokes. Sophomore
Kurt Hirsekorn and junior Sam Kuykendall also had solid meets as Hirsekorn won the 400 yard individual medley while taking
second in the 200 breaststroke by .48 seconds. Kuykendall took second in the 200 fly. On the women’s side, junior
Mary Shell Brosche had an outstanding meet for the ‘Cats, claiming victory in the 200 and 400 yard individual medleys.
Junior Beth Wilson won the 100 breaststroke, while sophomore Elissa Weddle took first and third in the 50 and 100
yard freestyle events. Finally, freshman diver Liz Nugent helped the ‘Cats out by winning the one-meter diving event and taking
third place on the three-meter. Both the men’s and women’s teams now stand at 2-5. The ‘Cats will look to
avenge their loss to Lehigh on January 8th when they travel to Ft. Lauderdale, FL for their annual training trip.

Men
Lehigh 195 Wildcats 153.5
Delaware 128.5 Wildcats 207
William & Mary 184.5 Wildcats 164.5

Women
Lehigh 213 Wildcats 140
Delaware 146 Wildcats 222.5
William & Mary 215 Wildcats 129

Please ask Santa for a camera so you can take pictures for the tournament this weekend. Brown was selected Most
Outstanding Player of the Tournament. Arena tonight. The team looks Davidsonian Sports!
