THE DAVIDSONIAN
Arts & Living

Project Nim resuscitates 900 Room
Collegiate rock band grooves into the night
By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Arts and Living Editor

Saturday night saw one of Davidson’s best concerts of the year in the 900 Room, “Mecklenburg County’s Forum for Indie
Rock.” Project Nim, all of whose members (according to lead vocalist Jenn Howard) are “about to graduate,” played a two-hour
gig at the Union, bringing some vitality back to the campus entertainment scene and welcoming several hundred feisty Davidson students
back from spring break.

Project Nim’s five members (lead vocalist, lead guitarist, bass guitarist, drummer, and keyboardist) created a familiarly harrowing sound at times,
although distinct comparisons to larger bands were tough to come by. The lead vocalist had sort of a Natalie-Merchant-on-acid thing
happening. Someone said they sounded like Pearl Jam, but Eddie Vedder et al foster a brighter, more upbeat sound than
the Nimsters. All in all, their music was very “groovy,” without the funk elements that tend to complement grooviness. Most
of the students in the crowd, Dave Matthews Band lovers and haters alike, seemed quite pleased with the performance. Nim’s
cover of the Janis Joplin classic “Me and Bobby McGee” was most well-received. As for beverages, the water at the
bar was at its tastiest on that fine evening.

Project Nim’s members, all of whom appeared to be somewhere in their 20s, hail from Columbia University, Yale University, and
elsewhere. Rumors that one of the band’s members was a Davidson student have gone unconfirmed. They play shows up and
down the Eastern seaboard and have opened for The Nields (of 1997 Spring Frolics fame) on several occasions. The band’s
name was derived from the name of an obscenely expensive, federally-funded chimpanzee study, allegedly run through Columbia University. Project Nim
has been dubbed “the best band in the world” by one Columbia student. A debatable assessment, yes, but one cannot
deny Project Nim’s impressive reception on Saturday night; they deserved it. They were all pretty good instrumentalists, especially the keyboard
guy.

Hodson hosts “Our Town” this week
Press Release
College Relations

Davidson College invites the public to share in the 60th anniversary of Thornton Wilder’s classic American drama, “Our Town.” The
Davidson theatre department will present this Pulitzer Prize-winning play Mar. 18-22 in Hodson Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Show
times are 8 p.m. Wednesday, Mar. 18 through Saturday, Mar. 21. The Sunday, Mar. 22, matinee will begin at 2:30
p.m. Ticket prices are $6 for adults and $4 for students and seniors. Tickets can be reserved by calling the
ticket office at 892-2350 from 2-5 p.m. starting the week of the show. Tickets may also be purchased at the
door.

“Our Town” continues to be regarded as one of the best representations of American life and remains a landmark of
theatrical craftsmanship. This heartening, compassionate play concerns the lives of neighbors and friends in a small New Hampshire village before
the Great Wars. It focuses on main characters Emily Webb and George Gibbs, childhood playmates who become romantically interested in
each other as they grow older. Their happiness is intense, but, in a twist that gives “Our Town” the intense
pathos that has caused it to become one of the most emotional experiences in all of drama, their joy is
short-lived.

Director Ronnie Higdon has combined theatre, music, and dance (choreographed by Dance Davidson’s Terilynne Knox) in the production to add
strength and emotion to Wilder’s theme of the simplicity and universality of the human experience. The show features senior Nathan
Raley as George Gibbs and freshman Rosalie Esteves as Emily Webb. Senior Sarah Hankins provides the narrations as the omniscient
stage manager. For more information on the production, call the Theatre department at 892-2361.

Poet Robert Hill Long to read latest works
Press Release
College Relations

Davidson College welcomes the return of alumnus and poet Robert Hill Long to present the College’s 1998 R. Windley Hall
Writing Award for first-year students and read from his newest book of poems, “The Work of the Bow.” The public
is invited to this free reading and awards ceremony on Wednesday, Mar. 25, beginning at 7:30 p.m. in the College
Union 900 Room.

Long, who graduated from Davidson with a B.A. in comparative literature in 1975, was the founding director of the North
Carolina Writers’ Network in 1984. He has taught at Clark University, Smith College, and the University of Hartford, and now
teaches at the University of Oregon. HisPoems and short prose pieces have appeared in anthologies including “Best American Poetry 1995”
(Touchstone) and “Flash Fiction” (Norton), and in the “Hudson Review,” “Iowa Review,” “Kenyon Review,” “New England Review,” “Poetry,” and many
other magazines. Thomas Lux, faculty member of the Warren Wilson College master’s degree writing program, said of Long’s “The Work
of the Bow,” “There are poems here that are so human and alive they will break your heart and end
up leaving it better.” The R. Windley Hall Writing Award is presented to first-year students for excellence in works of
fiction, poetry, or non-fiction prose. For more information on Hill’s presentation at Davidson, call the English department at 892-2254.

“Let’s boogaloo ‘til we puke”: Woodwind and Jazz Ensembles put on great show
By JOSHUA BENNETT
Staff Writer

Admittedly, walking into the Davidson College Woodwind & Jazz Ensemble concert last Wednesday night, I was not envisioning myself having
loads of fun. Back me up, when the word “oboe” pops into your mind, do the words “rockin’ music” simultaneously
come with it? Not for me, either. Fortunately for me, because I’ve experienced a costly liberal arts education which has
made me a well-rounded individual, I am now able to own up to the obscure occasion when I am incorrect.
So I am now admitting that my preconceived notions of what I was to see were wrong. ‘Cause I heard
some damn good music.

Playing the last show of a spring break tour which had taken them through South Carolina and Georgia, the Woodwind
& Jazz Ensembles gathered in Love Auditorium to delight the audience with melodic phrases produced by their ample lungs. The
first half of the show was comprised only of the woodwinds, which began with a medley of sea songs conducted
by music major Erika Rissing. Music Department chair William Lawing then came out to conduct the rest of the show,
with the ensemble playing the “Netherlands Suite” and “Songs of the West.” This half of the concert was quite entertaining
and well-performed. The song selections were varied enough to keep my interest and attention, which, after years of MTV and
Nintendo, is almost impossible to do. The musicians had obviously put in their practice time and played the music flawlessly
(or at least if they didn’t, I wasn’t slick enough to figure it out). It was also an enlightening experience
for me to hear an ensemble made up exclusively of woodwinds. I was impressed with what a unique and harmonious
sound they can produce.

The second half of the show brought out the Jazz Ensemble, and I found to my dismay that the expected
two-drink minimum was not enforced. They performed nine jazz pieces such as crowd favorite “What’s Up Chick Corea” and a
revised version of the Duke Ellington standard “Take the A-Train,” all introduced and explained by Dr. Lawing. Various works featured
solos by guitarist Ross Hagen, drummer Aaron Patton, and saxophonist Derek Kverno, who, like the proverbial fat lady in a
Baroque aria, all demonstrated their virtuosity to a wide-eyed crowd. Although I had really never listened to much jazz music,
the concert was a nice introduction for me, showing the audience old, famous pieces along with the not-so-well-known. I truly
enjoyed the show and was sorry to see it end. It changed the way I think about jazz music, changing
it from something that just “artsy” and “deep” people listen to into a widely accessible musical genre.

So now that I’ve finished my Woodwind/Jazz love-fest, I feel the need to rage on something, just to level out
the chemicals in my brain. Here is the one thing that disturbed me about Wednesday night: I counted about as
many people on stage as I counted in the audience. Turnout wasn’t that bad, but it was far from stellar.
Now I could make a plea for people to come and support the hard work of their fellow students, but
if you’re anything like me, you're fairly self-centered and probably don’t give a happy damn about anyone else’s hard work.
So I'll put it like this: it is in your own best interest to go to concerts like this one.
You'll learn stuff. You’ll experience new things. And it is one of few edifying experiences at Davidson that is absolutely
free. So come on, put down your chemistry book, quit surfing the ‘net, stop playing your Nintendo 64, and go
to the next concert that comes along. It won’t hurt a bit, I swear.
