_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Sikszentmihalyi brings fresh outlook to Religion

TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1998

Professor finds new energy while on leave

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

When he left campus at the conclusion of the 1996-97 academic year, Mark Csikszentmihalyi, a professor of Religion, had the highest hopes for an uninterrupted, year-long hiatus from the classroom, a time in which to pursue strictly research. The subtly entrancing powers of Chambers apparently foiled his plans. At the behest of a colleague, Csikszentmihalyi made an extremely brief appearance on campus last year to deliver a pair of lectures to an Introduction to East Asian Studies class.

Csikszentmihalyi spent the greater part of the 1997-98 academic year, however, at North Carolina’s Research Triangle Park as a resident fellow at the National Humanities Center. Csikszentmihalyi’s research centered on recently unearthed Chinese religious texts dating from as far back as 300 B.C.

Csikszentmihalyi describes an awareness of new developments in his field as the motivating force behind his research. “With early Chinese religion, there’s rarely news in the field,” said Csikszentmihalyi. “That’s why these recent discoveries of documents lost for over two thousand years have proven so monumental. These are dateable texts. They alter our perception of early Chinese religion, make us reevaluate everything. It’s a really interesting time to be in this field.”

Csikszentmihalyi’s studies specifically addressed the link between Confucian moral imperatives and Daoist notions of chi, or internal human energy. “To put it in a nutshell,” stated Csikszentmihalyi, “the texts say, ‘You become a virtuous person by doing good acts. Doing good acts makes the chi of the particular virtues grow in your body and increases your disposition to act in a moral way in the future.’ There’s a great deal of cyclicality involved.

“We find Confucianism and Taoism blended in a way we’ve never seen them blended before. Science and ethics are also closely related here.”

A portion of Csikszentmihalyi’s time at the National Humanities Center found him strictly engaged in the translation of ancient Chinese religious texts. “Afternoons were more the time for my theoretical pursuits and writing,” said Csikszentmihalyi.

A book which the Davidson professor edited at Research Triangle Park is already set for publication, while one he, himself, authored there is slated for submission to a publisher in January. Csikszentmihalyi’s research endeavor has also borne fruit in the form of two journal articles, one which appeared in “Religion” last January and one which will appear in “Asia Major” this coming December.

“I’ll feel the research is complete when the book is actually out,” said Csikszentmihalyi. “Over time, you come to realize that academic production is not just about having the ideas and doing the initial research. It’s also carrying things through. That’s one of the things we’ve been trying to stress to our seniors. Producing and presenting a polished final product is critical for success in any research endeavor.”

Csikszentmihalyi characterizes his experience at the National Humanities Center as a tremendous opportunity. Said Csikszentmihalyi, “To be among a group of top national and international scholars was a bit humbling at first, but the human resource base there was simply invaluable.” Through both formal and informal conversations, Csikszentmihalyi said that he found himself able to network with many of the top minds in his field. “The staff was very helpful and access to materials was excellent,” he added.

“I got a lot out of the experience,” said Csikszentmihalyi. “I’m going to be a better teacher and colleague because of it. In a way, I feel like I’ve refueled. I’ve revamped the courses I’m teaching. I have all these new ideas I want to try out on people. Research really does make for better teaching.”

Members of Csikszentmihalyi’s Ethics and Natural Philosophy in Early China fall semester seminar at Davidson are already reaping the benefits of the professor’s newly revived, strongly flowing creative juices. “It’s exciting to teach material you’ve been so recently, so intimately engaged with,” stated Csikszentmihalyi.

Soon to come: One Card for everything

New card system will replace current CAT cards

By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

When students return to classes in January 1999, they will find that the old Cat Card system has been replaced. Kurt Holmes, Director of Resident Life, and Richard Terry, head of Auxiliary Services, are working hard to get the new system ready. The new One Card system has many possibilities for making life at Davidson easier for students and faculty.

The new card will be digital and resemble a credit card with identification photos. The new photos will be processed in the same manner as the Department of Motor Vehicles’ photos. Students will be able to view their photo first to ensure that they get the image they want on the card that will be with them at all times. The photos will also be stored on a disk, so a new photo will not be needed if the card is lost.

The One Card system has the capabilities to handle vending machine sales, parking, copiers, and even high-quality printing systems. These services will not be available by next semester, but should be available in the near future. The new card will eliminate many of the old problems associated with the Cat Card. Kurt Holmes describes the old Cat Card...as “a very cumbersome process for students.” To set up a Cat Card, students now have to go to Auxiliary Services to obtain their photos. New students have to make arrangements with the bookstore to obtain a declining balance, with the Commons for a meal plan, with the library to check out books, and with Patterson Court to obtain a PCC sticker.

The creation of the new science building has necessitated changes to the existing Cat Card system. Last year, there were 32 access terminals for the Cat Card. Watson alone has 32 terminals, doubling Davidson’s access system. The reason Watson has so many terminals is because there are numerous high-technology labs. For example, the animal research section cannot afford someone walking into a lab and unintentionally destroying an experiment. For the meantime, students with night and weekend obligations in Watson will have to have two cards to access the building. The current system was installed about seven years ago and is connected to phone lines. The system cannot handle upgraded equipment such as newer cash registers.

Terry described the problem: “It is like trying to upgrade an old-fashioned rotary phone with call waiting and voice mail.” The current system is not capable of handling problems that will occur with the year 2000. Terry said the move to a new system is “not to replace what we have but to upgrade it.” The One Card system has the capabilities to solve many problems on campus. The senior apartments will eventually have access by cards instead of codes that an intruder could possibly obtain. From a legal perspective, this new system will be called “an access system, not a security system,” said Holmes. The main purpose of the One Card system is to ensure that all who should have admittance to a particular facility do, and those who should not are prevented from entering.

Watson has also caused many problems for the ID checkers at the door. The cards could also check automatically if students are over 21, so wristbands and two IDs for the 900 room would no longer be needed. A red light would appear on the terminal if a student is under 21. Student Government could use the system for voting, which would also prevent double votes and keep track of those who did vote. Baker Sports Complex could have terminals at the doors and replace the impractical method of checking Cat Cards at the front desk. Vending machines also can be added to the system. Students will no longer have to carry around change and can squander their precious bonus bucks or declining balance on candy bars and soda.

The new system has the capability for many great innovations on the campus which Kurt Holmes said “could be up and running by next fall.” Currently, Residence Life and Auxiliary Services are preparing to have part of the system up by January. When students return, new terminals will be in place for all 64 access locations on campus. The One Card system is a joint process between the Sales department and Residence Life. Auxiliary Services has moved from the top floor of the Commons to the basement of Belk, joining Residence Life and making the conversion process easier. The system is handled by one database that saves both departments a lot of time and money. Starting in October, students will have to stop by the basement of Belk to receive their new cards. The One Card System will automatically take care of library, bookstore, bonus bucks, meal plans, and Patterson Court obligations. Freshmen will be able to send in pictures for their cards over the summer. Their cards will be ready for them when they arrive, making orientation much easier.

Currently, the vending machines on campus are being examined to see if they can be upgraded to the new system. If all goes well, the current vendors can be kept, and the “goal is for vending machines to be online by January,” said Terry. The new system is very complex, so it may take a while for all the glitches to be worked out. Holmes asked the students “to have patience with the new system.”

Alcohol policy becomes more rigid

Several changes have been made to the Alcohol Policy. These changes were brought about by an ad-hoc committee made up of both students and administrative representatives. The amended Alcohol Policy changes things both for the Patterson Court houses and for individual students. Each house must now have Risk Management at “members-only events,” as it has been the custom for them to do at larger functions. Houses must also stamp the hands of those students whose PCC stickers have been verified. The hope is that this system will facilitate reentry. Furthermore, the new Alcohol Policy mandates that each house carry an insurance policy worth at least $1 million.

An amended Alcohol Policy will change things for students in two ways. First is the incorporation of a “Good Samaritan” statement, which clearly states that “students who observe a medical or other emergency are obligated to call for help.” The second is that, although alcohol must stop being served at 12 midnight at weekday parties and 1:30 a.m. on weekend parties, it may be in or around the house for one hour following the end of service. These changes in the Alcohol Policy were adopted after several students required hospitalization for overconsumption last academic year.