U PP -OoR TT A — Football knocks on the door of history By Mike ANDERSON Staff Writer The Davidson Wildcat football team is 6-2. No, you’re not suffering from temporary dyslexia. Yes, this is the same football program that has fielded only six winning teams in the last forty years. And, yes, this is the same football program that has posted seven-win seasons only three times in our storied 101-year history. The ‘Cats improved their record to 6-2 Saturday with a 23-7 victory over Hampden-Sydney College, who moved to 3-6. It was an action-packed second quarter, with 28 of the game’s 30 points being scored in that frame. Hampden-Sydney attained the first lead of the game on a 1-yard run by Shannon Evans with 12:01 left in the second quarter. The touchdown dive capped off a 9-play 39-yard drive. Kicker Todd Rudzinski added a PAT, and the Wildcats found themselves down 7-0. Not for long. Davidson answered with an 8-play, 73-yard drive, scoring on a touchdown run by Eric Ferguson from 34 yards out. With 2:33 left in the second quarter and the game tied, Corey Crawford put the ‘Cats up with a 2-yard touchdown run. Langley booted his second PAT of the game, and Davidson led 14-7. Less than a minute later, junior defensive back Chad Wright intercepted a pass from Hampden-Sydney’s Walt Bondurant. Wright returned the interception 32 yards for the ‘Cats third touchdown of the quarter, and a 21-7 lead. With twenty-five seconds left in the contest, the ‘Cats defense scored.

Swimming and Diving sinks Emory By ALISON KALETT Sports Editor The Davidson swimming and diving team (1-2) earned their first win of the season in impressive fashion over the weekend. With their parents cheering them on, the men’s team won 9 of the 13 events by a score of 141 to 84, while the women put on an even more impressive display, winning 12 of 13 events including both 1 meter and 3 meter diving events. The final score for the women was 176 to 63. On the men’s team, standouts included the 400 meter medley relay team made up of junior Terry Dolch, Matt West, Scott Harper, and Michael McCabe. The team won the medley with a time of 3:36.07. Dolch and McCabe also made their presences felt in the individual events, winning the 200 meter backstroke and the 200 meter freestyle respectively. Other Wildcat winners included Graham Gravely who won both the 500 and 1000 meter freestyle events. Sophomore Kurt Hirsekorn triumphed in the 200 individual medley and the 200 meter breaststroke, while Michael Warner showed off his sprinting ability winning both the 50 and 100 meter freestyles. As for the winners on the women’s team? Well, that includes nearly every member of the squad. The women triumphed in every event except the 400 meter freestyle medley. Senior Mary Shell Brosche had an outstanding meet, winning the 200 meter freestyle, the 200 meter individual medley, and the 200 meter backstroke. Freshman Leisa Rossello made her presence felt by winning the 500 and 1000 meter freestyle events. Other winners in the swimming events included junior Rachel Horak, Starr Daniell, Elissa Weddle, Beth Wilson, and Allison Hobgood. Also playing a key role in Davidson’s victory was sophomore diver Christa Conner and freshman diver Elizabeth Nugent. Conner took first place in both the one and three meter events. The win on the three-meter board was especially impressive because this was the first meet this season in which three meter diving was included. Nugent took second in both events, completing the ‘Cats first and second place sweep of the diving competition. The Wildcats currently stand at 1 and 2 overall. Their next meet is at home this Saturday, Nov. 7th, at noon against East Carolina and Georgia Southern.

Men’s Soccer ends regular season with a win By Lindsey Vact Guest Writer Last Wednesday the men’s soccer had the unenviable task of taking on the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The ‘Cats fought hard but were eventually outscored 4 to 2. The University of North Carolina Heel’s men’s soccer team went into the game with a 9-4-2 record, The Cat’s were 4-14. The starting lineup had Stroble in goal, Kleiman, Holbrook, and Buehler up front, Lindsey, Harrell, Culbertson and Erickson at mid-field, and Ryser, Lanoha and Cann as defenders. The first goal came at 26:57 into the game by UNC’s Nozomu Yamauchi. The second came just a few minutes later at 32:30 by Tarheel Joey DiSalvo off a penalty kick. The cat’s fought back, though, and freshman Paul Watson put one in at 36:51 with the assist by freshman Derek Kilburn. UNC led 2-1 entering the second half. After the half, sophomore Dane Erickson scored off a penalty kick at 51:14 to tie the game at two. UNC wasn’t too happy about the score and put two more in back to back at 57:27 and 59:27. Two yellow cards were handed out to UNC’s Jon Wean and Davidson’s David Buehler. Hart Roper returned to play after having been sidelined by an ankle injury. Davidson ultimately fell by a score of 4 to 2. Junior Andrew Holbrook summed up the team’s sentiments, “Everyone played their best at once, but didn’t come together as a team. We didn’t click.” Next game. Parent’s weekend. Richardson Field, two o’clock on Saturday versus The Citadel, who are 2-5 in the conference. It was Senior Day and the seven seniors were honored before the game. Six of the seven started: Brad Stroble, Richard Kleiman, Fred Ryser, Drew Lindsey, Jeff Harrell and Wes Roach. They were joined by Andy Lanoha, Lawrence Cann, Patrick Miller, David Buehler, and Dane Erickson. Goalie Marshall Tyler, the seventh senior, did not play. The Rundown: goal number one of the game went to the Citadel’s JR Byrd at 9:48. DC’s Wes Roach scored soon after at 12:16 with the assist by David Buehler. Hart Roper had a strong shot on goal that was saved. At 30:38, Lee McPhatter scored for the Citadel. A yellow card was given to bulldog Ryan Lister, the only one of the first half. The Citadel led 2-1 at the half. Second Half: With the goalie out of the cage, Fred Ryser and Andrew Holbrook worked together and had a shot that was saved. After kicking one of the six total Wildcat corners of theGame, Jeff Harrell also had an excellent shot that was close but over the goal. The second Davidson goal came at 69:36 by Ikenna Myers, assisted by Derek Kilburn on a breakaway. The winning goal came at 78:24 when Lawrence Cann took the ball up the field by himself to score for Davidson. Two yellows were given out in the second 45 minutes. One went to the Citadel’s Cliff Speaks, the other to another bulldog, Scott Taylor. Quick stats: shots on goal, DC 12, Citadel 5. Saves, DC 2, Citadel 5. Corners, DC 6, Citadel 1. Davidson’s record now stands at 5-15 overall and 4-4 in the conference. Coach Charlie Slagle commented on the game, “We had a positive second half and came back playing hard after we were down.” Also, Chris Murray had a fantastic game and Hart Roper pushed it to the max despite getting elbowed in the face and not having it called. Also, Brad Stroble was completely focused in goal. The ‘Cats have their first game of the Southern Conference Tournament on Tuesday at the College of Charleston.

Again, this time on a safety. Do the math: Davidson’s defensive unit 9, Hampden-Sydney 7. The ‘Cats offense did a spectacular job of spreading the ball around—five different players rushed or received for 30+ yards. Bryan Kern led the team with 72 yards on the ground on just 14 attempts. Ferguson tacked on 62, and Dugan rushed for 57. Sophomore Corey Crawford continued to shine—racking up 30 yards on the ground and 40 in the air. And senior Tommy Dugan continued to build on his total-yardage record, passing for 78 yards and rushing for 57. It might not be an overstatement to say that the 1998 Wildcats have a rendezvous with history. The ‘Cats have two opponents remaining on the schedule, Centre College (2-6) and Bridgewater (0-8). Two more victories will make Coach Landis’s 1998 ‘Cats the best squad ever to don the Wildcat red and black. The Wildcats will host Centre College on Saturday, 1:30 PM, at Richardson Field. Senior Day will be celebrated on this last home game of the season. Corey Crawford & company: You're 6-2. Can you feel the love?

Field Hockey takes 2 of 3 in tourney
By David Moncure
Staff Writer

The Wildcat field hockey team wrapped up an exciting season this past weekend at the Deep South Tournament at Appalachian State University. The girls went 2-1 in the tournament and came within three goals of winning the tournament. On Friday the ‘Cats played Quinnipiac University and won 2-1. This was a tight game down to the wire until Kate Schoening scored in the last two minutes of the game to lead the ‘Cats to victory. It was a great confidence booster for the team to start off the tournament with such an exciting win. Appalachian State was next in line for the Wildcats, but the outcome was not as favorable for the ‘Cats as when the two teams met earlier in the week. Despite winning 3-0 at the beginning of the week, the Wildcats lost to Appalachian State 2-0 on Saturday. Coach Jennifer Halliday remarked, “Overall we outshot them, but we just couldn’t put the ball in the goal.” Appalachian State ended up winning the tournament. Sunday was perhaps the most exciting day for the girls, who faced off against Catawba. Davidson won the hard-fought game 4-3 in overtime. Jenny Gold scored the winning goal for the ‘Cats in overtime. The brightest moment from this game was the appearance of senior co-captain Lindsay Parker late in the first half. She helped the team out with an assist despite having a torn ACL and being diagnosed as out of action for the season. It was a great way for the senior to end her season. In honor of their outstanding play, four girls made the all-tournament team: senior co-captain Lowell Rayburn, junior Shana Byers, junior Nancy Livingstone, and junior Kim Ceci. The Wildcats finished their 7-12 season strong, winning 5 out of their last 6 games.

Soccer is tripped up at ASU
By Brian Mayerhofer
Sports Editor

Appalachian St. may be the toughest place to play in the Southern Conference. With their unique artificial turf field, the Mountaineers were unbeaten at home entering last Wednesday’s contest with the Cats. After a hat trick by Jordy Broder, Appalachian St.’s home record remained unblemished as they defeated Davidson 4-2. While Davidson outshot ASU 12-7 and had more corner kicks by a tally of 6-2, finishing off opportunities was once again a problem. Still, it seemed that adjusting to the artificial turf on such a cold night was as big a factor as any. Appalachian took a 2-0 lead behind goals by Broder and Naoshi Yamauchi. Early in the second half, the Cats cut the lead to one as Andrew Holbrook scored his team-high 6th goal of the year. While the Cats had several decent opportunities, the score remained 2-1 until Broder notched his second goal of the night at the 72:42 mark. He finished off his hat trick about 12 minutes later. Davidson would add one more goal as freshman Chris Norbet scored off a Jeff Harrell pass to make it 4-2. For Norbet, who has played well since being called up from JV, it was his second goal of the year. Against ASU, Harrell assisted on both goals.

SCOREBOARD
PLAYER OF THE WEEK
Women’s Soccer
Wildcats 1
Mary Shell Brosche
UNC Asheville

Football
Wildcats 23
Hampden-Sydney 7

Field Hockey
Wildcats 2
Quinnipiac 1

Swimming
Wildcats 2
UNC 4

Men’s Soccer
Wildcats 0
App. St. 2

Swimming & Diving
Wildcats 141
Emory 84

Women’s Soccer
Wildcats 4
Catawba 3

Swimming & Diving
Men: Wildcats 176, Emory 63
Women: Wildcats 176, Emory 63

GAME OF THE WEEK
Men’s Soccer SC Tour.
Tues. Nov. 3rd @ College of Charleston

Women’s Soccer SC Tour.
Tues. Nov. 3rd vs. Wofford @ Furman 7 PM

Men’s Soccer
Nov. 3rd @ C. of Charleston 7 PM

Football
Nov. 7th vs. Centre College 1:30 PM

Golf
Nov. 1-3 Day. Fall Invit.

Swimming & Diving
Nov. 6th @ Charleston 7 PM
Nov. 7th @ G. Southern 12 PM