THE DAVIDSONIAN

Service Learning Saturday Tends meaning to Orientation

By Lauren BECTON
Staff Writer

Every Davidson student who entered as a freshman knows about the rigorous and time-consuming four days that first-year students spend during orientation. Long meetings, registration sessions, and other activities fill the hours before classes begin. One particular day, however, stands out as more beneficial and meaningful than the others. This was the day devoted to both a service project and discussion of this year’s freshman reading, “My Own Country,” by Dr. Abraham Verghese.

After meeting in Love Auditorium, the class was split into two sections. While one section participated in the book discussions, the other section did various service activities in small groups. The service groups did not leave the auditorium immediately. Instead, four members of the Davidson community spoke on what service means, both generally and personally. This half of the class of 2002 then separated and followed their team leaders to the service projects assigned to them.

The students tackled several projects on that warm, sunny morning. Among the benefiting organizations were Habitat for Humanity and the Ada Jenkins Community Center. Not only did the new students become more aware of service activities available around campus, but profited themselves from helping others and having an opportunity to talk with fellow classmates. Grant Bleecher (Camarillo, CA) washed and waxed ambulances at a volunteer EMT service in Huntersville. He reflected, “It was a great thing to do...I liked that you were with people from other floors so you could meet new people.”

After reconvening for lunch, the classmates again dispersed, this time to the other activity. The afternoon devoted to My Own Country included a dramatic interpretation and large group discussion followed by small group meetings. The scenes, performed by students in the Davidson Theatre Department, were adapted for performance by Anthony Abbott and directed by the department’s Ann Marie Costa. After rehearsing for only five days prior to the production, the six students portrayed in two scenes the individual personalities of the characters and the essence of the subject. Small groups then discussed various issues brought up by Verghese’s book, including AIDS as a fatal disease and social barrier. Marisa Wilson (Salisbury, NC) said, “It was a really interesting topic. I liked hearing what other people had to say.”

All in all, the day was the most successful of the orientation program. The class of 2002 learned about themselves, each other, and their community.

A & L wants YOU.

By Amy POE AND RYLAND WALLER
Staff Writers

Mixers — any freshmen gathering, organized by hall counselors, involving two or more freshmen halls, that can be defined by activities which may or may not include some of the following: bowling, trips to Ben and Jerry’s, making s’mores, ultimate frisbee games, scavenger hunts, lip sync contests, body painting.

Everyone remembers his or her first freshmen mixer. Whether it was wild and crazy or quiet and relaxed it was a great way to meet other class members and begin new friendships. This year there has been a wide range of activities for the mixers, but regardless they have all brought the freshmen class closer together.

One of this year’s mixers required each girl from second center Belk to select a tie from a pile created by a guy’s hall. The tie’s owner then became the girl’s bowling partner for the evening. Other mixers have featured physical and vocal talents such as salsa and swing dancing as well as lip sync contests. But perhaps one of the most unusual mixers has been body painting. This activity required the girls and guys to take turns painting various theme-based artistic masterpieces on the other’s body.

So far freshmen mixers have been a great success. They have provided the freshmen a chance to become better acquainted with their fellow class members while creating interesting topics of conversation and a common bond. As one freshman girl said, “Mixers allow freshmen to get to know people from other halls in a relaxed environment while creating lasting memories.”

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1998

The Rhythm of the Trees

By Brian CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

After a peaceful summer, Davidson is once again a hive of activity. The campus has been officially designated an arboretum, with each of the 1650 existing trees tagged. Since then, new and different species have been planted.

A poor man’s “Boogie Nights”

By PAUL STEWART
Staff Writer

Something is very wrong with Mark Christopher’s new film, 54. Maybe the problem is that no real conflict is developed, maybe it’s that the main love interest is in the movie for 10 minutes, or maybe it’s because they use an 80-year-old grandmother that curses and snorts cocaine for sheer shock value. What I do know is that “54” fails at everything that Paul Thomas Anderson’s “Boogie Nights” did well. Both movies are very funny and approach 70’s subjects such as casual sex and drug use, but “54” glorifies these acts and leaves them unpunished while “Boogie Nights” has an underlying tragic tone. In fact, the climax of “54” is so miscalculated that it doesn’t even include the main character.

The movie opens in 1979 New Jersey with Shane O’Shea (Ryan Phillippe) talking about Studio 54, an actual New York City club owned by the now-dead Steve Rubell (Mike Myers). The club is notoriously hard to get into and on many nights, hundreds of people wait to get in. Only the most outrageously dressed are permitted entry. Shane looks over...the water at the city lights and dreams about going to Studio 54 and meeting his dream girl, Julie Black (Neve Campbell). The rest is very predictable. Shane leaves home, becomes famous at the studio, and meets sex partners and drug users along the way, the most memorable being Greg and Anita, a couple whose marriage in the movie is the only thing that seems real. It comes down to editing. Watching this movie, I realized that many scenes came out of nowhere and did absolutely nothing for the movie. Don’t get me wrong, there are good things about “54.” Many shots are done well technically, and all of the acting was very good, most notably Mike Myers’ Oscar-caliber performance. The set design makes the club look like a different world, and many scenes are high energy and funny with a great soundtrack as a backdrop. I was also pleasantly surprised to find that Shane and his younger sister love each other very much. She looks up to him and envies his lifestyle, but she doesn’t know what all the drugs and sex are doing to his body. Unfortunately, that’s also the biggest problem in the movie. The sex and drugs are doing nothing to his body. He never gets punished for his careless actions and no one really learns a lesson. On the surface, “54” is a nice movie to look at. The acting is very good and it’s an easy-going movie to watch. I just think that when dealing with a subject like this, there needs to be a tone of danger and of fear. Drugs and casual sex shouldn’t be funny all the time, and you won’t be laughing when you realize you wasted your money. Save two dollars and rent “Boogie Nights,” the movie that “54” desperately wanted to be but couldn’t. “54”: C+ “Boogie Nights”: A

September flicks thrilling (especially these three)
By Macaela Kozicharow
Staff Writer

Since 29 movies being released in September is a lot to choose from, here is a list of three must-see movies that are sure to cause a stir. Individually, they concern the themes of poker, family, and heroin use. Together they join New Hollywood and Old Hollywood, starlets and stars, and irresponsibility and salvation. See these films, take a breather, and then prepare for the other 115 movies coming this fall.

“Rounders” (Sept. 11): This poker-themed movie is one of the most eagerly anticipated of the year, not as much for storyline as for the gathering of hot actors who compose the poker table. Matt Damon, who proved his acting chops in “Good Will Hunting” and “Saving Private Ryan,” is paired with Ed Norton, who was nominated for Best Supporting Actor for his riveting debut in “Primal Fear.” The two men play best friends who flirt with love, immorality, and, of course, poker. Gretchen Mol completes the trendy cast as Damon’s girlfriend. The popular Mol is a true Hollywood success story since she has only acted in two other movies, one unreleased. She has made the cover of “Vanity Fair” and tops all the dream casting lists as the Girl of the Moment. These new kids on the block meet the Tinseltown regulars, Martin Landau, John Turturro, and John Malkovich, who round out the cast. This is a movie to see, no matter what. If it does well, you’ll be on the cutting edge. If it doesn’t, you’ll have something in common with the Hollywood insiders, who are following the stars of this film very carefully. So pull up a chair and enjoy the game.

“One True Thing” (Sept. 19): The first Oscar contender of the year brings together the long-ago-proven talent of Meryl Streep and the exciting freshness of Renee Zellweger (“Jerry Maguire”). Zellweger blew away most of last year’s performances with her dazzling starring role in “The Whole Wide World.” Rent this missed gem to see not only fine writing and thought-provoking themes, but also the work of a young actress who already knows the value of letting a few glances and expressions describe a character. In “One True Thing,” she plays a journalist who comes home to see her dying mother (Streep). The film is based on New York Times writer Anna Quindlen’s best-seller. It also stars William Hurt as Zellweger’s father. Coming off a summer of male-rich performances, the movie’s release opens the Oscar race for Best Actress and Supporting Actress. Even if the movie does not live up to its expectations, some people will probably attend just to take in the nuances of a Streep portrayal. Maybe in another five years, Zellweger will have the same reputation and following.

“Permanent Midnight” (Sept. 16): Ben Stiller has shown his ability as a director (“Reality Bites”), a writer (“The Ben Stiller Show”), and a comedic actor (this summer’s runaway hit “There’s Something about Mary”). He’s hoping to add dramatic actor to his repertoire. In “Permanent Midnight,” Stiller plays a TV writer addicted to heroin. Stiller gained 30 pounds and met with drug dealers and users to prepare for the role. Stiller usually plays the straight man in comedies and manages to gain viewers’ sympathies despite the weird antics going on around him. With this movie, Stiller should prove that he can tackle serious roles. The darkly comic movie also stars Janeane Garofalo and Elizabeth Hurley. Garofalo can be a scream if she takes the sarcasm down a notch. Hurley is in need of a breakthrough role that shows she isn’t just another pretty face. She isn’t and will land more high-profile parts as her career expands. The movie’s a bit of a gamble, but if it bombs, it'll be just a bump in Stiller's long career path.