14 By Alison Kalett Sports Editor

Last weekend the women’s swimming and diving team fell by a point; this week it was the men’s turn. Head coach Rick DeSelm said he was disappointed with the 114-113 loss. “We had the ability to win the meet but we didn’t get it done.”

Heading into the final event, the 400-yard freestyle relay, the Wildcats had to finish in at least second place to secure a win over Georgia Southern, but the ‘Cats finished third by 63 one-hundredths of a second, giving Georgia Southern a one-point victory. Although the meet came down to the final race, DeSelm was quick to point out that in a meet this close it is impossible to blame a single event or individual for the loss. DeSelm said a lot of other factors, such as a weak men’s diving team, contributed to the defeat.

On a positive note, junior Scott Harper won the 200-yard individual medley, junior Terry Dolch captured the 200 backstroke, and sophomore Kurt Hirsekorn took the 200 breaststroke. Besides winning the 200 back, Dolch also earned his best in-season times in the 100 back and the 200 individual medley. Also, freshman sprinter Michael Warner had an outstanding meet. His split time of 47.28 in the 400 freestyle relay was impressive.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Swim team comes up just short

Sophomore Elissa Weddle had a strong performance in the 100 freestyle, taking third place overall while swimming well in the 400 medley and freestyle relays. Senior captain Kathleen Paffenroth had what DeSelm termed a “very, very strong performance,” winning the 200 butterfly in 2:11.58. Finally, sophomore diver Christa Conner had possibly the strongest individual performance of the meet, winning the 3-meter diving event while taking second on the 1-meter by one point. “Christa Conner is getting back to form on the diving events,” DeSelm said. “She is coming off an injury and performing much better.”

Concerning the team as a whole, DeSelm said he felt mixed emotions. “Many people’s times are getting faster,” he said. “We continue to swim better throughout the season but we’re unable to swim multiple events at the level that we are capable of. We have trouble in close races.”

The ‘Cats have elected to take this weekend off, bypassing the Nike East Cup at the University of North Carolina. Their next meet is Dec. 5th at the Hargrave Military Academy against Delaware, Lehigh, and William & Mary.

Last weekend, the women’s basketball team headed out to Southwest Missouri State for their much-anticipated contest against a national powerhouse in the first round of the WNIT tournament. Tonight, our men’s team duked it out against the top-ranked basketball team in the nation. Analysts, reporters, and coaches will probably scour the forty-minute game tapes of these contests looking to predict our teams’ future performances. But they won’t find what they’re looking for.

The women were handed what could have been a potentially devastating defeat from Southwest Missouri State. As we write this, it remains to be seen whether our men were able to slay the giant. But win or lose these early-season match-ups, our teams’ abilities to succeed throughout this season will be determined not by the final scores of the contests, but by the hours, days, and weeks after the clock hits 00:00.

I heard somewhere, “It does not matter if you fall down as long as you pick up something from the floor while you get up.” Pretty simple stuff. Almost so simple it’s trite. But truer words could not apply to a team coming out of a season-opener against a national powerhouse. Pay close attention to the next few days and weeks. Watch these teams in their early conference match-ups. Watch the senior leaders, and the way these athletes carry themselves on the court and around campus in the upcoming days. Will they take the games in stride and grow into a stronger, more mature team? Davidson is proud to claim these two talented squads of exciting athletes—likely the best of the Southern Conference. But their future seasons are largely dependent...on their psychological reactions to these early-season showdowns. Our games against Southwest Missouri State and Duke were season-openers against non-conference opponents—not SC championship games in late February. It’s quite likely that we’ll return from the Coliseum tonight and have a tally in the loss column for each of our school’s basketball teams. But even if this is the case, it is entirely possible that in a few months we will look back on these contests and their aftermaths, and be proud to claim decisive victories.

An article last week on Dana Casner included an incorrect spelling of her last name. The Davidsonian regrets the error. A re-print of the corrected story is below.

Every summer since 1965, AMIGOS has provided an opportunity to over 19,000 high school and college students to live and serve in Latin America.

Countries Served | Projects Administered | Skills Developed
Mexico | Community Sanitation | Communication
Honduras | Family Health Promotion | Leadership
Costa Rica | Environmental Education | Interpersonal
Dominican Republic | Dental Hygiene | Foreign Language
Ecuador | Home Improvement | Cross-Cultural Sensitivity
Paraguay | Family Gardens | Management
Bolivia
Brazil

Be a volunteer this summer!
Application Deadline: March 15
Scholarships Available

Casner closes fall season on high note
By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Many athletes relish the precious few weeks of off-season they have amidst their busy schedules as student-athletes. But something tells me that senior tennis standout Dana Casner just doesn’t want to stop playing quite yet.

Casner closed her fall season in convincing fashion, reaching the third round of the ITA Southeastern Regional Indoor Tennis Championships at Wake Forest University on Saturday. Ninety women from colleges and universities across the southeast entered competition last weekend. Casner drew the eleventh seed.

The Wildcat senior had also competed in the tournament during her sophomore and junior campaigns, but with only mild success. But this year was different. Casner easily defeated Nena Bonacic from N.C. State in the first round, 7-5, 6-1. After falling behind early in the second round to University of Louisville sophomore Kelly Whitler, Casner bounced back to take the second-round match 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.

Only sixteen players remained as Casner entered third-round action facing Duke Blue Devil Karen Goldstein. Goldstein proved too hot to handle, defeating Casner 6-2, 6-1 on her way to finals competition on Monday. A master of understatement, the modest senior merely remarked, “It was a great tournament for me.” A great tournament that Casner and her teammates hope will carry her through the winter until competition resumes in January.

“I’m ready for the spring,” said Casner, “and the chance to keep on going.”

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) and Duke University offer a field-oriented, science-based undergraduate course in Tropical Ecology, May 30 — June 28, 1999. CREDITS MAY BE TRANSFERRED FROM DUKE UNIVERSITY. For information on the summer course or the semester abroad program, contact OTS: 919 684-5774, e-mail <nao@acpub.duke.edu>, http://www.ots.duke.edu. Summer Course application deadline is February 26, 1999.

...providing leadership in education, research, and the responsible use of natural resources in the tropics.

Amigos de las Américas
For more info contact Jennifer Martin
jmartin@amigoslink.org
5618 Star Lane, Houston, TX 77057
800.231.7796
www.amigoslink.org

...a journey in understanding a world of differences!

Davidson in Cyprus Summer Program
June 6-July 24, 1999

An informational meeting for the Davidson in Cyprus Archaeological Field School will be held on WEDNESDAY, Nov. 18 at 8:00 p.m. in Chambers 322.
- lots of pictures
- applications
- answers to your questions
- refreshments

If you are interested but unable to attend the meeting, please contact Professor Michael Toumazou, Classics Department, x2281 or email (mitoumazou@davidson.edu).