U = a E nae S ‘Cats End Season Strong, Upset Villanova

BY BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After dropping five straight decisions, the women’s lacrosse team looked to end their season on a positive note this past
week. The ‘Cats had been struggling offensively of late, managing only twenty goals in their last three games. On Thursday
afternoon, Senior Day, the Wildcats exploded for a season-high nineteen goals against Duquesne. It was a very exciting contest as
the two teams combined for the most goals scored in a women’s college lacrosse game this year. It was a
wild affair in which neither team’s attack ever let up. In the end, it was Davidson who was left standing
with a 19-18 victory.

On Thursday, Davidson faced a very pesky opponent in the Dukes of Duquesne. While the ‘Cats rarely trailed, they were
never able to run away with the game. The Dukes often seemed prime to take the lead, but the ‘Cats
always managed to answer with a goal. While it was Senior Day at Richardson Field, it was just as much
Amanda Fleck Day. Against Duquesne, Fleck became the all-time points leader in Davidson history. She had her best game of
the season, scoring eight points on five goals and three assists. She entered the game tied with Sarah Hogan (1994-97)
who had 132 points. By the end of the day, she had broken another one of Hogan’s records. With her
third goal of the game, she owned the record for most goals in a career. She ended the day with
103.

The game started off normal enough as both teams were tied at five with ten minutes remaining in the half.
Then the fireworks began as the two teams scored a combined thirteen goals in just over ten minutes. While Duquesne
grabbed a lead at 9-6, the ‘Cats rallied to hold a 12-11 halftime lead. In the second half, the game
took a slower pace. After Duquesne tied it up two minutes into the half, Davidson scored the next three unanswered.
At the 26:11 mark, a wide-open Brooke Wheeler scored the first goal of her collegiate career. Once again, the ten-minute
mark led to a wild finish. With the score tied at sixteen, the Duquesne goalie fouled Fleck. As a result,
she was given a penalty shot on an empty net. Her goal at the 5:50 mark put Davidson up by
one.

Duquesne would not go away as Becky Jenkins scored her third goal of the game at the 3:22 mark. Jenkins
scored on a rebound after Davidson goalie Lisa Benjamin stopped a very tough shot. It appeared Davidson would take the
lead for good when Lauren Kenchington scored with just under two minutes to go. Still, Duquesne’s Jenkins wasn’t done yet
as she scored again. With the score knotted at eighteen, the heroics would be left up to Davidson’s Kara Barker.
Barker, a sophomore midfielder, had quietly been...

See Lacrosse on page 15

Bill Gid @ The Wildcats charge the net in a match against Drexel earlier in the year. The team finished
off its season this past weekend with an upset win over a tough Villanova squad and a loss to Bucknell.

Golfers tie for fourth in SoCon, Lina third in individual scores

By Bratron HOLMES
Sports Editor

The golf team’s expectations going into the Southern Conference Tournament were fair. The results were much better. In five tournaments
this spring, Davidson had faced Southern Conference teams nine times, and only outshot their conference opponent on one of those
nine occasions. That one victory was over the Mountaineers of Appalachian State in the Lonnie D. Small Intercollegiate, the last
tournament before the Conference tournament. In that outing, the team finished 28 strokes ahead of the Mountaineers, but still was
14 strokes behind UNC-Greensboro. Davidson met UNCG four times this spring. In those meetings, the Spartans outshot the Wildcats by
an average of 17 strokes.

The team faced UT-Chattanooga in two tournaments and also met The Citadel and Wofford once each. With the exception of
Appalachian, Davidson did not outplay a Southern Conference squad all spring. Until now.

Eleven teams competed in the Southern Conference Tournament in Spartanburg. Four of them had defeated Davidson earlier in the spring.
Two others — East Tennessee State and Furman — were nationally ranked. The Wildcat squad shot 299 in the first
of the three rounds in the tournament, which placed Davidson in sixth. Predictably, Jason Lina led the way by shooting
71 to finish one under after the first round. The ‘Cats were far from the lead, but had outshot two
of the teams to which they had fallen earlier—The Citadel and UNCG.

Any hopes for a rise in the standings seemed to disappear in the next round as Davidson shot 306 for
the round. The team had the third worst score of the round, outshooting only SoCon cellar-dwellers Western Carolina and VMI.
Three of the five Davidson golfers posted worse scores than they had in the first round. Only one, Austin Ziegler,
improved his score. After shooting a dismal 86 in the first round, Ziegler improved to 76 in the second round,
which was the best score for Davidson in the round.

The outlook was anything but promising as the third and final round began. Frontrunners ETSU, Furman, and Wofford had effectively
clinched the top three spots. UTC, UNCG, and Georgia...Southern were in a close contest for fourth and were all ahead
of Davidson. If they were to finish above seventh, the Wildcat golfers needed to post an incredible third round. So,
that’s just what they did. In a round that was plagued with bad weather conditions, the squad shot 296, the
best score of the day. No other team shot better than 300. UNCG, with 303 on the day, was the
closest team to Davidson. Lina once again led the way, shooting 70 to finish one over for the tournament. Four
of the Davidson golfers improved their scores from the second round, including Ziegler, who was the only Wildcat to improve
his score in each round. Davidson jumped to the front of the race for fourth place. The top three places
were out of reach after the second round. A cynic may have...

See Golf on page 14

UNCG 7, Wildcats 1
Wildcats 7, UNCG 5
UNCG 5, Wildcats 2

Baseball
VMI 11, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 9, VMI 7
VMI 10, Wildcats 4

Golf
Tied for fourth at Southern Conference

Men’s Tennis
Second at Southern Conference

Women’s Tennis
Furman 5, Wildcats 2 in SoCon Tournament semifinals

Women’s Track & Field
Sixth of eight teams at SoCon Tournament

Davidson Crew team is turning heads, p. 15
Rosenberg on, umm... well, just read it yourself, p. 14
Track teams return from SoCon

UNCG and GSU finished

Men’s Tennis Loses in title match; Three ‘Cats Receive SoCon Honors

ANDREW FULFORD
Staff Writer

The Wildcats gave a strong run this weekend at the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament held this weekend at Furman’s Minor
Mickel Tennis Center but came up short in the finals, losing to UT-Chattanooga 4-1. The ‘Cats started off the tournament
with a close 4-3 win against UNC Greensboro in the quarterfinals on Friday. Jon Pastel started off the singles run
with a 5-7, 6-1, 6-3 victory in the #1 seed. Freshman Whit Hansen and junior Scott Briggs also won at
#5 and #6 matches as well. The match was tied at 3-3 after singles going into the doubles matches where
Davidson was able to capture 2 of the 3 to win the point and the overall victory. The match was
sealed when Pastel and Briggs won #2, 8-2, and Tyler Epp and Jeff Tonidandel won the #3 seed, 8-3.

On Saturday the ‘Cats faced regular season champion Furman. After losing the #1 and #2 singles matches, the fourth-seeded Wildcats
swept the remaining four singles matches to defeat the Paladins. Tonidandel won #3 in three sets, 6-3, 2-6, 6-2. Sophomore
Alex Okulski won in straight sets 6-3, 7-5 at the 4 seed. #5 seed Hansen took three sets to beat
his opponent 6-1, 4-6, 6-4. Briggs made short work of his match, winning in straight sets, 7-6, 6-3. The doubles
matches were not played because the ‘Cats had already wrapped up the 4 points needed for the victory.

The Wildcats went into Sunday’s matchup with UTC feeling pretty confident. Unfortunately, the Championship would once again elude the ‘Cats
for the second year in a row. The Mocs clinched the title by winning the doubles point and numbers 2,
3, and 4 seeds. The other singles matches were suspended because UTC had already wrapped up the necessary points. Pastel
finished out his outstanding Davidson career a winner in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4. He and Scott Briggs were the only
team to manage a doubles win, 9-7.

Earlier in the week, the 1998 Southern Conference Men’s Tennis All-Conference Team was announced with three Wildcats receiving honors. Senior
Jon Pastel made the singles team, and senior Ted Kaplan and junior Judson Sutherland were awarded for their superior season
playing #1 doubles. In addition, Pastel also won the Southern Conference Sportsmanship Award. The Wildcats finished the season with an
overall record of 18-9 and a conference mark of 7-2, placing the ‘Cats third behind Furman and Chattanooga. While Davidson
came into the season with high hopes of finishing out the great careers of seniors Pastel, Kaplan, and Tonidandel with
a conference championship, it was just not meant to be. Over their four years of tennis, they amassed a record
of 55-38 and a .587 winning percentage. They taught the team how to win and to have a good time
doing it. The ‘Cats will really miss their leadership next year. Jon, Ted, and Jeff, I speak for all the
fans when I say “thanks.”

The baseball team can clinch a playoff spot with a good performance this weekend against the Bucs. Besides, it’s the
only home sports event this week. Exams haven't started yet.

JASON LINA | Baseball
Baseball vs. ETSU
Senior Tuesday @ UNC-Chapel Hill (6:00)
Saturday @ 12:00
Wednesday @ UNC-Charlotte (6:00)
Sunday @ 1:00
Sunday vs. East Tennessee State (1:00)
Saturday vs. East Tennessee State (Doubleheader) (12:00)

Wildcats 19, Duquesne 18

Men’s Track & Field championships, p. 14

Lacrosse loses two over Easter
Ohio State 16, Wildcats 7
Wildcats 14, Villanova 9
Vanderbilt 18, Wildcats 4
Bucknell 12, Wildcats 8

Within two strokes of Davidson, and without Lina’s string of birdies, the team would have finished seventh. Of Lina’s performance,
teammate Dave Alexander said simply, “He's a stud.”
