By Matt Cuirrorp
Staff Writer

Dr. Rosemarie Tong, the Thatcher Professor of Medical Humanities, will be leaving Davidson for UNCC next semester. She has spent
ten years on the other side of Concord Road in a small office on the first floor of Preyer Building.
Her office last year was riddled with journals of the American Medical Association (JAMA), texts on abortion and euthanasia, students’
papers, and reams of photocopied articles on the latest medical policy. Tong’s office now lays bare. Only a few scant
copies of her books and student papers scatter the empty room in preparation for her departure. The occupancy of that
office in Preyer will run out Jan. 1, 1999, when Tong embarks to “bridge the gap between theory and practice
and between the journal (JAMA) and public policy,” as she said.

Tong began to form the bridge at Williams College as a professor of philosophy 20 years ago. Having spent ten
years at Williams, Tong left Massachusetts and traveled to North Carolina where she has taught since 1988. Now, she is
moving from Davidson and the Medical Humanities program she helped create to 15 minutes down the road at the University
of North Carolina at Charlotte. Having reached “the age when I have one more career move left,” Tong has accepted
the position of Distinguished Professor in Health Care Ethics and an associate in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics
at UNCC. The position enables Tong to realize her ambitions of “bringing and keeping ethical dimensions at the center of
medical practice.”

UNCC had been contemplating offering the position for some time in the past, but the money for the professorship did
not materialize. Also, Tong never felt quite ready to leave Davidson because she had “such a balance between security and
stability.” The Mecklenburg Medical Society, spurred by Dr. K.D. Weeks, a Davidson graduate from Presbyterian Hospital, and Dr. George Barrett,
endowed UNCC with half of the professorship money, which was matched by the state. Barrett and Weeks inspired the local
group of physicians to finalize the drive for a Health Care Ethics and Policy program that is the first in
the country and which has aims to adjust health care in North Carolina and possibly farther.

Tong has long been impressed with Charlotte’s “exceptionally ethically attuned community,” and she is even more so now that they
have provided her with a chance to be a part of the impetus to drive UNCC into the realm of
great universities. UNCC is experiencing a tremendous growth phase along with the rest of the state university system. With this
growth comes a more diverse academic community, and this community gives Tong the opportunity to “break into the public arena.”
Tong asked herself when considering the position, “Why leave something so meaningful and comfortable for risk and challenge after so
many great challenges in the Medical Humanities program?” Tong quickly responded to her own question as she thought aloud, “Because
there’s a whole new world of risk and adventure, question marks, and building” that awaits.

Tong never wavered that it is a monumental mental and emotional challenge to leave Davidson, her “home sweet home,” but
added that the “challenge bug drove me to it.” She has the freedom to mediate the challenges; she has the
“fluidity” to wander among her responsibilities at UNCC. She likened her daily academic activities to “grazing” among the Philosophy department,
the Medical Humanities program, and the Policy and Health Care Professional department. Her immediate responsibilities in the Health Care Administration
program include team teaching with Bennett Watters, an M.D. in Public Health at Carolinas Medical Center. Watters was a Medical
Humanities major at Davidson in the early years of its inception under Tong. Tong hand-picked Watters to team teach in
the program, and she saw this as a moment to reacquaint herself with an old visitor to the Preyer office
she leaves in January. It is this type of opportunity to work with new people and especially those in the
professional field that Tong awaits with anticipation.

Tong will also be allowed to move into responsibilities in the School of Nursing, a new doctorate program in Biomedicine,
and a Master’s program in Alternative Care and Integrative Medicine. UNCC will allow Tong to be “responsive to academic constituencies”
at the university. Additional, more solidified constituencies such as the faculty in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics include
working with Dr. John Lincord. With Lincord, Tong will teach in fields that integrate all professions in a study of
ethics in professional practices. She will address public policy, business, and professionalism in an inter-business fashion. Tong will continue to
administer to the professionals who are still seeking an education in an institutional and organizational ethics class. The class hopes
to teach these students who encounter ethics in practice at work that “unless policies are ethical, the individual must carry
the burden.” The Mecklenburg Medical Society, again funding the program in part with matching funds from the State Department of
Education, plans to have several programs and conferences which will feature or at least involve Tong as a resource in
ethics. For Tong, she adds that this aspect is “scary because every day someone raises new questions.” These new questions
will be coming from those whom Tong described as “older, bloodied, and bruised,” a crowd much different than Davidson students.

Despite all these new and immense opportunities in teaching in addition to resources for her research, Tong admits that it
was a difficult situation to leave something which had been so comfortable for her. This opportunity allowed her to meet
challenges yet not stray too far from her network of friends and colleagues here. Tong would not have asked Dr.
Jeremiah Putnam, her husband and director of Pre-Medicine at Davidson, to leave something for which he “has so much devotion.”
With the UNCC opportunity and with Dr. Lance Stell in firmly as director of the Medical Humanities program, things fell
into place. Although she will only be down the interstate a few miles, she thanked Davidson students, the “kind of
student she wishes she had been,” for giving her hope that “there is a future for us as a society.”
The inherent “goodness” of Davidson students as well as their “valued well-roundedness” amazed her in retrospect as she hailed Davidson
as a place where there is a “carnivorous feeding off of human energy in teaching.” Nonetheless, with the challenge bug
nipping at her heel, Tong will close the door to her office in Preyer and, with new business card in
hand, leave ten years of teaching at Davidson. The challenge that awaits Tong at UNCC is indeed imposing, but the
position also allows her the freedom to mediate the challenges.

Cornwell and Reynolds speak to students
By Carri Arthur
News Editor

On Friday, Oct. 23, Davidson graduates Patricia Cornwell ’79 and Sheri Reynolds ’89 discussed writing in a presentation moderated by
Dr. Elizabeth Mills of the English Department. TheirThe meeting was part of the Co-education Celebration, and the program was divided
into three parts: their introduction through Mills’s personal questions, the discussion with Mills’s mediation, and a period for the audience’s
questions.

In her introduction of the two writers, Mills asked them revealing personal questions. Responding to a question about her childhood,
Cornwell said, “I think honestly in my case, I didn’t like the world I lived in, so I created my
own.” Creativity and stories became Cornwell's escape. Reynolds characterized herself as “a broody kid” who “lied a lot.” She often
told stories because “I wanted experience to match my emotions.” Cornwell continued on to say that she wrote fiction and
poetry as a child, but she became a journalist after leaving Davidson since it was “the only job I could
get.”

From working at The Charlotte Observer, Cornwell explained that she received a nonfiction approach to research, which she combines with
her fiction creativity. Reynolds also wrote “tormented poetry” as a child and adolescent. Although she “always wrote,” Reynolds did not
“write fiction seriously” until Professor of English Tony Abbott’s creative writing class. In fact, Reynolds had originally planned to become
a doctor. Describing her “Davidson experience,” Cornwell said, “Davidson challenged me.” Her study of literature helped her to “start seeing
the creative process of authors. That was really an awakening for me.” Reynolds added that with the knowledge of literature,
“every single piece lights up in a new way.” In her own writing, Reynolds said, “I’m telling more about myself
through my writing than I would ever tell a stranger.” Reynolds also remarked that her writing awards at Davidson allowed
her to meet the judges, who were famous writers.

After the introduction, both writers read from one of their first books. Cornwell read a section from “Post Mortem,” which
was published in 1990 after being rejected by seven publishing houses. About finding her voice in the novel, Cornwell called
it “a long journey” which she began in 1984 with an interview of a medical examiner and then working at
a morgue. Cornwell first “felt very self-conscious” using the first person because “I had to learn what it feels like
to be her [her main character].” Although her main character is “not me,” Cornwell sees her as a “voice” who
says what Cornwell “always wanted to say,” and Cornwell said, “I work for her.” “Post Mortem” addresses the abuse of
power, which is the “biggest issue” for Cornwell.

Reynolds then read from her first book, "Bitterroot Landing," which she wrote for a graduate class at Virginia Commonwealth University.
In this class, seven people were taught by a novelist who instructed them to write a novel in two semesters.
Reynolds said that "Bitterroot Landing" was “so important for me to write,” but that in her writing process, “the minute
I know what I mean to do, it’s gone for me.” About her voice in the novel, Reynolds described it
as a “combination of her voice and what I thought I was supposed to do.” Still, the main character's “search
is mine,” and Reynolds said, “I’m in every one of these characters.” For Reynolds, the major theme is worship and
what is worthy of being worshipped. Cornwell responded to Reynolds’ description of her writing process: “The story tells itself... I
don’t have index cards, an outline.” She likened it to “being possessed.” For Cornwell, writing is “a relationship... you have
to be spontaneous” because “it’s a process you don’t quite understand.” Although Cornwell exercises control through her research and knowing
her characters, she lets her characters “tell the story and do it.”

Both Reynolds and Cornwell responded to the question of being a “woman writer.” Reynolds said, “I’m happy being a woman,
and I wouldn’t choose to be a man,” but her ideal would be to write what’s “appealing to people.” Although
Reynolds relinquishes control in her writing to the story and her characters, she refuses “to write a book that diminishes
women.” Cornwell also answered: “(Writing) is not a gender trade.” She said, “I don’t like to be anything” because “to
start putting qualifiers in front of something diminishes it.” She already feels that “stereotypes are everywhere. I don’t want to
diminish any group of people.” Cornwell summarized, “You don’t hear people referring to men as male writers. Gender shouldn’t be
an issue unless you want to make it one.”

Reynolds and Cornwell then read from their most recent work. Reading from "A Gracious Plenty," Reynolds explained, “It deals with
something that I deal with a lot — how one thing can be two things at the same time.” Cornwell
then read from "Southern Cross," which will be out in January. After they finished reading, Mills opened up the floor
to the audience questions. Asked to give advice to young writers, Reynolds replied, “Read everything, (and) learn as much as
you can.” Although Reynolds jokingly discouraged people away from writing because “it’s exhausting soul work,” she said, “If you decide
you're going to do it, embrace it and find teachers everywhere.” Cornwell added, “Write” since “you can’t get any better
if you don’t write.” For Cornwell, “You have to take a risk. You just have to do it. You can’t
plan it or go to school for it.” Reynolds continued, “You need to live your life to have the things
you want to say,” and Cornwell echoed her sentiments: “Go do something where you study people because you can’t have
good writing without good characters.” Cornwell also told young writers, “You can create the experiences yourself.” Still, Reynolds warned about
the sacrifices of success: “It’s a business. There's a big difference between being a writer and living a writer’s life
after publication.”

Reynolds and Cornwell then described their own methods. For Reynolds, she writes in “a concentrated period, really fast, really fiercely”
without rituals. She said, “When I write, I am only a writer, (and) I feel at the mercy of something
bigger than me.” Cornwell’s experience matches that of Reynolds: “You are taken over. You are living outside of yourself at
that time.” Cornwell’s characters exercise some control over her writing: “It’s like (the characters) wake you up, like they’re children
or something.” Still, both authors profess their love of their work. Reynolds said, “It’s a blessing to be able to
do the thing you love.” Reynolds’ writing even serves as her “therapy.” Cornwell also feels that “there is nothing in
the world I'd rather do. If you’re a writer, it’s not what you do. It’s what you are.”

Both writers came back to Davidson for the 25th anniversary of Coeducation. Reynolds will be teaching at Davidson next semester.
