8 — THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1998

Journey to the girlfriend: Cort’s big adventure

Hello again, it is Cort Heroy, the not-quite-as-great-as-Bob Saget, here to waste just a little more of your life which could probably be better spent feeding starving tree sloths in western Afghanistan. Well, I don’t know how many of you read my first column, and if you didn’t, shame on you, but I took some of my own advice and went up to see my girlfriend. Now, I know what you’re all asking yourselves right now, “Doesn’t he EVER shut up about her?” The answer to that is no, but that is not the reason that I am writing this.

I decided to sell my gall bladder and buy a ticket for a Greyhound bus leaving at an ungodly early hour. As wonderful as the idea of being able to get somewhere when you don’t have a car is, I am here to warn you of some pending dangers of riding that big bus. My first word of warning is don’t attempt to pay for your ticket with a check. When I got to the ticket window I told Cletus the ticket stud where I wanted to go. He told me that it would cost me my gall bladder as well as my firstborn child. I wrote him a check for the ticket, my first big mistake. He took the check and my license and went back to the little check thingy to verify it. Well, apparently Cletus was unaware that a state outside of North Carolina existed because he looked at my Virginia driver’s license as if it were Monopoly money. Cletus was forced to then call up the main branch to find out where Virginia was and then to find out the code for the check thingy. Cletus now punched in the appropriate numbers and ran the check through again. However, it still would not accept it because I apparently do my banking at the Bank of Octogenarian Mutant Lepers, which their system wouldn’t recognize. I was then forced to leave the building, and I am not making this up, and ask a homeless guy where the nearest ATM was so that I could withdraw money from my checking account. When I returned later with cash, Cletus had apparently been called back to the set of “Deliverance,” and I was able to buy my ticket.

The next obstacle I encountered was a bus driver who thought he was Jerry Seinfeld. Now don’t get me wrong here, I do have a decent sense of humor, but at eight in the morning, and after dealing with Cletus the wonder inbred, I was in no mood to hear jokes. As the bus departs, Chuck the bus driver comes on the intercom to announce that this bus would be arriving in Miami at eight that night. This, of course, freaked me out like you wouldn’t believe. However, after a few people suffered heart attacks, he finally broke out into a laugh that would annoy even Fran Drescher and told us that the bus actually was heading north. I just don’t need that kind of stress early in the morning. He is definitely off my Christmas card list.

Perhaps I should have mentioned this earlier, but the biggest drawback to riding the bus is the fact that the bus gets you to your destination about as fast as a Conestoga wagon being pulled by a constipated Estelle Getty (the old woman from “The Golden Girls”). The drive to Harrisonburg takes about four and a half hours by car, but by Greyhound it takes, and once again I am not kidding, ten hours! There are two reasons for this: first, the bus must stop at every bus stop on the route. Second, I think that a prerequisite to taking Greyhound is that you must smoke at least three cartons of cigarettes a day. The bus can only go so far before the passengers begin to have a mass nic-fit and shake violently. The bus then becomes unstable and must be pulled over so that a ten-minute smoke break can ensue. They might as well allow smoking on the bus, because when the people return from smoking their cancer sticks they bring so much smoke back with them that Sitting Bull thinks a message is being sent. Now you may be asking, how can I come from Virginia, the leading tobacco-producing state, a state whose motto is, “Virginia: Slowly killing America since 1609,” and dislike tobacco? It’s simple really, Joe Camel used to look like Cameron Diaz. I often wonder how Thomas Rolfe came up with the idea for tobacco. I don’t know about you, but I have never been walking around in the woods one day and upon seeing an odd-looking weed, suddenly decide to crush it, set it on fire in a pipe and breathe the fumes. Furthermore, it would never occur to me to ground it into a fine powder and ram it up my nose. Although, if the top C.E.O.s at Phillip Morris tell me that there is nothing wrong with cigarettes then it has to be true.

The final obstacle on this “Jason and the Argonauts”-esque adventure was my layover at a bus stop in Wytheville, Virginia. Understand that this “bus stop” was, in actuality, a tin-roofed cardboard shanty surrounded by beer cans and cigarette butts. Also, this “bus stop” was conveniently located between a prison, a mental hospital, a truck stop, and a warehouse for highly volatile liquids. Needless to say, there were some pretty shady characters around the place. So shady, in fact, that even Kato Kaelin would turn down an offer for a free night’srest there. I was terrified that some big burly guy wearing a “Guns don’t kill people, I kill people” t-shirt, was going to come up to me and say, “Hey college boy, you’re my little puppy now!” I was also there at midnight, which didn’t help any. This account of my travels may make it sound as if I am telling you to not take a bus to go see your loved one. This is hardly the case. Believe me, the look on the face of your significant other as you see them for the first time in a month makes the trip well worth it. So once again I implore you, pawn your spleen, mortgage your house, and take that bus to see your loved one. The time spent with them makes the trip well worth it.

I know you were all hoping that the last paragraph was going to end the column, but alas, I find I have some unfinished business from my last column. I have received inquiries as to what I was smoking while making the “Tim the Professor” joke. The “Tim the Professor” joke comes from one of the best movies of all time, “Monty Python and the Holy Grail.” In the movie, Arthur and his Knights encounter a man who is randomly blowing up mountains. He eventually appears in front of Arthur and says, “I am an enchanter, but there are those who call me Tim.” This line just cracks me up because all of the enchanters and wizards that I know have fun names like Merlin and Xanadu. I hope that this clears up any confusion you might have had.

Well, that’s it folks, you can now go about the rest of your day knowing that you have wasted a good five minutes reading my column. I’m Cort Heroy, and I thank you for your support (perhaps next week I'll discuss whatever happened to Bartles and James). Take it easy folks, and I'll see y’all ‘round.

‘Saving Private Ryan’ serves as a wake-up call

When teenagers visit grandparents or see older men crossing the street they probably think little of what those men were doing fifty years ago. Quite possibly the men were dealing with having to kill someone their own age or lying next to a sobbing friend, praying the enemy wouldn’t hear. As America’s youth attends the new movie, Saving Private Ryan, we can compare these events to our own daily activities and the issues we deal with every day. Scary tests and alcohol-driven nights? Fears over unplugged alarms? Maybe Saving Private Ryan will serve as the wake-up call we really need.

Saving Private Ryan centers around a mission during World War II. A woman receives word that three of her sons have been killed in action and that her remaining son (Private Ryan) is at the front. The U.S. government selects eight men to enter the war zone of Normandy, find Private Ryan, and bring him back safely. Throughout the movie, as the men question risking their lives to rescue one man, they learn about duty and compassion. They realize that the mission is bigger than they are and that maybe one man is worth saving if he is a good person. Essentially, the real men these characters represent risked and lost their lives for all of us. It is up to us to make their sacrifices worthwhile.

Could the students at Davidson be as brave as those men? If we had to head off to war tomorrow, could we make the giant leap into thinking that the future is worth our deaths? This movie should elicit such questions from us. It should also send us running to grandparents and older relatives to learn from the courageous men who lived and fought during such a vicious war. Every teen should attend this movie and hopefully emerge from the theater crying. One of the most graphic pictures ever made, Saving Private Ryan realistically puts the viewer in the midst of constant nausea, crippled limbs, and heartbreaking moments. But this film doesn’t sacrifice character development and moral dilemmas in order to solely shock the audience with gore. It also raises the issue of the value of violence in films in contrast to the incessant hacking and splattering that permeates today’s movies and video games.

The men who fought at Normandy and the Battle of the Bulge had to grow up quickly. The teenagers had come out of the Depression and considered money and life precious. Today’s teens continuously complain about how hard and unfair life is. It’s sad that we are far removed from the world they felt was so worth saving. There was a time when men and women made choices dealing with the larger themes of war and love. They didn’t question these concepts, but just did what they had to do. Instead, today we self-indulgently dissect every motive and statement. We still have time to change the perceptions people have of our generation. We can prove to be worthy successors to those who fought in World War II. We can show that rampant drinking, fast cars, and shortcuts aren’t all we're about. This can be accomplished through community service, hard work, and respect that extends to not only the WWII generation but to the future ones as well.

The staggering box office receipts demonstrate that a tremendous number of Americans are attending the film. Is this reaction to Saving Private Ryan an indication that we are interested in saving ourselves? We can only hope.