THE DAVIDSONIAN  
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1998  

Summit Coffee opens on Main Street  
SHERRY LEVERETT  
Staff Writer  

As students hike across campus on their daily voyage to the post office, they may soon notice a new coffee establishment on the block. Walk on in and get your quick caffeine fix or admire the extensive snowski collection. Either way, Craig and Vicki Blaney, the owners of Summit Coffee House, would “love to have you.”  

Located on the corner of Main Street, across from Ben and Jerry’s, the Blaneys plan on keeping the place open for studying, conversing, pondering, or drinking, from six in the morning ‘til 10 at night from Sunday through Thursday, six ‘til 11 on Friday, and seven ‘til 11 on Saturday. In addition to an array of gourmet coffees, Summit will offer teas, baked goods, iced coffee drinks, and environmentally friendly sanctuary blend coffees.  

Blaney reports that they intend on maintaining a “clean, comfortable, customer-oriented community” with chairs and tables outside and possibly an upstairs study arena for students. The planned opening for Summit Coffee is mid-September as the final details begin to take shape. Although they are in the final stages of hiring their starting staff, the Blaneys are always looking for quality people to work and add to the friendly environment.  

Not only is this a possible source of income for Davidson students, but a good opportunity to musically or poetically shine among your peers. Summit is interested in local bands, aspiring soloists, and the lyrically inclined. The Blaneys and their manager Karen Privett intend on making Davidson students and faculty a large part of their coffee coalition and want to hear suggestions and ideas.  

In the spirit of Davidson township, head on over to Summit Coffee House in two weeks; in the spirit of Davidson College, make your first drink the “Wildcat Blend”.  

Sara Cromwell @ Summit Coffee, a new establishment on Main Street, will take the place of the now-defunct Cosmic Coffee in providing students with their daily doses of caffeine.  

Davidson drops to 11th in U.S. News rankings  
By CARRIE ARTHUR  
Staff Writer  

This year, Davidson tied for number eleven with Grinnell, Smith, and Washington & Lee in the U.S. News & World Report rankings for national liberal arts colleges. Amherst, Swarthmore, and Williams placed one, two, and three respectively.  

Each September, U.S. News & World Report releases its ratings of accredited colleges and universities that are not specialty schools and that have an enrollment greater than 250 students. These rankings are intended to help high school juniors and seniors choose the right school, but as even U.S. News & World Report admits, these numbers do not tell all there is to know.  

In the ranking process, U.S. News first classifies each school as either a national university, national liberal arts college, regional university, or regional liberal arts college. The regional schools are categorized by North, South, Midwest, and West. Then U.S. News collects data from the past year about different categories for each school and compares the composite scores of schools in each category.  

The categories for national liberal arts colleges this year are academic reputation, graduation retention, faculty resources, financial resources, graduation rate, and alumni giving rate. These factors are then broken down into subfactors, and each factor is given a different weight which changes annually.  

To be considered a national liberal arts college like Davidson, Linda Lefauvre, Davidson’s Director of Institutional Research, said that the school must offer “40 percent of its degrees in traditional liberal arts disciplines” and meet U.S. News’s definition of “highly selective.” Lefauvre pointed out that schools within Davidson’s classification “may not be as similar to Davidson as we would like. Institutions within Davidson’s classification that have law schools and other graduate programs have dissimilar capabilities, such as financial resources.”  

Lefauvre is skeptical about the rankings because “every year, U.S. News changes its methodology.” Lefauvre said, “This year, they changed the way they scored academic reputation. This year, it’s on a five-point scale; last year it was a four-point scale; and the year before, it was on an array that they gave based on a 100.”  

As U.S. News changes “the scale, the weight, and the factors from year to year,” Lefauvre feels, “it’s really not a valid comparison from one year to another.” In fact, Lefauvre said, “I don’t think that you should look at it (Davidson’s fall from eight to eleven) as a drop.” Because U.S. News began rounding scores two years ago, many schools are tied, and the numbers after ties are skipped. Lefauvre believes, “you can’t even really call it a ranking anymore.”  

Viewing the rankings as subjective, Lefauvre feels that “it’s a summary measure that I don’t think warrants summarization.” Lefauvre added, “What’s happening at other colleges on that list can affect where Davidson falls even if Davidson hasn’t done anything different because of the way those scores are calculated.” For example, the freshmen retention rate...has held constant at 96 percent for the past four years, but during this time period, Davidson’s ranking for that factor has increased from fifth to second. Therefore, Lefauvre said, “it would be very difficult to pinpoint anything that made us move up or down in ranking.” Despite her reservations, Lefauvre does feel that the rankings can be useful: “I think that you can get some good information from U.S. News if you look at things specifically for your institution and things that matter to you, not some little number that supposedly defines that institution.” Lefauvre stressed, “I don’t think that there’s anything that solely describes an institution more than the quality of students that it attracts, retains, and graduates.” She continued, “In every area that U.S. News thinks is important, Davidson stands out in respect to its students.” Davidson went up from sixth to fifth for student selectivity this year, its graduation retention rate is ninth, and its graduation rate is six percent higher than what U.S. News would expect. As for the effect of Davidson’s ranking, Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable said that “there appears to be a correlation between the size of our applicant pool and our movement within the rank of top twenty institutions in the country,” but “we’ve had strong applicant pools even in years when our rank has been lower than before.” Cable emphasized that she cannot make any projections about this year’s applicant pool yet. Anne Shields, Director of Career Services, said that the ranking will have “no adverse effect whatsoever” on the Class of '99’s ability to find jobs. Matt Gant ‘92, Andersen Consulting Executive and Recruiting Campus Team Manager, said, “nationally, Davidson College is recognized by Andersen Consulting as a key source for our campus recruiting efforts. A slight drop in a national ranking would never be a hiring issue for any seniors entering a career search. Furthermore, the Davidson graduates working for Andersen Consulting in the Charlotte Office have proven the value of a strong liberal arts education. With the strong job marketplace, this year’s seniors will certainly realize the value of a Davidson degree in the workforce.”

Ross moves from economics to administration
Davidson professor appointed interim Dean of Faculty
By ROSHAN PAUL
Staff Writer

The Davidson College webpage currently posts the following announcement: “Davidson College is currently inviting nominations and applications for the position of Vice President for Academic Affairs (VPAA) and Dean of the Faculty.” So who do we have until then? Dean Clark Ross currently fills this position, left vacant after Robert Williams retired from the position last June. As VPAA, Ross oversees the library, the registrar, the Dean Rusk program, the language lab, and the study abroad program, to name just a few. He is also involved in creating the budget for academic affairs for the fiscal year. As Dean of Faculty, he oversees the recruitment of new faculty, evaluation of current faculty, and is involved with defining the curriculum of courses. Ross is very involved with the international students at Davidson. He has developed a personal relationship with the program and the students. For the last three years, Ross has been presenting the Honor Code to international students during pre-orientation. While being very comfortable with the statement of purpose and the ideals of Davidson College, Dean Ross would like this to be “a year where progress continues and doesn’t recede” and would like to see a strengthening of the academic program and the recruitment of excellent faculty. He is also hoping to increase minority representation in the faculty.

When Clark Ross applied for a position on the Davidson faculty in 1979, Professor Charles Ratcliffe was the head of the Economics department. Commenting on his initial impression of Ross, Ratcliffe said, “I was impressed with him the first moment he walked through that door.” Since then, Ross has been teaching Economics at Davidson, while gaining the respect of both his peers and his students. Ross grew up in Massachusetts, professing a deep admiration for statesman John F. Kennedy. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania as an Economics major and refined his skills at Boston University. He then taught for a year at the College of William and Mary. Next, Ross went to West Africa, where he worked for the University of Michigan. The trail then led to Davidson College, North Carolina, where Ross has been for the last 19 years. Providing a few words of wisdom for his student body, Ross said, “Place academic achievement first. Choose a few extra-curricular activities and do them well.” He also advises all students to take advantage of the myriad of opportunities that Davidson College offers, especially the study abroad program. Ross wishes to thank the entire faculty and student body for being as patient and cooperative with him as they have been.