14 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

Women's hoops narrowly beats ETSU, crushes UTC (again)

By ALISON KALET
Staff Writer

With approximately a month left in its season, the Lady Wildcat Basketball team is definitely playing at its peak. Last Thursday, the women’s basketball team took on the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. The team cruised to an astounding 84-45 victory. The Wildcats opened the game with a resounding 22-0 run and never looked back.

Among the standouts for the Wildcats were Jen O’Brien, who scored 17 points with seven steals and seven assists, and Kerry Brown and Jessica Montrella, who added 12 and 10 points respectively. All three women shot better than 50 percent from the field. The Wildcats also played an excellent defensive game holding UTC’s leading scorer to only five points, while earning 23 points from steals alone. Undoubtedly, this overwhelming victory only added to the Lady Wildcats' growing confidence.

The Wildcats have been playing excellent basketball of late and are in no way hitting a mid-season slump. At this point, the Wildcats hold a 14-7 overall record. More importantly, at 9-3, they are tied with Furman for second place in the Southern Conference, with Georgia Southern having only a slightly better record.

Three days prior to last Thursday’s UTC win, the Women’s Basketball team defeated Eastern Tennessee State University in an exciting overtime game. The key to the 83-77 victory was a total team effort. Four Wildcat players scored in double figures. Jessica Montrella had 20 points to add to eight rebounds, three blocks, and four assists, Jennie Vanlerberghe had 16 points and seven rebounds, Kerry Brown contributed 14 points and an amazing 15 boards, while Jen O’Brien added 11 points, 10 rebounds, and nine assists, breaking the Davidson single-season assist record. Other standouts for the Wildcats included Katy Kamp, senior Danielle Mall, and senior Jennifer Sanborn who had nine, seven, and six points respectively. Because of excellent teamwork, the Wildcats were able to nullify the 17-point performance of ETSU freshman Leslie Buleson.

Looking ahead, the Wildcats have 12 more regular season games. Undoubtedly, all the remaining games are key for the team, yet it is difficult not to look ahead to Feb. 16, when Furman comes to Davidson. However, the Lady Wildcats need to stay focused on this week’s schedule, in which they host Western Carolina (2-10) on Tuesday, and play UNCG (7-4) on Saturday. Both teams are conference opponents and are therefore crucial games.

On an individual note, point guard Jen O’Brien is a candidate for All-American recognition. Only a sophomore, O’Brien is on her way to breaking numerous conference and school records. She is currently second all-time at Davidson in career assists and steals, and leads the team in three-pointers, assists, and steals. Already this season, she is the conference leader in steals, assists, and three-point field goals. O’Brien also holds numerous NCAA distinctions, such as being tenth in assists and 13th in three-point percentage. O’Brien has also scored in double figures in 17 of the team’s 20 games. O’Brien’s efforts will hopefully lead to the accomplishment of the ultimate goal of winning the conference and advancing to the NCAA tournament.

Baseball falls to Duke in opener

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

In the baseball team’s inaugural game, the Wildcats fell to a solid Duke squad by a score of 8-3. The loss could not be attributed to any specific aspect of the team’s performance. Neither the team’s pitching, hitting, or fielding was noticeably bad. It was apparent that the Wildcats were simply outmatched by their ACC opponent. The Wildcats had six hits to the Blue Devils' thirteen, three errors to their two, were even in stolen bases, and left about the same percentage of their runners on base (four to Duke’s twelve).

Starting pitcher Eric Bowers set a career high with eight strikeouts in five innings, while Duke’s starter and closer had the same number in all nine. The Wildcats did play well, but Duke managed to narrowly outshine them in most aspects.

In addition to his eight strikeouts, Bowers gave up five hits and three earned runs. He was relieved by rookie Wes Self, who gave up seven hits and four earned runs in his collegiate debut. In the ninth with two outs and runners on first and third, the Wildcats brought in another rookie, Ryan Stroker. Stroker gave up an RBI single, credited to Self, before grounding out the final batter.

The top performer for the Wildcats was sophomore shortstop Ben Brown. Brown was 3-4 on the day, with one run, one RBI, and a triple. The triple came in the eighth when Brown launched the ball to the fence in dead center. He then scored on the play when the center-fielder botched the throw. Brown’s three hits comprised half of the team’s total for the day. Davidson’s remaining runs were scored by sophomore second-baseman Drew Williams and senior center-fielder Luke Goodwin. Williams’ run came in the fifth after he singled to center with two outs. He then advanced to second on a wild pitch and scored on an RBI single by Brown. In the sixth, Goodwin walked and also advanced on a wild pitch. The Blue Devils nearly escaped the inning unharmed when Mike DeSimone struck out and Marshall Tyler grounded out. However, Goodwin advanced to third on the ground out and then went home on a balk.

One surprising aspect of this year’s team is its youth. The Wildcats started three juniors (Tyler, LF Brian Joyce, C Kurt Davis), four sophomores (Brown, Williams, Bowers, 1B Stewart Sloan), and one freshman (RF Jeremiah Parvin). Both relieving pitchers were freshmen. Another freshman, Tom “Gimp” McGintee, was a potential starter in the outfield until a 90-mph DeSimone fastball struck his shin in batting practice and took him out of the line-up.

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

In three dual meets this Saturday, the Wildcat wrestlers defeated Anderson College as well as Norfolk State, but fell to...UNC-Greensboro in their second Southern Conference meet. These two wins raised the team’s overall record to 8-5-1, but the loss to UNCG left the Wildcats 0-2 against Southern Conference opponents. The first match of the day was against Anderson, whom the ‘Cats had already faced twice this season. The first match ended in a tie, but that has been avenged by two consecutive wins. Dan Carman won his match by decision with a score of 11-5, and Andy Sterling won his match by default. Ian Kaplan, Ronald Williams, and Ben Wall each won by forfeit. The highlight of the match was a pin by Gray Broughton, which gave the ‘Cats six points for a final of 33-15. The second match of the day was against Southern Conference opponent UNC-Greensboro. Thought by some to be the best team in the conference, UNCG easily defeated Davidson. 

Wrestlers win two but lose conference match to UNCG. The Wildcats’ two victories in the match were by Kaplan, with a 5-3 decision, and Wall, with a 6-2 decision. These were still very close matches for Davidson’s winningest wrestlers this season. The wrestlers’ tough conference schedule continues with dual meets against Appalachian State, the Citadel, and UT-Chattanooga in addition to the Southern Conference Tournament in Greensboro. The final match of the day saw the Wildcats avenge a previous loss to Norfolk State. The two teams’ earlier meeting was extremely close for most of the match, but Norfolk State rallied to win the last three weight classes and claim a four-point victory. This meeting was the opposite of the previous one. At the end of six classes, Davidson was losing 15-6, having won six points by a forfeit at 142. The Wildcats proceeded to sweep the rest of the match. The first of these wins was a 16-5 major decision by Kaplan, which added four points to the ‘Cats total. Kaplan handily defeated his opponent even though he had moved up two weight classes from his usual 150 slot. The next match was the 177 class, in which Bo Bickerstaff defeated his opponent by a score of 5-1. This brought the score of the match to 16-13 in favor of Norfolk State. The Wildcats took a 19-16 lead with a forfeit in the 190 class and held on for the rest of the match. The final match of the day was the heavyweight class, in which Ben Wall quickly defeated his overmatched opponent by pin, winning eight of ten classes and three by pin.

Tennis loses openers

BY DOUGLAS CUTTING
Sports Editor

In the season opener, the Wildcats traveled to Atlanta, Georgia where they competed in meets against Georgia Tech and Tulane on Friday and Saturday, respectively. The women faced a tough Georgia Tech squad and a comparable Tulane team on the following day. Overmatched by both opponents, the women lost each match by a score of 8-1. The highlight of the weekend was the performance of rookie phenom Kristin Koenig, who won matches at the #2 singles position against Tulane and Georgia Tech. The strong #1 doubles team of Koenig and Dana Casner also defeated their Georgia Tech opponents by a score of 9-8. On Saturday, Casner lost a gut-wrenching match in the #1 singles spot against Tulane after taking her opponent to three sets. Amber Bradford, playing #3, lost a close match as well. Claire Cheatwood, at the #5 doubles spot, followed Casner’s lead with a three-set barn-burner that unfortunately saw Tulane finish victorious. Casner played another close match against the Georgia Tech #1 player on Friday, but she was not able to down the ACC opponent. The women’s tennis team has its next outing this Saturday and Sunday at home in the Davidson Doubles Tournament prior to an away match against Virginia Tech.

Runners post solid times at VMI

BY DOUGLAS CUTTING
Sports Editor

Sparked by a men’s 4x400 finish that ranked among the ten best ever at Davidson, as well as numerous strong finishes on the women’s squad, the Wildcats returned upbeat from a weekend track meet at VMI. The Wildcats are extremely pleased with the effort so far this season. The first three weeks have provided some tough meets in which the teams have “been competitive and gone out really hard,” said Coach Andrew.

The men’s 4x400 team of Ken Howard, Ade Artis, Keith Chapman, and Ikenna Myers posted a time of 3:36.3. In the 3000 m, Josh Cookson ran a 9:22.1, and Burchett a 9:19.4, followed closely by Tim O’Keefe and Scott Hutchins. In the 55 m dash, Ikenna Myers shined with a 6.81, which was one of the top ten Davidson indoor times. Steve Hsieh followed with a 6.91, and Matt Brown with a 6.93. The distance medley relay team of Keith Gordon, Karim Lawrence, Keith Chapman, and Thomas McElveen ran an 11:21.00. Milers Steve Johnston and Matt Hurley finished with times of 4:57.4 and 5:10.1 respectively. In the 400 m, Ken Howard ran a 53.4 and Mike Albert a 56.1. McElveen’s 2:07.3 was the top 800 m time. Ikenna Myers’s speed emerged once again in the 200 m with another Davidson top ten time of 23.7, followed by Hsieh and Matt Brown. Jamilah Sawyer finished 7th in a tough women’s 55 m hurdles field with a time of 8.80. Kate Feldmeyer ran a 2:31 to finish 10th out of around 50 runners in the 800 m, followed by Clare Frey in 17th position. Suzy Burr and Allie Curran finished 10th and 11th out of a large field in the 3000 m. Jill Neumayer finished 10th in the mile run with a time of 5:33. Lisa Green, who was abroad in the fall and did not practice with the team, exceeded all expectations by finishing 17th in the mile. In addition, Michelle Borders ran a strong 200 m.