THE DAVIDSONIAN — ARTS & LIVING
TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1998

Madness Rules the Hour at Davidson College

Press Release
College Relations

The music and theatre departments of Davidson College have joined forces to produce an artistic extravaganza performed on campus Friday
and Saturday, Apr. 24 and 25. Drawn from personal accounts of the 1789 French Revolution, “Madness Rules the Hour” features
an original score for voices and orchestra by Dr. Richard Prior, composer-in-residence and conductor of the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra.
Dr. Rupert Barber, professor of theatre and speech, has produced the text from contemporary journals, memoirs, and letters, and from
“The French Revolution” by Thomas Carlyle. Inspired by research findings of students in one of his courses, Barber began in
1994 the process of retelling the story musically and dramatically. Prior was intrigued, and together they forged this collage of
words and music with elements of oratorio, opera, recitative, and full orchestra. On stage simultaneously, a chorus of 80, a
mob of 50, and a 75-piece orchestra portray the passion and pathos of the French court and the hostility they
faced. The events that changed history come to life through the music and drama of “Madness Rules the Hour.”

Four years in the making

Recently, Melissa Ann deCastrique sat down with Rupert Barber, professor of theater and speech, to discuss “Madness Rules the Hour.”

The Davidsonian: How would you classify “Madness Rules the Hour?”
Barber: The show can really only be classified as “musical theatre” or a collage of music and voices. It is
a combination of oratorio, opera, and the spoken word. The production has no original words in it. The script is
a narrative stream of the words of the people of the revolution. In creating the libretto, I edited and focused
the words of letters, books, and transcripts. The choral pieces are from Carlyle’s language.

D: What was your inspiration for the show?
B: The genesis of “Madness” was in 1976, when my group performance class did a presentation on the American Revolution
in Mecklenburg County, based on letters, documents, and other primary sources. The idea resurfaced in 1994 when another group performance
class did a 45-minute program, this time on the French Revolution, using a number of literary allusions to Dickens and
Hugo.

D: “Madness Rules the Hour” seems very different from that original conception. Can you tell me about the process of
creating the current show?
B: I began doing my own research on the topic and found many letters and transcripts. Two books in particular
proved to be very useful. One was a memoir of the Marquise de La Tour du Pin, a one-time lady-in-waiting
to Queen Marie Antoinette. The other was a history of the French Revolution by Thomas Carlyle. It is an archaic
history in the florid Victorian style, and it really cried out to be sung. I then approached Dr. (Richard) Prior,
and he was very interested in the project. I applied for and was awarded a grant from the College to
spend a week at Versailles and a week in Paris. I visited numerous sites and museums in order to absorb
the atmosphere. I completed the libretto about two years ago, and Dr. Prior and I went over it together. He
then composed the music, staying very close to the original text.

D: What is the structure of the show?
B: The show opens with the court at Versailles and the women’s march there. The King then returns to Paris,
where the trial of the King and Queen is held. (Without blood, of course... no actor loses his head!) Joseph
Gardner is designing the set, and Ronnie Higdon is the lighting designer.

D: What would you consider the biggest production obstacles in staging the show?
B: This show is a challenge mainly because of the number of people involved. The choir has about 80 people,
and the orchestra has about 60 members. These sheer numbers, when added to the members of the court and mobs,
determined that the show would have to be performed in Love Auditorium. All performers are onstage at all times because
of the lack of room backstage. This really dictated the production format.

D: Who is involved in the show besides the choir and orchestra?
B: Dr. (Daniel) Boye, who in addition to teaching physics is a professional opera singer, is the King. Kate Scibal
is Marie Antoinette. Students from the Theatre 101, 121, and 221 will be onstage, while the Theatre design class is
working on the set. I am very pleased with how well the students are pulling together, especially in such a
short amount of time. I am also very pleased with how impressive Scibal and Boye’s performances have been in rehearsal.

Unlike “Les Miserables,” this is an intimate portrait of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette, which gives a new perspective.on the
personal motivations and political intrigue that came into play in this bloody revolution. Featured performers for this world premiere include
Dr. Dan Boye as Louis XVI; Kate Scibal, a sophomore from Lititz, Pa., as Marie Antoinette; the Davidson College Concert
Choir; and the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra. The Friday evening, Apr. 24, performance is at 8:00 p.m.; Saturday, Apr. 25,
is at 3:00 p.m. Both are in Love Auditorium in the Chambers Building on campus. Tickets at the door: $6
adults; $4 students and seniors.

College Relations @ Prior xr (left) and Barber, the minds behind “Madness.”

Concert Choir, Chamber Singers captivate DCPC
Spring concert offers variety of sacred English works
By Westey H. Goldsberry
Arts and Living Editor

Several hundred vocal music fans filled the pews at Davidson College Presbyterian Church last Friday night at 7:00 p.m., “noting
the early start,” to witness the grandeur of the 1998 Davidson Concert Choir & Chamber Singers Spring Concert. Students, faculty,
staff, and members of the Davidson community were treated to a moving one-hour performance of English church music. The choruses
sang an impressive conglomeration of works, most of which were featured in the program from the choirs’ 1998 Spring Break
tour, which took the vocalists northward to performances in Washington, D.C. and New York City, among other locales.

The near-90-voice Concert Choir took center stage in the sanctuary to begin the concert. As the massive ensemble let fly
the opening motive of Renaissance master William Byrd’s “Sing Joyfully Unto God Our Strength,” audience members might have closed their
eyes and pictured themselves seated in King’s College Chapel in Cambridge listening to Stephen Cleobury conduct its resident choir. The
choir sang with rhythmic precision, doing justice to Byrd’s intricate imitative polyphony. The performance was all the more impressive, as
it was sung a cappella.

The choir continued its chronological voyage through the annals of English repertoire, performing Elgar’s “Ave Verum Corpus,” Charles V. Stanford’s
“Justorum Animae,” and Britten’s “Te Deum” in C major, featuring treble solo by senior Mo Moore. Further mastery of tone
quality and proper balance were exhibited in all three of these works.

The Chamber Singers, a choir nearly a fourth of the size of its larger counterpart, performed the middle portion of
the concert. Their haunting performance of Tallis’s “Salvator Mundi” was a definite highlight of the evening. They also performed works
by Renaissance composers Peter Philips and Orlando Gibbons, Baroque master Henry Purcell, and 19th-century composers Stanford and Bairstow. Purcell’s “Lord,
How Long Wilt Thou be Angry?” featured stellar solos by alto Cary Phelps, tenor Phillip Stewart, and bass David Kang.
The remainder of the ensemble handled Purcell’s unusually chromatic writing with ease.

The Concert Choir resumed the stage for the evening’s three final works. The first of these, Sir William H. Harris’s
“The Eyes of All Wait Upon Thee, O Lord” was sung under the sturdy baton of senior music major Jeff
Hwang. The concert’s grand finale, Sir C. Hubert H. Parry’s “I Was Glad,” employed thunderous entrances by both the choir
and the organ which nearly shook the church down to its very Presbyterian foundations. “A piece so mighty, it took
a man with four names to compose it,” quipped one observer. The choir’s energy level and richness of tone were
most commendable, especially after having already sung so many demanding anthems.

The 1998 Spring Concert showcased an immense amount of talent and hard work, with the choirs earning a well-deserved standing
ovation at the evening’s end. Members of the choirs themselves recognized noticeable improvement in their performance from the beginning of
the season until this, the culmination of their sterling efforts. The Concert Choir’s busy year concludes this coming weekend with
two performances of “Madness Rules the Hour.”

At Body banter, serves more as an advertising promotion. On Thursday, Apr. 23, the Student Health Center will hold its
annual Health Fair on Chambers Lawn. This Health Fair scheduled for Thursday. This week’s article, unlike our usual raffling off
gift certificates from local merchants. Most importantly, the health guru herself, Georgia Ringle, will be on hand to answer ANY
questions you could possibly have. Last year the Health Fair will be held in conjunction with Earth Day activities, so
Thursday will be particularly festive. Come outside, enjoy the hopefully sunny weather, and partake of the delicious foods and tasty
beverages (sorry, non-alcoholic). Besides food, there will be tables with health-related exhibits, and we will also be ————- in advance
I would like to thank the plethora of people who have helped out with this event — from the wonderful
health advisors to the Patterson Court houses to the lovely ladies at the Student Health Center who made buttons all
day long. Hope to see everyone on Thursday at the Health Fair!

ONLY ONE MORE CHANCE. Opportunities to write for Call Wes (*6383).
