er, By Douglas Cutting _ Sports Editor Ann Harriott Fisher and Chris Tuttle are fired up. The newly elected president
and vice president of the SGA (respectively) are optimistic about the school’s future and the unfolding era of student government.
Their combined student government experience under both Warren Buford and Buster Burk has taught Fisher and Tuttle volumes about the
organization, and they are undoubtedly prepared to take it to a new level.

Since her freshman year when “Warren and Bill came walking down the hall” recruiting bright young freshmen to join the
SGA, Fisher has been involved. She began as a freshman senator under Bill Gullan’s administration. Then she won the sophomore
class presidential election and worked under Warren Buford’s administration. Fisher was elected vice president of the SGA her junior year
and has worked with Buster Burk in the latest chapter of SGA administration.

At the end of his freshman year, Tuttle was urged by friends to support the independent cause in student government.
So, on more of a whim than anything, he ran for the sophomore independent senator position and won. Realizing the
excitement and visible progress that student government provides, Tuttle has continued his involvement, winning the junior class presidential election and
also working under Burk’s supervision.

Supervision is a term that doesn’t really match up to Burk’s past administration, though. “Buster was so open and willing
to listen to everyone,” said Fisher, who also praised the freedom that Buster gave the SGA and individuals with unique
ideas. Slightly different from Burk’s administration was Buford’s, which both leaders say had more of an official air, one of
political orientation and getting things done.

Both leaders complimented the recent work of the SGA, and both would like to continue the tradition. “I think we’re
going to have to finish up,” said Fisher. Her initial outlook involves improving the Vamanos Van. Fisher also wants to
support the new kiosk in front of Chambers, a centralized place to hang flyers. “What I would like to see
as our first project is the whole SGA infrastructure,” said Fisher. Tuttle cites “tying up loose ends, closing loopholes, and
increasing subsequent committee chairperson accountability, and keeping people involved” as part of this minor overhaul that needs to take place.

Tuttle said that some unnecessary qualities exist in committees that are in the bylaws. Some of these committees have chairpersons,
but they might not actually meet the needs of the SGA — or ever meet as a group, for that
matter. Essentially, Fisher and Tuttle would like to tighten and strengthen the governing body, even meeting all the requirements of
the extensive SGA bylaws. However, realistically, they cannot match every section. “The bylaws are brilliant. If we could get the
SGA to run like it says in the bylaws, it would be a very strong system, but it’s hard to
get people interested and involved in such a technical system,” said Fisher. “We have 50 van drivers, and that’s 50
new active members, and if we could have that involvement for every committee...”

Fisher and Tuttle also want to improve faculty-student-trustee-administrative relations by balancing the involvement of each group on different committees. Fisher
said that students sit on both trustee and faculty committees, but that there is a glaring lack of faculty on
SGA committees. Communication between the respective groups is the first step, according to Tuttle and Fisher, that will be taken
to improve relations. “We have such an amazing faculty,” said Tuttle, who pointed out political science professor Tom Kazee’s recent
work with polling and the incredible resources among faculty members.

As the SGA, faculty, and administration gel, Fisher and Tuttle would like to branch out from the Davidson core and
improve town-gown relations. “We want the community to know that we know and care about the recent tragedy,” said Fisher,
and both Fisher and Tuttle want the student government and the school to help the community heal.

Burk addresses college community
By Michael J. Kruse - Senior Staff Writer

Outgoing student body president Buster Burk delivered his State of the School Address Tuesday night, urging students to take some
personal initiative in creating Davidson today while crafting its tomorrow. A crowd of approximately 30 students and administrators gathered in
the Morrison Room, as Burk — clad in a red and black bow tie and suit, “his Davidson suit,” as
he called it — gave the first such speech in recent memory. “We’re rising higher and higher,” he said of
Davidson. “It just takes some personal initiative.”

Other items of interest during Burk’s 20-minute talk:
On fraternities: “I don’t think fraternities will be taken from this campus anytime soon.”
On the recent sororities debate and things to come: “The issue of having an equal (to the fraternity system) for
women will not fall to the wayside.”
On the Honor Code and Council, which tried three times the average amount of cases last semester: “The Honor Code
needs to have a more public presence on campus. Students should know about the Code and trials — when they
happen and what the verdicts are.”
On the SGA’s relationship with...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

diversity of the student body: “Admissions is trying to do all it can to get rid of the financial aid
cap to increase the economic diversity of the student body.”

On increasing the endowment, which is considerably smaller than those of Davidson’s counterparts: “We have to think about what we’re
spending and where we’re spending now more than any other time.”

“I liked that he covered all areas of the College,” Sophomore Class President Foster Haselden said, “from the new dorm
to the new Dean of Faculty. He covered all facets of Davidson College, here and in the future. He’s tive.”

In particular, Burk focused on the College’s racial tensions. He commended efforts to increase awareness and tolerance through the Martin
Luther King Day afternoon activities, but said that “change is not going to happen without individual attention.” When eating at
the Commons, he added, “You have to take the responsibility on yourself to go sit with people who aren’t like
you. It’s up to each student.”

On that note, he announced an open forum with the Priorities Planning Group Friday at 4:00 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.
The PPG, which has been meeting for roughly a year now, examines what Davidson wants to be — or should
be — in both the near and distant future. Burk invited any and all students to attend the meeting and
voice their opinions on “what they think Davidson should be — how it should stay the same and how it
should change.”

the student body: “Everyone is a constituent and everyone is a senator, an SGA member. If people realized that, then
a lot of the frustration from either side would be alleviated. It just takes involvement.”

On the SGA’s future: “The student body can expect some very good things coming out of us in the next
year.”

On President Bobby Vagt: “I really have a lot of confidence in President Vagt. To tell you the truth, though,
he’s not everywhere at all times. There are just a lot of plastic dummies floating around.”

On Internet connections in all dorm rooms and possible cable television connections: “I’m worried the school will turn more reclusive,
that people will just stay in their rooms. I hope that doesn’t happen.”

Added Burk’s newly elected successor, Ann Harriot Fisher, “It was very confident. It kind of epitomized Buster’s term.”

“It was one more testimony that students around here think more broadly than what classes they have and what they’re
eating,” Vagt said at the informal reception following Burk’s speech. “The (SGA) President offers thoughts on the College and gives
a challenge. I think it’s great.”

The SGA met for the last time under Burk Tuesday night and presented him with a chair, a gift traditionally
given to SGA presidents at their last meeting. “He deserved it,” Haselden said. “He served the school as a class
president, student body president, and hall counselor.”

“It was Buster’s day today,” Fisher said.

By Erin McKinney Staff Writer

To learn stronger leadership skills, students at Davidson can enroll in the Emerging Leader Program. Open to all first- and
second-year students, an in-depth overview of the program will be presented tomorrow at 5:00 p.m. in the Union. Program requirements
and attendance policy will be among topics discussed. Depending on the amount of interest, students will be divided into two
groups, each with a ceiling of 25. Groups will meet every Wednesday or Thursday from 7:00-8:30 p.m. for six weeks.

Each weekly leadership lab session will cover a different topic and will feature speakers such as Dean of Students Tom
Shandley, Sherry Mulholland, and Emerging Leader co-coordinators Ernest Jeffries and Dee Jordan, Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Minority
Student Affairs, and Assistant Director of Residence Life, respectively. Topics that will be discussed include time management, communication skills, diversity,
stress management, group dynamics, and conflict resolution.

In its pilot year, the Emerging Leader Program accounts for one of the three Comprehensive Leadership Programs created in response
to Davidson’s recently awarded Duke Endowment. (The other two programs are Leadership Davidson and Student Leadership Retreat.)

According to Jordan, the Emerging Leader Program offers a “great opportunity for students who don’t have a lot of traditional
leadership experience.” Jeffries agreed, saying that the program specifically targets “those students who don’t necessarily consider themselves leaders.”

Designed to teach basic leadership skills and principles, the program will serve as a “building block,” and moreover, a “foundation
to move forward,” said Jordan. She went on to say that the principles and topics taught will apply to life
skills in addition to those needed “just to be a student here at Davidson.” Jeffries added that the program will
“hone some of those skills important to functioning in the community.”

One of the program’s requirements concentrates on this last aspect, community. Ten hours of service must be completed on campus
or in the Davidson area as part of the program’s curriculum, stressing the importance of leadership in the community. The
program also consists of a mentor component. Upperclassmen nominated by the Davidson staff and faculty will be paired with each
participant in the Emerging Leader Program.

Another aspect of the program requires students to keep a reflective journal, which will include what the student learned at
each lab session and how they feel that information could be applied in a leadership position. According to Jeffries, the
journals will “try to point out how (the students) changed during the experience, and also give (the coordinators) an indication”
of the program’s effectiveness.
