THE DAVIDSONIAN

Union president Pollack wants to remain behind the scenes

By Jessica Goopson
Senior Staff Writer

In last week’s Category II elections, junior Cintra Pollack ran unopposed for the pivotal position of Union Board President. Although she comes equipped with a novel approach, Pollack expressed her desire to preserve the current caliber of Union programming. In her own words, Pollack is “not out to dazzle anyone with shiny new proposals.”

“My plan is not necessarily to be as visible as (former Union President) Matthew Hobbie,” she said. “I will be there if I am called upon, but I can’t be everywhere at once. I'd rather be behind the scenes orchestrating everything so smoothly that no one even knows I’m there. It’s just a different method of leadership.”

By dint of her position, Pollack will also serve as an ex officio member on CCRL and the planning committee for the new Student Union. “It is crucial that the Union Board not only continue their excellent programming, but also have the vision for how the new Union has to be constructed, physically and philosophically, to serve the Davidson community,” said Pollack in her campaign statement.

With plans for the new Union gaining momentum, Pollack has committed to representing students’ interests by fostering their communication with the architect selected. She also stood behind the Environmental Action Coalition in favor of their endeavors to make the new Union “green.”

“No one wants to build an energy-guzzling monster of a building,” she said. “(David) Orr’s speech generated a lot of enthusiasm, and there will definitely be an opportunity for students to voice those ideas directly to the architect.”

In the meantime, Pollack will strive to keep the present Union in working order.

“I want the Union to run and serve its purpose. It’s not my single-handed responsibility to change it. It can be improved upon, and I have the ability to take others’ visions and facilitate their becoming reality. Revolutionary change has its place, but I want the Union to grow gradually.”

Junior Thirza Sayers and sophomore Tyler Aycock will join Pollack’s administration as social and co-curricular vice presidents, respectively. Pollack explained that the two aspects of Union programming serve not only to entertain, but to enrich.

“We try to make the breadth of students’ education wider,” she said. “Davidson is about being a ‘whole’ person.”

When asked how she will incorporate the community into future Union events, Pollack referred to community dinners, the community Christmas party, and a possible reinstatement of the Fall Festival.

“I don’t believe the Union is just for students, but their dollars do fuel it,” said Pollack. “When we talk about enrichment, to a degree that means getting townspeople on campus and students off campus. But the Union should, first and foremost, be for the student.”

Pollack additionally spoke of encouraging faculty and staff input in Union events. By inviting professors to bring their expertise to bear on issues outside of the classroom, Pollack hoped to involve them in Union programming to a greater extent.

“Students also have to be responsible,” said Pollack. “Good unions become so through support, involvement, appreciation, and feedback. A small community relies on open dialogue to know what works and how we can make it better. I know what's important to me, but unless you tell me, I don’t know what’s important to you.”

“The union is supposed..."To be fun,” she said. “With good time management, it’s doable. From here on out, in case you are wondering, those bags under my eyes aren’t fatigue, they are bags of joy.”

By Saray OGDEN
Eldridge encourages Court participation
Co-Editor in Chief

“I want to make the Court a place where all students can go to get away from stress,” said PCC president Conner Eldridge. The newly elected junior English major has big plans for the PCC during his term in office, as well as ideas on fraternities and a fourth eating house.

Though Eldridge denies that a fraternity task force has been formed “per se,” he does defend fraternities whole-heartedly and said that he plans to encourage more open parties that would include Independents, as well as members of Patterson Court. Eldridge plans to show the College that members of the Court are healthier than other students because they have a place to go to relieve stress. “This school is not just about academics,” he said. He plans to show the College that fraternities do have a place on campus. “I think banning frats would weigh too heavily on the school,” said Eldridge.

Eldridge thinks that a fourth eating house is a “really good idea” because of the sheer numbers of women in the eating houses. “Smaller numbers would help women form a closer bond,” he said. “A fraternity is about the right size.”

As for President Bobby Vagt’s sorority decision, Eldridge said, “I agree with it and disagree with it at the same time.” Eldridge is “undecided how it would affect the applicant pool,” but thinks Davidson may have seen more of a regional breakdown, with more Southern female applicants. “Our current system works pretty good,” he said. Eldridge feels that a fourth eating house would be more appropriate for the current system and would still give the benefit of “knowing fewer people better.”

Overall, “I’m looking forward to an exciting year,” said Eldridge, who expects many issues to arise around the balance of social and academic life at Davidson. “I want to prove to everybody that we (the PCC) do have an important role on campus.” Eldridge encouraged “all students to make their voices heard, whether they agree with me or not” by attending PCC meetings, which are held every Thursday at 7:30 p.m. “I’m scared to think what this place would be like without the Court,” he said.

Adventure in Leadership
Education * Community Health * Construction * Environment

Live in a Latin American community this summer. Be part of the answer to our neighbors’ public health needs.

Amigos de las Americas
* 800.231.7796 X133
* Email: info@amigoslink.org
* www.amigoslink.org
* 5618 Star Lane, Houston TX 77057

Journey in understanding a world of differences!

WHEN:
WHERE:
Cost:
LEAD BY Dr. David Staton, Student Counseling

“I’m late! I’m late!” Time Management/Procrastination Workshop Series

3 Wednesdays, Feb. 4, 11, & 25, at 3:30 p.m.
Residence Life Conference Room - Basement Belk
FREE

This 3-workshop series addresses: surprising causes of procrastination; common traps in which efforts to stop procrastination worsen it; special tips for GETTING STARTED; FEELING BETTER about working; FREEDOM that using a schedule can bring; special tips for WRITING PAPERS ON TIME (without ALL-NIGHTERS!); et cetera!! Emphasis is on making something HAPPEN! Limited to 20 Students - Call x2451

YOU CAN DO THIS!