8 __THEDAVIDSONIAN__

Some things just are not amusing

I never feel discriminated against because my tresses are Tahitian blonde. I am capable of laughing at myself sometimes. And when I describe my hair as Tahitian blonde, it ain’t my creativity, honey, it’s the side of the Clairol box. So I'll take the kidding in stride. That’s pretty much where I draw the line, though. Don’t tell me any anti-female jokes, and please, don’t come near me with racist jokes. Some things just are not amusing.

Take last week's “Consumer Report,” for example. “The only column you ever need to read”? That’s the scariest thing I’ve ever heard. Isn’t it sad that the same issue with Rebecca Hazelton’s article, which so eloquently discusses the finer points of feminism, is home to a wretched display of sexism? I recognize the attempt to be humorous, but please, MRS. Degree? Not only is that a tried and overworked joke, but it is also degrading. I don’t have to tell you that women work damn hard at this school.

And as for women jokes in general, their so-called humor must relieve something deep-rooted in the male who tells them — a feeling of inadequacy? Of being threatened? Perhaps some of you equipped with testosterone can enlighten me. I’m missing the amusement.

I also miss the “humor” component of racist humor. Recently, I was sitting in my room with some friends when someone started telling jokes. A few of them brought a smile to my face. Then our resident comedian said, “I have a racist joke — it’s bad but it’s really funny.” When I immediately said, “I don’t want to hear it,” he replied, “Okay, I'll tell it in the hallway.” I stared in disbelief as several of my friends followed him into the hallway. Excuse me? And we’re supposed to be America’s best and brightest?

And please, don’t rationalize. My absolute favorite line is, “I’m not racist, it’s just a really funny joke.” News flash, ace: Racism is not funny. The punchlines of these jokes only serve to perpetuate stereotypes. I don’t really see how this is a good thing. Don’t tell the joke. And by all means, if some other knucklehead wants to tell it, don’t listen. Don’t listen and then pretend to embrace diversity. Then you’re a hypocrite. A big one.

I see you out there, you're reading this article and thinking, “That’s HER problem, not mine, if she can’t take a joke.” Okay, now picture my hand passing over my Tahitian blonde hair as I make a “whoosh” sound. Because this article just went right over your head. If we can’t see the degrading nature of sexist and racist jokes, then the future of our society is in big trouble. Stupidity in seemingly little matters represents large-scale ignorance, and that is everyone’s problem, seriously.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

The Wildcat has fangs

Jen Dennis, Aticia SHELTON & Lacy Garcia
Student Opinion

In response to the cry for help from our fellow sophomore, we offer some thought:

1. “Catch the clue bus.” You’ve only been a non-freshman for a little over a month. Freshmen perspectives, while sometimes clichéd, can be endearing. Leave them alone.
2. Where is the girl who wrote so enthusiastically for the freshmen in the freshman face book? With the exception of a few hook-ups under their belts, they haven’t changed that much.
3. As far as complaints from freshmen, give them time — Davidson proves to be an acquired taste more often than love at first sight.
4. A quarter of Davidson is made up of freshmen; don’t slam them for wanting to be involved. If 75 percent don’t meet up to your standard, realize the fact that some people have other things to do.
5. If we, the stereotypical sophomore bitches, can cut the freshmen some slack; why can’t a cheerleader give them a little rah-rah, too?
6. One last question, is the “sexy Corvette” title inspired by Prince?

*Note: Watch out, Max. We’re picking out our little sundresses for this weekend.

Let me enlighten you: The finer points of NASCAR

I’m from South Carolina, therefore, I am a HUGE NASCAR FAN! I’m really excited because this Sunday I’m going to the race! I find this humorous because by the time this is printed the race will be over. Ah well, deadlines, they suck. Anyway, back to NASCAR. I understand that I’m in the position of being an ambassador of sorts for the world of NASCAR because nobody seems to really know what the hell it’s all about. The fans generally pull for the Ford guys, either Mark Martin (#6) or Dale Jarrett (#88), who are great guys who pull off a good show for the Ford Motor Company.

Che Dabtdsontan
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
Editor in Chief
SARAHE. OGDEN Business Manager; SCOTT REEDER News Editors Op-Ed Editor LIZ NEIHEISEL Circulation Manager ERIN McKINLEY CARRIE ARTHUR EUGENIA LEATH Arts & Living Editors Sports Editors MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE ALISON KALETT BRIAN MAYERHOFER DAVID JOHNSTON WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY News Layout Editors Copy Editors Op-Ed Layout Editors JOHN DUNWOODY WHITNEY BLAKE JOHN DUNWOODY EVAN McCORMICK CINDY CLARK EVAN McCORMICK ELDER GWIN JOHN DUNWOODY WILL PARKER STEPHANIE ERICKSON Sports Layout Editors MOLLY MARKARIAN Arts & Living Layout Editors BEN COVINGTON CATHERINE CORNWELL CADER HOWARD Ad Designers KAREN SWEENEY BEN COVINGTON AILEEN WATERS CADER HOWARD Photo Editor SALLIE McCMURRAY

Founded in 1914 “The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly” Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

So, my dear Yankee friends, let me enlighten you. NASCAR stands for Noise Action Six-pack Crashes American Racin’. And it’s not about turning left and hanging on for dear life. I doubt many of the well-cultured members of the Davidson community have had the opportunity to venture out into the world of NASCAR so I'll explain some fundamental facts that you need to know in order to pass the Southern test (bet y’all didn’t know you had to pass a test did y’all? Y’all see, it’s like a green card except it’s red).

The cars are all, of course, American models, either of the Chevy, Pontiac, or Ford variety. Each car has a sponsor who gives the race team money; a good example of this is any large beer company (or as NASCAR fans call it, breakfast). Bud, Coors, and Miller give more money to NASCAR than most countries’ gross national products. Ha! Now you like NASCAR, don’t you? You bunch of alchies! After all, if it’s good enough for Louie the Bud lizard, the beer-guy, and Bick, then it’s good enough for Davidson!

Now to the important part of NASCAR, the drivers. To be a true fan you have to pull for a driver like he was your hunting dog. However, there are several “camps,” if you will. The largest, loudest, and drunkest camp comprises the members of the racing community who pull for Dale Earnhardt. Dale is the infamous #3 you see on large pickup trucks everywhere. And just a quick word of caution — do not ever holler out your window, “Dale Earnhardt is a pansy-ass” because, believe me, that redneck will find you and...well...you ever seen Deliverance?

After Dale, the driver with the greatest fan following is most likely Bill Elliot (#94). Bill is from Dawsonville, Ga. (Awesome Bill from Dawsonville is not a kick-ass nickname?). Bill’s a capital guy who everyone likes. He’s like Garfield; you can’t help but love him. After Bill, last but NOT least is Jeff Gordon (#24); nobody likes Jeff Gordon, it seems. I went to a race in Charlotte last year, and I was scared for my life — “BOY! You like that pansy-ass Jeff Gordon, because if you do...” Thankfully, I’m a fairly quick boy, and I ran for my life. Jeff gets booed so loudly at races, I couldn’t hear myself hum “Freebird.” Jeff's got a couple of things going against him. First off, he’s originally from California, which is not a Yankee state, but it isn’t North Carolina and sure as hell isn’t a Southern state. Secondly, he’s really good and beats up on both the Ford gang and Dale, which makes everyone hate him even more. As a matter of fact, I think I’m the only Jeff Gordon fan this side of the Mason-Dixon line; well, not really, but it seems that way sometimes.

Finally, why NASCAR is important to American society and the continued prosperity of the American people....well...ummm...it isn’t. It’s about having a good ole time! C’mon folks! It’s all about 700 horsepower cars and drinking beer on Sundays; this is as American as moonpies. What do you think all that driving stuff is about, anyway? It’s all of us Americans on our daily trip out onto I-77 or whatever road people commute on! We are all Jeff, Dale, Mark, and Bill every time we fire up the old car. Somebody tell me they’ve never wanted to hit the guy in front of ‘em and pass ‘em while giving a vulgar gesture out the window? Hell, if the Pope could drive he’d love NASCAR; he’d be hanging his papal robes out the window telling that damn trucker exactly what he felt about the “Call 1-800 to report on my driving” sticker on the back of his truck. My personal favorite will always be, “How’s my driving? Call 1-800-EAT-SH&T.” That one always made me laugh.

So you see y’all, NASCAR isn’t some Southern hick redneck thing...it’s...a Southern hick redneck thing...but damn, it’s one hell of a good time!

TO OPINE IS DIVINE. WRITE FOR Op-Ed. Call Erin (x6064).