THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1998

VAC Attack shows student support

BY JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
News and OP-ED Layout Editor

On Thursday, Oct. 22, the Visual Arts Center hosted what has now become known as the VAC Attack. The art students banded together, planned, and orchestrated the evening’s events, which occurred from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. The purpose was to raise awareness and support against closing the Visual Arts Center (VAC) between the hours of 1 a.m. and 6 a.m.

President Bobby Vagt attended the events and entertained a question and answer session, which allowed students to voice their opinions, comments, and concerns. Following this informal discussion, there were live performances that ranged from dramatic interpretations to dance, poetry readings, drumming, and guitarists. In tandem with the other events, the Studio Art majors had arranged a selection of some of their current works for a viewing in the student gallery. About 400 students and faculty attended some portion of the three hours of visual and auditory events.

As items stand right now, the outcome for the VAC remains the same as all of the other buildings; it will be closed between the hours of 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. President Vagt’s take on the closing focused on the issues of fairness and money for financial aid. Closing the VAC and the other buildings will allow more money to be placed in the hands of students in need of financial aid. The money saved will allow many financial aid recipients the ability to continue on with their education at this institution as well as providing incoming students with the same privileges.

The students raised many questions in rebuttal to this line of thinking. One student questioned, “In supporting the students of tomorrow, shouldn’t the president be supporting first and foremost the students’ needs of today? We are here now and we need these things now; you should be supporting the rights of student education right now and not making cutbacks for tomorrow by hurting the students of today.”

President Vagt also took a strong stance on maintaining fairness across the board. If one building will be closed from 1 to 6 a.m., all the buildings should be closed from 1 to 6 a.m. Students countered President Vagt’s fairness outlook with the fact that no viable alternative will be made for art students in the new 24-hour Union. Vagt, standing by his equality of majors stance, cited the psychology, chemistry, and biology majors who will not be able to access their experiments during these same hours as a way of showing that he was not singling out one group of students.

One Studio Art major made the point that “oftentimes we cannot pick up what we are working on and take it home or to the Union to work on it.” Studio Art major Melissa Otis made the statement that, “It would almost be like telling students that at 1 a.m. they cannot take any of their library books home or anywhere else.” President Vagt stood by the idea that the closing of the buildings was for the greater good of the students and that in the future when more funds are available the possibility remains to revert these actions.

One student in opposition asked, “Is it really fair to close all the buildings and back the arts into a corner, should we really be limiting the true potential of the art students?” Jesse Smallwood questioned, “Exactly how much money will closing the VAC really save, and will these expenses justify these actions?” Despite the length of the discussion, many students left with more unanswered questions than answers.

The evening’s events ended with the raising of a banner in front of the VAC that stated, “Life is short, Art is long.” This statement comes from the Latin inscription on the seal of the Visual Art Center. And more importantly, as Otis stated, “This is only the beginning, we will continue to work against this action. It is evident by the student support that this issue is larger than President Vagt seems to think. If this many people attended, then we are not alone!”

SGA informs student body with update

BY AMANDA BRITT
Independent Senator

In case you grabbed a hot dog between classes or savored a gardenburger on the Union patio amid friends and faculty, SGA thanks you for supporting its biannual interactive gala held Monday, Oct. 19. After much preparation and rescheduling around dreary weather, SGA Day harvested great success. Whether you signed up for an SGA committee, mingled with members,or simply sank your teeth into a char-grilled beef burger (sorry we ran out of ‘dogs), your participation played a part in helping SGA keep in touch with the people we represent. On Tuesday, Oct. 20, the SGA resumed its weekly session after Fall Break with President Ann Harriott Fisher’s call to order and welcome, followed by newly appointed Chancellor Laurie de Vegter calling roll. Each committee chairman in charge of working on one of our year’s goals then gave a report on how their committee was progressing. The committee working to improve environmental awareness emphasized recycling. Many feel a great lack of education and promotion of recycling lingers in Davidson’s halls and houses. (Blue trash bags are for recyclable products, and white trash bags are for “wet” wastes.) Problems also addressed included the overloaded trash dumpsters at the senior apartments, which often attract curious, skunk-ish specimens. Environmental awareness information will be coming soon.

It is official that the Union will be open 24 hours for an alternate study vicinity to Chambers and other education buildings that will be closed for energy conservation. Not to worry, President Vagt assures those who burn the midnight oil that no building will close after 1 a.m. until the Union is prepared to function ‘round the clock. Union Board President Cintra Pollack informed the SGA “Lights Out” Committee that she and her committee will propose to the ATC to reinstate longer, more consistent Cafe hours as well as funds to cover the additional cost of labor and maintenance. These costs in total promise to be around $7,500, not including the actual finances entailed in keeping the building running 24 hours. Also noteworthy are the expenses for enhancing study facilities, such as installing dry erase boards and desk lamps. Several members of the “Lights Out” Committee are seeking ‘hard’ evidence on how much money is being saved from each education building that will close between 1 and 6 a.m.

Finally, members voted to appoint junior Marie Sharp as a Davidson Marshall. This honor is given to students who characterize Davidson through their contributions of service, leadership, and character. Congratulations, Marie!

Last chance: This week will conclude the Annual Fund Raiser, Phoneathon. Come any time from 6 to 9 p.m. to the Student Health Center’s basement and call Davidson alumnae. Your help will be greatly appreciated. The SGA meets every Tuesday at 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

You’re all invited to the... SGA Phonathon! Sun.-Wed. nights 6-9 pm Oct. 24-28 & Nov. 1-4 Student calling center (below the student health center) PRIZES! FREE FOOD! **The person who raises the MOST MONEY wins a free plane ticket!!

Homeruns for Habitat raises over $1000
BY BURGIN HARDIN
Staff Writer

College kids up at 6 a.m. on a Saturday morning? I think not. While it sounds like something out of a freaky “Twilight Zone” episode, early Saturday morning, Oct. 17, many of our classmates did indeed stumble out of bed early and head to Moore Park to participate in the annual Homeruns for Habitat softball game. The charity event sponsored by Kappa Sigma and Rusk got underway at 6 a.m., and the bats didn’t stop swinging until 6 p.m. that evening. Through the sale of t-shirts and the sponsorship of local businesses, the event raised over $1,000 for the local Habitat for Humanity program, a nonprofit organization that constructs housing for needy area families. Habitat for Humanity is actually an international organization that was founded in 1976 and has built over 70,000 homes worldwide. The local chapters rely completely on volunteer efforts in everything from building to administration to fundraising, which is why efforts of Davidson students are so admirable.

Student participation was the key to the event’s success, and the enthusiasm of all those who came throughout the day to play was proof that Davidson students are concerned about the community. Also, the fact that the game offered students a chance to be active was also another big draw. Freshman Adam Rocap summarized the event’s success, saying, “It was a great fundraiser because it raised money for a good cause, and everyone got to enjoy a great day playing America’s greatest sport.” Much thanks to everyone who came out and played a few of the 100 innings that filled the day. Also, thank you to all the businesses who lent their time and support to the event. If you wish to become involved in Habitat for Humanity and give some of your time to others, contact Anna Katherine Clemmons or Mary Kathryn Ross.