@ Kurt Holmes took Jim Barber’s place for last Thursday’s meeting while Barber and four eating house representatives attended the Southern Panhellenic Conference in Atlanta; President Bobby Vagt also attended the PCC meeting. @ Apr. 7 at 7 p.m. is the last of the mandatory information sessions for new members of Patterson Court. Bart Landess will give a lecture entitled “Risk Managing for Dummies.” @ PCC President Conner Eldridge reminded the Council that pledging ended Mar. 22, and all pledges should now be fully initiated. @ The fourth eating house will be voted on by CCRL, the house’s next step to officially coming into existence. @ The Patterson Court Games’s schedule was announced: On Wednesday at 5 p.m., Sigma Alpha Epsilon will hold a cake- or pie-eating contest at the Commons; Thursday, Kappa Alpha will sponsor a horseshoe throw, Phi Delta Theta will host a ping pong tournament, and Pi Kappa Alpha will hold a fussball tournament (all at 4 p.m.), and Warner Hall will sponsor a lip-synch contest at 7 p.m.; a service project will be held Saturday morning, followed by Rusk’s water balloon slingshot competition at 1 p.m., Kappa Sigma’s three-on-three basketball at 1:30 p.m., Connor’s tug-of-war at 2 p.m., Phi Gamma Delta’s egg toss in the middle of the Court at 2:30 p.m., the Black Student Coalition's bat-spin relay in the middle of the Court at 3 p.m., and Sigma Phi Epsilon’s bus pull in the Patterson Court Circle at 4 p.m. The week will close Sunday at 8 p.m. with an Order of Omega-sponsored awards ceremony in the Harrison Room of the Commons. Faculty teams to compete in the Games are still needed. @ The Council discussed senior class president Tim Saintsing’s proposal to eliminate all but one Independent and one Patterson Court representative in the SGA. “It’s a very bad idea,” said one representative. Other Council members echoed that sentiment, saying that they have gotten ‘no positive feedback about it at all” from their houses. @ Sanctions against Sigma Phi Epsilon have not yet been approved by Dean Shandley. Phi Delta Theta’s trial will be held tomorrow. @ Sixty people are needed for a service project that involves cleaning up Irwin Lodge, said PCC Service Chair Christine Larned. Sign-up sheets will be posted in each Court house. Once restored, the Lodge will serve as a recreation area for the College and the community. It should be available for use within the next few years, said Larned. Larned is also looking into putting together service opportunities with Habitat for Humanity. Plans for a College-community Easter egg hunt are still uncertain. @ Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Nancy Cable and Assistant Dean and Scholarship Coordinator of Admission Sally Stone spoke on Decision Davidson, which will coincide this year with Patterson Court’s Spring Frolics. Cable said that the Friday of the Court’s Frolics, 80 to 100 prospective students will be on campus. Then, saying that she was appealing “‘on bended knee,” Cable continued, “We need to be very careful that they are not exposed to alcohol.” Cable expects 40 to 50 prospectives to stay overnight with hosts on Saturday, which will give them the opportunity to experience Court life if they so choose. (All Decision Davidson activities end at 5 p.m. on Saturday.) Cable said that she expects it to be a fun weekend as long as everyone is careful. “I think this has a lot of potential to be a fun weekend,” Eldridge agreed. @ The possibility of a band co-sponsored by the Union Board and the PCC is still being discussed. Price-range is a concern, as are the conflicting alcohol policies of the Union and the Court. 

SARAH OGDEN

All goes well on Lottery Night

Lottery Night from page 1

to the number of students in each lottery group; the first and last groups were quite large, with the intermediate groups considerably smaller. Holmes also cited outlines for a few possible changes for Lottery Night in years to come. The most important change, he thought, would be to resolve the problem of uneven numbers of students in each time slot. Remarking that lottery numbers and student clustering vary from year to year, he acknowledged that the problem has no permanent solution. Another change Holmes suggested benefits the students, rather than the RLO staff. He understood that the students participating in lottery prefer to see not only which rooms have been blocked out, but also who will be occupying the room. In future years, overhead projectors might show this information. The last change that Holmes mentioned would make the transition smoother when students return to campus after spending first semester abroad. By granting them off-campus housing privileges early in the year, RLO hopes to relieve leasing difficulties. Holmes also reported a few miscellaneous facts. RLO only turned away three groups of rising juniors from Martin Court, and there is a “healthy” wait list for singles. As of right now, all on-campus housing has been assigned. Holmes gave a positive opinion of rooms opening up for the 22 students who were wait-listed for on-campus housing, though. Usually, students leaving campus the next semester make their decisions later in the semester, which opens rooms after lottery night. In all other respects, RLO said that lottery night was a success. In the words of freshman Owen Merrow: “It was no big deal.”

Jones and Prince win Oeland Scholarship

By Lynda Wilson
Staff Writer

This summer, Davidson students senior Amy F. Jones and junior Jason Prince will be breathing a little easier. The two were selected as this year’s recipients of the Oeland Scholarship for Summer Language Study Abroad, which provides each of them with a scholarship for $2,000. The funds may be used to lighten the costs of any summer Study Abroad program where study of a language is the primary goal. For overFor 11 years, the Oeland scholarship has been making it possible for students to study abroad in order to learn more about a language, according to Meg Kimmel, Director of Donor Relations. The scholarship would not be possible, however, without the gifts of Mary Oeland. Oeland, a resident of Houston, Texas, is the widow of Davidson graduate Ray Oeland ‘25. During his lifetime, Mr. Oeland was a very generous donor to the College, said Kimmel. Any student who has ever gone to the language lab in the basement of Chambers, The Oeland Language Center, has benefitted from his support. The Center is funded by an endowment set up by the Oelands which has and will continue to keep the Center running so that students may further their knowledge of foreign languages and cultures.

Ms. Oeland did not want their support of the College to end with his death. She remains very active in Davidson’s affairs and currently serves on the Board of Visitors. Members of this board are not Davidson graduates, yet still invest an exceptional amount of time and energy in making Davidson a better place. Each year the Board meets with the president of the College to learn more about campus current events and to give feedback or suggestions on college programs.

One of the most significant ways Ms. Oeland continues to make an impact on the campus is through the Oeland Scholarship for Summer Study Abroad. “Ms. Oeland is a great believer in the value of travel itself as an educator,” said Kimmel. She believes that only through immersing oneself in a country and its culture can one truly begin to understand its language. Said Kimmel, “She really does believe in that. It gives her a great deal of pleasure, and she gets very excited when she thinks about Davidson students who are able to use the Oeland scholarship to go do that.”

Ms. Oeland also realizes, however, that travel and study abroad is very expensive. It is for this very reason that two years ago she decided to increase the scholarship from $1,000 to two scholarships at $2,000 apiece. Ms. Oeland wanted the scholarship to have a profound impact on reducing the costs of the students’ study abroad and to lighten their financial burden.

Jones will use the scholarship to fund her study abroad in Tours, France. She is participating in “June in Tours,” a one-month study abroad program at the Institute de Touraine. There, she and Davidson’s seven other participants will join students of other nationalities who will all do an intensive study of the French language during the day and live with host families throughout the city at night. Students will also have the opportunity to take weekend excursions to Paris and other parts of France in order to see and experience as much French culture as possible. Jones will probably not participate in these excursions, however. “I'd like to become as capable in French as I possibly can,” said Jones. “I really want to speak it well.” She feels the best way to accomplish this is by spending most of her time immersed in her studies.

As an English major and Spanish minor, French is actually Jones’s third language. She took French 103, Intensive French, last semester and is taking French 203, Intensive Advanced French, this semester. Jones continues to pursue languages so vigorously because she hopes one day to work in some facet of international business. Said Jones, “I’d like to work in the international branch of a bank or teach languages, maybe, within a company.” Having the skills to understand a third language will help her better achieve these career goals.

Prince, also an English major, will be participating in the Davidson Summer in Mexico program. He and approximately 12 other students will be accompanied by Davidson Spanish Assistant Professor Ramon Figueroa for a six-week study abroad program in Mexico. Instead of taking classes at a Mexican university, as with the Tours program, students will instead be taught by Figueroa in the subjects of Mexican Art, Contemporary Mexican Issues, and Intermediate or Intensive Spanish. One of the benefits of this program, according to Prince, is that each student will meet three times a week with their own Mexican “tutor.” The tutors are not teachers, but rather friends who meet with each of the students three times a week to introduce them to the social and cultural environment of the city. Prince is especially excited at this prospect because, through these meetings and their living with host families, the students will further their understanding of the Spanish language, but more importantly, the Mexican culture.

Though his major is English, this time abroad will actually help Prince with his senior thesis. “I’m getting ready to write an honors thesis on Ernest Hemingway,” said Prince. “Although I’m not going to Spain, there are elements (of Spain and Mexico’s cultures) that are similar that I can take advantage of.” This time abroad will hopefully give Prince a better feel for the culture about which several of Hemingway's novels were centered, as well as advancing him towards his goal of one day reaching fluency in the Spanish language.

Applications for the Oeland Scholarship for Summer Study Abroad are available each year in the Study Abroad Office. Anyone interested in learning more should contact Carol Ortmayer, Coordinator of Study Abroad.

Anna Judy

Eco-Fact: Every day, an area of tropical rainforest the size of Philadelphia (74,000 acres) is destroyed. (Source: “The Rainforest Book”)

REMEMBER, ONLY THREE WEEKS UNTIL EARTH DAY!