“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”
Established 1914

Rubber boas live on.
Dorcas speaks.

NEWS 3

Britton Taylor sucks.

Bennett bashes the complainer.

OPINIONS 8

Libido-icide.

Mitch discusses sex drive.

A&L 10

Cats claw their way to the top.
Men’s b-ball wins regular season title

SPORTS 16

As part of Alcohol Awareness Week, Ann Strauser ‘99 participated in a demonstration on the effects of drinking, which required
her to receive a breathalyzer test from an N.C. highway patrolman.

Ringle pleased with outcome of Alcohol Awareness Week

Week of speakers and events ends with positive results

By Carrie Arthur
Staff Writer

For many students, alcohol is a normal part of college life. As Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Minority
Student Affairs Ernest Jeffries admits, “underage drinking is a problem on campus.” Alcohol Awareness Week, which began Thursday, Feb. 12,
highlighted this problem.

The week began with a program by two speakers from MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Driving), who spoke about their own
personal experiences with drunk driving. The first speaker was a father whose 18-year-old daughter died in a jet-ski accident when
her friend ran into her after he had been drinking. The other speaker was a college-age girl who killed her
best friend when she drove drunk. Not only must she live with the guilt for the rest of her life,
but she is also a convicted felon. The talk was open to the entire campus and the Davidson community, and
new members of Patterson Court were required to attend. After the talk, the speakers passed out MADD ribbons and met
with individual students, and ice cream was served. One of the points Health Educator Georgia Ringle found most interesting is
that approximately 15 percent of the audience had lost a family member or loved one in an accident involving a
drunk driver.

On Friday, Feb. 13, the BAT Mobile came to campus. Ringle said that the talk was “very popular” because students
were interested in seeing how the sobriety tests, DWI checkpoints, and the machine for testing blood alcohol level work. In
the van, there were also goggles which simulated the effects of a 1.6 blood alcohol limit, which is twice the
legal driving limit. Outside the van, the student group SHOCK served mocktails, traditional alcoholic drinks without the alcohol.

Then, on Friday evening, a N.C. highway patrolman performed a sobriety test with real alcohol in the 900 Room. The
highway patrolman served three students vodka and tonic, champagne, and beer respectively. Ringle said that the variety of alcohol demonstrated
that “it doesn’t matter what you’re drinking; your blood alcohol level will rise.” He served the students enough alcohol to
make them close to the legal driving limit of .08. After a movie about drunk driving, the patrolman performed sobriety
tests on the students. Ringle said, “The students did confess that they were feeling fairly buzzed and they probably should
not drive.” Ringle said the purpose of the program was “to really demonstrate that there is impairment pretty much early
on in the drinking situation.”

The last program was on Monday, Feb. 16. Judge Vic Fleming—a Davidson alumnus and author—spoke about his experience as a
traffic court judge in Little Rock, Ark., and responsible drinking. Ringle said that he had “a good sense of humor”
and at the same time “gave wonderful information about what alcohol does to your brain, to your liver, to your
reflexes.” Fleming emphasized the importance of drinking responsibly and of not binge drinking. This talk was mandatory for new Patterson
Court members, but other students and members of the Davidson community attended, as well.

While Ringle said, “I hope that it’s not just a week in people’s lives,” she plans to continue with programs
throughout the year. Ringle hopes that Alcohol Awareness Week increased awareness about the whole issue. Ringle knows there are “certain
realities of college campus life I’m not going to be able to eliminate, but I certainly want (students) to be
more thoughtful about their drinking and to be more moderate, and to stay away from the outer edges of driving
drunk or getting to the point where they are reaching near toxic levels, such as alcohol poisoning.”

Ringle emphasized that there are meetings for Alcoholics Anonymous on Mondays at 8 p.m. in room 205 of Davidson College
Presbyterian Church. Alanon also meets in room 205 of DCPC on Wednesdays at 9 p.m. for friends and loved ones
of alcoholics.

On a more positive side, Ringle added that there is “less drinking than people perceive.” In an alcohol and drug
survey conducted last year, 15 to 20 percent of Davidson students said that they do not drink or rarely drink,
which means one to two drinks per year. Within the population that does drink, the majority does not binge drink,
which is categorized as drinking five or more drinks in one sitting.

Ringle knows many people “that are perfectly capable of having a fantastic, goofy time without a drop of alcohol.” She
said, “We need to have more of that good time.” Ringle encourages students “to be brainstorming and looking at ways
to make our campus a safe and healthy environment.” She said, “I welcome ideas and volunteers.” Patterson Court Advisor and
Resident Life Coordinator Jim Barber agreed that they are trying to “continually educate students about the risks involved with alcohol
and alcohol abuse.” He was happy with the results of Alcohol Awareness Week: “I was really pleased with the programs—the
benefits to the students that attended.” He added that he was “glad Patterson Court was a part of that.”

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
