1. In response to student interest in the Union, I believe that a major issue that needs to be examined
is extending the Union to represent the entire student body. I would like to see a more active interaction between
the Union and Patterson Court to create more interest in the supporters of both of these organizations. I also believe
that a better system of advertising events needs to be cultivated to increase student awareness of what is happening around
campus. Options in this area could be a consolidation of event fliers to provide one source of information, or even
the development of an electronic information system like a college events website. Along with the new ideas that I have
already stated about advertising, I think that as the Co-Curricular Vice President I would try to introduce new ideas into
Solidarity Week to create more campus involvement as well as campus and community interaction. Also, I would be more than
willing to listen and include any other ideas students might bring to me.

2. I believe my biggest weakness is that I have been fairly inactive with the Union Board so far. However,
my inexperience should serve the student body well because I believe I can bring new ideas and insights to the
board. The experiences I have had so far have been my involvement on the 900 Room committee and the Artist
Series committee. From these committees, I have received a glimpse of the work required to run a successful Union. However,
I believe it is my strong desire to make a long-term commitment to the Union that best prepares me for
the job. I enter this election knowing that this post will require a great deal of time and effort, but
I look forward to the challenge that it offers and feel certain that I can do a good job.

3. My job as Co-Curricular Vice President will involve working along with the Union president and the other vice president
in order to fill the Union Board, and then working with those committee chairs and members to carry out the
business of the Union. I believe I am the best candidate for the job because I have the leadership, teamwork,
and support skills that it takes to get everyone moving towards the common goal of a smooth functioning Union.

4. I think that the key to student interest in the Union is an exciting and diverse schedule of events
and activities. For the most part, these activities are planned by the committee chairs, who are appointed by the Union
Board President and Vice Presidents. My role in helping shape the board will be crucial to the success of the
board when it comes to student involvement. If we have a group of dynamic, enthusiastic committee chairs, this will ensure
active student interest in the Union.

5. During my almost three years at Davidson, I have served on several Union Board Committees to make sure that
they have the support and resources they need to carry their activities out successfully. If I can help the Union
Board Committees to do their jobs more effectively, then this will create an atmosphere where committees themselves become forums for
innovation. While I am a member of Union Board Committees, my lack of experience serving on the Union Board itself
is probably my biggest weakness. This means that I will need to actively seek out the input of more experienced
people. I have been on the Artists’ Series Committee, and...I am currently a member of the Films Committee and the
Woman’s Issues Committee. I am also an avid attendee of Union events. I feel I am qualified for this post
because of my organizational ability and my commitment to the mission of the Union. Just this past weekend, I was
responsible for overseeing a group of volunteers, procuring food, managing set-up and clean-up, and doing crowd control. This sort of
organizational experience is what I will be able to draw on when planning events such as Solidarity Week.

My job as Union Board Vice President is more of a coordinating position than it is a role to develop
new ideas. My function will be to encourage committee chairs to pursue new and exciting ventures. This flow of communication
can be a real asset to the development of the Board.

The Co-Curricular VP is responsible for presenting a diverse array of enriching speakers, activities, and events for the college community.
The job of the Union Board Co-Curricular VP entails maintaining open lines of communication between the committees I oversee, ensuring
that the Board itself functions smoothly, and planning next year’s Solidarity Week. I feel I am best qualified for this
position because of my organizational ability and my commitment to providing diverse social options for the students of Davidson.

I would like to increase campus-wide awareness of Union Board events through more aggressive advertising, especially on a personal level
or word of mouth. Also, I think often members of Patterson Court feel removed from Union Board events, as if
the North-Campus and South-Campus social events took place separately. I would like to include these students by having more co-sponsored
events in order to allow everyone to become more familiar with social options.

Although my official experience is not as elaborate as most Davidson students, I feel I make up for that in
enthusiasm. I have been involved in the Executive Board of Warner Hall House, which has helped me learn how a
student-run organization works. Also, in participating in several Leadership Universities and retreats, I have come away with invaluable skills in
motivation and communication, which will allow me to be a better leader in the community and involve more students.

The event that I will focus my energies on is a campus-wide Field Day to start the year off. The
teams would consist of students from all classes and willing professors. There is nothing like a little physical activity to
draw members of our community together and get people excited about being back at Davidson.

My biggest weakness is a lack of self-assurance. This causes me to seek recognition and assurance outside myself. The student
body will benefit from my weakness because I will apply myself whole-heartedly to my position in attempts to satisfy and
surpass the expectations of the Davidson College Community.

A Union Board Vice President has the challenging job of trying to attract students from all areas of interest to
become more involved in our community activities. The Social VP should make the student body aware of the amazing opportunities
that Davidson has to offer, not only in its academics but also within our diverse student body and personalities. I
am the best candidate for the job because I have enthusiasm, energy, and humor to motivate people. Also, my ears
are always open to any concerns or suggestions.
