Mission accomplished: men’s cross country make

By Kerry Gannon
Staff Writer

The 1998 version of the men’s cross-country team knew it had witnessed an incredible season when it stepped on the line of the Southern Conference Championships this past Saturday, evident in a number of personal records, unprecedented team finishes, and a new school record set thus far. But the nine harriers also knew that would mean nothing without a strong performance against the league’s best.

Entering the season as the No. 8 preseason pick, the men accepted the challenge despite many letdowns and disappointments in years past—only to come through with the greatest performance in the history of Davidson men’s cross country. Led again by the incredible legs of junior Brent Ferrell, the men finished fifth at the 1998 Southern Conference meet, with last year’s eighth-place finish as (not-yet-forgotten-but-now-distant) a memory in the minds of the runners. The men scored 126 points, narrowly beating the Furman men by a single point to secure the defeat of seven scholarship teams. UT-Chattanooga, taking six of the top 10 (and All-Conference) places, easily won the title, running away with 24 points. East Tennessee State, still feared as a powerhouse despite their uncharacteristic season, finished a surprising second with 45 points, with their top 5 all finishing among the first 15 competitors. Appalachian State, last year’s champion, was third (99 points) while Western Carolina finished in fourth (108 points).

In lieu of the temperature at race time (81 degrees and very humid) and the challenging home course, Ferrell finished in 17th place with a time of 26:49 over the 8K hilly course. He proved yet again why he is the best Davidson College male XC runner ever, leading the team for the sixth straight time this season and guiding them to their record-breaking performance. Junior William Isenhour continued his late season tear, following Ferrell in 22nd place in a time of 27:08. No doubt Isenhour’s ability to regain the form evident in his freshman year helped the men the past few meets, including his performance Saturday. Senior Josh Cookson once again supported the team.

Women’s soccer gears up for Southern Conference tournament

By ALISON KALET
Sports Editor

Although the Wildcats would have liked to have ended their season with a win, their loss last Thursday to UNC Asheville (10-5-1) was a great warmup for the kind of competition they will face in the upcoming Southern Conference Tournament which starts this Tuesday night at 7 pm at home against 5th seeded Wofford College.

In their last regular season game, the Wildcats fell to a solid UNC Asheville team by a close 2 to 1 margin. When junior Ginny Dye scored her seventh goal of the season 10 minutes into the game, it appeared as if the Wildcats might be headed for a victory. Dye, the Wildcats' leading scorer, netted the goal off an assist by fellow junior Kate McKnight. Overall, Davidson played an outstanding first half, forcing the UNCA goalkeeper to make five tough saves while the solid play of the defense prevented Wildcat keeper, sophomore Winnie Corrigan, from having to make a single save. The Wildcats headed into the second period with a 1-0 lead.

Davidson continued their solid play in the second half and held their opponent scoreless for over 15 minutes. However, at the 61:52 mark, Amanda Wilkinson of UNCA tied the game. Neither team was able to score for the remainder of regulation and the game headed into overtime tied at one. In overtime, the Wildcats fought hard, but three minutes into the extra session UNCA scored off a long shot. UNCA won the game 2 to 1.

Despite the loss, the Lady Wildcats still finished the regular season with a solid 7 and 12 overall record and an impressive 5 and 3 conference standing. This 5 and 3 record was good enough to earn the Wildcats the fourth seed in the upcoming Southern Conference Tournament. The single-elimination tournament starts Tuesday night at 7 pm at home when the Wildcats take on Wofford College.

Health Care Policy
Nonprofit Sector

A Representative from the JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT will visit your campus on:

DATE: November 3, 1998
TIME: 10:00 a.m.
LOCATION: College Union Conference Room

ALL STUDENTS
ALL YEARS

...is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs. We offer a 2-year Master in Public Administration in International Development (MPA/ID), a 2-year Master in Public Policy (MPP), and a 2-year Master in Public Policy in Urban Planning (MPP/UP) with concentrations offered in:
* Business and Government Policy
* Crime and Criminal Justice
* Environment and Natural Resources
* Human Resources, Labor and Education
* Housing, Urban Development and Transportation
* International Security and Political Economy
* International Trade and Finance
* Political and Economic Development
* Press, Politics and Public Policy
* Science, Technology and Public Policyon fifth seed Wofford College. If the Wildcats win, they will then travel to Furman College to play either top-seeded UNC Greensboro or eighth-seeded East Tennessee State in the tournament semi-finals.

Women’s Cross Country
By Kelly Kiefer
Guest Writer

After the dust had settled on the trails behind Baker Sports Complex Saturday morning, only one question remained for the Lady Wildcats. Had they, in fact, finally outraced Furman, earning a 4th place finish in the Southern Conference Cross-Country Championships? They accomplished this goal in strong fashion, running 27:21 and placing 25th. Junior Pat Burchett outsprinted two Furman runners to finish in 31st with a time of 27:34, providing the team with the necessary places to escape with a victory over the Paladins. Junior Thomas McElveen rounded out the top 5 in 27:55, finishing in 35th. Nic Crider of UT-Chattanooga was the individual champion, running an eye-opening 25:24 to claim his third straight title. This feat is surely evident of his prowess in the conference and lends support to his chances of qualifying for the NCAA Championships later this month. Freshman Dan Gibson and Senior Keith Gordon ran 28:09 (39th) and 28:53 (51st) respectively for the Wildcats. Gibson closes out his season as the best recruit in head coach Gary Andrew’s tenure since the arrival of Cookson in 1994. Junior Scott Hutchins ran 29:16 to place 61st, while senior Davey Bacon ended his career as a Davidson harrier in 29:48, placing 72nd to round out the team’s competitors. The men close out the season at the NCAA District III Championships November 14 at Furman University in Greenville, SC. This meet acts as the district’s qualifying meet for the NCAA Championships, covering 10K as the distance. Many of the mid-South’s best teams will be present, including representatives of the ACC, SEC, and Southern conferences. The men look to end their incredible season on a high note and complete the foundation that has been laid for future teams.

WALK For CR Nov. 8 JUST DO IT.

Cross Country: from dream to destiny the team vocalized August 18th, the first day of preseason? The results reflected a race that came down to the wire. Davidson edged Furman by 3 points, transforming a dream into reality for the Wildcats who have shown steady improvement this season. Relying on a strategy that emphasized team running (sticking together as a group), Davidson finished 4th out of 12 teams behind UT-Chattanooga, Appalachian State, and Western Carolina. This finish is by far the best Conference result in the program’s history. In fact, the previous best performance for the Wildcats was in 1992, when Davidson placed 5th out of 8 schools. Perhaps the winning recipe for the team this year has been the combination of senior experience and young talent, and a passion for racing highlighted by individual efforts Saturday. Wildcat frontrunner sophomore Smyth Bitter ran another incredible race, finishing 14th overall with a time of 19:41 for the 5K. Freshwoman Lucy Billingsly improved 50 seconds on this course and ran an impressive 20:11, finishing 2nd for the Wildcats and 23rd overall, earning Athlete of the Week in the process. Senior Suzy Burr, freshwoman Caroline Little, and sophomore Clare Frey epitomized team cooperation, motivating each other during the final mile to finish 25th, 29th, and 32nd respectively. Following Frey were sophomores Jill Neumayer, seniors Beth Brewster, Jenny Klotz, and Kelly Kiefer for Davidson. In cross-country, the top 5 runners’ places are added for the team score, and Davidson ended with 113 points with an impressive top 5 split of 48 seconds. Commenting on Saturday’s achievements, Coach Thomas Cason said, “In August at pre-season, our team mission began as we set out to become a top 4 team in this conference. Saturday was magical. All the miles and hard work finally paid off. It was an awesome team effort. Together everyone achieves more, and this team is living proof of that!” With spirits still high, the team will continue training these next 2 weeks for the Southeast Regional Championships at Furman University. Words have already been exchanged as Davidson aims to repeat and even improve on Saturday’s performance, and perhaps rewrite history once again.

Schedule of Athletic Events For 11/4 - 11/10
11/4 Davidson vs. Princeton
11/5 Davidson vs. VASDA
11/6 Volleyball — 7:00 PM Davidson vs. College of Charleston
11/7 11:30 PM Swimming — 12:00 PM Davidson vs. Richmond
Volleyball — 12:00 PM Davidson vs. Georgia Southern
Football — 1:30 PM Davidson vs. Centre College
Promotion: Flickerball Challenge Finals
Men’s Final - Women’s Final — Rusk vs. Turner
11/8 Women’s Basketball (Exhibition) — 4:00 PM Davidson vs. Ft. Bragg
Volleyball — 7:00 PM
Men’s Basketball (Exhibition) — 7:30 PM
Southern Conference Men’s Soccer Semi’s
Southern Conf. Men’s Soccer Final
Pika vs. Indep. ~2:00 PM