THE DAVIDSONIAN

Libersat, Albert surprise at SoCon wrestling tournament

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

The Wildcat wrestling team, arguably the best squad in the past decade, capped off the 1997-98 season at the Southern
Conference tournament over spring break. Predictably, Davidson’s team of non-scholarship athletes was overmatched by the Southern Conference powers. Davidson finished
last of the six teams that entered.

Several of the personal performances by Davidson were not as dismal as the team’s finish. Davidson entered wrestlers in every
class except for 134, which has remained vacant for most of the season.

Miles Cox entered the 118 class as the sixth seed. He was defeated by the third seed, Patrick Luke of
UTC, in the first round and lost a decision to fifth-seeded Tremayne Austin of VMI in the consolation bracket.

Dan Carman was given a five seed in the 126 class. Like Cox, he lost to two higher-seeded wrestlers in
two rounds.

One of the best performances of the day was that of Anthony Albert in the 142 class. Albert was given
a five seed and pulled an upset in the first round by defeating the fourth seed, Chad Brittingham of the
Citadel. Albert then faced the top-seeded Rob Daly of Appalachian in the second round and lost in a decision. Albert
then faced the sixth-seeded wrestler in the finals, whom he defeated with a narrow 11-9 decision. In the finals of
the consolation bracket, Albert lost to the second-seeded wrestler to claim fourth in his weight class.

Ian Kaplan, easily the ‘Cats best wrestler this season, entered the tournament as a two seed. He had a bye
in the quarterfinals and was upset in the semis by the third seed, Trey Burlingame of UNCG. Kaplan then entered
the consolation bracket. He handily defeated his opponents in the consolation semis and finals to claim third place.

Ronald Williams wrestled at 158 for Davidson. The fifth seed, Williams lost in the first round by a close 6-4
decision and then lost in the consolation semifinals as well.

Rookie phenom Jeff Libersat was the biggest surprise of the day for the Wildcats. He entered the 167 class as
a five seed but exceeded all expectations. Libersat upset the four seed in the first round with a dominant 11-6
decision, but lost in the semis to the top-seeded wrestler. In the consolation semis, Libersat won another dominant match, this
one a 15-7 major decision. Libersat faced the two seed in the consolation finals. In an overtime nail-biter, Libersat upset
his opponent with a 6-4 decision. Libersat claimed third in his class and finished higher than any other fifth or
sixth-seeded wrestler in the tournament.

In the 177 class, Bo Bickerstaff was given the six seed for Davidson. He faced the third seed in the
first round and lost to move into the consolation bracket, where he was defeated by the fourth seed in the
semis.

Sixth-seeded 190 wrestler Bill Cameron followed the same path as Bickerstaff, losing in the first round to the third seed
and in the consolation semis to the fourth.

Senior co-captain Ben Wall entered the heavyweight class as the five seed. Facing fourth-seeded Pete Harold of UTC in the
first round, Wall lost by a 6-1 decision. In the consolation bracket, Wall lost to the third-seeded Craig Stephenson of
the Citadel, who went on to win the bracket.

With the exception of Kaplan, the tournament marked the end of the season and for some the end of a
career as a Davidson athlete. Kaplan will continue wrestling in national competition this coming weekend.

Golf places fifth of eight teams in opener

Track team blanked at conference meetBriAN MAYERHOFER Sports Editor

The men’s golf team opened its season over Spring Break at the Max Ward Invitational. The tournament was hosted by
Elon College at the Alamance Country Club. Davidson finished fifth out of eight Division I teams. Out of eighteen total
teams, Davidson finished seventh. UNC-Greensboro won the tournament with a total score of 606. Samford finished three shots back with
a 609. Davidson’s combined team score was 627.

The highlight of the two-day tournament was the exceptional play of senior Jason Lina. On the par 71 course, Lina
was tied for the lead with two other golfers after shooting an opening round of 73. In the second and
final round, Lina shot 75 to finish second behind Samford’s Matt Plothow. Plothow shot 74-73 to win the individual title.
Only Plothow’s 73 and a 74 by Alex McMichael bested Lina’s score for the final round.

The rest of the Davidson team didn’t fare quite so well. After Lina, the best the Wildcats could manage was
two players tied for 33rd place. Junior David Alexander shot 78-80, while freshman Austin Zeigler shot 77-81. Since this was
the opening tournament of the season, it can be expected that the Wildcats will improve. This should be the case
as several freshmen will play integral roles. At Elon, freshmen Austin Zeigler, Sean Davidson, and Scott Shupe all played in
the starting lineup. Their youth is countered by the veteran leadership of veterans Lina, Alexander, Andy McDaniel, and Alby Toto.

By Brian MAYERHOFER Sports Editor

The Davidson men’s track team ended the indoor season on a disappointing note. They finished in seventh place out of
seven teams. The Wildcat men failed to score any points in the meet. While the Wildcats were not expected to
win in the tough Southern Conference, a better showing was expected. Still, this does not mean that there wasn’t a
share of good performances.

The highlight of the meet for the team came in the Distance Medley Relay. The team of Brent Ferrell, Ade
Artis, Keith Gordon, and Thomas McElveen set a new school record in the event. Their combined time was 10:53.97. Ferrell
ran a 3:16.4 for 1200 meters, Ade Artis ran :52.4 for 400 meters, Keith Gordon ran 2:09.9, and Thomas McElveen
anchored the team with a 4:35.2 for 1600 meters. This time was good enough for seventh at the meet.

The performance of the DMR was equaled by the 4X400 team. The team consisted of Keith Chapman, Addam Marcotte, Ade
Artis, and Karim Lawrence. They also finished seventh in their event with a time of 3:33.96. Keith Chapman also had
a strong individual showing as he placed ninth in the 800. Other top ten finishes came from Brent Ferrell in
the 5000 and Matt Brown in the Long Jump.

Things did not get any easier for the men’s track team in their first indoor meet. On Saturday, at UNCC,
they competed against the likes of UNCC, N.C. State, Wake Forest, and Chapel Hill. Davidson only managed two top-ten finishes
on the day. The 4X100 team of Steve Hsieh, Adam Marcotte, Karim Lawrence, and Ikenna Myers posted a time of
:44.97. This time was good enough for a seventh place finish. Tim O’Keefe placed ninth in the Steeplechase as he
ran a 10:38.71. In the 3000 meters, Brent Ferrell, with his time of 8:58.07, made the school’s top ten list
for the event.

GET A JUMP ON TUESDAY MORNING. Join the Davidsonian layout staff. Call Randy (x6667) for more information and current openings.

STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 1 Free Session With Valid Student I-D.

GOLDEN AGES TANNING SPA Now OPEN! (704) 895-2337

1998 Model JK/Ergoline Tanning Beds 38 Bulb, 3 high pressure facial tanning beds LOCATED NEXT TO DAVINO’S IN SADDLER SQUARE

NORTH CAROLINA LICENSED AND CERTIFIED OPERATOR 12 PRIVATE, SPACIOUS TANNING ROOMS IN-BOOTH INTERCOMS VARIOUS TANNING PACKAGES EXCLUSIVE TANNING ACCESSORIES
