THE DAVIDSONIAN
Arts & Living
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1998

Novelist Sheri Reynolds to read from “A Gracious Plenty” in 900 Room
By Kiernan McGorty
College Relations

Novelist Sheri Reynolds, a 1989 Davidson graduate and honoree of Oprah Winfrey’s Book Club, will speak at Davidson College on Thursday, Feb. 19. The free public reading from her newest novel “A Gracious Plenty” will begin at 8:15 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union.

“The Rapture of Canaan,” Reynolds’s second novel, caught Oprah’s attention and became an instant best-seller after the TV host named it as a selection for her on-air book club. Oprah called Reynolds’s book “very fulfilling.” “The Rapture of Canaan” is a coming-of-age story set in the restrictive but loving world of a Pentecostal community. Ninah is the young heroine whose life is molded by her grandparents and the teachings of their “fire and brimstone” religion. She makes a mistake that brings the wrath of the community down upon her, but it also provides the impetus for her to take charge of her future.

Reynolds dedicated her highly acclaimed first book “Bitterroot Landing” to three Davidson College faculty and staff members — English Professors Gail Gibson and Libby Mills, and student services staff member Ruth Pittard. Reynolds currently teaches a graduate fiction course and undergraduate literature courses at Old Dominion University. She received her M.F.A. from Virginia Commonwealth University and has also taught at the College of William and Mary. For more information on Reynolds, contact the College Union at 892-2140.

Horoscopes
Brought to you by: Wertzel N. Snertzel

Aquarius (Jan. 20 - Feb. 18)
Lucky Musical: “Hair.”

Pisces (Feb. 19 - Mar. 20)
Lucky Letter of the Hawaiian Alphabet: E.

Aries (Mar. 21 - Apr. 19)
Lucky Postal Stamp: young Elvis.

Taurus (Apr. 20 - May 20)
Your BTI phone bill will be larger than the national debt. Sucks to be you.

Gemini (May 21 - June 20)
Your respective other has decided to talk to your best friend. You will find them eating at the Commons together, sharing Student Steak and fries. Grab a knife; do what you will.

Cancer (June 21 - July 22)
You will get an urge to write down your innermost desires and then mail them to your parents.

Leo (July 23 - Aug. 22)
Like the car you will be very popular. However, also like the car, you will fall apart at various times of the day due to a lack of oil. Lucky Retail Store: Radio Shack.

Virgo (Aug. 23 - Sept. 22)
Your roommate will finally jump. Don’t follow. Congrats on the 4.0. Lucky Relationship-type Person: anyone with some power in their organization.

Libra (Sept. 23 - Oct. 22)
Only good things can happen to you. Why? Because you are always right. Don’t let anyone tell you that you're wrong, ‘cause they're wrong. Lucky Literary Device: the Appositive.

Scorpio (Oct. 23 - Nov. 21)
El Nino will target your 10-page poli-sci paper for its next Spring Shower. A world of opportunities are available out there, except for you. “Would you like fries with that?”

Sagittarius (Nov. 22 - Dec. 21)
The Commons forecasts great amounts of mashed potatoes this week. Build a mountain out of them.

Capricorn (Dec. 22 - Jan. 19)
You know that smell in your closet? We know what it is. You don’t. Lucky Monetary Denomination: the Susan B. Anthony Dollar.

The gospel of safe sex
By Mitch Shores
Student Health Advisor

It’s that time again, boys and girls! I hope you all had a nice weekend, and I hope that your week is starting off well, too. We have gotten a few questions at the last minute this week, and I will be the first to promise you that they will be addressed in next week’s article.

Okay, so I am grasping desperately deep into my mind to find something to talk about this week. You have probably talked about sex so many times in your life by now that it is becoming very boring to you, but if there was anything that could keep my interest more, then I would be flabbergasted. To me, you cannot talk about sex enough, so here it goes...

Sex, as you all know, is a very beautiful thing, and we should cherish the act. I personally feel that there is only one thing that we should consider more important, and that is protection. The first thing we must say, and I am screaming this loud and clear, is that abstinence is the safest sex there is. The word abstinence is almost synonymous with the Ten Commandments here in North Carolina, and it is very important to abstain from sex if you totally want to avoid any risk of acquiring a sexually transmitted disease. However, if you have already taken the plunge into the ocean of hedonism and you cannot find your way back to the celibate shore, then I would suggest you hold tightly to the Safe-Sex Lifeboat. There are a lot of different options you can take when considering which paddle to use on your Safe-Sex Lifeboat, if you feel sure of your partner — which you never should unless you have...Both been checked out at the local free clinic. Now, when I say checked out, I mean you have been through the STD test from hell. All programs where the Sex Goddess and her slaves to you will have wanted everything prodded, poked, groped, and swabbed to ensure that you are “safe” for the one you love. If you have had sex, then I would suggest, to be on the safe side, that you have this done. If you would like more information about the testing sites in your area (this sounds like one of those SAT pamphlets), then you can call Mrs. Georgia Ringle (x2902) for more details. 

Back to the Lifeboat — the most effective method to prevent STD transmission, aside from abstinence, is the use of condoms. There are condoms for her and condoms for him. There are an array of colors, scents, and flavors available for that splash of kink deep inside of all of you. It is also helpful to use the ones that are prepared with lubrication and spermicide. For oral sex, you should always use your helpful little dental dam, and you should all know how to use those by now. If you are wondering where you can find condoms, I just found out that there was a shipment recently. Beg your Hall Counselors and RAs to have a condom program on your hall. You should also attend the programs given by the FCREW. Let me commend you, FCREW, for starting the healthy trend of having condoms at your events. Now if worse comes to worst, you can find the emergency supply in your hall medicine cabinets. 

So here you have it: a reminder to have safe sex and some helpful information on how to keep sex safe from the beginning to the end. Tune in next week for an article I am looking forward to writing: The Libido Killers!!!! If you should have any questions or comments, please write to: The Student Body c/o Mitch Shores PO Box 4180 Davidson NC 28036.

PHOTOGRAPHY
- COMMERCIAL
- AERIAL
- BROCHURES
- MURALS
- INDUSTRIAL
- ADVERTISING
- CATALOGS
- PUBLISHING
- PRODUCT
- PROMOTIONAL
- DISPLAYS
- STUDIO ON-SITE

WARREN STUDIO
892-7166

WEDDING SUPPLIES
WEDDINGS OF DISTINCTION
9725 OAK ST. CORNELIUS

Dark Room Space for Rent

T.J. Reddy Exhibit
The art equivalent to e.e. cummings. All week long. 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. in the College Union.

Ralph W. Ketner
The former chairman of Food Lion, hear him roar. 7:00 - 8:15 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Jumpin’ Java/Poetry
Free newtons with prose. 7:30 p.m. at the Outpost.

Roger Brown & Friends Exhibit
More art, by Roger and his friends. All week long. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. in the VAC.

21-Year-Old-Night
Drink. Because you can. 10:00 p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

CROP Lunch
Reap the bountiful harvest, sow some friends. 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“How and When We Die”
Morbid, huh? 7:00-8:15 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Cheap Donuts
The perfect pence for frugal people. 8:00 a.m-5:00 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

Solidarity Week
I think we're alone now. All week long. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. in the Union Pit.

Beaver College Study Abroad
Uh, you said beaver, heh heh. 1:15 - 2:15 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

All they told us
10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Room in the Inn
Away in a manger. Saturday night in Johnston Gym.

Pets
Black History Month Event. That's Community Dinner/Barbecue. Eat warm shredded swine. 12:30 p.m. at the Ada Jenkins Center.

Juggling
The only class where you can throw things at the teacher. 3:00 - 5:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Jumpin’ Java
Caffeine. 7:30 p.m.- 12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

TUESDAY

WEDNESDAY

SUNDAY

MONDAY

Visiting High School Students
Pre-frosh here for talks. Through Friday. 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. in the Home Room.

Girl Scout Cookie Sale
You know you want them. 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. on the Union Patio; if rain, Union Lobby.

Meditation Class
Find your inner self. 5:30 - 6:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

Keepin’ It Real
Check it out. 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

Is Homosexuality Genetic?
I don’t know. Find out. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“Chasing Amy”
Run, Amy, run. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

DC Symphony Concert
Play, symphony, play. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the DCPC Sanctuary.

Sheri Reynolds
A kick-ass book reading. 8:15 - 9:45 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday Afternoon Club
Alcohol awareness week is over; let's drink to that! 4:30 - 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Arts Ensemble Talent Show
Groups of artists display their talents. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

“Chasing Amy”
Haven't you caught her yet? 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Classical Indian Music Concert
Get down with your bad Hindu/Buddhist self. 4:00-7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Outpost Talent Show
Break out the Village People costumes. 9:00 - 11:00 p.m. in the Outpost.

University of Edinburgh Study Abroad
Chew the haggis, aye. 12:00 - 1:30 p.m. in the Union Lobby.

University of Edinburgh Info Meeting
Shut your cakehole and listen! 3:00 - 4:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Carl Ernst
Call Laki Sabaratnam for information. 7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“Peer Gynt”
The National Theatre of the Deaf perform. 8:15 - 10:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Davidsonian Meeting
It's on the schedule, but we won't be there. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Wilson Room.