Pennsylvania trio taking Wildcats to new heights

Healthy Kerry Brown, Montrella making most of court time.

By ANDREW FULFORD
Staff Writer

Stand up and take notice. Women’s basketball has truly arrived at Davidson. With a record of 17-8 and the third
seed in the Southern Conference tournament this weekend in Greensboro, it is hard to believe the program started from scratch
just five years ago, following a seven-year hiatus due to College budget cuts.

The rebuilding of a program that was expected to take several years to become competitive all changed in 1995 when
three highly-recruited talents from Pennsylvania committed to Davidson. Jessica Montrella and twins Jamie and Kerry Brown are juniors now and
make up a crucial part of the rapid rise of Davidson women’s basketball. Individually, each player has an instant impact
on the court and commands the attention of opposing defenses. But fans may never know how good they can be
because the Browns and Montrella have yet to complete a season together. In fact, they never even played a successive
stretch together until this season’s pre-conference games. The Wildcats were 5-4 during that stretch, including an 18-point thrashing of ACC
member Georgia Tech on Dec. 3 and a two-point loss to then-10th-ranked Vanderbilt on Nov. 14.

This year, it’s Jamie Brown’s turn to cheer from the sidelines. After being the only member of the trio to
play injury-free last year, averaging 12.3 points per game and picking up the slack for her ailing teammates, she went
down this season on Dec. 30 with a stress fracture in her right hip. Though she has made significant strides
to return to the Wildcats this season, it is not likely to happen. With the loss of a performer whom
coach John Filar has described as “the top player in the conference in the open court,” the Wildcats needed to
step up. Sister Kerry and Montrella were ready and willing.

Though she will never admit it, Kerry Brown has come into her own this season. She has shown elements of
brilliance the past two years but has not been able to stay healthy. She played in the first 15 games
of her freshman season, starting nine of them. The same game that Jamie returned from a stress fracture of her
shin, Kerry left with a stress fracture of her tibia. Kerry started strong last year as a sophomore, averaging 6.9
points and 4.2 rebounds per game going into semester break. During the break, though, she was diagnosed with mononucleosis and
missed much of the remainder of the year. She returned for the final few games but played sparingly to prevent
a relapse of her illness.

For Montrella, the tale sounds all too familiar. After a promising freshman campaign in which she started 22 of 26
games and tied for third in the league in blocked shots, Montrella was poised for a standout sophomore season. But
she played in only 15 contests last season due to a battle with mono and a recurring injury. While last
year was a personal disappointment, Montrella believes that adversity made her stronger and more committed than ever to play every
game with a sense of urgency. “Last year made me realize the importance of the moment,” Montrella said in a
recent interview. “I have less than two years of basketball left and want to give it all I have. I
want to leave everything on the court.”

A fan favorite, that new determination is evident in her play. Although she discredits the importance of personal achievements, Montrella
passed the 600-point mark for her career earlier this season with a 17-point game against Georgia Southern. Montrella has been
a point of strength for the Wildcats this year, taking her game to a new level. The Pennsylvania trio and
the rest of the Wildcats recorded the 400th win in the history of women’s basketball at Davidson with Saturday’s victory
over Appalachian St., and have a bona fide chance to win the conference tournament. With a title, the squad would
become Davidson’s first-ever women’s basketball team to advance to the NCAA tournament.

The Keystone State has lived up to its name, giving Davidson women’s basketball not one, but three building blocks to
a successful program. They will look back someday and realize they were the start of something special. But there’s no
time now. They’ve got a championship to win.

Wildcats aiming high

Davidson lost to the Mountaineers by six points earlier in the year at Boone, but ended the regular season Saturday
at Belk Arena with a solid double-digit victory over Appalachian. With a win, the Wildcats would likely face a rubber-match
reunion with their Valentine’s Day ex—the hometown Spartans—in Saturday’s semifinals at Greensboro Coliseum. A potential three-day sprint to the title
would most likely end in a showdown with top-seeded Georgia Southern, which fell to Davidson during the Wildcats’ six-game winning
streak in late January and early February.

“We haven’t been swept by anybody and we are playing well,” said superstar point guard Jen O’Brien, who was nominated
for All-American honors earlier this month. “I’m pumped up. We’re all pumped up.”

It’s no mystery, though, that the Wildcats are playing minus a critical link—guard Jamie Brown, who was diagnosed in late
December with a season-ending stress fracture in her hip. The 5-foot-11 junior, who garnered preseason all-conference honors in October, recorded
a double-double in her last full game at East Tennessee St. before succumbing to injury. But the empty slots in
the stat sheets that she left have been more than adequately filled by the likes of Danielle Mall, Katy Kamp,
and Jamie’s sister, Kerry.Brown. The healthy Brown has notched seven double-doubles this season. As Danielle Mall, Katy Kamp, and Kerry
Brown have stepped in to fill the rebounding and scoring voids left by Jamie Brown, specific roles have developed for
each player on the team. There are shooters, slashers, rebounders, and practice players. Indeed, Filar said, “What we don’t have
is people playing outside of what they can do.” “Everyone is filling their roles,” O’Brien added. “The difference is that
no one is really worried about themselves right now. It is all about team.”

While Wildcat fans witness on a game-by-game basis O’Brien’s spectacular moves in the lane, Brown’s smothering defense, and center Jennie
Vanlerberghe’s strong finishes inside, they don’t see what each member of the team brings to practice. “Every single day, people
are coming to play in practice,” Filar said. “Last year it was up and down, but this year people are
coming to play. Other teams don’t have that, and that is what will give us the win. If we want
it bad enough, we are going to get it.”

Hard work or not, what any team needs going into a tournament is momentum. Though it at first appeared as
tragic, the loss to UNCG may turn out to be beneficial — a mere bump in the road to March
Madness. After wins over conference rivals Appalachian and Furman this past week, it seems the Wildcats are back on track,
en route to another trademark winning string. “Anybody can get hot for three games,” Filar said. And in the Southern
Conference this year, an ultra-competitive league in which anyone can beat anyone on any given night, momentum is key.

By David Rosenberg
Staff Writer

Jen O’Brien would write a horrible autobiography. Not due to lack of writing material, of course, but because of her
unwillingness to speak about herself. The book would be packed with gratitude and smiles, but no mention of personal achievements.
“Jen simply refuses compliments,” coach John Filar said. “She takes the credit and then bounces it off to her teammates.
That is what you need a point guard to do.” But O’Brien takes modesty to an unknown echelon.

Her assists total for this season ranks sixth in the nation, and as a sophomore, she is already the school’s
all-time leader in the category. The second-leading scorer in the Southern Conference, O’Brien ranks in the nation’s top 20 in
three-point percentage. She is also one of the league’s most feared defenders, ranking first in steals with 3.7 a game.
And she was nominated for All-American honors a few weeks ago. Yet amid all this praise, she remains humble. At
the mention of awards she has won, such as Connecticut Player of the Year in high school, she smiles and
shrugs. “It’s a small state,” she said. And she will quickly insist that she could not have attained her success
without the help of her teammates.

On the floor, O’Brien appears to be a completely different person from her modest demeanor. She runs the floor with
authority, keeps the crowd at attention with her quick moves to the basket, and flicks passes that even opposing coaches
could applaud. “She is a terrific leader,” guard Jamie Brown said. “She knows when people are frustrated with their games,
when people are feeling left out. And then she knows that, as a point guard, she needs to keep people
happy and get those frustrated players the ball.”

Last season, O’Brien split time with senior Monica Winter and averaged 8.2 points per game. Was it a surprise then,
that the sophomore came out against 10th-ranked Vanderbilt on Nov. 14 and exploded for a then-career-high 19 points? “No,” Filar
answered. “We all knew that this whole year would be a coming out party for Jen. At the end of
last season, I said to Jen, ‘This is your team now for three years. You can take it in whatever
direction you want to.’” And Davidson is moving full speed ahead in the direction of a conference championship. The regular
season ended as the winningest season in the history of Davidson women’s basketball. This year’s 17-win regular season makes last
year’s celebrated 15 victories appear average. O’Brien has been at the center of the program’s continual rise.

“Last year, there were times when she was the best basketball player on the floor,” Filar recalled. “She would have
great games, but then she’d go back into her shell. She didn’t want to step on anyone’s toes — she
didn’t think it was the place of a freshman to do that. But this year, she has a great amount
of inner confidence — an inner confidence that she won’t show to many people.”

While she does not have the personality to “step on anyone’s toes,” she does know when to take the game
into her own hands. Saturday against Appalachian in a game with tournament-seeding implications, the game’s outcome was still in question
with five minutes left. The lead changed hands with almost every possession, and the Mountaineers smelled an upset victory. O’Brien
decided to heat up. In a span of 1:30, she was personally responsible for 11 straight Wildcat points, whether it
be through slashing drives, assists, or free throws. (O’Brien went 13-for-14 from the line.) And with 3:30 remaining, O’Brien knocked
down a bomb from a full two feet beyond the three-point arc, bringing an excited home crowd to its feet.

Most players that have accomplished what O’Brien has would be greedy for even more. More minutes. More shots. More points.
More numbers. Yet her goal remains fixed on winning a conference tournament championship. “I’m not the type of player that
needs all those accolades,” said O’Brien. “We set the goal as a team to win the conference. That’s my goal.”
