10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1998

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

The first few weeks of the 1998-99 campaign proved to be a dizzying roller-coaster ride for the Wildcat women. Landmark victories against Wake Forest University and the University of North Carolina-Charlotte offered glimpses of brilliant potential. But these wins were accompanied by some early-season struggles—namely, a disappointing performance at the pre-season NIT Tournament and a conference-opening upset defeat at the hands of Chattanooga, a team expected to reside near the basement of the Southern Conference this season.

Davidson entered this weekend’s tournament with a 2-3 overall record and an 0-1 mark in Southern Conference play. But head coach John Filar has seen some promising signs in these early-season competitions and is confident that the turbulence will subside, giving way to smoother sailing and perhaps even a fourth consecutive record-breaking season.

“If the way we’ve responded after two big losses means anything, then it’s going to be a really good season. To bounce back after the Southwest Missouri State game to beat Wake, and then from the Chattanooga game to beat Charlotte is promising.”

It looks like that glaring headline in the Davidson College viewbook was right: Character counts. Filar and his ‘Cats have capitalized upon the team’s never-say-die attitude and consistent diligence on the practice floor. Jamie Brown described the team’s ability to remain resilient through the rocky beginning.

“We were all very upset about the SMS game, it was a poor showing. But we knew that there was a lot more we had to do, and it didn’t seem hopeless. We still had a lot of confidence in the players we have and the things our team can do. We weren’t about to give everything up over one game.”

November 17
Davidson 82 Wake Forest 75

Senior captains Jen O’Brien and Jamie Brown led the way with 21 and 19 points, respectively, as the Wildcats rolled to a key victory over an ACC opponent. Jess Montrella added a double-double (10 points and 11 rebounds).

“It was huge,” beamed Jamie Brown. “To have a win over a team like Wake Forest is such a great opportunity for us to show that the Southern Conference can play with teams in the top conferences.” Filar agreed, “Wake was a huge win. It was another key game to pick ourselves up. It was a huge win for us on an ACC floor against a team that was much better than they were last year.”

November 21
Davidson 70 Georgia Tech 88

The Lady ‘Cats hosted Georgia Tech at Belk Arena with a crack at delivering the first-ever victory by a Davidson basketball team over an ACC opponent on that floor. But Kenya Williams scored 34 points and the Yellow Jackets handed the ‘Cats their second loss of the season. Jamie Brown paced the team with 13 points, while Kerry Brown, Katy Kamp, and Janna Magette each added 11. Magette came off the bench to knock down 3 of her 5 shots from behind the three-point arc.

November 28
Davidson 84 Chattanooga 86

The ‘Cats were expected to roll over Chattanooga,taking their first step toward a predicted first-place finish in the Southern Conference. But UT-C lit it up from the outside, knocking down 11 three-pointers. Jamie Brown again led all scorers with 21, while Jess Montrella pitched in 14 points and Magette came off the bench with 12, all from behind the arc. Kerry Brown delivered a team-high 6 assists and 4 steals along with her 11 points. Sophomore Jessica Heath continued to deliver quality minutes in the post. “Jessica Heath has improved one hundred percent. And I don’t think you’re even seeing anything close to how strong a player she can be. She’s really committed herself since we’ve started practice. She can really be a force inside.” But Davidson’s defense was unable to contain Chattanooga’s outside shooting. “We did a poor job of recognizing what we had to stop. We ran into a team that was just red hot from the outside, and we did a poor job of defending on the perimeter,” said Filar. The coach reflected, “After that loss, I thought we were in a very bad spot.”

December 1
Davidson 74
UNC Charlotte 64

The Lady ‘Cats hosted UNC-Charlotte one week ago and delivered a crucial win at home against the 49ers. Davidson jumped out to a first-half lead and never looked back. Katy Kamp had a season-high 18 points and Kerry Brown tallied up 17. Montrella shot 70% from the floor on her way to 14 points. Filar was pleased with the performance, “We knew that they were going to come in here pretty hungry because of what we did to them in their place last year. We’re starting to develop a really nice neighborhood rivalry, and it’s nice to be on the top end of it right now.” The coach continued, “This was a really big game for Katy Kamp. She’s such a power player and when she gets on a roll, she’s going to be tough to stop.” The coach also had high words of praise for the freshman marksman: Janna Magette (conveniently, rhymes with: “nothing but net”). The 3-point specialist is shooting well over 50% from the 3-point line this season, averaging double-digits scoring off the bench. “She came in tonight and hit some shots from way downtown. That’s the spark we need from Janna off the bench. When people come off the bench like that and give you a spark, it really picks everybody up.”

YES! Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits Up To $10,000 Within Days! No Credit, No Job, No PARENT SIGNER, No SECURITY DEPOSIT! No credit, bad credit, no income? If You Think You Can't Get A Credit Card, Think Again. Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?

ORDER FORM
I want Credit Cards immediately.
CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321