Chris Stec

Career points — 13

Career game minutes — 68
Career practice minutes — approx. 180,000

By Bratton Hodes
Sports Editor

The members of the Class of '98 on the men’s basketball team were certainly an entertaining and diverse group — a three-point ace who now holds the school record for wins, a flashy point guard who was a joy to watch on the court, and the most determined walk-on player in recent Davidson history. One thing that they certainly had in common was that they knew what it took to win. They combined for three 20-win seasons and earned Davidson’s sixth-ever NCAA bid and first since 1986.

The winningest player in Davidson history, Mark Donnelly was certainly the standout of the group. An All-Southern Conference selection in his junior and senior seasons, Donnelly scored a total of 1064 points in his career. That total places him 28th on the all-time scorers list. He needed three more points to pass Bill Shinn ‘61 and five more to pass Terry Holland ‘64, the former Davidson coach and athletic director who is now the AD at the University of Virginia.

His offensive output was the most valuable aspect of his game. Donnelly averaged 9.2 points per game for his career, and averaged 13.0 and 14.6 in his final two seasons. In his junior year, Donnelly was second for Davidson and 12th in the conference in scoring. This season, Donnelly was the only Wildcat to average above 10 points per contest. His performance earned him not only an All-Conference honor but also a spot on the All-Tournament first team.

A skilled three-point shooter, Donnelly finished his career with 177 threes, which places him second on the all-time list. He trails now-assistant coach Jason Zimmerman by seven. His career percentage from behind the arc was a solid 36.9. He was also a danger from the free throw line, shooting 73.9% from the stripe for his career.

Donnelly’s game was definitely not one-dimensional. He is a solid defender as well. He received the Robert McLeon Defensive Award at the end of his sophomore season, beating out then-seniors Quinn Harwood and Jeff Andrews, who had won the award in the previous two seasons. Donnelly finished with 90 career steals. He is also a good rebounder for a shooting guard. He pulled down 324 boards in his career, 2.8 per game.

Billy Armstrong spent his Davidson career as a reserve guard, playing both point and shooting guard behind solid talents such as Donnelly, Ali Ton, and Chris Alpert. Behind the unsurpassable Brandon Williams, Armstrong is possibly the most entertaining Wildcat ballplayer in recent years. He constantly fooled defenders, and sometimes even his own teammates, with his quick passes and acrobatic shots.

Armstrong scored a total of 229 points in his career, 2.6 per game, but was most valuable to the Wildcats as a playmaker. He finished with 156 career assists, just under two per game.

Armstrong was consistently one of the best three-point shooters on the team. He went 28-for-76 in his career and finished with a solid percentage of 36.8. Even more impressive was his accuracy from the free throw line. Armstrong went 49-for-62 over his four seasons and shot 78.7%.

Armstrong’s last game as a Wildcat was among his best. Against Michigan in the first round of the NCAA tournament, Armstrong tied his career high by scoring 13 points. He was 5-for-10 from the floor and 2-for-6 from three-point land. He also tallied four assists, three rebounds, and a steal in the contest.

That determined walk-on mentioned earlier is of course perennial crowd favorite Chris Stec. Stec’s dedication to the team is clear from his stats. His role was as a practice player, and he saw very little game time.

The minutes that he did receive were generally the highlight of the game for the Davidson crowd, who could always be heard chanting “Stec! Stec!” in the final minutes of a Davidson victory.

After leaving the team while he was in the Davidson biology program at Beaufort this past fall, Stec returned to the squad for the rest of his senior season, and was welcomed back by teammates and fans alike. In the Senior Game against Georgia Southern, Stec received his first start as a Wildcat. Hearing his name called out in the lineup was a thrill for everyone. He totaled a career high six minutes in the game.

According to the men’s basketball media guide, Stec’s pet peeve is “people who give up.” That shouldn’t surprise anyone.

Donnelly’s career at Davidson, which began in 1993, ended with a Southern Conference Championship and a trip to the Big Dance.

Billy Armstrong

Career points — 229
Career assists — 156
Career 3pt fg% — 37.1
Career ft% — 78.7