T S Ss Pp Oo kk tt & E D A U Y

Wildcats off to a strong start after Wednesday’s scrimmage

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

In some ways, the scrimmage last Wednesday night against Greensboro College lacked many of the traditional hallmarks of a college
football game. The stands were only speckled with a few handfuls of students, parents, and local residents. Rather than performing
on the sidelines, the cheerleading squad was holding practice in T-shirts at one corner of the field. There was no
public address system up and running. And, oh yes, only one field goal post was erected on the field.

But between the sidelines, all these missing amenities were forgotten amidst the hard-hitting, fast-paced intensity displayed by the Wildcat football
team in their first interscholastic competition of the season. The Wildcats’ steady, ball-control offense methodically picked apart the Greensboro Pride’s
defense, racking up 26 points. Meanwhile, the defensive squad delivered an impressive shutout performance.

Head Coach Tim Landis, beginning his sixth season at Davidson, was pleased with his team’s performance. “We’ve only been practicing
a week and a day. We were sloppy today, but that was expected, especially when you're installing a new offense.
But effort-wise, and things like that, I was very pleased. The kids played hard, and it was great to get
a chance to hit somebody else other than your own guys.”

The Wildcat offense was highlighted by a strong rushing performance. No statistics were recorded in the scrimmage, but quarterbacks Tommy
Dugan (’99) and Shaun Tyrance (’01) along with fullbacks Eric Ferguson (’00) and Ryan Pagan (’02) turned in strong games.
Greensboro focused on defending the fullbacks in the ‘Cats option, leaving quarterbacks Dugan and Tyrance room to run. Dugan capped
off the opening drive by dashing untouched into the end zone for an eight-yard touchdown run. And upon entering the
game in the second quarter, Tyrance racked up some big rushing yards, in part due to a 33-yard scamper across
mid-field in his first series.

LOOKING AHEAD

Coach Landis is pleased with the talent and efforts of both his quarterbacks this season. Landis noted that there is
competition for the quarterback spot, but he hopes to include both stars in his offense. “The way I view it
is that Tommy (Dugan) and Shaun (Tyrance) are two of the best athletes on the team. And they (both) need
to be playing to help us win.”

Perhaps the most encouraging performance of the night was the ‘Cats’ defense. Last season, the squad allowed a little over
24 points per game. The loss of NCAA Division I-AA All-Star Shreve Ariail to graduation leaves some big shoes to
be filled. But the return of two-year starter Wes Thornton (’99), Mike Perraut (’99), and Freeman Belser (’01) provides optimism
for an even stronger season. During the off-season, Landis and his crew made some personnel changes, hoping to become a
more athletic defensive team. Yet another change saw one of last year’s cornerbacks, Clif Henry (’99), swap positions with former
safety, Donnie Johnson (’00). Landis explained, “That change played to their strengths a little better. They’re both two of our
best defensive football players. But things just seemed to fit a bit better that way.” Johnson and Henry join Chad
Wright (’00) and Rich Hale (’99), rounding out the team’s traditionally-stellar secondary. Landis is hopeful that the pieces are now
in place for a strong defensive season. “Those were some big defensive changes we made. Up to this point, they’ve
all paid off.”

“The kids played hard, and it was great to get a chance to hit somebody else other than your own
guys.” - Coach Tim Landis

“One such change moved three-year starting TE Wes Jones (’00) to defense. Says Landis, “He really provides a couple of
things for us over there: size, which we lack, and he runs really well, too.” In addition, the team moved
DE Bo Henderson (’01) to nose guard. Henderson was the second-leading tackler on the team last year, with 84. “He’s
awfully quick. He’s strong. He’s tough to block. He’s going to give centers and guards a tough time.”

NEW FACES

This year’s incoming freshman class shows promising talent. Freshman running back Ryan Pagan (5’9”, 185 lbs.) looks to complement junior
Eric Ferguson in the backfield, providing an impressive 1-2 punch for the running game. Another top recruit, Michael Tarver (6’0”,
188 lbs.), has impressed the coaching staff. Though recruited as a quarterback, Tarver has been moved to wide receiver, where
he is expected to see some time. Evan Shay (5’10”, 225 lbs.) is expected to see minutes on the offensive
line, and Sam Fraundorf (6’0”, 200 lbs.) looks to contribute heavily as a middle linebacker.

Even more importantly, though, Landis is pleased that the strong returning veterans will give his new freshmen time to grow
and develop. “We're in a unique situation. For the first year since I’ve been here, we haven’t had to rely
on freshmen to start. Last year, we started five or six freshmen. The year before that, a half-dozen had to
start. (Right now), all 22 starters are upperclassmen. That is a good thing. It means we’ve gotten better. It means
our veterans have been constantly improving in the off-seasons. It’s paying off now because we can actually bring freshmen in,
and give them a couple of months or a year to adjust to college football. Before, we would have to
throw them right into the fire.”

The Wildcats open up their fall at Jacksonville University and then at University of the South, before returning home to
play Emory & Henry on Sept. 26.

Davidson wiffleball teams swing into action for new season

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

Until now, the most neglected sport at Davidson College has been wiffleball. On Saturday, the second season began play in
front of record crowds. While most of these athletes are not on scholarship, they play for love of the game,
personal pride, and beer. Most people agreed with MVP candidate Mike Harrington when he said, “It’s nice to see a
bunch of overweight, unathletic beer drinkers use their time wisely.”

The Wiffleball League was the brainchild of belligerent drunk Rich Glenn ‘98. This year the torch has been passed to
the new commissioner, Graham Williams. Williams is also a member of the preseason favorites, 105F. While winning a championship is
important, being part of history drives many of the players. Bro Krift, an outfielder for the Cleveland Steamers, said, “It’s
a great honor to be part of such aRich history and to play on the hallowed field of F. "I'd
never thought I'd get here.” Krift and Williams are just two of the names that will soon join with Glenn,
Richards, DeSimone, and Blair in wiffleball history. In the opener, 105F destroyed the Pufters of Armour St. 34-5. In what
was more home run derby than a game, 105F went yard nine times against the Pufters. Williams and teammate Fritz
Porter both homered three times. 105F showed their depth when John Shaw came in for Jeff Case. Shaw homered twice,
including a grand slam. One bright spot for the Pufters was the performance of Russell Bailey. Bailey attempted many acrobatic
catches, and he hustled until the final out.

The second game was a sharp contrast to the first. The Cobras (Max Nelson, Mike Harrington, Cliff Henry, and Matt
Jung) scored three early runs and held on for a 3-2 victory over the Cleveland Steamers. In the final inning,
both Tripp Cherry and Scott Geier had clutch hits, but Marshall Stuckey, who had several key hits during the game,
became mortal as he made the final out with two men on. After Saturday’s action, Scott Geier of the Steamers
attributed the loss to Opening Day jitters. He said, “We were a bit nervous playing on such a big stage,
but we came back strong in our next game.”

The highlight of Saturday’s action was a monster shot by redshirt junior Braxton Blaylock. Blaylock, who plays for Mookie, hit
his home run over Building F in a dominating 11-0 win over Kappa Sig. Mookie’s magic ended in their second
game of the afternoon as they dropped a 7-1 decision to the Cleveland Steamers. The Steamers were aided by the
debuts of both Bro Krift and Nate Hagerman. Krift hit his first homer of the year. The juggernaut that is
105F continued to roll in its later games. In their first true test of the year, they shut out Baseball
9-0. They later beat KA 13-1 behind two homers apiece by Williams and Shaw. Williams currently leads the league with
five.

While it was a great first weekend for the Wiffleball League, there were some minor problems. Commissioner Williams was a
bit concerned with the quality of the competition. He said, “I had to work a lot harder putting down the
chalk on the field than I had to work in that first game.” Lastly, Building F took a page from
the book of the Arizona Diamondbacks and tried to install a kiddie pool close to the action for both athletes
and spectators. Unfortunately, the physical plant had somehow made it impossible to turn on the water. Max Nelson, star of
the Cobras, said, “From what I remember, and that’s not much, Saturday was extremely hot, yet we weren't able to
use the pool. This is an outrage which the physical plant must fix before next weekend.”

Freshmen take the cake
By David Moncure

Cake, cake everywhere. That was the sight at the finish line of the 61st annual freshman cake race. The 1.7-mile
race, which was first run in the 1930s, this year ended with the boys’ winner, Dan Gibson, taking home the
largest cake, a Wildcat paw. The paw, made by Suzy Burr and Tab Combs, actually consisted of nine cakes and
took the seniors three days to make. The choice of the first cake went to the boys because it alternates
years between the sexes; last year the girls had first choice.

The idea of the cake race came from Pete Whittle, Davidson’s track coach from 1930-1971, and in the first race
not only were cakes a prize, but a top finisher could also have been awarded a haircut from a local
barber shop. The race usually has 50 cakes for both the top 50 men and women finishers; however, this year
there were only a grand total of 85 cakes. Support for the race must increase in the future for the
race to stay alive, according to many supporters.

Gibson finished with the top time for the boys, 8:26. Following him were Paul Irwin, Derek Brown, Chris Norbet, and
Jacob McClean. The top girls’ finisher was Lucy Billingsley with a time of 10:21. Following her were Caroline Little, Carolyn
Stumpf, Sarah Otto, and Rhiannon Ollis.

SCOREBOARD
Football: Davidson 26 | Greensboro College 0

Wildcats dominate Greensboro Pride
By Doug McGuirt
Staff Writer

Last Wednesday, on a typically balmy evening at Richardson Field, the 1998 Davidson Wildcats gave spectators a glimpse of what
the upcoming college football season could look like. They crushed the team from Greensboro College 26-0 in a three-quarter preseason
scrimmage. It was the first time this season that the ‘Cats lined up against players on another team, and the
results were impressive.

Davidson relied on a penetrating, consistent running game and a hard-nosed defense, especially on third and fourth downs, punctuated by
an outstanding play from the special teams every so often. This is exactly what the Davidson coaching staff, led by
head coach Tim Landis, expects from the team this fall in order for them to have a successful season. The
Wildcats’ defense was able to shut the lid on every Greensboro threat throughout the game, especially when they were backed
inside the 20-yard line.

In one of the most impressive series late in the third quarter, the defense forced Greensboro to punt inside their
own 25-yard line. The special teams then came up with a huge play, sacking the punter and allowing the offense
to take over on the Greensboro 19-yard line. They were able to punch the ball into the end zone to
add six more points, and backup quarterback Shawn Tyrance ran the ball in himself for the two-point conversion, resulting in
the lopsided final score.

DSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK
Graham Williams - Wiffleball -
Williams, a member of 105F, homered five times in three games to lead his team to a 3-0 start.

Men’s Soccer takes on UNC Charlotte. Tuesday 7pm the men’s soccer team opens the 1998 season with a key game
against rival UNC Charlotte. The Wildcats are looking to avenge last year’s 3-0 loss.

Sep. 1 @ UNC Charlotte (7pm)
Fri. Sep. 4 Rider (7:30 pm)
Sun. Sep. 6 Marshall (1 pm)
Sep. 1 South Carolina (7pm)
Sep. 4 @ East Carolina (1 pm)
Sep. 1 North Carolina A&T (7 pm)
Sep. 4 S.C. State (7 pm)
Sep. 5 Elon (1 pm)
Sep. 5 High Point (7pm)
Cross Country Sep. 5 @ App. State
Field Hockey Sep. 6 William and Mary (1 pm)
