THE DAVIDSONIAN

have an active year

By Kets HETHERINGTON
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Republicans have been more active than usual. A large part of this increase in activity may be attributed to the fact that this is an election year, but Jesse Smallwood, co-president of the organization, commented that “there are even more active Republican students here on campus than there have been in recent election years.”

Under the direction of the co-presidency of Jesse Smallwood and Lee Burnett, the Davidson College Republicans have been very busy since the activities fair. In September, the organization’s members sponsored a voter registration drive in which between 100 and 150 Davidson students were registered to vote. The precise number of those registered to vote is difficult to ascertain because those registering to vote have to mail in some of the forms themselves.

The group has also been slaving away in Republican Senator Faircloth’s Charlotte office stuffing envelopes and calling registered Republicans. Moreover, the College Republicans helped sponsor Dlyn Glenn who spoke here this past Sunday evening. Dlyn Glenn is a recent Davidson graduate who was defeated in Georgia’s ninth congressional district in his bid for the U.S. House.

Davidson College Republicans can be credited with bringing a long list of speakers to campus including Sue Myrick, the representative from our district, and former mayor of Charlotte and once gubernatorial candidate Richard Vinroot. And perhaps if all goes well, Senator Faircloth can be enticed to come speak at Davidson sometime later this year. Senator Faircloth is a first-term Senator running as an incumbent against Democrat John Edwards. If Faircloth is re-elected this November, he will be entering his second term as Senator.

In an interview with Smallwood, he commented on his hopes for the future of the Davidson College Republicans which include a webpage and newsletter. Smallwood also speculated about what will be the decisive issues in the 2000 presidential election and this year’s congressional elections. Chief among the issues concerning the next presidential election will be the issue of “character” and “moral behavior of elected officials.” Americans will be slow to elect another leader with morals so stilted as those of President Clinton’s. Education will be a significant factor this November in many congressional districts. Furthermore, Smallwood hazarded the guess that there will be a general calling by Americans for a tax break now that the country is running a budget surplus, which will play right into the Republican Party’s hand.

When asked whether an investigation into President Clinton’s private life is warranted, Smallwood had the following to say: “The minute President Clinton lied under oath about his relationship with Monica Lewinsky and then to the American people, the issue became a public not private affair warranting such a personal investigation.”

When asked the question how fairly he thought Republican leadership had been to Clinton during this investigation to date, Smallwood said, “I don’t think Republican leaders such as Gingrich and Hyde have made the investigation into a partisan issue. Furthermore, with the exception of Tom DeLay, Republican leadership has made few personal attacks on Clinton. All they have said is that the issue warrants further investigation.” Smallwood, however, went on to say that he believed that the issue of campaign finance “is as serious, if not more serious an issue than the whole Lewinsky affair because it deals directly with the electoral process.”

The leadership of the Davidson College Republicans is experienced in politics in their own right. Smallwood has worked for Connie Morella, a Republican representative from Maryland, Sue Myrick a Republican representative from North Carolina, and most recently in Ellen Sauerbrey’s gubernatorial campaign in Maryland. Andrew Marvin, vice-president of the organization, worked this past summer in the Defense Department.

College Republicans

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1998

On Campus Interviews Monday, November 2. Information session about her career experiences with International Paper.

Nov. 1, 7:00 pm, Guest House. Sign up in the Career Service Office. Come speak with recent graduate Kate Stevens ‘98

YES!

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No Credit, No Job, No PARENT SIGNER, No Security Deposit!

no credit * bad credit * no income?

If You Think You Can’t Get A Credit Card, Think Again.

ORDER FORM

I want Credit Cards immediately.

CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!

Master Card