Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Lady Wildcats break records in Best-ever women’s basketball team also beats Appalachian State on Senior Day

BY ALISON KALETT
Staff Writer

Last Monday, the Lady Wildcats basketball team treated the home fans to a nail-biter as they narrowly defeated Furman by a 76 to 72 margin. At the time, the win gave the Wildcats an 11-4 Southern Conference record and an impressive 16-8 regular season showing.

The game was extremely close all night. The Wildcats and the Paladins were tied at 72 with only 40 seconds left in the second half. However, sophomore Jen O’Brien’s clutch layup with about seven seconds remaining put Davidson up by a basket. Furman had the opportunity to tie or go ahead by one but instead were called for an over and back foul. The foul against Furman allowed Junior Kerry Brown to sink the game-winning free throws.

The underlying theme of the game was ‘breaking records’. The sixteenth win set a new school record for single-season wins. This was also the Wildcats’ first victory over Furman since 1992. Sophomore Jen O’Brien also continued her attack on the record books. O’Brien’s 17 points placed her eleventh on Davidson’s all-time list with a grand total of 607 career points. O’Brien also had 12 assists, breaking her personal record and the single-game record. Only in her second year, O’Brien already has 268 assists, placing her in sole possession of first place and leaving her one assist ahead of Monica Winter. Senior Jennifer Sanborn also broke a personal record, totaling over 400 points in her Wildcat career.

Other standouts for the Wildcats included Junior Jessica Montrella, who contributed 14 points and 10 boards as well as 2 blocks, which places her third on the all-time list. Junior Kerry Brown also had an outstanding game with 17 points, six of which were three-pointers. Finally, sophomore Katy Kamp shined with 15 points and 5 rebounds.

Overall, this first-ever win against Furman put the team on an emotional high, giving them tremendous confidence as they headed into their final home game against Appalachian State.

Saturday’s game against Appalachian State had to have been one of the most emotional in Davidson women’s basketball history. Not only was it the last game for seniors Amber Worrell, Danielle Mall, Jennie Vanilerberghe, and Jennifer Sanborn, but it was also Senior Day.

Baseball wins one of three

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

It was a weekend of great extremes for the Davidson baseball team. This was especially true for senior pitcher/designated hitter Mike DeSimone. DeSimone was the central figure in the drama which took place in the second game of the doubleheader against Providence College on Saturday afternoon. After dropping the first game 4-1, the Wildcats came out strong in the second. Ben Brown reached first after being hit by a pitch. Brian Luke Goodwin loaded the bases with a single. DeSimone then singled Brown home for the first of his five RBIs on the day. Marshall Tyler followed by hitting an apparent single to right field, scoring Joyce, yet DeSimone was thrown out at second on a force. The Friars ended the threat by getting Stewart Sloan to hit into a double play.

In his best outing to date, sophomore Eric Bowers pitched a strong six and two-thirds innings. Bowers was dominating at times as he had ten strikeouts. Still, Providence was able to score enough runs to win the game.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.able to knot the game at two in the top of the second. Providence first-baseman Mike O’Keefe got things started with a

See Baseball on page 14

Same old, same old. In the biggest regular season game in the Southern Conference in years, the men’s basketball team beat Appalachian St. 68-58 Thursday night at Belk Arena. The win was Davidson’s second over the Mountaineers this season and gave the Wildcats their third straight league North Division title. The week’s action left the fierce rivals with identical conference records of 13-2, but Davidson—thanks to the season sweep of the Mountaineers and Saturday’s victory over Georgia Southern—will head to Greensboro this weekend as the top seed in the league tournament.

While Mountaineer coach Buzz Peterson billed the contest as a “magic moment,” coach Bob McKillop and his Wildcats claimed to have treated it as just another game. And why not? “Davidson’s been in this situation before,” Peterson said after the game. “We haven't.”

No match for men’s hoops—again Wildcats earn Southern regular season title

It showed. In front of 4,119 fans—the third-highest output at Belk this season, behind only the Wake Forest and UMass games—the Wildcats in the first half hit six of their nine total three-pointers and limited the Mountaineers to eight field goals, taking a 32-21 advantage at intermission. Trailing by a game-high 16 points with 14:01 remaining, Appalachian went on a 9-1 run, cutting the Davidson lead to 47-39—at which point Ben Ebong, the Wildcats’ spark off the bench, sent a wake-up call to his teammates. Ebong, whose dunk put Davidson up for good in the victory Jan. 31 in Boone, shed his man with an up fake at the top of the key and flew down the lane for a windmill jam. The Wildcats’ lead never dipped below eight thereafter.

“That dunk helped stop their run and really juiced us up on defense,” said Mark Donnelly, who scored 10 points in 31 minutes. But the Wildcats won from behind the three-point arc and on the boards. Davidson made nine of its 20 long-range attempts, while Appalachian hit just three in 16 tries. Led by seven rebounds from Landry

See App. State on page 15

Baseball
Providence 4, Wildcats 1
Wildcats 7, Providence 6
Providence 13, Wildcats 3

Men’s basketball
Wildcats 68, Appalachian State 58
Wildcats 75, Georgia Southern 58

Women’s basketball
Wildcats 76, Furman 72
Wildcats 74, Appalachian State 63

Wrestling
Wildcats 40, Longwood 12
Campbell 43, Wildcats 10

Men’s Tennis
Wildcats 5, NC State 4

p. 14 Wrestling team finishes season .500, p. 14 Baseball loses one to UNCC, p. 15 Marshall receives conference honor, Men’s tennis defeats NC State, p. 15 Southern Conference Basketball Tournament preview, pull-out

The winningest player in school history, Mark Donnelly reached another milestone by scoring his 1,000th career point last

MARK DONNELLY

Baseball
Wednesday vs. Winthrop (3:00)
Friday vs. Ohio (3:00)

Men’s Basketball
Saturday vs. Elon (10:00 a.m.)
Sunday vs. Ohio (3:00)

Men’s
Shortly after becoming

Women’s
Thursday-SoCon Championships @ Greensboro

Baseball vs. Winthrop Wednesday 3:00

In their final home game before the fans leave for spring break, the

Thursday vs. U. of Denver (3:00)
Saturday vs. Duke, UNC @ Duke

against

Saturday

Donnelly and senior

game.

Men’s & Women’s
Thursday-Saturday, ECACs @ Gloucester Tech

Chris Stec started in an emotional

Men’s Tennis
Friday vs. E. Carolina (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday @ UTC (10:00 a.m.)

Saturday, SoCon Championships @ Greensboro

baseball players take on a tough Winthrop team this Wednesday. For those staying for break, the team has three games against Ohio and Elon this weekend.