THE DAVIDSONIAN

May 2

Rohypnol returns!

By Mitch Shores

Well, welcome back, folks! It is yet again the time to start another action-packed semester. We hope to address some of your health concerns and answer any questions you may have. We did not get very many inquiries last semester, and we certainly hope to see more this semester.

Last semester we addressed the issue of those infamous date rape drugs. If you will recall, these drugs elicit a very harmful response. When mixed with alcohol, they can cause you to become totally vulnerable, and you forget everything that has happened. The drugs are unknowingly dropped into the victims’ drinks and can go undetected. This makes it easier for those sexual predators to sexually assault others.

Recently a new color-releasing formulation of Rohypnol was made. The new tablet dissolves more slowly in liquid and releases a bright blue color as it dissolves. When used in darker liquids, the drink will appear murky. Now, if you are enjoying your beverage and you go to take the next sip, only to notice that it is bright blue or murky - GRAB YOUR FRIENDS AND HAUL ASS, HONEY!!! You are on the way to being tricked, and I can promise you it ain’t gonna be no treat for you.

If you are planning on using one of these nasty little pills, don’t do it! Urine tests can now be conducted to detect the use of date rape drugs. From this point on, it will be a nose-dive for people caught using these drugs. The Drug-Induced Rape Prevention and Punishment Act of 1996 will leave your little butt in prison for up to 20 years. Also, if they can detect the use of these drugs through urine screens, it will be easier to convict the aggressor.

Along with this article, it is only appropriate that we inform you of some of the things the Rape Awareness Committee here at Davidson has been doing. Coming soon to a bathroom stall near you, there will be these groovy neon flyers. On them, you will find the “Info 2 Know.” This will include helpful telephone numbers in times of need and rape and abuse resources, as well as sexually transmitted disease testing information. Looking for a support group? Well, you can find it on this little sheet, too.

Have fun while you are partying, but be careful. Look out for your friends. These parties and nightclubs can get very hectic at times. After this weekend, you should all be able to share some horrifying or wonderful stories. If you should have any other questions or concerns send them to:

The Student Body
c/o Mitch Shores
PO Box 4180
Davidson, NC 28036

$$ NEED EXTRA CASH? $$
WE CAN HELP!

If the holidays have left you with a lighter wallet, we have a solution! The Davidson College Annual Fund needs individuals interested in working as student callers for the 1998 Annual Fund Campaign. We are seeking individuals who are able to communicate articulately and cordially over the telephone. This position offers substantial pay and flexible evening hours throughout the Spring semester. In addition, students will benefit from this unique opportunity to speak with Davidson alumni.

If interested, contact Jenny Reinoehl at x2113.

“Zany Neko of fun”

Bar-B-Q from page 10

heard of hush puppies, as difficult as it is for North Carolina natives to believe. Many first-time visitors to Lancaster’s pick up a hush puppy, hold it closely before their eyes and rotate it slowly as a perplexed look engulfs their face, asking in bewilderment, “What the hell are these?”

Other appetizers worthy of mention are the cheese sticks and the hot chips, which are neither hot nor chips, but are zany buckets of fun to eat. Lancaster’s also offers their self-proclaimed “World’s Greatest Buffalo Wings.”

The menu offers an ample variety of main courses, including bar-b-que everything, catfish, shrimp, chicken (in a wide variety), sandwiches, burgers (also in a wide variety), and a small kid’s menu for the 11-and-under crowd. High recommendation goes to the bar-b-que pork sandwich and the “Chic-a-que” variant. Most meals are served with a choice of fries (the “big” kind) or onion rings. Save room for these. It is difficult not to go buckwild with the hush puppies. Temperance is key.

Prices on entrees range from about $5 up to $11 for the expensive seafood stuff. More often than not, one can escape from Lancaster’s with a well-satisfied stomach for no more than $8.

Lancaster’s is currently expanding its seating area to nearly double its current size in order to accommodate its thriving popularity. The restaurant is typically filled to capacity, but waiting time on tables is never too horrendous.

Lancaster’s Bar-b-que is a landmark of Southern culture and cuisine, a great place to observe and absorb life outside of Davidson’s bubble. Take your friends and spread the hush puppy gospel.

Directions: Take Interstate-77 North to Exit 36, Mooresville. Turn right at the top of the exit ramp. Drive for 2-3 miles until you see a Bojangle’s on the left. Turn left immediately before the Bojangle’s and climb the hill. Lancaster’s will appear on the right. Or ask around for better directions.