Admit it. I am a computer geek. I am an internet space cowboy. I am a pioneer on the World
Wide Web. I understand the subtle differences between Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0 and Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.01. I think Bill
Gates has style. So with the installation of the Ethernet connection to my dorm room last fall, I began dreaming
of faster baud rates and better file transfer protocol sites. My computer had all types of stuff on it. I
had ICQ and AOL. I checked my e-mail with QVT and surfed the net with IE4.0. I had Win95, WinZip,
WinWord, WinAmp, WinPlayer, and even WinCallHomeSoIDon'tHaveTo. My friends started calling me “dave dot com,” but I didn’t mind. Yep, those
were the days.

Come May, I made sure that my Ethernet request slip was the first one in the ResNet office to guarantee
my Ethernet connection for the next year. Or so I thought. Three months later, after a computerless summer, and endless
entries in my diary about separation anxiety from my computer, I arrived at school in August anticipating more the security
of an internet connection than anything else. Saliva unconsciously oozed out the corner of my mouth and plopped onto my
keyboard as I connected my Ethernet cable to my computer. But to my dismay, as I did so, amongst my
salivation and attentive anticipation, nothing happened. Contrary to their promise, ResNet had not turned on my Ethernet connection. I swallowed
my frustration and politely typed an e-mail to ResNet explaining my situation. Just to make sure they grasped the magnitude
of my situation, I also left a message on their answering machine. A day later, they assured me that everything
would be up and running in a week and apologized for the trouble.

I bit my nails for a week, but seven days later, I still had no internet from my dorm. And
I found out that I wasn’t alone in my distress. It seemed to me that more than half the students
that signed up for internet access were without it. The other half weren't able to follow ResNet’s “simple” directions. Holding
back the frustration that had built inside of me, I decided to talk to the head honcho, Marsha Makl of
Information Technology Services. I left a polite message on her machine, and she very politely returned my call the same
day and informed me that my Ethernet jack would be up and working by the next Sunday.

A day later, a manly voice left me a message. The voice was deep and gruff, the kind that often
accompanies large hairy men with unkempt beards. It had a sexy ring to it when it confirmed, “I’ll have your
connection up and working by tomorrow.” I archived the message for three days, I was so ecstatic. But a week
later, nothing changed with my internet status. And two weeks later, still nothing. A month later, and nothing. I don’t
know which part of my tuition pays for my Ethernet access, but it’s probably the same part that pays the
guy at Vail Commons to dream up new and inventive meals.

So I sit here on Oct. 20, still with no internet access. And I am sad. I have not downloaded
for six months, so I stopped calling and began treating ResNet like an old girlfriend. Maybe I was just trying
too hard by calling too much. Lately, I’ve been playing hard to get. When I look for a girl, I
don’t mess around with those cheap Macs or Apples. I'm a PC guy. The high maintenance costs don’t bother me.
A lot of guys find themselves compatible with two big gigs and an easily accessible Zip drive. But those guys
must be sure they are protected by a reputable virus protection program when they insert their floppy and transfer files.
Sure, most say that it is a faster, easier, more enjoyable download without a VirusScan, but come on guys, all
you need to see is some pictures of some discombobulated floppies after a bad download, and that will be enough
deterrent. Yes, some programs come with funny, add-on packages to attract the inexperienced consumer, but one shouldn’t fall for these
capitalistic gimmicks. As far as I am concerned, I just want someone to type my keys in all the right
places. I don’t know if my Ethernet jack is the...Only inactive one on campus. Some like to talk a lot
and make up stories to compensate for their lack of luck, but I’m not afraid to admit that my connection
is quite inactive. I don’t know if there are technical difficulties and my jack is the exception. But I'd like
to know. I didn’t mind so much ResNet’s incompetence when Pollux crashed for three days, or that I do not
know of one non-computer geek that could successfully follow ResNet’s instructions on setting up their Ethernet connection. I just would
like a call. I’m not whining, just a little unhappy and disappointed with this institution’s computer savvy. So these days,
late at night, I sit in front of a computer stranded from the wide world of internet access. I sit
by the phone and wait. I hope and pray for that gruff sexy voice of a large burly man with
an unkempt beard. Ooooo, if only he would call. I mean, like I said before, I haven’t downloaded in over
six months... give me some slack. But only in my dreams.

A call to action: Let’s trash Davidson. I am tired of this garbage. The senior apartments are quickly becoming trash-covered,
fly-ridden ghetto tenements. Why can the physical plant not pick up the trash? Why can people who are paid to
do a job not do their job? (DO YOUR JOB.)

Several weeks ago, the Residence Life Office announced a new trash policy. Seniors no longer would be able to place
trash in a bin outside each building; they would be required to tote their garbage on a nature walk to
the nearest (for lack of a better word) dumpster. Why the change? Apparently, the Physical Plant was not picking up
the garbage, so instead of making the Physical Plant do its job, RLO decided to hire unpaid migrant workers known
as students in these parts to do its job instead.

Before the new trash policy took effect, RLO had made seniors sign contracts to live in Martin Court Apartments. No
other students living in student housing had to sign their life away, but the rationale was that it would help
seniors know what life in the real world was like. The same rationale was present when RLO decided that seniors
(again, unlike all other students in student housing) would have to provide their own toilet paper. Having lived in a
few apartments, I can tell you that you do have to sign a contract and you do have to provide
your own toilet paper in the real world. You don’t, however, have to provide your own garbage collection service. In
every apartment or house or dorm I have lived in, there has been a centralized trash depository in or in
front of that building. Never in the real world does one have to hike a quarter of a mile to
a dumpster. (DO YOUR JOB.)

I am not just a lazy bum who is tired of walking a little ways. There are some major problems
with the trash policy as it stands now. First of all, most seniors have a hard time making the hike
to the dumpster. Whether that is laziness or not, it is a fact of life. Bags of trash pile up
outside of apartments. The trash can in the laundry room is jammed with trash from apartments. And trash piles up
in individual rooms. The end result is that Martin Court has become a health hazard of Chernobylesque proportions. I had
a cookout a few weeks ago, and 50 or more flies swarmed around the food, so much so that I
could hardly take a bite of my burger without ingesting a colony of insects. (DO YOUR JOB.)

In addition, Davidson’s always lackluster attempts at recycling have now become non-existent at the apartments. Recycling, as my voice mail
said today, has stalled completely. With as many beer cans and pizza boxes as the senior apartments go through, this
is a horrible injury to the environment. Robert Norfleet said in the last Davidsonian that “we're being irresponsible about energy
consumption.” He was talking about lights in Chambers. I am talking about recycling at the apartments. For each aluminum can
that has to be made from scratch, energy amounting to a gallon of gasoline is expended. Not allowing students a
way to recycle is being irresponsible about energy consumption. If the school does not take action about this policy, it
will definitely show that Norfleet’s statement was simply empty rhetoric trying to cover up the real motivation for de-lighting Chambers
— money. (DO YOUR JOB.)

Finally, aside from all the problems and environmental hazards, one thing remains to be said. As a senior, I pay
more money than any other student on campus to live with four people in a dump where the lights are
dim and the stove burners slanted. I have to provide my own toilet paper, I have to do my own
cleaning, and I deserve to have my trash taken care of. Welcome to the real world, you say? Let me
welcome RLO and Physical Plant to the real world — DO YOUR JOB or GET FIRED. In the real world
there are no students to press into service. And in the real world, there are trash bins.

I know there are seniors who really don’t care about all this. But for those who do, I want to
invite you to join me. I am not going to stand for this garbage. On Wednesday night, Oct. 21, I
am going to dump my garbage in the road where it splits off to go to For on up to
Jamison. Right out next to Ryburn. I am going to be there at 9 p.m. I hope you can join
me. Bring your trash, your recyclables, your roommate’s blow-up dolls, and anything else you want to get rid of. Like
a club car. We don’t have to take these policy changes and screw jobs. RLO has to hold up its
end of the contract too. Let’s trash Davidson.
