1. I’ve been an SGA class senator since my freshman year. I co-chair two SGA committees: the Public Relations Committee, which is responsible for events like SGA Day every semester, and the Town Relations Committee, where I act as a student voice at Town Council meetings. I am also the House Manager of Warner Hall. I’ve been in a leadership position every semester that I’ve been at Davidson.

2. The Vice President has an important connection not only to the Senate but to the students via the SGA committee system, which the VP works closely with.

3. I see my position as essentially a more responsive, intense SGA senator. As a voting member, I will try to represent the entire school. I plan to listen, watch, and ask questions among the Senate and the student body, then relay what I learn to the President. The VP is distinct from a Senator and the President as random but very important duties often befall the VP. I feel that I’m qualified to occupy this position. I know the needs of the students, whether through my eating house or through committees. I will exercise the opinions of the students. I know the SGA. I know how it works. I know what it needs to serve the students better.

4. I see the SGA moving toward a more unified and concrete direction. I hope to encourage the committees to solidify and meet more regularly and for Senators to better meet the needs of their constituents. Because the SGA is defined as the major representative body, I would like to see it better fulfill this purpose. The SGA should energetically and enthusiastically address every need of the students.

5. I think that the majority of the campus is aware that SGA exists, but not aware of just how many of the needs of the students their representative body can address. The SGA can channel student input throughout the school, and I intend to encourage students to exercise their opinions.

1. I have almost two full years of SGA experience, as an independent senator and Junior class President. I have been on numerous committees, chair of the Roundtable Committee, and most recently co-chair of the SGA Rides Committee. I am also a Hall Counselor on 2nd Rich.

2. I have a lot of SGA experience, so I know the process very well. I am a member of the Student Executive Committee (SEC), so I have seen a lot more of the detail work and daily interaction that occurs outside of the meetings on Tuesday nights. I feel that I have excellent communication skills and work well with almost anyone.

3. I have seen the SGA take a lot of positive steps during my time serving in it. Student involvement, even in the last year, has dramatically increased, especially on SGA committees. I think those elected in the next year have a wonderful opportunity to continue this growth. I feel that I have the energy and enthusiasm to be able to get out and really promote the SGA and build upon the foundation built by previous administrations.

4. The Vice President has to know and be able to help the President and the SEC. But I feel the SGA Vice President’s most important duty is the chairperson of the Intercouncil.A number of issues will determine the fate of the SGA in the future. It would be my job to supervise the chairpersons of all the SGA committees, where I feel most of the real work of the SGA is done. This would be a great chance to truly be able to steer the direction SGA goes—building student involvement and increasing accountability. I know how the system works, have a lot of quality experience, and have a concrete vision for how important and influential the SGA can be. 

Town Relations (and the response to the Christmas Day tragedy) are very important, as well as the level of student involvement. I feel our voice among the faculty is growing, but still has a long way to go. If elected, I have a lot of plans to further organize and increase accountability among the committee system, as well as promote discussion between campus groups and the SGA in order to make our campus better.

UNION BOARD PRESIDENT

With plans for a new Union underway, it is crucial that the Union Board not only continue their excellent programming, but also have the vision for how the new Union has to be constructed, physically and philosophically, to serve the Davidson community. I find it exciting to contribute to this vision. Since freshman year, the Union and the events planned by the board have been an important aspect of my education because they taught me and entertained me, helped me get to know a wide range of people, and kept me sane as a break from academic life. 

I have served on a number of Union committees since freshman year, and on the board before the current one held the Literary Arts Chair position. Because separation anxiety was so great when leaving my Union family for China, I hung around last summer and worked for the Union part-time. More important than my experience, although it is a vital part of my qualifications to head the Union Board, is my love of what the Union is all about and the people who work there. Some think the Union is just the café, or a place to pick up packages, but these people are really missing out, and I want to show them why.

I am not out to dazzle with shiny new proposals, I am there to contribute to other board members’ ideas and make them come to fruition. I serve as a collective student voice when discussing what the new Union building will contain. If I do my job right, people never have to think I am doing anything, because the work of the President is in a lot of cases behind the scenes, and only when things don’t run smoothly is it evident that the Union President has had a hand in it. I am committed to being open to the ideas of everyone in the Davidson community and encourage those with gripes, praises, or visions for the Union to talk to me any time. It’s not an easy role I assumed, and I know this. But my job can be a lot easier and more productive with a strong Union Board and student support. I look forward to an educational, busy, fun (because above all that is what the Union is) year. From here on out, in case you are wondering, those bags under my eyes aren’t fatigue, they are bags of joy... See you at the Union!