6 — THE DAVIDSONIAN

Denham’s Holocaust class worth the effort

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998

A course of long hours tries to find meaning in the Holocaust

By Lydia WILSON
Staff Writer

German professor Scott Denham’s German 231/241: The Holocaust is making its place in the campus “buzz” this semester. In their study of the Holocaust, Denham and his students attempt to learn “what happened, by whom, and to whom, and to learn perhaps something about why.” In no way, however, does the course attempt to find meaning in the Holocaust, because, according to Denham, that may not be an accomplishable task.

Because of the intensity with which the Holocaust is studied, the workload for the course is “vast.” Denham met individually with each student registered for the course before the end of last semester in order to explain fully the course’s intensive requirements and syllabus.

Students were expected to come to the first day of class having already read two books and written two essays. Regarding these assignments, Denham said he wanted his students “to be sure they were ready” for what he acknowledges to be a difficult course.

Typically, the work for German 231/241 includes reading a book per week, a brief reading quiz at the beginning of each class period, a brief essay due almost every Tuesday, weekly hour-long out-of-class discussion groups, and additional film screenings.

One of Denham’s students, freshman Noel McFadden-Gerber, feels the heavy workload pays off. “It is tough reading, and I work a lot for it,” Gerber said, “but it’s my most interesting class.” The course is more than just discussion on books and films, however. An integral part of what makes this course so unique is the array of media used as teaching tools. Students are presented with documentary and analytical history as well as memoirs, novels, poems, films, statistics, art, music, memorials, and debate.

Also as part of the class, from Mar. 20-22 students will take a field trip to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, DC.

The variety of material studied is precisely why sophomore Matt Johnston finds the course exciting. “It looks at the Holocaust from a lot of different angles,” said Johnston. “We learn about both the victims’ and the Nazis’ points of view, and how the Holocaust affected other countries.”

The course is available to both German and non-German majors and currently is comprised of students of all years. Of all the students enrolled in the English version of the course, German 231, none are taking it for core or major requirements. This response to the class shows Davidson students’ desire for diversity in their class choices, and to Denham, encouraging diversity is important for Davidson as a whole.

The Holocaust has captured Denham’s attention for many years, and he is glad to have an opportunity to offer a course on the subject. “Since I first encountered the Holocaust in a serious way,” said Denham in a paragraph from his syllabus, “I continue to read and search and question.”

Last year, his search took him to Poland. There, he and the students participating in the German department's junior year abroad program were able to get a first-hand view of many Holocaust sites, including Oscar Schindler’s factory, the Warsaw Ghetto, and Auschwitz.

Through such experiences, Denham has become convinced that, as he said in his syllabus, “understanding the Holocaust is hardly possible in a lifetime, if at all.”

All the same, Denham still feels it is important to surround students with a wealth of knowledge in order to be able to confront what happened as directly as possible. German 231/241 does just that.

THE FORCE OF IDEAS

Meet representatives from The Advisory Board Company and learn more about our Research Associate position.

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1998 THE GUEST HOUSE DAVIDSON COLLEGE 7:00 P.M. THE ADVISORY BOARD COMPANY

The Watergate, 600 New Hampshire Ave., N.W. Washington, DC 20037-2403

For additional information, please visit our Web site at www.advisory.com

An Equal Opportunity Employer

We're still on the look-out for the following:

Arts & Living Editor
Layout Staff Members
Interviewers (Q&A)
Sports Writers

Please call Sarah Ogden (x6508) or Randy Skattum (x6667) for more information.