By Jenny Hapcoop, Staff Writer

On Jan. 19, Davidson College offered students, faculty, and community members the chance to remember and celebrate the achievements of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Civil Rights Movement. Afternoon classes were canceled, and students were encouraged to attend
the variety of seminars that took place at the Union. The theme of the day was “Spreading the Dream.” Seminars
on six different topics, including women in the Civil Rights Movement and Dr. King’s perspective on affirmative action, contributed to
the spreading of knowledge and the sparking of much discussion and contemplation.

A lecture and discussion entitled “Women in the Civil Rights Movement” was led by Davidson’s Dr. Sally McMillen. Opening with
a historical look at the black woman as a slave, McMillen discussed the family life and the working conditions for
these women, who faced three types of discrimination. First, they were discriminated against because they were women, second, because they
were black, and third, because they were slaves.

Focusing on the struggles they faced, McMillen then progressed through history by discussing the black woman’s role in the church
during the late 19th century. At that time, black women led Sunday school and focused on religious faith, while addressing
the violence and the downfall of black American men of the times. The church was the center of the African-American
community, particularly during the 1950s and ‘60s. McMillen suggested that the strength people found in their religions gave them more
strength to overcome and triumph during the turmoil of the Civil Rights Movement. “Most African-Americans turned inward to their communities
to help each other lift their pride,” said McMillen.

Sitting in on the seminar was Brenda Tapia, who runs a program at Davidson called “Common Ground.” This program seeks
to bridge the racial gap between students on campus. Tapia said, “Quite often we have a tendency to think we
can only help our own. We need to reach out and get past that.”

Later, in the 900 Room, Dr. Russ Snapp and Dr. Barbara Ballard led a discussion entitled “RACE: Shaping Our Perceptions
of Ourselves and Others.” They began the discussion by stating that race is an ideology that has no scientific foundation.
They encouraged students to abandon the word “race” because it carries many negative connotations. First, race implies a hierarchy and
it is this notion of a hierarchy that allows discrimination to continue. Secondly, “race” is often used to separate the
“white race” from all other races. By dignifying the “white race,” people are negatively focusing on the condition of not
being colored. Thus, “race,” in this sense, hinders the progression toward equality.

After establishing their argument against the use of the word “race,” Snapp and Ballard opened the topic for discussion. The
first question a student asked was, “How does a black get over being black when everyone else discriminates against him
or her?” Snapp responded by saying that a black cannot stop thinking of himself in terms of being black until
everyone can stop thinking in terms of race. He went on to say that this sort of outlook is more
realistically a long-term goal and something that can only occur after many other changes take place.

Many students felt that African-Americans...

College Bowl makes a comeback

Press RELEASE

On Jan. 26 and 29, Davidson College...will host its first college bowl tournament since the early 1990s. College Bowl, also
called “the varsity sport of the mind,” is a game of academic knowledge and quick recall. Now in its 21st
year, the College Bowl campus program is a popular tradition at over 300 institutions of higher learning. Like the popular
radio and television series of the 50s, 60s, and 70s, the game features two teams of four players, each competing
to score points for toss-up and bonus questions. The questions cover every conceivable topic, from literature, science, history, geography, religion,
social sciences, multicultural topics, and the arts to popular culture, sports, and current events. The victorious team from this year’s
tournament will go on to represent Davidson at the regional championships, Feb. 20-22 in Knoxville, Tennessee.

College Bowl is organized and administered with the cooperation of the national Association of College Unions International (ACUI), of which
Davidson College is a member. The tournament is being run by the union board in conjunction with the student government
association.

College Bowl used to thrive at Davidson. In the 70s and 80s, College Bowl was extremely popular, and tournaments were
held every week in the Union. In 1979, a team of Davidson all-stars stunned almost everyone. That team beat a
tough Harvard squad 405-110 to capture the College Bowl National Championship and went on to the world championship match against
the Sidney Sussex College of Cambridge University in Manchester.

The preliminary rounds of College Bowl will begin on campus Jan. 26 and 29 at 4 p.m. in Phi and
Eu Halls. Sign-ups for the College Bowl Tournament are located at the bulletin board in the Union, or contact Britton
Taylor at 6626.

Many students should not look at themselves as simply Americans. As freshman Allen Lee said on the topic of recognizing
the achievements of African-Americans, “There’s one win for us. We need to know that black people are making strides and
achievements.” Many students seemed to support Lee’s sentiment for strong black role models. Senior Joy Sparks said, “We need to
look at the United States as more of a salad bowl than as a melting pot. We need to appreciate
all the ingredients: the croutons, the lettuce, and the tomatoes.” This idea provoked a few warm chuckles of agreement and
led the conversation to how comfortable minorities feel in this country, in the South, and on this campus. Programs like
the BSC and “Common Ground” can help students feel more comfortable with their peers, particularly their peers of another race.
Davidson is always attempting to become more diverse, but we need to remember the question that freshman Jehan Shamsid-Deen posed:
“Are we doing everything we can, and if we do achieve greater diversity, will we take advantage of that?”

LSAT CLASS STARTS February 17th in Davidson. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST TODAY to enroll. SEATS are LIMITED!

The Radicalism of Holism: Ecological Design and a Liberal Arts Education
Dr. David Orr
Chair, Oberlin Environmental Studies Program
Thursday, 7 p.m. in the 900 Room
Speak with Dr. Orr at the Crop Lunch, Thursday, 11:30 a.m.-1:15 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Also, open discussion with Dr. Orr on Friday, 2:30 p.m. in the Home Room.
