While President Vagt’s decision last week answered the one big question on whether or not sororities will be on campus,
his reasoning left others unanswered.

DELVING IN

Naresh Nagella has to read into President Vagt’s decision a little. Let me give you a couple of possible interpretations:

1. Frats are next. Take President Vagt’s sentence, “It is my judgment that the presence of sororities at Davidson could
put at risk one of this institution’s greatest strengths - that is, the unsurpassed quality, the breadth and depth, of
the female applications for admission.” He went on to say that the admissions office and high school guidance counselors supported
that reasoning. And then he stated, “Absent these facts (my emphasis) simple equity would have dictated inviting sororities to organize
here.” Now, substitute fraternities for sororities and males for females. The logic at face value should make the same sense:
The presence of fraternities would also lessen the male applicant quality and alter the academic atmosphere of this campus. If
that statement is not true, then something is very different (or lacking) regarding males’ and females’ ability to handle Greek
societies in that “smart, useful applicant” males do come here, regardless of fraternities (or with the capability to handle fraternities),
and that females cannot do the same.

President Vagt, himself a member of a frat while at Davidson, apparently would have much to say about the utility
(or lack thereof) of those organizations on campus. And he did try to address this issue by subverting it. And,
so, he said, “This is not a judgment about Greek societies in general...” However, it does stem from the recommendations
that qualified observers said a strong portion of any fully Greek sorority student body would never have let President Vagt
hear the end of it. It was no secret that a majority of the faculty did not want sororities on
campus. I have never seen the faculty so vocal, or so efficiently and adamantly opposed to, a campus change in
my three and a half years here. He would not have won glowing admiration from the some 80 percent of
the student body opposed to sororities, either. So, President Vagt was faced with disappointing a 120-member faculty with whom he
would have to spend the rest of his tenure here, or a very small minority of not-that-well-organized sorority-supporters who would
soon graduate and still appreciate the school, anyway. President Vagt took the more peaceful way out - for himself and
for the school. No one argues with the status quo they chose, right?

2. The faculty and the anti-sorority proponents on this campus. I do not see how you can separate the issue.
The silence of President Vagt on fraternities and the campus’s apparent acceptance of his reasoning not to invite sororities, as
witnessed by no other letters to either The Davidsonian’s or Libertas’s editors this week, leaves open the possibility that the
school could next work on removing fraternities. I doubt that will ever happen, but it is a possibility.

3. President Vagt did the right thing to preserve the status quo and tried most diplomatically not to offend anyone
in doing so. If so, it worked. Still, on a general level, I find it difficult to buy the “sororities
= decreased quality in the female applicant pool” argument. The quality of the female applicant pool is decided by the
admissions and financial aid office. If they want high SAT scores, well-rounded, non-vacuous girls to come here, they simply recruit
and accept more of such people and reject the “undesirable sorority girl.” I mean, I think there are some fraternities
and some eating houses (FIJI, Sig Ep, Connor) that perform well above the overall student body in grade point average
and commitment to the community. That is, sororities and fraternities are not mutually exclusive with the type of student body
we desire.

Simply, I do not understand how the administration, faculty, or President Vagt can let fraternities continue here given the reasoning
offered for not allowing sororities to come to campus. Ultimately, it defends the status quo, and with it, exposes the
contradictions, hypocrisies, and virtues that make Davidson what it is today. President Vagt did us a nice favor of tip-toeing
around the status quo and trying not to upset it - but in doing so, he eventually gave us a
great reflection of such characteristics. However, as my argument has shown, looking under-Beneath that surface is upsetting and disturbing. President
Vagt is definitely a good leader and a student’s president. I appreciate his good nature and easily approachable qualities. He
will definitely do many good things for Davidson. I never remember President Kuykendall weighing in with such detail on an
important campus issue or meticulously attending meetings and discussions that dealt with such matters. I sort of resented him for
not doing so. But now I think maybe it was because he knew the folly of doing so and the
ugliness it could expose. Who knows?

I praise President Vagt’s decision on sororities, but next time, he should have (taking a cue from the 80s anti-drug
slogan) “just said no” and little else. Then, maybe, he could have avoided the shaky explanation for his decision to
preserve the status quo. And, when someone attempts to explain and justify the Davidson status quo, it only leads to
further problems and questions that need solutions. This discussion should not end here.....

Vintage car crises

Those among you who operate vintage automobiles, you all know the pain of parking an old relic next to your
friends’ BMWs, Explorers, and Grand Cherokees. You know the AAA guys too well, and you are used to gas station
attendants and yard workers looking at you like family. Make no mistake about it, I love my car very much,
but I should have known that one day Gene would be the source of my downfall.

Last Friday night, in anticipation of the Self-Selection activities to come, my friend Ann and I set out for Wendy’s
to nourish ourselves with a Number Five and a Sprite. We hopped into Gene, my ‘78 mint green Chevrolet Malibu,
and took a quick detour to the Senior Apartments to deposit my roommate at a hall reunion dinner. I pulled
away from the curb in front of Hart and I got this horrible, twisted feeling in my stomach. Come on,
keep going, please please please don’t stop HERE!!! My verbal coaxing of my engine was fruitless, and the car slid
to a halt. Right there, dead center, blocking the entire parking lot in front of Hart. In vain I tried
to bring my dear Gene back to life, and thus flooded the engine. Such a metaphor for my life.

An engine revved up and Ann and I looked up to see a large pickup heading right for us. Having
no desire to come face-to-face with an angry senior boy who wanted to exit the parking lot, Ann and I
shot out of the car and bolted for the woods. The boy got out of his truck, shouted some profanities
at my innocent little car, backed his car back into its space, and stormed into one of the apartment buildings.
Ann grabbed my shoulder, “We gotta get outta here! Start that damn thing!”

We slipped out of the woods and darted for Gene, and then it happened. We had just slammed the doors
behind us when we were blinded by multiple pairs of headlights. Ann and I looked at one another. We knew
what we had to do to avoid complete and utter humiliation at the hands of upperclassmen. “Duck!” I screamed. “Duck!!”
We both dove for the floor, thinking that surely our fellow motorists would decide that the car had been abandoned
and the crowd would disperse. No such luck. The headlights got closer and closer. Ann started shrieking, and I honestly
thought I was going to be ill. At that point I knew what I had to do. I shoved the
keys into the ignition, all the while muttering, “Start this instant! Start, damn you!” under my breath. Again, nothing.

Suddenly, a car door slammed and a deep, male voice yelled, “Geez, is that Sarah? Is somebody making out in
there?! That’s disgusting!” Now, Ann and I were both raised to be good Southern girls, and being mistaken for someone
making out in a ‘78 Malibu - in the middle of the parking lot no less - took us both
a little off guard. It’s just one of those situations that is so mortifying, all you can do is sit
there and stare blankly into the headlights the devil sent to torture you. In one last ditch attempt to escape
the parking lot either unharmed by my fellow motorists or having my name raked through the mud, I turned the
key and the engine started humming. My head barely above the steering wheel to avoid identification, I slowly accelerated past
angry senior men pointing their fingers and shaking their fists.

On behalf of the small percentage of Davidson students who do not operate luxury automobiles, I would like to beg
that in the future, if you are the unlucky one to come across a 1978 mint-green Chevrolet Malibu stopped in
the middle of a parking lot, be kind and just look the other way. There are probably two frightened little
blondes huddled on the floor praying not to be discovered by anyone but a nice man driving a discreet tow
truck!

A Little RAIN Must FALL
BY KATIE MILTICH
