**News TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1999**

**Environmental Action Committee makes Tibetan monk attempt for new recycling program**

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

The Environmental Action Coalition held its recycling event yesterday in hopes of raising awareness about the need for a strong
commitment to recycling at Davidson. In addition, members of the leadership team for recycling presented the college community with a
statement of Davidson College’s plan for realizing this goal. The release of the statement marks the culmination of a great
deal of research and cooperation between students and administrators. However, the event is just the beginning of the push to
educate the college community about recycling.

The statement, drafted by the Recycling Committee of the EAC and by members of the administration, first outlined the developments
in creating a new recycling program at the college. Pending further contract negotiations, the college and Waste Management, a waste
collection firm, should have reached an agreement about a new program by the end of the month. This new program
will include both recyclable materials and regular waste.

“We are looking at revamping not only our recycling program, but the entire way that waste is handled,” explained Barbara
Zaionz, superintendent of building services. Under this agreement, a specialist from Waste Management would come and do a building-by-building audit
of the entire campus. Once this specialist had collected all the necessary information, the firm would then design a program
specifically designed to meet Davidson’s needs. The administration hopes to have this new system, including the necessary new equipment, in
place by the beginning of next semester.

Zaionz explained that this move was due in part to some questions about the college’s old recycling program. BFI is
the college’s present waste hauler. This firm has been working under the agreement that recyclable materials be transported to Mecklenburg
County’s Municipal Recycling Center. However, investigation revealed that materials were not being consistently recycled. Moreover, since Davidson and BFI have
been operating without a contract, none of the recycling activity was verifiable. Under the new system, Waste Management would use
receipts recording the exact amount of waste taken for recycling.

The statement on recycling policy also emphasized the need for total participation on campus if this program is to work.
Members of the Recycling Committee expressed a feeling of responsibility for organizing this support. To this end, they presented the
campus with a picture of just how much of its waste is recyclable. Through this, they hoped to demonstrate the
great need for a recycling program at Davidson.

In addition to awareness, Anne Stancil '00, committee co-chair, affirmed the need for education about recycling. “Once we know what
our program is going to be, once we know that, we will begin to educate the rest of the campus,”
said Stancil. The committee members stressed the importance of explaining to students what can and cannot be recycled and where
the proper places are for depositing recyclable materials. They had several suggestions to this effect. Among them was the idea...of
putting door hangers on all the door handles of dorms explaining the process of recycling at Davidson. Another was appointing
recycling representatives in all the dorms to monitor progress and to further educate students. Zaionz noted that student input was
desired during this process and that the Recycling Committee provided this. Their suggestions were helpful in clarifying what aspects of
a new program would be important, a fact that helped guide the college’s choice on a new hauler. They also
helped formulate the statement of policy. Stancil affirmed that the EAC is committed to seeing this happen and will cooperate
given the opportunity. “We want to work with the administration in establishing a program,” she said.

Gyatso talks in the 900 Room

Story continued from Front page

is in its first year at Davidson and seeks to educate the community about the human rights violations occurring in
Tibet and other parts of the world. Davidson’s chapter of SFT is part of a larger network of college campuses
that support SFT; the organization was started in 1994. The official statement of the Davidson SFT group notes that: “We
intend to highlight elements of the history, religion and culture of the Tibetan people that are relevant to the liberal
education of the Davidson student, noting issues of social justice, globalism, and cultural and ethnic autonomy along the way. Though
we subscribe to the goal of freeing Tibet, the true battle is for the mind of the apathetic - a
battle which can be won with contagious energy, enthusiasm and participation.”

SFT co-coordinators Aditi Sethi '02 and Jeremy Campbell ’02 have organized two major campus events designed to raise awareness for
Tibetan freedom. Gyatso was the first SFT-hosted speaker. In April, the Gaden Sharste Monks will come to Davidson, where they
will hold a sand mandala and spiritual healing sessions.

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS SEEKING PAID TUTORS

THE AVID PROGRAM (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)

AMID IS a program designed to prepare middle achieving students in grades 6-12 for four-year college and university entry and
success. If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you
are a candidate for this position. You must be:

- Enrolled in a college or university with good academic standing
- Able to work in a supportive manner with middle level and high school students and teachers
- Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
- Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
- Willing to receive three hours training in the AVID teaching methodology
- An excellent role model for motivated, organized and successful students
- Representative of a balanced academic background

Term of employment: 1999-2000 academic school year
Salary: $17.50 per hour

For additional information, please complete and return to the following:

Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools
AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street
Suite 506
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
(704) 343-6975

AVID TUTORS

(Personal information)

Name:
Mailing Address:
Telephone:
Message Telephone:
OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99
College/University:
Middle or High School preference:
