4. By Tripp Cherry, Stephen Cefalu, and Bro Kirit
Sports Writers

Ton reaches for a steal on Sat.

Davidson vs. Charlotte 49ers
Tuesday, December 8th @ 7:30 PM
Belk Arena (Davidson, NC)
L 71-62

This year’s annual battle for the Hornets’ Nest Trophy gave the 4,243 fans that packed Belk Arena their money’s worth. Unfortunately, the Wildcats fell just a little short against the talented UNCC 49ers. With the score tied at 50 and under seven minutes remaining in the game, UNCC senior forward Galen Young took over, scoring the 49ers’ next nine points. Young’s outburst pushed UNCC out to a 59-52 lead with 3:58 to play, and they never looked back, holding on for a 71-62 victory. The Wildcats had plenty of opportunities to put the game away but shot only 30% from the field for the night. The ‘Cats were led by Ali Ton’s 16 points and six assists. Emeka Erege was also very impressive, scoring a career-high 14 points and grabbing nine rebounds. UNCC later defeated #3 Cincinnati.

Davidson vs. Bowdoin College
Saturday, December 12th @ 3:00 PM
Belk Arena (Davidson, NC)
W 94-58

In the middle of exam week, the Davidson Wildcats dominated Division III Bowdoin College in every aspect of the game, leading to a 36-point victory. The outcome of the game was never in doubt as the Wildcats built a 20-point halftime lead. All of the ‘Cats scored in the game, led by Ben Ebong’s 19 points and nine rebounds. Chadd Holmes and Davor Halbauer each scored 14 points. Ali Ton moved closer to the Davidson career assist record with nine assists in the game. Ebong brought the crowd to life with two thunderous dunks, one of them coming on a fast break from an Ali Ton pass off of the backboard.

Davidson vs. Washington College
Saturday, December 19th @ 3:00 PM
Belk Arena (Davidson, NC)
W 104-64

After a slow start, the Wildcats exploded in the second half for a 40-point thrashing of Division III Washington College. The ‘Cats trailed by as many as five in the first half before closing out the last six minutes of the half on a 15-7 run to go into the locker room with a 41-35 lead. Whatever coach Bob McKillop told his players at halftime worked. The ‘Cats came out of the locker room on fire, outscoring Washington 40-13 over the first 11 minutes of the second half. Emeka Erege led Davidson with a career-high 17 points. Landry Kosmalski had 16 points and Ben Ebong scored 14. Michael Bree had a great game off the bench, scoring 10 points and tallying four assists. All 12 Davidson players on the roster scored, and the Wildcats continued to dominate on the boards. Davidson outrebounded the Sho’men 40-22, led by Ali Ton’s eight rebounds. Ton also had eight assists and six points.

Rick Havner

Davidson vs. Univ. of Massachusetts
Tuesday, December 29th @ 8:00 PM
Mullins Center (Amherst, MA)
W 75-66 (OT)

Stunning. Destined to be remembered as one of the most significant victories in the McKillop era, the Wildcats demonstrated character and poise in coming from behind to shock Bruiser Flint’s Minutemen, an Atlantic 10 powerhouse, in overtime. Down 15 at the half (52-37) and then 10 (58-48) with just 5:56 to go, there seemed no real possibility for resuscitation. But then Davidson staged an epic rally, highlighted by Ali Ton’s coast-to-coast drives, Ben Ebong's thunderous baseline jam, and high-flying Emeka Erege’s critical offensive tip-in. The ‘Cats outscored UMASS 16-6 down the stretch to send the game to overtime. Had Ali Ton’s last-second bomb been on the mark, there might not even have been a need. Ton, dubbed “King of the World” by Davidson Wildcat radio broadcaster Frank Santore, finished with 14 points, 7 assists, and 4 steals. The Minutemen were no match for the ‘Cats in the bonus period. Despite having two top players fouled out (Stephen Marshall and Landry Kosmalski), Davidson still outscored UMASS 11-2 in the added frame. Having lost all their momentum in regulation, thanks in no small part to Lari (with an “I”) Ketner’s abysmal 6-15 free throw shooting performance, UMASS turned stone cold from the field in overtime, going 0-9. Ebong led the ‘Cats with 17 points and also collected 7 rebounds. Prior to fouling out, Landry Kosmalski hauled in a game-high 12 boards. When all was said and done in the post-game press conference, Bruiser Flint, his players, and all the UMASS fans had indeed received an education: “It’s in North Carolina, about 20 minutes north of Charlotte, a small liberal arts school.”

Stephen Marshall drives to the hoop vs. Univ.

Saturday, January 2nd, 1999
6:30 PM
Belk Arena (Davidson, NC)
W 82-73

In its nationally televised conference opener, a rematch of last year’s Southern Conference tournament championship, Davidson built an impressive first-half lead, stretching to 21 points at one time, and then successfully managed to hold on for the win despite the Mountaineers' vaunted second-half rally. Ali Ton reeled off 11 straight points out of the gate for Davidson, leaving 3,608 Belk Arena fans ecstatic and App. St. uncertain as to their whereabouts. App. St. gradually chipped away, though, at Davidson’s 46-29 halftime lead throughout the second half until the ‘Cats led only 78-73 with thirty-two seconds remaining. Davidson was able to seal the victory by scoring the game’s final four points from the foul line. The Mountaineers’ Marshall Phillips led all scorers with 23 points. He also had 12 rebounds. Landry “Special K” Kosmalski paced the ‘Cats with 18 points and 14 boards, his second straight double-double. Ali Ton had 16 points, 4 assists, and 2 steals. Davor Halbauer poured in 14 points, and Stephen Marshall contributed 13.Davidson Wildcats vs. VMI
Monday, January 4th @ 7:00 PM
Cameron Hall (Lexington, VA)
W 85-64

Davidson opened up a three-game road trip in Lexington, Virginia with an 85-64 victory over VMI, stretching their win streak to five. The Wildcats showed their superior depth and balance with four players scoring in double figures and 11 players scoring in all. Ben Ebong and Landry Kosmalski led the ‘Cats with 14 points each. Emeka Erege and Davor Halbauer also contributed 12 and 11 points, respectively. Ebong also had 10 rebounds, rounding out the double-double. Ali Ton continued his great all-around play with six points, 10 assists, five rebounds, and two steals. VMI was led by Jason Bell’s 36 points, but the ‘Cats more than made up for Bell’s performance with their shooting and rebounding. The ‘Cats outrebounded the Keydets 47-21 and outshot them 54.5% to 35.4%. The only negative to come out of the game for the Wildcats was a late-game injury to Jeff Bergmann. Bergmann went up for a dunk on a fast break and dislocated his elbow after landing on it wrong. He will miss a few weeks of action.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1999
The Wildcats in brief: Recapping Davidson Men’s Basketball action

Saturday, January 9th @ 7:30 PM
Memorial Center (Johnson City, TN)
L 82-75

The ‘Cats arrived at Memorial Center in Johnson City on January 9th with continuity on their minds. The plan was simple enough: They would conquer ETSU for the eighth straight time and bolster their current winning streak to six games in a row on the season and seventeen straight in the Southern Conference. It would all be quick and easy. Only someone forgot to tell ETSU’s senior forward Greg Stephens. In “the zone” from the moment he stepped on the floor, Stephens scorched the ‘Cats until the final buzzer. He finished with 31 points, shooting 11-17 from the field. To call him prolific would be an understatement. “He made some extraordinary shots. I tip my hat to him. There aren’t too many college players who have nights like that,” said Davidson skipper Bob McKillop.

Which is not to say that Davidson was never close in the game. The ‘Cats in fact went to the locker room up a point, 42-41. The lead came thanks mainly to “Big Dog” Ben Ebong’s monstrous 17-point first-half scoring performance. But ETSU’s halftime chalk session seemingly worked wonders as Ebong was held to just two points in the second half, finishing with 19 in total, along with 11 rebounds (his second consecutive double-double). If Ebong’s offensive proficiency disappeared in the second half, he was not alone among the ‘Cats. Tied 48-48 early in the second frame, the ‘Cats watched ETSU reel off 13 straight unanswered points. McKillop could only shake his head in frustration and utter disbelief as ETSU connected on nearly everything they threw up down the stretch. The ‘Bucs finished 57% from the field (53% from behind the 3-point arc), and 68% from the line. Down 73-63 with approximately three and a half minutes left in regulation, McKillop and his troops had all but packed their bags. Then Landry Kosmalski stepped up and knocked down two three-pointers in rapid succession to cut ETSU’s lead down to four and make things interesting again. Davidson came up the floor with two minutes to go looking to cut the ‘Bucs dwindling lead to a mere bucket. But it was not to be. A low-post entry pass got lost somewhere in the Johnson City night, and 3,475 rowdy ETSU ‘Bucs fans climbed to their feet for a hearty, long-awaited shout of triumph. Davidson could only play out an ineffectual score and foul strategy until the final buzzer sounded and confirmed the end to their Johnson City win streak. Davidson’s Landry Kosmalski finished with 14 points and 6 rebounds. Emeka Erege fouled out late in the game after contributing 10 points and 6 rebounds. Chadd Homes chipped in 10 points in just 15 minutes of action. Ali Ton handed out 7 assists on the night, leaving him just one shy of the all-time Davidson Wildcat record. ETSU’s Reggie Todd had 13 points and 6 rebounds to complement Stephens’s efforts.

Monday, January 11th, 1999 @ 7:30 PM
Fleming Gym (Greensboro, NC)
L 73-67

The ‘Cats ran into fits trying to dismantle UNCG’s solid zone defense and ultimately proved incapable. Davidson led only once in the game, 26-25. The Spartans bolstered their 32-30 halftime lead with a 16-5 run over the first five and a half minutes of the second half. Davidson staged a number of late rallies, bombing away from 3-pt. land at a clip of 10 for 29 on the night, but came up short. The ‘Cats shot only 43% from the line, while the Spartans shot 85%. Emeka Erege, due to early foul trouble, was limited to only sixteen minutes of action, finishing with 0 points and just 1 rebound. In humbling Davidson, UNCG earned its first Southern Conference victory of the season. Sophomore guard Nathan Jameson led the Spartans with 23 points. For Davidson, Ben Ebong earned his third straight double-double with a 14-point, 10-rebound performance. Landry Kosmalski had a double-double of his own, scoring 13 points and hauling in 14 rebounds. Davor Halbauer chipped in 12 points and Michael Bree finished with a career-high 11. Seemingly lost amidst the ‘Cats dismal performance was the celebration of Ali Ton’s breaking the all-time Davidson Wildcats assist record, previously held by Chris Alpert ‘96. Entering the game against UNCG, Ton needed only two assists to break the record. The Turkish-born senior point guard finished with 11, along with 9 points and 5 steals.