6 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1999

O’Brien, ’Cats topple Jackie Smith and Furman, once again

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Riding a late-season surge, the Lady Wildcats entered the quarterfinal round of the Southern Conference Tournament last Friday afternoon at
Greensboro. The brackets pitted the fourth-seeded Wildcats against fifth-ranked Furman University. Davidson defeated Furman in both of their regular season
conference match-ups this season for the first time ever. In Friday’s quarterfinal match, Davidson was faced with the challenge of
making it three straight against Furman and their star forward Jackie Smith, selected the Southern Conference’s Most Valuable Player for
the season and a contender for All-American honors.

Showing unprecedented levels of intensity and euphoria, the Wildcats pounced out to a 36-18 halftime lead against Furman. The run
was fueled by a fast-paced transition game under the command of junior point guard Jen O’Brien. Kerry and Jamie Brown
finished break after break with a string of picturesque jumpers. “It helps when we're hitting shots like that. Kerry doesn’t
miss from the baseline. And Jamie doesn’t miss either,” said O’Brien. “I'd be spinning my head out there if I
weren’t on their team.”

Instead, it was the head of Furman Coach Sherry Carter that was spinning. “I don’t think we played very well.
We were very tentative. We were afraid to shoot, afraid to drive.” Davidson’s bench, particularly sophomore posts Kim Taylor and
Jessica Heath, came through strong in the first half. “Their bench is very tall, they’re big rebounders,” conceded Coach Carter.
“They can come in and play a role. That’s what you want a bench to do, they do a good
job of that.”

“I think you saw one of the better halves in the first half that we’ve played all season,” said Wildcat
coach John Filar. “We got fantastic shots and great looks at the basket.”

Midway through the second half, Furman benched starting point guard Tara Charles and went to freshman guard Althea Bufford. Bufford
sparked a Furman comeback that brought the game within a point with under a minute to play. “You have to
credit Furman with picking their defense up in the second half,” said Filar. “We probably should have made the (point
guard) change earlier,” admitted Carter. “She did a great job of getting out on the break and running. Her presence,
her defense and quickness, helped us to play a different style. Our guards weren’t getting it done, and Althea came
in and was a great spark. That was the difference in the last ten minutes of the game.”

But the ultimate difference was...

Jamie Brown huddles her teammates.

Montrella-less ’Cats fall to ASU in finals

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

‘Tis better to have loved and lost...

The Lady Wildcats flirted with a championship title in the Southern Conference Tournament, reaching the final game before falling 78-69
to Appalachian State University last Sunday. Davidson, playing without the services of senior Jess Montrella - who injured her knee
in the previous night’s semi-final game, just couldn’t spark an offensive attack against Appalachian State’s impenetrable zone defense.

“We felt that as long as they stayed in their man-to-man defense that we'd have the quickness to take them
off the dribble, but when they went to the zone we got real cold,” said head coach John Filar. “We
just never really found a rhythm again, we never got into a smooth ball movement.”

Davidson could not pull the Mountaineers out of their zone, as Wildcat shooters were ice-cold around the perimeter, shooting 11%
(2 of 18) from the 3-point line until the game’s final two minutes. The absence of Montrella in the middle
was felt not only on both ends of the court, but...also in the lack of her rebounding ability that so
often sparked Davidson’s transition offense. “(Davidson has) a very good running game. We’re not quick enough to stop their running
game, but if somebody can do that, it will give them some problems,” predicted Furman coach Sherry Carter after her
Lady Paladins lost to the ‘Cats in the tournament quarterfinals. Sure enough, Appalachian State was able to stall Davidson’s trademark
running game. “We just had a really tough time getting the transition game going, and that’s a big part of
our offense,” admitted coach Filar. Appalachian’s Beth Schoolfield scored 24 points on her way to earning Tournament Most Outstanding Player
honors. “We ran into a team that is playing extremely well, offensively and defensively,” confessed Filar. “They have always given
us trouble with their defense. We were a little depleted to begin with, and our foul trouble made that worse.”
After scoring 92 points the previous night, Davidson’s offense (the best in the conference) was held to only 69. “It
was really hard,” said Jess Montrella, who watched the game on crutches from the sideline. “As soon as I was
injured in the game yesterday I knew that it was pretty bad and that I wasn’t going to play... (But)
I knew that we could win with or without me... I felt good that I had been a part that
we had made it here and I was happy about that.” From the start of conference play, it was readily
apparent that any number of teams could take home the banner. Furman’s coach Sherry Carter speculated, “Anybody could win it.
They might as well have the commissioner come in, throw the top six teams into the hat, and just pick
one out.” Davidson’s coach pondered a pragmatic explanation on that very same thought: “We got hot for two days,” said
Filar, “and Appalachian got hot for three.”

Photo by Mike Anderson
An intense Kerry Brown drives to the basket against UNC-G.

After fouling out of Sunday’s contest, Coach Filar looks on as an anxious Jess Montrella comes out of the tunnel
on crutches. made by Davidson’s point guard, Jen O’Brien. The conference’s leader in assists and steals secured the victory with
a pair of clutch free throws with just seconds left in the game. Those two free throws earned O’Brien her
999th and 1000th career points. “At the end of the game when Jen O’Brien stepped up to the free throw
line, all I could think is that this is exactly who we want there right now,” commended Jamie Brown. “Jen
is so much of a leader. Off the court she’s a leader, and on the court she keeps our team
under control. I’m very proud for Jen that she’s been able to accomplish this. She’s deserved it and she’s worked
very hard.” After being swept this season by Davidson, Furman coach Carter wondered if her team could have conceivably matched
up against the ‘Cats. “I think that’s irrelevant now. I don’t care to beat them in intramurals. That’s not really
something I think about at this point, if we could beat them now. Because our season’s over.” Davidson’s season was
far from over, having earned the chance to match up against UNC-Greensboro in the tournament’s semi-final contest. “We would have
loved to have kept that 25-point lead, rather than having the game go down to the wire,” said Filar. “We
know now that we’re tournament-tested. We know we had a tough game and we pulled it out when we had
to. This game, down the road, is going to help us much more so tomorrow.” The ensuing 30 hours would
turn John Filar’s words into epic prophecy.

Photo by Mike Anderson
Jamie Brown looks on as ASU seals the SCT victory.
