“Principle before person.” The words sound cold, but they are true. Rep. Dick Armey (R) of Texas emphasized this phrase in his argument supporting the articles of impeachment in the House of Representatives on December 19th. The House impeached President Clinton on that historic day, but it remains to be seen whether or not the Senate will also vote to remove the President from office. Two out of four Articles passed. Article I indicts President Clinton for perjury. Article II asserts that he obstructed justice. After both the trial and voting are complete, we will have a better idea of where this country stands with respect to principle.

The House impeached Andrew Johnson in 1868 when he fired his secretary of war contrary to the opinion of Congress. President Johnson survived impeachment in the Senate by a single vote. For 131 years no other President has ever been tried on such a grand scale. President Richard Nixon resigned before facing a vote in the House following the Watergate scandal. The uncertainty of this trial results from infrequent impeachment proceedings. In other words, there is not much precedent. The Senators want to follow the Constitution as closely as possible. But, the Constitution also grants the Senate a wide berth in order to proceed as it sees fit. That is what is great about the Constitution. It provides direction but allows for change.

Chief Justice William Rehnquist is presiding over the trial. The 100 Senators are acting as jurors. Senators may ask questions only in writing. Beyond those details, much has yet to be determined. The trial details must be established. Different groups support different choices. But most want a speedy trial. Should witnesses be allowed to testify? Only time will tell. I think that the trial should not drag on, but I believe that the Senate should consider what it must in order to make a sound decision. If that means calling witnesses such as Monica Lewinsky, then so be it.

What has disturbed me for so long about President Clinton’s actions is that no one is willing to face the facts. So many people want a speedy trial. Many support censure instead of impeachment. Some polls indicate that Americans don’t care what President Clinton does behind closed doors just as long as he runs the country well. Others say that his private life is none of our business. I say this: President Clinton made his private life our business when he cheated on his wife, lied to a grand jury, and lied to every American citizen face to face. President Clinton should be impeached. Nothing more, and certainly nothing less. Censure should not even be an option in this case. The Senate should try the President. They should not accept an under-the-table deal. Length cannot get in the way of justice.

President Clinton could have ended this matter last January if he had only admitted his mistake then. But his lying, deceitful, and manipulating ways prolonged the issue. What’s done is done. No one can go back in time and change anything that President Clinton did. Now that the facts are out, the Senate must address them properly. There is no doubt in my mind that President Clinton should be impeached. I am sure that he would love this to drag on so long that it is dropped because everyone is sick of the issue. No one should be. It is a national issue, and every American citizen should know.the facts. Everyone should care because the moral issues at stake affect each and every one of us. For an analysis, let’s consider that President Clinton were a student at Davidson. The Honor Code doesn’t allow anyone to lie. Under our law, or in effect our constitution, President Clinton would be forced to leave the school for violating its most sacred rule. How would you feel if a student lied to your face and then received a slap on the wrist? That wouldn’t be right, would it? The Constitution is our country’s most sacred law. President Clinton broke our country’s laws by lying to a grand jury. That is why he should be forced to leave his Presidential office. President Clinton did this to himself. He is the only person that can be held responsible. We should support the principle of honor that is at stake. We cannot support the person because he violated that principle. President Clinton would be forced to leave Davidson, and he should be impelled to leave office. I believe that the Senate should impeach him.

The holy fast of Ramazan

For nearly a month now, 1.6 billion Muslims have been observing the holy fast of Ramazan, the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar. Muslims spend the month in prayer, reciting the Holy Quran, asking repentance for their sins. The fast constitutes the fourth pillar of Islam, or Sawm, which literally means fasting. Sawm is absolutely mandatory, unless you are ill, pregnant, a minor, or insane. During the entire month, Muslims awake early in the morning before dawn, sehri, eating something before the inception of the fast. After making an intention during sehri, Muslims abstain from eating, drinking (including water), and indulging in sexual activity from sunrise till sunset. Muhammad (pbuh), the last prophet of Islam, said, “Whosoever eats during one day of Ramazan, without a valid excuse (acceptable religiously), shall never be able to recoup that day even by fasting for the rest of his life.”

Well, what’s the point? Why do 1.6 billion people starve themselves and chant strange phrases in some incomprehensible language called Arabic? First, Sawm is an order from Allah (swt). Al-Quran says: “O those who believe! Fasting is prescribed for you, even as it was prescribed for those before you, that you may ward off evil....He who fasts abandons the lust and craving of his appetite for My sake.” Incidentally, the Gospel writers tell us that even Jesus fasted in the desert for forty days and forty nights. Remarkably, fasting creates a Zen awareness. We become pious and show humility before Allah (swt). The pangs of starvation remind us how fortunate we are—how much God has given us—and at times, ungrateful. Sawm allows Muslims to experience hardship for the sake of Allah (swt). We struggle throughout the day trying to train our minds. The task intensifies in a non-Muslim setting. Fasting strengthens a person’s faith in the oneness of God and the realization of an awaiting death. Muslims believe that a single fast of Ramazan is more valuable than a lifetime of fasts outside Ramazan. Moreover, Ramazan creates a democratic ideal of equality. Whether rich or poor, educated or ignorant, well-mannered or rustic, each Muslim is equal before the eyes of Allah (swt). The entire Muslim ummah (brotherhood) unites as a single entity of religious submission. At the end of the month, Muslims gather all over the world and celebrate together Eid, a festival of thanksgiving.