4 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1999

Phonathon
By HEATHER HITE
Staff Writer

This year the Davidson College Phonathon, which began on March 9th and will end on April 1, is being held in the basement of the Student Health Center. Both the location and time have changed since last year. Chris Knox, Assistant Director of the Annual Fund, is overseeing the fundraiser. Knox said that the changes have been beneficial, saving the College thousands of dollars. The move occurred because the Health Center already has phones set up in contrast to the previous location in Chambers Gallery. This year, the phonathon lasts a month instead of one intensive week so that the existing phones in the Health Center can be used and no new phones have to be set up.

The phonathon helps bridge the gap between the cost of tuition and the actual cost of educating each student. Tuition only covers 60% of the cost of educating each student, and the Phonathon accounts for another 10%. Participants in the Phonathon call alumni and parents of current students to solicit donations to the Annual Fund, which subsidizes the college budget. Knox hopes to receive 53% support from alumni this year. In addition to requesting donations, the participants also update information about alumni, such as their home addresses and email addresses, for the College’s computer databases.

Knox noted that participation in the phonathon has been elicited through the assistance of RLO and SGA. RLO has included participation in the phonathon in hall programs through hall counselors and resident advisors. Knox said, “our cooperation with RLO has really helped to increase student participation.” In addition, the SGA has lent support by supplying volunteers to take up several nights of the phonathon. Knox also mentioned that Dave Fagg, Assistant Director of the Athletic Foundation, comes every night.

The participants are trained by student managers. These student managers are employed by the College to make 6 hours of calls each week. During the phonathon, they also train volunteers. There are two slots per night, one from 5:45 to 7:30 and the other from 7:15 to 9:00, with eight people per session. The Annual Fund gives students prizes, such as gift certificates and prize money, throughout the night. Also, a competition between the classes, with a grand prize of $100 and dinner with President Vagt, provides an incentive. If you are interested in participating in the phonathon please call Chris Knox at x2831.

Noted attorney to speak
COLLEGE RELATIONS

Jim Hamilton, a Washington, D.C. attorney who has tangled with Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr, will speak at Davidson College about “How the Independent Counsel Law Has Poisoned Washington.” Hamilton’s address, which is free and open to the public, will begin at 2:30 p.m. on Friday, March 30, in the 900 Room of the Grey College Union.

Hamilton, a Davidson alumnus and former assistant chief counsel for the Senate Watergate Committee, refused in 1995 to give Starr handwritten notes from a meeting with the late Vincent Foster, deputy White House counsel. Hamilton argued that the notes were protected after Foster’s death by the attorney-client privilege and the work product privilege. In 1998, Hamilton made his case before the Supreme Court (Swidler & Berlin and James Hamilton v. United States), and the court agreed that the notes were covered by the attorney-client privilege.

Hamilton majored in English and philosophy at Davidson, graduating in 1960. He received his LL.B from Yale Law School and a LL.M in international law from the London School of Economics. His distinguished career in the nation’s capital includes such high-profile assignments as chairing the D.C. Legal Ethics Committee, serving as special counsel to a Senate subcommittee investigating the 1980 presidential election, and holding a post on the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. Former Senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr. (D-N.C.) once referred to Hamilton as “one of the best lawyers of his age.” He is the author of “The Power to Probe: A Study of Congressional Investigations,” as well as numerous articles. Hamilton is currently a partner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of Swidler Berlin Shereff Friedman.

Hamilton’s address at Davidson is part of a day-long celebration of the George Lawrence Abernethy Endowment, which honors theMemory of this beloved professor of religion and philosophy who taught at the college from 1946-1976 and founded Davidson’s nationally recognized two-year Humanities program. The endowment strengthens the intellectual life of Davidson College by funding collaborative student-faculty research, cross-cultural study opportunities, and public lectures — all related to current world conditions in ethics, health, politics, and comparative religion.

Mountains. 
° New! Biodiversity Biosphere Reserve.
Office of Student Admissions
¢ Earth Systems Field School - Session I
The complex, interdependent, and dynamic nature of the Earth system is revealed most clearly by spending time in the field. Students earn 6 Columbia credits as they conduct mini-projects at field sites in the Grand Canyon, Petrified Forest, and Santa Catalina. This 6-week course begins June 7 and ends on July 16, 1999.

¢ Earth Systems Field School - Session II
Students of this program receive an intensive introduction to the physical, chemical, biological, and social issues involved in operating ecosystems inside Biosphere 2. Day field trips are planned throughout southern Arizona. This 4-week course begins July 26 and ends on Aug. 20, 1999. Students will examine the unprecedented loss of global biodiversity occurring today. Instruction includes classroom lectures, readings from the original literature, lab and computer exercises, field exercises, and field trips. Field sites include the Sea of Cortez, Sonoran Desert, Catalina and Santa Rita Mountains, and Pinacates. This 5-week course begins June 7 and ends on July 9, 1999. For more information and application materials contact us at:
Biosphere 2 Center
PO Box 689
Oracle, AZ 85623
(800) 992-4603
admissions@bio2.edu

EARTH SYSTEMS FIELD SCHOOL

Women’s Month Continued from page 1
The final student to speak related a rape experience that occurred this fall at Davidson. This student poignantly ended her talk with a letter written to her by a friend, praising the student for her strength in dealing with the situation of her rape. The three student speakers emphasized the importance of the time needed for healing from sexual assault and also the need to view victims as survivors.

After the three speakers, Meredith Beattie '01, the president of the Rape Awareness Committee, spoke to the audience. She identified the victims of sexual assault as individuals, saying, “Tonight we are not focusing on numbers and statistics, but on the victims. The purpose of rape awareness is to realize that these individuals in front of you are survivors and are living.” Beattie also thanked the audience for attending the event.

Following Beattie, Murray closed the event, asking the audience to exit in silence. Before the event was dismissed, Rev. Brenda Tapia, Assistant Chaplain and Director of the Love of Learning program, came before the audience with a few words. She gave two brief readings about scars and acts of faith from a Yorba priestess. “We must be willing to admit our wounds exist,” Tapia said, “and then wrap them in the most potent antiseptic that exists—love.” She also quoted the poet Maya Angelou’s words, saying that “no woman is healed until all women are healed.”

As the audience exited in silence, red ribbons and candles were passed out to remember the sexual assault victims. People tied the red ribbons to trees in front of the Union and congregated for candle lighting. Afterwards, a reception followed in the 900 room of the Union. Worrell said, “this coffee shop-like reception went really well. It provided a good transition period. When I left at 10:30, people were still there talking and processing the evening’s events.” Worrell also commented on the success of the night. “The speakers did a wonderful job,” she said, “it’s hard to imagine detaching what happened to you in front of 500-plus people.” She also added, “The details of their stories is not why we have Take Back the Night. It’s about another step in furthering the healing process for the survivors.”

STUDY IN OXFORD
Live with British students in the very center of Oxford as an Associate Student of a medieval Oxford college. Summer and graduate study available. Since 1985, students from 240 leading U.S. Colleges have studied in Oxford through W.I.S.C.
Washington International Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. (Suite 370)
Washington, D.C. 20002
Phone Number: (202) 547-3275
Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC
Facsimile: (202) 547-1470
E-mail: wisc@erols.com