THE DAVIDSONIAN — David Rosenberg _ TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1999

End the sergeant’s suffering

Late at night, if you think you hear a kitten whimpering outside above every other of nature’s noises, you don’t
have to worry that he might be a hungry stray. If you think a howling dog might be outside your
window, don’t worry about calling the dog catcher. The shrill, high-pitched whining is not an animal. For that student whom
you see bent over and grabbing his right hand, you don’t have to call the infirmary. It is most likely
Scott Buchanan groveling in pain.

Officially, he is the Sergeant-at-Arms of Patterson Court Council. He writes up the sanctions for the Judicial Board when they
decide on a fraternity’s punishment. These days, his hand has been doing some serious cramping. He has been a busy
guy. Last week, it was Sig Ep and KA. This week it is SAE. Next week, it will be Kappa
Sig and KA up for sanctions again. Poor guy, he must be exhausted. Get him some treatment — or some
disability compensation for when he is older. Maybe acupuncture would be enough, but at least stop by his room and
give him some ice.

Many see Dean Shandley as the culprit of Buchanan’s suffering. Some students believe Shandley thinks of himself as Shandley: avenger
of fun and protector of a non-social environment. With his supersonic hearing, even three miles away, they say he can
hear the sound of a pledge being blindfolded. Rumors claim he is faster than a Pika on speed, more powerful
than the local policemen, and able to end a fraternity’s charter with a single stroke. But he’s not. He just
does his job. As a matter of fact, he’d rather have the drinking age changed back to 18, for it
would make his job a lot easier. He understands that without Patterson Court, Davidson has little else for entertainment. He
is on the students’ side. SuperDean of students: a superhero regulator of every aspect of student life at Davidson.

It’s those trustees and the faculty. They breathe down his neck like the Godfather and his cohorts. To them, it’s
all about reputation. Not only do they feel The Court takes away from the academic focus of the college, but
they fear a small fraternity incident might bring embarrassment to their community. And with them, reputation is everything. Late at
night, it is rumored Dean Shandley hears intimidating knocks at his door as he reviews outrageous J-Board sanctions. They step
in and command with their Italian inflections, “It’s either your brains or your signature on this contract. And don’t you
disrespect us! You disrespect us, you disrespect the Davidson Family.”

With this past week’s happening, SAE finds itself stuck in a prototypical Catch-22. To meet stipulations, the fraternity cannot return
to campus until they have paid off all of their debt. But SAE is also forbidden to meet and without
an official meeting, brothers cannot pay dues. Without payment of dues, SAE will never climb out of debt. Most likely,
we will never see SAE on the Davidson campus again. The school has taken away a college experience of thirty
brothers for an inconsequential violation. So please, end Buchanan’s suffering. Stop the sanctions. With hope, the faculty and trustees will
put enough trust in the Honor Code to allow students to decide what deserves punishment and what does not. That
way, they would save money not having to pay for Buchanan’s hand masseuse.

Get down with the 70s in E.H. Little

No, not the walk of shame, not the walk across the stage, not “The Walk of Life” (Dire Straits), and
not the walk up four flights of stairs at four in the morning just to get to your soft bed.
I’m talking about the walk into the E.H. Little Library. The gust of hypoxia hits as you walk through the
double doors, immediately sucking and squeezing the energy out to the netherworld. It drips, even pours, from the soles of
your Birks as you are immediately confused as to where to go next. Wait, your name is called; the walk
begins. You begin to circle the floor, first by the Internet computers and then by the copy machine in a
clockwise loop. Your body tells you the clock is wrong. Shouldn’t it be three hours later? You begin to languish.
You've socialized for a half-hour, and now you're ready for the pollux computers (a good break before you get to
the rest of your round). An hour after you crossed the threshold you are back where you started— at the
front of the stairs. Up or down? Your legs say down. You find a carrel, sit, and take out your
planned work. It's enough to occupy at least twenty-four hours (perfect for the dungeon downstairs). The first book is cracked,
and that’s all you can say for your eye-lids. You try one elbow, then two connected to the tabletop, supporting
your head with eye-opening thumbs. Your fleece is soft, the greens, oranges, and reds of the seventies have ironically put
you to sleep.

The gust of hypoxia hits as you walk through...

Ros SPACH

Solidarity with gays: a Christian perspective

Not all Christians believe that the love by two homosexual people is wrong.That statement seems to me like a commonplace,
so obvious that it hardly bears writing down. Yet several conversations I’ve had over the past few months have convinced
me that many people in our community don’t realize that devout Christians strongly disagree about this issue. At the FLAG
meeting last week, we discussed why Davidson does not feel like a place where gay and lesbian students, faculty, and
staff can be forthright about their sexual orientation. Much of it has to do with our wider cultural ambiance, of
course, so in a way it is no surprise. One student, however, remarked that whenever she is around her Christian
friends on campus and the topic of homosexuality arises, they invariably speak of it in condemnation. What a contrast to
my own experience here! The vast majority of Christians with whom I come into contact, whether they be students, faculty,
staff, area clergy who work with students, or chaplains at other colleges, have a vastly different perspective, one that is
affirming of gays and lesbians.

Of course, I’m aware that many Christians view homosexual relationships as wrong. I respect their point of view even though
I don’t agree with it. Most, if not all, of my sisters and brothers in Christ with this view base
their convictions not upon homophobia, close-mindedness, or prejudice, but upon a considered reading of the Bible which convinces them that
the genuinely honest and loving stance to hold is that homosexual practice is destructive to people and also sinful. Many
mainline denominations, including Presbyterians, Methodists, and Catholics, have explicit church policies to that effect. Among the members of those denominations
themselves, however, there is tremendous divergence of opinion, and there are signs of increasing support for gays and lesbians. When
legislation condemning homosexual relationships was voted on by Presbyterians in the past few years, it passed by only a small
majority.

In dealing with this issue, and more importantly, with the ways we respond to gay and lesbian people in this
community, we ought not focus primarily on the seven biblical verses that make negative reference to same-gender sex and selected
other passages like the creation narratives. Careful interpretation of such verses suggests to many scholars and believers that these passages
are finally irrelevant to contemporary institutions. Lesbians and gays can certainly be counted among those for whom we should all
be working for justice. Moreover, this same gospel also calls us to righteousness, which means that our most intimate relationships,
whether they be heterosexual or homosexual, should be characterized by mutuality, fidelity, kindness, respect, integrity, and commitment for the long
haul. For heterosexuals, this happens in marriage. Culturally and religiously, we haven’t yet given recognition to how this happens for
homosexuals—and that, it seems to me, is a terrible indictment against us.

So back to Davidson. Of course, this article won’t change what this place feels like for gays and lesbians. My
hope, however, is that we can move beyond thinking that there is “a Christian point of view” on the issue
of homosexuality on this campus; there are a variety of them. I also hope that lesbians and gays here will
be aware that there are many people of faith who want to stand beside them in solidarity, and to stand
there because that is where we believe God stands. I want this to be a campus where gays and lesbians
don’t just feel welcome, as if they were guests, but where they belong, because it is their place as much
as it is anyone else’s place. From my perspective as a Christian, their belonging arises from the same source as
my belonging: God. I believe that this place is finally not ours, it is God’s, and God’s love extends to
all, and therefore we all belong together.

My own reading of Scripture, and that of many of the Christians that I come into contact with on this
campus, leads me to the following conclusion: we need to listen to the broad message of the Bible, to the
coherent center of its proclamation about God’s abiding, life-giving love for all of creation. Christians believe that this good news
has been proclaimed and incarnated most fully by Jesus, whose life, death, and resurrection reveal to us vital truths about
God’s loving kindness and grace which embrace all people. This same gospel calls us to have a particular concern for
justice on behalf of those who are oppressed, excluded, pushed to the edges, and hurt deeply by prejudices in society
and religious institutions.
