By ELISABETH SMITH
Student Health Advisor

The numbers keep jumping: 5, 10, 15, 20... all of them Davidson t-shirts. The Charlotte area t-shirts have to be moved closer together so that Davidson women can tell all they want to tell on shirts of their own. The Davidson shirts aren’t just red, they’re also yellow and blue and green. (Each color signifies a different act of violence; red is rape, yellow is assault or domestic violence, and green and blue are incest.)

I’ve heard women on campus talk about how great it is that so many have made shirts only to quickly correct themselves for fear that they sound unfeeling. I mean, I’m sorry about whatever happened, but I’m glad that people are making shirts! I would just like to say right now with no regrets... IT’S THE BEST THING IN THE WORLD THAT WE HAVE SO MANY DAVIDSON SHIRTS!

No woman here is immune from danger; each of us could be raped or beaten or murdered by a man known or unknown on a given day. Statistics alone show that one in three women will be sexually assaulted in her lifetime. One in three. Women, grab two friends and look around—one of you will suffer a sexual assault.

So why are all the Davidson shirts a great thing? We need to realize that violence against women is real even here and we can do something about it. Each and every shirt in Chambers Lobby stands for a woman who has suffered and many more who haven't yet spoken up. The Davidson women who made shirts are on their way to recovery because they are able to put their private pain in such a public place.

The main success of this exhibit for me is the way that Chambers Lobby has been transformed into a truly sacred and special place. Every woman who sees the shirts has a responsibility: to mourn for these women and remember their stories as protection for the future. Every man who sees the exhibit also has a responsibility: to fight against such violence by standing up for women.

---

Mock trial brings exciting opportunities to Davidson

BY SETH DAVIS
Arts & Living Editor

The lawyer pauses in her cross-examination, fixing the witness with a searching stare. The witness, a middle-aged man in a starched white shirt and blue jean jacket, avoids her gaze and busily stares at the floor in front of him. At issue here is a man’s life, and the lawyer that stands in his defense needs to unravel the testimony of this witness. As her pause draws out for another moment, the world seems to hush. Such is the nature of courtroom drama.

Though it seems to be out of Hollywood, there are real-life legal dramas that echo the same tensions experienced by the lawyer and the witness in this scene. As Davidson students, we haven’t been able to stand in that lawyer’s shoes or sit in that witness stand. Until now.

With the founding of the Mock Trial organization here at Davidson, we now have the opportunity to experience the life of law as lawyers or witnesses. The American Mock Trial Association is a national organization that operates on the undergraduate level, providing interested students with the opportunity to be either witnesses or lawyers. Cases are created at the national level and disseminated throughout the undergraduate programs. Teams of lawyers and witnesses compete in both mock criminal and civil cases.

Davidson had been without Mock Trial until sophomore Jessica Bogo, an executive board member of the Pre-Law Society, founded the organization this semester. Response to the founding was striking. Already there are six teams with three lawyers each; half of those teams have alternate lawyers. Other students have signed on to these teams to be witnesses.

Mock Trial teams are composed of witnesses and lawyers, with both contributing to the team in integral ways. The lawyers present the case to the judges through their direct and cross-examinations. The witnesses act out their roles and answer the questions asked of them during direct or cross-examination based on the character and facts encased in the statements provided to them by the national organization.

The Mock Trial organization’s faculty advisor is Sharon Green, a professor in the Theatre Department. The six Mock Trial teams also have the help of four attorney coaches. Two of these attorney coaches, Karen Marston and Valecia McDowell, work with the law firm of Moore & Van Allen in Charlotte. The other two attorney coaches, Bart Landess and Matt Merrell, work in Davidson.

The Mock Trial teams will be working on preparation for upcoming competitions. Anyone interested in being part of one of the teams as a witness please call Jessica Bogo at x6050.

---

Davidson College Will Host North Carolina Dance Theatre

By STRATTON LAWRENCE
Guest Writer

The North Carolina Dance Theatre (NCDT) will hold a residency of performances and master classes at Davidson Thursday through Saturday, November 11-13. The performances will be part of Davidson's annual Artists Series, occurring Friday at 8 p.m., and Saturday at2 p.m. and 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall of Cunningham

ESTATE AUCTION
(The living estate of Lewis & Catherine Wilson)
REAL & PERSONAL PROPERTY
SATURDAY, NOV. 13™
10AM - PERSONAL PROPERTY (preview Nov 12 10AM-4PM)
12 NOON — REAL ESTATE
1833 SHEARERS RD., DAVIDSON, NC

LARGE HOME & 30 ACRE FARM TO BE OFFERED IN TRACTS AND IN ITS ENTIRETY
Home consists of approx. 3,000 sq. ft. under roof, 2,000 heated, approx. 1,000 in garage and large shop area. Approx. 30 acres of Prime Davidson land. Barns, Storage buildings, Pasture, Timber, Fruit Trees, Flower Gardens, Vegetable Gardens, Giant Oak Trees, Large Pecan Trees, Road Frontage, Etc.

Tract 1: Home & approx. 3 acres;
Tract 2: Approx. 5 acre mini farm;
Tract 3: Commercial/Income Property (currently leased at $700 per month);
Tract 4: Approx. 10 acre mini farm,
Tract 5: Approx. 10 acre mini farm.

Call for real estate information package!
REAL ESTATE TO BE SOLD BY ACCELERATED REAL ESTATE MARKETING GROUP
828-649-1210 OR 828-645-8822
Bill Ramsey, NCAL 2789

Fine Arts Building. Admission is $14 for adults, and $10 for senior citizens. The first two shows will include a post-performance reception with the artists. All performances will include interpretations of Debussy’s “Syrinx,” Beethoven’s “Sonata Pathetique,” Stravinsky's “Duo Concertant,” and Paul Taylor’s renowned “Esplanade.”

The public is also invited to view a free masterclass conducted on Thursday from 7-8:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall by NCDT Associate Artistic Director Patricia McBride. This is NCDT’s 30th anniversary season, and Artistic Director Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux calls the program “the most ambitious repertoire ever.” He pointed especially to the performance of “Esplanade,” which translates everyday actions such as walking, running, jumping, and skipping into an exhilarating dance vocabulary. Bonnefoux commented, “We perform with pride and a level of artistic excellence that will make audiences stand up and applaud.”

NCDT has created a 30th anniversary season color poster from a painting by Davidson College art professor Herb Jackson. The original artwork was featured in NCDT’s season-opening performance in early October. Copies of the limited edition poster, priced at $30 for signed and $20 for unsigned, will be for sale in the lobby at all Davidson performances.

NCDT has established itself as one of America’s premier dance companies under the leadership of Bonnefoux, McBride, and Associate Director Jerri Kumery. For more information on the Davidson events, call 892-2135 weekdays from 1:30 to 5:30 p.m., or visit NCDT’s web page at www.ncdance.org.

By Setu Davis

Davidson Students will display their art in Charlotte

FARM AND SHOP EQUIPMENT, including Massey-Ferguson Farm Tractor/Front end loader model 254/4 Ser#222 M01272 with M/F front end loader model 236, 4X4 1 1/4 yd bucket, forks, diesel, good condition, one owner. Also, bush hog landscape mower (3 pt.), plows, disc, harrows, grain drills, seeders, rollers, rakes, 3 pt. concrete mixer, mulchers, riding lawn mowers, chippers, yard vacuums, air compressor, tire changer, band saws, radial arm saw, Miller welder, ShopMate scroll saw in box, chain saws, power tools, hand tools, woodworking tools, torch set, tool boxes, work benches, platform scales, cattle gates, calf pens, ss meat room equipment, ss cutting tables, ss meat slicers, kettles, small wares, fencing wire, old trucks, ladders, lumber!

PERSONAL PROPERTY: Living room, bedroom, office room furniture, color TVs, like new upright 19 cu. ft. freezer, washer, like new Maytag dryer, dishes, pots/pans, knickknacks. BRING BOXES PLEASE! UNDER LARGE TENT! 10% BUYER’S PREMIUM!

Joette Humphrey, Auctioneer, NCAL 6556
Shelley’s Auction Gallery (NCAL 6131)
429 N. Main St., Hendersonville, NC 28792
(828) 698-8485 / fax (828) 693-4305
www.shelleysauction.com * email sag@shelleysauction.com

Arts & Living Editor

On November 18-19, a number of Davidson students will be displaying their particular artistic abilities at The Living Art Cafe & Gallery in Charlotte. The Living Art Cafe & Gallery is hosting the first opening of the work of Davidson sophomore Becca Wilson. From 8:00 - 10:00 p.m. on both the 18th and the 19th, various other Davidson artists will perform. Members from the Dance Troupe, musicians, and poets, all from Davidson, are expected to share their talents with the gallery patrons who come to see Becca’s work.

Becca’s art show is entitled “The Creation of Nature in Color & Motion,” and it consists of work that she did while studying in Holland over last summer. On display will be work done in oil, acrylic, watercolor, charcoal, and pen and ink. The Richmond, VA native shows a certain organic spirit in her work. She says of her work that, “in creation I echo the pure, flowing energy of nature that awakens my soul.” Her work, such as “Meditation in Waiting,” shows a delight in the color and movement of the natural world. Hoping to get the “creative selves” of Davidson out into public view, Becca has asked many to come perform during her show. The Dance Troupe, in particular, will be performing several kinds of dance at thirty-minute intervals during both nights.

The Living Art Gallery is at 3227 North Davidson Street, and its phone number is 370-0001. If anyone is interested in performing, please call Becca at 6376.