_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

A closer examination of Goldsboro and NC drivers

I had the pleasure (hope you caught the sarcasm in that statement) this past Friday to drive to one of
Money Magazine's top 10 cities to live in for 1993, Goldsboro. No, I did not make a typo, I am
not talking about Greensboro, but Goldsboro, NC. If you are wondering how a city receives such an honor, join the
crowd. I have only had the opportunity to visit this small bastion of good living once prior to Friday. I
did not understand how it won such an award then, and I still do not understand now. Granted, I have
been told that the residential areas are quite nice, but the majority of the city center reminded me of a
scene from the movie “Children of the Corn.” Creepy! I wanted to make my way through this area as quickly
as possible! I saw no signs of any vitality in any of the shops or storefronts. Most of the buildings
were either gutted, vacant, or in extreme disrepair. During this drive through town, the only sign of life I saw
was the occasional stray cat. Quite eerie, I felt as if I had entered a time warp.

I imagine you might be asking yourself: 1.) Why am I telling you this and 2.) Why did I make
a trip to Goldsboro in the first place? I entered an art competition about a month ago which happened to
take place in Goldsboro. The show’s duration was from February 20th to March 19th, i.e. the show was over and
I had to go and pick up my work. But, the real reason for this article is to address the
driving practices of those that reside in the Carolinas.

I will admit before I go any further that I am not always the safest of drivers. I have a
tendency to be impatient when I drive and I speed, alright and I weave, ok, I am pretty bad sometimes.
But, I can drive normally when the situation arises! I promise! So, on my trip to Goldsboro, I found myself
in the bind that I only had 3 hours and 15 minutes to make a minimum 3 and a half
hour trip. Oops, way to go preplanning. I knew one thing and that was that I only had Friday to
go and pick up this painting, so I was bound and determined to accomplish this task. Despite my own need
to haul butt, I encountered even scarier people on the road that put my own driving to shame.

Now, if I remember correctly from Drivers’ Ed, the fast lane on the highway is always the leftmost lane. Did
somebody change this rule in the Carolinas? I would make my way over to the left lane in order to
increase my frenetic pace, yet did this happen? NOPE! Time and time again, I encountered the slow individuals on the
road in this lane. And what about semis? Is there some secret ploy between semis that they need to pace
one another, essentially clogging both lanes of the highway? Then there are those early eighties economy cars, those old Hondas
and Toyotas. Honestly, these cars vacillate more on the highway than a sine or cosine wave. It seems as if
all it takes for them to shimmy and blow into the other lane is a strong gust of wind. God
forbid a semi pass them! These little economy cars make me nervous. You have no idea when they might just
take off from the road and careen into your vehicle.

Yet the true display of horrendous driving came when I hit the four and five lane portions of I-85 and
I-40. I honestly felt as if I was at a standstill in comparison to these people. Let me outline just
three stereotypical cases that I encountered: A.) the housewife in her hulking Navigator, Expedition, or any large sport utility vehicle
on a mission from above (multi-tasking careers, dinner, soccer practice, and the location of their 14-year-old), B.) the teen who
whizzes past you as if you (who are currently going 90 something m/h) are standing still and my personal favorite
C.) the corporate executive on their way home from work where nothing stands in their way (congested highways, cops, or
lack of road)! It seemed as if everybody had 100 miles to go and only an hour to do it
in!

So after contemplating everybody’s rush, I want to end with two questions: 1.) Exactly what does Money Magazine look at
when they are choosing the top U.S. cities to live in, because it certainly doesn’t have anything to do with
aesthetics, and 2.) For a state that places such an enormous emphasis on how wonderful their highway system is, why
is it that nobody in this state can drive, including visitors?

PHIL REED

---

_March Madness taken too far_

During spring break I sat on a double bed at the Sugar Beach Motel (sugar white beaches at sugar sweet
prices) in Panama City, Florida, merely...Trying to escape the confines of my North Carolina life, I was quickly brought back
to reality. CNN covered a story that surrounded much controversy in Asheville, NC. A local high school was being challenged
to change the nickname of its sports teams. The Erwin High School “Warriors” for the male sports teams and “Squaws”
for the female sports teams are not politically correct. Some people take offense to Native American mascots used in sporting
events because they believe it has a particularly degrading demeanor. Says Joseph Oxendine, chancellor of UNC Pembroke, “the manner in
which the Indian is portrayed in sports tends to dehumanize and trivialize a whole culture.” He questions the Atlanta Braves,
Kansas City Chiefs, Florida St. Seminoles, and other teams that use Native American names or tribes as their mascots or
nicknames. “Generally, mascots are programmed to do funny, even outrageous, things,” he writes, “They boastfully intimidate opposing players and fans;
they tease and clown around with children; and they rally their fans to support the team.” I do not see
how such things, done by all mascots, trivialize an entire culture. It is true that many such nicknames do not
accurately represent the essence of Native American culture, but that is not to say that it makes their culture any
less valuable. The Dallas Cowboys are a very good counterexample. Representing a group of people, a common stereotype of cowboys
is that they wear cowboy hats and boots, ride horses, and lasso whatever cattle are hanging around yelling, “ride ‘em
cowboy.” Now, anyone in their right mind knows that “cowboys” do not tend to do such things; rather, they have
a legit profession. However, the professional Dallas football team does not offend most cowboys, to my knowledge. They know that
football is merely a sporting event, not intended to offend anyone. In the same manner, the Erwin Warriors do not
intend to be derogatory to Native Americans. This is a problem that, I argue, should not even be a problem.
In today’s culture, it is all too common to find something offensive, something as insignificant as sports teams. Worrying over
ideas such as these has made a strong impact in America. Just a couple of weeks ago, Crayola decided to
change the name of the “Indian red” crayon. The color had nothing to do with Native Americans, but was named
so because of a reddish-brown pigment often found near India. Nevertheless, some people found the name of the crayon offensive
because they thought it referred to the color of Native Americans' skin. I am also reminded of a similar incident
that took place in Washington just a couple of months ago. David Howard, a white aide to Mayor Anthony Williams,
correctly used the word “niggardly” in speaking with his staff. The word, which means “stingy” but sounds much like another
word, was taken as offensive. Howard apologized and defined the word, but the rumor quickly spread that he had used
a racial slur. He was so overwhelmed with complaints that he resigned. How insensitive of Mr. Howard: participating in the
heinous and offensive act of using vocabulary properly. This, I believe, clearly displays the travesty that political correctness has created.
Leonard Pitts, a black columnist for the Miami Herald, responds: “the onus for this mess is properly borne by the
aides who blew a minor misunderstanding out of proportion, and the members of the black community who jumped on Howard
for no good reason. If some people feel this illustrates how hypersensitive we’ve become on issues of racial insult, I
have to agree with that.” In both examples, people took a simple misunderstanding and blew it into a significant problem,
a problem that never even existed. Society tells us that we should always be aware of people who are trying
to offend us. Therefore, we are so quick to take offense today that we do so to issues that only
verify our ignorance. People can be offended by almost anything. People can be offended if someone introduces himself as Randy.
I know those of us at Davidson who are offended by our Honor Code. However, does that mean that we
should abolish it? We are emotional people with sensitive characters; for us to go through life expecting no one to
insult our integrity or challenge our convictions is unrealistic. I am not suggesting that we become immune to all types
of offense. Rather, we should evaluate whether or not such offense is truly intended and what the results of it
will be. Doing so will only better solve genuine problems of racism and sexism that truly degrade people. So in
this world of the Common Era and the vertically challenged, let’s take notice of what we find offensive and how,
if at all, it will genuinely impact our society. Go Warriors.
