DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN

“Mecklenburg County’s Foremost College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

317 freshmen self select
NEWS 4

Impeachment and more new Davidsonian Members
OPINIONS 7, 8

Chili Cookoff!
A&L 9

Wildcats some, some. Winter sports recapped.
SPORTS 11

Davidson fully honors MLK Day for the first time

College Communications

By ASHLEY E. KING AND CARRIE ARTHUR
News Editors

For the first time in the history of Davidson College, the classrooms sat empty for the entire duration of January 18th to honor Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his accomplishments in the pursuit of equality. Instead of classes, the College sponsored various programs aimed at raising awareness about what Dr. King had achieved in his lifetime and what we can do today to further promote his famous dream.

Many individuals and organizations were integral in getting the College to suspend classes for all of the Martin Luther King holiday. The momentum towards acknowledging the holiday began with a proposal made by Dean Jeffries in the Fall semester of 1998. Since the initial proposal, Jeffries, the SGA, the BSC, and a large contingent of the student body worked to convince those in the administration to give students a full day off instead of the traditional half day dedicated to celebrating Dr. King’s accomplishments. Classes that would have been held on MLK day are now scheduled during the exam period at the end of the semester.

Many of those involved in bringing about this change felt that the demand to recognize MLK day gained force when several women discovered a racial slur written on a poster in 1st Center Belk. This incident heightened student awareness of racial issues that existed on campus and focused many students’ attention on the fact that MLK day was not observed by the College. Chris Tuttle, Vice President of the SGA, commented that “The poster just brought to our attention a problem that already existed.” Ann Harriot Fisher, President of the SGA, agreed with Tuttle’s sentiments, saying that the students had “turned something negative around” by using the poster to promote the acknowledgment of the MLK holiday. The SGA also helped to change the College’s policy by writing letters to faculty and sending around a petition which, according to Fisher, received “hundreds of signatures.”

Although there were no classes on the MLK holiday, the College offered many optional programs which were meant to enrich students’ understanding of Dr. King and the ideas he embraced. The events started on Sunday, January 17th and lasted through the end of the holiday on Monday, January 18th.

The first program was held on the patio of the Union at 9:00 both on Sunday, January 17th and on the following Monday at the same time.

FLAG abandons fashion show

JIM STUNTZ
Guest Writer

Davidson’s Friends of Lesbians and Gays (FLAG) has decided to abandon sponsorship of its annual Fashion Show. The Fashion Show, a part of Davidson’s social life for the past five years, was addressed in Libertas’ November feature on sexuality. The feature consisted of three personal narratives describing the Davidson experiences of a bisexual, a heterosexual, and a homosexual student. Discussion arising from the Libertas piece prompted a reevaluation of the Fashion Show’s message in relation to the concerns and objectives of FLAG, with the result being a vote to discontinue sponsorship of the event.

Members and visitors, students and faculty, presented arguments for and against the idea of discontinuing the Fashion Show. Those arguing for keeping the event under FLAG’s name cited the massive attendance figures and the large amount of money raised for charity as great benefits to FLAG. Supporters of the Fashion Show also named the visibility the event provides. Arguments for discontinuing the Fashion Show were put forward by several students, as well as by faculty members Suzanne Churchill, Richard Kaye, and Russ Snapp. Echoing sentiments expressed in the Libertas, the critics said that the event is essentially heterosexual in nature — acted out by heterosexuals for

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036