vi

Preview, from page 16.

sustained substantial injuries, including a dislocated elbow last season and a broken hand that kept him out of the 1998 NCAA tournament. If he can stay healthy, however, his contributions off the bench will be invaluable to the Wildcats.

Possibly the largest, and most significant, uncertainty Davidson faces heading into the season is the status of junior Emeka Erege, another Wildcat with the versatility to play either the power forward or shooting guard spot. A stress fracture in his left leg has hampered Erege’s efforts to maintain a regular practice schedule, and McKillop admits there is a question mark about how Erege will contribute this season. With the stabilization of his leg, Erege can be a powerful force for the Wildcats as he proved last season, being a tenacious defender, starting 24 of the last 25 games, averaging 7.4 points per game, and developing an outstanding perimeter game. As defenses began forcing him to the outside, Erege took advantage of three-point opportunities that opened up and finished the year hitting 38 percent from behind the arc.

Sophomore Brian Turner, a 6-foot-4 native of the Garden State, will be expected to make significant contributions to the team and is another player coaches expect to make a huge impact on Wildcat basketball over the next three years. During his freshman year, Turner averaged 3.8 points per game while only playing 6.8 minutes per game, and in an electrifying effort against UNC Greensboro he scored nine points in nine minutes. Consistency and focus, however, are the elusive aspects of his game, but McKillop applauds Turner for his growth and improved understanding of the Wildcat’s system. Combined with his on-court flair and high energy level, Turner’s quickness and athleticism will be called upon often this season to support the Wildcats.

New to the backcourt are freshmen Wayne Bernard and Peter Anderer, two outstanding guards with the potential to see action early in the season. The 6-foot-3 Bernard hails from California and has been praised for his maturity as well as his quickness and ball handling, being described by McKillop as “mature beyond his years as a basketball player.” Anderer, a 6-foot-1 New Yorker, was a late addition to this year’s recruiting class but caught everyone’s eye during fall workouts with his ability to make shots, more specifically, according to McKillop, his “uncanny knack to get his shot off.”

On the Prowl

The Wildcats have a schedule designed for maximum national exposure, something McKillop says the college deserves and the players, fans, and alumni wanted. Besides a chance to show talented players across the nation the excellence of Davidson basketball, the national schedule is yet another way to build confidence and gain respect. “Our guys love the national exposure, and they know that to be the best they have to beat the best,” said assistant coach Matt Methany. To McKillop, the contests on the 1999-2000 calendar mark the opportunity for the team to “put itself on a Broadway stage.” Mistakes, of course, have a harsher glare and are witnessed by larger masses when they occur in the national spotlight.

By Michael J. Kruse

The Wildcat Report

If last Monday’s exhibition is an indication of things to come, let this be a warning: Watch out, Southern Conference. Landry Kosmalski is set for a monster senior season. The 6-foot-7 forward scored 30 points and had 19 rebounds — including 20 and 13 in the first half alone — as the men’s basketball team lost 91-84 to the Five-Star Hawks at Belk Arena. “He’s playing like he’s been practicing,” coach Bob McKillop said. “He’s been absolutely sensational.” Transfer point guard Fern Tonella posted a productive 17 minutes, finishing with 12 points on 4-for-5 shooting. Veteran off-guard Davor Halbauer had 11 points. Rookie forward Jason Dickens added 10. But defensive woes in the first half and offensive problems at the beginning of the second were enough to leave Davidson on the losing end of this early tune-up. The Hawks featured plenty of talent. Their roster included former NBA gunner Lloyd Daniels, former Massachusetts Minuteman Dana Dingle, and recent Princeton grad Brian Earl. “We thought we had a ‘C’ performance tonight,” McKillop explained. “We needed more energy and enthusiasm. We gave up too many loose balls and there wasn’t enough talking out there.” All stuff to work on for the team’s second and final exhibition contest Wednesday against the Charlotte Royals.

Notes: McKillop used 11 players, starting Michael Bree, Jeff Bergmann, Martin Ides, Kosmalski, and Halbauer. ... Stephen Marshall sat out with a day-to-day back injury. ... Emeka Erege is sidelined with a stress fracture in his left leg. The junior swingman should be back in time for the Nov. 16 regular-season opener versus Siena in Albany, N.Y. ... Daniels was impressed with Kosmalski’s performance. “The kid can play,” he told the Charlotte Observer. “I’d never heard of Kosmalski before, but I'll be sure to follow his career down the road.” Kruse is the editor of The Wildcat Report, a monthly newsletter that covers Davidson men’s basketball.

like on Broadway or during an intense, cross-country collegiate basketball schedule. An outstanding Broadway performance, however, is that much more rewarding and brings with it a greater sense of accomplishment. “The main thing is how we play,” said Bree in anticipation of the trips to the Preseason NIT in New York and the Stanford Tournament in California. “If we don’t win, people won’t remember us. But if we can bring home some wins, Davidson basketball will have a chance of making a national impact.” Even with such a demanding schedule before them, the understanding of the veterans’ experience, the freshmen class’ talent, the roster’s depth, and the versatility available at every position has tweaked Davidson’s confidence to the perfect level for the season opener. Indeed, consistency will be the key to a winning year for the Wildcats, but hopefully they will follow another Yankee example and capture a championship.

Hardin is sports editor of The Davidsonian. This story originally appeared in The Wildcat Report, a monthly publication that covers Davidson basketball.

Eight goals in two games

By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats built their momentum for the Southern Conference tournament by rolling over their last two regular season opponents. They beat the University of Richmond 5-0 on the road and silenced Wofford College 3-0 in the last home game of the season. Freshman goalkeeper Soren Johnson added two more shutouts to his impressive season statistics (6 shutouts and a 1.51 goals-against average) and Sophomore Chris Norbet upped his goal total to 12, the third highest tally by a sophomore in school history.

Davidson entered the Oct. 31 match at Richmond in dire straits. At 7-10 and coming off three difficult losses to UNC, UNCC and Furman, Davidson desperately needed a win to get back on track before the Southern Conference tournament. With their backs to the wall, the Wildcats responded in exciting fashion with a 5-0 drubbing that shocked the 9-4-1 Spiders and once again demonstrated the character and brilliance that has earned the ’Cats big wins this year. Richmond was no slouch of an opponent either as they were probably in the running for an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament before suffering the loss to Davidson. Nevertheless, with a flood of offense reminiscent of their amazing four goals in four minutes against Buffalo earlier in the season, the Wildcats broke out of their three-game slump in a convincing style against Richmond. Just four minutes into the match, Norbet came through for the ’Cats with a big goal as he has done many times this season. He headed in a goal that was assisted by Andrew Holbrook and Derek Kilburn, both of whom came up big for Davidson throughout the game. Derek Kilburn stretched the lead to twoOnly 8 minutes later, as he finished a ball from ten yards out, Chris Norbet notched his second goal of the night and his tenth of the season with a goal that he described as one of the best of his career. Norbet hit a blast from the left side that dipped into the upper corner and left the Spider’s keeper frozen and helpless. “I set the shot up on my right foot,” said Norbet. “When I hit it, it was knuckling. It started up high but at the last second dropped - right into the upper corner.” Jon Teterick finished the first half scoring barrage in the 29th minute when he put home another Andrew Holbrook assist.

Davidson, boosted by the recent Richmond victory, didn’t miss a beat the following Monday and kept their fire alive, rolling to a decisive Southern Conference victory over Wofford College. The match improved the ‘Cats to 9-10 on the season. More importantly, the victory moved them to 5-3 in the conference and secured an important third-place seed in the upcoming SoCon tournament behind Furman and UNCG.

Once again, one of the top stories was Chris Norbet’s amazing goal-scoring streak, which he continued by adding two more scores to his previous total of 12. Norbet finished both early goals with great poise. In the 14th minute, he finished across from sophomore Jon Teterick by slotting a ball into the lower corner. Norbet struck again in the 22nd minute when he redirected a hard cross from Andrew Holbrook just over the outstretched hands of Wofford’s goalkeeper and into the side-netting. Wofford failed to mount any threat in the second period, and Ikenna Myers sealed Davidson’s victory in the 85th minute with his first goal of the season. A top-class goal, Erickson started the drive down the left side with a deft ball to sophomore Justin Saunders. Saunders received the ball behind the Terriers’ defense and sent a low, hard cross to the back post where Myers flashed in for the finish.

When the smoke cleared and the nets cooled, the Wildcats had finished the week having outscored their opponents 8-0, leaving no doubt about their intensity level heading into the SoCon tournament. Senior Lawrence Cann expressed his excitement, saying, “It is not often that a team is playing this well at this point in the season. We have a great opportunity to take this momentum into the tournament.”

Tournament semifinals: the last chapter of men’s ’99 season
By Andy Lanoha, Staff Writer

The Davidson Men’s soccer team advanced to the semifinals of the Southern Conference tournament this weekend with a thrilling 3-2 overtime victory over Georgia Southern on Friday night. Unfortunately, a 3-0 loss on Saturday at the hands of UNC Greensboro stopped Davidson’s three-game winning streak and ended the season abruptly.

The Wildcats earned their semifinal spot in a hard battle against the Georgia Southern Eagles. Though the ’Cats established a 2-0 lead early in the match, they were unable to withstand Georgia Southern’s desperate second-half onslaught. Facing elimination, the Eagles, behind their star Jeremy McClure, fought back to tie the game with only 4 seconds left in regulation. The Wildcats weren't beaten, however. In the 100th minute of the match, Lawrence Cann came through with the golden goal that sealed the sudden death victory.

Senior Captain Hart Roper opened the scoring for the ‘Cats in the 7th minute when he chipped a shot home from the right side just out of the reach of the Eagles’ goalkeeper. The play began in the midfield and was double assisted by Derick Kilburn and Andrew Holbrook. Chris Norbet added to the lead in the 22nd minute when he scored his 13th goal of the season and his 6th in only 7 games. Norbet took the ball from 30 yards out, carried it towards goal, and fired it into the left side. Davidson took this lead into halftime, and coming out in the second half quickly looked to extend it. The Wildcats started the second half with fire, and Norbet found himself with several scoring chances in the first minutes. However, the ‘Cats were unable to extend their lead, and the Eagles fought back with a goal of their own in the 54th minute from Jeremy McClure.

Needing only one goal to keep their season alive, the Georgia Southern Eagles attacked hard the rest of the game. For the final 15 minutes, they pounded the Wildcats' goal. Davidson almost held out for the victory in regulation, but with four seconds left, Jeremy McClure notched his second goal by finishing a free kick that was lofted into the box. With both teams facing the same season-ending fate, Cann led Davidson to answer the call. Cann scored his second game-winning goal of the season in the final minutes of the first overtime when he headed home a corner kick from Paul Watson. “It was a little more exciting than we would have liked,” commented Coach Charlie Slagle, “but we're obviously pleased with the outcome.”

Though wearied from the long battle the night before, Davidson approached Saturday’s match with confidence and excitement. Cann told the Charlotte Observer that Davidson “owed” UNCG for the loss the Spartans had handed the Wildcats earlier in the season. Indeed, UNCG had proven to be a thorn in Davidson’s side this year when they stopped the Wildcats' early season roll with a 4-0 win in Greensboro. Coming off of three big wins, the ‘Cats had reason to believe in their chances approaching Saturday’s match. Unfortunately for the Wildcats, however, things just didn’t work out. Davidson faced a very potent offense in UNCG led by Alejandro Moreno, a man who Coach Slagle called “one of the best finishers in the country.” Moreno came through for the Spartans, notching two goals and putting the game out of reach for the ’Cats.

UNCG opened the scoring in the 7th minute with a goal from Svatnir Gislason. This goal put the Wildcats on their heels, and they were unable to capitalize on their few first-half opportunities. In the opening minutes of the second period, Alejandro Moreno scored the second goal of the game with an assist from Gislason. Though Davidson mounted a small attack after this second goal, it was never enough. Moreno finished the scoring and put the game out of reach in the 85th minute with his second score of the match.

The loss brought the 1999 season to a close for the Wildcats. They finished 10-11 overall and 6-3 in the conference. Coach Slagle successfully completed his 20th year coaching with 198 victories. Looking back, though the record or the final result may not show it, it was a season to remember for Davidson’s men’s soccer team and all their fans. The season was full of amazing highs that will not soon be forgotten. The ‘Cats opened the season in unprecedented fashion by winning two of the biggest games in Davidson athletics history. Their meteoric rise to a No. 5 ranking in the nation rallied the entire school behind them and certainly turned the heads of soccer fans around the country. When the No. 5 ranking faded, the boys still provided us with more memorable moments. Four goals in four minutes against Buffalo was unlike anything I have ever seen in a soccer match. The 5-0 win over Richmond was Davidson’s first victory over the Spiders in several years and should be something the players never forget. What’s more, from the outside, we can know only a few of the moments that made this season great. Davidson’s seniors, Randy Culbertson, Hart Roper, Lawrence Cann, and Andrew Holbrook, provided leadership and stability for the team all season. Through every amazing high and disappointing low, the Wildcats played with character and heart. It is for this reason, more than for any of their successes this year, that the 1999 Davidson Men's soccer team should be proud.