- DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING CROSSWORD Times of Change

Across
1. Chaos
6. Horrifying
11. Wedding words
14. Popular font
15. Blender setting
16. Harangue
17. Top cable station
19. To be human?
20. D-Day dude
21. Broadcasts
22. Baked cheese
23. ASAP in ER
24. Midwestern states
27. Stocking maker
30. McLaughlin group
31. Alter
32. Beatles hit
36. DNA companion
37. Original chalkboard
38. Actress Tyler
39. Wal-mart competitor
42. South American country
44. Chews
45. Garble
46. Chinese lizards
49. Slippery fish
50. Caramel candy
51. Senior citizen’s grp.
52. See 11-down
55. Keats’ work
56. Montana, for example
60. Apiece
61. Undo a shoe
62. Paradox
63. Lush
64. Indian, for example
65. Stories

Down
1. Card arrangement
2. Dry
3. Depravity
4. Acorn mother
5. Spiked
6. Game
7. Cow snacks
8. Exist
9. ____ Speedwagon
10. Desire
11. With 52-down, element distinction
12. Beavis and Butt-head spin-off
13. Beasts
18. Fraud
22. Kind of weevil
23. 3-down, for example
24. Divine Comedy author
25. Actress Bancroft
26. Word with don or turn
27. Challenging
28. One prefix
29. Stitch
30. Body-shaped fruits
32. Tractors
33. Perched
34. Oldest river
35. At any time
37. Cardinal Musial
40. Breakfast food
41. Kind of cone
42. Bandit
43. ESPN competitor
45. Scarce
46. Lets fall
47. Hollywood road
48. Attentive
49. Consumed
51. Soprano solo
52. Ancient prison
53. Adolescent concern
54. “The ____ the limit!”
56. Status __
57. ACC school
58. Consumed
59. Bikini half

These sheets, when placed under different lights, seemed to change colors, at times accented in browns and greens, at other
times showing a fuller range of color.

Student production of Jesus Christ Superstar shines
By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

As the rehearsals promised, the Davidson student production of Jesus Christ Superstar delivered. There were four showings of the rock
opera. I attended the Saturday, April 18th, showing. The first thing, not unexpectedly, that I noticed upon entering Love Auditorium,
was the stage. Reminiscent of the feeling of the movie version of Superstar, the stage consisted of two columns supporting
a platform at the center of the stage. On the left and right of the stage, stairs led up to
the platform. A great portion of the platform, in between the columns and near the stairs, was draped in painted
sheets.

The musical began with the playing of the “orchestra,” seated in front of the stage. This orchestra was not a
classic one in that this rock opera requires drums and guitars. Music introduced Superstar but was only one important component
of its success. Another important component of the musical’s success, both at Davidson and in other productions, is the inner-workings.
Within the opening minutes of the musical, Judas stands apart, questioning Jesus and his followers. He questions Jesus’ divinity, which,
it seems, is one of the questions posed to the audience by the musical. Judas’ betrayal of Jesus is seen
in Superstar as a misguided desire to save his people and do the right thing.

Will Ragland’s portrayal of Pontius Pilate was compelling. Looking very much the Roman governor, Ragland’s Pontius Pilate was a man
visibly torn between his qualified pity for Jesus and his desire to placate the angry crowd. This view of Pontius
Pilate is not radical, yet Ragland was able to bring forth both Pilate’s imperious manner and pity (however arrogant) for
Jesus.

Pilate’s view of Jesus differs greatly from Mary Magdalene’s. Mary Magdalene is another central character in the musical. She is
certainly a “human” character, strikingly fallible. Anna McDonald’s performance of Mary Magdalene made one forget the BiblicalHere is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Account of Mary Magdalene’s life and sin. In this powerful performance, Mary Magdalene was an innocent, seemingly untainted, desiring to
love Jesus and recognizing the wonder of him. One of the highlights of the musical was her rendition, with Jesus
(Steven Meriwether), of “I Don’t Know How to Love Him.” McDonald’s and Justin Perkinson’s (Peter) ballad, “Could We Start Again
Please?” was another one of the highlights of the musical. It is, of course, Jesus whom the play focuses on,
and Steve Meriwether’s performance brought forth a sometimes confused, sometimes angry, and sometimes doubtful Jesus (such as the Gethsemane scene).
In short, Meriwether’s Jesus was a human one. His portrayal fulfilled the role of Jesus in the musical. Meriwether showed
the audience a Jesus that was compassionate and charismatic and great and human at the same time. In particular, his
solo performance of the Gethsemane scene stood out as one of the most powerful in the musical.

Those who missed the Davidson student’s production of Jesus Christ Superstar missed an emotionally charged performance of the famous musical.
Director Chase Bringardner, Vocal Director Maurie Ponder, producer Nick Dancik, Band directors Ross Hagen and Chad Diamond, and all the
cast and crew (especially Ben Garrison, ouch) made this production a success. Those who did see it, at least on
Saturday night, were on their feet at the end of the show. That, I think, is enough said.

Here are a few Earth facts:

According to the U.S. EPA, more than 25% of the nation’s children live in areas that do not meet national
air quality standards. One leaky faucet can use up to 4000 gallons of water per month. In 1996, water pollution
prompted more than 2500 closings and swimming advisories at beaches around the country. Each year, about 78,000 square miles of
tropical rain forest are destroyed. All facts compiled from the National PTA.
