By BRIAN MAYERHOFER Staff Writer

Davidson’s lacrosse team has reason to be optimistic about improving on their 5-9 finish a year ago. The combination of having their five top scorers back with the strongest freshman class in the program’s history should result in increased success for the Wildcats.

The ‘Cats are led by their three captains: seniors Linda Rothemund, Amanda Fleck, and Katie Williams. Rothemund (28 Goals-29 Assists-57 Points) and Fleck (31G-21A-52P) were both among the national leaders in several categories last year. Williams (17G-5A-22P), who missed several games due to injury, is an explosive scorer who will also have a big impact. After excellent freshmen campaigns, midfielder Lauren Kenchington (19G-12A-31P) and attacker Rachel Bowen (19G-7A-26P) return. With defensemen Stephanie Hunter and Lauren Hancock, these five players will provide leadership for the first-year players. Several of these players are expected to make an immediate impact.

One of these players is Molly Cherington. Cherington, who hails from Kimball Union Academy in New Hampshire, was an All-American in high school who’ll start at attack. Sarah Otto is another All-American. She’ll start at midfield, while her twin sister Blair, another standout at Taft, will start at defense. In goal, Lisa Benjamin will start for the third consecutive year.

Last Monday, the ‘Cats opened up their season with the 16th-ranked Vanderbilt Commodores. Any hopes of avenging last year’s 18-4 loss to Vandy were quickly destroyed as the Commodores jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead in the first half. Davidson settled down, but continued to struggle as they fell 15-5. Vanderbilt was led by an excellent performance by April Tellem who tallied 12 points on 5 goals and 7 assists. Davidson was led by two goals and an assist from both Lauren Kenchington and Molly Cherington. Amanda Fleck led the ‘Cats with two assists.

This weekend, Davidson traveled to Maryland to face both Johns Hopkins and Mount St. Mary’s. On Saturday, the ‘Cats faced the Blue Jays of Johns Hopkins. While the men’s team at Hopkins is a perennial powerhouse (currently ranked #1 after defeating Princeton), their women’s program is in their first year of Division I action after years of success at the Division III level. Against Davidson, they played like a top team as they defeated the ‘Cats 17-9 in their Division I debut.

The next day Davidson broke into the win column with a hard-earned 11-9 win over Mount St. Mary’s. Just forty seconds into the game, Amanda Fleck put the ‘Cats up 1-0. Over the next few minutes, it looked as if Davidson might fall to 0-3 as the Mountaineers scored four unanswered goals in four minutes. The ‘Cats defense was unrelenting over the next twenty-five minutes as Davidson shut out Mount for the rest of the half. Stephanie Hunter knotted the score at four with just 1:30 left in the half. The second half was much of the same as both teams traded goals. Down 7-6, freshman Sarah Otto tied the game with 15:20 left. Over the next twelve minutes, Davidson attacked well and took advantage of turnovers to take control of the game. Fleck’s third goal of the game put the ‘Cats up 9-7. Two minutes later, Brooke Wheeler made the score 10-7 when she...Deflected a shot by Molly Cherington. While Mount closed the margin to 10-9 with 1:30 left, Lauren Kenchington sealed the victory with a goal in the last minute.

Lacrosse team edged out in OT
By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

The Wildcat lacrosse team lost a heartbreaker on Saturday when they fell in overtime to the Ohio State Buckeyes (2-2). The contest was closely contested throughout as the ‘Cats and the Buckeyes passed the lead back and forth. In the first half, the ‘Cats jumped out to an early lead when freshman Beth Calder netted a goal 45 seconds into the game. Less than two minutes later, however, Celeste Cianfrani of Ohio State responded with her team’s first goal of the game. The Buckeyes then proceeded to score four consecutive goals, putting them up 5-1 with approximately nine minutes left in the half. The ‘Cats broke out of their temporary scoring slump when sophomore Lauren Kenchington netted a goal with 8:46 left in the game. Senior Linda Rothemund and freshman Molly Cherington also added 2 more first-half goals for the ‘Cats. The Buckeyes managed to add one more goal four minutes before half-time to put them up 6-4.

Less than one minute into the second half, the Buckeyes scored their seventh goal, but Rothemund responded for the ‘Cats with her second score of the day. Following another Ohio State score, which put the Buckeyes up 8-5, Davidson dominated the next 20 minutes of play. Off an assist by senior Amanda Fleck, sophomore Stephanie Hunter netted her first goal of the game. Less than 40 seconds later, Fleck scored a goal of her own to bring the ‘Cats within a single goal at 8-7. At the 23:45 mark, Calder scored Davidson’s third consecutive goal to tie the contest at 8-8. With 9:44 left in the game, Ohio State scored the tie-breaking goal. The game remained scoreless for the next nine minutes as the ‘Cats were unable to find the back of the net. With two seconds remaining, however, Cherington scored her second goal of the game to tie the contest at 9-9 and send it into overtime. With 1:04 remaining in the first of two OT periods, Megan Mirick of Ohio State scored what proved to be the winning goal as the Buckeyes finally topped the ‘Cats 10-9.

Next, Davidson hosts American University on Tuesday at 3 pm before heading to Duquesne this weekend for games against Duquesne and Villanova.

Other Library news:
Thanks (again) from the Library! Last year’s inventory of all the books in the Library showed the lowest number of books missing in 40 years! There were 180 books missing (and we’ve since found one or two more) out of over 80,000 checked out. Not since 1960 has the number been lower. It’s a real tribute to all of the College Family. Thanks for your part in keeping the Honor System working!

There are now 35 network connections for laptop computers located throughout the E. H. Little Library. Check at the Circulation Desk for a map of locations and cables to check out if needed.

You may “check” your laptop computer at the Circulation Desk if you need to leave the building. Please do not leave laptops unattended.

—The Library Staff

P.S. Pick up a copy of the missing book list and see if you can help locate those still missing.