*THE DAVIDSONIAN* last week’s article by Matthew Fuller. While taking broad aim at anything he could, he fired so wide as to not be humorous and only offend. Ladies and gentlemen, I’ve known Matt Fuller since freshman year. More to the point, we were fellow First Westers living across the hall from each other. I fully believe God put me on the same hall with him to teach me tolerance, but it’s been a hard pill to swallow. The following is addressed directly to Matthew.

Other than being famous for his beliefs in the absurdity of humanity, Camus was a devout humanist. While he believed that the human condition may be absurd, he also held absolute faith in his fellow man. You could learn a great deal from Albert Camus if you would only take the time to read even more. Besides the reference with which you capped your “rant,” I would refer you to his comments on love: “I know of only one duty, and that is to love.” As a Christian, you should understand that pursuit. Yet your hateful article belies your faith. Attacking your fellow man does not lift you to a higher plane; rather, it shows others your true colors and lifts them above you.

In regards to this article: I do not think I’m a hypocrite because I am arguing with your comments, not attacking you. Moving on. Camus was not the only good philosopher to come out of France, let alone the “only reputable thing France has engendered.” On the other hand, Sartre seems to fill your ideals better than Camus ever could. Sartre’s famous line from the play *No Exit*, “Hell is other people,” seems to fit perfectly your view of Davidson and, more importantly, society. I had hoped that a trip to London would have brought you out of your dark, lonely hole, but it seems to have only driven you deeper into the pit of conservatism you call home. You are not a “true cynic” as you say. A true cynic would not bother himself with such banal subjects. Rather, it seems you have become a teen beat reporter for *Seventeen*. Potshots at Britney Spears and the Backstreet Boys are easy enough. In fact, so much has been said to degrade them already I wonder if you are actually a latent fan trying to cover your love for the teen idols with mock hatred.

One brief note regarding George W. Bush... I have an article in my room, written by the inimitable George F. Will, Republican extraordinaire, explaining very clearly why Bush is the wrong man for the job. There’s no need to enter a political debate on these pages, so I’ll refrain from listing all the points he makes. Yet, when George Will bashes a Republican, I stand up and listen. You should too.

Oh yeah, Matt, you can huff and puff all you want about the New Jersey Supreme Court, but don’t complain about it until you live there. Complain about Texas. Complain about North Carolina. Put your energy into things that directly affect you. Does the term equal rights not fully apply anymore, or were you bestowed the right to determine when it applies? I think someone forgot to tell me. I'll try and remember in the future. By the way, it was the Boy Scouts, not the Cub Scouts. If you'll get your facts straight in the future it will make my job of refuting your arguments much easier.

Matthew, please try the Christian approach. Treat your fellow man with love, kindness, and forgiveness. Maybe if you’re lucky he will do the same for you. Oh yeah, and one last note... true die-hard fans of 80s rock know that with a little research you could have found out that Nelson is on tour right now. So is Cyndi Lauper.

Ed Page ’00

First things first. We are not a reincarnation of Dave and Erich, nor will we attempt to be, so upperclassmen, don’t bother writing in. We believe firmly in the Op-Ed section, in which you can express your opinion, and oh do we have one. We are going to strive to poke a small hole in the bubble that encases this institution of higher learning. The opinions expressed here sure as hell do not represent those held by the 700 Club or the CBN. Watch out Pat, here we come. Shoot ’em all, and let God sort ’em out. Well now, if the Ten Commandments get put into the public schools, God can start collating a whole lot earlier, can’t He? News flash here people, we are NOT a theocracy; that’s why we left England. One of the beautiful things about our country is that you can choose to worship whatever you please or nothing at all. If you so choose, as so many fine Davidsonians do on certain mornings, you can worship the porcelain goddess. Contrary to the popular belief in America, not everyone is Christian; in fact, most of the world isn’t. Now I know what you're thinking, “Pat told me that Christianity is the #1 religion in the world.” Now before you go getting that big foam finger, we have some news for you. Christianity doesn’t even get to stand on the podium for a medal. That’s right, by our calculations, which were compiled by Bobo the Lobotomized Wonder Chimp, we’re somewhere around number four. WE’RENUMBER FOUR! WE’RE NUMBER FOUR! So that means that there are a lot of people, even in America, who do not believe in the Ten Commandments, although their life may follow them.

The Other — Now we do not have a problem with the Ten Commandments themselves (in fact, Dave is a preacher’s kid twice over). However, we don’t feel that they should be forced upon those people who do not subscribe to the Christian religion. In all honesty though, how much could really be accomplished by having the Ten Commandments in the classroom? Is it the view of the lawmakers trying to pass this resolution (who we would like to point out could use a refresher course on Number 7) that the recent school shootings were not perpetrated by Christians, assuming that a true Christian would follow the sixth commandment “Thou shalt not kill”? The Crusades proved this point rather conclusively, in our humble opinion. Therefore, we don’t feel that a daily reminder will stop the shootings.

And now for the Springer final thought... People get into relationships with farm animals that they... dammit, wrong final thought. We like the Ten Commandments. In fact, we would love to take them out for a beer. However, there is a small thing called the separation of church and state in this great land of ours. The Ten Commandments have their place, and a well-deserved place it is, but not in the public schools of America. Although, if we must concede on this point, we will have no problem if the lawmakers also put up equivalents from the religions of Islam, Buddhism, Hindu, Zoroastrianism, Voodoo, Wiccan, Agnosticism, Neoplatonism...

Cort Heroy ’02
David Stroupe ’02

Thoughts on absolutes

I have read some quotes from “Earth, Sky, and Mortals” by Jay McDaniel, and it got me thinking about the role of outside influences on Christian thought. McDaniel advocates synthesizing Christian and non-Christian beliefs with ecology, gaining insight into spirituality inherent in nature. He writes, “the ecological spirituality to be described is not exclusively Christian because the sensitivities that inform it can be cultivated, by Christians themselves, through an internalization of insights from non-Christian sources. Indeed, I draw heavily from Buddhism to articulate a faith without absolutes.”

I think that most Christians do some internalizing of insights from non-Christian sources. For example, one may internalize the beauty of wildlife, gaining an appreciation for the natural rhythms inherent in nature. One may read Thoreau’s “Walden Pond,” not necessarily a Christian work, and internalize the appreciation he has for nature. So long as these internalizations do not contradict what the Bible teaches, I would say that such internalization is consistent with Christian beliefs and practices.

His articulation of a faith without absolutes is more questionable; I would like to see what else he has to say concerning this. For if one has faith without absolutes (absolute love, absolute strength, etc.), what does one believe in? Half-love? Semi-strength? Who can worship a God that is not absolutely right? I say the most important absolute is absolute truth. Otherwise, truth is relative. That is, anyone can decide what is true for him/her. One may have a “personal god,” who is believed in only by that person and who has characteristics most desirable by that person. One who worships such a god may agree with the statement, “My god is different from your god.” While one person’s god may be a harsh judge, another person’s god may not pass judgment on anyone. In this system, one can be comfortable in all he does because his god will allow it. In this system, there is no absolute right or wrong, only what is right or wrong “for me.” Without an absolute truth, one does not worship a true God; one worships a man’s image of what a god should be. Since this image comes solely from the thoughts of a man, one is not worshiping a god at all, but a man.

Eric Ferguson ’00

“Seems like I’m forgetting something.”

For the Coolest StickWorld Apparel & Accessories, Visit Us at: StickWorld.com

DINE AND DASH? THAT'S YOUR IDEA OF A ROMANTIC DATE? AT LEAST I TOOK YOU TO A NICE RESTAURANT

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS SEEKING PAID TUTORS

THE AVID PROGRAM (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)

AVID is a program designed to prepare middle-achieving students in grades 6-12 for four-year college and university entry and success. If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are:

- Enrolled in a college or university with good academic standing
- Able to work in a supportive manner with middle-level and high school students and teachers
- Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
- Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
- Willing to receive three hours training in the AVID teaching
- An excellent role model for motivated, organized, and successful students
- Representative of a balanced academic background

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year

For additional information, please complete and return to the following:

Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street, Suite 506
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
(704) 343-6975

(Personal information)