THE DAVIDSONIAN  
David Rosenberg  
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999  

Gettin’ jiggy with Spring Break

There are times when the pungent smell of suntan lotion prevails over that of any perfume. It reeks of relaxation and leisure — an awful combination if work is imminent and finals are near. However, for one week in every college student’s life, finals are a distant thought and schoolwork is barely a reality. IT’S SPRING BREAK ’99, BABY. YEAH!!!

It’s a time when hardbound books only come within reach of students as pillows sandwiched between sand and a rolled-up t-shirt. “Spring Breakers” only put spiral notebooks to use to shield their face from the sun during a beach nap if they can’t find their sunglasses. Certain ingredients are very important for any quality spring break and destination may be its most weighty aspect.

For the distinct and well-educated majority, Spring Break will remain always a dreamy trip, characterized by the sunny reward of a break from a stressful academic year. But incomprehensible to the majority, some others still opt to ski for the March break. To tell the truth, Spring Break isn’t snow in Aspen, but rather sun and sand in Miami. Skiers had all of Winter Break to take their snowy trip, and if they missed it they should not make it up three months later. Spring Break tan lines shouldn’t be those around eyes made from ski goggles, but rather those from bikini tops and wet bathing suits.

Tan lines can do much to decipher a spring break. The absolute worst and most embarrassing color contrast sits on the left shoulder of any driver. As cars move south and mercury rises, any “true” spring breaker will remove his or her shirt, leaving only a bare chest or bikini top. Too much of a seat belt tan line reveals the blunder of spending too much time in the car and not enough time on the beach. Driving to Mexico only gives spring breakers cramped legs, wasted vacation time, and wicked stripes across their chest.

But I have one problem with the beach. Sharks absolutely terrify me. For all I know, my next step into the ocean might be right into the mouth of a 20-foot Great White. For this reason, I always strictly adhere to the Fodder Line Theory. My older and more knowledgeable cousin Chris developed this well-respected theory after watching Jaws at too young an age. A fodder line is an arbitrary line made up by the last row of frolicsome people farthest out into the ocean. Hopefully, sharks will be content nibbling on those play-happy frisbee throwers out by the far sand bunker before they come to a sharkaphobic person like myself.

Though even the thought of shark fodder may send some to the mountains and far away from the sea, if sea-goers keep their faith in the Fodder Theory, they will not have any problems, especially if those frisbee throwers are overweight enough so that they somewhat resemble sea otters. Seriously, check the fodder line out and make sure a large 60-year-old woman too big for her red bathing suit is further out into the ocean than you are. There won’t be any problems with the sharks.

Aside from a fear of sharks, skiers claim that their cold weather beats the heat of a southern vacation spot. But I'd rather get hit with a stray coconut than a snowball if it means I was lounging under a palm tree in Florida instead of drinking hot chocolate outside a ski hotel. I much prefer jet skis in the West Keys to snow skis in Colorado. It just doesn’t rhyme in the cold.

Many have different ideas as to what constitutes a spring break. A friend of mine from high school is driving up to New York for the week to hang around.town, and another guy I know found a cheap e-saver to L.A. and he’ll go see the sights there. So city wandering is another option - Chicago and Philly are fun places to go, too. It sounds cool. But I don’t know. There ain’t much shark fodder in NY from what I hear, let alone temperatures above 50. I kind of like the hundred degrees down by the Caribbean Sea. Surely skiers and city goers alike will have a good time. But please — don't get me wrong, Chitown got it going on, and New York is the city that we know don't sleep, and we all know that L.A and Philly — they jiggy. But on the sneak, Miami's bringing heat. For real (Will Smith). So for myself, and any other “true spring breaker,” anywhere warm is the place to be — close enough to drive to without getting leg cramps and far enough south that the temperature hits three digits more often than two. Bienvenidos a Miami.

KRISTEN TAYLOR

My mom always says that if you have to ask for something before you do it, you shouldn’t be doing it in the first place. And so I have read the disclaimer at the beginnings of the illustrious senior duo’s articles with many misgivings. Not only do they entitle their articles with such humble headings as “The one you have been waiting for,” but also they are determined to eclipse all of the other contributors to the Op-Ed section, such as myself, with the title “The only column you ever need to read.” Perhaps they should change the verb “need” — and in my opinion even that is pretty questionable.

To begin with, the authors assume that everyone who reads their articles will be insulted enough to consider writing a “rebuttal,” as they call it. Being second semester seniors themselves, I would have thought they would be more in touch with Davidson’s apathy towards writing for the school newspaper. Then again, maybe the kids that attend school here have learned the art of time management and realize that actually trying to refute an issue addressed in their column is a waste of — wait. Are there issues addressed in their columns? Hmmm...

I must say I enjoy their column a great deal — it’s like watching Letterman, only with Davidson personalities, and of course, like its late night counterpart, some parts inevitably fall flat. I sometimes wonder why they complain that no one reads their column when they insult half the student body in each article, as I am sure to be alluded to in their next column.

The most disturbing aspect of the disclaimer is the authors’ apparent multi-personality disorders. Their February 2 article denied that the opinions expressed were even theirs. Boys, let me clue you in to a great Davidson secret — I hear every student has ten free sessions at the Counseling Center which would be a great start towards working on those little voices in your heads and D-E-N-I-A-L...

Regardless, I have proof that at least one person other than me reads and enjoys their columns, and, in fact, he has taken their excellent, not-so-subtle plugs to date Op-Ed authors. Thanks Dave and Erich — just please take credit for your words from now on. This fine publication refuses to publish anonymously, so you should stand behind every word under your byline. And who is my mystery guy? Well, this is Davidson, folks — it shouldn’t be too hard to find out.