By Burgin HARDIN
The Wildcat Report

CHARLOTTE — Well, at least the Wildcats didn’t have to worry about letting this one slip away at the last
minute. Going into its fourth game of the season against UNC Charlotte, Davidson had dropped its latest game against a
Division I team — Siena — in the closing minutes of first-round Preseason NIT competition 15 days earlier. But history
never even had a chance to repeat itself here last Wednesday night as a 9-point deficit early in the first
half was the closest Davidson ever came to overcoming cross-county rival UNC Charlotte, who coasted to a 77-54 victory at
Halton Arena.

The 49ers jumped out to an 18-2 lead after the Wildcats committed six turnovers and failed to score a field
goal for the first ten minutes of the game. Two foul shots by Stephen Marshall accounted for all of the
Wildcats’ scoring until sophomore point man Fern Tonella landed a basket with 8:33 remaining in the half. UNCC pushed its
first-half lead to 18 at one point, thanks in large part to Wade Helliwell, dubbed “The Thunder from Down Under.”
Helliwell, a 7-0 center from Australia, caught the Wildcats by surprise and netted nine points in the eight minutes of
action he saw during the first half.

“The strength of Helliwell in the paint was something that we did not expect,” Coach McKillop said. “We did not
think that he was going to be the presence in the paint that he was.”

Davidson managed to cut the Niners’ lead to 14 by the end of the half using a three-man rotation of
four first-year players — Tonella, Wayne Bernard, Chris Pearson, and Jason Dickens. Martin Ides, who swapped time with Pearson, and
Jeff Bergman were the only Davidson veterans on the floor for over 7 minutes until Marshall reentered the game in
the closing seconds of the half.

A smothering UNCC press stymied the Wildcats offense for much of the game, but Tonella, who played 15 of his
21 minutes in the second half, provided a spark after halftime, slashing through the press and creating scoring opportunities inside
for Marshall and Kosmalski, who combined for 19 second-half points. The first five minutes of the second period looked strangely
like the beginning of the game as Davidson was again held without a score until the 13:45 mark.

“We knew what to expect, we knew what was coming, but we didn’t execute,” McKillop said in response to his
team’s dubious start at the beginning of each half.

The 49ers’ Aussie middleman continued to menace the Wildcats as he added 11 points in the second period and was
the source of woes for the four Wildcats who fouled out. “Give credit to Helliwell for that,” McKillop said of
the foul trouble down low that sent Bernard and Pearson to the bench.

---

By Burgin HARDIN
The Wildcat Report

Brad Childress, a 1990 Campbell University (N.C.) graduate, teams with play-by-play man Frank Santore on the Davidson Radio Network (DRN)
as the men’s basketball color analyst. The 1999-2000 season marks Childress’ third year on the air, which brings his total
years of radio experience to... three. Before putting on the headset in '97, Childress had coached college basketball since graduating
from Campbell. TWR's Burgin Hardin caught up to Childress, who works the 9-to-5 grind as a sales rep for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals, before the UNCC game and found out about Childress’ plunge into radio broadcasting and his take on this season...

BH: How did you get into radio?
BC: When I decided to make the move to get out of coaching, the coaching staff at Davidson contacted me
and asked me if I'd be interested in doing the radio. I don’t have any previous experience for the radio
other than just knowing the game.

BH: In your three years with DRN, what has been your most memorable moment on the air?
BC: There are a few. The second most memorable moment was at Duke. My radio partner [Santore] just got so
excited, so into the game, that he just fell out of his chair. That was at Duke 2 years ago—the
first game I had ever done. The most memorable moment was when Davidson defeated Appalachian State in the Southern Conference
Tournament to advance to the NCAA Tournament.

BH: What has impressed you about the Wildcats so far this season?
BC: This season so far I’ve only seen them play in the exhibition games and the one game against Guilford.
I think their inside presence [in that game] — granted it was against a Division III team — was great.
But no doubt, their strength is...Inside, especially with the addition of Ides, who's really maturing. If they can get their
perimeter game situated with some leadership, it’ll really round out the team. I think that’s what they're looking for.

BH: Do you have a favorite Wildcat that you like to watch play?

BC: Over the last couple of years, I've really liked Ali Ton, the way he played. I was a point
guard in college, and I really enjoyed watching him develop as a player. He made everybody else better, and he
always played hard and very savvy, and that was just exciting to watch.

BH: Do you expect anybody to have a breakout season this year?

BC: I really like Wayne Bernard; he’s a kid who has a lot of potential. His skills are there, and
he is becoming a better shooter. Wayne is a very good defender, and I think the more he plays with
his teammates, the better he’s going to be.

BH: What is your opinion on the Wildcats’ inability to finish certain games, not being able to hold on to
leads until the final buzzer, like against Siena? Have you noticed any late-game trends in Davidson's play that the team
could work on?

BC: Well, it’s still early in the season and mistakes are going to be made, but I think it’s not
defensive as much as it is offensive — knowing when to shoot and what shot to take. And that comes
with experience. Siena was the first game of the season against a Top 25 team at their place. Sometimes the
atmosphere can make you hurry your shots. I’m sure they’ve worked on recognizing what is a good shot at what
time in the game, and hopefully that will improve because they play that toe-to-toe style of basketball that lends itself
to close games. Still, I think any time they pound it inside, I think they are going to do it
and be successful; that’s their strength.

BH: How do you think Landry has grown and matured as a basketball player over the last three years?

BC: I think his confidence level has improved. He brought up the quote earlier in the year about not doubting
himself and that’s the key. He works harder than anybody, and when you've got the ability and size to be
a good player, that comes together in your own mind and brings out the ultimate player, which I think has
happened to him. I think he’s playing at that level.

BH: We have a lot of fresh talent this year in players such as Tonella, Bernard, and Pearson, who's getting
game experience for the first time after his redshirt year. Also, a lot of the veterans have gained more experience.
Do you think if we play our “A” game — the best basketball that we’re capable of playing — that
we can beat Duke?

BC: Oh yeah, there’s no doubt. We could win at Cameron if everyone plays as well as he’s capable of
playing. We could even win in double digits, if Duke is not at the top of their game. If all
ten players on the floor are playing at their best level, then Duke clearly has the advantage, but if Duke
is just a little off or not playing at their peak, I think certainly Davidson can beat them.

BH: If you could pick the perfect game to call, what would it be?

BC: Well, everyone knows that the Duke game is probably the biggest game for Davidson. I think it'd be great
if Davidson is up by one point with 10 seconds to go, their [Duke’s] new point man, Jason Williams, bringing
the ball down Cameron Indoor Stadium with the crowd going crazy, and Davidson has to get a stop. One of
Davidson's mainstays is its defense and I'd like to see that go to work and get a stop against the
Duke Blue Devils to win the game at Cameron. That'd be tremendous. I'd definitely have to pick Frank Santore off
the floor at that one.

BH: Is most of your commentary on-the-cuff or do you and Frank work out a strategy before the game for
what you guys will talk about during the broadcast?

102 S. Main St. upstairs 895-0977 Student references available... Need your hay done?

Bernard, Ides, Marshall, and Tonella to the bench prematurely. “He just manhandled our players in the paint.” While UNCC is
a perennial Conference-USA championship contender and has made it to the NCAAs five times this decade, the Wildcats usually play
the Niners to a close game, but Wednesday night’s 19-point loss was Davidson’s largest margin of defeat by UNCC since
the teams’ first meeting of the 1992-93 season.

Notes: Freshman Wayne Bernard started his fourth game of the season... UNCC was without Diego Guevara, who was named the
best shooter in Conference-USA by The Sporting News... Davidson (2-2) next travels to Elon College Dec. 8 for a 7
p.m. contest against the Fightin’ Christians.

Hardin is The Davidsonian’s Sports Editor. This story originally appeared in The Wildcat Report, a monthly newsletter that covers men’s
hoops.
