DAVIDSON

“Oak Row’s Foremost
College Weekly”

Established 1914

2003 admissions process complete.

NEWS 5

Wise words!

OPINIONS 8

Hyper-real paintings!

A&L 12

Tracksters tear it up at Wake!

SPORTS 13

Ship, and women’s rights

By Laura McCampbell
Staff Writer

On Thursday night, the Campus Forums Committee, Speakers’ Committee, and the Women’s Issues Committee had scheduled a debate concerning “Pornography and Women’s Rights” between Dr. Nadine Strossen, the president of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and a liberal feminist, and Dr. Gail Dines, a radical feminist and sociologist.

Unfortunately, Strossen, the author of “Defending Pornography,” could not participate due to a family medical emergency; instead, Dines presented an interactive presentation for the audience in the 900 room. This event was a feature of Women’s Month.

Campbell Goodloe ’00 introduced Dines. A professor of sociology and women’s studies at Wheelock College in Boston, she is the co-author of the book, “Pornography: The Production and Consumption of Inequality.”

In the debate, Dines had planned to expose the negative effects of pornography while Strossen had planned to share her opposing view that pornography must be tolerated as a form of free speech. Instead, Dines gave the audience a slide show and presentation that was open to questions and input.

She began by saying that she intended to “introduce the pornography industry, and the effects of pornography on women’s lives in this society.” Dines criticized our modern society for being an image-based one, whereas we used to be a print-based culture. “We are bombarded with images every day,” she said, “and images are the most seductive form of communication. They draw you in.”

Dines said the main problem with this type of society is that “we live in an image-based culture with a largely image illiterate population.” Thus, Dines told the audience that her purpose was “to introduce you to media literacy and teach you how to interpret the images that bombard you every day.”

Dines criticized the images in advertising “that portray women as property and men as property owners,” even if they aren’t explicitly intended to be pornographic material. “Many also say you don’t mean ‘Playboy’ when you are talking about pornography,” she added, “but it is. Anything that is mass-produced and distributed to stimulate male masturbation is pornographic.” In pornography, Dines said, “Women are dehumanized and reduced to male masturbation facilitators.”

See Pornography on page 5

COLLEGE RELATIONS

In Great Britain, surrounded daily by the English language, thousands of people speak Welsh instead of the country’s dominant language. Emily Setina, a Davidson senior from Dallas, TX, will spend the next year studying how and why the Welsh and two other isolated pockets of indigenous people in Europe maintain their ancient languages.

Her travels and study will be funded by a $22,000 grant from the Thomas J. Watson Foundation, which recently named Setina as one of its 60 Watson Fellows for 1999. More than 1,000 students applied to the first round of the selection, describing their ideal “wanderjahr” outside of the United States.

Setina based her Watson proposal on her love of poetry, photography, and previous travels to Europe. She made her first trip to Wales during the summer of 1997, while studying at Cambridge University in England on a Davidson study abroad program. She received a grant from Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program in International Studies to return last summer for a closer look at Welsh culture. She spent five weeks at that time studying Welsh language and poetry by taking language classes and traveling independently to visit Welsh poets and an old family friend.

She became fascinated with the tenacity of the culture, and when she returned decided to apply for the highly competitive Watson Fellowship. She explained, “The people who still speak Welsh are a minority and do so intentionally. They show an amazing tenacity to hold onto their language in the face of a vastly dominating language.”

In addition to her time in Wales, Setina will spend time studying poetry in two other Celtic languages: Breton in the Brittany region of northern France and Gaelic in Ireland. In Ireland, she will work through the Poet’s House, a center for the study of Gaelic poetry.

An avid photographer, she will also document the minority populations and their natural environments. She said, “It’s interesting that all three are coastal cultures. I think that landscape may influence language, the way things are named.”

Her photographs and poems she plans to write will give her a means of sharing her year with others. “My photographs and my poetry will give me two different ways of representing the experience and bringing it back to share with others,” she explained.

See Watson Fellowship on page 4

INDEX

NEWS 5
OPINIONS 8
A&L 12
SPORTS 13

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036