THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sponsored by ‘the letter “V.”’ 

This week’s Op

Reviewing for a Review

Tomorrow is my first “review.” To be perfectly candid, currently I am quite unprepared. I am of the fullest conviction that I am not ready for the first major college challenge that will influence the rest of my adult life. Frankly, this sucks. I mean, really... To say that one test in one 50-minute period (not even an hour) is going to affect the rest of my life is a hard pill to swallow. I plan on living a long time, say two or three hundred years, and it would be preferable if I could do this without having to look back to the one moment of indiscretion when I was eighteen and decided to play games rather than study that extra half-hour. Is it a half-hour? Or is it an hour? Maybe two, maybe three... How am I to know?

To revert to economics for a minute (even though the test is an entirely different subject), how do I know when the marginal benefit stops exceeding the marginal cost. (I am sorry Prof. Anderson; I just butchered that, didn’t I?) In lay terms, at what point will my extra studying no longer be beneficial?

There are two kinds of study groups: social gatherings that take place under the context of “studying” and a group of determined individuals who all would rather study on their own but are hoping to leech some information from their fellow classmates. Don’t get me wrong, I have no qualms about leeching or being leeched. I merely question whether this is the best method for the consumption of large amounts of data in an increasingly small time span. However, study groups have beneficial aspects as well. They keep you motivated. Example: if I were in a study group now, I wouldn’t be writing this article. Maybe I have a duty to society that is greater than any “review”: to provide the community of Davidson with three minutes of marginal entertainment every week... Nah.

Note: A special thanks (?) to Prof. Menkhaus who provided me with a topic for this week's article.

Andrew MacDonald ’03

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

The Other Side

Up against the wall and spread ‘em

First, an apology. We were informed that the numbers on the ranking of Christianity gained by our lobotomized monkey, Bobo, were incorrect. We apologize for such a grievous error and upon realizing this, we shot him on sight. Our new head of research is Chuck, the three-armed, narcoleptic banana slug. May he not be so unlucky, although we do own up to the fact that research is not something we practice. It may prove some of our opinions wrong... and we don’t like that.

And now for today’s topic, gun control. While thumbing through the artifacts in our neighbor’s room, we happened upon a certain piece of fine literature about which we felt we had to write (stupid grammar). The magazine in question is the 1999 Annual Handguns. On the cover one can see that one can read about such important topics as, “reloading tips for your favorite calibers,” “Tactical training from an expert” and finally, “Top choices for concealed carry.” Now, does this frighten anyone else? Being open-minded Americans, we had to see what the top choices for concealed carry were, and we were happy to find out that they recommend you not carry anything “... below a nine.” Because those little .22’s are so wussy, and they can barely kill a person. News flash here people, and Chuck has assured us of this, it is NOT the 19th Century. As a culture we do not need to be worried about shoot-outs at high noon. Is there really a reason to carry a concealed weapon? NO!

Now, before we receive a mob of angry letters... again, let us just say that we are okay with legal gun owners who lock their guns up and only shoot at people and things we don’t like. We have three big problems with guns: gun regulations are too loose, semi-automatic and automatic assault weapons, and concealed weapons, the ludicrousness of which we have already discussed.

First, let us tackle gun regulations. As Homer Simpson so eloquently stated when attempting to purchase a gun and was told there is a five-day waiting period, “Five days, but I’m angry now!” The waiting period and background checks are a good thing, but they are not going far enough. Gun shows do not have to follow such regulations and pawnshops can be less than stringent with the background check. We are not calling for a ban on guns here folks, all we want is for the gun makers to stop worrying about how much money they can make, and make guns a little less accessible.Let's face it, if you’re going to use your gun for legal purposes, you should not mind slightly tighter restrictions on how you can get your guns or having to wait a few extra days before you get your finger around that trigger. Finally, who in their right mind needs an assault rifle? Are you honestly worried about your house being attacked by a bunch of paramilitary guerrillas? A hunting rifle is understandable for hunting, but who are you honestly going to legally “assault” from your home? If your defense is to use it for hunting purposes, how many deer wear a bulletproof vest, or are so dangerous that you need the capacity to unload numerous rounds per second into them?

And now for the Springer final thought. There are times in life when Mom’s meatloaf just isn’t up to snuff, but this is not a reason to pull out the Glock 9 and... Doh, poignant, but off again. We understand that the 2nd Amendment gives you the right to bear arms... or the right to arm bears, or whatever the hell you want to do. But remember, as Bill Maher said, “It’s the Second Amendment, not Commandment.” This Amendment was written over 200 years ago, when the founding fathers honestly had to worry about the King of England pushing them around. However, our society today does not have such worries, so maybe it’s time to put our guns up, concealed or otherwise, and make a change, before we all have to revert to sitting with our backs up against walls and away from windows, and mentally reciting lines from Dirty Harry.

Cort Heroy ’02
Dave Stroupe ’02

To be honest, I have no earthly idea. This scares me. Maybe by doing the homework and taking diligent notes in class I am already prepared. Or, it could be that I require six hours of studying to reach optimal preparation. In high school, I could have skipped the homework, taken notes on the napkin from my lunch bag, and studied during the ten-minute period between classes; I would have been fine. As I assume that you have noticed by now, I am writing this meaningless and unnecessary article instead of studying. I feel that I must defend myself. First of all, this article isn’t meaningless... at least it isn’t meaningless to me... Secondly, I hate to study! My theory (which will undoubtedly be tragically disproved in less than 24 hours) is that if I pay attention and understand the class, I must already know everything for the review. (By the way, don’t get me started on the topic of why they call what is most definitely a very large and important test a “review.”)

Since I have already reached the conclusion that my theory will fail, I now must decide what to study. I am adamantly opposed to rereading the volumes of text I have consumed over the past few weeks. Not to mention, the logistics of such an undertaking are absurd. Then there is the possibility of...

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS SEEKING PAID TUTORS

THE AVID PROGRAM (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)

AVID is a program designed to prepare middle-achieving students in grades 6-12 for four-year college and university entry and success. If you are enrolled at a college or university, you are a candidate for this position. You must be:

- Enrolled in a college or university with good academic standings
- Able to work in a supportive manner with middle-level and high school students and teachers
- Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
- Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
- Willing to receive three hours of training in the AVID teaching methodologies
- An excellent role model for motivated, organized, and successful students
- Representative of a balanced academic background

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year
Salary: $7.50 per hour

For additional information, please complete and return to the following:

Charlotte Mecklenburg Schools - AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street, Suite 506
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
(704) 343-6975

POTENTIAL AVID TUTOR (Personal Information)
Telephone:
Message Telephone:
College/University:
Middle or High School preference:

Great Ice Cream & So Much More!

Ben and Jerry’s Ice Cream is searching for people to showcase their talents in our scoop shop. We are looking for musical or other talents for evening performances. Nothing is too small or different since we pay in ice cream!!!

INTERESTED? Come by Ben and Jerry’s at 202 South Main Street and pick up a talent application.