_ FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1999

4. In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or help this progression?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate for the job?

and numerous conferences and diversity discussions. I also know that this issue needs lots more work, and that an SGA that is highly accessible to students will continue to improve the situation.

4. I see the SGA moving toward a more unified and concrete purpose. I will encourage campus committees to solidify and meet more regularly and the Senators to better meet the needs of their constituents. Because the SGA is defined as the students’ major representative body, I would like to see it better fulfill this purpose. The SGA should energetically and enthusiastically address the needs of the students. One of the most important ways that things get done on this campus is through the committee system. The SGA Vice President oversees this system, which means that responsibility for committees from the Council on Minority Affairs to the Lights Out committee falls on the office. This is the most important aspect of the office. I am extremely familiar with the way the Senate works. I’ve chaired and sat on committees, so I know both sides of that street. I am very comfortable with the By-Laws (which doesn’t mean I don’t think there are changes that can be made) and Parliamentary Procedure. But most importantly, I have wanted this opportunity since I was a freshman. I have the experience and I have the desire to do a really good job.

4. In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or help this progression?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate for the job?

In recent semesters I have seen the SGA actively trying to work on the issue of diversity by sponsoring various events, and I hope that they will continue to deal with the issue by addressing it openly and working toward finding solutions.

4. I see the SGA playing a more active role with the concerns of the student body. My vision is to help this progression by encouraging senators to keep in constant communication with their constituents. As the Vice President, I would try my best to be a model for other senators by communicating openly with the Senate as well as the student body.

5. I enjoy people. I want to work closely with the President and the Senate to listen and address the concerns of the student body. I want any vote that I cast on any given issue to represent the best interests of the student body. I am an enthusiastic, hard-working individual who would like to serve each Davidson student and I feel that the Vice Presidency would allow me to do so.

THE DAVIDSONIAN | SGA VICE PRESIDENT

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?

2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do you plan to bridge the gap between the Senate and the President to help this progression?

3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What is your stance and how will you deal with it?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate for the job?

1. I have extensive experience in the SGA. I have been a senator for two years, serving as a freshman senator and as sophomore class president. My most recent efforts have involved initiating and co-chairing the “Lights Out” Committee. I also chair the Building Services Committee, which acts as a liaison between the Physical Plant and the student body.

2. I plan to bridge the gap between the Senate and the President by building relationships with the Senate body. Many times the President envisions a goal and the responsibility falls on the VP to make that goal a reality. By building relationships in the Senate and knowing each senator’s individual qualities, I will be able to delegate the right jobs to the right people.

3. One of the most pressing issues facing the SGA right now is increasing the output of all its voting members. A large majority of the work done in the SGA is accomplished by less than one-third of the senators. Recently, the SGA passed a resolution requiring more participation from senators in SGA-sponsored events. This resolution was a first step in the right direction.

5. Because of my involvement around the campus, I can relate to many different types of students including Patterson Court house members and athletes. In addition, I believe I can bring energy and excitement to the job. As chairperson of the Intercouncil, consultant to the President, important member of the SEC, and senator in the SGA, the VP needs experience, energy, and a good grasp of the students’ concerns. I believe I have all three traits.this leadership position?
2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do you plan to best bridge this gap?
3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What is your stance and how will you deal with it?
4. In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or help this progression?
5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate for the job?

1. I served as a co-coordinator of Habitat for Humanity and am currently a Service Ambassador and the publicity chair of Reach Out. I am also a hall counselor where I deal with communication issues, problem-solving, and organization on a daily basis.
4. Sometimes it seems that there is only a core group of SGA members working without much interaction with the rest of the campus. I would love to see more students become involved, and I have the energy needed to get people just as excited about Davidson and SGA as I am!
2. From serving many organizations, I understand how different groups work. This will help me unite the students and the SGA, especially on the Intercouncil.
5. The Vice President’s primary roles, as I see them, are to listen to people’s concerns, to aid the President in his/her duties, to bring people together on committees, and to keep everyone enthusiastic about the SGA. The Vice President should be someone who loves Davidson. I feel that I exemplify all the qualities needed to fill this position. From my range of interests and activities, I will bring a fresh perspective to the SGA. I have a surplus of energy that I am excited to use as the Vice President. Most of all, I adore Davidson College!
3. Davidson’s lack of awareness about different groups and interests on campus seems to be the latest issue challenging the SGA. I would love to see this issue tackled by making each week a different awareness week. Organizations could sponsor a week, heightening their exposure and increasing others’ knowledge.

UNION BOARD PRESIDENT

1. How do you propose to keep the student body motivated in and involved in the agenda of the Union Board?
2. What experiences and interests qualify you for this post?
3. What new and exciting things would you propose for your term?
4. What is the biggest weakness and how do you feel you can use this to best serve the student body?
5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate for the job?

1. I believe that the Union must continue to be a resource that is readily available to everyone in the Davidson community. This means several things. Having worked on the Union Board, I feel reasonably qualified to say that involvement and enthusiasm for Union events is a direct function of three basic elements: an interesting and exciting variety of activities, the hard work and visibility of a dedicated Union Board, and effective advertising and promotional work. These are all things that the current group does very well, but as with any organization, the Union Board has tremendous potential for growth and improvement.
3. I think that any group of Union officers must carefully consider the desires of the students that the Union represents. After all, the Union Board does have control of considerable funds drawn from the student body. To this end, I will endeavor to address the concerns of the student body as recently articulated by such media as the Davidsonian, the Union survey that was conducted last fall, and the general perception of Union events. For example, the Union survey showed a strong demand for big-name bands, a concern that is currently being addressed and that the Board should continue to pursue in the coming year. I hope to draw together a diverse Union Board representing all elements of campus to help effectively serve the entire student body.
2. I have spent the past year as a member at large of the Union Board. In this capacity, I have been privileged to work with many of Davidson’s administrative and student leaders. One of my responsibilities as a member at large was to serve as the liaison between the Union and the Student Government Association. In addition, I have worked on occasion with Auxiliary Services and the Dean of Students Office. Also, I spent this summer working in the Union as an operations assistant, greatly enhancing my knowledge and understanding of Union events and programming. I strongly believe that these experiences have taught me what is required to run a successful Union.
4. My biggest weakness is one that is bound to beset any Union Board president. This is a big job, and no one has the energy or the patience to do it alone. This will force reliance on my fellow officers and on the committee chairs. Such reliance is crucial to the activities of a healthy board.
5. The job of Union Board President requires a great deal of behind-the-scenes work that relies on a thorough familiarity with the workings and interactions of the Union Board, both within itself and in its place among other campus entities. I believe that my experiences with these various organizations make me the best candidate for the job.