PAUSE .-: ~ S .- 7; @ : D A

Wildcats stun Georgetown for biggest victory in decades

By J. D. LARAMORE & MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writers

It’s already been lauded as perhaps the most stunning victory on the gridiron in Davidson’s storied history of college football. The 28-27 victory in Washington D.C. marked the Wildcats' first victory over a Division I-AA opponent since 1992. And it wasn’t against just any I-AA team; the Hoyas finished second last year in national coaches’ polls of I-AA non-scholarship football programs. Furthermore, the Hoyas (undefeated until Saturday) had not lost a home game since November 22, 1997.

Georgetown pounced to a 27-7 lead, before Tim Landis injected freshman quarterback Paul Nichols into the Wildcats’ sputtering option attack. Assisted by some miraculous defensive and special teams efforts, Nichols engineered a heroic comeback that will be forever etched in the annals of Wildcat football history.

The Wildcats’ first defensive series Saturday offered flashbacks to the glory days of ’98 when Davidson’s miserly defense averaged only 10 points per game. But then J.J. Mont and the Hoyas exploded for 20 points in the first half. Georgetown place kicker Paul Wiorowski missed an extra point try in the first quarter, a gaffe that would come back to haunt him later that day.

The Wildcats were equally impotent on both sides of the line of scrimmage in the first half, only managing to enter Hoya territory on a few scarce occasions over the first two quarters. Quarterback Shaun Tyrance (10-23 passing for 93 yards) was unable to string together a scoring drive until late in the first half, when he marshaled the ’Cats downfield, completing passes to Corey Crawford, Marcus McFadden, and Roland Williams. Senior Eric Ferguson capped off the scoring drive with an 11-yard run, cutting the halftime deficit to 20-7.

The second half commenced in a fashion frustratingly similar to the first. Corey Crawford received the kick-off and appeared about to break free when the ball fumbled out of his grip into the hands of an oncoming Hoya. Just seconds later, Georgetown had again punched the ball into the Wildcat end zone, extending their lead to 27-7. The scoring seemed to slow to a halt over the third quarter, with the Hoyas nursing a comfortable three-touchdown lead.

But Tim Landis’s Wildcats needed a spark; instead, he found an explosion in a 5’11” freshman quarterback named Paul Nichols. Dubbed by radio broadcaster Frank Santore as “The Demon of Dunwoody,” Nichols mounted a 99-yard touchdown drive in his first possession on the afternoon. The 99-yard scoring drive cut the deficit to 14, and the ’Cats attempted an on-side kick. That Davidson was unable to recover the kick proved inconsequential as Ryan Crawford leapt in front of Hoya tight end Reid Wakefield for a clutch interception on the Hoyas’ first play from scrimmage. The offense took over at their own 18-yard line, and Nichols again delivered an impressive touchdown drive. Employing a series of roll-out passes and handoffs to Ferguson, Nichols & Co. steamrolled downfield. This time Nichols carried the ball in himself from3 yards out, diminishing the deficit to 27-21. Once again, the Wildcats lined up for a desperation on-side kick. On what has been dubbed “the Immaculate bounce,” Davidson was able to scoop up the squiggling pigskin. The recovery armed Nichols and the Wildcat offense with one final chance to orchestrate an epic upheaval of the national powerhouse. With 1:48 left to play, the Wildcat offense needed just five plays to score the game-tying touchdown. The day’s other first-year hero, kicker Daniel Hanks, continued his perfect string of extra point attempts to put the Wildcats up 28-27 (their only lead of the day). Georgetown’s final hopes at repressing the surging Wildcat tide were vested in a desperation 52-yard field goal attempt. The kick sailed wide left, and the Wildcats sealed the stunning upset. Offensive lineman Andy Countryman had high words of praise for the upstart quarterback: “Nichols came in and just took control of the game.” Coach Tim Landis agreed, “[Nichols] exemplified tremendous poise on the field.” Utilizing a fast-paced approach to keep the Hoya defense disoriented and on their heels, Nichols pounded the ball downfield time and time again. The freshman showed remarkable poise and pleasant humility on the afternoon. “The receivers just came down with the ball when I put it out there. I went in and just tried to do what I was supposed to do.” “He went out there and took advantage of what they gave him,” explained radio commentator Dave Fagg.

PAUL NICHOLS
The freshman quarterback led Davidson to its most stunning football victory in memory. Nichols completed 7 of eight attempts for 83 yards, while rushing for 31 yards and two touchdowns on eight carries. Daniel Hanks (#31) is flawless this season, nailing all 17 PATs and 3 FG attempts. Ryan Crawford (#2) embraces senior defensive lineman Rowan Driscoll after a Wildcat stop. Jake Harrington

“This season takes a big turn now. It brings a new perspective to our season.” - Freshman QB Paul Nichols

“We were confident at the half that we could win and we showed that in the second half,” said junior lineman Matt Hurt. “This season takes a big turn now. It brings a new perspective to our season,” Nichols said after the game. “Let’s stop and play Randolph Macon (next week’s opponent) on the way home,” Landis reveled. The ’99 edition of the Wildcat football squad has endured some doubts and less-than-flattering comparisons to the ’98 record-breaking squad. Perhaps the Davidson squad heard the words of President Clinton echoing through the air in our nation’s capital: “We have heard the trumpets, we have changed the guard. And now, each in our own way, and with God’s help, we must answer.” Whatever the inspiration, Saturday’s landmark performance assured the ’99 Wildcats a place all their own in the record books.

VOLLEYBALL
The Wildcats take their perfect Southern Conference record on the road to Chattanooga to kick off the second round of conference competition. Chattanooga's only loss to date was at the hands of the Wildcats on September 17.

@ Chattanooga
Friday 7:00 PM

Men’s Soccer
Field Hockey
Women’s Soccer
Volleyball
Golf
Commentary

Associate head coach and defensive coordinator Tripp Merritt.