“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”
Established 1914

Day of the Dead returns
Mexican holiday highlighted in presentation

NEWS 3

“Wannabe hedonists?”
A senior reassesses “the Court.”

OPINIONS 8

Don’t be mean.

Another awareness week?

A&L 10

Five final minutes
Senior takes soccer field for the last time

SPORTS 13

Poll suggests likely rebirth of coed eating houses

By Lauren Daniel
Staff Writer

The results are in, and once again, the thought
of a co-ed eating house is entering Davidson
students’ minds as they evaluate the effects it
would have on Patterson Court life.

Two hundred and seventy students responded
to the SGA survey, distributed in late September
“to see how the student body would support a new
social option,” says Jesse Smallwood ’00, senior
chairman of the Polling and Response Committee. The sample’s social affiliation broke down to
be 34 fraternity members, 74 eating house members, 71 independents, and 69 freshmen.

The survey questioned the effect of a co-ed
eating house on the court and 58% of the surveyed
students thought that it would be positive while
only 15% saw it to be a negative change. The rest
of the students believed that the change would
have no significant effect. The number of students
who reported that they would join the co-ed house
were less than the number of supporters; 32%
were likely to join. Although the numbers are
lower, that still leaves 88 students with an interest
and because only 40 students are needed to start a
house, this would be enough support to get work
for a co-ed house underway.

The idea of a co-ed house is supported the
most fervently by the independents, next by the
eating-house members, and least by fraternity
members, as was expected by the Polling and
Response Committee. As for joining the new
house, only 11% of fraternity members surveyed
said that they were likely to join while 30% of
independents and 54% of eating house members
said they were likely to make the switch.

The last time coed eating houses were formed
was the beginning of coeducation at the college
when four coed houses were created. According
to a self-survey of students and faculty at Davidson, the school needs more activities for men and
women together. A new house may be one way to
satisfy the push for more co-ed interactions on
campus.

Students are gravitating towards the idea of
a co-ed eating house for several different reasons,
as was apparent at their organizational meeting in September. The coordinators, Dane Erickson ’01 and
Ben Carter ’01, both enthusiastically expressed
their ideas of looking for something a little different from the typical Patterson Court night. Erickson
believes that “the court satisfies some but not all.”
The general consensus was that they were all
looking for a laid-back place to hang out, and they
believe that the co-ed eating house will give them
a more relaxed atmosphere. Although the desire
exists, the group has a few obstacles to overcome
before their dream may become reality. A home
for the new group is not guaranteed, but both the
Outpost (upon completion of the new Union) and
the Pax dorm (upon completion of the new residence hall) will be possibilities. Although remodeling would have to be done,
the members of
the eating house would not have to foot the bill.

As for now, the group is looking for more
interested students. The students are beginning
to plan events to attract interested students such
as date functions, dinners, and other social events.
The group has planned to meet every Sunday night
at the Commons for dinner to begin to form solidarity among future members.

Smallwood points out that the survey found
that “there is a significantly large group of the
Davidson community that think that co-ed eating
houses would have a positive effect on the campus.” Although not everyone would join one, he
added, there is enough support to reestablish co-ed
eating houses at Davidson.

Bill Giduz

Clothesline Project
comes to Davidson

By Anne Stancil
Staff Writer

If you have walked through Chambers during the past week, you have probably noticed t-shirts hanging in the lobby. Closer
examination
reveals that these shirts have been decorated in
opposition to violence against women. Each
color shirt represents a different sort of violence:
red for rape, white for murder, blue and green for
incest, yellow for assault, and purple for assault
against sexual orientation. Anyone can make a
memorial shirt for themselves or a loved one.
The Clothesline Project began in Hyannis,
Massachusetts when women realized that at the
same time that 58,000 men were killed during the
Vietnam conflict, 51,000 American women were

> See T-shirts on page 4

MASTHEAD
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 8
OPINIONS 8
ARTS & LIVING 9
SPORTS 13

Davidson, NC 28036
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
