_ TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1999

Middle East expert to speak

By Faup Gut
College Relations

Retired Ambassador Henry Precht will deliver a speech entitled “Turkey, Iran and Egypt — Three Big Pieces for the U.S. Policy Puzzle” on Wednesday evening, April 21. The presentation will occur at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. Ambassador Precht will also speak to a “History of Islamic Civilization” class earlier in the day. One of the principal architects of U.S. foreign policy towards Iran in the 80s, Ambassador Precht was in charge of the Iran desk in the State Department during the Tehran hostage crisis in 1979-80.

Ambassador Precht was born in Savannah, Ga. and graduated from Emory University, later receiving an MA from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. He joined the Foreign Service in 1961, serving first in Rome and later in Mauritius. Most of his career was in the Middle East, with postings to Alexandria, Egypt in the 1960s and Tehran in the 1970s. His last posting was in Cairo from 1981-85, where he was present when President Anwar Sadat was assassinated.

Of particular significance was his assignment as Officer in Charge of Iranian Affairs in the State Department from 1978-80, during the Iranian revolution and hostage crisis. During this period, he was frequently interviewed by the press and appeared on the MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour. He was in the thick of negotiations with senior Iranians, making several secret trips to Europe with White House Chief of Staff Hamilton Jordan during the crisis.

Midway through the hostage crisis, he drew widespread international media attention when he used rough language with the Iranian chargé d’affaires, earning a personal commendation from President Jimmy Carter.

After he retired from the State Department in 1987, he taught at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, and then the Kennedy School of Government for a short time. He eventually moved to Cleveland, where he taught at Case Western Reserve University. Keeping in touch with his former profession, he served as president of the Council on World Affairs and often conducted interviews on international issues. He presently resides outside Washington, D.C., and leads tours with his wife for the Council to the Middle East.

His visit to Davidson is sponsored by the history department, the Public Lectures Committee, and the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies.

Davidson hosts Relay for Life

By Carrie Arthur
News Editor

On Friday, April 16 and Saturday, April 17, forty teams from around the Davidson community and the College converged on the College’s practice football field for this year’s Relay for Life, a constant walk-a-thon from 6 p.m. Friday until 2 p.m. Saturday. Although Relay for Life is an annual fundraiser for the American Cancer Society, this year was the first time that the College has hosted such an event.

Patterson Court Council service co-chair Desirae Haylock ’00 coordinated the College’s efforts with Christine Larend ’01. Haylock said that Relay was one of the American Cancer Society’s main fundraisers and a big Patterson Court service project. Twelve teams of ten to fifteen people represented the Patterson Court Council and the College: a PCC executive board team (which included some faculty), a BSC team, a Connor team, five Rusk teams, a Turner team, a Warner Hall team, a Kappa Sig team, and a SigEp team. Davidson Community Service Coordinator Bill Abrams also led a team.

Participation in Relay for Life was worth thirty points of the 100 PCC service points standard for each house. Despite the large point value, not all of Davidson’s fraternities participated in the event.

The American Cancer Society asked that each team raise $1,000. Although the amount was highly suggested, Haylock said that it was not an absolute requirement.

Please see Relay for Life on next page

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1999

4:00 P.M.

LOVE AUDITORIUM
CHAMBERS BUILDING

Free food, entertainment, and fun!

Rain location: Chambers Gallery
Sponsored by the EAC and SGA

The Davidsonian

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY III
WESLEY W. MILNER

Business Manager
SCOTT EDER

News Editor
CARRIE ARTHUR

Features Editor
ASHLEY EASTERLY

Circulation Manager
EUGENIA EARL

Sports Editor
MIKE ANDERSON

Advertising Managers
PETER COOK
JAMES JOHNSTON

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBO

Founded in 1914
“28036’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.