THE DAVIDSONIAN

Appointment to professorship confirms Prof. Shaw’s commitment to Humanities

Press Release
College Relations

Brian J. Shaw, a political science professor attracted to Davidson College in 1982 because of its interdisciplinary Humanities Program, has been named as the college’s next E. Craig Wall, Jr. Distinguished Teaching Professor in Humanities.

The two-year appointment permits Shaw to teach exclusively in the Humanities Program and to develop a workshop for other faculty members involved in it. Shaw said he is enthusiastic about the opportunity to focus on Humanities, a two-year sequence of four courses designed to introduce students to Western history, literature, art, philosophy, and religion. He said, “The opportunity to teach in ‘Humes’ was one of the reasons I applied to Davidson in the first place, so the chance to devote myself exclusively to the program for two years is extremely attractive."

Shaw continued, “My involvement with Humanities has put me in close contact with colleagues from other departments who know a lot about things that interest me, and I’ve learned a tremendous amount from them. It has allowed me to get that great liberal arts education I never received in undergraduate school.”

Shaw has been heavily involved with Humanities throughout his Davidson career. He has taught each of its courses, served at various times as semester director and year director of the second-year program, and from 1993 to 1996 chaired the entire program. He also served on a Humanities Task Force in fall 1997 that reviewed the program’s effectiveness, and recently authored a history of the 36-year-old program.

Shaw said the Wall Professorship reinforces his commitment to interdisciplinary teaching and said he will do what he can to reinforce the importance of Humanities at Davidson. He believes the Humanities Task Force’s call for individual instructors to exercise greater autonomy in selecting curricular material should help reinvigorate the program and attract more faculty to it. “I see a need for Humanities to refashion itself, if not actually reinvent itself,” he said. “We need to recast it in ways to engender the enthusiasm and commitment of a new generation of teachers/scholars. One of the program’s great strengths is strong ties to its 1962 roots, but that’s also a liability to the extent that the scholarly interests of newer faculty members aren’t necessarily the same as those who founded the program almost four decades ago.”

His scholarly interests center around issues in 20th-century continental and North American political theory, and especially those raised by philosophers like Georg Lukács, Max Horkheimer, Jürgen Habermas, and John Rawls. The interdisciplinary nature of his interest and work is reflected in the fact that his publications have appeared in journals of philosophy, political science, and intellectual history. “My own work frequently crosses disciplinary boundaries,” he noted, “and explores issues engaging not only political philosophers, but literary theorists and theologians as well.”

The Wall Professorship also provides funds for summer research, and Shaw expects he will return to Europe for archival research in Frankfurt, Paris, and Budapest. The appointment also allows the political science department to hire a replacement for Shaw during his two-year Humanities appointment. He regularly teaches courses in modern and contemporary political philosophy and has offered advanced seminars on a range of topics, including Marxism, welfare state policy, and Central American politics and religion. He plans this spring to teach a new seminar on affirmative action.

Shaw received his undergraduate degree in psychology from the University of New York at Stony Brook, then studied in France for a year at the University of Dijon. He earned his Masters and Ph.D. degrees in political science from UNC-Chapel Hill, and began teaching immediately thereafter at Davidson.

Shaw is Davidson’s third E. Craig Wall, Jr. Distinguished Teaching Professor in Humanities. The program was established in May 1993 by friends of the late E. Craig Wall, Jr., a 1959 Davidson graduate and lifelong servant of the college who was chair of the Board of Trustees at the time the professorship was announced. The first two holders of the chair were Robert Manning and Peter Krentz.

Davidson professor wins Pushcart Prize for

Press Release
College Relations

One of Davidson College’s newest professors, Alan Michael Parker of the English department, has wona 1999 Pushcart Prize in poetry, one of the highest awards given annually for individual English-language poems. Parker, who joined the faculty last fall, was honored for his poem “Vandals, Horses,” which originally appeared in 1997 in “The Antioch Review” and is now reprinted in The Pushcart Prize XXIII; Best of the Literary Magazines and Small Presses. Parker is one of 31 poets named as winners this year, in addition to 38 writers of nonfiction and fiction prose. They were selected from hundreds of nominations submitted by editors of literary journals and small presses and the 200-plus members of the Pushcart Prize editorial board. As a winner this year, Parker joins that editorial board and will be eligible to nominate poets for future Pushcart Prizes.

“Vandals, Horses” is part of Parker’s book-length series of poems entitled The Vandals that BOA Editions Limited will publish next May. The book revolves around a tribe of medieval European marauders, the Vandals, who are transported into the 20th century, where they cause mayhem. “Vandals, Horses” is a short poem concerning the dreams of the Vandals.

Parker was raised in the New York City area and attended Washington University to study writing and humanities. He continued his studies to earn an M.F.A. degree in poetry at the Columbia University School of the Arts, where his instructors included Nobel Prize winner Joseph Brodsky. Parker then taught at Rutgers University, the Parsons School of Design, and Penn State University before joining the Davidson faculty this year to teach courses in writing and 20th century literature. His first book was a 1996 co-edited volume, The Routledge Anthology of Cross-Gendered Verse. He published the first book of his own poetry, Days Like Prose, in spring 1997, and it was named a “Notable Book From 1997” by the National Book Critics Circle. He is a regular contributor of book reviews for “The New Yorker” magazine, serves as North American editor for the forthcoming Who’s Who in 20th Century World Poetry, and is working on a novel and a new book of poems. Parker and his wife, painter Felicia van Bork, live in Davidson with their five-year-old son, Eli.

Opponents of FLAG’s sponsorship of the event made it pointedly clear that they did not oppose the Fashion Show itself, only FLAG’s association with it. If the Fashion Show is not serving and benefiting lesbian and gay students at Davidson, they asked, then why are the Friends of Lesbians and Gays the ones putting it on? Some gay and lesbian students present said that the event was alienating to them as homosexuals, for it seemed to be founded on cultural stereotypes of homosexuals as “fashion-obsessed,” “freakish,” “oversexed,” and “outrageous.” The contention was that if FLAG’s sponsorship of the Fashion Show alienates homosexual and bisexual students from the very organization intended to support them, it should not occur.

Some feel that FLAG’s decision to cease sponsorship of the annual Fashion Show marks a turning point in the organization’s focus and philosophy. FLAG’s association with the Fashion Show was in keeping with the group’s goals of advocacy and visibility for homosexual concerns. In discontinuing this association, FLAG has shifted its focus, now seeking to provide a welcoming atmosphere, on a much smaller scale than the Fashion Show, in which gay and lesbian students feel supported and at ease. Education and advocacy still continue to be pillars of the group’s agenda, with future projects including a screening of the film “The Celluloid Closet” and events bringing prominent speakers to campus. Without the Fashion Show as its number one event, said FLAG President Alice Owens ’00, FLAG will be able to devote more energy, time, and resources to a wider variety of opportunities for discussion of homosexuality’s place at Davidson. In March, FLAG will sponsor a somewhat revised version of the Sexuality Forum, in which the anonymous authors of the November Libertas sexuality articles will speak and discuss their experiences. The next FLAG meeting is Thursday, January 21st at 9 in the Conference Room of the Union. The organization invites anyone who is interested to attend.