THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999 __3

Federal Circuit Court Judges will make rare local visit

By COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Davidson students and the public will have a rare chance to view the proceedings of a federal court on Friday, September 24, when three Davidson alumni serving on the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court will empanel at their alma mater.

The Fourth Circuit Court is headquartered in Richmond and hears the vast majority of its cases there. But it occasionally meets in Baltimore and at law schools throughout its five-state jurisdiction. The panel at Davidson, an undergraduate liberal arts college, represents a highly unusual situation.

Judge Samuel J. Ervin III, a 1948 Davidson graduate, explained that he and the other three alumni judges on the court (William B. Traxler Jr. ’70, William W. Wilkins Jr. ’64, and J. Dickson Phillips Jr. ’43) have hoped for several years to meet at Davidson. They finally found the opportunity to do so when a student representative of the college’s Pre-Law Society, Tad Bevan, approached them about it last spring on behalf of that group.

The public is invited to attend the proceedings, which will run from 10 a.m. to noon in the Gallery Room of Chambers Building. The judges will also answer questions from the public from 2-3 p.m. Judge Phillips, who serves as the only senior judge on the Fourth Circuit Court, will not attend, but judges Ervin, Traxler, and Wilkins will hear two cases during that time. During each case, lawyers for the plaintiffs and lawyers for the defense will have 20 minutes each to present their cases, and judges may ask questions of them. A written brief explaining each case will be available for members of the audience, but the two specific cases that will be heard have not yet been determined.

Following the presentations, the judges will retire to chambers to render a verdict, which will not be formally written and announced until a later date.

There are 11 U.S. Circuit Courts nationwide, whose judges are appointed by the President and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. Circuit Courts hear appeals from district courts in their areas, as well as some appeals from administrative agencies. The Fourth Circuit Court comprises a total of 13 active judges and one senior judge. Most cases are heard by panels of three judges, and only very few are heard by all 13 judges meeting “en banc.”

Davidson alumni hold a disproportionately large number of seats on both federal and state courts. In addition to the four judges on the Fourth Circuit Court, six Davidson alumni sit on other Circuit Courts, and 23 additional alumni are state judges. Slightly more than 10 percent of Davidson’s 16,000 alumni are employed in the legal profession.

Exxon Award

You are invited to nominate a student or students for the Goodwin-Exxon Award. The Goodwin-Exxon Award is presented annually to a sophomore, junior, and senior student.

The criteria for selection include students who exemplify:

- the highest standards of character
- good sportsmanship
- friendliness
- consideration for the less fortunate

Present or past students who have been recipients include Allen Lee, Nureya Namaz, Christina Biedermann, Joy Sparks, Andrew Holbrook, Brian Campbell, John Cowan, Heather Perry, Yu-Jay Harris, David Lindsay, Eric Rosenbach, Robin Schroeder, and Lorie Logan.

Nominations are made by the students, faculty, and staff, and the recipients are honored at the Fall Convocation. Each recipient receives a $500 grant that they contribute to the costs of their education and will be given an additional $100 to contribute to the worthy charity of their choice.

Please make a minute to nominate students who you think are worthy of consideration for this distinctive award. Please pick up a nomination form in the Dean of Students Office. DEADLINE: Friday, October 1.

Put the money you save on this account into CDs.