10. THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mary Perrin ANDERSON
Staff Writer & Fortune Teller Extraordinaire

Aries (March 21-April 19)
Aries is indecisive this month. Which one do you want? Make your choice before the planets do it for you.
Remember, Aries, cream cheese on the 2nd, styling products, and melted chocolate spell success with the opposite sex.

Taurus (April 20-May 19)
Even-tempered Taurus doesn’t want for affection this month! Whatever it is, the Big Bad Bull is doing, keep it up!
Love and Success are both on the horizon. Wear denim on the 5th and boxer briefs whenever possible.

Gemini (May 20-June 20)
Attractive Geminis find themselves the object of much affection from the opposite sex. The stars and planets promise diamonds, horses,
and negotiable securities. Take nothing for granted, but remember to comfort yourself with dark poetry and frequent road trips.

Cancer (June 21-July 21)
Congratulations on Luck and Acceptance, Cancer! Your star is on the rise and even El Niño looks favorably on your
planetary alignment. Intellect and good sense are your friends. Reward yourself with a trip to the drive-thru.

Leo (July 22-August 22)
Lucky Leo has pleased the stars and the universe with kindness and sincerity. Your month will be filled with hot
love days, minimal homework, and a fuzzy lap dog.

Virgo (August 23-September 21)
What Virgo wants, Virgo gets! Your clever banter and sensitive wit keep friends and neighbors laughing. Watch out for strays
on the 2nd and reward yourself with a potted plant. You deserve it!

Libra (September 22-October 22)
Once again Libra has tipped the scales and the stars and planets are out of whack. Too much Mexican food
leaves your stomach in knots but this is of little importance because your folks just bought you a new car!
Happy Easter, Libra. Watch out for fruit that isn’t really fruit.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)
Scorpio has been feeling strange lately. Don’t fret, little pet, it's going to be OK. Remember to roll over, sit,
and pant on command.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 20)
Congratulations on work well done, Sagittarius! Success and intense financial benefits are imminent. Your sound advice helps a friend who
needs you. Beware of stray electrical currents.

Capricorn (December 21-January 19)
askdjfeioawjfsdlkjfialdf;Ikasjdf. So there.

Aquarius (January 20-February 17)
Get back in the water Aquarius! Dry land is not your friend this month so warm the Jacuzzi back up.
Phone conversations lead nowhere but a gentle Libra will help you find your way.

Pisces (February 18-March 20)
Fun-loving and mischievous Pisces needs to watch her back. Remember that you don’t know just what is in that cup
and beware of frisbees that can come out of nowhere.

ARTS & LIVING

P-Funk All-Stars nostalgia
By Travis MARTZ
Staff Writer

I like to think of myself as a prep school hippie. Although I don’t appear crunchy, I sometimes have a
tendency during the summer to let my hair go days without a wash, while I sport dirty garments and allow
my face to go unshaven. Though this may not seem very “hippie-like,” it’s the closest I come, and it makes
me feel like one, so back off.

I consider myself extremely lucky to have seen the Grateful Dead, live in concert, three times before Jerry Garcia’s death,
and I have traveled up and down the entire East Coast following a band that calls themselves Phish. While drifting
aimlessly through the bustling parking lots of a venue before and after a Phish or Dead show, I have met
some pretty eclectic characters. I have conversed with the so-called “real” hippies, men with beards to their bellies, hair so
dirty it sticks together, random body piercings, and colorful self-made clothing. I have seen women with all the same features
except that the beards to their bellies are replaced with hairy armpits. Though this may seem unappealing, these hippies make
some of the best food on tour out of the back of their Volkswagens, while they sell everything from bottled
water to goo balls.

There is nothing I enjoy more than submerging myself in this hippie culture for a few weeks at a time.
It temporarily removes me from my fast-paced “preppy” lifestyle and replaces it with a more relaxed and free-spirited state of
being. Up until the fall of ‘97, I thought that the Grateful Dead shows...I attended in '94 and '95 and
would stand nonpareil when comparing cultural diversity among fans. It was on a warm September night in Philadelphia in 1997
that I was proven wrong. My friends and I took the train down to Center City Philly, not knowing what
to expect because we were going to our first George Clinton show. From the first minute we walked in the
door of the Electric Factory, it was obvious that the mother ship had landed. I saw characters that I had
never seen before in my life. Not only were the hippies representing, but the prep school crowd was there also.
The best of both worlds. Even better, men and women my parents’ age came to bring out the funk. Bikers
found a new place besides Bike Week in Daytona to fashion their leather together. The homeboys displayed vibrant apparel George
Clinton style. They wore large robes streaked with color, and their hair was brightened with color highlights. Some elected to
wear their space outfits while others wore cowboy boots. It was by far the most eclectic crowd I have ever
seen at a performance before, and I am well experienced. Observing the crowd was entertainment enough, but then the lights
went dark. Lights slowly illuminated parts of the stage as members of the P-Funk All Stars came on one by
one. Not only was the crowd modeling all fashions, but the band also did the same. The guitarist donned the
army look, wearing all camouflage. And of course, Bootsy Collins wore nothing but a large diaper. After six or seven
band members took the stage, the original dawg made his grand entrance. As he came around the corner, the crowd
started to go even crazier. There he was, center stage looking as if from another planet, a funk legend. In
addition to the energy coming from the crazy costumes, George Clinton and the P-Funk All-Stars transmitted energy through their music.
Their jams were funky and spirited. Every song had fans literally jumping in the air. The band would get the
crowd to jump together and simultaneously wave their hands above their heads. I quickly realized crowd involvement is a key
component to a George Clinton show. And after nearly three hours of non-stop action, the band made their way off
the stage. I have been to over 100 live shows, and without a doubt, the George Clinton show was the
most unique out of all of them. The constant interaction between the band and their diverse fans makes one feel
as if they are part of the show. More importantly, George Clinton and his mother ship are going to invade
Davidson on April 18th. This funk mayhem is going to rock our very own Baker Sports Complex. An eclectic event
of this nature may only happen once at tiny Davidson, and are you going to let it pass? Are you
going to skip seeing a Funk icon at your own school because you have “stuff” to do? You will only
be selling yourself short, for when the mother ship lands for a few hours on April 18th, Davidson won’t be
the same. Many good tickets are still on sale at the Union box office. Get them before the public does,
because they will!
