__THE DAVIDSONIAN COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS__

J. Alfred Broaddus, Jr., president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, will deliver Davidson College’s annual Cornelson Lecture on
Wednesday, April 14th. Broaddus will speak about “The European Monetary Union (EMU) and the Role of the National Central Banks
in the Eurosystem,” beginning at 8 p.m. in the Gallery Room of Chambers Building. The talk is free and open
to the public. Call 982-2398 for information.

Peter Hess, professor of economics at Davidson, said Broaddus will discuss whether European national banks under the new monetary system
will operate like the Federal Reserve Bank in the United States. In short, does America’s Federal Reserve System serve as
a model for the EMU? Hess explained that the 11 European nations currently in the EMU are adopting the “Euro”
as their single currency and have agreed to subordinate the authority of their national central banks to a common decision-making
body, the European Central Bank. The EMU parallels the U.S. Federal Reserve System in which 12 Federal Reserve Banks, representing
districts of the nation, monitor regional economic conditions and then advise the Board of Governors on national monetary policy.

“The member nations of the EMU will realize significant benefits from the use of a single currency, primarily from reducing
the transactions costs in trade and investment,” said Hess. “Their national governments, however, must better coordinate their fiscal policies, with
a loss of some economic autonomy. Whether the EMU is a forerunner of the future is still an open question.”

Broaddus is president of one of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks in the Federal Reserve System. Chief among the system’s
responsibilities is setting the nation’s monetary policy, through which it influences interest rates and the exchange value of the U.S.
dollar. The 12 Federal Reserve Bank presidents meet with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, and the members
of the Board of Governors every six weeks to review economic conditions and determine the monetary policy.

Broaddus received a bachelor’s degree at Washington and Lee and a Ph.D. from Indiana University. He joined the Federal Reserve
System’s Payments System Policy Advisory Committee and Information Technology Oversight Committee.

Davidson’s annual Cornelson Lecture is a component of the Cornelson Endowment, which recognizes and honors six members of the Cornelson
family, spanning four generations, who have studied at Davidson. In addition to the annual lecture, the endowment supports the college’s
senior session in economics, a capstone experience for senior economics majors.

3000+ college catalogues

The Library has subscribed to CollegeSource Online. This Web-based reference tool provides access to the college catalogs of nearly 3000
U.S. colleges and universities, as well as 700 international schools. The Library is paying for a campus-wide site license, so
that faculty, students, and staff can use the service from their offices, dorm rooms, and campus labs. CollegeSource may be
searched by words within the school name. One also may search by selected criteria such as state, major, or enrollment.

Charles Wilson awards for non-fiction prose

Emily E. Setina ’99 won 1st prize for non-fiction prose. Mary T. Allison ’99 and Jennifer R. Nolan ’99 won
awards in the personal essay category. Both William B. Bradshaw ’99 and Cintra Pollack’99 received honorable mentions

Women’s Month: the culminating event

Continued from page 1

Ingram led the group to the next stop outside of the President’s House. She spoke about depression, how it plagues
many people, but few people truly recognize it for what it is - a disease. Ingram said, “Mental illness is
too often dismissed in our culture: if you get the flu and have to stay in bed, people recognize your
illness and make allowances. But if you suffer from depression and just can’t get out of bed, people say, ‘snap
out of it. Stop feeling sorry for yourself. Count your many blessings.’” She emphasized the need to “light the darkness
of depression.” Ingram ended her speech by telling the group to “own your darkness. Claim it for your own, then
shine an illuminating beam of hope and enlightenment into it. And remember to lighten up!”

Matt Billings ’02, the third and final speaker, led the crowd to a tree near Chambers. He spoke about homophobia,
both here at Davidson, and across the nation. Billings improvised his speech, talking about the sexuality forum from the previous
night. He addressed the need for tolerance from people who are different from the stereotypical white male student. He explained,
“Homosexuals are just like everyone else. But at the same time, they possess unique talents and gifts that we, as
a community, need to celebrate.” Billings ended his speech by quoting Victor Hugo, encouraging students to accept new ideas as
a means of change. After Billings placed his stake in the ground, the group returned to the Gender Resource Center
for refreshments and casual discussion. Although this is the first year of the closing vigil, Ingram felt it was a
great success. “It is a way of marking the end of the celebration, marking the empowerment of the entire month.
It is a way to bring people together and make statements across the campus.”

You may access CollegeSource Online from the Library Home Page under “Reference Sources” (consider ‘bookmarking’ the Library Home Page) or
you may go directly to the site: http://www.collegesource.org. Have a question? Dial xCHAL (2425).

CURRENT STUDENT SCHOLARSHIP COMPETITION
SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 1999
10:30 (TENTATIVE), HODSON HALL

On April 24 the music department will hold a scholarship competition for current first-year students, sophomores, and juniors. While most
of the scholarships will be in the form of merit awards for reduced or cost-free private study, some awards will,
in addition, be merit awards for tuition reduction. The competition is open to all students, regardless of current or prior
study in applied music.

*Retraction: In the March 30th issue of The Davidsonian, an article discussing the selection and composition of the incoming class
of 2003 possessed inaccuracies and errors that the Editors were unaware of at the time of its publication. The Editorial
staff would like to apologize to the readers, especially the Admissions office, for this article. This coming week’s Davidsonian will
provide the real truths about the incoming class of 2003.

The auditions will be spaced every twelve minutes, so the music should not exceed ten minutes in length. The competition
will be adjudicated by outside judges. Students who will be abroad the entire year will not be eligible. Students who
will be away for one semester will receive scholarships on a pro-rated basis. Students wishing to sign up for the
competition must sign up with Mrs. Brickels in the music office.

Broaddus is a native of Richmond who...
