14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

For the overwhelming majority of athletes at Davidson College, graduation marks the end of the line. Their Senior Day marks
the final time these gifted men and women will don a uniform and take to their respective fields, courts, courses,
pool lanes, and diamonds.

But for a very lucky few, the dream continues into the arena of professional athletics. That exclusive and celebrated list
from the Class of 1998 includes the likes of Billy Armstrong and Mark Donnelly—Wildcat basketball greats who have taken their
games to Belgium and Italy, respectively. And that list includes another name, the name of Brad Preston.

Unlike Armstrong and Donnelly, Preston was not a recruited athlete out of high school. He never received a single scholarship
dollar from the College. But he is today earning a full-time living as a New Jersey Devil. Actually, not as
a New Jersey Devil, but as the New Jersey Devil. After entertaining thousands of Davidson football and basketball fans as
the Wildcat mascot, Preston now earns his dollars skating around the rink of Continental Airlines Arena inside the jocular caricature
of the New Jersey Devils’ mascot.

Preston was recruited by Jeanette Scire’s cheerleading squad at Davidson in the fall of his freshman year. “In the back
of my head when I was a little kid at games,” recalls the popular Davidson alum, “I always thought it
would seem like fun. The possibility of being the mascot here excited me.” Preston took over as the full-time mascot
for football and men’s and women’s basketball after the fall of his freshman year. Immediately, he experienced the thrill of
Division I athletics. “The first basketball game I ever did here sticks out a lot in my memory, it was
against Wake Forest at Belk Arena.” In that game, Preston saw future NBA star Tim Duncan compete in front of
nearly 6000 Wildcat fans.

Other high points of his career in Davidson athletics included a trip to Hamilton, Bermuda to cheer on the 1994
Wildcat football squad as they toppled Sewanee 28-14, and a trip to the NCAA Tournament with the 1997-98 men’s basketball
team. Head men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop recalled with a chuckle, “Brad was such an integral part of our team
that year...he was our sixth man out on the floor.” In a more serious tone, the coach continued, “The guys
really did respect Brad and the job he did each and every night.”

Another incident, Preston recalls with mixed feelings. “I can’t really say I’m proud of this one,” he says with an
embarrassed laugh. He goes on to tell the story of “the brawl” against the UNC-Charlotte 49ers' mascot. Though the 49er
was a casual friendly acquaintance of Brad’s, the two engaged in an epic scuffle during one of the games for
the “Hornet’s Nest Trophy.” “It was a UNC-C time-out during the second half, and he came out with a little
horse head on a stick and started riding it around,” recalled Brad. “I ran up behind him and pulled the
horse away from him, and just kind of held it at arm’s length to taunt him. I figured I'd hold
on to it until the end of the time-out. I still thought we were joking around and the next thing
I knew he hit me, and knocked my mascot head sideways.

“I couldn’t see anything, it was dark in there. And I'll be honest, I got nervous,” Brad admitted. “I was
out on the floor, couldn’t see, and their pep band was closed in around me. He was pushing me and
it felt physical, it felt as if he wasn’t kidding. So, I hit him once just to kind of get
him off of me, and he backed off.”A sociology major, Brad kept active outside the sphere of athletics, too, as
a the ‘Cats victory over Sewanee in Bermuda.

Looking for Summer Employment—Best Foods is looking for a reliable, hard-working person to run relief routes for distributors in the
Charlotte Lake Norman area this summer. Compensation package including training approximately $4,000 for 12 weeks of work. Info: 663-2665. Call
PETE for more.

After his freshman year, Preston attended a summer mascot camp with Davidson’s cheerleading squad. There he met mascots from schools
such as Georgetown, Virginia Tech, and the University of North Carolina, and began to realize that he could keep up
with the “big time” mascots. “You start to realize that the world is a lot smaller than you think, and
just because I’m at a small school doesn’t mean that [big time mascots] have anything that I don’t have.”

Preston’s career, though illustrious, was not without some embarrassing moments. He recalls the foremost of them from his senior year,
“I was doing the Domino’s pizza giveaway during a time-out. I was going from section to section and holding the
pizza out to tease them, and then pulling it back. I held it out at one section, and then quickly
pulled it back. As I turned to run toward the next section, the box felt lighter. I didn’t get to
see it, but the people who saw it said the pizza slid out and flipped in the air end-over-end, staying
intact, until it landed on the stairs. Some freshmen came and actually asked me for the pizza, I think they
ate it. The cheerleaders gave me a hard time for, well, about two months.”

“It was for real, the police came over and broke it up. I thought I was going to get arrested.
I really did worry about that afterwards, I knew that I had let down Jeanette and I shouldn’t have gotten
into that kind of thing.” But once tempers cooled, all sides couldn’t help but laugh at the memory of the
historic heavyweight bout between the Wildcat and the 49er.

Brad’s career survived the ensuing controversy after the brawl, and he finished his Davidson career in a Wildcat uniform before
going on to his new job as the New Jersey Devil. “It’s not something I want to do for my
whole life. I hear that people burn out, but I think people burn out from anything if they’re not having
fun. I’m thrilled to have the job with the Devils, and I'd love to do it as long as I
can.”

His professional career has come with some exciting perks, among them meeting New Jersey Nets star Jason Williams. But far
more meaningful to Brad is his ability to continue in the tradition of service instilled in him at Davidson. “I
love doing the hospital visits,” says Brad with a smile. “Four of the players from the Devils and I go
to visit sick children. It’s such a fulfilling part of the job, it’s really why you do the job.”

“Brad not only portrayed Mr. Cat physically... he helped develop a Wildcat personality all its own. I know it is
going to be difficult to fill his shoes or should I say ‘Paws’ but surely there is someone on campus
that would really like the opportunity to bring Mr. Cat into the next century.” —Cheerleading Coach Jeanette Scire

Okay all of you avid frisbee players out there on Davidson’s vast campus. Here is what you have been waiting
for: the tournament to end all tournaments. Most of you may have never played in a tournament—but it will be
a blast. The answers to most, if not all, of your questions shall be appearing here in the Davidsonian each
week leading up to the tournament.

When: April 24, 9:00 am to the end of the tournament (hopefully before sundown)
What: A 4-on-4 frisbee tournament with five on each team (one substitute) on the IMAC fields
Why: Why not?
Who: Any Davidson student, faculty, staff, and alumni

You won’t have anything better to do anyway.
