THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

#1-ranked volleyball captures tournament, improves to 4-0

By Kerry SUGRUE
Staff Writer

When the Southern Conference coaches convened to vote on pre-season standings, Davidson’s Wildcats edged out Chattanooga, landing the top spot in the SoCon. Judging by the way they’ve been playing this past week, Coach Marston’s 'Cats seem rather intent on staying there.

Davidson opened their season last Wednesday at UNC-Charlotte, where they rolled past the 49ers 15-6, 15-7, 10-15, 16-14. Senior Gina Lawrence paced the 'Cats’ attack, notching a team-high 17 blocks and three kills. Numerous 'Cats exhibited stellar performances, including All-SoCon outside hitter Mara Mordini. Mordini, who notched a career-high 29 digs when the 'Cats hosted UNC-C in '98, sparked the 'Cats last Wednesday with a stirring on-the-court intensity. Another bright spot for the 'Cats on the night was the play of freshmen Kaitlyn Martin, out of Kalamazoo, Michigan, and Rebecca Tiechgraeber, from New Orleans.

Head Coach Lisa Marston was extremely pleased with the way her squad looked against UNC-C. “It was a great game for us, a great way to pace the season. We were very composed, and we looked very experienced. It didn’t look like it was our first match. We came in and looked calm and loose and played very aggressively,” she said.

A key to Wednesday's victory was the unyielding play of the Wildcat defense. “We had great defense—probably the best I’ve seen in four years,” Coach Marston added.

The great start gave Coach Marston high hopes for the season—"We’re definitely taking it up a notch from last year. Our goals are to improve on last year’s record, which will be difficult, and to win the Southern Conference regular season and tournament. Hopefully, this game has shown what we can do.”

As if anyone needed some more convincing, the 'Cats maintained the intensity throughout the weekend, easily cruising past UNC-Wilmington, Elon, and North Carolina A&T, capturing the Wildcat Classic Tournament.

The 'Cats opened the tournament last Friday night against UNC-Wilmington. It took less than an hour for the 'Cats to disarm the Lady Seahawks, sweeping the match 15-0, 15-9, 15-2. Mordini and Lawrence were an offensive force to reckon with, tallying nine kills apiece. Sophomores Erica Schwartz (who had 25 assists on the night) and Katie Middendorf (6-for-7 hitting) each contributed strong performances as the 'Cats improved their season record to 2-0.

Saturday morning pitted the Wildcats against Elon College. Sophomores Schwartz and Jennifer Ortega (who led the game with 12 kills) keyed the 'Cats 15-6, 15-5, 15-9 victory. Mordini added nine digs and fellow junior Brooke Bentley racked up eight kills.

Later on that night, the 'Cats capped off their stellar tournament performance with another win over North Carolina A&T. The offense was on fire against the Aggies, with 3 players in double-digits for kills. Lawrence, Mordini, and Bentley came up with 13, 12, and 11, respectively. Senior Ginny Quis was unstoppable, with an incredible 51 kills and 6 digs.

Coach Marston displayed her team’s impressive depth, utilizing all 15 players in the weekend’s action. “We were able to see everyone on the roster play,” noted the reigning SoCon Coach of the Year. “The people off the bench responded great.” Mordini echoed her coach’s sentiments, adding “It was wonderful to see that we are a team that really is 15 deep. Whenever anyone went into the game, they did their job.”With the clean sweep of the tournament, the 'Cats posted some impressive statistics. Mordini finished the weekend with 24 kills, 25 digs, and 5 aces; Lawrence had 22 kills, 24 digs, and 5 blocks; and Bentley had 23 kills, 17 digs, and 6 aces. The three earned recognition on the All-Tournament team. Davidson forges into Southern Conference competition on September 17, when they host Chattanooga.

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SURVEY

Last week we asked you to predict how many games the Wildcat football squad would win this season. The student body, community, and parents who read our paper responded in unanimity:
* 10-11 (0%)
* 7-9 (0%)
* 3-4 (0%)
* 5-6 (100%)
* 0-3 (0%)

Total votes cast: 1 (Thanks, Nick.)
Margin of error: +/-100%

Due to the overwhelming popularity of our survey idea, look for another question in next week’s paper.

Alex Rogers (#7) and Jennie Gold apply the pressure on Catawba’s defense (above).

Field hockey beats Catawba 3-0 for season-opening win
By SHELLEY CONROY
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the temperature reached into the high 80s all afternoon. But the weather wasn’t the only thing around campus that was sizzling. The 'Cats field hockey squad was also on fire, winning their season opener with a scorching 3-0 victory over Catawba College of Salisbury.

"I'm really pleased with the outcome of our first game of the season,” commented Coach Jen Halliday, off to a winning start in her third season as the Wildcats’ head coach. Junior Ashley Hart added, “We played hard right up until the end today, with serious intensity the whole time.”

With the victory, the 'Cats passed a crucial early-season test against local rival Catawba College, who they will meet again in the Deep South Tournament in late October. The game remained scoreless for more than 30 minutes, but Davidson exhibited dominating ball control throughout the entire first half. With 3:56 left in the half, freshman Jessica Barton was awarded a penalty shot after a Catawba defender deflected a Wildcat shot-on-goal with her bare hand. Barton stepped up and scored the first goal of the season, giving the Wildcats the lead by one at the close of the first half.

Twelve minutes and 36 seconds into the second half, junior midfielder Jennie Gold scored a field goal with an assist from freshman Alex Rogers. Catawba remained scoreless. “Catawba can turn into a pretty physical team, especially when they get down like they were,” noted Halliday.

The mid-afternoon breeze that picked up in the game’s waning minutes had a bit of a cooling effect on the 'Cats defensive intensity. Though the Indians stepped up their offensive attack, the Wildcats’ defenders held their ground, and senior goalkeeper Nancy Livingston tended the net to perfection, accruing her second career shut-out. With 8:51 remaining in the game, junior Lisa Holthaus scored the Wildcats’ third and final goal of their season opener.

Halliday noted, “Our passing was the key to our win today. The girls found and really used the open person.” “We really worked well as a team today,” agreed Gold. “It seemed that we really came together through our three weeks of pre-season. And we had lots of fun!”

The field hockey team took on St. Louis at home today at 3:00 and they will travel to Radford on Thursday.

Jessica Barton scores the 'Cats first goal of the season (right).