P O E D = 7 8 S A » Davidson 2, Clemson 0

By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

In the closing minutes of Wednesday night’s season-opener between Clemson University and Davidson College, barely a whisper was heard from
the nearly 2,000 fans gathered. All inclinations suggested the game should have been an easy victory for the Tigers. After
all, Clemson had a higher rating in the nation (4th) than Davidson had in the Southern Conference (5th). The ‘Cats
were coming off a 5-16 season, while the Tigers breezed through '98 with a 21-2 record. Furthermore, only once before
in school history had Clemson fallen in a season-opener on their home turf.

But that’s why they play the games.

Davidson upset the fourth-ranked Tigers in a nearly unprecedented defeat for the Clemson men’s soccer program. It may appear that
the 2-0 stunner was a classic David(son) versus Goliath miracle; however, there was neither luck nor divine intervention involved. The
‘Cats simply outshot, outhustled, and outclassed Clemson’s Tigers.

Davidson drew first blood in the closing seconds of the first half: Chris Murray threw the ball in to Dane
Erickson. Fully aware of the waning clock, Erickson threatened to send a long ball into the box, but instead chose
to play the ball down the left side to forward Dan Ford. Ford lost his defender near the top of
the box and took the ball to the end-line before hitting a low and hard near-post cross. The defense shifted
toward the near-post where Chris Norbert was closing in for the finish. Instead, Norbert let the ball pass through to
a striding Lawrence Cann near the far-post, who sent the ball into the back of the net. Describing the play,
Cann recalled, “It was easy...I just turned my hips to the right side and put it in.”

Cann, a senior this year and a strong leader on the field, is a right fullback who plays tough physical
defense but also has the ability to go forward and create on offense. Nevertheless, it is a rare thing for
a defender to have that kind of opportunity. He said, “As a defender, you don’t get too many chances like
that, so when you do, you got to put ‘em away.”

Davidson notched their second goal in the 54th minute when sophomore Chris Norbert headed in a beautiful free kick from
fellow sophomore Paul Watson. Consistent all night in free kicks and corners, Watson floated one to the back post from
about 25 yards out. Norbert showed composure beyond his years on the finish, sending the ball into the open back
post just beyond the reach of Clemson's diving keeper.

After establishing the commanding lead, Davidson never let up and never faltered under the pressure. When asked about the team’s
mentality after securing the lead, Head Coach Charlie Slagle commented, “We couldn’t change what got us there. We didn’t want
to just hold a lead but continue going forward, playing hard, and creating chances.”

Despite leading in almost every vital statistic (including fouls 25-11), Davidson’s defense still had work to do. Junior David Buehler,
playing at sweeper for the first time this season, showed leadership and composure as he anchored the shutout defense. However,
the real story of Davidson’s stalwart defense was the standout play of goalkeeper Soren Johnson, a 6'3” freshman from Blowing
Rock, North Carolina. Tallying his first shutout in his first regular season game, Johnson set a standard for excellence. Late
in the first half, with the game knotted 0-0, Clemson created...its most threatening chance of the game. On a fast
counterattack, a Tiger midfielder sent the ball through to a streaking forward. “He got the ball on his foot 12
yards out and right in front,” described Johnson. “I came out hard to close the angle and made a reaction
save with my left foot.” Johnson joked, “That moron tried to go near post on me — you can't go
near post on me!” Clearly, this was a turning point in the game. After this close call late in the
half, Davidson rebounded to score their first goal. Senior defender and goal scorer, Lawrence Cann, commented that the beauty of
the game was “not just that we won, but the way we won.” Davidson built their strong performance around an
excellent work ethic, hard tackling, and organization. “We knew that if we won every 50/50 ball the game would come
to us, and it did,” said Cann. However, it was more than desire that earned Davidson the victory. In almost
every facet of the game, the ‘Cats dominated. They controlled the ball when necessary and attacked at speed when the
opportunities presented themselves. Perhaps most importantly of all, somehow amidst the exuberance of the upset, the ‘Cats kept level heads
in preparation for Saturday’s competition against the #10-rated University of South Carolina.

By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

Already being touted as “giant killers,” Davidson upset the South Carolina Gamecocks in Columbia, South Carolina late Saturday night. Davidson
brought down its second top ten team in four days and also notched its first victory on USC turf in
school history. Once again, Davidson has shocked the country and proven to even the greatest skeptics that perhaps indeed they
are the real thing. Similar to the victory over Clemson, Davidson earned its victory leading the stats in possession, shots,
and corner kicks. Having fought long and hard for 113 minutes, Davidson clinched the victory in the second sudden death
overtime as senior Andrew Holbrook finished a bouncing ball from six yards out. Capturing victory through his physical play and
determination in the box, Holbrook’s game-winning goal was a fitting end to the hard-fought and physical contest. Davidson and South
Carolina scrapped all game, combining for 42 fouls and two yellow cards. In contrast to the fast pace and constant
attack in Wednesday night's contest, Saturday night was primarily a defensive battle. Once again, David Buehler made big game-saving plays
in the back and anchored the Davidson defense, which limited the Gamecocks to only three threatening shots on frame. “I
knew they (South Carolina) were going to have to do something pretty special to score and they never really showed
that ability,” said junior Dane Erickson. “I felt that we were going to have to find a way to score
or we were going to play to a scoreless tie.” Though from the stands South Carolina appeared quite capable of
winning, Erickson’s confidence represents what he feels is special about this year’s team. “We are finally starting to put together
something that we always knew we had in us.” Most importantly, the team’s confidence is not unfounded. Thanks to their
as yet unparalleled spirit, unity, and work ethic, Davidson defeated two powerful and high-ranked teams this week. Even more, they
dominated on the scoreboard and have shown themselves, as well as their supporters, that maybe they shouldn’t be seen as
“giant killers” ...but as giants themselves.

Vin Judy
