THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidsonian Archives

Dependable.

As an athlete. As a student. And as a friend.

When Jess Montrella scored her thousandth career point last Monday against UNC-Greensboro, her teammates, friends, coaches, and fans took a moment to appreciate the contributions that this 6’2” senior from Altoona, Pennsylvania has made to the Davidson College community, both on and off the court.

On the hardwood, Montrella’s consistency and versatility have contributed to the development of Davidson’s fledgling women’s basketball program. She came to Davidson along with Jamie and Kerry Brown as part of a highly-touted class of young athletes from the Keystone State.

Montrella was an immediate contributor. Starting 22 of 26 games her freshman year, Jess was the team’s third-leading scorer with an average of 10.5 points per game, including a season-high 24 against conference-rival Georgia Southern. After being plagued by mono during her sophomore campaign, Montrella bounced back in her junior season, earning second-team all-conference honors.

As for her final run? “Jess Montrella is having an excellent senior year. She’s having the type of senior year that you hope your seniors have,” beams Coach Filar. “She’s playing with a lot of confidence and she’s in great shape physically. Jess has been as consistent if not more consistent than anyone all season.”

Her friend and teammate, Jamie Brown, agrees. “She's got such incredible post moves, she rebounds very well, she hits her foul shots. She’s a very, very consistent player all around.”

“All three of this year’s seniors are such great role models,” praises freshman Leah Uhernik, also from Pennsylvania. “Jess Montrella is exactly the kind of player I want to be like. She’s not only a shooter, she’s not only a rebounder. She does everything, every day, both on the game floor and in practice.”

Montrella has been a key component of this Class of ’99 that has nurtured a fledgling young program into a consistent winner. In the two seasons before Montrella and the Brown twins joined the squad, Filar’s Wildcats lost 21 consecutive conference games. In the three and a half seasons since then, Davidson boasts a respectable 34-25 conference mark. Davidson’s Class of 1999 is the only such in the conference to have posted four winning seasons in their collegiate careers.

Though she ranks among the team’s all-time best in points, three-point shooting, free-throw shooting, and blocked shots, Montrella is also known and loved for her demeanor and character off the court.

Sophomore JoAnne Hassel praises, “Off the court, she’s one of the best leaders I’ve ever known. She always steps up, both on and off the court.”

Montrella received the game ball and a plaque last Monday in honor of her 1,000th career point.

Photo courtesy of Jamie Brown

“Jess is such a great friend all around, besides being a great teammate,” says Jamie Brown. “I’ve been around her for the past four years, and I can’t imagine my sister and I having a better friend than Jess has been. She’s meant so much to us.”

Reflecting on her time at Davidson, Montrella says, “The friendships that I’ve made stand out in my memory. When I think about leaving here, I get really emotional because I think about leaving my teammates and the coaching staff that I’ve become so very fond of.

“The team atmosphere is something I don’t think I'll ever experience again. You never get to experience the closeness of a team that I’ve experienced here. That will be the one thing that I'll look back on and appreciate the most.”

After graduating in May, Montrella is planning a career in clinical psychology. She is considering an opportunity to serve for a year as a Crisis Hotline operator at a Boston Hospital. “I’ve enjoyed every course in psychology that I’ve taken at Davidson. I feel that that’s my calling.”

Those who know her best agree. “She loves helping people,” says Jamie Brown. “She’s talked to us before about how much she really wants to help kids and people that are really in trouble. She’s a great listener, a great friend. I think that’s the perfect field for her to go into.”

But before she focuses on plans after Davidson, Montrella wants to deliver a Southern Conference Championship to all the supporters of Davidson athletics. Among those supporters is Jess’s family, who treks down from Pennsylvania to follow the team. “It means a lot to me that they drive eight hours almost every weekend to watch us play. I just want to end this season on a good note for my family and my teammates and all the people that support us.”

Though Jess Montrella has an unrelenting passion to win basketball games, her lasting memories will be derived every bit as much from the times she enjoys with her teammates off the court. “We’ve been so close in these four years, we spend almost one hundred percent of our time together. Their friendships have made my stay at Davidson very, very happy. We’ve had a whole lot of good times.”

by Mike Anderson