THE DAVIDSONIAN: Super-Duper Movie Rentals A Top Ten List

BY SETH DAVIS
ARTS & LIVING EDITOR

Here’s my best advice for movie rentals at the Game Room in the Union. I haven’t actually rented these movies, but I have seen all of them. Actually, that isn’t true either. I have, however, seen a movie related to the one movie on the list that I haven’t seen.

1. Hot Shots! - This movie is a great deal funnier than myself. It stars Charlie Sheen and that lady with the accent. Lloyd Bridges provides a classic performance. If I could, I would rent Hot Shots! Part Deux. But I can’t, and neither can you. Last time I checked, the Union doesn’t have it. So it goes.

2. The Hunt for Red October - One of the best dramas I have seen. Starring Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin, it is set on and underneath the high seas. I’m willing to bet many of you have seen it. For those who haven’t, you should. That’s all I have to say about that... Which brings me to my next pick.

3. Forrest Gump - I’m sorry. I had to say it. I couldn’t think of how to end the last section. Moving on, Forrest and his many adventures provide a great deal of entertainment. Hours of it. I laughed. I cried. Actually, that isn’t true.

4. Monty Python and the Holy Grail - This is a given. There isn’t a better opening scene in comedy. King Arthur and coconuts. Then there’s the African swallows. And the European swallows. And more than an hour of British humor.

5. The Breakfast Club - I felt compelled to pick this movie. Anthony Michael Hall, of Gnorm the Gnome and Trojan War fame, is one of the movie's stars. He gives a subtly moving performance along with co-star Molly Ringwald. The all-star cast is rounded out with family favorites Judd Nelson, Emilio Estevez, and that girl with the black hair. She doesn’t have an accent.

6. Rebel Without a Cause - I’ve only seen the end of this movie. But it has Natalie Wood in it. She was quite an actress. I’m a big fan. (For another one of her films, check out Splendor in the Grass. The Union doesn’t have it, but it’s worth seeing.) James Dean also stars in this movie. The final scenes are great. I’d bet the rest of the movie is great as well.

7. To Kill a Mockingbird - When I was nine years old, my mom read the book by Harper Lee to me. I was hooked on reading. The book and the movie are great. A young Gregory Peck stars as Atticus Finch, who, besides having an amazing name, is a defense lawyer. The case of Tom Robinson, a black man accused of rape by a white girl, comes to Atticus’ attention. I'll leave the rest to the movie.

8. Shine - I went, somewhat begrudgingly, to see this film in the theater. I should have been more enthusiastic. Don’t check out this movie for laughs, but if you want to see a story of triumph and tragedy meshed together, see this film. One of the best dramas available at the Union.

9. Crocodile Dundee - “That’s not a knife. This is a knife.”

10. The Making of Alien - I haven’t seen this documentary. But I have seen Alien. I liked it. It wasn’t great, but it was definitely worth seeing. The Union must have thought the same way. I’m glad they made The Making of Alien available for rental.

This is your Arts and Living editor Seth Davis, signing off. Maybe, once my page is done, I'll tramp down the stairs outside the Davidsonian office, take a little jaunt through the game room, and rent myself a movie or two. Or maybe not. This is, after all, Davidson College on a Monday night.

Tree of the Week: Japanese Flowering Apricot signals the coming of spring

By BRIAN CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

This week’s Tree of the Week is the Japanese flowering apricot (Prunus mume). These early-bloomers are blooming even earlier this year due to the surprisingly warm weather. Our campus has several beautiful Japanese flowering apricots that are already brilliant with white and pink flowers. Like many cultivated plants, this tree is native to China and Japan, where over 300 varieties have been developed. The flowering apricot is a relative of many other fruit trees,like the cherry and apple, and it indeed bears fruit. Flowers mature into small, cherry-like golden apricots that decorate the trees later in the spring. These glowing, golden fruit are eaten by a variety of wild animals even though they are extremely tart. In Japan, these apricots are preserved or used to make wine. The most distinctive feature of the Japanese flowering apricot is its winter blooming. The pastel petals spring open sporadically in a series of waves during winter and throughout early spring. What is surprising is that these waves of floral explosions seem to follow periods of extreme cold. The first set of flowers typically opens in mid to late January and is often frozen soon after. Sets of flowers continue to bloom and develop into fruit until the tree’s emerald green, oval-shaped leaves fill the branches in late spring or early summer.

Like these trees, all of us experience periods of cold, colorless dormancy. There are times of solitude and silence when we doubt the joy of spring will return. We become thick-barked and unmoving, watching others pass us as they follow their paths. Yet, it is these times which are often followed by our most brilliant displays of color and our most lasting growth. Even as cold weather returns, we continue to express the warmth and hope of the coming spring. Give thanks this week for the color and fragrance of the Japanese flowering apricot. Give thanks for the brilliant blooming that follows winter’s chill.

Interested In Coordinating a Program? Sign Up For An Interview This Week In The Dean of Student’s Office (Through Friday, January 29) Thursdays at 7:30 P.M. in the Union Home Room. ALL ARE WELCOME!

Fellow students,

During its existence at Davidson College, our chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes has attempted to provide an enjoyable environment supporting all of us in our personal walks with Christ. However, we have determined that changes will assist us in serving the campus’s spiritual needs. We hope to encourage greater student participation through skits, discussions, and songs, and are also excited about moving our meetings to the Union’s Home Room. Fellowship of Christian Athletes opens its doors to all students. We aren’t solely for athletes. Neither are we exclusively for those convinced of their spiritual beliefs. Fellowship of Christian Athletes relishes the opportunities to serve students with a variety of interests and different spiritual needs. We invite you to the first F.C.A. meeting of the semester on Thursday, January 28. In addition to food, fun, and fellowship, our meeting will include a guest speaker. We hope that you will join us in renewing our commitment to Davidson College.

Sincerely,
Davidson College F.C.A.

The Student Body

A Sober Social Event—Try It!
BY ANNE STANCIL
Student Health Advisor

In February the Union Board is sponsoring a campus-wide formal. As a member of Patterson Court, I have attended several formals. I know how they work. Students find a date, get dressed up, go out to eat with a group of people, come back to campus, and drink until the time comes to go to the party. Since this campus-wide formal is a new event, I invite the Davidson student body to try something different: go sober and stay sober. This formal gives us the chance to meet and hang out with new and exciting people. Do we really want to meet new friends in a drunken stupor? I charge Davidson students to forge new friendships and have conversations that they will remember the next morning.

In past articles, we have discussed the dangers of alcohol in social environments. Examples include rape and various forms of alcohol poisoning. Many students have recently joined the fraternities and eating houses of Patterson Court. These organizations are one of the main social outlets on campus. Self-selection weekend this year brought its traditional mayhem, with a few hospital trips for some students. Let’s leave the alcohol-centered events for at least one night. We can play together soberly, honestly, and genuinely. This campus-wide event provides an opportunity for the entire student body to celebrate together independently of houses and other organizations. We have a chance to get dressed up and hang out with the entire campus, which is a rare occurrence. It’s pretty simple—sober partying. Many people say they have more fun if they are fully lucid. Let’s all resolve to set this one night aside for a sober evening. Just try and see—you might meet someone special (and remember it!).