THE DAVIDSONIAN

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Davidson College students will present the rock opera, “Jesus Christ Superstar,” on stage April 15-18. The production will be in
Love Auditorium of Chambers Building, beginning at 8 p.m. on Thursday, 4:30 p.m. on Friday, 8 p.m. on Saturday, and
at 2 p.m. on Sunday.

Admission is $7 for adults and $5 for students and seniors. Proceeds will benefit the Zack Lacy Book Fund in
the college library. Tickets can be reserved by calling the college ticket office at 892-2135 from 2:30-5:30 p.m. weekdays.

“Jesus Christ Superstar” was the first musical to incorporate rock music, and launched the careers of the young songwriting duo
of Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber. It is based on the last seven days in the life of Jesus
Christ, and follows him and his disciples from the beginning of Judas’ disillusionment with Jesus to the crucifixion itself. It
presents a non-traditional perspective of Christ in which he is as unsure about himself as Judas, and hints at a
relationship between Jesus and Mary Magdalene.

The show features seniors Steven Meriwether as Jesus and Austin Rios as Judas, and freshman Anna McDonald as Mary. The
show is being produced by sophomore Amanda Lanier and directed by junior student Chase Bringardner.

State’s poet laureate plans appearance

By COLLEGE RELATIONS

North Carolina’s Poet Laureate, Fred Chappell, will give a reading at Davidson College on Tuesday, April 20. He will also
present the college’s annual Vereen Bell Memorial Awards to students for their original works of poetry, fiction, and drama.

The presentation begins at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union, and admission is free. Chappell’s appearance
is funded in part by the North Carolina Arts Council. Chappell was appointed by Gov. Jim Hunt to a five-year
term as the state’s Poet Laureate in December 1997 in recognition of a long and distinguished literary career.

Born in Canton, N.C., and educated at Duke University, Chappell has written a dozen books of verse, two volumes of
stories, one volume of criticism, and seven novels. His latest works include the novel, “Farewell, I’m Bound to Leave You”
(1996), the book of poetry entitled “Spring Garden,” and a nonfiction book called “A Way of Happening: Observations of Contemporary
Poetry.” Chappell has taught at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro since 1964.

Among the awards and honors Chappell has received over his long career are the Sir Walter Raleigh Prize (1973), the
North Carolina Award for Literature (1980), Yale University Library’s Bollingen Prize in poetry (1985), a literature award from the National
Academy of Arts and Letters (1968), the best foreign book prize from the Academie Francaise (1972), and the Aiken Taylor
Award in poetry (1996).

He also received the O. Max Gardner Award of the University of North Carolina system in 1987, which is the
highest teaching award the state university system can bestow. His duties as poet laureate include serving as “ambassador of North
Carolina literature past and present, and of all North Carolina writers—especially living writers. The poet laureate serves as a voice
for literature, affirming the potentially transforming value of poetry in our lives and carrying the message to the people of
this state and beyond.”

Chappell has interpreted this through an emphasis on the importance of reading, writing, and literacy in his personal appearances around
the state. He is the fourth North Carolinian to hold the title of Poet Laureate, succeeding Sam Ragan (1982-1996), James
L. Pearson (appointed in 1953), and Arthur T. Abernethy (appointed in 1948).

Davidson’s Vereen Bell Memorial Award is presented annually to students submitting outstanding creative writing. The award memorializes author Vereen M.
Bell, a member of the Davidson Class of 1932.
