Standing behind all of you

To the Editors and readers:

In his recent Davidsonian article (March 23), Chaplain Rob Spach expressed his “hope that lesbians and gays here [at Davidson]
will be aware that there are many people of faith who want to stand beside them in solidarity, and to
stand there because that is where we believe God stands.”

We as Christians of the Davidson community wish to express our support of and agreement with this view. Through our
understanding of Scripture and the proclamation of the Gospel, we believe that relationships, both homosexual and heterosexual, should be based
in “mutuality, fidelity, kindness, respect, integrity, and commitment for the long haul.” We as followers of Christ look forward to
the day when our churches and society will be fully inclusive of all people, regardless of sexual orientation.

Signed, in alphabetical order:
Evan Anderson, Zhenya Artuyunyan, Barbara Bagnall, Andy Baxter, Christina Biedermann, Kelly Byrd, Brian Campbell, Kelly Carter, John Cole, Amanda Covington,
DeWitt Crosby, Ann Elizabeth Culp, Margaret Dasher, Sarah Davis, Ann Harriot Fisher, Wes Goldsberry, Pam Hockert, Cader Howard, Anna Judy,
Emily Katzfey, David Kaylor, Katie Keith, Rob Leacock, Allen Lee, Wendy Legerton, Drew Lindsey, Jenny Lyon, Elisabeth Malphurs, Paul Marciano,
Michelle Markey, Leslie Marsicano, Lindsay Meyers, Stephanie Mlynar, Jody Moore, Matthew Moretz, Joslyn Ogden, Grace Robinson, Tommy Ross, Ellen Runnels,
Adam Sanders, Emily Setina, Britton Shurley, Erin Smith, Anne Stancil, Chris Tuttle, Brenda Tapia, Lindsey Vaala, Bjorn Wickstrom

Ah, serenity, jagged edges, bitterness and solitude!

A Frolicking Good Time

Sunday was a little too hot and a little too humid. Shorts stuck to thighs, socks filled with sweat, and
a gray haze stained the sky. It even rained a bit in the late afternoon. And those are surely the
reasons people shied away from a day out on the Court. But Saturday was perfect. It had the perfect temperature
coupled with the perfect wind and some perfect little clouds sprinkled in-between a forecast of no humidity. And those are
surely the reasons so many flocked to frolics on the Court that day.

Several shot water balloons 100 feet into the air upon wary targets. They shot over frisbee throwers, wiffleball players, and
football tossers, landing balloons three feet to each side of the 50-foot slip-n’-slide laid down in the middle of the
Court. It was a difficult task considering the numerous amount of objects that flew through the air that afternoon. Many
sat on House porches, absorbing the atmosphere. Others simply laid out a towel to take a nap or read a
book while their owners allowed them a day out on the Court, especially with all of the playful students. Houses
had coordinated their events to coincide with each other and no one denied the benefit of that! When attendees weren’t
cheering on the band at one end of the Court, they rooted on mud-wrestlers at the other. On their way
towards the softball games on the IMAC fields, they stopped to bounce over the hay jumps on the slip-n’-slide -
some with bathing suits and some without. No one could have asked for a better day. Barefoot, bikini-topped girls and
shirtless guys strutted around the Court from place to place, not so much caring about the bombings in Serbia or
its influence on their Political Science class. Math majors found the common denominator of the great day in the high
number of people that had come to hang out. Econ majors noted the playful students.The vast majority ate roasted pig
and apple pie as they listened to an upbeat band playing all kinds of favorites. Boys frolicked. Girls frolicked. Even
dogs frolicked. The puppies seemed to understand the grand significance of the time, for it wasn’t every day that outdoor
speakers and frisbees wouldn’t steal too much from a college budget. History majors said we should have done this last
week. But the Religion majors quickly reminded them that we had off that day for Easter. And surely, the Philosophy
majors just kind of sat on the grass in the sun and pondered the entertaining thought of why we couldn’t
do this every weekend.

David Rosenberg ’01

Spring is in the air (blam!) Birds are chirping, (bam wham!) flowers are blooming, and the weather (da dun dun
thwack!) is improving. On any given afternoon students are outside (thud slam boom!) enjoying a break from the somber winter
climate. What could be better than a spring day in Davidson (wham wham wham!)? The only thing bothering me is
the Tribal War Dance Music. Don’t follow me? Think you’ve missed out on last week’s fraternity “theme party,” or some
Commons freakazoid entrée? Well, it’s no krabby cake but it does.

Noise Pollution

I’m only troubled by their muzak when I’m studying Chemistry in my room with the window open and all I
can think of is the “Piggy” scene from Lord of the Flies. My palms are sweating, my pulse is racing,
and my brain is on large load spin cycle... Ahhhh! NO, DON’T KILL HIM! IT’S NOT HIS FAULT HE IS
FAT. The freedom to make gratuitous noise is an inalienable right but when does this right infringe on the ears
of others? I believe overpowering percussion instruments drown out more than just yesterday’s D- on the history review. These drums
accelerate the natural rhythms of life. They create an alternate time, induce nausea, headaches, and dizziness if exposed to prolonged
listening. Granted, I am not taking away their God-given right to beat their hands into bloody stumps but the drummers
in question ought to make music in a less acoustic area.

I'll give you three guesses and make it easier for you by ruling out both asbestos ceiling tiles and the
biology experiment you volunteered to participate in last week. These mild maladies are in fact due to overzealous musicians practicing
their craft on the steps of Belk. Yes, you and I know them by their etiological name Tamboreous maximus, or
in layman’s terms, bongo drummers. The bane of my waning spring semester must be that infernal and repugnant headache medicine
breaking each peaceful spring afternoon with slam blam ba bam wham bam slam! Granted, I am not taking away their
God-given right to beat their hands into bloody stumps but the drummers in question ought to make music in a
less acoustic area.

I laughed so much, forgetting about existing, forgetting about the weight of the minutes. (James Everett, ‘01) Their repetitive and
gratuitous noise should have some restrictions. In lieu of enforcing Davidson’s noise pollution ordinance, I offer a few ideas. If
bongo players insist on fine-tuning their craft, they should do so at a reasonable volume and at a reasonable hour.
Although if they require an expansive forum for their artistry, I am sure they could arrange a radio show on
WALT 1610 to publicly sound their rhythms. All things considered, does it really matter if you’re dancing to the beat
of a different drummer or just beating a different drummer?

David Love ’02
