THE DAVIDSONIAN @ The Student Health Advisors

By Seth Davis
Health Advisor and Arts & Living Editor

As a health advisor at Davidson, I get asked questions that range from the (somewhat) mundane to the completely surprising. When my peers ask questions, it makes my job much easier. Health advisors deal in knowledge. Ask us a question and you'll get an answer. From not knowing one’s limits to not understanding the risks of certain actions, most of the health issues on campus arise from a lack of information. This is not to say that Davidson students are ignorant. In fact, as we are continually reminded when we talk to other students, we are not facing a dearth of knowledge on this campus. Our other major role (in my opinion) is to reiterate what our peers know already.

In this spirit, we speak of responsibility and clear thought. The principle “Know thyself” certainly has relevance for this upcoming weekend. First Night Down is approaching, and to the freshmen in particular I direct my advice this week (though I hope that, in addition to being helpful, it can stand for anyone). I return, then, to “Know thyself.” There may be, though I don’t know for certain, a number of you who will make the choice to drink this weekend. Among that number may be underage people. To them, I must add the principle “Know the rules.” Underage drinking is illegal (yes, in North Carolina one must be twenty-one to drink alcohol). There is no “cup rule,” by the way. If you make the choice to break the rules, then you must be ready to take responsibility for the penalties. I’m sure that each one of you realizes that, and I don’t want to preach.

So, please, I ask you to make an effort to recognize your limits. If you make the choice to drink, make sure you know a few things about that choice. Please ask yourself why you are making the choice. Before you take that first sip (or guzzle, gulp, chug) of alcohol, look at yourself and ask what your limits are. Really examine that question. Nights spent hunched over toilet bowls or in hospital rooms aren’t any fun. This advice stands for any night that you party, be it on the Court or off the Court.

Patterson Court can be a really fun place. You may spend some of the most relaxing afternoons of your life sitting on the porch of a house eating with your eating house sisters or fraternity brothers. You may spend some of the most energetic nights of dancing in your life down at one of the Court parties. But life on the Court has its risks if you make certain choices regarding your health. These days may be the most dynamic and rewarding of your life. If the Court is for you (and it may not be), please enjoy your time there. The Court itself is in the midst of a changing time. There is a new (albeit interim) Patterson Court Advisor—Dean Jeffries. Dean Jeffries was gracious enough to talk to me about his role as...the Patterson Court Advisor. He wants to help the Court maintain its “smooth running” and is busy working on the coordination of First Night Down and Self-Selection. For all the freshmen, Self-Selection posters chock full of important information will soon be up in the halls. Dean Jeffries hopes to be a visible presence on the Court this year, because he recognizes the value of being a familiar face. He comes to the position of Patterson Court Advisor with extensive experience in Greek Affairs, having done his graduate assistantship in Greek Affairs at South Carolina, where he ran USC’s equivalent of Patterson Court. So, as First Night Down approaches, the Court has a new, committedly active Advisor and a group of people ready to see what all the hoopla is about. To those freshmen excited about First Night Down, I wish them a good, safe time. Above all, I wish you an exciting four years at Davidson. As Julia, one of my fellow Health Advisors always reminds me, these four years can be exciting and rewarding, especially if one finds good friends. I wish you all, freshman or not, that kind of success.

ARTS & LIVING
Crossword
Hippity Hoppity
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Hippity Hoppity

Across
1. Fancy lighter
6. Reprimand
11. Bikini half
14. Cherish
15. Blender setting
16. Took off
17. Beatrix Potter character
19. Sullivan and Mr.
20. Attitude
21. U2 song
22. Ben Folds Five, for one
23. Recedes
25. Kirk or Diaz
28. Spanish meats
31. Beer with a lime
32. Speak publicly
33. Actor Leto
34. Christian college org.
37. They’re Mad?
38. Spanish soups
39. Newspaper item
40. Sugar-free soft drink
41. Singer Merman
42. Strike down
43. Far from the coast
45. Singer John et al.
46. They’re from showers.
48. Salamander’s cousin
49. Mimicked
50. Black or Dead
51. Abets
55. Rose-rose connector
56. Alice in Wonderland character
60. Neither’s partner
61. Televised
62. Author Cussler
63. They’re between els and ens
64. Bombards with junk e-mail
65. Union pioneer Chavez

Down
1. Shoots with a laser
2. Concept
3. Kettles
4. Gifts
5. Poetic above
6. Breadths
7. Rubik’s invention
8. Globe
9. Flower necklace
10. Private eye, for short
11. Uncle Remus character
12. Sound box
13. NC county
18. Loots
22. Pearl Jam CD
24. Spelling competition
25. Reef material
26. War god
27. En vogue
28. Baby horse
29. Soprano solo
30. TV adaptor
31. Kind of crusader
33. Deere and Doe
35. Location
36. Colorado Indians
38. Celebrity
39. Unnecessary
41. “Telephone Line” band
42. Cut away
44. Flanders from The Simpsons
45. Tear’s partner
46. Augusta’s state
47. Word with salts
48. Deprivations
50. Plant-part
52. Heron relative
53. She sings 29-down
54. Mon or mob ending
56. “That ____ then, this is now.”
57. With it
58. Famous Gershwin
59. NCAA component