THE DAVIDSONIAN

The ideal profession?

Looking for that ideal profession? JOBTRAK just not providing those viable options that you want? Are you people-oriented? Do you like the idea of service? How about a six-figure salary? If you answered yes to more than two of these questions, then the following job just might be for you.

This might surprise you, but one of the most lucrative and rapidly increasing job markets deals with pampering and taking care of the newly rich. Yes, an average of 60-120 thousand dollars can be fetched by today’s butler or maid. The 10/24/99 New York Times article, “Molding Loyal Pamperers for the Newly Rich,” refers to these individuals on a more gender-neutral ground, household managers. Not since the roaring 1920s has there been such a high demand for these individuals. In the last decade, the number of American households with price tags of 10 million dollars and above has nearly quadrupled, from roughly 65,000 to 275,000. In addition, the number of people that can afford butlers, or household managers, has also been on the rise. According to the Internal Revenue Service, nearly twice as many people reported incomes of $200,000 dollars or more in 1997 than in 1990. Yet, as the New York Times article states, “many of these new rich need as much schooling in the art of living as the students in butler school.”

Still interested in dropping out of the running for those consulting and banking jobs? For $7,200, you can take an eight-week course and learn about how elegantly to care and feed the rich. This “Household Manager” 101 course can be taken at the Starkey International Institute for Household Management, which markets itself as the Harvard of high-end household help. The Starkey Institute was founded by Mrs. Mary Louise Starkey, a former chiropractor, in Denver, Colorado. Some of the courses deal with issues such as boundaries, personal style, and the geometry of the table setting. Colorado a little out of the way? Professional Domestics, a similar institution run by Carol Scudere, operates in Columbus, Ohio. Ms. Scudere, in a statement in the New York Times article said, “I wish I had more students and more applicants because I could place them all.” Placement agencies that specialize in servants for the rich in New York, Washington, and Los Angeles report that the demand far exceeds the supply.

So why would one want to work for individuals often classified by such abrasive words as: selfish, aggressive, rushed, stuck-up, and judgmental? Does it have to do with the $60,000-120,000 average starting yearly wages? Or the fact that most of this money goes directly into the bank because your living expenses are taken care of by your employers? Or do the reasons for becoming a household manager lie deeper within? Mrs. Starkey of the Starkey Institute provides one philosophy behind this decision: “You have chosen the profession of service... You are about to be propelled into a world many of us never see, a world of plenty, of power, and of indulgence. Remember, you are going to be paid as a professional.”

So in that fevered and confusing search for the perfect post-undergraduate job, don’t forget to examine the possibilities and perks of being a household manager. Where else can you be surrounded by expensive things day in and day out? Travel the world? Have all of your living expenses taken care of? And best of all, be paid a six-figure starting salary? This article has been written in an effort to illustrate that there is no such thing as the “typical” job. Let your mind wander outside the confines of the square. For some people, the perfect job can be found in some of the strangest places. Don’t be small-minded, go after what interests you. If you enjoy doing something, there is probably a job out there that will pay you to do just that!

OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

I love possums... I love fuzzy critters, especially if they are REALLY ugly or cute. I’m writing about these critters because I was almost killed by a pack of skunks. See, skunks are NOT cute or really cute, so I’m not a fan. Of course, it doesn’t help that they tried to kill me and feed me to their little skunk kids. See, back home in South Carolina, we have an abundance of the following critter: Possums. Now, I love possums. See, possums aren’t really mammals like your killer skunk, they are what we call ULGs... Or Ugly Little Guys. The problem with possums is that they are not the world’s most intelligent animals, all you have to do is drive around long enough, and you are bound to see a few of the slower of the species... and their insides not too far away. Also, as opposed to running away from a pack of wild skunks, your average possum has the following plan: I’ll stop here and wait for them and then... Play dead. Now, perhaps I’ve been watching too much television, but if a big honking bear (or my pack of skunks) was running after me, the LAST damn thing I’d do would be to stop and play dead, allowing them to come up and eat me. I’m sure some of you are thinking, “I thought possums were called Opossums, and what the hell is Jimbo talking about?” Well, y’all are right, and the way that possums got that O in front of their name is from crossing the road, seeing an approaching car’s headlights and thinking, “O hell, I’m a goner now.” So even though the skunks have pushed all the ugly and cute critters off the campus, somewhere out along the road is a possum waiting to cross and remember that “only you can stop the possum slaying.”

Jimmy Burford ’02

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2

LETTER TO THE EDITORS

Stealing at the Union Café

Bringing the Honor Code into the limelight

Writing and submitting this letter to the Davidsonian was grievous and disappointing for me. I hope that as many of you read this letter you will share my sense of dismay, disappointment, and trust that the issue below can be resolved. I have been elected to chair the Honor Council. I don’t take this responsibility lightly, and I hope that as members of this covenanted community, you also take seriously the code. We pride ourselves on the Honor System, an institutional bulwark that is precariously dependent upon our behavior. The Honor System empowers and liberates students to live uncompromised lives that fearlessly reflect our most authentic selves. We are all familiar with the pithy abbreviation of the code — that we covenant not to lie, steal, or cheat in this community. Recently, it has come to my attention that stealing is an increasingly frequent event in the Union Café. As students, we are failing to uphold a tradition that has been entrusted to us. We are not only bound to abide by the code, but also to turn in others who violate the spirit of trust that Davidson students haveprocured over our 150+ year existence. What kind of stealing goes on in the Café? Perhaps some of it is unintentional. People forget to pay for things or that they ordered cheese on their sandwich. Forgetfulness does not excuse the action. However, deliberate stealing is far more disturbing. Students have been filling up cups with Sprite and telling the cashier it’s water; they have poured Snapple bottles into a fountain cup and paid only the price of a fountain drink; they have removed toothpicks from sandwiches to pay a cheaper price. These examples may seem trivial, but the underlying issue is that students are consciously being dishonest. Stealing from the café has detrimental effects on Davidson’s Honor System. Stories are powerful vessels that deliver reality-based perceptions. We all hear stories about dollar bills pinned to bulletin boards, pens left in the library for months, and free Coke cans placed atop the machine. I would hate to think of a café employee going to her/his home in this community and telling stories about their experiences with the Honor Code; they have every reason to believe that the Code is a joke, a facade that enhances Davidson's marketability to prospective students. We know otherwise; we know that most students do take the Code seriously; we must ensure that all students abide by the code. One possibility for the amelioration of the problem is installing cameras in the Café. When I heard that this option had been mentioned, I felt grateful to be able to share this problem with the student body. It would be an insult to our system to have cameras in the Café. We will have failed ourselves. Collectively, we must restore the respect to the café employees. Collectively, we must stop the eroding sense of trust that plagues our system. Collectively, we must reaffirm the meaning behind our signatures freshman year. Collectively, we must pass onto future Davidson students a meaningful and functional Honor System. 

Joslyn Ogden '00

Tarik Khan’s Top Ten

10. Before fainting you tell, “Don’t let 'em take my leg, man!”
9. After juice and crackers you get back in line for another round.
8. You look longingly at the blood bag and say, “God, I'd love to taste you.”
7. To ROTC: “Boy, you guys sure did [expletive] up in Vietnam, man.”
6. You say to the nurse, “Take this bag and give it to that girl sitting over there.”
5. “Hey sweetheart, instead of that lame handle bar, give this a squeeze.”
4. You grab the straw off the juice box and start poking at the blood bag.
3. After the nurse withdraws your needle, you volunteer to donate sperm.
2. You yell out “The last time I had a needle in my arm I got AIDS!”
1. “Blood fight!”

SOMETHING TELLS ME THAT I PICKED UP THE WRONG LAUNDRY.

The Other Side

“Do you, Larry, take Walt...”

First of all, we would like to apologize for not writing a column in the last few papers. Chuck was out sick with the flu, and well, we just couldn’t go on without our head of research, but boy did Chuck pick up the slack this week. Stand back folks, we actually took notes on this one. Please note, this is part I in a two-week series on homosexuality and homosexual marriages. Any points brought up in the opening paragraph not covered in this edition will be addressed next week.

Over the weekend, we actually sat long enough to watch a piece of that wonderful “news” broadcast, the 700 Club. Oh Pat... We have nothing funny to say here because he is that frightening. The subject of one of Pat’s rantings was homosexual marriage. Pat was preaching of the dangers of allowing homosexual marriage to exist. Pat pointed out that the Apostle Paul in Romans clearly states that homosexuality is a sin and that marriage, as defined by the Bible, is between a man and a woman. Pat went on to say that it was between a man and a woman because he said the purpose of marriage is procreation. He then proved his mastery of the painfully obvious when he pointed out the fact that homosexuals do not have the necessary organs to produce children. Pat further said that if homosexual marriages were allowed to occur, “...the wrath of God would befall our nation.” Pat went on to say that should these marriages exist, “We can forget about America the Beautiful and the home of the brave.” Pat’s final point was that homosexuals did not have Jesus in their lives, and that by calling the 700 Club’s 800 number, they could cure homosexuality through the Bible: “Jesus has cured hundreds of thousands of you [homosexuals].”

Oh Pat, we disagree with you on so many levels, where can we begin? Since one of us is a biology major, we feel that it is necessary to explore the biological implications of Pat’s outrageous statements.

1. Upwards of 50% of sexual activity in the animal kingdom is homosexual activity. That’s right, kids. Chim-chim could have been more than Speed Racer’s crew chief.
2. These days, all a woman has to do is go to a sperm bank, men aren’t really needed in the marriage aspect. Kind of frightening, isn’t it men? As soon as science creates a viable synthetic form of sperm, we’re pretty much obsolete, since women can open their own jars and change their own tires these days.

We would like to state our position on homosexual marriage with two simple words—who cares? The bottom line in all of this is that if you are a heterosexual, homosexual marriages do not affect you! Stick to your own business for Pete’s sake (because we all hate to piss off Pete). Banning a practice solely due to the fact that you find it morally displeasing is not a decent enough reason. We find Tammy Faye Bakker to be stomach-churning, but you don’t see us trying to ban her from television. Let’s take a moment to look at some of the other things that were banned because people found them morally displeasing. When television first started with sitcoms, they were not allowed to show a married couple sleeping in the same bed. Archie Bunker was the first character in a sitcom to show a toilet on television. This is perhaps the most poignant and unfunny, however; interracial marriages weren’t allowed for a long time. This is all so stupid. None of these practices hurts anyone, and it was simply because of people’s intestinal unfortitude that they were not allowed. They’re all perfectly legal these days, and few people even care. Homosexual marriages are no different; it’s simply two people who love each other wanting to consecrate their bond like a man and a woman.

So due to a lack of space, tune in next week, same Other Side time, same Other Side station... (Okay, so it’s not as cool as Batman, but eh, whatchagonnado?) Also coming in next week’s article, the next Springer final thought!

Cort Heroy ’02
David Stroupe ’02