__THE DAVIDSONIAN__  
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1999

### Will Thompson ’00 replaces Cintra Pollack ’99 as Union Board President

By Keits HETHERINGTON  
Arts & Living Editor

Current President of the Union Board, Cintra Pollack ’99, and Union President-elect, Will Thompson ’00, have been meeting regularly to prepare for Thompson to officially take charge of the Union Board. President of the Student Government Association (SGA), Ann-Harriot Fisher ’99, appointed Thompson early in 1998 to fill independent senator Joe Haywood’s seat after the senator resigned in order to travel abroad.

When asked about his past leadership experience, Thompson said, “I served on a Student Government Association committee as a freshman, but not until the second half of my sophomore year did I become seriously involved in extracurriculars.”

Although the job of Union Board President has traditionally required the maintaining of a close working relationship with the SGA President and his government, the office of Union President and the responsibilities associated with it are different from the leadership of the SGA.

The Union Board organizes an average of two events each day and some four hundred events each year. Anyone is welcome to submit an application to the Union Executive Board to be considered for a committee chairmanship. An interview is required. The interview sign-up sheet is located beside the main doorway of the Student Union.

Once the twenty-one committee heads have been selected, “each will recruit committee members.” Thompson emphasized that “good committees are crucial to the success of the Union Board. Alone, no board can be much of anything.” Recently, committees have suffered from a lack of members. Working out the problems in the committee system is particularly important because the new president’s agenda will place an even greater strain on every committee.

Thompson’s agenda includes “bringing more big-name bands to Davidson, working to draw students to Union events, and working to end the separation of the College community into Union and Court.” Pollack said, “Bringing popular bands to campus is something the Union Board has tried to do. In the last couple of years, however, the price required to bring acclaimed bands to Davidson has grown exponentially.”

The Union budget has failed to keep pace with rising operating costs. When asked to discuss the Union Budget, Pollack said, “although the Union has roughly two thousand more dollars this year, the increase is the result of our being allowed to roll over some monies from the previous year’s budget, not a serious budgetary increase.” Some student leaders feel that a hike in the Union operating budget, currently totaling two hundred thousand dollars, is committed to operating such programs as those made possible by the College Union.

Pollack, nevertheless, feels that improvements at the Union have been made even in the absence of a larger budget. She said, “the Union Board is spending dollars more efficiently than when I assumed leadership of the board now almost one year ago.” Thinking carefully about expenditures has also forced the Board “to have a clearer picture of where it is going.”

While excited about improvements in financial planning and management, Pollack said she “certainly didn’t think that 74% of African-Americans were ‘dissatisfied’ or ‘very dissatisfied’ with the Union.” The statistic is from the 1998 first fall Union poll.

When asked what she thought was the most successful event of her time as Union president, Pollack said, “events are successful not necessarily because of the numbers that come to them, but because of the impact they have on those who do attend.”them. I think that events are successful because of the mix of people who attend and the impact that it has on them when they leave. So many times, I actually am not the judge of whether an event was successful.” Thompson complimented Pollack’s feeling regarding success saying, “It’s kind of an individual thing.” The two presidents did say, however, what events they thought were the best. Thompson thought the Bela Fleck concert was the year’s best event and Pollack believed Gloria Steinem’s visit to Davidson in the fall was the number one event. Both saw the Union’s broadening commitment to the community by hosting such events as the Common Grounds Meeting as real progress. Pollack expressed her support for Thompson, saying, “I’m wholly confident in the next president's abilities to continue my work and improve upon it.” Pollack, a recipient of the Watson fellowship, is graduating in the spring. Thompson's term as Union Board President will continue into the fall semester of 1999.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

News Editors
SCOTT REEDER
ASHLEY E. KING

Op-Ed Editor
CARRIE ARTHUR

Sports Editors
PETER CLARK
SETH DAVIS
DAVID JOHNSTON

Sports Layout Editors
KELLS HETHERINGTON
ADEE

Head Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
ANNA JUDY

Web Editor
PETER MARTIN

Second Semester Alcohol Violations
On 1/11/99 at 9:30 PM on the first floor of Irwin, one student received a violation.

On 1/16/99 at 12:26 AM at the corner of Patterson Court, one student received a violation.

On 2/6/99 at 1:00 AM in Chambers Room 321, Officer Dane Laney found two students smoking and drinking wine in Chambers as he was completing his routine patrol to turn off the building’s lights. He cited both students with violations.

Other Incidents
On 1/22/99, a student reported that his bike was stolen from the bike rack outside Richardson Dormitory. The student valued the bike at $255 and said that it was locked with a U-lock.

On 2/5/99, due to a telephoned complaint, the Campus Police dispersed a loud party at NBF 306.

On 2/8/99, Residence Life Area Coordinator Danielle Hiar reported that some unknown persons had vandalized the east side of Flowe and the columns on the east side of Hart with paint balls. The paint balls had also damaged the walkways by Flowe and between the Jamieson and Hart buildings.

Note: Since the beginning of the second semester, the Campus Police has received five reports for stolen bikes. Of those five stolen bikes, two have been recovered. The Campus Police reminds students to lock their bikes and to ask before borrowing other students’ bikes.

Founded in 1914
“Vail Commons’ Foremost College Weekly”
You can also view The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/
Tuesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College.