. that all is relatively calm on the cyberfront by now. Since we were invited to join in, however, and
as we built things with the expectation that they would endure. To throw away money (painfully acquired) _ THE DAVIDSONIAN
Preserve Small Town Davidson: the problem of “urban sprawl” A few years back, I saw these stickers that read “Preserve
Small Town Davidson.” At the time, I did not really stop to think about the significance of this statement. I
viewed Davidson as a bastion of small-town flavor that would persevere in the coming decades. It was not until I
was driving back to school this year and I veered off onto the “Davidson / Davidson College” exit, that I
saw how wrong an assumption like this was. On the right of the exit just behind the lake and on
the right side of Griffith Street, a large portion of the forest had been clear-cut. An unfinished roadway meandered through
the bright orange Carolina clay and only a small fringe of trees along the lake were left. It was disturbing
to realize that just a few months earlier the area had been fully wooded. It appeared as if the urban
sprawl from Charlotte had finally reached and infiltrated the small village of Davidson. The large apartment complexes, strip malls, and
neon nightmares are only a heartbeat away from consuming what is left of the greenbelt between the highway and Davidson’s
city proper. In the bigger picture, Davidson is only one of the latest victims of the problem of “urban sprawl”
or the “suburban crawl.” Incidences of residential developments and strip malls, linked together by newly constructed highways, are occurring across
the country at an alarming rate. Driving around, the bright lights of neon signs and acres of parking lots beg
the traveler to park and pursue the goods. Huge tracts of cleared lands with stately walls and names encourage the
discerning buyer to take a closer look. Apartment complexes, often larger than some small towns, preach their low monthly rates
and numerous features. As one article states, this “cartoon architecture and other junk” that we’ve smeared all over the landscape,
this ugliness, represents the surface expression of deeper problems. These sequences of eyesores pose economically and environmentally catastrophic results that
will be socially and spiritually devastating. Why is it that during the years that followed WWII, one of the most
prosperous times in America, almost nothing but the cheapest possible buildings were erected? Compare the lavish and richly appointed firehouses
or post offices constructed in the early 1900s with the mainstream, no-frill, concrete-box counterpart today. Compare the home of the
small-town bank president of the late 19th Century and the business leader of today. The typical 19th-century home was built
to last with the expectation that it would endure the ages, possessing strong masonry walls and intricate detail. On the
other hand, the typical homes of today are constructed with little more than two-by-fours, Sheetrock, and the bare minimum of
extra details. As another article states: “When we were a far less wealthy nation, to throw away money (painfully acquired)
and effort (painfully expended) on something certain to fall apart in thirty years would have seemed immoral, if not insane,
in our great-grandparents’ day” (Policy.com). These structures from the by-gone eras allow us to view the past and provide us
with a link to our ancestry. They charge us with the idea that we are the product of the men
and women of the past. The buildings that we use and live in describe a good deal about the people
of the day. So what do the buildings of today say about our society? What does the Super K-Mart or
nameless strip-mall say when one knows that they are constructed with the conscious knowledge that they will disintegrate in a
few decades? Since these structures are not expected to speak to any era but our own, is our society severing
the link between the present and the future? The sprawl seems to be engulfing areas faster than we realize. In
the crest of the “crawl” the differentiation between cities across the country seems to be disappearing. Shouldn’t areas have their
own identities? So the words on that sticker, “Preserve Small Town Davidson” ring with an even louder message today. To
whom it may concern If you’re one of those people who would like to see Davidson get more publicity, and
you’re one of those who believes that the only bad press is no press at all, then this past week
was an epic one for you. Last week’s issue of The Davidsonian featured an article by student Aaron Houck regarding
the death of Davidson alum Vince Foster, Class of 1967. Although most Americans have been led to believe that Foster’s
death amounted to no more than a suicide, Gary David Martin (Davidson Class of ’65) and others feel that Foster’s
death was more likely a murder, covered up by federal authorities (feel free to refer to the September 27, 1999
issue of this newspaper — the article in question appears on page 2, and it is worth reading). Martin puts
forth a variety of evidence in support of his claim, which Houck lists in his article. Now, the fun part.
One of Mr. Martin’s allies posted the article to an online student journalism discussion group and public online forum called
“Stumedia.” Within hours, probably, the collective student journalistic ethics Gestapo (or at least certain delegates in Maine, Nebraska, and California)
had leapt all over Houck’s article, calling attention to its alleged one-sidedness. (See this week’s Letters to the Editor for
an example.) They have accosted not only Mr. Houck, but have assailed The Davidsonian itself with such adjectives and phrases
as “poor quality,” “incompetence,” “shoddy,” “careless,” and my personal favorite, “[a newspaper] that might be seen in a high school.”
I have been late throwing my hat into the ring where this discussion is concerned, and it appears I have
a few comments to make in my college weekly’s defense. I take this opportunity to respond. Dear student journalism narcs,
Thank you for your sudden and exuberant interest in The Davidsonian. I find it both amusing and flattering that so
many people have invested this much time harping on an article that appeared in the pages of a high-school-caliber newspaper.
This is not to undermine the importance of the article or the issue at hand, however; the dispute over the
death of Vince Foster is far from being cut and dry, and some of the allegations being made are quite
severe. Each side has its own version of the story, and each side has its own evidence to support its
own version. The sole aim of Mr. Houck’s article, “Davidson alumnus questions Vince Foster’s death (9/27/99),” was to summarize the
view of one person, namely Gary David Martin, and that it did. If it had been the aim of The
Davidsonian to publish an opinion piece on the issue, in which one view of the Foster “suicide” was to be
endorsed over another, then you would have a legitimate gripe. But that was not our intent, nor do I see
how one could deduce from the nature of the article that it was. As Co-Editor in Chief, I apologize for
the single instance of first person in Mr. Houck’s article, but that by itself is no reason to come down
on our newspaper. Mr. Olson states, “The story lacks any response to Martin’s challenges— a tremendous oversight considering the seriousness
of the charges.” May I remind Mr. Olson and others who share in his opinion that it was a news
story, not a philosophy paper. In any event, thanks for keeping us on our toes. Warm regards,

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1999

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

In response to "questioning Vince Foster’s death” 9/27/99

Dear editors,

I must question the lack of balance in regards to last week’s story “Davidson alumnus questions Martin.” The story lacks
any response to Martin’s charges. By only presenting one side of the story, this article does little to adequately and
responsibly inform the reader of a complex series of events that happened more than five years ago. Nothing in your
article convinces the reader that Martin is anything more than a conspiracy theorist. It is extremely difficult to determine if
the story is a news story, an analysis, or something else — especially when Houck uses the first voice in
his writing. I gleaned little from this article aside from the fact that Foster attended your college (which is an
interesting fact). As a student journalist, I would strongly encourage that your paper uses the considerable resources at their disposal.
The Society of Professional Journalists Code of Ethics <http://www.spj.org/ethics> sets forth a straightforward set of ethical guidelines for all journalists
and newspapers to follow.

Sincerely,
Ryan Olson '00
U. of California, San Diego

Dear Editors:

As the descendant of more than one Davidson alumnus, I write to congratulate “The Davidsonian” on its coverage (September 27,
1999) of 1) the Vince Foster death and 2) the release last month by Patrick Knowlton’s attorney, John Clarke, of
their filing with the three-judge panel to whom Independent Counsel Starr reports (that filing is available, as you noted, at
www.fbicover-up.com). I became interested in the Foster death in part because of my Davidson connection (Foster was also President of
SAE at Davidson, just as I was President of MIT’s SAE chapter) and in part because his widow, like my
mother, graduated from Sweet Briar. I was not driven by partisan political concerns (I am not a conservative; heck, I
am not even a Republican!).

Separately, two years ago, Patrick and John successfully petitioned the three-judge panel to include, as a part of the official
Starr report on the Foster death, a 20-page “evidential insert” challenging (based solely on the government’s underlying investigative record of
the death) Starr’s conclusion that Foster had died of a self-inflicted intra-oral gunshot fired from the revolver found in his
hand at Fort Marcy Park, across the Potomac from Washington. The three-judge panel unanimously ordered the 20-page insert legally made
as much a part of the Starr report as anything written by the Office of the Independent Counsel and did
so over Starr’s vigorous and repeated personal objections. Anyone ordering a copy of the report from the government printing office
and reading the 20-page insert and the included government documents (obtained directly from the government through FOIA and other means)
will have no doubt why Starr made every effort to keep Knowlton’s material out of the report.

Although many reporters obtained a copy of the Starr report on the Foster death, not a single major media outlet
even alluded to the existence of the 20-page Knowlton insert, let alone referred to its contents. Patrick witnessed events in
Fort Marcy Park 75 minutes before Foster’s body was discovered in the park on the afternoon of July 20, 1993,
that fundamentally contradict the conclusions of all the top-level government reports on the death (Fiske Report, Starr Report, etc.). Despite
multiple attempts by several FBI agents and others working for the Starr OIC to persuade him to change his account
of what he had seen at Fort Marcy so it would comport with the official line on the death, Patrick
refused to do so. Because he would not change his account, the FBI’s interview reports do not properly relate what
Knowlton told the interviewing agents (the FD-302 interview reports have been publicly available since 1995). Furthermore, Patrick was harassed and
intimidated on the streets of Washington by a couple of dozen individuals in the days leading up to his federal
grand jury testimony in an effort to prevent him from testifying truthfully. Multiple eyewitness accounts corroborate Patrick’s harassment. On the
one occasion when she was present, it reduced Patrick’s companion, a female Ph.D. and one-time college instructor, to tears. She
later stated under oath that the harassment was “intentional, coordinated, intimidating, and extremely unnerving.” The technique used on Patrick is
well-known by the authorities and was employed to intimidate and discredit civil rights workers in the south over 30 years
ago in connection with their grand jury testimony regarding violations of the 1964 and 1965 civil rights acts. Intimidation of
Federal grand jury witnesses by anyone, let alone agents of the government, strikes at the heart of our legal system.
Patrick should be a poster boy for all organizations claiming to defend our civil liberties. That these organizations have completely
ignored his plight is both ironic and horrific, especially given the extensive coverage in the media of allegations that Starr’s
office intimidated another of its grand jury witnesses, a young person named Monica Lewinsky.

Many claim that Foster’s death was an obvious suicide with no evidence to the contrary and that those who believe
otherwise must be mere political partisans. That is not the case with me, not with Patrick, and not with many
others. Indeed, Patrick voted for President Clinton in 1992 and still had a Clinton bumper sticker posted in his Washington
home when he was being harassed in late 1995! I believe fundamental issues of governance, not partisan politics, are important
aspects of the Foster death, not political partisanship. There are numerous indicators of a cover-up in connection with the Foster
death appearing in the official record that have nothing to do with Patrick Knowlton - the authors of the underlying
government investigative documents never conceived that their reports would ever be seen by the public (thanks to FOIA and other
releases). I have had a couple of dozen articles published in hard copy on the Foster death and mailed an
early report of mine on the death to the Davidson SAE House. Any of your readers who would like a
gratis copy via email of the latest release of my critique of the Starr report on the Foster death should
contact me at HSprunt@aol.com (earlier versions were published twice in hard copy, but I retained the copyright). Despite numerous threats,
Patrick Knowlton stood before the grand jury and did his civic duty. Now, who’s going to stand for him?

Warm regards,
Hugh Sprunt
Farmers Branch, Texas

In response to “Tarik Khan’s Top Ten” 9/27/99

To the Editors:

Is anyone else sick to death of Tarik Khan’s articles? At an institution as distinguished as Davidson, it seems as
if we could fill the Opinions section with a little more substance than the ramblings of a sexually-frustrated boy residing
in “CANNON 209.” Get over it, Tarik, the “lame girls” of Davidson DO know where 2nd Cannon is - we
make a conscious choice NOT to go anywhere near there. If you cannot see women as more than weekend hook-ups,
the problem is not with this school but within you. Some of us actually enjoy and appreciate this college and
its many positive aspects. Please stop bombarding our Monday evenings with your obvious bitterness.

Jacqueline and Jennifer Ortega '02
