Masterful, almost perfect performance. He made only one mistake: he forgot his manners. “Gracious victor” would not exactly be the
most fitting way to describe Sedric Webber on January 30th, 1999. After the final buzzer sounded, Sedric moseyed his way
over to the Davidson student section of the stands, located directly behind the visiting team’s bench, and proceeded to verbally
berate all the fans seated there. His particular choice of words is not of the utmost importance. Suffice it to
say that they were not exactly Hallmark material. C of C, that stands for College of Class, right Sedric? There
were little kids in attendance, Sedric (kids who wear Wildcat basketball t-shirts when they shoot baskets in their driveways and
backyards). There were senior citizens there too (senior citizens from the Pines who proudly display red and black on the
front doors of their residential apartments). Heck, there were even a handful of ministers at the game. For forty minutes
you showed them what you’re all about as a player, Sedric, then you walked over to the Davidson student section
after the game and showed them what you’re all about as a man. You must be very proud. Everyone in
Belk Arena really enjoyed that extra special dose of “Big Sedric Style” you dished out during the post-game. Know who
probably enjoyed it most of all? Ben Ebong. He was in a suit and tie at the time, sitting out
the game due to a back injury, but he saw it, nonetheless. Ben tends to remember those sorts of things,
especially when they happen on his own home court. He likes to make little mental notes. Ben might strike you
a little bit differently when you see him in uniform next time, Sedric. Just wait, you'll love it.

At Davidson, Bob McKillop’s players operate according to a slightly different standard. Coach McKillop and his troops believe in something
called integrity. (Don’t worry, we'll send along a dictionary, Sedric). Both on the court and off the court McKillop’s players
conduct themselves in a manner which well bespeaks the institution they represent. Davidson didn’t become the pride of the Southern
Conference just by its win-loss records (though they’re impressive), and certainly not by its trash talking. The Davidson Wildcats have
another little concept they believe in, Sedric. It’s called “team.” So important is it to them, in fact, that they’ve
made one of their goals this year: “To live, work, and play together like a team.” Nope, there’s no “I”
in team, Sedric. Seems we attended different schools when we were younger. What a brilliant idea to run your mouth
off after such a hotly contested game against a team you’re gonna square off against again in under a month’s
time! Nothing like letting lying dogs lie, huh Sedric? Well, let’s hope all that smack talk was a comfort to
you, and that’ll be a comfort to you down the line. We're all glad you had your say. We’ll all
have ours, too - at the Southern Conference tournament - when it really matters. Yeah, you may still be dancing
when all is said and done, Sedric, but unfortunately you’ll have to do your dancing “at large.”

Here at Davidson, we're taught to...

THE DAVIDSONIAN
By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

With less than three weeks remaining in regular season conference play, Davidson’s Wildcats have put together the beginnings of what
could be one final run at the regular season conference title. After losing three out of four games to close
out the month of January, February is beginning to take shape much like December did, when the ‘Cats streaked to
win seven consecutive contests. Davidson opened the month with a five-point victory at the College of Charleston on Monday night.
Junior point guard Jen O’Brien paced the ‘Cats with 20 points, while adding 6 rebounds. Janna Magette and Jessica Montrella
contributed 11 and 10 points respectively. Kerry Brown turned in yet another strong performance, tossing in nine points and leading
the team with eight rebounds. Freshman Leah Uhernik again started for injured senior Jamie Brown (torn meniscus). Uhernik pulled down
six rebounds, nearly matching the per game average of Brown, the second-best defensive rebounder in the conference. Another freshman, Magette,
came off the bench to knock down three of her five three-point attempts. The real news, though, was on the
opposite end of the floor, where the ‘Cat defense held the Cougars to a pitiful 25% (6-24) shooting from the
field in the first half. Charleston improved only slightly in the second frame to bring their final clip to a
less-than-stellar 32% on the night. “I feel that after our game on Monday night, we’re on the right track...

Women’s
By SMYTH Bitter
Sports Writer

Another weekend has flown by, but not before Davidson’s women track team once again enjoyed outstanding performances and set multiple
personal records. On February 5th and 6th, the Wildcats joined 25 other teams, including Clemson, South Alabama, and Western Carolina,
at Clemson. Kicking off the weekend for Davidson were three sensational seniors, co-captain Beth Brewster...Again,” said Montrella. “We know that
when we need to step it up we can play better and things will come alive for us.” Things came
alive again on Saturday, as the Wildcats rolled over Western Carolina to earn their second conference victory of the week.
Katy Kamp returned to top form and O’Brien continued her solid play—both juniors contributed 18 points on the night. O’Brien
added another seven rebounds and seven assists. The teams shot equally well from the field, but Davidson excelled behind the
three-point arc (led by O’Brien and Magette with two apiece) and the free-throw line (the ‘Cats sank 21 of their
29 free throw attempts from the charity stripe) to outscore Western Carolina 78-70 on the afternoon.

Ten different Wildcats saw court time in the contest, including sophomore post players Jessica Heath and Kim Taylor. Taylor completed
a spectacular play converting a behind-the-back pass from Jamie Brown into a layup. Support from the bench is proving invaluable
to Coach John Filar’s Wildcats. “It’s great to have the bench respond like that. It helps so much to have
them enthusiastically behind the girls on the court,” said Kerry Brown. But their collective role has not been limited to
cheerleading. A number of reserves have stepped up recently to make meaningful contributions on the court, including freshman Leah Uhernik
and sophomore Jessica Heath. “With Leah in the starting lineup (for the injured Jamie Brown) and Janna continuing to come
off the bench, the bench has been playing so well,” praised Jessica Montrella. “Jessica Heath has done the same thing—they’ve
pulled out games for us. If they don’t come out and do what they do, we don’t win.”

The ‘Cats still find themselves in the middle of the pack in the Southern Conference with just weeks until the
tournament. When asked about the most menacing opponent standing between Davidson and a Southern Conference championship, Kerry Brown immediately replied,
“Us. We have the potential to kill teams, but sometimes we’re a bunch of head cases. We struggle when we
get down, and in turn, we continue to play poorly.” “Our biggest opponent is ourselves right now,” agreed Montrella. “We
have so much talent, and it’s us standing in our way, not our opposition. I’m not afraid of playing other
teams, because I know when we put it together we can beat anybody out there.”

Lady Wildcats set personal records, earned a PR (5:29). Three fab freshmen, Lucy Billingsley, Hannah Grimes, and Julia Kudravetz, showed
great intensity in the 800 meters, which was evident in the fact that all three raced personal bests of 2:26,
2:40, and 2:36, respectively. Billingsley earned Davidson’s 7th fastest time for an indoor 800 meters. Topping off the meet were
senior Tab Combs and freshman Rhiannon Ollis racing the 500 meters in 1:33 and 1:31, respectively. Both times landed a
spot on the 500 meters Top Ten Performances list for Davidson’s running history. Proud of the meet’s outcome and optimistic
about the future, Coach Thomas Cason commented, “This was a great meet for us as a team and certainly proved
that we can make a strong showing at the Southern Conference Championships in two weeks.” The indoor championships will be
held in Lexington, VA, at Virginia Military Institute on Feb. 19th and 20th. Coach Cason also raced this weekend in
Salisbury, NC. Running the men’s 8K, Cason placed second out of 250 runners.

Davidson College Union Solidarity Week Keynote Address:
- Danielle Howle
- Mike Dyson - "Race Rules" live performance

Saturday, February 13
Sunday, Feb. 14
7:30 pm Love Auditorium
9 pm 900 Room

Wednesday Feb. 10
Friday Feb. 12
SOLIDARITY WEEK: FEB. 14 - FEB. 21

Tuesday Feb. 16
Movie: Coffee House
8:30 am - 11:15 am

Sunday Feb. 14
Monday Feb. 15
Slam NY Poets
Common Ground
Chinese New Year Workshops:
3:30 Home Room
Tom D.C.P.C. Fellowship Hall
Vietnam: A Long Time Coming
4:30 Outpost
"Should I Break Up My Diet?"
Valentine's Day Jumpin Java
8 pm - 12:30 pm
Dramatic Readings
Outpost
9 pm Balcony of Phi Hall
Poetry Reading
Jumpin Java
8:15 pm Baker Pool

Saturday Feb. 13
10 pm Outpost
8 pm - 12:30 pm
Jumpin Java
Climbing Wall
Danielle Howle
9:30 pm Home Room, free!
8 pm 900 Room
Outpost
7-9 pm Johnston Gym
900 Room
