By Kerry SuGRUE Staff Writer

The Davidson Women’s Volleyball team had yet another outstanding week of play as they breezed past UNC Greensboro and Georgia
Southern in two 3-game sweeps. Davidson now posts an incredible 25-2 record overall and 16-0 in the Southern Conference, guaranteeing
them a first-place finish in the conference. Friday night’s victory over Georgia Southern marked the Wildcats' 16th consecutive win, continuing
their record-setting season.

On Tuesday night, Davidson quickly sent the squad from UNC Greensboro packing after 3 games: 15-12, 15-11, 15-11. Even though
they trailed early in the match, falling to 8-12 at one point during the first game, the Wildcats managed to
notch seven straight points to regain the lead and eventually take the opening win. They never trailed UNCG again after
that point and dominated their opponents in the next two games.

Senior Gina Lawrence, one of two Wildcat players to earn Southern Conference Player of the Week honors this season, led
Davidson with 17 digs and 17 kills. Junior Mara Mordini, Lawrence’s Player of the Week counterpart from earlier this season,
posted 11 kills to complement her game-high 19 digs. Mordini is currently ranked No. 16 in the nation and leads
the conference in digs per game (4.14). Junior Brooke Bentley recorded 10 kills and 18 digs in the match, once
again delivering the consistency that has been a trademark of her outstanding play this season.

Friday night’s match against Georgia Southern proved to be no tough fight for the unstoppable Wildcats as they again defeated
their opponents in three straight games. The closest Georgia Southern ever came to overpowering the ’Cats was in the second
game when Davidson won the match by a narrow two-point majority, 16-14. A pep talk from Head Coach Lisa Marston
inspired a return to top form in the final game as the Wildcats ended the contest with a decisive 15-11
win. Mordini gave another standout performance as she led the team with 16 kills and 9 digs. Sophomore Erica Schwartz
ran the offensive show, tallying 42 assists, while Bentley hit an amazing .421 attack percentage and totaled 9 kills and
8 digs for the night.

The Davidson Volleyball team has been forced to play five games in a match only twice this season and have
played four only twice as well during their hot streak of 16 consecutive wins. Davidson is ranked ninth in the
nation for their win/loss percentage (.923) according to the American Volleyball Coaches Association and they currently hold the 7th place
slot in their district. They lead the league in kills per game (15.56) and hitting percentage (.236), while, individually, Lawrence
(.282) and Mordini (.275) are third and fifth, respectively, in the conference.

The ’Cats face their next Southern Conference competitor, Furman, on the road Nov. 7 and they will be back on
the road for their following game, a Nov. 9 non-conference match-up with Winthrop in Rock Hill, S.C.

Road win marks 7th victory
Press RELEASE Davidson S.I.D.

Junior Ryan Crawford had three interceptions and two blocked kicks, and senior Eric Ferguson rushed for a career-best 194 yards
to lead Davidson (7-3) to a 24-14 victory over Centre College (4-5) on Saturday afternoon. Amazingly, the Wildcats’ longest scoring
drive of the afternoon lasted just three plays and covered only 11 yards.

Davidson’s first score came early in the second quarter when Crawford blocked a Rocky Ryser punt and senior Roland Williams
took the loose ball 28 yards into the end zone. The ’Cats have now scored touchdowns on three blocked punts
this season. The biggest gaffe of the game came on Centre’s next possession. Facing a fourth-and-two from their own 11,
the Colonels ran a fake punt that went nowhere, giving Davidson the ball at the nine-yard line. After three incompletions,
freshman Daniel Hanks put the Wildcats ahead for good, 10-7, with a 25-yard field goal.

On the ensuing kickoff, junior Adam Stockstill forced the Centre kick returner to fumble and freshman Wes Wooten recovered at
the Centre 11. Ferguson scored his first TD of the day on a two-yard run on third-and-one at the two,
giving Davidson a 17-7 lead into the half.

The Wildcats were able to rack up offensive yardage in the second half after gaining just 70 yards in the
first half. Having gained just 29 yards over the first two quarters, Ferguson was off and running with runs of
42, 32, 15, 15, and 11 yards en route to amassing 165 yards in the second half. His six-yard score
with 11:46 left in the game gave the ‘Cats a commanding 10-point lead, which was how the game would end.
Davidson had a turnover margin of -11 entering the game, but did not turn the ball over even once while
taking the ball from Centre six times. Along with Crawford’s three interceptions, sophomore Sam Fraundorf and freshman Jim Carney also
picked off passes. The Wildcats have picked off 23 passes this season, one more than last year. “It’s great to
finally win a game up here,” said Head Coach Tim Landis. “Every aspect of our team helped us win this
game. Even though we had trouble scoring when we got in the red zone, the offense had some long drives
that ate up the clock. The special teams play was just spectacular.”

With one game remaining in the season, Davidson has a chance to equal last year’s marks of eight wins and
seven consecutive triumphs to end the season. With 15 triumphs in the last two seasons, the Wildcats continue to stretch
their school record for wins in a two-year span. Davidson will have to defeat another I-AA non-scholarship program to do
it, however, as Austin Peay comes to town for the first meeting between the two schools. Game time is set
for 1:30 on Senior Day in which the school will thank the most-victorious class to ever graduate from Davidson for
its four years of service and dedication to the Wildcats football program.

Notes: Ryan’s twin brother, Corey, moved ahead of Williams on the all-time receiving yardage list with a 28-yard reception on
a fourth-and-22. Corey now has exactly 1,100 yards, pushing him into eighth place and ahead of Williams’ 1,089 yards... Davidson
keeps amazing by blocking more and more kicks. The ‘Cats now have 13 blocks on the season, nearly double last
year’s total of seven... Ferguson needs just three points and two touchdowns to break the school career records of 198
points and 33 TDs... Hanks missed field goals from 30 and 42 yards, his first two misses in eight attempts.

Wildcats on the links again
By Dave Moncure, Staff Writer

In spite of stormy weather and rigorous academic demands, the Wildcat golf team still posted two above-average rounds in the
Davidson Invitational at the Birkdale Golf Club this past weekend. One of the major setbacks heading into the Parents’ Weekend
tournament was the loss of a few key players because of class conflicts. It is always tough for the golfers
to balance academics with their time on the links, especially since they usually miss one or two days of classes
for a given tournament. As the academic semester nears a close, it becomes even harder for the golfers to give
up those precious class days to compete in tournaments. However, losing a few starters for the past two tournaments has
allowed other golfers a chance to shine. As senior captain Aaron Watt explained, “It’s been tough not being able to
put our best players out there every week, but it has been positive because it has gotten a lot of
other guys experience.”

The Birkdale tournament was a good example of many guys who normally would not start getting a chance to play.
Davidson even entered two teams into the tournament since it was being played in nearby Huntersville. The first Wildcat team
was led by Watt, who finished with Davidson’s lowest individual score for the tournament. His two-round score of 153 included
a solid 2-over-par 74 on the first day of play. He tied for twelfth overall in the individual standings as
well. The other golfers who played on Davidson’s first team included Frank Walker (two-day score of 159), Ben Friedell (160),
Tyler Reed (163), and Will Smoak (174). Walker tied for 25th in the overall individual standings. Davidson’s second team was
composed of Mark Pustay, Jeff Ramsden, Evan McCormick, Adam Norris, and Morgan Croney, who all played well.

Overall, the Wildcat golfers competed extremely well under the circumstances. As Watt said, “this is the toughest course we play
all semester.” Birkdale is also a very long golf course, which raises the scores slightly, too. Referring to the Birkdale
tournament field, Coach Mark added that “compared to past years, this was the best overall field ever.” The weather was
another factor that the Wildcats struggled against throughout the tournament. It rained a considerable amount after the first round of
play, causing the course to be wet and muddy the second day. Also, the golfers had to battle 20-30 mph
winds the second day, which contributed to the increase in everyone’s second-day score.

Davidson’s last tournament of the fall is Nov. 8-9 in Charleston, S.C., and the golfers are very optimistic about ending
the fall season on a high note. “There is really good chemistry on this team,” said Watt. It is that
togetherness which can help Davidson finish atop the Charleston Southern Fall Invitational field. The fall season has been a great
experience for this young golf team, and according to Mark, “the spring season will be exciting.” The team is looking
forward to Scott Shupe, Sean Davidson, and Austin Zeigler returning from abroad and bringing more experience to the spring tournaments.
