THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Charlotte’s alternative to the typical club and bar scene”
“real issues...real life...real loud”

Date: 10-19-1999
Time: 7:17pm
Atmosphere: Dark & Loud
People: Like you and Me
Purpose: Connection

theFuture...
10/26 Third Day
11/4 Edge Night
11/16 Edge Night

EdgeNights are the weekly nights at the Edge and consist of...
REAL ISSUES - Relevant talks about Life and God
REAL LIFE - Community with Authentic People
REAL LOUD - A Kickin' Band

"All about life...All about people...All about God"
theEdge: is here... are you ready?
www.charlottemetro.com

SPORTS
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

JUST THINKING OUT LOUD...
On the road again?
Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Late in the first quarter of this year’s homecoming game against Guilford, a Quaker linebacker delivered a punishing blow to Wildcat quarterback Shaun Tyrance. As the junior captain rose to his feet, a look of perplexity adorned his face. Standing there on the sideline, I could feel a similar look of disorientation creep upon my own face. For as the captain of our men in black was thrown to the grass, I heard an ovation swell from the crowd at the game. I turned around, and saw a contingency of fans in Guilford maroon on their feet, waving pom pons, cheering their beloved Quakers. I could have sworn this was a home game.

As I stood gazing across the sixty-five yards of recently-dedicated grass, I should have felt a sense of Wildcat pride during our Homecoming game. Instead, I felt as if I was in hostile territory. It’s a good thing the Wildcats on the sideline were cheering when their teammate Eric Ferguson burst into the end zone to give the Cats a 6-0 lead, because the murmuring from the student section was a relative silence compared to the obnoxious roar that bellowed from the Guilford delegation subsequent to each play that fell in their team’s favor.

My depression at the lackluster nature of our crowd was reprieved for a while during half time, when a recently-arrived student body cheered the coronation of a particularly deserving homecoming king and queen. Dozens of pairs of dark sunglasses turned toward the field (for perhaps the first time all game) and showed at least a semblance of school pride and spirit. But my own spirits sunk again when Jon DeBord was greeted with but a few lone cheers as he led the ’Cats onto the field to convene the second half.

Davidson will never, of course, match a Notre Dame or University of Tennessee in sheer attendance numbers. But that’s not the point. Davidson students are renowned for being inspirational, enthusiastic go-getters—people that make things happen. We cherish our relative anonymity. We pride ourselves in blossoming in this tiny institution and taking the world by storm. As legend has it, Davidson’s athletic squad was first dubbed the Wildcats by an Atlanta newspaper, commenting on our similarities to this untamed feline that is small on size but huge in heart.

Remember last season’s basketball game against the College of Charleston? A 20-year NCAA veteran coach with one of the best records in the business described our very own Belk Arena as “the best atmosphere I’ve ever seen.” High words of praise from Charleston head coach John Klesse, whose team has recently paced the hardwood at Duke, Chapel Hill, Maryland, and in the Big Dance. The feeling in last January’s game was the most inspiring thing I’ve seen in my short tenure.As a Wildcat fan, we miss out on a major source of collegiate pride, fraternity, and identity when we kick back at an athletic contest and fail to recreate that atmosphere. A pacifistic crowd is understandable during a mid-week croquet contest, but it’s flat-out embarrassing at our Homecoming football game. Thoughts, comments, responses welcome... mianderson@davidson.edu

Jake Harrington

Golf Swings into Fall Season

By Davin Moncure
Staff Writer

To most students on campus, October means fall settling in, football season peaking, and the Davidson workload taking its toll on stress levels. To sixteen Wildcats, however, the beginning of October also means the start of the 1999-2000 golf season. Led by head coach Joe Mark, the Wildcat Golf Team’s fall season began Oct. 4 when the team traveled to the UNC Wilmington Invitational for a two-day tournament in which Davidson finished eighth out of thirteen teams. Ben Friedell was the Wildcats’ top finisher at 6-over-par, and Frank Walker III finished close behind with an 8-over-par. The top two finishers for Davidson were both freshmen, leaving high hopes in Coach Mark’s mind about this season. Mark and assistant coach Bryce Waller are looking forward to the competition that those two freshmen will provide for the team this season.

During Fall Break, while most of the student body was relaxing, the golf team was teeing off at the Presbyterian Invitational in South Carolina. The Wildcats finished fourth out of sixteen teams in the two-day tournament, which was shortened by poor playing conditions. Nonetheless, the Wildcats’ great team play impressed Mark, especially on the second day when the team shot the lowest round of the entire field. Sophomore Oliver Cross played especially well in this tournament, finishing second out of 86 competitors with an incredible 2-under-par.

The Wildcat golf team played the first two tournaments of the season without three of its top players—Sean Davidson, Scott Shupe, and Austin Zeigler. The three juniors, who are studying abroad this semester, have been starters since their freshman year, so their loss this fall is obviously an obstacle the team must overcome. However, Cross, Friedell, Walker, and senior captain Aaron Watt have all stepped up their play early in the season to account for the loss of three starters. When Davidson, Shupe, and Zeigler return from their trips abroad, the competition within the team should be tough, but it should also provide for a promising spring season. As Mark commented, the return of the three starters will “add much-needed depth” to the team’s play.

It is also important to note that the only senior on the team is Watt. “This is a very young team with a lot of capabilities,” Mark stated. The 1999-2000 season will give this young team great experience for the future as well. The upcoming Davidson Fall Invitational Oct. 31-Nov. 3 at nearby Birkdale Golf Club in Huntersville has the golfers excited, as they will face two teams and some players that usually do not start will have an opportunity to shine. Mark’s goal for the ’Cats this year is to make the NCAA regional tournament in the spring, but the team faces several hurdles ahead of them, including winning the Southern Conference Championship in the spring. Also, the road to the NCAAs doesn’t get any smoother when Davidson plays in perhaps the toughest golf district in the country, District III North, alongside the larger ACC universities. However, youth and stellar ability will aid the Cats in their quest to reach the NCAA tournament.

Next, the Wildcats will be swinging the irons at the Radford Invitational Oct. 17-19 in Draper Valley, Va.