THE DAVIDSONIAN

Where does the money go? seems to be a good question to ask these days of Davidson College. Reminder: our school colors remain red and black. To remind students, new brick pathways rumored to cost $100,000 enclose Chambers Lawn. Continuing the red and black color scheme, the long overdue blazing red track and squat brick columns combine for a fiery new Wildcat stadium. The black asphalt Guest House turnaround replaces a few stately trees formerly included in our campus arboretum; the eight Guest House rooms undoubtedly cause a parking problem.

As a tour guide, I walk the breadth of the campus weekly, and I honestly do not think we need more paths, especially expensive brick paths. It is a beautiful campus, wonderfully kept up by rampant club car drivers. The lovely new paths will, I’m sure, endure, but do we need them? $100,000 covers the building cost of dormitory janitorial closets and provides those yellowish containers sloshing murky liquid a home. The money also covers newly painted bathroom ceilings, red if necessary; paint could eliminate peeling ceiling debris the way it now conceals the 1st Cannon kitchen mural. The amount funds remodeled bathrooms, a four-year-old plan. With less than a quarter of $100,000 we could have a strong campus FM radio station, not playing classical, that broadcasts to the entire campus and Charlotte.

Last week's Davidsonian issue sponsored the letter H; will the next issue sponsor the colors red and black? Look around you and see what your tuition money has done — just follow the red brick roads.

Kristen Taylor ’01

Here comes that point in your day when you just cannot work any longer. Everyone experiences it. This is the point at which the words begin to blur. You then find your mind straying from the subject at hand; involuntarily skipping from Tony Blair’s “Third Way” to Frank Sinatra’s “My Way.” Wouldn't it be great if they did it “my way?” Then I wouldn’t have to eat at the Commons tonight. I wonder what is for dinner. I can always avoid the cafeteria and go to the Union for a small bite. This mosquito bite is really bothering me, I need to get some Benadryl tomorrow. Tomorrow is Friday. Friday night should be fun; there will probably be another lame party at Rich. I wish I was rich, then I could have all the girls I could ever want following me around... Girls...

Yes, it seems every time my mind happens to stray... where does it wind up? Girls. Is it my fault? Am I to blame? Back to the subject at hand. By the time your vision blurs and “My Way” begins to ring in the background, it is time for a break. Lucky for you, many of your hallmates are suffering from the same dilemma, although I hesitate to assume their affinity for Sinatra. The residents of 3rd Watts have come up with an interesting and enlightening diversion to preserve their sanity on those long Thursday nights. The cure for their ailment? Hall Golf.

Hall Golf is a wonderful combination of patience and excitement, dexterity, and athletic prowess. Only the best compete in this mix of skills, chills, and thrills. Yet, despite all of these required skills, the game is easily played. First, you need a hall; with the exception of those poor bastards in the Senior Apartments, this shouldn’t be hard to find. Next, obtain a putter or low iron, golf ball, and a plastic cup. You are set. It should be noted that this game improves incredibly with both competitors and spectators. Place the cup on its side at one end of the hall and proceed with putter and ball in hand to the other side. Have you guessed what is coming next? Yes, attempt to place the ball into the cup. As easy as this process may sound, it is remarkably difficult. It is especially difficult if you are playing in a hall that has a buckle running through it; say a couple inches to the left of center (3rd Watts).

The crowd falls silent as Andrew steps up to the green floor tile. He places the neon yellow Pinnacle Gold number 4 on the ground, rotating it slightly so that the “pinnacle” faces him. His breathing becomes regular and controlled as he takes his stance, putter in hand. His feet are together as he bends. The only sound is his breathing, regular, methodical, controlled. He inhales as the putter lifts off the ground and slowly arches away from the ball, as if fearing contact. Then with one powerful exhale, he releases his pent-up frustration at the world: the hours of reading and girls, the glares of professors and girls, the hamburgers at the Commons and, oh yes, girls. Contact occurs and the ball flies forward. A little to the right, then sloping down to the left... Closer, closer... As the ball races towards its goal, the crowd breaks its crystalline silence and becomes a roar. “Gooooooaaaaallllll!”

Editor's Note: Andrew is currently being sued by the estate of Frank Sinatra for use of “My Way” without proper authorization and royalty payment.

**Real Editor's Note: Andrew is also being sued for libel for unauthorized use of Editor's name.

Andrew T. MacDonald ’03

A few months after I entered the 9th grade, construction began for a freestanding library at the north end of my high school’s campus, near the spot where I waited for my mom to pick me up every afternoon. The spot soon became littered with rubble, then bricks and cement, and eventually, as I began 10th grade, it became the Hara Library. Seeing this new building for the first time, I tried to remember what the spot had looked like before. I realized then, that remembering my high school’s campus as it was when I first set foot on it would be almost impossible. It had begun changing the moment I arrived.

My first semester at Davidson in the fall of 1996, I began to think similar thoughts when the construction of the Watson Life Science complex got underway. Now, as Davidson prepares itself for yet another facelift and I embark upon my senior year, I am again plagued by the thought that when I walk across the stage at graduation, the Davidson that sees me off will not be the same as that which welcomed me three years ago. Though I admit I suffer from premature alumniNostalgia, I write this article out of concern for Davidson that stems not from the physical changes the campus will undergo this year, but from the changes in community atmosphere that those changes might imply. I fear for the quaint and friendly community that first invited me to be a part of this institution—the small campus sincerity typified in a building like Lingle Manor. I fear that when Lingle falls, that sincerity might fall along with it. Don’t get me wrong, I am not a reactionary. In truth, I am quite happy about the wave of technological advances that has overtaken Davidson these last three years. I understand the various reasons for which new buildings must be built, why old ones must be remodeled or, as in Lingle’s sad case, torn down. Davidson is growing. The Davidson campus and the resources it provides must grow along with it. Our college is finally getting the national recognition it deserves, and our campus must live up to the expectations and responsibilities that go along with that. All of this is good, and yet I worry that in our rush to rank Davidson among the nation’s top colleges, we will forget what sets Davidson apart from them. Personal relationships are the basis on which Davidson College stands. From the time we drive on campus and upperclass students help us move in (out of eagerness to meet and welcome us if not eagerness to move our furniture), to when a professor invites us over to his or her house for an end-of-the-semester party, we thrive on the closeness of the campus community. The bigger the campus gets, the harder it may be for us to keep that closeness tightly knit. Davidson’s integrity lies not where the faculty, staff, and student body work and reside but in the community those individuals make up. Spots like the Well, Elm Row and Oak Row, Sparrow’s Nest, and Lingle Manor (until its departure into college housing heaven) remind us that despite its lofty goals and high academic standards, Davidson is a small school at heart. That smallness is necessary if Davidson is to remain “a residential community of scholars” where students develop “humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service” (from the course catalog). The students that enter Davidson next year with a new state-of-the-art Student Union and dormitory will no doubt have the best that technology and a few wealthy alumni have to offer. They will not suffer from overcrowded dormitories, long lines at the Union Café, and rundown rooms and offices for student organizations. Nevertheless, they will have never known that little house on the corner across from Rich. I sincerely hope their college experience is not the lesser for it.

Alexandra Obregon ’00

---

Bitter! Table for One.

Welcome back to school everyone! And to all the new freshfolk, HOW THE HELL ARE YA’? I just wanted to take the time to get something off my manly, and sometimes smelly chest. The first few weeks of my “experience” at college were RUINED by a long-distance relationship... a hometown honey... a back-home beauty... y’all know what I’m talking about. Anyway, I hate to be rude and tell you this and shock y’all, but IT WILL NOT WORK!! All those people, your friends, your books about college, even your parents (don’t you hate it!) were right! Long distance has a one-percent success rate at college. It is just the way it hit the fan. Now, being that everyone at Davidson, except maybe me, is on the genius-level, here are some REAL LIFE examples of why long distance never works. Out of my ENTIRE hall, more than 90% of us had girlfriends, by the end of the year it was down to NONE... zippo... nada... turn right and head to the DUMP. That’s just the way it goes y’all. There is nothing that can be done about it and nothing you can do will stop it, it’s a fact of life... you know, like the fact that the Rams... no matter what city they play in, will always suck. It’s a fact. St. Louis... they suck, Los Angeles—they suck. EVEN the Panthers beat them... only once, but they beat them. And the point I’m trying so vainly to make here is not that love sucks... it’s not so bad (although it sucks for me). It’s that y’all should end the relationship now before it’s too late and you hate her and she hates you. Believe me folks, I've walked down the road and it’s a long dark road covered in horse$#&@. If you don’t believe me, I'll tell you two separate stories, with the names changed to protect the innocent and keep some folks out of jail. First up, is a darling friend of mine who had a hometown hunk. Now I love this girl to death, but as soon as she hit the campus... she was out the door and ready to go. She couldn’t resist the temptation of all these college males I guess. True story! You see, the man ain’t around and the home fire is burning, and there are lots of local volunteer firefighters, if you get my ill-advised metaphor, to put out the flame. My second is a combination of two actually. There was this good friend of mine and he worshipped the ground his H.H. walked on. He thought her [expletive] didn’t stink, y’all got me? And after 6 MONTHS at school and numerous road trips to visit her, she decided she “wanted to find herself” and the world-famous: “It’s not you, it’s me!” Which guys, that really means... IT’S YOU! And she promptly ripped my... umm, I mean... my buddy's heart out with a wooden spoon (spoons hurt more... I saw it in a movie) and jumped up and down on it and sent him into a drunken coma later that night. I’m not trying to be rude, or mean, or pessimistic: I had listened to EVERYONE and their mother’s advice. I’m sure I have pissed someone off, who believes that their romance can work out, but in case you are feeling lucky enough to win that Georgia lotto, take my advice and punt before it’s too late. Because, for the first time ever, y'all got a clean slate to work with and nobody knows you... don’t waste time you could be spending with new friends wasting away on old flames. And that’s all I have to say about that.

Jimmy Burford ’02