THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

While the Wildcats have rolled to nine wins in eleven games, the name “Davidson” is gaining some national recognition. The Lady ‘Cats rank #19 in Division I for scoring offense, with over 80 points a game. “Our offense is going to be there,” said Filar. “We've got so many weapons.”

The team’s three seniors are leading the way in that category. Jamie Brown leads the squad with 15.5 points per game, Kerry Brown is averaging 12.5, and Jessica Montrella is averaging 12.4. Jamie Brown is shooting 54% from the floor, 40% from behind the 3-point arc, and 80% from the free throw line.

Jen O’Brien is yet again raising eyebrows across the nation, ranking 8th amongst Division I players in assists (104), and 12th in steals (53). Her 11 steals against Sewanee on December 8 mark the nation’s second-highest one-game total. O’Brien struggled a bit statistically early in the season, but returned to form in early December. “Her confidence skyrocketed,” said guard JoAnne Hassel. “It just took a little time for her game to come out. She’s a big player, and everyone knows it this year. Last year she kind of came out of nowhere, and now the target is on her, and everyone knows it. She’s getting used to that new role, and she’ll be great.”

Another Wildcat, freshman Janna Magette, has also caught the attention of Southern Conference opponents. Magette opened this season red-hot and ascended into among the top ten nationally for three-point percentage. The “Hoover Hangwoman,” as the Hoover High School graduate has been dubbed by radio personality Frank Santore, is bombing 3-point shots at a clip of 42%, and is averaging almost eight points per game as the team’s sixth man.

Montrella guides ‘Cats to 7 wins in 9

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Davidson 89, University of the South (Sewanee) 41
December 8
Belk Arena

With stifling full-court pressure, the Wildcats jumped out to a 10-0 lead in the first five minutes of the game. Thirteen different players saw five minutes or more of floor time in the half, and eleven different Davidson athletes scored. Sophomore Jessica Heath led the charge with seven and Katy Kamp, Jen O’Brien, and JoAnne Hassel each added six points.

“I think we learned again tonight that pretty much everybody can have a role on our team on the floor,” said senior Kerry Brown. “Anybody out there can play and score and help the team out, it doesn’t just have to be the starters. We have a lot of scorers on our team.”

Davidson 71, College of Charleston 52
December 20
Belk Arena

So much for hospitality. College of Charleston made their first trip to Belk Arena since joining the Southern Conference this season on December 20, but the Wildcats were not about to put out welcome mats. Senior Jessica Montrella racked up 17 points and Katy Kamp added 12 as Davidson rolled to their fifth straight victory. The Brown twins, Jamie and Kerry, paced the team with 6 boards apiece.

“Montrella is having an excellent senior year,” beamed Coach John Filar. “She’s having the type of senior year that you hope your seniors have. She’s playing with a lot more confidence, and she’s in great shape physically. She worked hard on the weights this past summer, and it’s paid off for her. Jess has been as consistent if not more consistent than anyone all season.”

Davidson 80, East Tennessee State 67
December 30
Belk Arena

After returning from a much-abbreviated holiday break, the girls went back to work with another solid victory. The win marked their sixth consecutive, and sealed a perfect 6-0 in the month of December.

“You always worry about how you're going to respond after exams,” Filar said. “ETSU is among the top teams in the conference, but we did a good job of making some good runs and then pulling away from them in the end.”

Davidson 91, Western Carolina 73
January 4
Belk Arena

All hail Jen O’Brien. The pre-season favorite for Southern Conference Player of the Year staked yet another claim for the honors with a spectacular performance marked by 25 points, 7 assists, 6 rebounds, 4 steals, and a solid 9-10 from the free-throw line. O’Brien’s effort was complemented by double-digit scoring totals from each of the other four starters, led by Montrella’s 18.

“That’s the way it should be,” predicted Filar last October. “We should have anywhere from five to six players in double-digit scoring on any given night.” The Wildcats went on a 10-0 run over the last 2:26 to seal the victory and the seventh notch for the win streak.

Georgia Southern 86, Davidson 81
January 6
Statesboro, Georgia

“This was a great women’s basketball game,” recalled Coach Filar. “It was unfortunate that we lost, but it was a great game. We were two very talented teams that love to run and get up and down the court.”

The Brown twins contributed one of their best collective efforts of the season. Jamie notched a double-double with 23 points and 13 rebounds in 29 minutes. Kerry added 19 points in 26 minutes. The team’s third senior, Jessica Montrella, contributed another solid game, with 10 points, 5 rebounds, and 5 assists. But Georgia Southern scored the final six points of the contest to emerge victorious.and snap the Wildcat winning streak.

UNC Greensboro 90, Davidson 79
January 9
Greensboro, North Carolina

Kerry Brown’s 23 points were not enough to rescue Davidson from back-to-back defeats, and her Wildcats fell to 3-3 in conference competition. Greensboro’s Melinda Goodson, ChoRhonda Gwaltney, and Samika Foster combined for 63 points and 21 rebounds as UNC-G rolled to 5-1 in Southern Conference play. Three different Wildcats fouled out, adding to the frustration of the afternoon.

“It was the only disappointing game since we’ve been back,” said John Filar. “We went up there and were another team. We preach how often we want to be ‘us’ and we didn’t do that against them.”

Davidson 88, Furman 71
January 11
Belk Arena

Filar’s Wildcats seemed to sufficiently resolve their identity crisis in time for the return of the general student population last Monday night. The girls exploded for a Duke-esque 19-0 run in the waning minutes of the first half, effectively slamming the door on Furman’s Lady Paladins. The students in the stands erupted with a frenzied show of support for the surging ‘Cats.

“It was great Monday night, it was fantastic,” said Filar. “(The crowd) just picks us up, our intensity multiplies big time as the crowd gets into it.”

In the pre-season, Jen O’Brien commented that, “A lot of us have been working on footwork and quickness, to be able to keep up the defensive intensity.” It’s paying off in big ways. The Wildcat defense smothered Furman, who at one point missed 16 straight shots. Those missed shots converted into a multitude of fast-break points that enabled Davidson to pull away down the stretch. Jamie Brown notched yet another double-double (21 points, 12 rebounds) on the night, while Jessica Montrella added 18 points, Katy Kamp contributed 16, and Kerry Brown pitched in 14. O’Brien led the team with a remarkable 13 assists as she continues to climb the national leaderboard.

Sophomore Meagan Gleason suited up Monday, rejoining her teammates after a semester away. The sharpshooter and ball-handler will bring not only fresh talent, but an enthusiastic, uplifting spirit that should pay great dividends down the stretch.

Another injection of talent this semester will come from the increasing play of freshman Leah Uhernik. After seeing her in the first few practices of the season, Coach Filar praised, “Leah’s what I thought she was when we recruited her. Leah is going to be a huge asset to this program, all she needs is some time. For not having touched a basketball really since February, (she’s doing) really well. Our fans are gonna come to really thoroughly enjoy how she plays.” Three months later, the coach has only grown fonder of his rising star. “She’s getting stronger every game as the season goes on, and you're going to see her playing an increasing role in every game. She can come off the bench and hit 3’s, she can shoot off the dribble, and she’s a very good rebounder. She’s a very tough girl.”

Davidson 81, Appalachian State 66
January 16
Belk Arena

Davidson and ASU entered the contest with identical conference records of 4-3, but the ‘Cats prevailed in decisive fashion in front of 727 fans at Belk Arena on Saturday. Jessica Montrella led all scorers with 21 points, and the 6’2” senior added 7 rebounds to her name. Jen O’Brien showed off yet another facet of her game, leading the team with 8 rebounds. Davidson only led by two at the half, but a second-half run surged the team to a 15-point victory.

“I was pleased,” expressed Filar. “As a coaching staff, we consider ASU as one of the better teams in the conference. They have a lot of weapons, they have an inside game and an outside game. I’m pleased to come away with a victory.”

The coach also expressed satisfaction that his bench was able to rescue the team from some serious foul trouble. Jamie Brown, Kerry Brown, O’Brien, and Montrella each accumulated four hacks on the afternoon. Two freshmen, Janna Magette and Leah Uhernik, came off the bench to absorb most of the blow. Magette saw 29 minutes of floor time and Uhernik saw 14. In that time, Magette racked up 15 points, 3 assists, and 2 rebounds, while Uhernik accrued 6 points and 6 rebounds.

Magette impressed the coaching staff and her teammates with some new moves on the floor. The notorious 3-point threat put the ball on the floor with confidence, creating some great scoring opportunities for both herself and her teammates.

“We know that that’s the next step for her to grow as a player—to put the ball on the floor and not just be a long-range threat,” said Filar. “Other coaches watch tapes and they’re ready for her. You hear them screaming ‘Shooter, #20’ every time Janna steps on the floor. But she’s growing a lot as a player, she’s making herself more multi-dimensional.”

The coach also praised the freshman from Alabama for her performance on the other end of the court. “Defensively, Janna’s looking better. That’s one of her goals. That’s one of the areas of her game that she’s trying to improve. She’s taken some pride in that, and she’s pushing herself to become a better defensive player. We’re telling people when they come off the bench that they have to have that same defensive intensity our starters have.”