___
THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1999

“Way down yonder on the Chattahoochee...”

Davidson Crew completes most successful season ever

By STEPHANIE KOHLER
Guest Writer

Sleeping in for these folks means setting the alarm for 7 or 8 a.m. And now they can. After a
grueling semester of early morning practices and intense training, the Davidson Crew ended a record-breaking season of head races (5000m)
in mid-November, participating in Head of the Chattahoochee in Gainesville, GA (Nov. 6) and the Head of the South in
Augusta, GA (Nov. 13). The Crew made a strong showing at both regattas, with exceptional results among small schools, especially
considering Davidson has a non-funded, club program.

“Davidson Crew is stepping it up, and for the first time is beginning to show schools in the south that
it’s going to give them some competition worth talking about,” said Aaron Patton. “We were close to all Southern Conference
schools, if not beating them, in the events we entered.”

The Head of the Chattahoochee is the most prestigious regatta in the southeast, and, after the Head of the Charles
in Boston, MA, the second-largest regatta in the country.

Photo courtesy of Stephanie Kohler
Junior Aaron Patton with his gold medal from the men’s club singles race at the Head of the South regatta.

Three other Southern Conference schools also raced at the two regattas: Furman, UT Chattanooga, and College of Charleston. Non-SoCon schools
and clubs that raced included University of Central Florida, Clemson, Georgia Tech, Duke, and UNC Chapel Hill. Many of these
teams have some of the best varsity crew programs in the country. Duke has twelve scholarship athletes on its team,
and UNC is ranked as one of the top five schools in the country. Clemson also has many scholarship women.

“Getting to the point that we reached this season took a lot of training, which had to coincide with perseverance,
devotion, and cooperation,” freshman Monica Siegenthaler said.

The Davidson men’s team earned the first gold medals in its history at its November regattas. The team agrees that
there is room for improvement and has high hopes for a promising spring season of indoor erg races and 2000m
sprints.

“For such a young program, we are becoming better and better known and have accomplished a lot in such a
short time,” said varsity coach Joanna Flanagan, a Senior Vice President with Bank of America.

This semester Davidson raced six 4-plus boats, half novice and half varsity. Athletes with less than a year’s collegiate experience
row at the novice level. Crew president Adair Prater and Patton, the secretary, coached the novices this semester.

“Five kilometer races are interesting in strategy and endurance due to their long, winding courses,” Patton explained. “You cannot simply
infer that those who row the hardest will win a head race. It is a combined effort of strategic course,
shaving seconds or even minutes off a time, and more importantly the ability to increase speed throughout the race, especially
when overcoming other crews or when another crew starts to gain on you.”

The varsity men, composed of Reggie McKoy ’02, Doug Penhallegon ’00, Matt Johnston ’00, John Potter ’00, and coxswain Michelle
Lim ’02, had strong races under 22 minutes at both regattas. At the Chattahoochee, they beat all three of the
other SoCon boats and at the South they beat College of Charleston.

The novice women also raced impressively. At the Chattahoochee, Diana Chemotti ’03, Siegenthaler ’03, Natalie Eft ’02, Emily Chaffin ’03,
and coxswain Elaine Baker ’03 competed. They did not race against any SoCon boats, but their 25:27.6 time was four
minutes faster than several teams, including Duke, UNC, and Clemson. They finished in the top half of all the novice
women boats. At the South, with Erin Hudson ’02 rowing in the place of Siegenthaler, they finished seventh out of
twenty with a time of 23:20. Again, the squad finished before a Duke boat and before two boats from College
of Charleston. The nearest SoCon boat finished more than two minutes behind them.

“We have come fromhaving absolutely no knowledge of crew to being a competitive team,” Hudson said. “It took a lot
of time at Baker, a lot of internal drive to make ourselves get out of bed that early in the
morning and respect for our coaches to follow their direction and take authority and criticism from our peers.”

The varsity women competed in two 4-plus shells in an 8-plus race at both regattas. The 8-plus shell, composed of
Tiffany Smith ’02, Ellen Freeman ’02, Allison Ong ’02, Julia Chemotti ’00, Sarah Muffelman ’00, Tiffany Lautensleger ’02, Emily Clark
’01, Amelia Fuller ’01, and coxswain Stephanie Kohler ’01, finished immediately behind Furman and before College of Charleston at both
regattas. The Davidson women also beat the UTC 8-plus boat at the Chattahoochee. Muffelman, the team’s vice-president, believes that the
women’s technique still needs work, but agrees that the team has made tremendous strides.

The varsity women’s boat of Muffelman, Chemotti, Clark, Fuller, and Kohler had impressive results at both regattas. At both races,
their times of 24:09.2 (Chattahoochee) and 21:59.45 (South) beat all of the SoCon schools attending. The nearest SoCon boat at
either regatta was well over a minute behind them at the finish. Although the women’s varsity failed to finish before
either of the Duke boats at the Chattahoochee, they beat the Duke JV boat at the South. “Our races felt
together,” said Muffelman.

The 24:39.42 race of the junior varsity women, composed of Freeman, Ong, Lautensleger, Smith, and coxswain Kate Livingston ’02, beat
UTC at the Head of the South. “We really came together at the end of the season and everything flowed,”
said Smith. “This season was the best of the three that I have had.”

The novice men performed exceptionally well. Although no SoCon schools competed in their race at the Chattahoochee, the No. 2
novice men’s boat, composed of Robert Zsoldos ’02, Charlie Babcock ’03, Fernando Valles ’03, Webster Harrison ’03, and coxswain Alison
Shea ’03, finished more than two minutes ahead of the second Duke boat. At the South they finished 19 seconds
behind UTC but before College of Charleston by more than two and a half minutes. “The most rewarding part of
the race at the Head of the South was when we passed our first boat,” Zsoldos said. “Then seeing that
we had improved our time from the week before made the race seem even sweeter.”

The No. 1 novice men, composed of Jason Lake ’03, Luke O’Hara ’03, Peter Campbell ’03, Ryan Auster ’03, and
coxswain Jamie Causey ’03, placed fifth in their race at the Head of the Chattahoochee, well ahead of two boats
from UTC. At South, they won a gold medal in their race with a time of 19:14.13, beating UTC, College
of Charleston, Georgia Tech, UCF, Emory, Clemson, and Tulane. The Georgia Tech boat that placed second in the race lost
the gold medal to the Davidson men by more than 33 seconds. “I think the key factor in winning at
the Head of the South was a kind of psychologically twisted mental toughness that let us go faster in the
middle mile,” O’Hara explained. “Jamie kept us moving, telling us that an imaginary boat was moving on us.”

“We had two incredible coaches who knew what they were talking about and pushed us the whole way,” Campbell said.

Also at Head of the South, Aaron Patton ’01 borrowed a singles boat from the U.S. National Team and earned
a gold medal in the men’s club singles race with a time of 21:33.22, thirty seconds better than the second-place
finisher.

Fall intramural championships
Tournament brackets and photos courtesy of Lee Jones.

Moonrakers
Moonrakers
Team Twinkle Toes
Warriors
KA
KA
Moonrakers
Fall '99 Small Field Soccer
Team Twinkle Toes
Team Twinkle Toes
Warriors
Team Twinkle Toes
KA

Small Field Soccer champs, the Moonrakers
