THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

New Richardson Field facilities unveiled

Story continued from front page

With the removal of the east stands of Richardson Stadium which open up to Baker Sports Complex, Vagt said the new track will be “more in the hub of activity on campus, with the building of the new Union.” Vagt expressed gratitude to both Belk and Smith for their generous contributions to the new track and field project.

A captain of the women’s track team, Yolanda Kirby '00, also spoke briefly. She had been discouraged with the track when she first came to Davidson, and said, “It will be nice to say I run track at Davidson and really mean it.” A member of the football team, Eric Ferguson ’00, also expressed gratitude for the new field. A former Davidson track and cross country runner, Angus McBride ’59, said “the new track is so smooth, it almost feels like you would be cheating on it.” He also said, “Hopefully now more alumni will come back for home track meets.”

For the ribbon-cutting ceremony, a red ribbon was run down the track by members of the men’s and women’s track teams. Men’s track and cross country coach, Gary Andrew, remarked, “This is one of the best days I’ve ever experienced here at Davidson, coming to see this beautiful facility and meet the donors who made it possible. This means so much to the men and women who participate in track at Davidson. It’s gorgeous. I can’t wait to have our first meet here.”

October 7, 1936, Archive

World peace advocates

Story continued from previous page

and in the end was approved by a vote of 130-4 with 17 abstentions. The treaty it created established rules for deep sea bed mining, and a 200-mile zone into the sea for national sovereignty over mineral rights (exclusive of a 12-mile zone for passage of international shipping and scientific research). “But the main achievement was the creation of an agreed-upon law of the sea, a thick book that everyone around the world can consult in cases of alleged violations,” said Ralph Levering.

Miriam Levering concluded her work on the treaty in 1983 when it became evident that the Reagan administration opposed it. She then worked with former law-of-the-sea negotiator Elliot Richardson on a successor organization, the Council on Ocean Law. Miriam began writing her memoirs of the conference in the mid-1980s, and Ralph Levering worked with her on that project for two years before her death in 1991. Sam Levering died in 1993.

For the past few years, Ralph Levering has been researching the subject because a breakdown can lead to serious international tension. The U.S. votedagainst the treaty because the Reagan administration believed its provisions for seabed mining presented unnecessary socialistic concessions to Third World countries at the expense of nations that could actually carry out the work. Further negotiations on those issues were conducted, and the fall of communism deflated some of the socialistic ideals held by Third World countries. The U.S. under the Clinton administration finally signed the treaty in 1994, but it languishes to this day in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee where chairman Jesse Helms refuses to release it to the full Senate for ratification.

“The ultimate outcome was favorable to my parents because negotiations succeeded in the historian’s point of view, and the final book is a combination of her subjective view and his more objective observations.”

“The book demonstrates what ordinary people can do,” concludes Ralph Levering. “My father always said most people tend to give up too quickly. They stop at ‘Poop-Out Hill’ and turn around. The ones who get things done are those who stick with it past that point and get to the top of the mountain. The greatest value of the book is to inspire others to explore areas where they might make a difference.”

This is Levering’s sixth book. His previous works deal with the role of public opinion and the news media in U.S. foreign policy, and with the Cold War. At Davidson he teaches classes on the Vietnam War, recent American history and foreign policy, and Latin American history.

ARCHITECTS’ GYMNASIUM

1937 sketch

January 20, 1937

SGA Elections coming soon
By Lauren DANIEL
Staff Writer

The lists will go up Tuesday around 10 p.m., and another crop of senators will enter the Student Government Association (SGA). The positions available are six freshmen senators and six independent senators who are upperclassmen and not socially affiliated. Within the freshmen class senator elections, the candidate with the most votes will become class president. Four sophomore positions, four junior positions, and one senior position are also available for the honor council.

The campaigning restrictions for senators are a spending cap of $15 dollars and no campaigning within 50 yards of the voting areas, Commons and Chambers. Students were also allowed one sheet from the laundry to promote themselves. The honor council was not allowed to campaign for their reputation is what the students are voting on, not on a campaign.

Each senator is required to attend all meetings of two committees, such as the Elections Council, and the Councils on Minority Affairs and Academic Affairs. The senators coordinate class functions such as pizza parties, which were organized jointly last year by the freshmen and sophomore class senators. This year one of the focuses of the committees will be to rewrite the SGA bylaws so as to clear up any ambiguities and correct errors.

The polls will close at 5 p.m. on Tuesday and because of the use of Scantron ballots, winners will not be released immediately. The Elections Committee hopes to expedite the voting process and to increase voter turnout this year, by making voting available through the network. In the elections to come, these advances will most likely be implemented.