THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1999

Davidson events will celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month

By ALEX OBREGON
Staff Writer

In celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, Davidson College will host a series of events highlighting Hispanic culture throughout the month of October. From poetry readings to lectures to movies, the events will feature both the diversity of the culture and its distinct voice on Davidson’s campus.

Davidson enrolls 44 American students of Hispanic descent and 12 international students from Central and South America, and Spain. They bring an important element of cultural awareness to Davidson’s student body of 1,750. The Spanish department includes eight faculty members who teach a wide variety of classes on Hispanic language, literature, and culture.

October’s events are:

October 4: Nelson Orringer, professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature at the University of Connecticut, will speak in English on Spanish writer Federico Garcia Lorca. His lecture, “Myth-Making With the Greeks in Lorca’s Poetry and Theater,” will begin at 4 p.m. in the Home Room of the Union.

October 5: Stephanie Orringer, professor of English at the University of Connecticut, will speak in English on the effects of the Spanish Civil War on that country’s writers. Her talk, entitled “In the Shadow of Civil War: Spain’s Generation of 1927,” begins at 1 p.m. in the Home Room.

October 5: Costa Rican economist Olmar Segura will lead a roundtable discussion in English about Latin America in the new millennium. The discussion begins at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union.

October 6: The Tecum Umani Rural Theater Company of San Ramon, Nicaragua, will present a free Spanish-language performance of “The Lost Paradise” at 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. The play deals with the search for a way to safeguard the earth by the two main characters, Viviana and Viviano, and conveys the many problems faced by peasants in rural Latin America. In addition to the performance, the group will conduct an interactive theater workshop from 4-6 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Union to introduce the techniques of popular theater, a form created to give voice to the concerns of the common people. Participants will also learn about Nicaraguan music and dance.

Established in 1994, Tecum Umani uses theater to raise awareness about social, economic, and gender issues in Latin America. The troupe consists of six actors and director Coco Molinares. They are all Nicaraguans from rural communities and have won top national awards in Nicaragua for their plays about environmental preservation. The group is part of a larger Nicaraguan project, “Communication for Development,” which promotes research, community participation, education, and social awareness through music and theater.

October 13 & 15: The Union Films committee will present “Mi Vida Loca,” a movie about Mexican-American women living in the United States. The screening begins at 9:30 p.m. each evening in the College Union 900 Room. A free dinner, co-sponsored by the Cultural Events committee and the Organization of Latin American Students, will precede Friday’s show.

October 19: A poetry reading by students and faculty will bring literature to the forefront in a more informal way at 8 p.m. in the Union Outpost. Presenters will read their own works in Spanish, as well as works of their favorite Latin-American and Spanish writers.

The events are sponsored by the Organization of Latin American Students, the Spanish Department, the Dean Rusk Program, the Ethnic Studies Department, the Public Lectures Committee, the Cultural Events Committee, and the Dean of Students office. For more information on any of the events, call 892-2456 or 896-6505.

Remembering Christopher Malamisura

By Sern Davis
Arts and Living Editor

Chris had one of the biggest smiles this world has ever seen. He had one of those smiles in which his whole face smiled. Some people called it goofy. It was. But it was also one of the few true smiles in this world. When he smiled, his whole face and his whole soul meant it. That’s why there were so many laughs and smiles in the 900 Room last Sunday night when people from Davidson told stories about Chris. His energy, his happiness, was so undeniably real that the people who knew him couldn’t help but share in it.

During dinner, Chris came to this freshman and introduced himself and sat down to talk. Chris was being compassionate. He saw someone eating alone, and sat down and talked. How many of us have the compassion to do that? How many of us have the courage to step outside our comfortable worlds and reach out to someone? For Chris, it wasn’t even courage. It never seemed like he needed to make any leaps to meet new people. He had this way of talking with you that made it seem like you and he had been friends forever.help but share in it. He was also courageous and compassionate. To recount a story told at the remembrance: A certain freshman was sitting by himself down at Commons when he first met Chris. If those of you who aren’t freshmen remember your freshman year, then you'll probably remember how the first few weeks of school were filled with the hope of meeting new friends and the anxiety that you for years. He got that manner from his family, I think. Mike, his father, Mary, his mother, and Andrea, his sister, all have that spirit of ease with people. I only met them a few days ago, at the memorial service here at Davidson, but I think it is clear that Chris’s spirit was, in a lot of ways, a Malamisura spirit. Davidson wasn’t the only place that was blessed to know Chris’s spirit. Chris was born in Morgantown, West Virginia, but he lived for most of his life in Bluefield, West Virginia. A number of Davidson students drove to Bluefield for the funeral services for Chris. Bluefield sits just across the border from Virginia, off of 77, in the midst of a bumpy land of tree-covered hills. With the leaves turning to bright yellows and reds, the hillsides around Bluefield are beautiful right now. Having seen his home, I understand why Chris called West Virginia “America’s best-kept secret.” Bluefield isn’t a small place, but when we rolled into town a few hours before the Sacred Heart Church and a gymnasium adjacent to it. The Mass of Resurrection in Sacred Heart was filmed and then fed onto a screen in the gymnasium. The Malamisuras graciously opened their home to visitors after the funeral. Their home, their garage, and their backyard were filled with friends and family. Chris touched people and lives. For my part, I know that one of the most important reasons why I can call Chris not only my friend, but my brother, is because I got to know him first semester last year. I have my stories about Chris too, enough to fill pages. On the way out of Bluefield, we stopped at a Citgo on the other side of town and heard some people talking about Chris. It’s understandable. Chris was known not because he strived to be known, but because he was, simply, fun to be around because he was sincerely happy. There are a thousand stories to tell about Chris. That’s not hyperbole. So many people knew him and loved him that the stories could fill the Davidsonian for at least the rest of the year, if not longer. So many people knew him and loved him that the funeral service in Bluefield filled up. But right now I want to thank Chris. His friendliness, caring, and love of happiness are beacons for those of us still at sea. I also want to thank his family, whose strength and compassion helped me this past week. To Mike, Mary, and Andrea: thank you for helping shape such an amazing person. Words seem inadequate as a tribute to Chris. He was a friend, son, brother. He was a human being. He was unique and true and good. Chris never wore shoes. He probably had the dirtiest feet in the world. But he had the biggest smile too.

1999 HOMECOMING KING AND QUEEN

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS SEEKING PAID TUTORS

THE AVID PROGRAM (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)

AVID is a program designed to prepare middle-achieving students in grades 6-12 for four-year college and university entry and success.

Classifieds Job Opportunity

If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are a candidate for this position:

- Enrolled in a college or university with good academic standing
- Able to work in a supportive manner with middle-level and high school students and teachers
- Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
- Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
- Willing to receive three hours of training in AVID teaching methodologies
- An excellent role model for motivated, organized, and successful students
- Representative of a balanced academic background

Wanted

Babysitter needed to take care of a one-year-old for a few mornings a week. For additional information call Kathy at 895-0419.

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year
Salary: $17.50 per hour

For additional information, please complete and return to the following:
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street, Suite 506
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
(704) 343-6975

*For additional information on advertising in the Classified Section, contact Peter Clark at 896-6507 or <peclark@davidson.edu>.

Marnie Padgett and [Name] are crowned Davidson’s Homecoming King and Queen for 1999.