THE DAVIDSONIAN

Profiles: SGA President, Foster Haselden
By Bossy PitreNger - Staff Writer

“Foster is very approachable, down to earth. He is good about not letting power go to his head,” says Ward Gibson ’02.

Senior Foster Haselden is a history major, a fisherman, a Kappa Sigma member, and our student body president. Every year for the past three years, he has taken on major leadership roles through the Student Government Association (SGA). Freshman, sophomore, and junior years, his class elected him president. He helped bring us the pizza bar at Vail Commons, outpost delivery, and more union café hours.

Why is Foster in SGA? “It is a way to stretch myself and to be able to give back to all my friends here,” he said. Foster sees the SGA as a service organization to serve every student who attends Davidson. However, when he arrived at Davidson, SGA was a new thing for him. “I wasn’t involved in SGA or any similar activities in high school. And here... it’s my life,” he explains.

Now, with the help of his good friend and sidekick, Dane Erickson '01, the SGA vice-president, and the rest of the SGA, he tries to make an “almost perfect school” better. One issue that our SGA president stresses is money. Foster wants to fund and co-sponsor more clubs and events than ever before. He feels that money should be available to any student who has a good idea. “I really want to increase the money that goes out to the student clubs,” claims Foster. He explains that because the SGA funds are for everyone, that everyone with a good purpose should be able to obtain money.

Every day, Foster is in his SGA office in the Union thinking and planning about what can improve student life. At the time, he is working on improving four major aspects of student life. First is the Vamanos van. He is finding ways to increase the efficiency and the lengths of time the Vamanos van runs. “When we are done with it, the Vamanos van will be running like clockwork,” he says. Next, Foster is modifying the SGA bylaws. He is also working on ways to allow students to use the meal plan at the Union Café. Lastly, he is working with the Environmental Action Committee (EAC) to come up with a needed recycling service. As of now, what you put in the recycling bins will not get recycled. Foster wants to change this.

When Foster is not working with SGA, he is reading The Majors by John Feinstein, playing golf with Joey Harris ’02, or listening to Tupac or George Strait. In his days after Davidson, he is looking to go abroad for a year, and then maybe to law school. Whatever he does, he will always be a great asset to the school both in his days as a bachelor here at Davidson and beyond his graduation date this spring.

Magical Mystery Tour intrigues the Class of 2003
By ANNA KVANviG - Staff Writer

What do pizza and subs, accidental trips around the Charlotte Airport, and lewd comedy have in common? They were all spotlighted in this year’s Magical Mystery Tour. The Magical Mystery Tour, an event solely for freshmen, was presented by F-Crew and took place on September 3.

“I really enjoyed the Magical Mystery Tour,” says Charton ’03. “The Magical Mystery Tour was fantastic... we bonded with other freshmen that I didn’t know previously,” says Rachel.

Many freshmen were intrigued by the fact that they did not know what they were doing. For others, the evening was simply a chance to get away from campus. “I signed up to go on the Magical Mystery Tour because there’s not much to do on campus,” says one freshman. Other than the fact that their ticket included their dinner, these bold freshmen did not know what kind of adventure the night would entail.Much to do for freshmen until we get to go down the hill," said Emily Kuhn '03. "It was a good chance for the freshmen to get away from campus." Eighty freshmen bought tickets for $10 from members of F-Crew during the week. They were told to report to the 900 Room in the College. "I wanted to do something," Laurie Gomer '03 said. "It sounded pretty cool although I didn’t know much about it and I couldn’t get anyone to tell me what we were doing."

### Freshmen Mix, Await Big Brothers
By ANN GREGORY AND LAURA MCCANDLISH
News Editors

With the arrival of a new freshman class at Davidson, hall counselors are once again faced with ways to entertain and encourage these new students to meet different people. Some of the means of doing this include inter-hall mixers and the Davidson tradition of Big Brothers and Big Sisters.

Freshman mixers provide students with the opportunity to get to know people from their own class. Last Friday, Richardson dorm held a five-floor dance party mixer with each hall featuring a different musical theme. First Richardson hall counselors Lauren Schultz '01 and Lauren Hancock '01 planned an ice cream social for their hall, which was, according to Lauren Daniel '03, "fun and well-attended."

Third Watts hall counselors Mike Wipfler '01 and Chris Brantley '01 took their hall swing dancing this past week. They have also planned to cook dinner for 3rd Cannon with entertainment by resident lounge singer and Psychology Professor, Dr. Edward Palmer, and to play a game of whiffleball with President Bobby Vagt on his front lawn. Second Richardson played a water balloon volleyball game. Second Little and Fourth Watts had a scavenger hunt where the freshmen searched for "stolen" hall counselors and were rewarded with ice cream. Other hall mixer events have included Ultimate Frisbee games at the Lake Campus, trips to Ben and Jerry’s, and Twister tournaments.

Mona Musiitwa, a resident of Second West Belk, enjoyed a S'mores making mixer with Second East Belk. "Compared to other halls," she said, "we haven't done much yet. I hope we will get to mix with guys from other halls soon."

With the exception of Third Watts, most Hall Counselors have yet to pair their freshmen with Big Brothers or Big Sisters. Lauren Daniel '03 said, "everyone on my hall is really excited to meet their Big Brothers." Most halls will be matched up in time for First Night Down on Patterson Court.

After pizza and sub sandwiches, three vans full of expectant underclassmen headed off to Charlotte. The destination was The Perch, a comedy club. At The Perch, the freshmen watched a series of skits and songs in a comfortable atmosphere with couches and chairs in the upstairs club. Margaret Holt '03 said, "The show was fun because we were together with our friends and could laugh along with each other, even if the humor was a bit on the crude side."

However, the vans got lost and made a brief stop at the Charlotte Airport to turn around. Despite the confusion, everyone seemed to have a good time. "Except for driving around for about an hour, going all over Charlotte, which was kind of fun, the Magical Mystery Tour was fantastic because we bonded with other freshmen that I didn’t know previously," Rachel Charton '03 said.

Overall, the night seemed to be a huge success. Webster Harrison '03, a member of F-Crew said, "I thought it was fun, it was a good opportunity for freshmen to get to know one another. The show was great. And I can’t wait to go back on another trip."