THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

Turkish Earthquake Relief Efforts at Davidson

RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

The International Student Association (ISA) held a weeklong fundraiser to aid victims of the devastating earthquake that hit Turkey in the early morning hours of August 17. Responding to cries for help from the Turkish government and embassy, they began by setting up a booth at the Opportunities Fair on September 1. After a strong initial reaction, members decided to extend their efforts. They kept the booth open in Chambers all the following week, collecting donations and pledges from students and faculty. During that time they were able to raise more than $2,800, according to Ayse Tek '02, an ISA member who hails from Turkey herself.

The group plans to split up the money between the American Red Cross, World Relief, and the Turkish Embassy in Washington. Both the Red Cross and World Relief have been active in collecting donations, in sending aid to the Turkish authorities, and in spearheading the relief efforts in the country itself. The Turkish embassy has set up a fund to help the Turkish Red Crescent society, probably the group most directly involved during this crisis.

In hopes of providing still more assistance, Tek said that ISA members have talked to Dean Shandley about operating a booth at other school functions. They anticipate collecting donations at Davidson sporting events and at Parents’ Weekend activities.

The trembler, which registered a staggering 7.4 on the Richter scale, has been one of the most destructive catastrophes to hit Turkey in years, both in its severity and in the size of the affected area. Estimates of the death toll vary, but somewhere between 20,000 and 40,000 people lost their lives. On top of that, at least 30,000 were injured, and an incredible 600,000 people were left homeless.

Most of the relief efforts to date have focused on treating the wounded and housing the victims. The German Red Cross was one of the first international groups to arrive on the scene. They brought with them their field hospital, housed in Macedonia after relief efforts for Kosovo refugees, to assist the greatly overtaxed local medical facilities, many of which were severely damaged as well. Other international branches of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent soon followed.

Housing has proved to be a much bigger problem. Within days, makeshift camps of tents and temporary shelters popped up all over the countryside. Many of these are extremely overcrowded and offer little shelter from the elements. To complicate matters further, heavy rains soaked the region, turning these camps into quagmires.

With winter quickly approaching, warm living quarters are a priority for most families. An estimated 60,000 buildings, many of them residential, were destroyed or rendered unsafe. A Dutch group promised to send 30,000 prefabricated shelters to ease the plight of the victims, and the World Bank promised $200 million to build much-needed homes.

Although the humanitarian aspects of the disaster are overwhelming, the long-term structural and economic effects are perhaps even graver. The cost of repairs to roads and bridges in the area has been estimated to be as high as $40 billion. It could be two to three years before the infrastructure is returned to its former state. Moreover, the area hit was a major industrial center and crucial to the Turkish economy. Not only were many large factories destroyed, but thousands of skilled employees also lost their lives. Many of those who survived have not been to work in weeks. Rescue efforts and the search for separated family members have taken precedence. The ultimate costs of these losses to firms and the resulting effects on the overall economy of the country are incalculable.

Throughout the crisis, the population has criticized the Turkish government for its inadequate response to the disaster. According to claims by the victims and the media, the regional authorities were completely unprepared and did not send rescuers and machinery soon enough to save many of the people trapped under the rubble.

In contrast, the international response to the crisis has been timely and extensive. A spokesperson for the Turkish embassy in Washington reported that sixty-three different countries have delivered aid of some kind. However, rebuilding will require more than just immediate assistance for the injured and homeless. The Turkish government is expected to request loans from the U.S. and other western countries, from the World Bank, and from the IMF. In the wake of this tragedy, the road to recovery will be a long one.

E. H. Little Library
Celebrating 25 Years

On September 27, 1974, E. H. Little Library was dedicated. Celebrate this anniversary with us!!

Join us! Monday, September 27
1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Ice cream on the plaza in front of the Library.
Exhibits in the Library lobby!