THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Tapp BEVAN
Staff Writer

Matt Hurt, Lauren Schultz, and Pat Burchett have just finished another typical day of their Davidson College experience. The day
started unusually early for a college student—at the crack of dawn, with physical training (affectionately referred to as “P.T.”) at
6:30 AM. P.T. lasted an hour, and was followed by a short breakfast, shower (hopefully), and then two to three
hours of class. With but a few minutes interspersed for lunch and their studies, the three complete their morning and
early afternoons before heading to three hours of practice with their respective Division I varsity athletic teams. By the time
the trio can call it a night, the day has run easily sixteen to eighteen hours.

This grueling schedule has become all-too-familiar to Hurt, Schultz, and Burchett who have been for the past few years balancing
their participation in Army R.O.T.C. and varsity athletics at Davidson. This balancing act, rigorous as it may be, has forged
three invaluable contributors to the college’s community—as athletes, cadets, and individuals.

Hurt (pictured below), a junior theatre major from Greenwood, Mississippi, will be starting at left tackle this season for the
varsity football team. This summer, Matt attended and graduated from the United States Army Airborne School at Fort Benning, Georgia.
The airborne course lasts three weeks, and the last week culminates with five jumps from a distance of twelve hundred
feet. Matt credits his training this summer and his participation in ROTC with strengthening his mental toughness and increasing his
self-confidence. Hurt states, “It takes a lot more to faze me now.” This increase in self-confidence has strengthened the confidence
Matt’s teammates have in him. Hurt feels that the reliance on teamwork that is inherent in both football and ROTC
has forged in him a true sense of the value of collaboration.

Head football coach Tim Landis agrees. Landis’ tenure has seen a great number of players participate in the Army ROTC
program. While Davidson has no football scholarships to offer—the collaboration of an ROTC program and a position on the football
team is an attractive option to many a recruit. Past participants in Davidson football and ROTC include Chris Frederick, Tom
Dugan, and Ellis Boyle. Landis describes Hurt as “very disciplined, self-motivated, and one who manages his time as well as
anyone I’ve ever coached.” Continuing, Landis praises, “I know, that as a staff, we all admire what Matt does.” The
seventh-year head coach cites Hurt’s mental toughness as the factor that allows Hurt, at only 218 pounds, to excel as
an offensive lineman.

The women’s volleyball team enters this year ranked #1 in the Southern Conference coming off a second-place finish in the
conference last year. A steady contributor to the success of the volleyball team has been cadet-athlete Lauren Schultz (pictured at
bottom-left). Schultz, a junior French major from Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, attended and graduated from the United States Army Airborne school this
past summer. Enforced in part by the training and experience offered by the combination of athletics and ROTC, Schultz has
been forged a manifest leader. Coach Lisa Marston — Davidson’s Coach of the Year in 1998-99, and the 98 Southern
Conference Coach of the Year — cites Schultz’s leadership as an important factor in helping young players adapt to the
high standards of Division I volleyball. “Lauren has born leadership skills. She has been doing a good job with leading
the freshmen and showing them the expectations of the program,” says Marston. “Lauren is very pleasant, very easy to work
with and has a great personality.”

The men’s cross-country program is on the rise, and a major contributor to this ascension is senior Pat Burchett. Burchett,
a senior religion major from Columbia, South Carolina, returns to the squad this year as one of the tri-captains. This
past summer Burchett spent five weeks at Fort Lewis, Washington at Advanced Camp. Advanced Camp is the culminating experience for
Army ROTC cadets, where these aspiring officers are evaluated on three years of cumulative training. A mentally and physically demanding
experience, “Camp” runs five weeks during the summer between a cadet’s junior and senior year. Burchett’s leadership was plainly recognizable
both at camp (where he was placed in command of over forty fellow cadets) and on the cross-country course (where
Burchett has been selected as one of the team’s three captains this season). Coach Gary Andrews cites Pat as one
of the contributing factors.in the program’s recent upsurge, “Pat is one of the core group of seniors who has helped
turn the program around and help take it to the next level.” Looking forward to this season, Coach Andrews says
Burchett has looked great in preseason and has been very focused in practice. “ROTC has helped Pat hone his leadership
abilities and has made him tougher mentally and physically.” An important factor stringing together the lives of these three student-athlete-cadets
is Captain William Geiger, the Assistant Professor of Military Science at Davidson College. Captain Geiger encourages his cadets to embrace
the challenges of varsity athletics at Davidson, “Athletics gives the cadets the team concept. That’s what the army is, a
team.”

SPORTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999

A Davidson R.O.T.C. cadet fires an M-16. Captain William Geiger

Don’t call them lucky
By Seth Davis
Arts & Living Editor

Ideas move through my mind, each one a seeming starting point for this column. But, as I cannot latch onto
one with full vigor, I best simply speak on each of them.

Davidson soccer win over Clemson
When the Davidson Men’s Soccer team walked off the field in South Carolina, hearts fresh and alive with the energy
of victory, the day became marked as a moment in history. True, all days and all plays occur in moments
in time, but that night in Carolina saw an outcome of events that few analysts may have expected: Davidson won.
When the day began, Davidson was ranked lower in the Southern Conference (at fifth) than Clemson, their opponent, was ranked
in the nation.

Did Davidson slay Goliath? The Bible tells its readers that the boy did so. Sports writers are in love with
using this story as an analogy for a team that wins over a much higher-ranked opponent. If those underdogs have
a stellar season, then they are called a “Cinderella squad.” Davidson is no David, and the members of the team
would, I think, not be happy with being called Cinderella. Davidson’s defeat of Clemson was no slingshot, it was a
2-0 win. Don’t call them the little, lucky guy. The Men’s Soccer team has more than one Goliath wearing Davidson’s
colors. (Editor’s note: After this article was submitted on Saturday, the men’s soccer team added to their heroic week by
knocking off U.S.C. Nice call, Seth!)

Soccer in general
Soccer (football), as many of you may know, is the world’s sport. It is a language that crosses international and
cultural barriers. It is followed with fervor that goes beyond simple support of one’s favorite team. In Ireland, Catholic and
Protestant-based professional teams face off in contests that carry all the weight of a religious and political feud.

Summer ends and Sammy has 57
I think about the history made a few nights ago in South Carolina and my mind jumps back to last
year, when Maris’ time in history was surpassed by one crack of Mark McGwire’s bat. Sitting on the porch of
my fraternity yesterday, someone announced that Sosa has 57 home runs now. Though the discussion then moved into whether or
not the Mets have the best infield in history, I stayed stuck on that number. It is not record-setting, but
it marks a repeat of the power displayed in last year’s season. How many can he hit in one year?
Will progress ever stop? I don’t know, but I’m waiting in anticipation to see. (Editor’s note again!): As a resident
of suburban Chicago, I can't forgo this opportunity to revel in the success of one of the truly great men
in professional sports. If only his team weren't 25 games out of first place...

History is marked in many different ways, but the times we remember most are those days where the day-to-day trend
of life is broken by something extraordinary. I have mentioned history-making twice in this column, punctuated by some general comments
on soccer. We find extraordinary events in those things that we value in some measure. Though it is not true
for everyone, some of us remember days in sport. The day our father first put a golf club into our
hands. The day when that first free throw fell through the basket with only the slightest whisper. The day we
hit the volleyball clear across the net. The day in South Carolina when that shot sailed into the back of
the goal.
