THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lacrosse splits with rivals, improve to 5-7

By BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Writer

After dominating both Ohio University and Howard, Davidson lacrosse moved on to tougher competition as they faced two of their
main rivals, Virginia Tech and the University of Richmond, in the same week. The Cats were looking to avenge two
defeats from last season.

The Hokies entered the contest against the ‘Cats with a 3-0 record, the best start in their program’s history. Also,
they returned most of their starters from last year’s squad, which beat the ‘Cats by ten. For a while, it
appeared that it would be a repeat of last year as Virginia Tech jumped out to a 5-2 lead in
the first twelve minutes. The ‘Cats quickly turned it around as they played the best they had all season. They
dominated time of possession in the Virginia Tech zone, and they finished off many opportunities to score six unanswered goals.
They took a 9-6 lead into the half.

As much as Davidson had dominated the end of the first half, after an early goal to increase the lead
to four, the Hokies ran off six straight goals in less than ten minutes to lead 12-10. Once again, the
momentum swung as Linda Rothemund scored with 20:33 remaining to cut the lead to one. A minute later, freshman Sarah
Otto knotted the score at twelve off a beautiful feed from Stephanie Hunter. Lauren Kenchington gave Davidson back the lead
when she scored with 17:41 left. The next seven minutes were marked by strong defense, a period in which both
squads had good scoring opportunities. Virginia Tech then finished with a flurry as they scored three goals in the last
ten minutes to seize a 15-13 victory. Down 14-13, the ‘Cats had several opportunities to score, but they were unsuccessful,
and the Hokies scored on the following counter-attack to go up by two.

Linda Rothemund led the ‘Cats with 5 goals and one assist. Lauren Kenchington had another strong game as she finished
with three goals and three assists. Senior Amanda Fleck and Sarah Otto both had a pair of goals. The Hokies
were saved by the performance of their goalkeeper, Melissa Wagner, who made 19 saves.

On Easter Saturday, Davidson faced the Richmond Spiders. Even though Richmond entered the game with a 1-7 record, the ‘Cats
knew it would not be an easy contest. Not only had Davidson never beaten Richmond in lacrosse, but Richmond’s poor
record could be partially explained by the fact that they play in the very tough Colonial Athletic Association (at times
this season, the CAA has had as many as four teams in the top 20). While lower scoring than the
game against Virginia Tech, it was just as close throughout. In the first half, neither team could get out to
a lead of more than a goal. This was the result of strong defense and goalkeeping at both ends. At
the half, the score was tied.Tied at five. In the second half, the Spiders got off to the better start
as they jumped out to a 9-7 lead. With about six minutes remaining, the 'Cats had a good opportunity to
score as they set up for a free shot. Davidson was stopped by Richmond keeper Christy Yarnell, but due to
a foul, they were awarded another free shot. Once again, Yarnell was up to the task as she stopped the
shot. This time, the ball was not controlled, and Lauren Kenchington was able to put the rebound in the net.
A minute later, it appeared that Richmond would put its lead back to two as it had a two-on-one. Davidson
goalie Lisa Benjamin made a great clutch save. She quickly passed the ball to Blair Otto. Otto then found Stephanie
Hunter running up the right sideline, and passed to her. Hunter ran more than half the field, and passed the
ball to a wide-open Kenchington, who beat the keeper with 4:54 left to tie the game at 9.

The final five minutes saw increased drama as both teams had quality scoring opportunities. The Spiders had a free shot
with just 50 seconds left, but it was taken away due to an offside call. After a scramble in front
of the Davidson net in the final thirty seconds, the ball was cleared and the 'Cats counterattacked. In the final
ten seconds, Davidson had three shots on goal, but none could find the back of the net.

The first overtime period saw Davidson control the time of possession. Even though they had some good looks, they came
up empty. The Davidson defense continued to play excellently, and Lisa Benjamin made several more key stops. At the 2:44
mark in the second overtime, Stephanie Hunter scored off a Linda Rothemund feed to give Davidson a 10-9 lead. That
lead proved to be safe as Davidson was able to keep the ball away from the Spiders for most of
the remaining time. The win over Richmond improved the 'Cats record to 5-7. It was their biggest win of the
season.

For Davidson, Lauren Kenchington led the way with 4 goals, 3 coming in the second half. Kenchington also had two
assists. Linda Rothemund had two goals to go along with two assists. Lisa Benjamin had 12 saves. For the Spiders,
freshman Carrie Aitken had 4 goals.

Help other Davidson students? Make a difference? Find great contacts, internships, and jobs? Career Advisors (CA) provide critical support for
outreach, education, and projects within the Office of Career Services. CAs work on a wide range of activities from conducting
initial orientations, teaching others about campus and internet career resources, hosting group meetings, conducting surveys, researching opportunities, writing, and marketing.
Training for CAs is provided prior to the start of classes in the fall. An average of six hours of
work a week is expected (this includes meetings, outreach, and office hours). Career Advisors are paid a stipend at the
end of each semester. To apply, bring a resume and cover letter to the Office of Career Services by 5:00
p.m. on April 20. If you have questions, call Tony Butchello, Associate Director, at ext. 2132.
