DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN

“Apartment Building F’s Foremost College Weekly

ESTABLISHED 1914

Alcohol Awareness Week!
- NEWS 2

Is there something wrong with the cow?
- OPINIONS 8

Mardi Gras campus formal!
- A&L 12

Southern States!
- SPORTS 20

Students celebrate Solidarity Week

By Laura McCandlish
Staff Writer

Celebrating diversity and showcasing community perspectives, Solidarity Week occurs annually through the sponsorship of the College Union. This year, the
week began on February 14 and concluded on February 21. Tyler Aycock ’00, chair of the Solidarity Committee and Co-Curricular
Vice President, stated, “My hope for the week was that it would celebrate how far we have come in building
a community at Davidson and examine how far we need to go. It should be a joyous occasion but should
also address our community’s problems and where we need to go on those issues.”

The week commenced on Valentine’s evening with the keynote address of Mike Dyson, who spoke to a small crowd on
“Race Rules.” “People said it was really a quality program,” Aycock said. It was held in a large group discussion
format, in the lounge behind Love Auditorium.

Last Tuesday, February 16, the International Students’ Association and the Dean Rusk Program held a Chinese New Year celebration which
included traditional Chinese lion dancing, free Lotus Chinese food, and a Chinese New Year Discussion, led by religion professor Dr.
Mark Csikszentmihalyi.

On Wednesday evening, Bagerty spoke in the Morrison Room about Striking Back at the Empire. Bagerty is associated with the
Catholic Worker movement and the PlowShares movement, which strives to end the nuclear weapon component to the United States’ role
as a world power. He questioned the role of the US government as the world’s last empire dependent upon its
nuclear arsenal as the cornerstone of that empire. Bagerty and his wife run a Catholic Worker House.

See Solidarity Week on page 5

Davidson rings in Year of the Rabbit

By Acuit Deng
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, February 16, the International Students Association and the Dean Rusk Program celebrated the Chinese New Year with a
speech, lion dancing, and Lotus dinner. Tuesday, Chinese Year 4697, marked the start of the year of the Rabbit.

Each year, Chinese all over the world celebrate the Spring Festival, known to us as the Chinese New Year, with
elaborate decorations, food, and many other festivities. The Chinese follow a lunar calendar, with a year divided into twelve months,
each of which is in turn equally divided into thirty-nine and a half days. The year is also divided into
twenty-four terms, which represent changes in nature. 1999 is the beginning of the five-year cycle of the rabbit’s earth element,
which represents a year of intellectual activity, justice, peace, and practicality. People born in the year of the Rabbit are
thought to be sensitive, social, and peace-loving. They also tend to value stability and place importance on their homes and
family. Rabbits are believed to make good business people, politicians, and lawyers. Some famous Rabbits include: Kongzi (Confucius), Michelangelo Buonarroti,
Walt Whitman, Albert Einstein, Marie Curie, Queen Victoria I, Fidel Castro, Joseph Stalin, Wesley Snipes, and Frank Sinatra.

The Chinese New Year is called the Spring Festival because it marks the start of the spring harvest season. The
origin of the Spring Festival, however, is not really known. Since China was largely an agricultural society, food has become
an important part of the festivities. Chinese homes are generally decorated with flowers and various fruits. Dumplings are served to
family members, visiting neighbors, and relatives. To prevent bad luck from the previous year from carrying over, people usually clean
houses and dress up in new clothes. The color red was originally used to ward off Nian, the beast whose
name means “year.”

See Chinese New Year on page 3

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
