Women’s Month: Not Just for Women
By ANNE STANCIL
Student Health Advisor

If you have walked through Chambers, the Union, or a dormitory, you have probably noticed posters and bulletin boards advertising the activities for Women’s Month. “Women’s Month?” you might ask. “What is Women’s Month?” Or, if you are a man, you might ask, “Do I need to mark this on my calendar?”

The Student Health Advisors want to encourage both men and women to attend the events this month. We have watched movies, heard music, and had discussions—activities which will continue all month. We stress the importance of participation from both genders, and not just women. A few weeks ago, different groups sponsored programs on eating disorders for both men and women, and the response was encouraging. By engaging in open dialogue, we begin to see that many issues, such as rape, sexuality, and body image, affect both sexes.

As a health advisor, I am naturally concerned with the overall health and well-being of the campus. I have written articles discussing physical health issues such as AIDS and the hazards of alcohol. Now I am concerned with emotional health as well. A good relationship with members of the opposite sex is important to mental health. We are not speaking necessarily of sexual or romantic relations, but genuine friendships and acquaintances. Like all healthy relationships, communication between the two parties is important. Communication between men and women is sometimes difficult due to inherent differences in the thought processes of males and females. These differences should only encourage us to increase communication and overcome our differences.

I have had several conversations about this issue with friends of both genders, and many have expressed their frustration with the interaction between men and women at Davidson. The frustration saddens me. Here we are, the smartest in the country, assembled in one place, and we cannot relate to one another. We work abstract math problems and discuss complicated novels, but we have trouble communicating with the other gender. Why? Are we letting these differences become too overwhelming? Let’s all vow to change our ways and make strides toward better communication. Humans naturally gravitate toward what is comfortable and familiar, but let’s take the opportunities this month and leave our comfort zones. If you are a man, go to the discussions about international reproductive rights or sexuality. If you are a woman, go to these events too, and take a male friend along with you. Women’s Month presents both men and women with the opportunity to open the lines of communication and get to know ourselves and each other better.

Maxwell’s House of Style
By Peter Gross
Staff Writer

I wish I were cool. I have no rhythm, I have no talent; I don’t have “it,” whatever “it” is. I guess that’s why I gravitate toward people who do. That’s probably also why I enjoy listening to musicians who have that intangible element about them... that touch of flair in their work that reminds me why I love music. R&B specialist Maxwell is such an artist—confident, yet graceful; chic, yet unpretentious; rough-edged, yet silky smooth. I first saw him perform on a VH1 special a year ago. Even though I had never heard ofhim, I was fascinated. His voice was impeccably pure, while his songs had a Hendrix-like hypnotic feel to them. It was a relatively easy choice, therefore, to ask Maxwell to work with Mario Sorrenti on the vocals for the record, at times overlaying six or seven separate vocal tracks. Such creativity and imagination add sophistication to his undeniable sense of style. When it came out a few months ago, I bought his new album "Embrya" (Columbia, 1998). His voice is impeccably pure... he has the smoothest sound in the industry, but he has taken a step forward with this album by refining his art. He is not only a mesmerizing performer — he has added the element of musical precision to his work. The result is a fantastic album.

Though the everyday Boyz II Men and Janet Jackson listener may not appreciate what Maxwell has accomplished with "Embrya," I do encourage the discerning enthusiast to give him a try — whether a fan of R&B or not. At the very least, in listening to the album you might understand my favorite part of it — when I listen with my eyes closed, and get drowned in Maxwell’s velvet-smoothness, if I concentrate really hard... for a brief second, I know what it’s like to be cool. And, well, that’s reason enough for me.

CROSSWORD

“It’s not easy being green”

Across
13. Conqueror
14. Mild exclamation
15. Pure Prairie League song
16. Colosseum
17. Trademarked picture
18. Food list
19. 1965 TV Series
21. Selves
22. Band that recorded 55-Across
23. Word after wine or eye
24. Kind of room
28. Moving men
32. Assistants
34. Hot rock
35. RV Connector
38. 1960 children’s book
42. Aliens
43. LxW
44. Bridge term
45. Harding and Kerrigan
48. Western Indians
49. Wastemaker
52. NYC falls back to it
54. German chancellor von Bismarck
55. 1962 #2 rock hit
62. Meager
63. Actress Thompson et al.
64. Florida city
65. Model MacPherson
66. Convenience
67. Brewster
68. Toboggan
69. Medics
70. Latin “to be”

Down
1. Candy’s Spaceballs character
2. Actor Raymond
3. AmEx competitor
4. On the safe side
5. Ben & Jerry’s mascots
6. Philosopher Descartes
7. French bread?
8. Alternative to laces
9. Famed hunchback
10. Wise one
11. Commotions
12. Cigarettes
13. Greek finality
20. Drunks
23. Doctor who wrote 38-Across
24. Kind of doll or time
25. Frequently torn ligament
26. 18th US President
27. Actor Nicholas
28. Musician Al
29. Summer drinks
30. Golf gadget
31. Kelp
32. Boot
33. Actress that starred in 19-Across
34. Serpent
35. Close
36. Controlled
37. Referees
39. Time period
40. ___ Smart
41. Rapper Hill
45. Conserved
46. Kind of pieces
47. Retirement ID
49. Dreams
50. Coral reef
51. Fire up
53. Figure of speech
55. Joy
56. Paper amount
57. ___ Of Eden
58. They’re near ORs and ERs
59. Mini and Morrison
60. Actress Sommer
61. Beam