By Setu Davis
Student Health Advisor

What is health? Is health the same as happiness? When we speak of someone being healthy, do we mean simply
that their bodies are strong and stable and their minds balanced? The answers to these questions might strike us as
obvious. Or the asking of these questions might seem absurd. Health is having a body that’s working and a mind
that’s balanced (not afflicted by a disorder). Why ask what happiness is? I'm happy when I’m happy. If you don't
know when you're happy, well, you've never been happy. These answers may be satisfying. But they're not sufficient, because though
they may illustrate one idea of health, they don’t cover all ideas of health. Nowhere, in either the questions asked
or the answers given, was any notion of the soul mentioned. For someone who believes in the existence of a
soul, perhaps due to religious conviction, these answers would be far from satisfying. They might add a third element to
the formulation of health, saying, “I’m healthy when my body is working and my mind is balanced and my soul
is good.” Or they might abandon the body and the mind as the place of health, choosing instead to say
that it is in the soul that healthiness alone lies. These notions of health might affect conceptions of happiness.

Does the fact that there are varied opinions as to the nature of health and happiness mean that asking such
questions is useless? Should one simply discover for oneself what health and happiness mean and leave public discourse on the
subject to those with nothing else to do? My answer, inadequate though it may be, is that these questions are
neither useless nor left only to the individual to answer. They aren't useless because individuals do not exist in isolation
from one another. Your health and happiness are not your own. This theme has run through most, if not all,
of the efforts that the Health Advisors have made this semester. We may not, in fact, have always been cognizant
of this fact. Take, for example, AIDS awareness week. Thursday night may have seen the AIDS awareness luminaries dotting the
sidewalks near Chambers and Little Library or the Diversity Dinner. I’m speaking about this issue because I see all too
often today that we know that we live in a community, but we say, “I'll pursue my happiness and you
pursue yours and all will work out.” In the ancient world, victims of leprosy were exiled, a practice illustrated in
the novel Ben Hur. This is just one example of the marginalization of the “unhealthy” by society. It may be
tempting to say that this practice is far behind us--and yet, one could argue that the same dynamic still does
operate on many different fronts. We still see hostile views towards AIDS victims, something which the AIDS awareness demonstration was
intended to combat. Maybe the truth is that we are all unhealthy in our ways. Maybe, just maybe, we’re here
to help each other through the days that are dark and the problems that besiege us.

Some thoughts to end the year.Quietly they brush their hair, stare into space, looks of either emotional resignation or deep
sadness on their faces. Clothed in black dresses, quietly they sit. This setting greeted the audience as it filed into
the Black Box Theatre for An Evening of Berthold Brecht. The night was filled with two one-acts by the German
playwright directed by Professor Sharon Green.

The first one-act performed was “The Jewish Wife.” The dynamics of the act are unsettling. Three women, who are and
aren’t the same woman, sit at individual tables and perform similar actions and say similar things. What is the story
in “The Jewish Wife?” Though the play isn’t staged in a conventional manner, it seems that it tells the story
of a husband and wife living in Nazi Germany. The wife is Jewish, the husband, it seems, isn’t. The husband
was played by Bill Neville, while the three wives were Kristine Grayson, Rosalie Esteves, and Molly Shaw. Brecht’s construction of
“The Jewish Wife” is unconventional, but however you look at it, the performances by Bill, Kristine, Rosalie, and Molly were
nothing but good.

The second one-act was somewhat more conventional. Entitled “The Informer,” it details the anxiety of a husband and wife (Rosalie
Esteves and Ed Ellington) who are worried that their son (Bill Neville) or their maid (Rachel Stoddard) will “inform” on
them. While their personal drama plays out in their living room, the audience sees actors wearing the garb of Nazi
youth (Rachel Stoddard, Molly Shaw, and Bill Neville) walk, over and over again, in a circle around the scene, highlighting
the paranoia in a society gone mad.

---

By Trey Davis

Symbols of Individuality

Across
1. Wrap
6. Online auctioneer
10. Jane Austen novel
14. Reserve collection
15. Sled
16. Competed
17. “No fat” substitute
18. Computer spasm
19. “The Woods”
20. School period
21. Dance
22. Stomach ailment
23. Sphere
25. Actor Johnny
27. Poetic before
28. Cyclist’s data (abbr.)
31. Exxon, previously
33. Clairvoyance
35. Get a band on the run?
37. Culture medium
39. Seep
43. Gonzaga mascot
45. The Citadel mascot
47. Adrift
48. Actor Kaplan
50. Employing
51. Nada
53. Radius’s partner
55. New prefix
56. Choose
59. It can be square
61. Ump’s cry
63. Comprehend
65. Sicknesses
67. “SOS” group
71. Costa
72. MASH actor
73. Smudge
74. Correct
75. Cowboy Lett
76. Separate
77. Tennis breakdowns
78. Border
79. Refuse

Down
1. Burns, for one
2. —-Bopp
3. Computer brand
4. Frisbee maker
5. Singer Barry
6. Napoleon’s isle
7. Fresno State mascot
8. Nimble
9. Slang affirmative
10. Wicked
11. Chop
12. Metric measurement
13. Love
21. Pellets
22. FedEx alternative
24. Sax need
26. Lima’s country
28. Singer McEntire
30. Rodent
32. Long story
34. Sens. and reps.
36. Organize
38. First murder victim
40. Norse God
41. Area
42. Waffle
44. Stare at
46. Party to pig out at?
49. Mississippi State mascot
52. Rogue
54. #s
56. Beasts
57. Lion’s group
58. Implicit
60. Was sick
62. Florida city
64. College entrance exams
66. Lois or Lover’s
68. Aunt and Arthur
69. Famous Simpson
70. Actor Johnson
72. Lager
73. Watched
