8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

Decoding the Global

The Futon

Picture the scene: the camera focuses on a blank, empty space under the lofted bed. The music begins (the introduction to “2001: A Space Odyssey”) as it pans left, then right: nothing, a vacant hole in existence waiting, waiting to be filled. In slow motion, the two soldiers of liberation approach. They march with deliberate precision and purpose towards the black hole. In their hands, they carry the answer, the solution to this puzzling physics quandary. It is The Futon. It has arrived.

It all began over Parent’s Weekend. The black hole was vacuumed and cleaned to convey the feeling of vast emptiness. When the parents arrived, they were asked to take a seat, but there were not enough seats available. With that seed planted, we went to dinner. At dinner, it was casually mentioned that many students had futons and enjoyed them to a great degree. Plan A: “Futon Shield” was put into action. Alas, it was to no avail. The dinner progressed without further conversation about seating. It was time for Plan B: “Futon Storm.”

“Dad, I need a futon.”
“No.”
“Mom, I would really like a futon.”
“No.”
“But all the other kids have futons.”
“If all the other kids jumped off a cliff, would you jump off a cliff?”
“Yes.”
“Damn it, Andrew, that’s not funny!”
“Oh, sorry.”
“I really would like a...”
“No.”
“OK, fine, I will just be a social outcast with bad back problems and have to go to a chiropractor.”
“And who is going to pay for the chiropractor, not us.”
“Oh.”
“But...”
“No.”

So ended Plan B. After discussing the situation with my roommate overnight, we decided to enact Plan C, the mother of all plans, the plan to end all plans. It was time for “Futon Fox.” When the targets (I mean parents) arrived the next morning, a tour was given of selected rooms (all of them just happened to have an excess of seating devices).

“Wow,” said my mother, “lots of people have futons.”
“No,” replied my father.

Despite all of my planning, all of the careful work and manipulation, The Futon was doomed to remain a figment of my imagination. Then, when all seemed lost, it was as if Ethan Allen stepped out of the heavens and intervened. A nearby furniture store was having a sale. (For those of you who come from another planet, it should be noted that the word “sale” has a very powerful impact on people of the baby boomer generation). It was dumb luck, but in the end, it resulted in the procurement of The Futon.

Now that black hole of desperation beneath the lofted bed has been filled with people, activity, and life. I became popular. People came to visit and stayed for the atmosphere. The room was a virtual central station of studying, partying, and everything in-between. Yet, a disturbing trend began with the advent of The Futon. People came to the room to sit on The Futon, to lounge on The Futon, to sleep on The Futon even when I wasn’t there. Everyone except me was using my Futon. Oh, woe is I! So my love affair with The Futon did not last long. I look at it warily now. When people come to my room, I wonder. Do they come to see me or to visit The Futon?

Note: Many thanks to the Good Value Furniture Corporation of California (producers of The Futon) and the gnomes that have taken up residence in the tiny space behind The Futon. Also, it should be noted that The Futon folds out into a full-size bed...

Andrew MacDonald ’03

A few words about cheerleaders

I am a cheerleader. I freely admit this. I wear a short skirt; I shake pom-poms; I shout at athletic events. Cheerleaders are easy targets for jokes, but cheerleaders are a necessity here at Davidson. YOU NEED US. Here’s why:

1. There isn’t a whole lot of attendance at many athletic games. No one has figured out this phenomenon of sparse support. We’ll keep you posted.
2. When students actually attend athletic events, they magically become mute, not understanding why they should cheer. Not only are football games a place to chat and sit on the comfortable bleachers, but halftime is a time to stretch and probably leave the stadium. Nothing happens in the last two quarters, right?
3. The athletes are forced to cheer for themselves to drown the silence from the crowd. Yes, Davidson is small, but c’mon, we’re not a bunch of losers who sit in our rooms and study all the time (no matter what our workload is ranked). Students like to relax on weekends and not work until Sunday night. This, obviously, does not compute with a nice, two-hour study break.

Other Davidson Cheerleading notions that need dispelling include our budget. Although it seems that the cushy Baker Sports Complex has $$$ to throw around, it’s not coming our way. We borrow locker rooms to change in. This is the first year that we have not paid (OUT OF POCKET) for our team t-shirts, shoes, and socks. Seems trifling, but I wrote a $100 check last year for these three things—I paid to cheer. More importantly, our budget can only afford an instructor to come and teach once a week.

Why do I cheer? Because frankly, this isn’t high school. We aren’t a group of petite sprites competing for titles. We don’t care whether we are the best squad in the region, state, nation, or world. Our sole purpose is to support Davidson Athletic teams, and I think we do that by focusing on the teams we cheer for, not our own competitiveness...

On that note, let me add that we are asked to be, as Jim Murphy puts it, “ubiquitous.” We cheer three separate sports: football, women’s basketball, and men’s basketball. The seasons overlap. We actually have the longest season of any team. In an ideal world, we would have scholarships and wouldn’t have to drive ourselves to away games. There wasn’t enough money to send us to Georgetown with the football team, to cheer them as they won by one point on Georgetown’s Homecoming Game. Don’t you think we’d have liked to be there? And yet, we are criticized for not being everywhere. We can’t be. It isn’t humanly (or financially) possible.

We're not complaining. We love it—otherwise it would never be worth the three practices a week, 4 cardio sessions, and 2 team lifts. Plus games. With this schedule, I think we are roughly on par as an athletic team. We are serious about cheerleading, and take it as a sport—so no allusions to Waterboy cheerleaders please. Oh, and to address one freshwoman’s incorrect notion, we have to be stone-cold sober to throw free tosses and basket tosses 50 feet in the air. That rumor is an insult to her intelligence and our integrity as a team.

It is not fun to cheer to stone faces. Many games are almost humorous as we look out on a sea of gargoyles, wondering what could make you clap, stand up, or even alive. The chants really aren’t that difficult, especially when the middle 50% of student body SAT scores here are oh, between 1280-1410. A few to practice in your room in front of your mirror: “Here we go Wildcats, Here we go [clap twice].” “We are [clap twice],”D.C. [clap twice]. “Let’s Go Cats!” “De-fense, [clap twice] De-fense [clap twice].” Feeling bold? Shut your window, close the door, and actually smile when practicing. Look enthusiastic. (Perhaps lock your door to preserve your reputation.) It all comes down to response. You know how hard it is to be an athlete here at Davidson, with practices and games on top of the workload. Your roommate, your neighbor down the hall, someone you know plays on a DC team. The Admissions Office states that 1 out of every four of us is a D-I athlete. Support them. And you will be helping yourselves. My team structures new stunts, dances, and cheers in the hopes that the crowd will respond. What else do we have to do? We are your cheerleaders. The players give us something to cheer for, now give us something to cheer to.

Kristen Taylor ’01

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1999

In 1995, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a panel of more than 2,500 scientists from around the world, issued a report which stated that “the balance of evidence suggests a discernible human influence on global climate.” Despite this broad scientific consensus, an organization called the Global Climate Coalition (GCC) refuses to accept any limits on greenhouse gas pollution. Fred Palmer, president of GCC-member Western Fuels Association, had the audacity to say, “Every time you burn fossil fuels, you are doing the Lord’s work.” Don’t be fooled by the GCC’s innocuous-sounding name. Spending millions annually to block national and international political action on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the GCC is merely a front group that propagates misinformation about global warming issues. Despite its deceptively scientific name, the GCC is no more than a lobbying group for automobile and petrochemical corporations who see environmental legislation as a stumbling block for their profits.

The Davidson College endowment holds shares in several GCC corporations. Should we, the students of Davidson College, through our college’s investment dollars, help to further the GCC’s misguided agenda? Cool the Planet, a new Environmental Action Coalition committee, joins students at Stanford, Harvard, the University of Washington, and dozens of other colleges across the nation in encouraging divestment from corporations that are members of the Global Climate Coalition. Cool the Planet encourages trustees to divest from corporations like Exxon, General Motors, and closer to home, Duke Energy, thereby making a powerful economic statement. Cool the Planet seeks to encourage the big oil, coal, and auto companies to take responsibility for reducing the threat of global warming and to withdraw from their misinformation machine, the GCC.

The GCC, however, does not reflect the entire business community’s stance on global warming. The Pew Center on Global Climate Change, a coalition of corporations including Toyota, Boeing, British Petroleum (BP), and Lockheed Martin advocates a proactive corporate response to global warming: “We accept the views of most scientists that enough is known about the science and environmental impacts of climate change for us to take actions to address its consequences.” These corporations are making a conscious effort to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions without jeopardizing profits, proving clearly that no fundamental conflict exists between environmental stewardship and capitalism.

Cool the Planet’s symbolic message: withdrawing financial support from corporations whose actions we deem immoral has significant precedent. During the 1980s, Davidson undertook a similar economic protest against South Africa’s racist Apartheid regime, showing the trustees’ past willingness to balance financial and ethical interests. We anticipate equally fair consideration for Cool the Planet’s objectives. Cool the Planet does not take an adversarial approach to working with Davidson’s trustees and administration. Rather, we want to form a united front in the college community against the GCC’s destructive agenda. For more information, please visit the Cool the Planet table in the Union from 10 am-2 pm Tuesday-Thursday to learn more about Cool the Planet and the GCC. You can also contact co-chairs Sarah Cottrell (sacottrell@davidson.edu) or Arthur Gillett (argillett@davidson.edu).

Sarah Cottrell ’01
Stephen Gamboa ’00

The first frost killed the kudzu. If you frequent the cross-country trails or if you have ever gone for a quick jog that turned into a marathon run/walk because you lost your way on the complex trail system commonly referred to as the cross-country trails, you are probably familiar with the section called Kudzu Fields. You will eventually find this spot if you enter the trails beyond Martin Court F, behind the women’s soccer field and bear right at every intersection. In this far loop, the trail opens into a field with sparse trees, but the unique feature, the feature that gives the spot its unique name, is the dense drape of Kudzu. In the spring, the carpet of vines blooms, and the purple flowers are well worth the sweat to see. This past week, however, it was not the deeply hued, O’Keefe-like flowers that left joggers-by awestruck; it was the inescapable odor of underarm. The first frost killed the kudzu, and all last week, the leaves lay baking. If you have ever wondered what it would be like to sit in a sauna with the Incredible Hulk, you may have missed your chance to find out. I, of course, the self-proclaimed pre-olympian, surged through Kudzu Fields for four consecutive days before sparing my nostrils and heading to the pavement. I could have turned around the first time I smelled the fumes, but for some reason, I continued running.

On day one, when I realized that I was sprinting away from my most obvious escape, my thoughts turned to a story that my uncle divulged several Thanksgivings ago. As the traffic thickened around his home in northern Virginia, he became increasingly concerned about the safety of the three family dogs who had the tendency to wander toward the road. After researching his options, doggy discipline school, retaining walls, and zoo-sized pens, he decided on an invisible electric fence. The installation involved planting posts on the property’s corners. These posts projected invisible electric waves that sent small shocks through the dogs when they tried to exit the yard. The dogs had a couple of acres for roaming and rarely entered the zapping range of the fence. My uncle thought that the dogs had completely acclimated to the fence until the day the oldest of the three dogs charged down the length of the quarter-mile driveway, yapping all the way. The dog was in the zapping range of the fences bordering both sides of the drive. My uncle, who was working in the yard at the time, said that he never figured out why the dog didn’t just turn around and head back toward the yard. He couldn’t understand why the dog seemed so bent on his destination and suffered the shock for so long. Upon recalling this story, I realized that my pre-olympic, Davidson brain functions much like that of an overweight, middle-aged beagle.

The beagle and I had developed tunnel vision. We both ran mindlessly toward some far-off finish line totally unaware of discomfort and ignoring more enjoyable routes. Thought for the Week: It may be November 1st, but it’s still too early in the semester to develop academic tunnel vision. Oh yeah, and don’t take your Davidson brain too seriously.

Note: Don’t let the part about Martin Court F get you confused, I was referring to the Five-Man senior apartments. You know, that’s what the F stands for, five.

Schaap Freeman ’00