THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1999

Davidson students participate in Econference

By STEPHEN GAMBOA
Web Editor

Last weekend seven Davidson students traveled to Philadelphia for Econference 2000, a national student environmental conference hosted by the University
of Pennsylvania. During the opening speeches, John Passacantando, executive director of the environmental watchdog agency Ozone Action, gave a special
commendation to Davidson College’s efforts to keep the companies in which it invests environmentally accountable. Cool the Planet, a committee
of the Environmental Action Coalition headed by junior Sarah Cottrell, is now reviewing the college’s investment portfolio. Cottrell will recommend
to the trustees in February that the college divests from any flagrant contributors to global warming.

Coordinating the Davidson delegation, sophomore Terra Gill said, “[The conference was] inspirational, motivational, and powerful. As a result, we returned
to campus with new hopes and ideas for how we can better Davidson environmentally: raising awareness, creating new leaders, and
making a real difference both inside and outside our school walls.” The Davidson students attended seminars on current issues and
participated in workshops that taught environmental campaigning skills. Besides learning concrete information, Davidsonians were given the opportunity to network with
other environmentalists from around the world. Senior Ian Kaplan found that, “the geographic diversity of students — all 50 states
were represented — majorly contributed to the success of the conference.”

Through connections made at the conference, senior Stephen Gamboa created the Forest Sustainability Committee of the EAC. The committee will
work with the Dogwood Alliance, a forest conservation agency, to promote more prudent use of North Carolina’s forestland. The Environmental
Action Coalition as a whole hopes to take information gathered at Econference to plan an environmental action week November 15.

BGLAD

* Story continued from front page

really it was just a celebration of diversity.” The club hopes to encourage diversity at our sexually conservative campus with
the new focus. They are planning on an ice cream social and some other big events next semester, but Boehmler
says, “This semester we are just trying to get settled in our identity.”

For more information or to get involved with BGLAD, contact presidents James Everett ’02 or Alexis Boehmler ’02.

Econference concluded with a student-led march to Philadelphia’s City Hall on Sunday.

Honor Code Violations
Spring 1999

Infraction Verdict Sanction
Cheating Guilty “F” in Course
Cheating Guilty “F” in Course

Authorized withdrawal from two other classes. One term suspension for the Fall 1999 semester.

We'll Be Brief.

We offer:
J.D. Programs
Joint J.D./LL.M. Degree Programs
January Admission
Centers for Excellence
Comprehensive Lawyering Skills Program
Successful Moot Court Program

Any Questions?

Call us: 800.537.4280.

CENTENNIAL
1899-1999

THE
JOHN MARSHALL LAW SCHOOL

Chicago, Illinois © www.jmls.edu

FALL
CONVOCATION

Saturday, October 30, 1999
10:30 a.m.
Chambers Building
Love Auditorium,
(Parents’ Weekend)

HONORARY DEGREE,
Honorable J. Dickson Phillips, Jr. ’43

GUEST SPEAKER,
Ambassador Edward Brynn

STUDENT/FACULTY AWARDS
