_ THE DAVIDSONIAN _ WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1999

Midseason Q&A with Bob McKillop

Davidson’s head skipper discusses shocker over UMASS, subsequent setbacks, and the quest for another fabulous February.

On Thursday, January 14th, Davidsonian Sports Staff member Stephen Cefalu caught up with head men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop to discuss some of the high notes and low notes of what has already been a very tumultuous 1998-99 season.

DSS: What would you say was the significance of the victory over UMASS on December 29th?

McKillop: UMASS is a national team in terms of respect and recognition. To beat a team that has that kind of respect and recognition on their home court is quite an accomplishment, quite a statement. The way we won also makes the victory significant. To be down 15 points at the half, with many people thinking we were dead and buried, and then somehow find a way to come back to tie in regulation and take it away from them in overtime, that made the win very special.

DSS: What about the win at home over Appalachian State in your nationally televised conference opener?

McKillop: The victory against App. St., a formidable foe whom we met last year in the Southern Conference tournament championship, coming back to back with the win at UMASS provided a great boost to our program. That whole week was a real statement about the potential for success this team has.

DSS: Would it be fair to describe the team’s performance thus far as schizophrenic?

McKillop: Yeah, real up and down, very inconsistent. Consistency is the elusive quality that this team is trying to grab hold of right now. Generally, we reach a point of consistency about this time of year. Jeff (Bergmann)’s injury disrupted our rotation, though, and that intrudes upon consistency. People understood and were comfortable with their roles. Then after that VMI game (in which Bergmann’s injury occurred) and five straight wins, some roles had to be immediately adjusted. In the process of making those subtle adjustments, that consistent pattern we had achieved got disrupted. Now we’re gradually finding that comfort zone again. We’re reestablishing our rotation.

DSS: Perhaps in the context of teams of the recent past, how would you describe this team’s cohesion?

McKillop: Our team chemistry is superb. Guys are pulling for each other, cheering for each other, helping each other, and wanting success for each other. Guys are accepting the roles defined for them and willing to do not only what is expected but whatever they can to help the team. What may, in fact, be happening is that we’re maybe trying a little bit too hard. If you think of baseball vernacular, it’s like we're trying to step up to the plate and hit a home run every time, instead of just making solid contact. Well, solid contact is all you need to hit home runs. They come naturally. We’ve tried too hard to fulfill expectations placed upon us by others to dominate the division. Conference play is very competitive. There’s a very fine line between wins and losses. Last year we had to get a last-second stop to beat UNCG up at their place, and yet people get amnesia about that stuff. They only remember the successes. Everyone expected us to go into UNCG this year and just trounce them.

DSS: When conference teams, such as ETSU and UNCG, are with you late in the game, do you get the sense that they smell blood and go for the jugular more so than in previous years?

McKillop: Any team that has had success in its previous year is gonna be a target. Our record in conference play has been very impressive over the last few years. When you have that kind of success, all of a sudden you become the object of people’s preparation and passion. You become the marquee game on their schedule, the one they highlight, underline, put in bold. They come after you with their best shot. We quite simply have to be ready to take people’s best shots every time we step on the court.

DSS: How do you and your coaching staff retain perspective amidst all the anxiety generated by the ups and downs of a season?

McKillop: Part of building a program is being able to stay in a position of respect. I’m thrilled that our players have done that. It’s a real tribute to them. Instead of having just a great season, what we want most is to have a great program. A great program commands respect year after year.

Football captain commissioned 2nd Lt.

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

As captain of the ’98 Davidson football team, Tom Dugan helped lead the Wildcats to the winningest season in school history. Now, the twenty-three-year-old from Maryland has assumed a far more weighty leadership role. This one comes with the rank of lieutenant.

Dugan graduated from Davidson after the fall semester and this past Saturday was commissioned a second lieutenant in the United States Army. The quarterback, who holds the school’s record for most career total yards, will ship out to Fort Leonardwood, Missouri to commence service in the prestigious Army Corps of Engineers. But first, he will spend a few more months with the Davidson R.O.T.C. program through which he earned his commission. Dugan will serve as a Gold Bar Recruiter through May 15; his duties will include helping to recruit future students.

“It will be nice for prospective students to see what people have gone through for four years, and where they ended up, they’ll be able to relate to him,” explained Captain William Geiger.

“[Dugan]’s a natural born leader. He’s going to be a real asset to this nation’s military,” lauded teammate Tom Ting. “His leadership to our football team was visible at practice, on the game field, in the locker room, and off the field.”After year. I really believe that’s why we’re getting respect right now, even after we’ve lost a couple of games we weren’t supposed to. People are disappointed with our losses because they have such high expectations for us. Those expectations come from our success.

DSS: What will it take to right the ship and ensure stability down the stretch, to ensure another fabulous February?

McKillop: Our guys just have to believe in the system and believe in themselves. They have to let offense happen and make defense happen. Right now, they’re trying too much to make offense happen. We have to avoid playing with too much of a sense of urgency on offense. That’s crippling. We’re not making our opponents defend, not making them expend energy, and so they have full stamina stored up for offense, and they wear our defense down. They use twenty or twenty-five seconds of the shot clock and make us endure their best shot every time. We also need to get to the free throw line more consistently and make our free throws. I don’t think any of our difficulties have been technical. Our techniques are good. Our system is good. We’re in fine shape. If the five guys in our system are functioning, we’re gonna have success. This is a very smart and experienced team. They understand the dynamics of what’s going on. There’s no need for our captains to step up and crack the whip. People are working hard. These guys want to win. They want to get better.

DSS: If it plays up to its utmost potential, what is this year’s team capable of accomplishing?

McKillop: We’ve set as our goal this year, to get better every game. That’s the standard we operate by. Clearly, we want to be at our best at the end of the season when the conference tournament rolls around. This team has learned a tremendous amount through the ups and downs it’s experienced over these first couple of months. Only through the exposure of yourself do you find out who you truly are. This team has exposed itself. This team has taken innumerable risks. This team has dared to dream, dared to be a better team than last year, dared to establish higher goals. In the process of risking and daring, and striving and dreaming, sometimes you get knocked to the mat. We’ve gotten knocked to the mat, but learned from it. We may get knocked to the mat again, but as long as we continue to learn from it, when it comes time for that critical weekend in February, we'll be where we want to be: at our best. Do we really want to go unscathed in conference play and then learn our lessons in the tournament? No. That happened three years ago. It wasn’t much fun.

MEN’S TRACK

Men’s track begins season in strong fashion
By Keith Gordon
Sports Writer

The 1999 edition of the Wildcat men’s track team opened its indoor season last Saturday in a three-team meet at UNC-Asheville. Although not at full force due to injuries and training, the team posted impressive finishes in many events. Coach Gary Andrew echoed these sentiments: “Saturday was a strong effort overall and a great start to the season. We performed well against the competition, and many of the returning runners ran faster times than at last year’s meet.”

Leading the way was freshman standout Dan Gibson, who won the 3000m in a time of 9:34.35. Also placing for the men were Keith Chapman (4th) and Paul Irwin (5th). Gibson, the team’s #1 recruit, finished fourth last year at the Ohio Division I State Championships and hopes to anchor the mid-distance corps throughout the season. William Isenhour and Davey Bacon led the team in the mile, finishing 3rd and 4th respectively. The sprint group was also well represented, as Addam Marcotte placed 5th in the 40-yard dash and Michael Albert finished 4th in the 500m. The 4 x 400m relay team, comprised of John Moore, Grant Bleecher, Stan Baker, and Michael Albert, brought home a 3rd place finish for the Cats.

The men will travel to the IKON Invitational (at East Tennessee State) the weekend of January 30. There they will face some of the stiffest competition in the Southeast, as IKON is one of the premier indoor meets during the season. ETSU boasts a wonderful 300m track known for fast times and great performances, in stark contrast to the tight-turned 160m track the men competed on at UNC-A.

Decades Film Festival
Look for movies from the past five decades every night this week at 9:30 pm in the Home Room. Free!

Monday Jan. 18
‘50s movie: Rebel Without a Cause
Jumpin' Java 8 pm–12:30 am Outpost coffee house

Tuesday Jan. 19
Reynolds Lecture: Arthur Danto "The Sistine Ceiling: Restoration and Meaning" 7:30 pm Love Aud.
‘60s movie: American Graffiti

Wednesday Jan. 20
Arthur Danto: "Can the Eye Be Legitimately Regarded as Historical?" 3 pm VAC 117
‘70s movie: Dazed and Confused

Thursday Jan. 21
‘80s movie: Fast Times at Ridgemont High
Jumpin' Java 8 pm–12:30 am Outpost

Friday Jan. 22
‘90s movie: Wag the Dog
Jumpin' Java 10 am–12:15 am 900 Room

Saturday Jan. 23
Chili Cook-off 6 pm 900 Room $3
Bring a pot of your favorite chili recipe and enter this delicious cook-off contest! Or, come sample some great chili and listen to music. Contestants enter free. If you plan to bring chili, or need more info, call Sara Beth, 892-2192

While Dugan was studying at Davidson, his military instructors had high words of praise for the promising cadet, “He’s calm under pressure,” praised Captain Geiger, “and never afraid to ask questions.”