DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN
“The V.A.C.’s foremost college weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

Eating disorders discussed.
NEWS 2

Not this week! (Sorry Kristen!)
OPINIONS 3

Horoscopes return, as does M.P. your psychic advisor!
A&L 4

Cats falter in SoCon Tournament
But praise God for Bob McKillop
SPORTS 5

Clark G. Ross promoted to lead academic programs
By COLLEGE RELATIONS

Davidson College President Robert F. Vagt has announced the appointment of Clark G. Ross, longtime chair of the economics department, as the College’s new vice president for academic affairs and dean of faculty. Ross has held the position on an interim basis since July 1998 while the College conducted a national search for a successor to former academic dean Robert Williams. In making his announcement, Vagt said, “The selection of Dr. Ross upholds the tradition of having a superb scholar-teacher lead the academic enterprise that is central to the mission of the College.”

Ross, the College’s Frontis W. Johnston Professor of Economics, has taught at Davidson since 1979 and served as chair of the economics department since 1983. He has won two of Davidson’s top teaching awards, and he has published books, articles, and newspaper op-ed pieces about introductory economics, the post-Communist Soviet economy, agricultural production in West Africa, labor’s role in corporate decision-making, youth unemployment in North Carolina, and construction industry wage stabilization.

Ross will be charged with managing Davidson’s 150 full-time faculty members and a $17.7 million academic affairs budget to the benefit of the College’s 1,750 degree-seeking students. He said he brings a healthy respect for the College’s current faculty and operations to the job and looks forward to helping advance the academic program in an era when its demands exceed available resources. In that regard, he feels that the skills of his chosen profession are well matched to his new duties. “The heart of economics is making choices in a world of limited resources,” he said. “That involves looking broadly at the advantages and disadvantages of issues and then sorting the priorities. From that point of view, my discipline and approach are consistent with the challenges of this new responsibility. The important thing to remember is that teaching is our mission, and we must determine priorities with that foremost in mind.”

Ross has also been prepared for his role in college administration through service on important committees such as the advisory council on finance, the faculty tenure committee, the educational policy committee, and the faculty executive committee. He has been a leader in the development of international studies on campus through the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies and has worked steadfastly for ethnic diversity in the student body and on the faculty. A much-heralded teacher, Ross won Davidson’s Omicron Delta Kappa Teaching Award in 1990 and the Thomas Jefferson Teaching Award in 1991. He is teaching “US Economic History” this semester and will teach “Labor History” next fall. He asserted that his new duties will not keep him out of the classroom. “I feel strongly that the vice president for academic affairs should be a teacher,” he said. “I would feel

The selection of Dr. Ross upholds the tradition ofHaving a superb scholar-teacher lead the academic enterprise is central to the mission of the College. I would be totally remiss if I wasn’t teaching a course.

New Dean of Faculty and Academics continued on next page

'Cats celebrate victory over top-seeded UNCG
By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

The tears that rolled down the cheeks of the Wildcats on Sunday afternoon do no justice to the phenomenal season enjoyed by John Filar and the 1998-99 women’s basketball team. Eventually, the tears subsided and the totality of the picture came into focus, and the pain of the disappointing defeat gave way to a sense of satisfaction and pride in season-long accomplishment.

“We knew that we had not just a very special team,” said head coach John Filar, “but a special group of young ladies this year. This is the place we wanted to be, though not the result we wanted to have.”

But four short years ago, Filar’s Wildcats were a fledgling team without a single Southern Conference victory in the current decade. Last Sunday, the 1998-99 squad made their mark in Davidson history, becoming the first women’s team ever to reach the Southern Conference Tournament championship game.

“I’m really excited that we were able to come here and build up the program the way we have, but it’s really hard to end this way,” said senior Kerry Brown.

The best-ever tournament performance capped off an 18-10 season in which the Wildcats matched last season’s record for the winningest in program history. Other season highlights included an invitation to the pre-season WNIT Tournament, a defeat of the ACC’s Wake Forest University, and a championship trophy from December’s Roundball Invitational Tournament.

Wildcats comprised four of the ten athletes recognized out of a field of 130 competing in the SCT for All-Tournament Team honors. The tenacious senior twins, Kerry and Jamie Brown, were selected to the first team (becoming only the second and third ‘Cats ever so honored), and juniors Katy Kamp and Jen O’Brien garnered second-team recognition.

Davidson earned the fourth seed in the tournament with a conference record of 11-7. This year’s Southern Conference regular season was marked by the most competitive play in years; only three games separated the first and fourth-ranked teams, and every team in the conference dropped at least four contests. The Wildcats rolled past All-American candidate Jackie Smith and Furman University on Friday and then stunned the tournament's top-seeded UNC-Greensboro with a spectacular buzzer-beater on Saturday night before meeting their match in Appalachian State University in Sunday’s championship.

Said Jessica Montrella, who sat the game out after suffering a serious knee injury in the semi-final game, “I still feel like I didn’t reach a goal and for me that’s a painful thing. But the feeling I felt after (Saturday’s) game might have been the best feeling of my entire life. To me, I don’t even know if winning this (championship) game would have felt as good as it felt last night. That game was just the climax of what this team is. We pulled it together and laid our hearts on the line to win that game, and that to me is the feeling that I needed to end my season with.”

Women’s Basketball continued on pages 6 and 7

ARTS & LIVING

SPORTS

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036