---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Look what the mailman brought to The Davidsonian!

@ Upon opening the first package, Wes was surprised to find a Chinese take-out carton inside. Lo and behold, it
contained several fortune cookies. Lucky for us that JOBTRAK had us in mind — where else could you get such
a zany treat at an early morning hour?

A Pulitzer Prize is in your future. Congratulations, JOBTRAK.COM

@ On the other hand, when John opened the other, larger package, a small, green paper bundle with a very
explicit warning greeted his eyes. What exactly was this implying? Upon further examination, there was a CD buried within the
bundle with another explicit set of directions.

WARNING

CONTENTS MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR HIGHLY SUICIDAL PERSONS.

EDITORIALS

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS A special thank you!

Dear President Vagt and the Davidson Student Body,

We would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to you, our Davidson friends and family, for your overwhelming expression of
love and sympathy shown to us during our grief over the loss of our dear son and brother, Chris. It
was a wonderful testimony to the countless ways in which Chris touched and influenced the lives of us all.

There is no way that we can possibly acknowledge each of you individually, but please know how much you have
meant to us. It is now readily apparent why Chris considered Davidson College his home and all of you his
family, for, indeed, that is what you were to him.

The extent of our loss can never be measured or put into words. Your prayers, love, and emotional support will
continue to sustain us and comfort us during this most difficult time in our lives. We embrace one of Chris’
favorite passages, “I can do all things through Christ, who strengthens me.” (Phil 4:13)

Please keep Chris always in your thoughts and prayers.

With our deepest respect, love and appreciation, Mike, Mary, and Andrea Malamisura

Understanding JOBTRAK.COM

Dear Editor,

Each day, college students from across the country send questions regarding their career search to JOBTRAK.COM, the nation’s largest job
listing and resume service targeting college students and recent grads. Following is JOBTRAK.COM’s Ask the Employers column that offers insight
from college recruiters representing some of the country’s leading employers. The topics this week include Jobs for history majors, How
to know if the job is the right fit, and benefits of graduating early.

JOBTRAK.COM’s Ask the Employers is distributed every Wednesday and can be either directly printed or edited to your liking. We
hope that by running this column in your student newspaper, we will answer students' career questions and provide a competitive
advantage in the job market.

Please visit our website at www.jobtrak.com for more information on JOBTRAK.COM’s Ask the Employers, which can be found from the
home page under “About JOBTRAK.COM” and then “Press Releases.” If you are interested in receiving this information electronically please e-mail
me at kresh@jobtrak.com. As always, please feel free to contact me with questions.

Sincerely, Keri Resh Public Relations Manager 888-562-8725 kresh@jobtrak.com Students can submit their job searching questions to: Keri Resh JOBTRAK.COM 1964
Westwood Blvd, Third Floor Los Angeles, CA 90025 kresh@jobtrak.com Or visit the JOBTRAK Career Forum at http://www.jobtrak.com/forum/

In response to recent criticism regarding “Tarik Khan’s Top Ten”

Dear Editors,

One of the reasons why I sometimes enjoy reading the Davidsonian is because of the occasional funny articles written by
students. People tell me they like reading the Top Ten Lists that I have on my door, and I enjoyed
having one printed in September 28th’s paper.

Every week this semester I have submitted a different list for submission, however only two of my articles have been
published. My articles were written in good taste and good fun. But articles like “Top Ten Signs Your Roommate is
in the Ku Klux Klan” and “Top Ten Signs Your Dog is Gay” weren't printed. An editor for the paper
told me today that the editor-in-chief has been throwing away my lists.

I spend a fairly good amount of time working on my articles. I don’t complain when the Davidsonian edits my
material, even when the editing ends up messing up a joke. I’m hurt, though, when I hear second-hand that the
editor-in-chief won't even consider printing my articles anymore. I think the students have a right to be represented and heard
in the Davidsonian. I think the Davidsonian is the paper of the student body and not of one editor. I’d
appreciate it if the Davidsonian would print my Top Ten Lists and stop throwing them away.

Thanks, Tarik
