10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Seven Sons and Daughters

Fort Worth police on Thursday said Larry Gene Ashbrook, 47, stormed into a teen prayer rally at the Wedgwood Baptist Church spouting anti-Baptist rhetoric Wednesday night as he opened fire. At least three of those shot fatally were youths. He also wounded seven people, three seriously.

Seven people died in Fort Worth last Wednesday as a result of one emotionally disturbed man’s actions. Seven sons and daughters, seven boyfriends and girlfriends, seven sisters and brothers, all dead. Never again will they smile at the antics of Mr. Bean, never will they eat banana pudding, and never again will they make their mothers laugh. Perhaps they are lucky; they will never know true grief, the kind that never experiences “closure.” No, that sort of heartache will be reserved for their families, the seven fathers and seven mothers and so many sisters and brothers and friends. Gone are Cassandra and Joseph and Christie, all three 14 years old. Perhaps they were best friends, now together in heaven. Gone is Justin (17), who just maybe wanted to play baseball for his dad’s alma mater. Dead too are Shawn and Susan (both 23), who might have just graduated college and were trying to line up their first jobs. Sydney died, too. She was 36, maybe in love for the first time in her life. Seven young lives so rudely interrupted...

Sounds familiar, doesn’t it? How many times have we heard similar stories in the past year? We have witnessed killings in Los Angeles, “Gunman shoots 5 at Jewish community center,” (August 10); in Pelham, “3 shot dead in Alabama,” (August 5); in Atlanta, “12 shot dead in Buckhead” (July 29); in the Midwest, “Midwest shooting spree ends with apparent suicide of suspect,” (July 5); and in Littleton, “Gunmen open fire at Colorado school, kill 13,” (April 20). When are we finally going to get sick of gunmen ruining families’ lives? Can’t we see that all of this is preventable? When will we finally have the guts to do what should have been done years ago, when our modern armed forces replaced colonial militias? When are we finally going to abolish gun ownership?

We are an educated nation, and we understand that during colonial times, gun ownership was an important means for the colonists to protect themselves from British supporters and other malcontents. Many of them also used guns for hunting, putting food on their tables. However, since those early times, we have developed sophisticated weaponry to defend our borders, capable of killing millions. We now have supermarkets with more food than we could ever consume, almost one on every corner. Ownership of guns by private citizens is no longer needed.

Gun owners and supporters contend that gun ownership is a Constitutionally protected right, never to be abolished. As an educated audience, I will assume people reading this article understand the importance of the Second Amendment's actual wording, “A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.” The Supreme Court decided in the 1939 case U.S. v. Miller that possession of a firearm is not protected by the Second Amendment unless it has some reasonable relationship to the preservation or efficiency of a well regulated militia (the Supreme Court has stated that today’s militia is the National Guard). Clearly, the right to keep and bear arms was given in the context of the aforementioned Militia, and is not relevant to private households. Many argue that guns are needed to protect the home from burglars, murderers, rapists, and the like. That is a myth. Keeping a handgun in the home for self-defense places a gun owner and his/her family in great jeopardy. Research indicates that residents of homes where a gun is present are five times more likely to experience a suicide and three times more likely to experience a homicide than residents of homes without guns (1). Additionally, a gun kept in the home is 43 times more likely to kill a member of the household (or a friend) than an intruder (2). In fact, research indicates that the use of a firearm to resist a violent assault actually increases the victim’s risk of injury and death (3). Obviously, a gun in the home is more a liability than an asset.

I haven’t touched on some important issues in this article, namely the possibility of a black market for guns (see illegal drug market) and the question of whether or not police should have them (read: abuse of power). I'll leave those issues alone for now, except to say that I would support both educating our youth concerning guns and instituting harsh penalties for gun offenders. I also think police could have non-lethal alternatives to subdue criminals and protect the innocent, perhaps weapons that deliver high voltages to knock criminals unconscious. At any rate, I feel these issues are secondary to the issue of gun control. Eliminating guns would eliminate a lot of our violent crime, and any repercussions would not be worse than the present situation.

(1) Kellermann et al, “Suicide in the Home in Relation to Gun Ownership,” The New England Journal of Medicine, Vol. 327, No. 7, August 13, 1992, pp. 467-472.
(2) Prodzinski, Hackman, and Somes, “Gun Ownership as a Risk Factor for Homicide in the Home,” The New England Journal of Medicine, Vol. 329, No. 15, October 7, 1993, pp. 1084-1001.
(3) Kellermann and Reay. “Protection or Peril? An Analysis of Firearm-Related Deaths in the Home.” The New England Journal of Medicine, vol. 314, no. 24, June 1986, pp. 1557-1560.

Eric Ferguson ’00

Congratulations class of 2003, your weeks of waiting are over! You are finally welcome Down the Hill. Was First Night everything you wanted? Do you remember anyone’s name? Well, at least you’ve experienced the social scene on the court. But, you should know that the eating houses and fraternities aren't just about beer and bass. In fact, joining a house is a great opportunity to give back to the community. Phi Delta Theta sponsors a golf tournament to benefit Lou Gehrig’s disease, and Rusk and Kappa Sigma co-sponsor 100 innings of softball benefiting Habitat for Humanity. All of the Houses organize Relay for Life teams, and compete in crazy bowl-offs during basketball games. (Don’t worry, you will understand later.) I know you can’t wait to get into the Court scene, but before you jump in, you should probably know some things...

Eating houses are off limits to you freshmen girls unless:
1) there is an open, registered party
2) You are invited to bring a date to a date function or
3) your hall is invited downfor dinner. Also, if you are hanging out in an upper-classwoman’s room with four or more members of the same house, it can be considered rushing. Petty, yes, but still important, so upper-classwomen, just remember to invite your friends from other houses to that really fun girls' night. Don’t take it personally. We can’t wait to hang out with you, but we don’t want to do any rushing and risk probation, or even worse. Alison Board, vice-president of Connor House, adds, “Nobody wants to have a rushing atmosphere, and the girls should try their best to respect that. They just shouldn’t let their feelings be hurt.” That said, your best bet is to grab that cute guy from psych and go to all the date functions. Borrow that dress of your roommate’s, order pizza to someone’s room and have fun. And please come down for dinner. I know a lot of you play sports, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999 Welcome Down the Hill and have to come down stinky, but is Commons really too good to pass up? All of these functions give you a good look at each house, but you might want to know more. We can answer questions such as, “What house are you in?” but please do not ask a member of an eating house about other houses. Looking for biases on other houses is not fair to the members of those houses or the girls you are asking. Marian Lucius, vice president of Warner Hall, adds, “Each house has many different types of people. You can’t really stereotype the personality of one house.” Furthermore, all the members of eating houses want to stress that rushing is not allowed. If you are being rushed by a member of a house, please tell your hall counselor or Megan O’Brien, president of PCC. Help us keep the self-selection process as fair and open as it has been in past years. Guys, I can’t really give you my own impressions about fraternities. Rush looks like a lot of fun. All the houses want to throw you parties and get you interested. So keep an open mind and let ‘em rush you. You have a little while to accept a bid, so enjoy it. Evan Shay, rush chairman for Phi Delta Theta, noted that “A lot of guys have preconceived notions about fraternities that may not be true, and they should explore all of the houses before making a decision.” Kappa Alpha’s rush chair Alex O’Kulski advises freshmen basically “to take advantage of rush and just have fun.” The best advice I received last year is to go where my friends go. Regardless of where we all end up, we go to a small school and we just can’t really help but be friends with everybody. So have fun, and don’t worry about choosing a house until second term. I guess all I’m saying is that I can’t wait to get to know all of you, so please come down. I hope you all survived First Night Down and I hope you all have as great a freshman year on the court as I did. Ally Escott ’02 “She's got all the qualities a couple of superficial guys like us need!” For the Coolest StickWorld Apparel, Greeting Cards, Games, & Accessories, Visit Us at: www.stickworld.com “I know Dad, I know. Only use the car phone for emergencies. Now, did Jimmy call or not?” For the Coolest StickWorld Apparel, Greeting Cards, Games, & Accessories, Visit Us at: www.stickworld.com * In an attempt to try and humanize the faculty, I have interviewed a professor, and written a brief biographical sketch that follows. If you think you know who it is, guess and you might be this week's winner! If you do guess correctly first you get to pick the next professor to be interviewed. Her October 11th birthday makes her a Libra. The daughter of a pharmacist in Middletown, Ohio, she grew up with two brothers in the Ozzie and Harriet 1950s. Describing her childhood as idyllic, she claims that David Lynch would satirize her experience as in the movie “Blue Velvet.” To sum up, it was uncomplicated compared to what awaited. Her senior year of high school she seriously desired to be awarded the superlative of “Cutest Clothes,” or account for fifty percent of “Cutest Couple,” but sadly she had to settle for “Most Likely to Succeed.” After high school, she set out for Ohio State where she excelled in English and French. As an undergraduate, she had long flowing hair and a “hippie-like” posture. Upon graduation from Ohio State, she was accepted to Harvard University Graduate School and studied there from 1974 to 1980. Describing this experience as harrowing due to a strenuous academic agenda, she “tried not to flunk out and partied as much as she could.” The job market for her particular field was flooded, giving rise to bitter competition. Apparently, she did better than avoiding failure, being one of three graduating Ph.D. students to immediately receive a job as a professor. She was hired at Davidson College and has taught here ever since. If she had not been able to find work teaching, she more than likely would have pursued landscape architecture. She loves to work with structures and restores old houses, of which she has completed two. Being married and a mother of four children, she leads a busy life. Her oldest is twenty-two and works for the Peace Corps in Morocco. Jamie is followed by Ben, twenty; Rachael, seventeen; and Hat is her nine-year-old. Her husband also works at Davidson College as Vice President of College Relations. One brother has made her the aunt of two-year-old triplet girls. She awes at her nieces, describing them as a cohesive unit; while each retains a unique attitude and identity. Asked if she had any “stupid human tricks,” she quickly wrapped her right arm around her neck, under her chin, and touched her right ear. I was very impressed. She can also turn her tongue upside down. The best concert she has ever been to is that of jazz pianist Keith Jarrett. As a lover of cinema, she had a hard time picking out a favorite movie, but settled on Stanley Kubrick's “Lolita.” She thinks the best kind of student is one who is easy to be close to, with a good sense of humor; the worst being those who aren't open to teaching and think they know it all. Her favorite literary work is Shakespeare's “Twelfth Night,” which she considers fitting for a Libra because it balances the darkness and lightness of life so finely. She loves to dance. Submit your guess along with the professor you would like to know more about to brmemillan@davidson.edu. Brandt McMillan ’01