16 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999

Davidson honors winningest class ever

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Though every Wildcat in uniform saw court time on Saturday, the afternoon undoubtedly belonged to a trio of young ladies from Pennsylvania. Sisters Jamie and Kerry Brown, along with Jessica Montrella, were honored in Saturday’s senior day celebrations as the winningest class in program history.

In the two seasons before this Class of 1999 donned Wildcat red and black, Davidson’s women’s basketball team lost all of their 21 conference contests. The Browns and Montrella all made debuts as starters in their freshman year, and over their four-year career, Davidson boasted the only Southern Conference program to post four winning seasons.

“We’re never going to be able to replace them,” says Coach Filar. “Jamie, Kerry, and Jess are very dear to me because they are our first really big recruiting class. They put faith in me, and I really appreciated that. They trusted us, they went out on a limb for us by coming to Davidson.”

With 7 points on Saturday, Kerry Brown hit the 800-point plateau. The 5'11” guard has also posted over 270 assists, putting her second on the school’s all-time list. Kerry was named All-Southern Conference second team following her junior campaign and was voted Southern Conference Player of the Week just this past week.

Seniors Jess Montrella, Jamie Brown, and Kerry Brown have won more games in Wildcat red and black than any other women basketball players. Kerry’s sister Jamie closed out this season with over 900 career points, almost 500 career rebounds, and well over 200 assists. Jamie also posted the best career free throw percentage (78.6%) in school history and garnered Southern Conference Player of the Week honors early last December.

The team’s third senior, forward Jess Montrella, accumulated 1040 career points (placing her 4th all-time) and 85 blocked shots through the close of regular season action, serving as a threat both in the paint and on the perimeter, both on offense and defense.

The trio turned in a traditionally impressive and emotional performance on Saturday, leading Davidson to a 78-53 victory over Wofford. The Class of '99 combined for 35 points, 20 rebounds, 8 assists, 7 steals, and 2 blocked shots. Their fun-loving demeanors on the court were matched only by the smiles adorning the faces of the fans, young and old, in attendance to watch these three ball players pace the hardwood one last time.

As each poured their hearts into one final home game, Coach John Filar brought each of them off the floor in succession as the clock waned toward the final buzzer. Each received thunderous applause as tears dripped down smiling faces as they left the floor one final time and were greeted in the open arms of their teammates and coaching staff.

After the game, the three walked through the stands personally thanking their loyal supporters who had followed the girls across their careers, and then joined their teammates on press row to sign autographs for the dozens of young fans in attendance.

“It was a great sending-off party for our seniors,” said John Filar. “It was a great atmosphere on the court with the players, their parents, and the Kids In Red. This team has beena fantastic role model throughout the year, whether we win or lose. “I think these girls are one of the most respected teams around campus. They’ve become so involved in the community, and our stature in the community has grown so much.”

The Class of 1999 will leave their names splattered throughout the Davidson College record books. But they will surely be remembered for their relentless determination and the infectious smiles that drew so many loyal supporters to what was just four short years ago an upstart women’s basketball program.

SCT Preview
By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

It all comes down to this. Davidson commences Southern Conference Tournament play this Friday in Greensboro, North Carolina. With an 11-7 regular season conference record, the Wildcats earned the fourth seed in the tournament and will meet #5 seed Furman University in the tournament opener on Friday morning.

Davidson enters the tournament red hot after three convincing victories over Furman, Appalachian State, and Wofford to close out the season. “As in any sport, when you’re getting close to the playoffs, you want momentum on your side,” said Coach Filar. “Little by little, we’re picking up some big-time momentum.”

Davidson entered this season with some lofty expectations, including a first-place predicted finish in the Southern Conference Media Poll. Though a rocky late January forced the ‘Cats out of contention for a first-place regular season finish, they’re still considered among the conference’s elite. “There’s no doubt in my mind that we’re among the best teams in the conference,” said Filar. “It’s going to be a matter of who can play as well as they can play, who can get a little bit lucky, and who can stay healthy over those three days.”

Davidson enters the tournament having beaten 6 of their 8 potential tournament opponents in regular season play. The only two teams to have swept the ‘Cats this season are first-place UNC-Greensboro and second-place Georgia Southern, and Davidson played each of these teams within 5 points. Davidson has defeated first-round opponent Furman University twice this season, marking the first time in Davidson history that the ‘Cats have swept the regular season series against the Lady Paladins. Furman’s Jackie Smith, a leading candidate for Southern Conference Player of the Year and even possible All-American honors, will be looking to exact some revenge on this Wildcat squad in the tournament opener.

“Mentally, I don’t think this team could be any better right now. Our confidence is right where you want it to be going into the tournament. They’re tight out there,” Filar says. “This is a group that has always been tight off the court this season. And now, they’re coming together and playing tight on the court. We’re playing a lot better team ball. We’ve got different leading scorers, different leading rebounders. We’ve become such a balanced act out there.”

To say that this squad is hungry would be a rather gross understatement. Says senior Jessica Montrella, “For this season to be as good as it should be, we need to win the tournament. I don’t want to settle for anything else. We want a banner.” Coach Filar couldn’t agree more. “There is nothing that this coaching staff and this team would want to do more than send this senior class off with a Southern Conference tournament.”