Rhodes Scholar®

+ Story continued from front page

Davidson faculty members warmly greeted news of Hunt’s success. “If there is a more deserving kid at Davidson, I haven’t
met him,” said Zoran Kuzmanovich, who serves as his major advisor in the English department. “Christian is capable of facing
great misfortune with serenity and dignity; he is one of the very few people I’ve met who can actually use
adversity as fuel for achievement. And his achievements are considerable because in both Christian’s prose and his music one hears
echoes of a fine mind that documents, celebrates, and even grieves the passing of all that is tender and fragile
in people and places,” added Kuzmanovich.

Teaching Hunt was an extraordinary learning experience, said Denham. “He sees things in new ways. He wrote a scholarship essay
explaining his interest in cities as large and complex tonal instruments, and describing how he would study that as a
reflection of cultures.”

Davidson faculty member Mark McCulloh served as Hunt’s resident advisor during the 1998-99 academic year abroad in Würzburg, Germany. McCulloh
marveled at the speed with which Hunt learned the German language. “His ear for language and dialect are so good
that he now speaks near-perfect German with a delightful Franconian lilt! He can pass not only as a German, but
as a Bavarian! He’s one of those students who grasped the structure of the language, which is so important, with
ease.”

Hunt bought a pawned Fender guitar, played and sang in an Irish pub in Würzburg with locals and Davidson friends,
and worked as McCulloh’s office assistant. McCulloh continued, “I can’t tell you how much this news pleases me. Christian is
one of the brightest and most humane students I’ve encountered in my 17 years at Davidson. It’s wonderful when someone
as modest as this young man gets to the pinnacle. He brings a lot of humanity to everything he does.”
Denham, his academic advisor, said Hunt’s embrace of German culture last year matured him and gave him a good platform
for his Rhodes application. Denham also revealed that Hunt considered applying only after persistent last-minute prodding and recommendation-writing by members
of the college’s Graduate Fellowships committee.

Hunt admitted the tardiness, then said the opportunity for another experience abroad and unparalleled resources at Oxford in English language
and literature were too great to ignore.

The Rhodes Scholarships were initiated after the death of Cecil Rhodes in 1902, and bring outstanding students from many countries
around the world to the University of Oxford. American Rhodes Scholars are selected through a decentralized process by which regional
selection committees choose 32 scholars each year from among those nominated by selection committees in each of the 50 states.

Intellectual distinction is a necessary condition for selection, but not sufficient in itself. Selection committees are charged to seek excellence
in qualities of mind and in qualities of person which, in combination, offer the promise of effective service to the
world in the decades ahead. The scholarship covers all expenses for two years of study in the University of Oxford,
with the possibility of renewal for a third year.

Your image is everything. How much it costs can be our little secret.

(Next to Sushi at the Lake) 77 W. Catawba Ave Exit 28

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY $6.99

Limit one coupon per customer. Good at OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99 Twnberry location only.

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1999

aShop Since 1951

college’s Graduate Fellowships committee.

Hunt admitted the tardiness, then said the opportunity for another experience abroad and unparalleled resources at Oxford in English language
and literature were too great to ignore.

The Rhodes Scholarships were initiated after the death of Cecil Rhodes in 1902, and bring outstanding students from many countries
around the world to the University of Oxford. American Rhodes Scholars are selected through a decentralized process by which regional
selection committees choose 32 scholars each year from among those nominated by selection committees in each of the 50 states.

Intellectual distinction is a necessary condition for selection, but not sufficient in itself. Selection committees are charged to seek excellence
in qualities of mind and in qualities of person which, in combination, offer the promise of effective service to the
world in the decades ahead. The scholarship covers all expenses for two years of study in the University of Oxford,
with the possibility of renewal for a third year.

st Burritos

Breakfast Omelets Pancakes

Eat-in Take-out 104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS SEEKING PAID TUTORS THE AVID PROGRAM (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)

A program designed to prepare middle-achieving students in grades 6-12 for four-year college and university entry and success.

If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are
a candidate for this position.

You must be:

- Enrolled in a college or university with good academic standings
- Able to work in a supportive manner with middle level and high school students and teachers
- Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
- Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
- Willing to receive three hours training in the AVID teaching methodologies
- An excellent role model for motivated, organized and successful students
- Representative of a balanced academic background

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year Salary: $17.50 per hour For additional information, please complete and return to the
following:

Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools AVID Office 700 East Stonewall Street Suite 506 Charlotte, North Carolina 28202 (704) 343-6975

AVID TUTORS (Personal Information)

Name: Mailing Address: Telephone: College/University: Middle or High School preference: Message Telephone:
