2. —_—__‘THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

“Vandals” will come alive at book celebration

By COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

A noted Charlotte theatrical director and four actors are creating a unique celebration of the new poetry book, “The Vandals,”
by Davidson English professor Alan Michael Parker (BOA Editions - Limited, 1999). Parker won a Pushcart Prize for Language Poetry
last spring for “Vandals, Horses,” a poem appearing in the book, so it’s appropriate that the publication party be a
little special!

Anne Lambert, founder of Charlotte’s “Chickspeare” all-female Shakespeare ensemble, is staging a dramatic production of some of the poems in
“The Vandals” beginning at 8 p.m. on Thursday, Sept. 16, in the Belk Visual Arts Center on the Davidson campus.
The public is invited to the free performance and refreshments will be served. The book will be available for sale
and Parker will sign it for purchasers.

The actors involved in the hour-long production will be Chickspeare veterans Joanna Gerdy and Nicia Feldman, acting teacher Chip Cauldwell,
and Davidson College junior Ed Ellington. Parker explained, “Instead of having me stand up and read from my work, we
wanted to take what’s in the book and put it on stage.”

Parker wrote 37 poems for “The Vandals.” Each poem stands by itself, and many have been previously published in journals.
But characters and motifs reappear throughout the poems, making the book more of a series than a collection. Parker said,
“The Vandals are a tribe of threatening, comical Mediterranean Europeans.”

A new voice

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

This semester four Davidson students hope to resurrect the College Democrats. Co-presidents Wendy Adams ’02 and Maggie Kozicharow ’02, vice-president
Mark Cody ’01, and secretary Hannah Brown ’02 are presently writing a new charter for the organization which they hope
to present to the SGA in the coming weeks.

The group has already set itself some high goals. They characterized themselves first as “educators” but also as facilitators in
fostering healthy debate about important issues. In addition to its political goals, Adams stressed the importance of making this organization
more solid than its predecessor. She emphasized three main objectives. First, the organization must maintain an active membership. Second, the
members must keep an active and open dialogue with local representatives. Finally, they must encourage new leadership. To this end,
the present leaders plan to communicate with the local college democratic headquarters in Charlotte as well as attend the college
democratic convention October 22-23 in Raleigh.

Surprisingly, Kozicharow gave some credit for the idea behind this venture to College Republicans president Jesse Smallwood. She recalled that
a conversation between the two developed into an extensive political debate. Afterwards, Smallwood suggested that his opponent create an organization
capable of presenting this debate to the public. Kozicharow agreed that the Davidson campus needed a “democratic voice.” Correspondence with
Adams and Cody proved that there were other students with similar views and who would be willing to give it
a try.

“We want to allow the students at Davidson to have both sides of the picture as the election approaches, to
allow them to get actively involved, and to encourage them to vote.” Pending approval of the charter, they hope to
hold their first public meeting soon.important issues. Understandably, spreading information about democratic candidates and issues in preparation for next year’s
elections is a priority, as is mobilizing in the next two to three weeks. If the response is strong, they
should be able to supervise elections for their posts by the end of this year. In summary, Cody stated, “We
want to allow the students at Davidson to have both sides of the picture as the election approaches, to allow
them to get actively involved, and to encourage them to vote.”

intrinsically dramatic and raucous marauders who are transposed into the 20th century to toss monkey wrenches into the machinery of
modern life. The result is occasionally disturbing and sometimes hilarious, providing a mirror to see our culture of excess. I
think the poems can be rendered in a dramatically intriguing way.” Lambert likened the book to “a house with a
lot of different rooms.” She said, “The rooms are places like a car wash, a bar, the woods, and a
circus. The Vandals invade these spaces, cause havoc and then leave. The way Alan has described the scenes is very
visual, and it could be produced using a full theatrical set. But we don’t have the resources to stage it
fully, so we'll depend on some blocking and different voices for dramatic effect.”

Parker explained, “Instead of having me stand up and read from my work, we wanted to take what’s intrinsically dramatic
and raucous and put it on stage.” Though he will attend some of the rehearsals, Parker has pledged Lambert full
artistic license for the production. Lambert noted, “I don’t think we often hear of a poet who allows his work
to be taken over by another force. It’s an artistic experiment on Alan’s part to allow those voices he created
to be expressed by other people. For him, it’s a chance to see his characters come off of the page,
but it’s also a risk because they will be expressed by people other than himself.”

Parker is confident that the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center will make an excellent venue for the production,
though it has never been previously used for theatrical performances. “It’s a dramatic space,” Parker said. “It has balconies, a
big atrium with an upstairs and downstairs, and strange places for entrances and exits.” In addition to the Davidson publication
party, Parker will travel to New York for another celebration of the book on September 24 at New York University.
In addition, he will teach at NYU for two days. Parker was raised in the New York City area and
earned his M.F.A. in poetry at the Columbia University School of the Arts, where his instructors included Nobel Prize winner
Joseph Brodsky. His first book was a 1996 co-edited volume, The Routledge Anthology of Cross Gendered Verse. He published the
first book of his own poetry, “Days Like Prose,” in 1997, and it was named a “Notable Book” of the
year by the National Book Critics Circle. He is a regular contributor of book reviews for “The New Yorker” magazine,
and serves as North American editor for the forthcoming “Who's Who in 20th Century World Poetry.”

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors
CADER HOWARD
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
LAURA McCANDLISS

Web Editor
PETER CLARK

MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

Advertising Manager
JAKE HARRINGTON

Photographer
PETER CLARK

ARTS & LIVING
Senior Editor
MIKE ANDERSON

SPORTS
Senior Editor
ADAM SOTO

Photographer
ANNA JUDY

Advertising Designers
CINDY CLARK

Circulation Managers
INA SPRINGER
WHITNEY BLAKE

Copy Editors
BEN COVINGTON
BRENDA BONDESEN

Layout Editors
IRENE MIDDLETON
ALLISON SISK

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
ANNA JUDY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
