THE DAVIDSONIAN

“It was just another road trip” somewhere new and invigorating where fresh faces would beckon innocent conversation and merrymaking. It
was the Big Easy, the Big Party; it was Mardi Gras. Yet after days of soul searching, the occasional beer,
and several gut-wrenching laughs, I realized that while things do change, one thing remains absolutely constant. People still have no
idea where in hell or what in hell Davidson College is.

I tired of the, “Where do you go to school?,” answered by, “Davidson College,” and followed by, “Where in God’s
name is that?” My reply was a hoarse, “Hey bartender, three more of these Mind Erasers, PRONTO, EL DIABLO!” The,
“It’s outside Charlotte; it’s a fun place,” response would have brought on a hemorrhoids flare-up. I realized then (well, about
forty times then and prior to then) that people all across this wonderful land haven't any idea where we go
to school. And then I thought—well I tried to think—why is this? I came to no conclusion—except for the fact
that I was really enjoying myself outside of Davidson.

Well, I decided, maybe this article can offer some thoughts on this and well, life in general at this zoo
we all call Davidson. I realized that Davidson is merely a “Close Relatives to Man Exhibit” at the neighborhood zoo.
Look outside your window on a weekday and you will notice a bunch of Monkeys walking to class: then walking
out of class to the library, then walking to the Commons for a banana, then maybe sitting in their cages
doing more work, then eating another banana and exercising, and then doing more work in their cages (either a cage
in their rooms or in a cage in the library). I know that was a run-on sentence, but I refuse
to go to the “cage” and learn grammar.

Anyway, this life is the life of a monkey—except I think monkeys have more fun (and a whole lot more
sex out of wedlock, right Phil). We work hard, this is true, and sometimes a few of these Monkeys go
to drastic measures—THEY SOCIALIZE—but not many. The Monkeys are always working so that you don’t even see them. They are
always in their cages dreaming of bigger words, new equations and “the apex of heightened intellectuality (Is that a word?
I won't bother to consult Mr. Thesaurus).”

Why is it that most of the Monkeys stay in their cages and churn out volumes, or why is it
that zookeepers keep giving the monkeys work so that they stay chained to their cages in this zoo (analogous to
college) (and damn, probably another run-on)? For thirty thousand dollars and no name recognition is why the Monkeys do this.
Or maybe it is for a reply of catatonic stupor when Grandpa asks, “So what are you going to be
when you grow up?”

For my tuition alone, and maybe even my brother’s, Davidson College could afford a nationally televised commercial saying, “Davidson, Land
of the Monkeys, home of the people who sit in their cages and work.” Heck, for the two parking tickets
I got last week for parking my car in one of those damned (I like this word, I can see
you getting angry) yellow spaces, Davidson College could at least afford a big billboard on I-75 or I-77 or I-85.

I want people all across this great land to know that I bust my cheeks to get straight B’s and
have to tell them that “It’s twenty minutes outside of Charlotte, and no it’s not Dickinson or Donaldwood or Devry.”
Of course, Davidson College does hold a great reputation in North Carolina for those Monkeys who want to work 80
hours a week punching a calculator for a bank or for the Monkeys intent on dissecting and repairing organs for
another eight years in school.

But what about those of us who want to live on the West Coast or in the Northeast? Might as
well say you went to Vocational Technical School or the University of Cancun because chances seem good that you are
going to have to explain to the job interviewer that Davidson College is “just outside Charlotte—it is one heck of
a school where we are fed bananas through iron bars.” At least they will have heard of ITT Technical Institute—they
have commercials and billboards.

What I am trying to say is that people haven’t heard of our nature preserve. Get it through your heads.
We stand no better a chance of landing that job than your friend who played Zelda for four years, and
whose idea of work is loading his truck bed with kegs and going to party with a bunch of scantily
clad coeds. So, to all of you reading this article in your cage eating a banana, drop your Chemistry Manifold
in protest. Jump the fence and play with the other animals and share your banana!

In closing, I hope to God that I have offended the entire campus. I hope everyone thinks I am one
hell of a jackass. I have no disclaimer and I could care less. I hope somebody does write back saying
how wrong Mr. Murray was in his last article. To you, I have already prepared advice: Go outside, drop your
pants, and memorize the periodic table. Shoot yourself in the ass and play with a cantaloupe.

DAVE AND ERICH

The only column you ever need to read

Disclaimer: If you were disappointed about the lack of good articles in last week’s Davidsonian, we apologize. We have decided
(because we're lazy) to write articles as quickly as our translation team can translate them from the higher power that
speaks only to us. This preserves the quality of our articles. (We know that they are complete and utter garbage,
lacking literary value and thought). While reading these articles, if you become offended or angry (inevitable), we apologize. We do
not intend to offend or alienate anyone at Davidson (Those were lies. Conform to our predetermined standards or be ridiculed.)
Also, be aware that if your name appears in this article or if there is a reference to you, it
is not you. Lastly, if you are one of the few who actually read our articles, please read it thoroughly
and gather your thoughts before forming an opinion.and possibly voicing it. In other words, don’t write back. No one cares
what you think, especially us.

This week’s topic: Valentine’s Day

As we all know, unless you were in a coma (please don’t write a rebuttal article about that), Valentine’s Day
has come and gone. For us, it is just another excuse to view ourselves as the lonely, asexual, dimwitted losers
that we are. Our streak of 22 years without a valentine is intact. We are so pathetic that we sent
valentines to each other, and the post office tore them up because they felt we didn’t deserve them. Remember in
third and fourth grade when everyone in your class sent valentines to each other? No dice. Please note that we
are not bitter, which is reflected in the tone of this article.

Our campus networking has provided us with a list of do’s and do not’s for Valentine’s Day. Also, we have
come up with a list of suggestions for those who are not particularly elated every February 14th.

Do’s:
- Talk to her before sending candy, flowers, etc. This will remove the stalker label from your reputation.
- Bring your wallet.
- If your loved one is abroad, wait for the post-Valentine’s Day sales, save 50%, and say that the mail
system is broken.

Do not’s:
- Don’t sign the card “Your secret valentine.” Are you an idiot? How the heck do you expect to score
if he/she doesn’t know who you are?
- “I love you. No, I love you more. No, I love you to infinity.” This brings nausea to anyone
who is in a three-block radius of you. For all that is holy, please do this alone and away from
single people.

If you are bitter or spiteful because the 14th was miserable for you, take into account the following cheer-me-ups. First,
if you are really feeling down, send yourself a card. It can’t hurt. Next, send ruthlessly mean cards to people
you don’t like. We get these every time we appear in the paper. Third, pray that Cupid’s arrow does hit
you — in the jugular, that is. Forty-five seconds and it will all be over. Firebomb a Hallmark store. Send
an impaled teddy bear to an “ex.” He or she will love it. You can have your own Valentine’s Day
party, but remember to invite yourself, Dave, and Erich. Wear black all day, bring attitude, rent Fatal Attraction, and hold
a conversation.

We do not intend to offend or alienate anyone at Davidson (Those were lies. Conform to our predetermined standards or
be ridiculed.)

We, as seniors, have gone through the course selection process numerous times, and we can never find courses that we
want to take. Also (and more importantly), we can never find courses in our majors that have any relevance to
our futures or the world in general. Once again, our team of investigative reporters has revealed the flaws in the
system. The registrar’s office is currently ranked fourth on the world’s most corrupt systems list.

We have also discovered a list of courses that were rejected by the Board of Trustees for simple practicality. Our
research team spent hundreds of hours piecing together this list after it was shredded. Here is what we found:

His 274: The history of people who have graduated from Davidson with useless degrees.
Econ 487: How to get a job with an economics major and a sub-3.0 GPA.
Rel 666: Topic TBA
Anthro 311: The evolution of women: from sex slave, to housewife, to secretary.
Econ 365: The gender economics of rocks.
Soc 103: How to find out if the money-back guarantee works for mail-order women.

Give out vindictive candy hearts with messages like: Go to hell. Die. No one likes you. Loser. Ask your ex
out to dinner and a movie, make him/her pay, be rude, make a scene, and leave them without a ride
home.

If none of these work for you, always remember our motto: “Happiness is two people finding each other and being
thankful they didn’t find us.”

Motivational Thoughts Max Nelson Style©, Dave and Erich & Co. Enterprises Inc.

Meet first, then form opinion. (Most of you have this backwards.)
Dump them on Valentine’s Day or any other major holiday, so they will never forget it and have to dwell
on it annually for the rest of their lives.
Sell out. Hurt them. Transfer. BE RAW.
You deserve true love, even if it costs $3.99 a minute.
Don’t listen to your conscience. Succumb to peer pressure.
Don’t shower. Take the last one standing.
Visit other schools. Avoid the friend zone.
People can’t change. They will do it to you again if you let them; and you will, because you are
weak and stupid.

Inside the Numbers:
45. Percent of Davidson students with North Face backpacks.
5. Number, in billions, of people on Earth.
0. Number of valentines that we have received.
75. Percent of the Davidson campus that will be covered in brick by 2010.
90. Number of service hours mandated of David Suggs for speaking his mind. What is this, Russia?
5. Number out of 5 in MCF 104 who have shot for the Explorer at halftime of men’s basketball games.
2. Number of your authors who think that there is a conspiracy.

Coming in the future: Spring break review. We explain why all good-looking, free-willing people don’t attend Davidson. Also, we infiltrate
admissions to determine what is inherently wrong with the current system. Possibly, the complete and utter humiliation of a certain
student who was rumored to have foolishly written a rebuttal article.

Nothing in this article may be reproduced or referred to without the expressed written consent of Dave and Erich &
Co. Enterprises, Inc., but then again, what is “consent” anyway?

(Subliminal message: Ignore all the garbage that you just read. You are content with yourself and have a warm, compassionate
feeling inside. All you want is to talk benevolently about Dave and Erich and resist the temptation of making a
detrimental mistake by expressing your thoughts.)
