THE DAVIDSONIAN . TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

Davidson helps the victims of Hurricane Floyd

Drew DeVore
Staff Writer

When Hurricane Floyd hit the southeastern United States on September 15, it did monumental amounts of damage, mostly caused by the flooding it brought. Thousands of people were forced out of their homes, businesses were closed, and millions of dollars of damage was done. The Davidson College Community was quick to respond to the needs of those that had become the victims of Floyd.

Working with North Carolina Wesleyan College, located in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, the college quickly established a three-part relief effort to help some of the 55,000 residents there. The first part of the drive, according to Rosie Molinary, Community Service Coordinator, was the raising of money for the Red Cross efforts in Rocky Mount. “The students, faculty, staff, and friends of the college raised $5,380,” said Molinary, “which was matched by Carolina Power and Light.” That money was given to the American Red Cross, and earmarked for the victims in Rocky Mount.

The second phase of the drive was the gathering of clothing, personal and household products, and furniture. The pit of the union was set up as a collection point, and was filled through the generosity of the Davidson community. According to Ms. Molinary, two tractor-trailers of goods have already been sent to Rocky Mount, and a third is currently being loaded. “We received donations from tons of businesses in the area,” she said, “they were really great.” Residence Life donated used furniture, and area hotels and inns donated linens. These were used to outfit some of the 400 mobile trailers that were moved in to provide housing for residents in Rocky Mount.

In addition to the effort put forth by the college to help those in Rocky Mount, some students took their own initiative. Led by Taylor Herbert ‘01, 7 students traveled to flood-ravaged Franklin, Virginia over fall break. Franklin is a town of about 8,000 people, located on the Virginia-North Carolina border, about an hour west of Virginia Beach. The students lived with local residents and spent three days helping clean up the town. The first day was spent working in the basement of a flooded church. The second was spent, according to Herbert, “gutting City Hall.” “Because of the threat of contamination,” he said, “everything had to be thrown away. We spent the day with sledgehammers and shovels, breaking down desks and cleaning up.” The third day was spent working at a Salvation Army distribution center that serviced a three-county area, unloading trucks and handing out food.

The third part of the college relief effort will include trips to the Rocky Mount area to help with the clean-up and rebuilding effort. October 29-31 will be spent rebuilding a house that was home to five generations of women. The trips will continue on November 5-7, 12-14, and 19-21. These weekends will be spent working with Habitat for Humanity, and other projects in the area. About 75 students have expressed interest, according to Molinary, and others who are interested are encouraged to call x2298.

Davidson professor’s stories

By College Communications

Davidson College English professor Irvin Lasater considers himself a teacher rather than a writer. But when he began teaching Davidson College students to write fiction, he figured it was only fair to try his own hand at it. So ten years ago he began writing short stories, and turned out to be very good at it. Though he views his writing as an excruciatingly painful compulsion, his efforts have helped translate this into something that helps my students in the classroom. That’s why I write.

The December 4th LSAT is approaching! Get the score that gets you in! Classes Start in Davidson on 10/26! Don't miss out! Limited spaces left! Call today to enroll! KAPLAN 1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com AOL keyword: kaplan “LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. Kaplan gets you in.Recently, Nelson has been rewarded with two of the top prizes in American fiction. Story magazine, the leading journal of short story literature, named Nelson as the winner of its top award in its 1999 writing contest. His story, “Cutters,” was selected from 5,700 entries and will appear in the December edition of the magazine. In addition, Descant magazine named him winner of its Frank O’Connor Award for the best submission to that publication in the past year. His entry, “River Story,” was selected from among about 1,000 others.

Earlier in his academic career, Nelson had published books, reviews, and scholarly articles on literary history, but he felt compelled by his responsibility as a writing teacher to attempt fiction. He explained, “I have a pretty strong conviction that you don’t have much business teaching someone how to write unless you occasionally get outside the hothouse environment of the academic presses. It’s like making sure that the guy who’s designing your house has actually built one, rather than just drawing it.”

Though several of his previous stories were published, and some were rejected, “Cutters” and “River Story” were the first that he submitted to contests. They both reflect what Nelson calls his “dark cast of mind.” “Cutters” refers to its main character, a woman who cuts herself with glass. She is a newspaper photographer visiting a holiness church in the mountains with a writer companion. In compact, sober sentences, Nelson tells of their encounter with the parishioners and the snakes they handle in worship. He explained, “The point is that everyone is a cutter in one sense or another.”

“River Story” adopts the same somber tone. Its main character suffers sleeping sickness in an African jungle river port and stumbles dream-like through a business transaction that involves a mysterious woman, a sunken barge, and a rare fetish. Nelson said his grandmother dubbed him a great liar and storyteller, but he hasn’t found those qualities particularly helpful in writing. “It’s spooky to call up a blank screen and try to fill it.”

His writing technique reflects early training as a landscape architect. He builds plot and character with graphs, note cards, scrapbooks, arrows, and circles. Each story comes together in a binder filled with articles, notes, and ideas that gradually get reconstructed as prose on his computer. He often spends his lunch hour alone in his office trying to figure out a few more sentences. It takes him about six months to finish a 5,000-word story.

His teaching technique relies equally on mechanical metaphors. In his 19th and 20th century American literature classes, he describes writing as “an engineering problem.” He poses questions such as “If you could graph a person’s personality, what would it look like?” He draws prodigiously on the board in class and relies on unconventional techniques to help students see writing as a puzzle they can solve like any other. Nelson asked students in his “Short Fiction” class to build bridges with toothpicks and demonstrate “elegant solutions” to problems. He said, “An elegant solution uses up all the available material and requires no more. Short stories should be elegant in the same way, using up only the words required and requiring no more.”

Though he’s pleased for the recognition on the national literary scene, Nelson finds scant satisfaction in his prizes because they aren’t making his current two story projects any easier. “This is very nice, but it’s over and I have to get on with the next story,” he said. “The ultimate question is whether I can translate this into something that helps my students in the classroom. That’s why I write.”

Nelson received an undergraduate and master’s degree from N.C. State University and earned his Ph.D. at Princeton University. In addition to his current publications in Story and Descant, Nelson’s fiction has been published in North American Review, Kenyon Review, Shenandoah, African American Review, Gettysburg Review, and American Way.