iE

“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”

Established 1914

Diversity and food
A Student Health Advisor dinner!

NEWS 2

The debate continues...
More Denham.

OPINIONS 5

Che Davidson

Davidson artists perform
Living Arts Café provides the stage

A&L 8

Take that, Quakers.
Wildcats use their height advantage.

SPORTS 9

Alan Michael Parker, professor of English, introduces Alice Fulton before her poetry reading this past Monday.

By ANNE STANCIL
Staff Writer

Last week two distinguished poets visited Davidson. Alice Fulton, a professor at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, has won numerous awards, including a fellowship from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and a Guggenheim Fellowship. Frank Bidart teaches at Wellesley College in Massachusetts and is the author of four volumes of poetry. Both poets visited with students in several English classes to discuss the art of poetry.

In addition to class visits, Fulton and Bidart participated in a symposium entitled “Constructing the Body in Contemporary Poetics” for this year’s English Senior Colloquium. The topic for this fall’s Colloquium is Reading the Body, and the poets responded to questions regarding this theme. English Professor Alan Michael Parker organized the event, and posed questions to the poets in front of a full Perkins Auditorium. Bidart and Fulton were asked to define their work in relation to body and spirit, as well as speak to receptions of the reader.

The poets also commented on the actual construction of a poem, which according to Bidart, is itself a creation of a body. During the discussion, Fulton and Bidart talked about their own poetry and each other’s work. In addition to meetings with students, each poet gave a reading in the 900 Room. Fulton read to an audience last Monday, and Bidart followed on Tuesday evening.

The campus greeted the poets with open arms, and many people attended each event. The Davidson Community is fortunate to have had the opportunity to talk with two renowned poets, Alice Fulton and Frank Bidart.

BELL

DRIVE THRU

Spirits were high, energy was up, and the TACO BELL sign ushered in the Davidson Volleyball members with a special offer not often seen! For story, see Sports, page 11.

MOVIE AND RENTAL REVIEWS

“The Messenger,” starring Milla Jovovich and “Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil,” starring Kevin Spacey. See A&L.

The Messenger

Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil

Alice Fulton read her poetry in the 900 Room this past Monday.

Three professors discuss faith in the classroom

By JORDON STEELE
Guest Writer

On Monday, November 15th, students, faculty, and members of the Davidson community gathered to hear three Davidson College professors lecture on how faith plays a part in their teaching. Their respective areas of study proved to encompass a variety of disciplines; Dr. Foley from the Religion department, Dr. Yukich from Physics, and Dr. Levering from History.

The attendees, packed into Phi Hall, first heard Dr. Foley speak on the role of religion in his life and work. He began by clarifying “what [his] faith is and what [his] faith is not.” While Dr. Foley encourages sharing the Christian doctrine with non-Christians, he does not believe in converting those who are not Christian. In his words, forced conversion destroys “the otherness of the other.” In the classroom, Dr. Foley emphasizes that truth and beauty are not exclusive to one group, and that there are other non-Christian viewpoints that reveal truth in life. Dr. Foley also challenges his students to be “honest” with them-

See Role of Religion on page 4

MASTHEAD
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 5

EDITORIAL
ARTS & LIVING
SPORTS

Davidson, NC 28036

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1