“The South's Foremost College Weekly” 
ESTABLISHED 1914

Annual volunteer fair a success
NEWS 2

Crabbie’s back!
OPINIONS 5

A&L 7
Wow! Crosswords again!

Coming up for air
SPORTS 12

Reynolds Lecturer Arthur Danto speaks in Love Auditorium
By Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

On Tuesday, January 19th, Reynolds Lecturer Arthur Danto spoke in Love Auditorium. His speech, entitled “The Sistine Ceiling,” addressed the advantages and disadvantages of the recently-completed restoration of the Sistine Chapel. Art History Professor Shaw Smith introduced Danto as “one of the premier critics” whose “readings and writings have an edge to them.” Smith told the audience of Danto’s designation as a “hot type” by The Chronicle of Higher Education. After receiving his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1952, Danto became Professor Emeritus there. He has also served as an art critic for The Nation since 1984.

He began by presenting slides of Eve before and after the restoration to demonstrate the effects of the restoration. The change in Eve’s appearance, Danto explained, arises due to a coating of animal glue applied in the 17th century. When changes in temperature cause the glue to expand and contract, the glue damages the frescoes by removing pigments and leaving white spots. Danto then addressed the question of whether the restoration produced positive or negative effects. Candles used in the Chapel for hundreds of years created a dark layer of dirt over the paintings. This layer gave the ceiling the appearance which people associate with Michelangelo today. Danto said, “what one group saw as the grime of ages, another saw as a metaphysical grinding essential to Michelangelo’s work.” The exposure of new colors and removal of the dark layer spurred some critics to argue that the cleaning takes away from Michelangelo’s vision. For some, the darkness in the ceiling gave it a “heroic dimension,” which the restoration “washed away.” This vision of “figures coming out of the darkness to the light” or “embodied souls striving for a higher being.”

Arthur Danto with Shaw Smith

Davidson student charged with DUI
Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

On Friday, January 15, Self Selection Night, a Davidson junior was arrested for Driving Under the Influence. The accident occurred at 12:30 AM, and the student was driving a friend’s car, a Toyota 4Runner. According to Sam McKelvey, Director of Public Safety, the student was driving on Glasgow Road toward Main Street when he lost control of the car. When the car went on the left side of the road, the student over-corrected to the right. The car then hit a tree, and it flipped over on its top. McKelvey assessed that the car underwent “moderate damage”: “when it flipped over on the roof, there was creasing of the front right fender.” The driver apparently escaped the accident unscathed. McKelvey said that he “remarkably” had “no visible cuts, scratches, or bruises.”

Rob Hester ’01, one of the first people on the scene, heard the accident when he was walking back to campus from the FIJI house: “I heard a big, loud thud and glass breaking.” Hester saw the car about ten seconds after the accident. The driver crawled out of the car “quickly” and asked for help flipping over the car. Hester was impressed with

Patterson Court makes resolutions
AMANDA L. MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

For those not personally familiar with Patterson Court, or for those who only visit it on weekends, it seems a place for fun and frolic, complete with dance music and assorted beverages. In an effort to address these assumptions about the Court and its activities, a group of students, known collectivelyAs the “Self-Study Committee” conducted a study of the Court in order to create a set of standards and recommendations for the Court, this committee, led by Megan O’Brien, quickly addressed how the police arrived and the scene was cleared. He also said, “If it had been a few seconds earlier, he would have hit us.” The driver of the car was arrested on the scene. McKelvey reported that he will be charged a fine and that his license may be suspended. According to McKelvey, the owner of the car will not face any charges because “there was no reason to believe that he knew that the driver was impaired.” This accident was the first due to drunk driving on the Davidson campus this year, and McKelvey was unaware of any DUI accidents on campus in the recent past. He said that the Campus Police were already taking measures against drunk driving: “We try to be observant and so forth.” As for precautions due to the accident, McKelvey said, “There’s not a whole lot that we will do in terms of enforcement connected to this.” McKelvey believed that this accident was an “unusual incident,” especially with the services provided by the Vamanos Van and other programs. McKelvey explained, “Most of our students I don’t think operate while impaired.” He also saw no evidence of a specific connection between the accident and Self Selection activities.

Danto gave the ceiling what he called a Baroque vision, which was “impossible” for Michelangelo. To these objections, Danto added the question, “What if Michelangelo added that darkness after the individual frescos became readily fixed?” Among his objections to the restoration, Danto’s main problem was the restorers’ attitude toward their work. He said that the restorers John A. Dunwoody II “treated the ceiling as only an object” and “dealt with only the paint” because they cited “absolute passivity” as the best approach. Danto, on the other hand, believed that “interpretation should approve conditions upon the cleaning process.” Another issue for Danto was the order in which Michelangelo painted the ceiling. The restorers believed that Michelangelo painted in reverse order beginning with the Deluge; Danto, however, felt that Michelangelo started with the Drunkenness of Noah. “If you get the sequence wrong, you could get everything wrong,” Danto claimed. He blamed the restorers’ “misconception” on “the faith that objectivity is brush stroke by brush stroke.” Danto concluded by saying that he is now “grateful” for some products of the restoration. One advantage is that the framework could be easily seen once it was cleaned. He realized that the restorers had to use their only opportunity to have the cleaning fully funded by a private company. According to Danto, the restoration has created new questions about whether the nine panels have equal weight or if the creation of Eve is the central panel. Still, Danto reiterated that “there’s no reading without interpretation” because “one cannot be passive.” In addition to his speech, Danto also addressed “Can the eye be legitimately considered historical?” on Wednesday, January 20. During his visit, Danto met with art history students and professors as well.

The Davidson Fire Department responds to a suspected fire in the Dana Science building. Fortunately, it turned out to be a false alarm.

A member of Rusk and president of PCC, and Aaron Rice, a member of SigEp, began its study in September of this year and finished in December, submitting a report to President Vagt to review.