8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1999

DCSO delivers glimmering spring concert

Mozart, Beethoven thrill audience

Student soloist shines in concerto;

By AL G. STERLING

Correspondent

DAVIDSON, N.C. — The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra gave its annual spring concert last Thursday evening at 8:00 p.m. in
Love Auditorium. The full orchestral ensemble was greeted by a healthy assortment of faculty, staff, students, and community members, who
had come to pay witness to the final concert in this, the DCSO’s fifth year of existence.

The concert program consisted of Mozart’s Overture to “The Magic Flute” and Lalo’s Cello Concerto on the first half, and
Beethoven’s First Symphony following intermission.

Dr. Richard Prior, conductor of the DCSO, brought about an energetic rendition of Mozart’s Overture. Sophomore cellist Lauren Baird fearlessly
attacked the Lalo, barely missing a note throughout the performance. She and the remainder of the corpulent orchestra played Beethoven’s
symphony with spirit and precision, in an impressive display of technique considering the difficulty of the repertoire.

The crowd gave a standing ovation upon completion of the concert, the DCSO’s third of the semester.

*“Encomiast” takes mp3.com

Press RELEASE

Encomiast, the album from what is probably Davidson’s only dark ambient project, is currently available online at www.mp3.com/encomiast. For those
of you unfamiliar with this genre of music, it discards conventional ideas of melody and harmony, and frequently tempo, in
favor of a flowing and spatial quality, to numbing effect. It has been described as music for “the music lover
who can sit and enjoy the evolving sound of someone else’s nightmare,” to quote the website for Cold Meat Industry,
one of the leading record labels of post-industrial electronic music. Encomiast contains 45 minutes of dark soundscapes in both audio
and mp3 format from Ross Hagen and features “concupere,” a 30-minute ambient jam session that features the sonic manipulations of
Nick Paul. Plans are being made to have CDs available here in the near future, but the album is only
available online at www.mp3.com/encomiast or through special arrangements at the present. For more information contact Ross at extension 6365.

LOOKING FOR THE WRITE PATH?

Have we got a job for you!

Consider the Davidson College Internship in Media Relations.

Gain experience in journalistic writing, graphic art, and design for the World Wide Web.

Fast-paced, creative working environment; daily interaction with media professionals; paid vacation; full-time college benefits; one- to two-year appointments.

Interested applicants should direct questions to Bill Giduz in the Office of College Communications at 892-2244.

DAVIDSON

SPECIAL SALE. April 21-27

Your Local “Almost on Campus” Grocery Store!

MILWAUKEE’S BEST BEERS
(Regular/Light/Ice) — 24 pk./12 oz.
(Regular & Light) — 24 pk/12 oz.
(Regular & Light) — 12 pk/12 oz.

BUSCH
Corona
Anchor Steam

TOFU PUPS — 8 pk/12 oz.
GRANOLA Blueberries ‘N Cream

AFTER THE FALL
24 Karrot Orange Juice — 32 oz.
CLIFF BARS — all varieties
GARDEN OF EATIN’
Tortilla Chips — Assorted Varieties — 7.5 oz.

AMY’S PIZZA — all Varieties (8 oz)
TOFUTTI CUTIES choc.-vanilla-16/12 oz. 1.99

Sundays
10% Student Discount
(except beer, wine & vitamins on sale)

261 Griffith Street (SADLER SQUARE) 892-6191

8.99
10.99
10.99
6.99

6 pk/12 oz.

2.99
1.79 lb.

1.99
1.39

1.99
3.79
