THE DAVIDSONIAN

Flecktones conquer Love Auditorium

By JOHN LAMBETH
Guest Writer

On Friday night, a mix of eager Davidson students and devoted fans from Charlotte and beyond gathered in Love Auditorium
to spend an evening with Bela Fleck and the Flecktones. Five minutes after the scheduled showtime, the capacity crowd finally
coaxed Bela onto the stage, and the band kicked things off with a moving version of “Big Country,” a treat
for bluegrass fans. The short but sweet first set also included “Communication” and “Oddity,” two other tunes off the Flecktones’
latest Warner Bros. release, Left of Cool.

One of the highlights of the first set was a new instrumental written by the newest member of the band,
saxophonist Jeff Coffin. The song presented a vaguely familiar melody, reminiscent of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s “My Favorite Things.” Definitely the
crowning moment of the set was the solo showcase of talent and imagination put on by bassist Victor Lemonte Wooten,
who demonstrated just why he has been voted “Bassist of the Year” by Bass Player magazine for three consecutive years.

After a brief set break, the crowd resettled and was anxious for more. Future Man, Victor’s brother and the Flecktone’s
percussionist who purportedly traveled to Love Auditorium from the year 2050, opened the second set with a solo performance, incorporating
a number of instruments and prepared tape samples. He had plenty of tricks in his bag, but spent most of
the night on his hand-crafted synth-axe drumitar, prompting several first-time audience members to ask, “Hey, where are those drums coming
from?”

The band rejoined Future Man on stage and got things cooking again with a scorching performance of piano legend Chick
Corea’s “Spain.” This Latin influence was also heard (and verbally acknowledged by Bela) during a new tune entitled “Spanish Point.”
Perhaps the highlight of the show was “Let Me Be the One,” a song that includes incredibly cheesy vocals by
Future Man. The song also allows lots of room for Bela’s electric Deering banjo and Jeff’s baritone wah-wah sax to
create some magical interplay.

“Shanti,” with Vic on cello, Bela on sitar banjo, Jeff on flute, and Future Man on “the box.” The band
returned to encore the crowd favorite and Grammy-winning “The Sinister Minister.” Bela also gave the crowd what they had been
waiting for during his solo portion, as he concluded by breaking into the familiar “Ballad of Jed Clampett,” a.k.a. “That
song from the Beverly Hillbillies.”

Two new untitled tunes were also played in the second set: a blues number which debuted this past fall at
Green Acres (woohoo!) and a brand new song which experimented with harmonics by Vic and Bela and several time signature
changes. The set ended with a couple of acoustic numbers, including a beautiful take on Bela playing the familiar melody
on his new toy, a theremin. Victor really took this bass solo to new heights and wowed the crowd by
spinning his bass behind his back in mid-solo.

Look for Bela’s new project, a collaboration with old bluegrass buddies (including Sam Bush, Tony Rice, Jerry Douglas, Stuart Duncan,
and Mark Schatz), to be released this spring. The Flecktones will continue their East Coast tour through the end of
February, when Bela will take a break to play a few shows on the West Coast with Mike Marshall and
Edgar Meyer.

Snorkel and dive with Davidson Outdoors

Continued from previous page

snow white beach to the next. They will sail over some of Florida’s most scenic coral reefs with many opportunities
to snorkel and dive among the reefs and the fish which they shelter. This trip is already full, but there
is a waiting list.

The second trip is, unfortunately, not open to the average Davidson student. This trip is a sea kayaking venture to
Sapelo Island in southern Georgia. This trip is the final trip for those takingthe Wilderness Leadership training in session one.
There are still spots available for session two, so similar opportunities are awaiting. Talk has been made of an Everglades
canoe trip. This trip would be similar to the very popular one sponsored over Christmas break. Two canoes of six
people each would have the opportunity to spend five days island hopping in the waters of Florida. The trip is,
rather, in the mangrove estuaries surrounding Everglades City. If living like Gilligan sounds appealing to you, call D.O. now to
express your interest in the trip. If all this seems too overwhelming to you and you just don’t feel like
you have the time, don’t worry about it. There is always Easter. D.O. is planning some fun-filled excursions for Easter
break already. There are already three Easter break options.

The first is a sea kayaking trip to Cape Lookout. Cape Lookout is located on the end of Cape Hatteras,
North Carolina. It will provide an excellent opportunity to enjoy North Carolina’s finest beaches. The trip leaders for that are
John Bottini and Kristie Hertz.

If you prefer a more rugged retreat, D.O. has what you’re looking for. There is an alternate option for all
you mountain men and women. This option is a mountain bike excursion. This trip will be led by Kurt Yusi
and Kelly Keifer. It will take riders through some of North Carolina’s best trails found in the Pisgah and Tsali
National Forests. There is a chance it will reach as far north as West Virginia and into the New River
Gorge.

If sitting on a bicycle seat for a couple of days straight doesn’t sound like much fun, there is the
final option of paddling down section three of the Chatooga River. This trip will run for two days allowing all
the time in the world to visit your family and then get sick of them. Katie Lannon and Stowe Beam
are the trip leaders for this excursion.

If none of these trips can fit into your hectic schedule, there is still hope. Keep a lookout for the
new D.O. calendars. These calendars will provide you with all the information you need regarding the upcoming weekend trips. Be
on the lookout for weekends of skiing, backpacking, climbing, fly fishing, and mountain biking.

Finally, for those of you who don’t want to venture too far from campus, every Thursday in Baker Pool there
is kayak rolling, while every Monday through Thursday the climbing wall is open.

Crossword solutions:

WALK THE SKY
S E S
S E S
F O R V I O N
R T
A M T
I N
M I Z I O N
M O I N
S I P
M I N
Y A R I
M I A
C L R
R E O
M I Z
G
M A
A I R
A I R T
C I V R
R I T
G I E
L I V I T
E
S I E R

Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Holdings, Inc. 1997. Ben & Jerry’s is a trademark of Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Holdings, Inc.
