THE DAVIDSONIAN

A peek into Martin: One chemist’s research at Davidson College

By SARAH SCHMIDT
Guest Writer

Every day, lab-coated, goggled research scientists perform significant chemical research right here at Davidson College. This article is a simple exploration into the work of one faculty member, Dr. Erland Stevens.

Stevens is a recent addition to the chemistry department faculty. He completed his undergraduate education at Duke University and went to the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor for graduate studies. Stevens joined the Davidson community in Fall 1998.

This series of articles, which will appear over the next four weeks, focuses on the research activities of faculty members in the Psychology, Physics, Biology, and Chemistry departments. One faculty member from each of these departments will be interviewed.

His specialty is organic chemistry, and his research focuses specifically on heterocyclic compounds. Heterocyclic compounds are literally all around (and in) us. They are in sugars, hemoglobin, and everywhere in our DNA. Stevens’s research focuses on developing new methods of creating heterocyclic compounds in the hope of finding a compound that is biologically active. Being biologically active would make the compound a candidate for drug development.

Stevens’s research is part of a current trend in drug development called combinatory chemistry. This is an approach that emphasizes the exploration into new methods for creating chemical compounds; the aim is to create a vast number of new molecules, one or some of which may become useful in the discovery of new drugs.

Until the combinatory chemistry approach, drug research was a slow and tedious process. The concept was to start with criteria: “this is how we want our drug to interact with these other compounds, and thus, this is what it should look like.” Then the chemists would labor for months (or years) attempting to create a molecule that looked right, and testing it for biological activity. As Stevens explained, if this old method was the “sniper-gun approach” then combinatory chemistry is the “shot-gun approach” to drug development. By developing efficient methods for creating many new compounds, more and more new molecules are being generated. Every new compound is a legitimate addition to the testing pool.

Once a new molecule is created in a Davidson lab, the method is shared with other scientists in the country, and testing is done to determine its biological activity. Davidson can contribute to the national drug development effort by including the compounds discovered here in the testing pool.

Because he is still relatively new to Davidson, and in the process of settling in, Stevens conducts most of his research on his own. He did have two students helping last year and one over the summer. Since chemistry majors are strongly encouraged to do at least one semester of research, he expects to continue to have students involved this year and in the future.

Pre-Law Society to sponsor round-table discussion tonight

By DREW DEVORR
Staff Writer

Every year, 20-30 members of the graduating class at Davidson decide to attend law school immediately after college. The Pre-Law Society exists to help these and others to bothDecide if law is right for them and to prepare them for law school. According to Tony Butchello, with the Office of Career Services, the Pre-Law Society works together with Career Services to help students answer the question, “Is law really what I want to do with my life?” They do this by sponsoring special events and by bringing programs that relate to the law field. According to Anita Keteku ’00, a member of the society's executive committee, “This semester has been a real exciting one for the Pre-Law Society.” This is because of some of the events that they have managed to bring to Davidson, including a meeting of the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, the creation of a mock trial team, a number of speakers, and several panel discussions. This past Wednesday, a panel was held featuring representatives from Berkeley, Duke, and the University of Southern California. Tonight, the society will sponsor a roundtable discussion featuring college admission representatives from the University of Florida, Samford University, and UPenn. They will answer frequently asked questions about law school admissions. Furthermore, on Tuesday, Nov. 2, there will be the annual Law School Fair, featuring representatives of 48 of the nation’s best law schools. The Pre-Law Society, which has between two and three hundred members, is run by an executive committee of five students, and is advised by Dr. Thornberry of the political science department and Dr. Wertheimer of the history department. It is not a formal society, but instead a loosely organized association which is kept informed via e-mail and voicemail.

INNER HAIR CARE
997 Beli, Division 225, Darien, CT 06820-1005

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS SEEKING PAID TUTORS
THE AVID PROGRAM

AVID is a program designed to prepare middle-achieving students in Grades 6-12 for four-year college and university entry and success. If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are a candidate for this position.

You must be:
- Enrolled in a college or university with good academic standing
- Able to work in a supportive manner with middle level and high school students and teachers
- Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
- Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
- Willing to receive three hours of training in the AVID teaching methodologies
- An excellent role model for motivated, organized, and successful students

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year
Salary: $7.50 per hour

For additional information, please complete and return to the following:
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street, Suite 506
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
(704) 343-6975

POTENTIAL AVID TUTORS (Personal Information)
Name:
Mailing Address:
Telephone:
College/University:

20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Corner of I-77 & Exit 28
Cornelius