Press RELEASE
College Communications

A collaborative work created by 15 students in a Davidson College freshman English class and financed by the college president
will be celebrated beside Highway 21 north of Charlotte Thursday, Oct. 21, at 3 p.m.

It’s a newly-installed billboard depicting a praying figure and the words “When was the last time you stood up for
what you believe?”

Residents and commuters in North Mecklenburg can ponder the image and message for the next month, thanks to College President
Robert Vagt’s initiative. When Vagt learned that the class, entitled “What Does Art Do?” would be painting a mural for
the Ada Jenkins Community Center in Davidson, he offered to sponsor a public art billboard.

The president, members of the class, and their teacher, Assistant Professor Alan Parker, will be on hand for the unveiling
on Thursday between exits 23 and 25 on U.S. Highway 21. Students will work on the Ada Jenkins mural between
now and the end of the fall semester.

Davidson student plants organic garden

By Drew Devore
Staff Writer

Last year, Davidson hosted a Sustainable Campus Development Clinic—a meeting of people from colleges around the south to discuss ways
that they could work at “greening” their campuses. One of the ideas that was discussed at the meeting, an organic
garden, caught the attention of Christa Wagner ‘02. She applied for the Robert T. Stone Grant for environmental service projects,
and received $500 to start an organic garden at Davidson.

Over the summer, Wagner worked to get the plot of land at The Pines ready for planting. She said that
she chose to plant the garden at the retirement complex because there was no adequate space on campus, and the
residents are eager to help keep the project going over the summer. She said that she also hopes the garden
will become an avenue for students to meet and get to know residents of The Pines.

A little over a month ago, Wagner and others planted what she called an “experimental” fall garden. She called it
experimental because no one knows exactly what a fall garden will do in this climate, and whether or not it
will be able to grow. The garden currently is growing spinach, kale, radishes, lettuce, cucumbers, and turnips.

The idea behind an organic garden is that no chemicals, pesticides, or fertilizers are used in the process. Wagner said
that this garden will serve as a small example of what can be done totally naturally. She also hopes that
it will raise people’s consciousness of what is in the food they are eating.

According to Wagner, the main planting and growing season will be in the spring, when a much larger garden will
be planted. Most of the vegetables will be planted in mid to late February. Some will be ready to harvest
before the end of school, but most will be cared for over the summer by residents of The Pines, and
will be harvested in the fall.

Wagner’s biggest hope for the garden is that it will be a community area for all of Davidson. She hopes
that people will use it as a place to meet, relax, and simply enjoy. She currently has many people who
are interested in working on it in the spring, but is always looking for more help.

“One of the goals of the class has been the process of finding an image and message we could all
agree to,” said class member Meredith Shuba ‘03. “We decided on this to help show that our generation isn’t as
indifferent as people think.”

Student Alejandro Correa ‘03 noted that the message is purposely ambiguous. “People will react according to their beliefs,” he said.
“It could be construed as anti-religious or pro-religious depending on your point of view.”

A third student, Ryan Ferrier ‘03, noted that the ambiguous nature of the message made it easier for class members
to agree. “We also think it’s a more powerful message because it’s open to individual interpretation,” he said.

The class involves writing assignments around the subject of public art’s place in the modern world.

Students have investigated various issues related to art: community concerns, government censorship, and the work’s placement in public venues. For
their billboard project, students visited the site on Highway 21, toured the Adams Outdoor Advertising billboard factory, and spoke with
the artist, James Woods, who hand-painted their work.

Fifteen freshmen pose before their billboard, located between Exits 23 and 25 on Highway 21.

Bill Giduz

You buy a $20 card. You get $20 worth of wireless calls.

(It’s not like you need to take Critical Perspectives in Economic Theory to figure that one out.)

WITH NEW ACTIVATION

$10 FREE AIRTIME

Our Prepaid Wireless service is a great way to get wireless when you need it at a price you can
afford. Simply purchase our Prepaid Wireless Cards. You can use your own phone, or buy our prepaid package and get
a phone. When you need more time, just purchase additional minutes. It’s truly wireless when you want it.

www.alltel.com

Charlotte: Highland Park Commerce Court, 734 Tyvola Road 7128 E. Independence Blvd. One Independence Center, 101 N. Tryon Street, Suite
100 The Arboretum, 8206-1400 Providence Road Pineville: 9105 Pineville-Matthews Road Concord: 349 Copperfield Blvd., Suite O Mooresville: 3936 Highway 150
West

ALLTEL

The power to simplify

$10 free offer good with new account activation. Offer good until December 31, 1999. Customer may provide equipment or purchase
equipment from ALLTEL. Non-usage fee of up to $4.95/week may apply. Roaming and long-distance fees may apply. Taxes will apply
on a per-call basis and will be deducted from $10 free airtime credit. See store for details.
