Davidson Baseball brings one home
By Kurt Staff Writer

Davidson baseball took a mid-season break from gameplay last week, attempting to regroup and focus on a late-season run for
the coveted Southern Conference tournament bid. The five-day hiatus proved therapeutic as Davidson ended their eight-game winless streak with an
11-8 come-from-behind victory over Western Carolina University (17-9, 6-1).

The Catamounts entered the weekend undefeated and in sole possession of first place in the conference. The three-game series marked
the Wildcats’ third consecutive weekend against the conference’s current standings leader. The Wildcats (4-23-1, 3-12) pounded out 12 hits and
took advantage of seven bases on balls for the three-run victory. In the contest, Davidson twice equaled their highest run
output of the season in a single inning (five). In the Wildcats’ five-run third inning, Ben Brown, Stuart Sloan, and
Tim Frend all hit home runs. Davidson has not achieved this feat since the great career of Rick Bender. On
April 12, 1992, Bender, former assistant coach Brett Boretti, and Paul Brannan all hit home runs, leading the Wildcats to
a 7-6 victory in 10 innings.

Brown’s blast to deep left center ended his 464 at-bat homerless drought, which lasted nearly two years. Sloan’s power surge
was not finished. The score was tied eight all in the seventh inning. With two outs and two strikes against
him, the determined Sloan successfully connected on a bases-loaded double scoring Brown and pinch runner Steven Aldrich. His hit proved
to be the game-winner as pitcher Wes Self shut down the Catamount hitters in the seventh inning.

“Stu showed a lot of poise on the game-winning hit,” said Co-captain Kurt Davis. Self (3-4) pitched seven innings for
his fourth complete game of the season. He currently leads the Wildcat staff in ERA (6.17), wins (three), complete games
(four), innings pitched (46.2), and strikeouts (28).

“We showed a lot of fight,” said Davis. “We have had some strong comebacks, but we didn’t come through and
finish the job. This shows we might get over the hill we have been climbing all season and continue playing
successfully.”

Western Carolina won the other two games of the series, 9-3 and 15-7, however, the losses have not discouraged the
Wildcats. Davis recognizes what must be accomplished in the upcoming weeks to earn a trip to the tournament in Charleston.
“As we approach next weekend with College of Charleston, we need to do a better job of manufacturing runs, making
defensive stops, and controlling the opponents’ running game.”

Davidson will play at UNC-Chapel Hill on Wednesday. The Tar Heels are currently ranked second in the nation.

Mike Anderson @ Coaches Dick Cooke and Chris Pollard look on from the dugout.
Mike Anderson @ Wildcat hurler Jamie McDonald delivers a pitch.

’Cats serve up two conference victories
By Alison Kalett Sports Editor

Nothing restores a team’s confidence after four consecutive losses like a couple of key conference victories. This was the case
for the women’s tennis team as the Virginia Tech Wildcats rebounded from their tough 8-1 loss to Virginia Tech last
Tuesday to defeat conference opponents.| Conference rivals Davidson 0 | Appalachian State and Georgia Southern. Against Appalachian St., the ‘Cats
came within one doubles match of a shutout as all six singles players and two of the three doubles teams
claimed victories. “It was our first sweep of singles all season,” said senior #1 seed Dana Casner, “The win helped
bring us into the weekend. We played a really solid match and everyone had a good day. Overall, it was
a solid conference win.” The strength of the Appalachian St. lineup was in the top three positions, as Davidson’s seniors,
#1 Casner, #2 Amber Bradford, and #3 Claire Cheatwood were all pushed to three sets. Casner dropped her first set
6-3 but came back to claim the next two 6-4 and 6-1. Bradford and Cheatwood lost their first sets by
identical 6-1 margins, but they both stormed back to win their matches in three sets. In the bottom half of
the singles lineup, the ‘Cats had no trouble with the Appalachian St. players, as freshmen Forbes Thompson and Elizabeth Moreno
won their fourth and fifth seeded matches by identical 6-0, 6-1 scores. Also, senior Kirstyn Leuner won her games en
route to a victory at the #6 position. By virtue of their six singles victories, the ‘Cats had already secured
the overall victory heading into the doubles. Davidson came within one match of a sweep as they dropped only two
doubles matches. The teams of Cheatwood/Moreno and Thompson/Leuner easily won their matches, but the new pairing of Casner and Marks
fell 8-3.

The ‘Cats continued their winning ways at home against Georgia Southern. Once again, Davidson shined in singles play as five
of six ‘Cats won their matches in straight sets. Bradford, Cheatwood, Thompson, and Moreno all enjoyed easy wins, while Leuner
trounced her opponent 6-0, 6-0. Leuner also did not drop a game in doubles play as she teamed up with
Thompson to win 8-0 in Davidson’s lone doubles victory. Following their two straight wins, the ‘Cats encountered a very talented
team from Furman which defeated Davidson in all nine matches. Several ‘Cats enjoyed close contests as Anna Judy, College Communication:
#1 Single seed Dana Casner has rolled to a string of recent victories. The ‘Cats currently hold a solid 3-3
conference record and a 5-7 mark overall. On Wednesday at 2 pm, Davidson hosts Western Carolina in another key conference
match-up. “We are playing well,” Casner said. “We have three weeks left [until conference championships] to give it all we’ve
got.”

“My view is, to eliminate the possibility of cheating why not let kids go to college, and just be athletes
while they’re there. No classes. Let them simply play. How many great athletes simply aren’t smart? But why shouldn’t they
have the chance to compete?” — Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura

OF THE WEEK.

WHAT'S INSIDE?

Men’s tennis jumps out to 5-0 Record
By Brad Stevinson

Men’s and Women’s Tennis vs. Chattanooga
April 2nd @ 2 pm

Track Teams Compete at Raleigh Relays
By Smyth Bitter & Keith Gordon
