THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wanted: Outspoken, outstanding advisors

By Jenny Hapcoop
Student Health Advisor

Maybe you saw the Butts for Bagels poster in Chambers, maybe you reached into our purple punch bowl of contraception,
or maybe you listened to us discuss the dangers of drunken hookups. If you found yourself interested in, or excited
by, any of these events, we may have a job for you!

Springtime again, and with the new season, comes a new challenge for Georgia Ringle, Davidson’s revered and loved health educator.
During the months of March and April, Georgia will be hunting for her 1999-2000 health advisors. Four students will be
selected to work closely with Georgia and the Student Health Center during both semesters of the next school year.

So, what does a health advisor do? As spokespersons for Georgia, health advisors teach freshmen hall programs and some segments
of PE 101. The hall programs range from awareness of STDs and the need for contraception to a discussion of
the varying proofs that different alcohols carry. Additionally, health advisors design posters and bulletin boards seen in Chambers and residence
halls. This year, we co-organized the AIDS Awareness Day luminaries that lit up the night sky around Chambers, the Union,
and the Library. Organizing Butts for Bagels and the Health Fair are great activities that require enthusiasm and a desire
to get this campus thinking and motivated.

Here’s a fair warning to those who are interested in applying: This job is not for the faint-hearted! You must
be willing to discuss SEX and DRINKING and other HEALTH ISSUES AT DAVIDSON COLLEGE. Yes, it’s true. Davidson College does
have its own set of problems; we have students with STDs, excessive stress, unplanned pregnancies, alcoholism, eating disorders, and drunk
driving. While we do focus on health concerns, health advisors are privileged to more than reporting facts. Think about it:
you get your own trash bag of condoms! Who wouldn’t want to be a health advisor?

The bottom line is this: a health advisor is one who does more than talk about the problems and wish
things were better. To be a health advisor, you must acknowledge that Davidson College is NOT in a bubble; we
have issues that can be solved with the help of ambitious and compassionate students. If you’re interested in joining Georgia
and the health educators, please pick up an application at the Student Health Center or call Georgia Ringle for further
details. If you have questions about the health advisors’ perspectives on the job, feel free to obtain their numbers from
Georgia. Thanks and don’t let this opportunity to make an impact pass you by.

Davidson Dance Troupe celebrates tenth anniversary with ‘The Beauty of the Woman”

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

This past Saturday, March 26, 1999, the Davidson Dance Troupe (and a few friends) put on a show entitled “The
Beauty of Woman.” Set in Hodson Hall, “The Beauty of Woman” not only showcased the talents of the ten-member dance
troupe but also the talents of various female faculty members and other students. The Davidson Dance Troupe has been existent
for the past ten years—this ten-year anniversary finds a program devoted not only to performance but also to teaching the
art that is dance.

Saturday’s performance employed the talents of Carey Arvin, Kate Bedinger, Laura Crim, Candice Hall, Amanda Lanier, Julia Philpott, Emily Snyder,
Kristen Taylor, Laura Taylor, and Brooke Weihe. The Dance Troupe is composed of these ten students. Kate Scibal was the
one additional dancer in the performance. Poems were read by Elizabeth Mills, Magdalena Maiz-Pena, Ann Culp, Elizabeth Malphurs, and Ashley
A. King.

The performance opened with a dance choreographed by Dance Troupe member Julia Philpott. The dance, entitled “Mercurial,” was performed to
the music of Tori Amos. The dancers were Kate Bedinger, Laura Crim, Julia Philpott, and Emily Snyder. “The Beauty of
Woman” opened with a strong and emotionally evocative performance. The first dance was followed by Kristen Taylor’s reading of a
poem entitled “Hips.” Elizabeth Mills followed with a reading of a poem entitled “Lady in Red.” The interspersion of dance
and poetrywas an interesting and compelling part of Saturday night’s concert. After the first poetry reading of the night, Kristen
Taylor and Laura Taylor danced to the music of Madonna. Their dance was followed by another poetry reading. Ann Culp
and Elizabeth Malphurs alternated reading lines from a poem entitled “Stepping Westward.” Kristen Taylor followed with a dance done to
Shawn Mullins’ song “Shimmer.” Intermission followed Kristen’s performance. Once the audience was reseated, the most interesting combination of poetry and
dancing came in the performance entitled “BodySpeakArt.” In this performance, the dancing of Kristen Taylor and Laura Taylor was combined
with dancing and a monologue performed by Amanda Lanier. Set to the music of Deep Forest, the powerful delivery of
the monologue and the interpretive dancing by Laura and Kristen made for a compelling performance. Poetry again took hold of
the show after BodySpeakArt. Magdalena Maiz-Pena recited “La Unica Mujer,” reading line by line in Spanish and English. Maiz-Pena read
with enthusiasm and feeling, really bringing the verse to life through the power of her voice and expression. She was
followed by another dance performance, this one entitled “Great Gig in the Sky,” in which Laura Taylor danced to music
by Pink Floyd. Her performance was a true example of interpretive, artistic dance that brought music into the realm of
movement. Her movements seemed filled not only with artistry but also with a sense of joyful spirit. Ashley A. King
then read a poem of her own. Her poem was a strong piece, set in accessible language that brought the
poem’s situation into reality. Set in free verse, her poem could have truly been a telephone conversation. Ashley’s poetry reading
was followed by Amanda Lanier and Kate Scibal’s dance entitled “What You Don’t Know”—a humorous song combined with dance. Their
dance moved into the final poetry reading of the night, this one by Elizabeth Mills. She read the poem entitled
“Plant,” which was about a breakup but also about the workings of a woman’s mind. The final dance piece of
the night was done by the entire dance troupe. It was entitled “Woman with a Blue Veil.” Choreographed by Julia
Philpott, and using the music of Nine Inch Nails, Black Sabbath, and Bjork, this dance was a fitting end to
the night’s performance. The show “The Beauty of the Woman” combined different views on women expressed in dance and in
poetry. This combination became a thematic whole that certainly shows the creative side and talent of the women here at
Davidson College.

Musical Preludes
Trey Davis

Musical Preludes

Across
1. Wee
5. Eliot’s Adam
9. Shish follower
14. Mimicked
15. Departure
16. Wed in secret
17. Oolong and Earl Grey
18. Natural tunnel
19. Rocking bird
20. Musical prelude to the sun
22. Inspirations
23. Flight from the law
24. Dispose
25. Depot (abbr.)
28. Mea culpa
30. Kind of cat or chance
31. Pig
34. Anticipating
36. Campus building
38. Composer Porter
39. Musical prelude to a star
42. Long times
43. Mirth
44. Paradises
45. Cop, for short
46. Computer key
47. Pitcher Quisenberry
49. One of seven
50. Poetic before
51. Ammo assoc.
53. M.A.S.H. character
56. Musical prelude to the moon
62. Dwindle
63. M.I.A.
64. Neck part
65. Soccer great et al.
66. Relinquish
67. Many Mormons
68. Brief showing
69. Keats creations
70. Period before Easter

Down
1. School subject
2. Foil
3. Backside
4. Ford mistake
5. Turn into
6. Here, it’s self-scheduled
7. Plunge
8. French summers
10. Host of CBS variety show, 1975-1980
11. Vocally
12. Barker and Dole
13. Andy’s nephew
21. Uncle and Gentle
24. Sports sedan
25. St. Louis football team
26. Stitched
27. California lake
29. Jerry Maguire, for one
30. Grown-up
31. Kind of green tomatoes
32. Desires
33. Way to be home
35. Intelligence group
37. Between ems and ohs
38. In debt to
40. Stare at
41. Painter Matisse
46. Citizen’s or cardiac
48. Leg parts
50. Consumed
52. Negate
53. Door knocks
54. Assist
55. Surrealist Salvador
56. Texas city
57. Amazed
58. Vein
59. Fence opening
60. Store sign
61. Aerie
