THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS - Wildcat Volleyball wins NCAA berth
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

Defeat of Chattanooga for conference title sends them on their way
By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

CULLOWHEE, NC—You can put it in the books. Davidson put the finishing touch on its picture-perfect season on Sunday, capping a clean sweep of the Southern Conference with a victory over arch nemesis Chattanooga. With the 15-9, 14-16, 15-2, 15-10 victory, the 1999 squad became the first ever Lady Wildcat team to advance to an NCAA Division-I Tournament. Gina Lawrence, Mara Mordini, and Erica Schwartz garnered All-Tournament Team honors. Mordini was the Tournament’s MVP.

Davidson finished the season with a program-best 23-0 record in the Southern Conference, including three straight victories over UNC-G, Furman, and Chattanooga in this weekend’s tournament.

"It's incredible.” Mara Mordini beamed. “We've come such a long way, and I don’t know how to explain it. We all feel so awesome. Everybody has put in so much work.”

Mordini paced the Wildcats with a career-high 31 kills, along with 23 digs, on the day. The Southern Conference Player of the Year and Tournament MVP was utterly unstoppable, accruing a team-best 386 kills and 425 digs across the regular season.

“(Mara)’s absolutely deserving,” avowed Head Coach Lisa Marston. “It’s a great honor for her, because there were so many great players in the conference this year.”

“Gina (Lawrence) and I both made first-team all-conference,” smiled Mordini. “It was a big honor for us. But you don’t do it alone.”

“I always thought we would get to a point where we were at the top of the conference,” admitted Marston. “But I didn’t know we would ever do this well. It's such a wonderful thing.”

Finals
Chattanooga earned a spot in the showdown against the Wildcats with a victory over ETSU on Friday night. The pre-season #2 pick in the Southern Conference, the Lady Mocs spent all season with the ‘Cats in their sights.

Davidson won the first game 15-9, but Chattanooga jumped out to an early lead in the match’s second frame. After clawing their way back into a 14-14 contest, the Wildcats were unable to turn the corner and the Lady Mocs captured game two 16-14.

“We've had to come from behind in a lot of matches this year, and I feel really confident even when we’re behind,” Marston said. “Even if we’re not gonna come back and win that game, hopefully we'll build momentum for the next game—that’s what we did.”

They did, indeed. Davidson stormed out of the gate in game three, jumping out to an 11-0 lead and rolling past the Lady Mocs 15-2. The momentum was theirs for good. Marston then guided the Wildcats to a decisive 15-10 thumping of the Lady Mocs in the match’s fourth and final game.

After the game, Marston described her emotional state as one of “elation and total fatigue.”

“Let me just tell you how dog-tired we were today,” glimmered an ecstatic Mordini. “We played a tough match against Greensboro, then an extremely tough match against Furman, and then had to duke it out against Chattanooga. We'd already beaten them twice this year, and they say you can't beat a good team three times. But we're testament that it can be done.”

Semi-finals
The Wildcats toppled Furman’s Lady Paladins in a hard-fought contest on Saturday evening. After winning the first contest, Davidson sunk to a 12-5 deficit in game two before winning 10 of the next 11 points to earn the victory. Furman captured the third game, but Davidson pulled away in the fourth, earning a 15-6 win in the final game.

Lawrence paced the attack with 22 kills, while juniors Brooke Bentley and Mordini chipped in 16 and 15, respectively. Sophomore setter Erica Schwartz delivered 62 assists, while freshman Kaitlyn Martin delivered a game-saving 23 digs.

“Furman’s a great team, we had to battle really hard,” Marston commended. “They ran a really good slide offense—we hadn’t seen that many slides out of one offense, and we knew we had to block well and dig around that well. And we did.”

Quarter-finals
Davidson knocked off UNC-Greensboro in the opening round, 15-12, 15-6, 15-11. Though a #8 seed, the Spartans wereNot a rollover opponent. “Greensboro is going to be a tough draw for us,” Marston predicted last week. “We don’t match up particularly well against them.” Nonetheless, the Wildcats cruised to three straight wins behind Mordini’s 16 kills and 17 digs. Bentley also notched 17 digs, Gina Lawrence powered 11 kills, Schwartz recorded 48 assists, and freshman Roberta Quis recorded a team-best .318 kill percentage. Marston explained, “Greensboro did a great job. We'd never gotten past the first round, so I wanted us to be real confident and aggressive throughout it.” 31-3. Enough said.

The season was especially sweet for seniors Gina Lawrence and Ginny Quis. Major contributors since their freshman year, Lawrence and Quis saw the program improve steadily from its 5-11 conference mark in 1996. “Four years ago,” Marston explained, “I told Gina and Ginny: ‘I want you to be part of the building program. But you have to be dedicated to it, because there’s going to be ups and downs.’” Marston stayed true to her promise, forging the floundering Wildcats into serious contenders after just two seasons at the helm. Davidson ascended to third, second, and first place finishes in ’97, ’98, and ’99 respectively. The Tar Heel-turned-Wildcat earned Southern Conference Coach of the Year honors in ’98 and ’99, and was recognized as Davidson’s Coach of the Year for 1998-99. “What can you say about Lisa?” pondered a proud Mordini. “Second year in a row she’s conference coach of the year. Incredible.”

Most impressively, the program has been resurrected in the face of overwhelming disadvantages. Marston has operated with only 1.5 scholarships (by far the fewest in a conference where many programs are almost fully-funded). To top it off, she has had to work within the most stringent academic standards in the conference—one SportsChannel commentator recently referred to Davidson as “the SAT capital of the world.” Athletic Director Jim Murphy had high words of praise for this departmental gem. “This volleyball team is a model program for Davidson athletics. When you look at the leadership the coach has provided, and the number of top student-athletes she has recruited in the past few years, it truly is impressive.”

This remarkable recruiting has enabled Marston to inject a higher caliber of volleyball into the Wildcat program. “As a coach, I don’t try to have a personal system that I make everybody mold to. Every year I try to see our strengths and our weaknesses, and then figure out a system that works for us. This year, it was a very fast offense—we've got the setters that can handle that and the hitters that can be successful at it. We’ve never had the sharpness to be able to do these things before.” In addition, Marston has brought a new defensive look to the Wildcat attack. “This is the first year that we've run two different defenses.” That flexibility has added a powerful weapon to Davidson's arsenal. The coach cites an early-season contest against Eastern Tennessee State University: “In that match, we changed defenses on match point, dug up the ball, and put it away for the match. That’s an option we wouldn't have had in prior years.”

But amidst all the attention paid to strategy and athleticism, Marston has made personal leadership a focus of her tenure. “We work a lot on team-building. We make sure there’s always a sense of team. When all else fails, they're such good friends that they want to do well for each other.” She attributes much of this camaraderie to the senior leadership exuded by Quis and Lawrence. “The leadership has been phenomenal. You cannot put a value on that type of leadership.”

Davidson looks to extend their unfathomable successes with a trip to the NCAA Division I volleyball tournament after Thanksgiving. “Davidson is all about overachieving,” Murphy proclaims. “And that’s what this volleyball team has exemplified this year.”

Mike Anderson