THE DAVIDSONIAN | SPORTS

1999 Deep South Tournament

@ Freshman Agnes Bateman tears downfield. Mike Anderson

@ Kate Schoening stops a Lady Mountaineer in her tracks. Mike Anderson

@ Lea Jaeger patrols the backfield. Mike Anderson

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999

@ Megan Skiles’ father celebrates a Wildcat goal. Mike Anderson

For the love of the game

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

At a gathering of Charlotte-area basketball media last week, head basketball coach Bob McKillop lauded the virtues of Davidson’s athletic programs. “Bigger is not better,” McKillop proclaimed while describing the emphasis on character and commitment that prevails over all at this institution.

With prima donnas like Peter Warrick at Florida State garnering media attention for their off-the-field exploits every bit as much as their athletic endeavors, the message seemed particularly poignant.

“I don’t have to open up the paper in the morning wondering which of my players was arrested last night,” praised McKillop.

His message about the beauty of Davidson athletics was moving—but I didn’t fully appreciate it until two days later, while attending the Deep South Field Hockey Tournament.

As I navigated through the tiny suburban streets, I was a bit surprised to find that they did not lead to professionally-manicured playing turf engulfed by a bustling post-season crowd. Instead, I found myself staring at a cow pasture with one tiny bleacher, a pair of goals, and a small wooden dugout structure that played home to two benches and a scorer’s table.

I tried to quell my disappointment by repeating McKillop’s words like a mantra in the echoes of my mind, “Bigger is not better...Bigger is not better.”

At first, the assurance seemed a lot like a hollow, “sour grapes” excuse. But that sentiment didn’t last long.

The Wildcats emerged victorious in the morning contest, handing host Catawba College a sound 6-1 defeat. I was duly impressed by the talent displayed on the field, but even more so by the intensely festive atmosphere created by the Wildcat players and fans alike. But “bigger things” beckoned, and I drove back to Davidson early that afternoon for the Wildcat football game against Hampden-Sydney.

It didn’t take long for me to realize that I couldn’t stay away. So at 3:00 that afternoon, I found myself on the road, en route back to Salisbury for the Wildcats’ afternoon contest in the tournament’s semi-finals.

Sitting on the sideline of the roughshod meadow (er, hockey field), I watched McKillop’s words in action. The 24 young ladies donned in Wildcat red and black epitomized all that Davidson prides itself in.

They fought with valor and passion—but more importantly, they did it with the noblest of motivations. They weren’t anticipating professional contracts. They weren’t striving for the next Nike commercial. And they weren’t basking in the glory of thousands of fans cheering their names and seeking their autographs.

In fact, the crowd of 40 or so Wildcat supporters on Saturday consisted entirely of the players’ own families. Not one other Davidson student was in attendance. But that didn’t seem to matter much. Because Megan Skiles’ parents drove seven hours from Pasadena, Maryland for the weekend. And Amanda Mordavsky’s family endured an even longer journey from South Windsor, Connecticut.

The Charlotte Observer didn’t assign a reporter. But each and every girl I spoke with made a point to graciously thank me for making the trip to support their team.

There were no cheerleaders on hand. But Shana Byer’s father teamed up with Jennie Gold’s dad to lead the Wildcat faithful during timeouts: “Give me a ‘C’... ‘C!’ Give me an ‘A’... ‘A!’...”

And in the face of menacing arrogance from Catawba fans and players alike, Davidson’s ‘Cats kept cool heads and competitive spirits. At each game’s end, the Wildcats cheered, “Good game (opponent’s name)! Thank you refs! Thank you fans! Go ‘Cats!”

On that autumn afternoon, the sport was distilled to its purest form. Stripped of the arrogance, ego, and grandeur of some big-time college athletic programs, the Wildcat players and fans displayed inspiring innocence, spirit, and camaraderie.

In fielding Coach Jen Halliday’s squad, Davidson sported a top-caliber hockey team, all the while upholding the virtues that this community holds dear.

I wish I could say that Davidson triumphed over Radford University in the afternoon semifinal. Instead, a stunning goal in the game’s waning seconds sent the contest into overtime, but Radford prevailed in the sudden-death period.

Nonetheless, Saturday afternoon in Salisbury was not just another “great day to be a Wildcat.”

It was a day when our school’s field hockey program epitomized Davidson athletics at its finest.