12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

New curator stirs up the VAC

By Katie Wilson
Staff Writer

A new art curator was recently hired to temporarily take over administration and maintenance duties at the Katherine and Tom
Belk Visual Arts Center (the VAC). Brad Thomas, who joins Davidson after working at the Light Factory in Charlotte, will
be handling curator responsibilities at the Van Every and Smith galleries contained within the VAC until a nationwide search finds
someone to permanently handle the duties.

Thomas’ career began during his undergraduate years at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte, when he worked as a volunteer
intern at the Light Factory, a gallery of contemporary photography and center for lectures, classes, and workshops. Following several years
of volunteer work, he was contracted to install some exhibitions within the gallery, which led to a job as exhibition
coordinator. Thomas also financially supported the Light Factory by donating to its annual art auction.

Interview with Brad Thomas, new Curator of the VAC:

DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING STAFF: So what is the job description of a curator?

THOMAS: Well, here at Davidson it’s a little different than some places. There’s not a staff here, it’s really a
one-person show. Generally, the responsibilities of the curator are to select artwork for exhibition in the galleries, to publish invitations
to and announcements of upcoming exhibitions, to write press releases, and at a college, to oversee some of the work-study
students. So basically, it’s a little bit of everything. I have just come from a position as the exhibition coordinator
at the Light Factory, which is a gallery of contemporary photography that focuses on lectures, classes, and workshops in Charlotte.
That job dealt more with shippers, inventory, and installation. Here, there is more responsibility in selecting the work and applying
for grants. This is a fairly typical position at a one-gallery facility where it is not huge and does not
require an entire administrative staff. It does not have some of the functions that other art galleries have. For example,
there is not a huge education outreach or fundraising program at the VAC, and that does take a lot of
strain off of me.

DALS: You said the main function of the curator at the VAC is the selection of works for the gallery.
Do you have other responsibilities in art, and not public relations?

THOMAS: Yes, my other responsibilities include the care and inventory of the permanent collection. We have 2600 pieces that belong
to Davidson College. They range from 15th-century etchings to original paintings to modern photography and prints. Part of my job
involves making sure those are attended to.

DALS: So before this summer you worked at the Light Factory. How were you recruited for that position?

THOMAS: I had interned at the Light Factory when I was an undergraduate student at UNCC. I was getting my
visual arts degree, and the Light Factory is a fairly logical place to intern. After that internship, I volunteered a
lot of time there. So I basically knew the ropes, and it made sense for me to work there.

DALS: What did you do in between being an undergraduate and being exhibition coordinator?

THOMAS: I mostly did freelancing, but I also did everything from hauling antiques to building furniture. I worked more on
craftsmanship than art for a while.

DALS: What is your main interest?

THOMAS: Producing visual art.

DALS: So that ties in well with being a curator.

THOMAS: Yes. Well, somebody once told me everyone has a day gig. The artist's dream of course is only to
produce art, but to be able to survive in that way is difficult. It is fortunate to be immersed in
art all day, art that I actually like, and then be able to go to the studio and produce my
own. It is also great to be in an educational environment that encourages creative individuality. Being a part of that
is really what draws me to Davidson. Also, being able to use my experience, the people and art that I
know of, to bring here to help students is really wonderful. Also, the gallery’s primary function is to let students
see work by contemporary, practicing artists. Occasionally there are historical shows, but students can really learn by seeing live, new
art. I really enjoy being able to exhibit artists who I believe in personally. I know how much I’ve been
helped in my career, and it’s also good to be able to pass that help on.

DALS: What kind of art has your career been focused on?

THOMAS: It is really kind of hard to describe. Mostly, I do photo-based mixed media.and installation. I am very interested
in new media, I mean video and film, but I haven’t really explored those areas as much. I have a
North Carolina Visual Arts fellowship. That grant has helped me to have three shows coming up before the end of
this year, and three shows in the beginning of next year. In addition to my work as a curator, I'll
be very busy.

DALS: Are the shows local?

THOMAS: No, none of them are in the Charlotte area. They are in Charleston, Raleigh, Alabama, the state museum of
North Carolina, and two shows in Greensboro. I do all the installation of my work, so I'll be traveling a
good bit.

DALS: So how did you get interested in photography?

THOMAS: (pause) That’s a really difficult question to answer. I don’t really know. I was kind of in the generation
that had a television as the babysitter. So I often see flashing images, and I think that is just how
I visualize art, as well. It is amazing how early experiences define your interests like that. It’s such an unusual
mix of things that I am interested in anyway. I also believe there are no rules to making art as
long as it’s interesting, so photography is not my only medium. I'm interested in painting, and all of the media
have their individual should probably also add that I see the disciplines individually, and when I begin a piece I
am only thinking of using one of them. Then, after they are done, it is possible to bring them all
together in the installation. The installation, or setup of an exhibit, is very interesting. I’m able to envelop the viewer
and take them to another place in a way that traditional art cannot.

DALS: What kind of place can students hope to be taken to in upcoming months?

THOMAS: The exhibits that will open in the next two months are the faculty show, containing works by Herb Jackson,
Court Savage, and Russ Warren. We also have a drawing show coming in October.

Solutions to Crossword
« « Don't peek!

On the Scene at Davidson COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. Keep that coffee flowing. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
William Tucker Exhibit. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the Belk Visual Arts Center.
Jumpin’ Java. If the coffeehouse wasn’t enough, we have this! 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.
CROP Lunch. Eat crop: 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Fundraiser for Turkish relief. Keep an eye out for the table
on the first floor of Chambers. 10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Juggling Fest. A festival of fierce juggling frenzy. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Coffeehouse. Keep that coffee flowing. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Juggling Fest. Manipulation of objects by hand. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. and 5 p.m. - 11:00 p.m. in the
Morrison Room and Home Room.
Discover Davidson. It’s here to be discovered. All day. On campus.
Juggling Fest. They just can’t stop their hands from moving. 8 a.m. - 3 p.m. in the Morrison and Home
rooms.
Chess Club. Still can’t find Bobby... 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Jumpin’ Java. No juggling. Just coffee. Outpost. 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

TUESDAY
Fundraiser for Turkish relief. Keep an eye out for the table on the first floor of Chambers. 10:00 a.m. -
4:00 p.m.
“Bonnie and Clyde” Gangsters. Together on screen. Go see it. Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY
Faculty Art Show Opening. Evening at the VAC.

THURSDAY
FILM — “Bonnie and Clyde” End your Thursday here at Davidson on a bang! Go see Bonnie and Clyde do
their thing. Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

FRIDAY
Lunar Luau! Down on Patterson Court, you will find something different to do. It’s the Luau from 9 p.m. -
12:00 a.m.

SATURDAY
The Fettucini Brothers. Juggling their way into our hearts, here come the brothers. From 8 - 9:30 p.m. the fun
doesn’t stop in Hodson Hall. More frenzies of juggling await.
Ice Cream Social. 9:00 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. Free ice cream (I think). Why not go? 900 Room.

SUNDAY
Jumpin’ Java. No juggling. Just coffee. Outpost. 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

MONDAY
