i DAVIDSONIAN

Student Body Column

By Jenny Hapcoop
Student Health Advisor

Okay, here’s a little scenario. You are at a party on the Court, getting your groove on, and enjoying some beverages. The time is close to 12:30 a.m. The house has reached that crowded state when there just isn’t room to maneuver. You contemplate dancing more, but decide instead to get some air. Sitting on the ledge of the house’s back porch, you are surveying the party and see a friend becoming intimate with a guy. The girl is wearing the customary black pants. She is engaged in “conversation” with a guy who is definitely invading her personal space. Since you are getting tired, but are not quite ready to leave, you continue to watch their “little interaction.” Flirtatiously she smiles. He leans in and kisses her. She leans back in an effort to convey disinterest. The guy’s arms seize her and pull the two closer together for a serious kiss. A few seconds later she manages to push him off of her.

How do you, the observer on the ledge, define what just happened to your friend? Did she hook-up? Did she do it all willingly, or did he decide how the night would go?

While the above scenario never progressed beyond sloppy kisses on the back porch of a fraternity house, situations similar to the one described in the above paragraph occur every Saturday night. Unfortunately, many of these experiences do progress to a point both parties regret. How many times have you heard the gossip about the girl who went down on a guy who she only just met probably because she was drunk? What about the couple that had sex without a condom because neither one thought that they would have sex, but both in their terrific lust—well, it happened? And finally, what about the person who came home sullen and shaking the morning after the big party, and who you later learned had been cajoled into having sex?

On Tuesday, January 26, Scott Lindquist spoke to Davidson College about the aspects of date rape. His program, humorously titled “Hooking-Up 101,” challenged Davidson men and women to discuss and question their beliefs and perceptions regarding date rape. What constitutes rape? When is a man, or woman, violated? According to Lindquist, rape is any unwanted sex that is vaginal, oral, or anal. So, how does one know when sex is wanted?

Nearly all the men and women who gathered in the 900 Room, in the College Union agreed that sex is unwanted when one of the parties involved says, “No.” Interesting though is that women said that one “No” was sufficient. The majority of the men, however, argued that they needed to hear “No” at least twice before they would get the message.

What does this mean? Do Davidson men really have more trouble hearing than Davidson women? EVERYONE, listen up: ONE “NO” IS ALL IT TAKES, case closed and hook-up terminated.

Lindquist took the issue of consent a bit further when he emphasized that “silence does not always mean consent.” So, how does one know if the other person is quiet because he or she is “into” what’s happening, or because he or she is simply hoping it will all stop soon? There is only one way to know: ASK! If you think you may be going too far, or if your partner hasn’t said anything encouraging in a while, stop what you are doing and get a “reality check.” If you like, try one of the following: “Is this okay?,” or “Do you want to do more?” Although the questions suggested here may seem silly out of context, asking them saves both parties a lot of stress. The most important thing is to know that a partner is willing.

And people, stopping to ask does not make one any less sexy, or less of a romancer. In fact, pausing to ask whether things are all right between the two of you may make you all the more special in the other person's eyes.

FUN, FUN, FUN

By Trey Doves

Fun, Fun, Fun

1. Trade 1. They get waxed.
5. Enclose 2. Earning
10. Store 3. Fresh
14. Citizen 4. He had a dragon.
16. Accidental exclamation 6. Lowing
17. Beach Boys song 7. Beast
19. Tear down 8. Italian mountain
20. Underground system 9. Chip’s namesake
21. “Isn’t ___ Pity” 10. Beach Boys song
22. Frequently 11. Thing over there
23. Lion’s beard 12. Exude
25. Golf gadget 13. 1 of 5 W's
26. Feeling 18. Militias
30. “Cherry Pie” group 22. Poetic above
34. Towed 24. Common conjunction
35. Jones or Hanks 25. Scottish cap
36. Excitement 26. Therapy of convulsions
37. Simpsons bus driver et al. 27. Consumed
38. Pass away 28. Sweet precedent
39. Singers DiMucci and Celine 29. Beach Boys song
40. Nothing in Spain 30. Sorrow
41. Male object 31. Single
42. Trumpet relative 32. Hawaiian geese
43. Cracked in half 33. Challenges
45. Skim like milk 35. Tulip guy Tiny
46. Mason product 38. i
47. Ancient Irishman 39. “T" or “J” guy
48. “Such As I” 41. 41-Across match
51. Actress West 42. Baseball's ironman
52. Singer Fitzgerald et al. 44. Friend
57. Outbreak 45. Meek and weak
58. Beach Boys song 47. Mediterranean tree
60. Oven 48. Noah’s and Moses’ creations
61. Coral reef 49. Falter
62. Cheap alcohol 50. Norwegian capital
63. Pig 51. Partner
64. Confederate 53. Hot rock
65. Middle Easterner 56. Uppity one

Davidson College Communications
Rugrats Chili: Kristen Taylor, Brenna Tendall, Beck Bergner, Geoff Evans, and Deidre Tindall