THE DAVIDSONIAN

Leahy

By Wesley H. Goldsberry
Editor in Chief

The 1998-99 Davidson College Artist Series will stage its third event of the year on Monday, February 22 in Love Auditorium.

“Please tell me it’s not going to be another drama thing. I mean, Brian Bedford was swell and all, but mostly just because he appeared on ‘Cheers’ and has probably met Norm. And then ‘Tartuffe’ got cancelled, only to be replaced by ‘Twelfth Night.’ It’s high time we had one of those new age, quasi-Celtic abstract performance troupes that get naked on stage and spit fire and stuff.”

I totally agree with you. That’s why I’m pleased to announce that the Canadian, quasi-Celtic band Leahy is coming to Love Auditorium on Monday, just in time to scratch that Winter Solstice itch that we’ve all been enduring for months now. Although Leahy remains fully clothed and refrains from use of incendiary devices during their concerts, they have still nearly climbed to the apex of the Billboard world music charts - as high as #4 with their self-titled CD “Leahy.” No small feat, “Leahy” eclipsed both the pompous Michael Flatley’s “Lord of the Dance” (#15) and Mandy “My name is Inigo Montoya... You killed my father... Prepare to die” Patinkin’s “Mamaloshen” (#11).

What makes Leahy so popular?
1.) They’re Canadian, and their album went platinum in Canada.
2.) Their fiddler, Donnell Leahy, is purported to be one of the world’s greatest. He could probably even pull off “The Devil Went Down to Georgia” and “Ants Marching.” He is just that sassy.

The opening track on their current CD sounds a lot like Tori Amos meets your average backbeat-infested Ceili band, but it quickly turns into a rosinfest for Donnell, who is clearly the center of attention of the group. Said group is comprised of Donnell and eight of his Leahy brothers and sisters, ranging in age from 19 to 32. All of them are into stepdancing, which you will see them do quite a lot of if and when you head to Love Auditorium on Monday at 8:00 (or is it 8:15) p.m. to see the show. Not only are they all talented musicians and dancers, but they all sport the patented Leahy “raven-haired good looks,” to quote one critic. Bring some binoculars and judge for yourself.

The band’s immense popularity has allowed them to tour with the likes of Shania Twain and the Chieftains, godfathers of Irish folk music. So for anyone interested in absorbing riotous stomping of feet and a myriad of piano, fiddle, and drum strains, head over to Love Auditorium on Monday. And watch out for the beer cans left over from the Bela Fleck concert.

The Davidson Department presents
Hodson Hall
College
February 17-20; 8:00 p.m.
February 21; 2:00 p.m.

Theatre

Continued from page 9

...of musculature who pulls a four-ton elephant... using only his teeth! All of these extraordinary individuals are sensationally showcased in this year’s production of the Greatest Show on Earth™! Death-defying displays of strength, skill, and spirit are expertly elocuted by Ringmaster Jim Ragona. The fleet-footed Quiros of Spain demonstrates unparalleled balance and bravado atop the highwire. Precocious pintsize pachyderms Benjamin and Shirley amaze and amuse with their remarkable repertoire of tricks. The three amazing Ayala sisters hang by only their hair, high above the hippodrome. Exuberant acrobats from Gabon in central Africa, a daring duo bravely blasted from a colossal cannon, Olympic silver medal-winning rhythmic gymnasts from Bulgaria and, of course, awesome elephants and magnificent tigers. The world-famous Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey clowns round out the roster of gasps and guffaws.

This all-new Edition of the Greatest Show on Earth not only invites audiences to see wonders from around the world, but ticket holders may also experience the world of the circus up close and personal, one hour before every performance. Children of All Ages are invited...down onto the arena floor to stand amid the Three Rings and meet Ringling Bros. artists and animals during this Three Ring Adventure™. The circus continues to thrill audiences. Daniel Ruffo and his elephant co-stars Ringling Bros. & Barnum and Bailey Limited Engagement: Feb. 17 - 21 at the Charlotte Coliseum.

Wed. FEB. 17 at 7:30 PM
Opening Night - Tickets Only $9.00!
By Phone: (704) 522-6500
www.ringling.com
Coliseum Box Office
Independence Arena Box Office

Thu. FEB. 18
10:30 AM - 7:30 PM

Fri. FEB. 19
10:30 AM - 7:30 PM*

Sat. FEB. 20
11:00 AM* - 3:30 PM* - 7:30 PM

Sun. FEB. 21
1:30 PM - 5:30 PM

* KIDS UNDER 12 SAVE $2.00 on tickets!
TICKET PRICES STARTING AT $10.50

Poetry in the Nuyorican style
Continued from previous page

Originally known as Nuyorican Poets, they named themselves after a poets’ and writers’ hub in Manhattan’s Lower East Side called the Nuyorican Poets Cafe. This cafe, which existed from the mid-’70s to 1982, was resurrected in 1988 with an adventurous spirit. The atmosphere of the cafe came to Davidson for the first time two years ago. It returned at 8:00 p.m. on Friday.

The first of the three performers was Samantha Coerbell. She calls both New York and Trinidad & Tobago home. As the youngest of the poets, her credits include the anthology Aloud! Voices From the Nuyorican Poets Cafe. Freshman Steven Ballantyne said of Coerbell’s performance that, “she isn’t afraid to just say what she feels. She seemed to connect with me.” Her show-stealing performance of “Breezing through J. Crew” battered the 900 Room with humor while also exposing the difficulty women face when trying to be the models they see in catalogues.

The second poet was Brenda Coultas, an introspective performer whose mannerisms added to her quiet, ironic humor. Her prose background invades her poems. Coultas’ book Early Films: A Collection of Prose and Poems seems to dissolve the boundary between the two genres. Her work can also be found in over fifteen publications including two audio recordings. She has been featured in Single Styles and Oculus magazines.

The third and most unconventional poet was Edwin Torres. Edwin’s work is also found in Aloud!, and he has published the book I Hear Things People Haven’t Really Said and the CD Holy Kid. He has also appeared on MTV’s Spoken Word Unplugged. He is a poet that must not only be heard but seen, as his most well-received poem on Friday, the extremely visual “Indian Hand Poem,” can attest. Each of the poets also gave their own workshop on Friday and dined with students after their 8:00 performance. Almost as soon as they flew in, they flew back out to destinations unknown. Although gone, if their message continues to be heard, we may begin to see and hear poetry echo over the buildings instead of merely being bound in them.