THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1999

First half of road trip nets conference win for the ‘Cats
By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

Despite two impressive performances on the road this week, the Davidson men’s soccer team went 1-1 in two pivotal Southern
Conference matches. The Wildcats managed a disappointing 2-0 loss to the College of Charleston Tuesday, but they bounced back Friday
against Georgia Southern, notching a decisive 3-1 victory.

Tuesday’s loss to the Cougars was especially heartbreaking as the Wildcats played very well, controlling almost all aspects of the
game. They opened the game on a tear, attacking the Cougars’ net relentlessly and eventually recording 14 shots by the
end of the first half. Forward Chris Norbet’s near goal in the fifth minute was symbolic of the Wildcats’ misfortune
throughout the match. Settling a ball nearly 30 yards out, Norbet looked up to see the Charleston keeper out of
position. Norbet drove the ball above the hands of the Charleston goalkeeper but was foiled when the ball hit the
bottom of the crossbar and bounced out. The ‘Cats had many more scoring chances throughout the afternoon but failed to
find the back of the net.

In contrast, the Cougars gained a victory by making the most of their limited opportunities. The Cougars scored first on
a counterattack in the 40th minute. Pressing hard and perhaps too anxious to get a goal, the Wildcats’ defense got
out of position and opened themselves up for a right-side counterattack. Charleston forward Jeff Hyland chipped the ball over Davidson
keeper Soren Johnson’s hands and finished Charleston’s first opportunity. The Cougars struck again just four minutes later, counterattacking a Davidson
team that had grown desperate for a goal. In a two-on-two situation, a Davidson defender stumbled and allowed Charleston’s Bobby
Smyrniotis to dribble through and find an open attacker for the goal.

Davidson failed to come back in the second half, and the game ended leaving the ‘Cats frustrated and bewildered. Davidson
out-shot Charleston 22-9 and dominated corner kicks 17-1. Unfortunately, the impressive stats never translated into goals and the ‘Cats dropped
to 0-2 in the conference.

Friday, however, the ‘Cats overcame their goal-scoring blues on the road, trouncing the Georgia Southern Eagles 3-1. Senior forward and
scoring leader Andrew Holbrook netted Davidson’s first in the 25th minute off a Pat Miller cross. Attacking from his fullback
position, Miller sent the ball across the 18-yard box and Holbrook calmly found a spot in the lower corner that
was out of the reach of the Eagles’ keeper. “Patty did all the work and hit the ball to me
in step,” Holbrook said, “so I had a lot of time to finish it.”

Junior midfielder Dane Erickson kept the momentum rolling at the 48:54 mark, scoring a direct free kick from 18 yards
out. His freshman year bread-and-butter shot, Erickson’s sharply angled free kick bent around the wall and found the upper near
corner. Noting that the play is usually intended for Dave Beuhler crashing the near post, Erickson commented, “I was still
looking for Beuhler, but it [the free kick] was so close that I knew if I got it on net
I could score.”

Sophomore forward Paul Watson finished the scoring in the 75th minute, taking advantage of an opportunity set up by senior
midfielder Randy Culbertson. After receiving a flicked header from Chris Norbet, Culbertson streaked down the field, blowing by his mark
and beating another defender before hitting the ball low and hard at the far post. A sliding Watson came up
to finish it off.

Georgia cut Davidson’s lead to two with a goal in the 49th minute, but this was Davidson’s game. The ‘Cats
controlled the game from start to finish, and this time they translated their statistical dominance (shots 25-11, corner kicks 8-2)
into a victory.

Davidson (4-6, 1-2) looks ahead this week to two more winnable Southern Conference matches as they continue their road trip.
Tuesday they travel to Charleston, SC, to meet The Citadel and then move on to Virginia to face VMI Saturday.

Anna Judy.

Wildcats optimistic midway through roller coaster season
By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

Just ten games into this season, the Davidson men’s soccer team has already experienced enough highs and lows to last
a lifetime. Following two huge victories over Clemson and South Carolina, a No. 5 Southern Conference preseason ranking transformed overnight
into the glory of a No. 5 nationalranking. However, the glory went as quickly as it came as the 'Cats
fell into a slump that brought them as low as 0-2 in the conference and 3-6 overall. Davidson’s fortunes have
recently stabilized as they regained their form against Georgia Southern, but the course of the season thus far is still
a story in itself. Currently at 4-6, Davidson’s season is a story of potentials—potential for tremendous victory and the potential
for frustrating defeat. With opening wins against a pair of the best squads in the country, the team shocked everyone
but themselves. Asking the players about the keys to these early victories, the answer is almost unanimous—teamwork.

“In my four years here, that is the most united a team as we have ever been,” said senior Andrew
Holbrook in reference to the nationally acclaimed victories. “Everyone was willing to do the extra work for each other.” Davidson’s
unity and work ethic in the first weeks of the season were not an accident of circumstance, but rather a
focal point since the end of the 1998 season. Assistant coach Matt Spear, captain of Davidson’s 1992 Final Four team,
has ingrained in the team the belief that the single greatest factor in getting early season wins is team unity.
Seeking this goal, senior captain Hart Roper organized a pre-season mountain retreat for the team in order to develop a
sense of camaraderie even before stepping on the field.

“Hart Roper is doing a great job stepping up and keeping the team together,” sophomore forward Chris Norbet commented, “but
we also have a lot of leaders who aren’t wearing the armband. People like Andrew Holbrook and Lawrence Cann are
demonstrating their leadership.” Holbrook added, “The team’s leadership is really coming from within this year.” Even more, unity and leadership
have accounted for other successes this year and are not just isolated to those first victories. All those who saw
the 'Cats reel off an amazing four goals in four minutes against Buffalo are fully aware of the team’s exciting
potential.

However, Davidson has also recently shown its potential for dismal and frustrating defeats, including a painful loss to conference foe
the College of Charleston. Going into Friday's game, the 'Cats had dropped six of their last seven games and left
many fans in a quandary. So what exactly has happened? The first possible answer is psychological; maybe undue pressure affected
the team. Playing the familiar and possibly even comfortable role of the underdog against national powerhouses Clemson and South Carolina
did not place any pressure on the 'Cats' shoulders. But after winning those first two games, the roles reversed. Davidson
became hunted—the nationally ranked team that others sought to defeat.

“We’ve always been an underdog team that wins because we out-work other teams. The ranking created a pressure that may
have caused a letdown,” commented Norbet. Moreover, Davidson has recently hit a scoring drought. While the team has scored prolifically
at times, as in the Buffalo game, in five of their six losses the 'Cats have failed to get on
the board. Their inability to score was the dominant story in the losses to Charleston and St. Mary’s, and many
of the players have identified scoring, or the lack thereof, as the largest factor in the recent losing streak.

So, where does the team go from here? Both Erickson and Holbrook recommend that the team settle down, take the
season one game at a time, and continue to learn and develop. To the outsider, it is obvious the team’s
inconsistency points to the maturing that the Wildcats still have to do. Nevertheless, the 'Cats retain a firm confidence, as
Roper added, “We are sure that we will be where we need to be come tournament time.” At this point
in the season, it is clear that Davidson can be much worse than the #5 team in the country. But,
they have shown that they can be much better than #5 in the Southern Conference. They know, and have proven,
that they can beat the best teams in the country. This is something that no one can take from them
and will help maintain their confidence in the face of adversity.

So, will the 'Cats win the conference and find themselves in the NCAAs? While no one knows for sure, they
definitely have the potential and they know it.
