» Editorials TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999

Letters

Random Thoughts! So why do it? The dictionary defines friendship as “the sharing of a benevolent interest or concern” and “a person whom one knows, likes and trusts.” On one hand these definitions seem very straightforward, no hidden strings or underlying meanings. Right? Wrong! Exactly how does one define the words “knows, likes and trusts?” Sure, you can always go back to the dictionary, but what good is that going to do? You will only be sliding down a slippery slope of words and definitions that lead to more words with the need to be defined. In order to understand one definition, you need to grasp the ideas and concepts around so many others. A word like “friendship” can’t be defined so easily. In fact, each one of us has a different idea and definition of what a friendship is. So why am I sitting here trying to define a concept that is going to be different for everyone? In the same vein that one would try to define the idea of literary merit or what constitutes good art, a friendship can be just as baffling. Everybody playing has a different set of rules and these rules are always changing. Trying to figure people out and what motivates them to do certain things is enough to make you go crazy. The question arises again! It is human nature, we have to question things. If we didn’t question things, the world would come to a stand-still. Am I merely posing this question and trying to define the concept behind a friendship in order to propel myself on, or am I slowly trying to drive myself insane? I believe we all occupy a zone where we are neither in nor out of the know. For much like the definitions in our dictionaries and the concepts that we learn, as soon as you think you reach an understanding of one item, you discover that another doorway has opened with more questions. Another room, another set of doors. You find the key, you open another door and it leads you to another room. Your travels continue. It is ironic that we live a finite number of years, yet everywhere you look infinity extends. Our thought patterns, our bodies' cellular makeup, and even our definitions move in directions that have no boundaries. So what’s my point, or as one of my professors would say, so what? That is exactly it, you have to create your own definitions. Think! Define! Live!

Vac, Danuenaly Z

To the members of the senior class

An informational meeting to discuss the Watson Fellowship application process will be held on Wednesday, September 15 at 4:30 p.m. in the College Union, 900 Room. At this meeting, you will also hear about other post-graduate Fellowship opportunities. If interested, I hope to see you there on the 15th!

Thomas C. Shandley Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students

Regarding the Crosswords

Dear Sir/Madam,

The Davidsonian offers a good insight into the current campus scene. Living in the town allows access to this paper. In the age of p.c. (really d.c. Davidson correct), some editorial oversight for the crossword puzzle is in order. Crossword etiquette has in the past required correct spelling and limited exposure to bodily functions and anatomy. In the 8/30/99 issue, the answer “ocult” is truly obscure and incorrect. The clue “male reproductive organ” should be testis, or change the clue to organs. The effort to make these patterns is commendable. The editorial last sentence is confirmed by the unlaundered language mentioned above. In conformity with the crossword theme — bye-bye.

Joel Thurm Davidson, NC

Dealing with the withdrawal

Apology to the Class of 2003: This editorial makes repeated references to an institution that died before your time. The Johnston Gym renovations, the overachieving men’s soccer team, and Starbucks™ brand caffeine in the Union? All child’s play, as far as their relative impact upon our daily lives is concerned, when compared with the most pervasive alteration to strike Davidson this year: It’s called Microsoft Outlook Express, or “Outlook” for short, whose brazen overthrow of the regal PolluxDynasty occurred but a short three months ago. Outlook is now an integral part of your lives and mine, and although some Davidson students continue to live in denial of our loss, we must learn to let Pollux go. “I can’t see when my friends are online anymore, I can’t chat with them anymore, I mean... [Expletive]! Geez... Joey, get me some tissues...” If this sounds like you, Davidson is sponsoring several 12-step programs to help you cope. There's also a patch available, with three potency levels to help calm your dfingering cravings gradually.

While I haven't been losing sleep over the loss of Davidson's archaic email system, why have I even been thinking to compare the one with the other — could Pollux’s terminal format ever have kept up with Outlook’s mouse clicks? If Pollux and Outlook got into a fight, who would win? Questions worth asking, if for no other reason than simply to keep the college on its toes. (Has anyone seen the new Little dormitory first-floor lounge? Completely refurbished, but for all its improvements no longer contains a television or vending machines? A lounge without cable is no lounge at all.)

So, let’s compare. Outlook. Advantage: More like AOL. Disadvantage: More like AOL. Contained within an internet screen, Outlook lays out your email archive in an aesthetically-pleasing, colorful, well-organized grid with little yellow folders that you can click on to open them. But to get there, you first must type your screen name in a box, and then half the time get told that your authorization failed, but it puts you through to the next sign-on screen anyhow. Then, you type the name of your school and your name a second time, along with your password. Then, as long as OWC (who or whatever that is) decides it’s okay, shazzam, there you are — you have run the cyber-gauntlet. To read a message, you click on it, at which point Outlook opens it in its own window as its own website. If all you've got is a 56K modem, this takes forever. I do, however, appreciate how Outlook saves all the messages that you send in addition to the ones you receive. And with Outlook, you'll never spend an hour typing an email and attempt to send it, only to be told, “Disk quota exceeded.” Outlook also accommodates attachments (i.e. documents, pictures, etc.), which Pollux never could, as hard as it tried.

Pollux. You could spy on your classmates, chat with them, see who they were chatting with, see if they'd received your messages, and so forth — quite reminiscent of that “zero anonymity” phenomenon that is so inherently Davidsonian. The trump card for Pollux proponents, if there is one, was that legendary forum for bitchery: the plan file. When freshmen would find out that students had these publicly accessible personal message board things, reachable by typing “dfinger [so-and-so],” they could spend Friday nights burning the midnight oil, eating their quesadillas, and dfingering total strangers for hours. As Pollux went, so went the college’s most infamous procrastination tool — and so went, some will tell you, the “purest form of self-expression” that Davidson ever offered its students. If you want the straight dope on plan files, however, they were an outlet for reclusive Davidson students to translate the vile gruel of their angst into cryptic narrative poetry, and share their personal lives with the rest of the school, as if we made it a point to read them all. Plan files were dumb. If you want self-expression, there’s always sidewalk chalk. Actually, the more I write about plan files, the more I’m glad to see the wretched things go. One point for Outlook.

If for any reason, we miss Pollux because us seniors had spent three years getting to know our way around the seemingly prehistoric system, tripling our typing speed in the process. We’ll all miss the conveniences that it afforded, but we shouldn’t wax too nostalgic. If when you were a freshman, and you were given the choice between the two systems without ever having seen either one previously, wouldn’t you choose Outlook? Probably.