12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tree of the Week: Okame Cherry

By BRIAN CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

The natural world reveals to us the continuity and the rhythm of life’s cycles. Remembering the patterns of the past,
we find the assurance that each day will bring a new sunrise and each spring will bring new growth. But
the cycles of nature somehow resist the desensitized and deadened ways in which we so often experience repetition. Each new
sunrise is full of wonder, and the first blossoms of spring make us stop to see and smell their surprising
beauty. This week, the four Okame Cherry (Prunus x incamp) are spectacular with their pinkish-white flowers. The sudden changes in
these trees may symbolize life’s surprises.

The Okame cherry is a species that was introduced in 1947 by British cherry breeder Collingwood Ingram. This hybrid of
Prunus campanulata and Prunus incisa is able to withstand more harsh conditions than many other beautiful cherries. Its popularity has
grown rapidly among gardeners and horticulturists.

The tree is known more for its showy flowers than for its shady branches. Similar to most cherries, the wine-red
bark is smooth with a polished-looking shine. The leaves, light green in spring, grow darker by summer. This week, however,
it is the cherry’s blossoms that strike us as they cover the leafless branches with color. Look closely. These blooms
are nicely shaped as well. Dangling gently, they give the tree its name in Taiwan and parts of East Asia,
where it is known as the “Bell-flowered cherry.”

* UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAND

Representative:
Date:
Location:

INSTITUTE FOR

ARGENTINA
CHILE
COSTA RICA

Fall, Spring, or Full Year. Scholarships Available.

Study Abroad Information Session:
Steve Seaworth

Tuesday, February 23
11:00 am — 1:00 pm

Information Table
Union Lobby

For further information, contact the Institute for Study Abroad, Butler University, 4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208, Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax:
317/940-9704

STUDY ABROAD

BUTLER UNIVERSITY

Cancun

Parador $399
Laguna Inn $499
Aristos $599
Costa Real $629
Jamaica

Hotel Montego $399
Bungalow $589

Call today! Space is limited

Panama City
Quality Inn $99
Days/Ramada $139
H.I. Sunspree $169

All prices are based on Feb. 27 Boston departures and do not include departure taxes and fees of $57-$59 and
$9.00 handling charge.

1-800-648-4849
www.ststravel.com

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999

Our campus has four relatively young Okame cherry trees. One tree is in the grassy front yard of the Alumni
House, while another is under the Ginkgo trees in the backyard of the President’s House. The largest tree is between
Watts and Chambers. This tree was planted in 1996 to honor Joretta Archie. She retired after 35 years of working
in the Dean of Student’s Office. The youngest tree was planted in the spring of 1998 to commemorate the life
of Jason Takao Koyasu ’99, an international student from Japan who died in an automobile accident. Jason would have been
a senior this year.

We plant trees to remember life. We remember the daily interactions with our friends and co-workers. We remember the special
moments of our lives. And we remember the pain of loss, of life’s cycles unexpectedly interrupted. Memory is given life
in trees. They remind us of life’s unending cycles. But the beautiful blossoms of the Okame cherry break into this
turning and also force us to awaken to the beauty of life as it shows itself. The trees’ blossoms are
a celebration of life and a commemoration of special people that fill our lives with color.

@ Okame Cherry Tree

Everything You Ever Wanted To Know About Eating Problems But Didn’t Know Who To Ask

A panel of professionals and students will answer your confidential questions about food, eating, & health.

7:30 p.m. Wednesday
Morrison Room, Student Union

A program in conjunction with Eating Disorders Awareness

EATING ATTITUDES TEST —

Answer these questions using the following responses:
A=always S=sometimes U=usually R=rarely O=often N=never

1. I am terrified about being overweight.
2. I avoid eating when I am hungry.
3. I find myself preoccupied with food.
4. I have gone on eating binges where I feel I may not be able to stop.
5. I cut my food in very small pieces.
6. I am aware of the calorie and fat content of the foods I eat.
7. I particularly avoid foods with a high carbohydrate content.
8. I think others would prefer if I ate more.
9. I frequently vomit after eating.
10. I feel guilty after eating.
11. I am preoccupied with a desire to be thinner.
12. I think about burning up calories when I exercise.
13. Other people think I am too thin.
14. I am preoccupied with the thought of having fat on my body.
15. I take longer than other people to eat my meals.
16. I avoid foods with sugar in them.
17. I eat diet foods.
18. I feel that food controls my life.
19. I display self-control around food.
20. I feel that others pressure me to eat.
21. I give too much time and thought to food.
22. I feel uncomfortable after eating certain foods.
23. I engage in dieting behavior.
24. I like my stomach to be empty.
25. I enjoy trying rich foods.
26. I have the impulse to vomit after meals.

Scoring: 3 for never, 2 for rarely, 1 for sometimes, 0 for always, usually, and often. Total scores under 20
points indicate disordered eating. You would benefit from further evaluation at the Student Counseling Center, 892-2451.
