THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jacksonville edges Davidson 20-15, Wildcats fall

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

As Davidson fell to 0-2 following Saturday’s loss to Jacksonville University, the prospects of matching the magical spectacle of '98 are seeming increasingly distant. The bad news? The ’Cats find themselves winless, behind the proverbial “eight ball” in mid-September '99. The Dolphins ran over Davidson on Saturday’s home-opener. And the good? Just last season, the ‘98 Wildcat football team converted their 1-2 “eight ball” scenario into an eight-win, record-setting season. The question whispering around Richardson Stadium after Saturday’s 20-15 loss to Jacksonville University: Can the '99 edition recreate the magic that ignited the program just a few short months ago?

Quarterback Shaun Tyrance has faith that they can; “The guys played hard today. Everybody understands that we’re not out of it. We've got nine more games, and we know that something positive will come of this season.” Unfortunately, the preponderance of the positivity fell to Jacksonville on Saturday, as the Dolphins outlasted the ’Cats to earn their first season victory.

Head coach Steve Gilbert employed a balanced, and potent, offensive attack to put 20 points on the board — double the average scored against the Wildcat defense last season. After the Wildcat offense went three-and-out in their opening possession, Jacksonville converted a crucial 4th-down conversion to sustain an eventual 10-play, 72-yard touchdown drive. But Davidson bounced right back—with freshman quarterback Paul “The Demon of Dunwoody” Nichols at the helm, the 'Cats answered with an 8-play, 66-yard scoring drive of their own. Senior Eric Ferguson punched the ball across the goal line, giving the Wildcat offense their first touchdown of the season. A failed two-point conversion left the score at 7-6 at the end of the first quarter.

After consecutive illegal blocking penalties with about eight minutes to go in the second quarter, the 'Cats found themselves backed up against their own end-zone. Nichols dropped back to throw but was hit by an oncoming defender as he released the pass—the errant pass was picked off by Jacksonville safety Julio Izquierdo on the Davidson 25. On the very next play, running back Jon Underhill porpoised through the 'Cats defensive front and then exploded for a 25-yard touchdown run, putting the Dolphins up 13-6. The teams exchanged punts for the duration of the first half, and the ’Cats hit the locker room down by a touchdown.

The second half was marked by the return of Shaun Tyrance at the helm of the Wildcat offense. Three different quarterbacks took snaps for the ’Cats in the first half — and though both freshmen backups (Nichols and Graham Watson) put together impressive series, their shuffling through the lineup made the Wildcat offense every bit as dissociative as it was productive. “The plan was to start with Shaun, and if things didn’t get going early, we'd go to Paul,” explained Coach Landis. “During the first half, Nichols played really well, and we tried to ride his hot hand. [In the second half,] Shaun did a lot to prove himself. We expect him to lead us this year, but it is so nice to have a couple of talented young guys that can fill a role, too.”

Just under six minutes into the second half, freshman kicker Daniel Hanks tallied a trio of points for the ’Cats with his first field goal of the season, a 32-yarder that split the uprights. Jacksonville added another touchdown in the third quarter, to put the Dolphins up 20-9. With his team suddenly deep in a hole, Tyrance responded with force, marching his offense on a 79-yard scoring drive. The junior captain rushed for 50 yards, and passed for 22 more on the scoring drive, to close the gap to 20-15. Davidson's defense held firm, shutting out the Dolphins in the 4th quarter. But the Jacksonville defense was able to smother the Wildcat’s final offensive gasp — leaving Davidson stalled 27 yards shy of a touchdown as the clock expired.

“We played a bigger, stronger, and faster football team today,” said Landis. (Indeed, Jacksonville’s offensive line outmassed their Wildcat counterparts.)

Men’s hoopsters to open season at Siena

Press RELEASE
Davidson SID

Last year, Davidson's women took a shot at the preseason NIT. In 1999, the men are getting their chance at the most prestigious preseason basketball tournament in the country. The pairings for the preseason NIT were announced this afternoon, and Davidson will play at Siena in the first round on November 16. The time of the game is yet to be determined.

Davidson is coming off a 16-11 season with an 11-5 record in the Southern Conference to finish second in the North Division. The season ended on a sour note, however, as the Wildcats fell in the conference tournament in the second round after earning a bye in the first round.

Commentary
By Burain HARDIN
Staff Writer

Usually I marvel at all the traffic I encounter whenever I’m making my way along Interstate 77 towards our beloved Exit 30. It is always fun to watch the drivers in front of me jockey for position, each captain deftly maneuvering his Beamer or Explorer around the others in an attempt to take the lead. And, inevitably, riding with me is always at least one human speedometer — a buddy who gets his kicks by announcing the speed of every car that whizzes by. “They’re doing at least 80 or 85,” my pal declares. “Maybe even 90.”

Four starters return, including second-team all-conference performer Landry Kosmalski, who averaged 13.9 points per game and 8.6 rebounds. Siena had a terrific season in 1998-99, finishing with a 25-6 record and a berth in the NCAA Tournament. As the 13th seed, the Saints hung tough against the fourth-seeded Arkansas Razorbacks, losing 94-80. All five starters return for Siena, including four players who averaged double-figure points, led by...by senior guard Marcus Faison at 14.7. The two teams have met twice—first in the 1996-97 season in Davidson as the Wildcats won 73-64, with Kosmalski grabbing nine boards. The next season, on January 8, 1998, at Siena, the Saints outscored Davidson, 103-89. Three current Wildcat seniors made significant contributions in that game. Kosmalski scored 10 points, shooting guard Davor Halbauer had eight, and center Stephen Marshall chipped in seven. The winner of the contest will square off against the winner of the game at Ohio State between the Buckeyes and Notre Dame. Other first-round action on the 16th includes Hofstra at New Mexico State and Kansas State at Arizona. On the 17th, four more contests will take place: Arkansas State at Utah, Pennsylvania at Kentucky, San Francisco at Maryland, and Fordham at Tulane. The second round will take place on November 18-19 at home sites as well. The semi-finals and finals will be played in Madison Square Garden on November 24 and 26.

And you think I-77 is rough... On most days, I would take notice of someone driving 90 miles per hour and make a mental note of the make and model of the car so I'd know what to look for next time I’m on a dealer’s lot. But today, 90 mph looks to me like slow-motion instant replay. For the last three days, I have been in the thick of a battle so heated and fast-paced that anything below 100 mph reminds me of those tiny die-cast toy cars I used to race on my mom’s kitchen floor when I was five. This weekend-long battle is what I call an intense, adrenaline-pumping explosion of power. I call it the “Whoo! Motivator”—a deafening roar that rattles your bones and tweaks your every sense until all you can do is let out a long resounding “WHOO!” to keep from exploding. The rest of the world just calls it NASCAR.

NASCAR, a tidy acronym for the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, just celebrated its 50th Anniversary last year, a testament to Americans’ enduring fascination with cars and their love affair with going fast. One of the stops on the NASCAR circuit is the venerable Darlington Raceway, a 1.336 superspeedway located in my hometown of Darlington, South Carolina. It was the first racetrack of its kind in the country, built in 1949 on an old cotton field by a local businessman named Harold Brasington, who set the standard for the next half-century of racetrack construction.

This Labor Day weekend I had the privilege and pleasure of being a part of a milestone event at the Darlington Raceway—the 50th running of the country’s oldest superspeedway stock car event, the Southern 500. It was a milestone in the history of stock car racing as well as sports in general. After all, when an event such as the Southern 500 can successfully draw tens of thousands of spectators to the track year after year and millions more through television, I think there is cause to recognize it as having a significant impact on the sports culture of our country.

I was on the clock this past Southern 500 weekend, capping off what had been an incredible summer experience at the track. During race weekend, when I punched out for the day, sometimes I would hang around the track for a while, soaking up all the sights and sounds that have been the lifeblood of NASCAR fans for 50 years. I not only learned about the sport and its fans from some of the best in the business, I learned a bit about myself and found what I think is my niche. There is nothing quite as exhilarating as knowing you are a part of the success of a sporting event that will entertain millions. No matter what size role you play in the production, it is exciting just to be part of the show.

I realized that for all the fun people make of NASCAR fans, there really is no other sport in this country with such a fiercely loyal following. People invest their lives in their favorite drivers, purchasing luxurious (and sometimes not so luxurious) recreational vehicles and hopping from track to track each week just to keep tabs on their beloved drivers. Fans buy whatever cereal or motor oil is advertised on the hood of their favorites’ cars. And I thought how amazing it would be if we all lived life as completely as NASCAR fans devote themselves to their favorite drivers.

So don’t discount NASCAR. Next time you're clicking through the channels and find a NASCAR battle, don’t be so hasty to keep surfing. Think about the extremely high level of concentration it takes to pilot a machine at 190 mph for 500 miles; think about the technology invested in the development of a car like that; think about the engineering feats required to keep it running in top form. The world calls it NASCAR. I call it amazing.

Three Dolphins celebrate a touchdown over the ‘Cats. cat counterparts by an average of over 42 pounds. “But our guys played hard, and I’m not dissatisfied with our effort by any stretch of the imagination.” Landis’s ’Cats face the University of Sewanee at home on Saturday in a game the head coach calls “a gut check for us.” But retired Davidson football coach Dave Fagg, for one, trusts that the ‘Cats will come through. “I believe in Tim Landis, and I know that this is going to be a fun season. The ‘Cats are going to get started soon, and it’s gonna be a roll as good as we've ever seen them on.”

STUDENT SURVEY
Which of the following Wildcat squads has been the most exciting to watch so far this fall?
A) Men’s soccer
B) Women’s soccer
C) Volleyball
D) Football
E) Field Hockey

E-Mail your response to: mianderson@davidson.edu