DAVIDSON — Students sing carols outside Chambers at last Tuesday’s frigid Christmas party. 

Jake Harrington

Co-ed Eating Houses

Story continued from Front page

Coed Eating Houses, Round II

Chaplain Rob Spach ('84) attended Davidson while coed houses were enjoying a heyday. “It was a great atmosphere,” he recalls, “loads of fun.” Regarding the revival, Spach encourages, “I think it’s a great idea. There are a lot of great things about the Court as it is now, and I think a coed house would add even more good things. It would add an element that isn’t there now — an opportunity where both men and women have allegiance to the same organization. It would be great for students who want a coed eating environment.”

Critics point to the eventual failure of past co-ed eating houses. William Brown, Director of Student Activities, explains, “These kinds of things are cyclical. Students are interested in some things today that they won’t be ten years from now.”

Bill Giduz ('74) was a founding member of the first coed eating house in 1972. “We were a group of freshmen that wanted to create our own atmosphere,” the Director of College Communications recalls. “We felt kind of revolutionary in what we were doing.” After struggling to find a title for their trailblazing organization, the students settled on Emanon (No-name spelled backwards). “As far as keeping it going on a long-term basis, somehow that’s never worked yet,” said Giduz. “But there’s no reason not to offer it again as an option. Whether it will succeed or not, you never know — but it’s worth doing if there are enough students to make a feasible go at it.”

He Said, She Said

Carter and Erickson hope that the addition of a coed eating house will improve relations between male and female students. “This is a way to improve gender relations, simply from exposure. It’s the same way that co-ed dorms improve gender relations. The more time you spend with someone in a natural setting, the more you have to respect them. It’s going to foster a natural atmosphere for men and women to interact.”

“We don’t see this as the death of single-sex eating houses,” insists Carter. “We see it as another option.” As far as potential impact on the oft-criticized dating scene at Davidson? “I think it will give an arena for more dating to be possible,” Carter says, “but it’s certainly not a cure-all.” Erickson agrees, “I can’t say it’s going to improve dating necessarily, but it’s going to foster a natural atmosphere for men and women to interact.”

The idea has been festering for months, but just recently picked up steam. “We started thinking about it around the beginning of our sophomore year,” Erickson explains. “The idea that my co-ed group of friends had to section off didn’t seem very natural.”

“Davidson students are busy, so the social aspect of Davidson often gets funneled into eating — that’s where a lot of social interaction happens,” states Carter. “For independents, that option isn’t available as much.”

The college’s chief social programmer, William Brown, supports the notion. “My experience with coed houses is that they make a really good contribution... They are reasonably well-organized at this point. I can’t imagine why we would have said ‘no’ to them. Along procedural lines, I don’t see why they would be denied.”

Davidson offers visual support for AIDS awareness.

By Jessica Mering

AIDS Day by lining central campus walkways with luminaries. The six hundred luminaries were placed along paths near Chambers, Little Library, and the college union on December 2; each luminary was adorned with the symbolic red ribbon signifying AIDS awareness. This is the second year that the...Luminaries have been in place. They were organized this year by Georgia Ringle of Student Health, Rebecca Moore, and David Wheeler. Other members of the Davidson community also participated, including members of various residence halls, a group of students from North Mecklenburg High School, and Davidson College Presbyterian Church’s Regional AIDS Interfaith Network (RAIN).

December 1; the theme for World AIDS Day 1999 was “AIDS - End the Silence, Listen, Learn, Live!” The day has been recognized for eleven years and is coordinated by the American Association for World Health. The association seeks not only to make the public aware of the facts concerning AIDS but also to suggest fundraising and involvement opportunities to encourage individuals and communities to take action against AIDS. World AIDS Day is intended to increase support for those suffering from AIDS as well as to provide ways to contribute to AIDS research, prevention, and treatment.

Although Davidson does not have a formal group on campus to promote AIDS awareness, many students and faculty are involved in bringing activities to campus to support the cause, including Ringle and Dr. Mary Thornberry, a Political Science professor. In the past, the college has planted trees in support of AIDS awareness. There is a red maple outside of the Student Health Center which commemorates members of the Davidson community who have died of AIDS. Currently, there is an exhibit in the Union in remembrance of Davidson alumni who have died of AIDS. Each quilt square on display bears the name of one of AIDS’s victims and is accompanied by some words describing the person. The annual display is in its fourth year and is organized by Scotty Nicholls. The entire, internationally recognized AIDS quilt visited Davidson several years ago and Ringle hopes to bring select pieces of it back in the spring. She notes that the population, including the Davidson community, is “amazingly misinformed” about the transmission and severity of AIDS and she is looking for ways to increase activities and events which will raise awareness on campus. Next year, she hopes to implement the luminary project in a way so that each member of the community will have the opportunity to create and place one luminary, thus signifying the campus-wide acknowledgment and support of AIDS awareness.

Davidson College recently recognized World AIDS Day. World AIDS Day is annually celebrated on December 1.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

NEWS
Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDLISH
MELISSA ANN GREGORY

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
PETER CLARK

Business Manager
JAKE HARRINGTON

Photographer
PETER CLARK

ARTS & LIVING
Senior Editor
SETH DAVIS

SPORTS
Senior Editors
BEN COVINGTON
MIKE ANDERSON

Photographers
CADER HOWARD
BURGIN HARDIN
JESSIE BOGO

Ad Designers
ADAM SOTO
CINDY CLARK

Circulation Managers
ANNA JUDY
INA SPECHAR

Head Copy Editors
CADER HOWARD
DEREK KVERNO

Layout Editors
IRENE MIDDLETON
DAN WINGATE

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Union.

Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.