By SARAH OGDEN, Editor Emerita

Last Tuesday, Ann Harriot Fisher ’99 and Chris Tuttle ’99 ended their term as Student Government Association president and vice
president, respectively. Under the Fisher/Tuttle administration, the SGA has worked to improve the Union Cafe, enhance trustee-student communications, help revise
the sexual misconduct code, expedite the switch to the OneCard system, address student concerns after the so-called “flier incident” with
a forum on race, and form the Lights Out Committee, which fought to keep Chambers open and negotiated the compromise
of a 24-hour accessible Union. These are just a few of the past year’s achievements.

At the close of Tuesday’s meeting, Fisher and Tuttle commented briefly on their term in office. Tuttle spoke first, thanking
the senators for their hard work, a sentiment later echoed by Fisher in her address. “I want to challenge you
to keep involved,” Tuttle concluded. In her address, Fisher said that the SGA has “changed this institution for the better,”
citing its accomplishments over the past year. Both Fisher and Tuttle said that they were satisfied with their term. “We
can always have done more,” said Tuttle, “but I’m satisfied.” Fisher agreed, saying that she was very satisfied with the
SGA’s small achievements, but “I don’t think anyone can be satisfied with big issues like financial aid.” Tuttle is most
proud of the SGA’s “quick response to the flier and the push to bring racial issues to the forefront of
campus.” Fisher cited the SGA’s success in the celebration of Martin Luther King Day this year and getting other organizations
involved in diversity issues as the SGA’s greatest accomplishment over the past year.

Haselden Continued from page 1

Haselden has been a member of the Student Executive Committee (SEC), a member of the Student Conduct Council, the Chairperson
of the Auxiliary Services Council for two years, and the president of his class for three consecutive years. He is
also currently a Hall Counselor on 1st East Belk. When asked about his experience in SGA, Haselden responded, “It’s helped
me to know the student body, to know the parliamentary procedure, and to know the methods necessary to achieve goals.
It has shown me how to get things done and get tangible results.”

During his term as SGA president, Haselden said that his primary objective is “to work towards answering any questions or
solving any problems that students have. That way we can make Davidson better as a whole, whether that be in
auxiliary services, academic concerns, or questions of diversity.” Haselden plans to respond to student problems and interests, and he emphasized
that he is interested in achieving substantial results. For example, he hopes to pursue any resolution that has been approved
by the SGA Senate. “In previous semesters, the SGA has passed several resolutions that are sent to the faculty or
administration,” he said. “Yet, the SGA must push and persuade the proper authorities to recognize and respond to these requests
for changes. Just passing a resolution is not enough; it must be seen to completion.”

Haselden’s reasons for running for SGA president stemmed from his interaction with others at Davidson and his devotion to the
College. “I’ve always gotten the idea or motivation to do something because one of my friends had a problem,” he
said. “I think that’s what SGA and representative government is all about. SGA is a service because you’re elected by
your friends to do what they ask of you.” He later continued by saying, “Davidson has given me so much.
Ever since I got here as a freshman, I felt so fortunate to come here. Serving on the SGA and
trying to help my friends and help my school is a way to give back to Davidson.”

THE DAVIDSONIANand the SGA meeting the night before the forum (according to Tuttle). Fisher and Tuttle cite their “outstanding help”
as one of the keys to the success of their term.

“I was really afraid there was going to be a lot of anger (at the SGA meeting),” said Tuttle, who
now believes he “underestimated the students.” Fisher and Tuttle cite their “outstanding help” as one of the keys to the
success of their term. According to Fisher, she and Tuttle were able to rely on “some excellent senators,” including newly
elected SGA president Foster Haselden ’00 of the Auxiliary Services Committee; Rives Moore ’99 of the Trustee Committee; Travis Barton
’00 and Lindsey Vagt ’01, who handled the Vamanos Van; and Laura McDonnell ’01 of the Elections Committee.

Another aid to their successful term was that “it was more of a partnership (between Tuttle and I),” said Fisher.
At the same time, she would do differently, Tuttle reiterated, “I can always do more. But when stuff came at
us, I think we reacted pretty well.”

“I think we were pretty proactive,” added Fisher. Tuttle said that this term has made him realize that “radical” events
are fun and get people involved, but the SGA must also “find a balance between working with the administration and
not being afraid to butt heads.”

The student body at large also has a responsibility to the SGA, which Fisher said can be demonstrated by signing
up for committees, attending SGA meetings, keeping up with SGA activities, and voicing opinions to senators. Tuttle added that students
should approach SGA representatives with not only problems but also possible solutions.

As for the coming year, Fisher and Tuttle have great faith in the experience and enthusiasm of Haselden and vice
president-elect Dane Erickson ’01. Tuttle commented that both students are very active on campus and have been responsive to their
constituents in the past. “I am so confident in Foster and Dane,” agreed Fisher, who expects that the SGA will
continue to address the issue of diversity and the non-discrimination clause, as well as “come up with ideas that we
never even thought of.”

After a year of serving their school, former president, Ann Harriot Fisher ’99, and former vice president, Chris Tuttle ’99,
will pass the responsibility to Haselden and Erickson. Commenting on the upcoming transition, Haselden said, “I’m hoping it will go
fairly smoothly. I've been close with the last three SGA presidents. I’ve seen how they handle the transition, and Dane
has seen that too. Since we’ve both been class presidents, we hopefully know how to move to the next step.”

Haselden is also optimistic about cooperating with Erickson throughout his term. “I think we'll work well together. We've been on
SGA together for two years and have become good friends. I think the experiences we’ve shared together on SGA will
help us in the future.”

In conclusion, Haselden expressed his enthusiasm for his new position. “I’m really excited about serving as SGA president,” he said.
Haselden and Erickson will hold their new positions for the duration of 1999.

“Building a skills foundation for future leadership at Davidson and beyond.”

A seven-week program for freshman and sophomore students.

January 25 - Applications available in RLO
January 28 - Information Session @ 5:00 pm, 900 Room
February 5 - Applications due

Apply early as spaces are limited. Contact Everett Painter in RLO @ 892-2188 for more information.
