THE DAVIDSONIAN

LETTERS

Guru on life

To the Editors:

“Make voyages. Attempt them. There is nothing else.” - Tennessee Williams

Jump. Do it. Take a leap off of a high cliff into a body of water with which you are unfamiliar. Rock and roll. Don’t stop. When you stop, your spirit and soul shrink. Live for the rush. The butterflies in your stomach and the shakiness in your knees, I love it. Where will you be next year at this time? You may not know. Don’t fret. Things have a way of working themselves out, especially when you follow your heart instead of your head. Do something that you will never be able to do again. Start a rock band, become an artist, or join a traveling circus. Don’t conform just yet. Unlike your youth, law schools, med schools, First Union and Andersen Consulting will all be around for a while. It’s not a race. It’s a journey that is to be enjoyed every day. Believe in yourself and pursue your dreams with reckless passion. You don’t want to be sitting in an office when you’re 50 years old and say to yourself, “I wish I would have given Hollywood a shot.” Regret kicks everyone in the ass. Don’t let it. Smile often and don’t forget about the girl in the sundress. Although the winter days are upon us, she is still out there. She has probably retired the sundress until the warm weather and flowers return in the spring. She may be wearing black pants and a gray sweater now.

Maxwell Nelson ‘99

The value of the honor code

Dear Campus Community,

Just a quick word on an unfortunate situation... The Honor Code is one of the most valuable aspects of our campus. Unlocked doors and unsecured personal items are true and tangible benefits of coming into a school and community like Davidson. The trick is that such freedom and peace of mind only survive when everyone lives up to certain obligations. Recently, however, it seems that certain students have been taking liberties with the freedom that such responsibility gives us. In particular, numerous items have been stolen from the kitchen in Basement Cannon so far this semester. These include (but are not limited to) nearly a full set of silverware (4 knives, 3 forks, 3 spoons), a cooking pot, a cookie sheet, 3 large cutting knives, an entire set of tan measuring cups, a Pyrex mixing bowl, and our favorite spoon which has an ornately engraved handle. Several individuals purchased this equipment, and they would like it back. Combined, the items are valued at an estimated $30. On the bright side, if the items are returned, there will be no need to file a police report for misdemeanor larceny! A reminder: our friendly Code of Responsibility makes it obligatory that anyone who knows about the stolen items also report it. And just as a bonus, I am also offering a reward for information leading to the person that took my spoon. And in closing, if you have borrowed, taken, or used dishes or equipment from the kitchen, please, be a decent fellow (or gal) and wash them.

Thanks for your time.

Michael Gillespie ‘00

Learn a little disrespect

Bridge the language gap

To the Davidson Community:

Attention! Attention! All you premedical students out there that are looking to better your applications with volunteer experience! All you Spanish-speaking students that would like to help out in the local community by taking advantage of a wonderful opportunity to make use of your linguistic skills! Anybody who cares about their fellow human beings on this planet and would like to lend a hand to a good cause! Every Tuesday and Thursday night from six until nine in the evening, the Strong Tower Free Medical Clinic provides medical attention for those in the community without health insurance. This privately funded enterprise presents no tax burden to the local economy while allowing those without sufficient funds the opportunity to finally receive medical care. Many of the patients at this clinic are Mexican immigrants.With limited English abilities. However, many of the doctors and nurses who volunteer their time for this clinic do not speak Spanish. Therefore, volunteers are needed to bridge the language gap between patient and physician to ensure proper treatment and provide a beneficial environment. In addition to these hours of service, the clinic conducts a free program of ob/gyn care for women every first and third Wednesday of the month from six until eight in the evening. Volunteers are also needed for these rotations. If you are interested—whether you speak Spanish or are just devoted to public service—please call Melanie Majure at x6679 or Jessalyn Salter at x6813 to sign up and begin giving back to the community. Thank you.

To the Editors:

Davidson students need to learn a little disrespect. We’ve more than shown an agility with rules and the dearth of any fresh activism on campus attests to convention’s oft-kissed ass. Even the primary purpose of our school, as scribbled on the cover of our directory, is “to assist students in developing ‘humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service.” Disciplined? Service? These are no assistance to creativity; they are thin euphemisms for conformity. Of course, I’m twisting the statement’s words, but the idea of indoctrination is undeniably there—indoctrination of what the rich, white, predominantly male Board of Trustees (they’re such an easy target) deems humane.

Even though I just tapped into the bigger problem, namely, the school’s intention of making us “moral” people by the fist of its fascist thug known as the “honor code,” I’m writing this in response to last week’s cover story on the VAC vandalism. When I read about what happened I didn’t shake my head and mutter about the shame brought on Davidson, like I was supposed to. I laughed. That shouldn’t shock you—especially with a line like curator Perry Nesbitt’s “that’s just not what civilized people do” (imagine a stodgy British accent). “Civilized”? What happened in the VAC was funny. Refreshingly impudent. How often do we get any shred of controversy? Nesbitt and the rest of us should be happy that: one, a Davidson student actually pulled himself or herself away from the grind work enough to go to an art exhibit; and two, a Davidson student had the guts and the creativity to try to change anything. Who says mistakes can’t engender art? Why can’t the defaced piece be another piece of art? The mystery vandal is an artist himself or herself, as far as I’m concerned. What a poignant metaphor for the ongoing dialectic of art. What a bold affront to the notion that anything the institution sets before us is sacred and right.

More than likely the vandalism was a product of ignorance—as Nesbitt suspected, that “this person was unaware that this was a work of art”—but why waste the incident? Nesbitt said “let it be an educational opportunity as well as a crime.” So let it. I’m just impressed that one of Davidson’s moral robots dared to do something brave and different, even at the expense of being destructive, stupid, and irreverent. Students here cannot seem to translate their complaints into action. Yeah, yeah... anonymous vandalism is no substitute for an articulated message, but we can at least frame the incident as a starting point. I’m so desperate that I'll champion almost any assault on the ironclad Davidson establishment. And I might as well say it: fight the power.

Christopher Fryar ‘02

To Whom It May Concern:

I hear about a “Gender Resource Center?” It’s a very interesting word. I believe it’s a place where men and women can discuss their differences in an adult manner... to bridge the abyss, not reinforce it. We need help. I can see it! My date school dances all meet on the same night. We need a location, a kind of subject matter, where we can discuss these issues. Where is it? Which is fixed on ESPN? Pan lounge and night!

Nathaniel Lotze