*Panel Discussion on Eating Disorders*

In conjunction with Eating Disorders Awareness Week, Davidson students and health professionals presented a panel on Wednesday, February 24th, entitled “Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Eating Problems but Didn’t Know Who to Ask.” Davidson College health educator Georgia Ringle, the Student Counseling Center’s Dr. DeWitt Crosby, and Elisabeth Malphurs ’99 were all instrumental in planning the program. A predominantly female audience attended the question and answer formatted discussion, although a few men were present. The program was sponsored by the Women’s Issues Committee, Student Health Leaders, and Patterson Court and answered questions ranging from how to recognize eating disorders and treat them to how to help friends who might have an eating problem. The audience wrote questions down on flashcards for the panel to answer.

Eating disorder survivors Elizabeth Brantley ’01, Beth Dederick ’01, and Chris Knox ’96 sat on the panel, as well as Laura Barrett, a behavioral therapist, the Davidson College dietician Andrea Adams, and a local family physician. Dederick opened the discussion by reading a poem she had written about her private battle with anorexia. Then the program’s moderator, Brenna Tindall ’01, began to read the questions for the panel to answer. Knox, who is the Assistant Director of Davidson's Annual Fund, said it is easy to believe a friend with an eating disorder, but that it “is important to test your judgment over theirs. They can convince the people around them they are fine when they really aren’t.” Brantley added that one’s “concern and care for a friend with an eating problem can have more impact than judgment and confrontation.” Dederick commented, “Eating disorders aren’t just about bingeing/purging and depravity of food. A body image issue often underlies these behaviors.”

*Dean Selected*

Continued from previous page

He has a longstanding involvement with national testing of economics students through the Educational Testing Service/College Board and is currently chief faculty consultant for the advanced placement economics test, which 30,000 high school students take annually. His duties include formulating the test questions, developing grading standards, and working with about 100 high school and college teachers to grade the completed tests. In 1993, he and departmental colleague Peter Hess published *Principles of Economics: An Analytical Approach*, which they categorize as “a thinking student’s introductory textbook.” It departed from the prevailing trend of encyclopedic texts, replete with boxed inserts and multicolored graphics, by focusing on economic reasoning and the relevance of economic theories. In 1997, they again collaborated to publish *Economic Development: Theories, Evidence and Policies*, a textbook for economic development courses.

Ross also has a special interest in West Africa and traveled to the area more than 20 times as a consultant on agricultural production and the effectiveness of foreign aid in the region for the Department of Agriculture, the US Agency for International Development, and Club du Sahel of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That work included the development of a computer program with former student Hunter Monroe, Davidson’s 20th Rhodes Scholar, that suggested solutions and strategies for reducing food deficits in the region. Ross received his bachelor’s degree from the University of Pennsylvania and earned his Ph.D. in economics from Boston College in 1976. He taught for a year at the College of William and Mary and was a research scientist at the University of Michigan Center for Research on Economic Development from 1976-79 before coming to Davidson.Disorder is the larger truth. There’s the obsessive-compulsive calorie counter or the person who weighs themselves compulsively. These disorders aren’t just about eating, but are really body image disorders.” Dederick also emphasized that “every person’s struggle with eating disorders is very different and personal. People don’t apply to the textbook examples only.” Barrett added, “The defining trait with eating problems is a negative mind. All the emotions inside and body image concerns affect the mind negatively. These patients spend all day fighting a civil war between the positive and negative part of the mind. It’s what perpetuates these disorders and it’s a downward spiral.”

“It’s hard to tell who has an eating disorder,” Brantley explained. “So much of the disease is the internal battle. I felt like I had a four-year-old ruling my mind because my self-worth was lowered whenever I ate something ‘bad.’ My biggest fight was to get the 16 to 17-year-old back in control of my body.” Brantley also described the role of friends in her recovery. “Friends that gave me space helped more,” she said, “friends who focused on me and not my disorder.”

Dederick has been on both sides of the spectrum with eating disorders, so she especially empathized with those trying to help friends with disorders. She described a “tendency to be angry with the friend as you watch them kill themselves. That is an understandable, just emotion because it is a horrendous thing and frightening to watch a friend do to themselves.” She added, “The most important thing is to tell the friend that you love them and that you are there for them no matter what.”

The importance of good eating habits was also discussed by the panel. Knox stressed the importance of the food intake issue, saying that anorexic and bulimic patients should “keep a food diary, with the assistance of a nutritionist. You figure out that you can consume a normal amount of calories and still not gain weight.” Adams also said, “There are two aspects to treatment. It’s like the expression: it’s not what you are eating, but what is eating you. There is both a nutritional and therapy side to treatment. Without the therapy, dietary treatment isn’t as successful.”

At the conclusion of the discussion, Knox made a final point that eating disorder victims should be given “continued, consistent support, even after therapy has ended.” She said, “Once I wasn’t in danger of dying, people stopped calling. They thought because I was seemingly back to normal, that I was fine. That hurt me. I wanted to know that I didn’t have to be sick to be cared about. That I didn’t have to have a problem to gain attention.”

The professionals on the panel gave out their phone numbers at the program’s end so they could be contacted with further questions related to eating disorders. Andrea Adams has her office in Vail Commons and can be reached at x2831. Laura Barrett is with the Center for Behavioral Medicine at 366-7026. She also recommended a publication, Gurze, which will send ten free catalogs if contacted at (800) 756-7533. Chris Knox was also eager to receive calls here at Davidson, in the Glasgow House, at x2831. The Student Counseling Center, at x2451, is also always a resource when confronting the issue of eating disorders.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
ASHLEY E. KING

News Editors
CARRIE ARTHUR
SCOTT REEDER

Op-Ed Editors
SETH ALLEY
MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

Sports Editors
EUGENIA LEATH
MIKE ANDERSON

Arts & Living Editors
ALISON KALETT
PETER CLARK

Photo Editor
CADER HOWARD

Head Copy Editors
ANNA JUDY
WHITNEY BLAKE

Web Editor
PETER MARTIN

Cartoonist
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Business Manager
ALLISON SISK

Circulation Manager
NATHANIEL LOTZE

Advertising Managers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Founded in 1914
“The V.A.C’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.