By Kerry SuGRuE
Staff Writer

Now at the halfway mark of Southern Conference play, the Davidson Women’s Volleyball team has emerged just where it started—at the top. After one full round of Southern Conference competition, the ’Cats headed into this past weekend’s pivotal conference matches boasting a remarkable 11-0 conference record (18-2 overall). And while the ’Cats do sit atop the Southern Conference, No. 2 Chattanooga is on their heels and refuses to yield an inch.

While the ’Cats have held strong to the No. 1 spot, it is by no means an easy ride through the rest of the season. “We are the hunted,” said Head Coach Lisa Marston. “The other teams are all gunning for us now, and we are the team to beat. Even mediocre teams will be amazing when they face us, because they know they will have to step up their play.”

The ’Cats continue to make history this season, as they currently hold a No. 7 ranking in their district (up from No. 8 in the first round of ranking), which is composed of the Southern, Southeastern, and TransAmerican conferences. There are eight districts in the country, with Davidson’s district home to such national powerhouses as Florida, which is also ranked fourth nationally. Seventh is the highest ranking ever achieved by a Southern Conference team, making the ’Cats accomplishments that much more impressive.

The ’Cats are coming off of what may have been the most important weekend of their season. They swept No. 2 Chattanooga and No. 3 Western Carolina in back-to-back Friday and Saturday night games, respectively. The ’Cats soundly beat both teams earlier in the season also. “Even though we beat both teams before, we are expecting to face heated battles this weekend,” Marston commented in the days leading up to the pivotal contests.

The ’Cats faced both teams at home in the first round of play, but heading into the weekend Head Coach Lisa Marston knew the team would have to step up to their opponent’s home court advantage this time: “Being away will be tough, because it is always different to face a team when you aren’t playing in front of your crowd. If we can win both of these games, we’ll be in very good shape,” said Coach Marston last week.

The win over Chattanooga this past Friday marked the first time since 1994 the ’Cats have swept the two-game series. It also dropped second-place Chattanooga 2 games behind Davidson in the Southern Conference standings. The ’Cats (20-2, 13-0) face Radford, the College of Charleston, and The Citadel on the road next week and return to home play Nov. 2 to face UNC Greensboro at 7:00 in Belk Arena.

’Cats prowl the links again
By Dave Moncurt
Staff Writer

The Wildcat golf team traveled to Radford University to compete in the Radford Invitational at Draper Valley Country Club Oct. 17-18. In just their third tournament of the year, the Wildcats surged to a finish in the top fifty percent of the field. In perhaps their toughest test so far this season, head coach Joe Mark guided the Wildcats through an incredibly fierce field of competitors, which included last year’s tournament champion, Elon. The Wildcats’ overall two-day team score of 598 left them only 10 strokes behind the third place team.

Sophomore Oliver Cross led Davidson with a final score of 145 after two rounds of play. He placed ninth among the individual competition scores, giving him 2 top ten finishes in the team’s first 3 tournaments. Cross finished second in the Presbyterian Invitational, the ’Cats second tournament of the year, with a stellar 2-under-par. As Coach Mark said, Cross is one of the early leaders on this young team. With a few more tournaments under his belt, he will be a consistent contender for one of the top individual spots in the conference.

Two other emerging team leaders are freshmen Frank Walker and Ben Friedell. They finished with final scores of 150 and 152, respectively. The Wildcats are very optimistic about theOld Dominion/Seascape Invitational in Nags Head Oct. 24-26, where they hope to continue improving on their consistent play. The ’Cats will also be hosting the Davidson College Invitational at Birkdale from Oct. 31-Nov. 2.

This isn’t the first time in his 20-year tenure that Coach Charlie Slagle (far right) has held an impromptu sideline meeting to discuss strategy with his players.

Breaking News... Davidson Field Hockey defeated Virginia Commonwealth 4-1 late Sunday afternoon to conclude their season. The Wildcats finished the year with a 9-6 record and now move on to the Deep South FHA Tournament Oct. 29-31 at Catawba College, Salisbury, N.C.

Special Thanks... To Florence, S.C., artist Jerry Ayers for his time and talent. He created the drawing of our very own Coach Slagle that appears on the back page.

SPORTS

Wildcat volleyball notches 20th win of breakout season

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1999

Now 11-0 in Southern Conference play, Head Volleyball Coach Lisa Marston (center) says her ’Cats are now “the hunted.”

Men’s soccer drops two at home

From Press Releases Davidson S.I.D.

The 49ers of UNC Charlotte used a strong counterattack to defeat Davidson College 4-2 in men’s soccer action Wednesday night at Richardson Stadium. The game, which was played in a steady rainfall, was the 25th meeting between the two schools.

Chris Norbet got the ’Cats on the board first with a goal at the 7:18 mark of the first half. Norbet put a throw-in from Patrick Miller into the back of the net for his eighth goal of the season. Davidson had its chance for an early two-goal lead, but Andrew Holbrook’s shot bounced off the top of the goal.

UNCC answered back in the 16th minute when Juan Munoz-Airey launched a shot into the goal off a cross from the left by Matt Bradner. The 49ers took the lead at the 25:18 mark on a goal by Jamath Shoffner. Stephen Miller was credited with the assist. The teams headed to the locker room with UNC Charlotte ahead 2-1.

UNCC’s Stephen Pugliese put the team’s third goal of the game in the net at the 64:08 mark off a pass from Munoz-Airey to give the 49ers a 3-1 advantage. Davidson’s second goal came in the 68th minute. Dan Ford carried the ball up the left side of the field and put a ball in the box to Ikenna Myers. After Myers received the pass, he put the ball to Holbrook who put the ball past UNCC’s Reggie Session for the goal.

The Wildcats pushed forward in the final 10 minutes of action that resulted in many offensive opportunities; however, none proved to be fruitful. C.J. Robinson scored the game’s final goal with just two seconds left. He slipped past a Wildcat defender at midfield and launched the ball into an open net.

The Wildcats were at home again last Friday night, hosting Furman, but a lone goal by the Paladins’ John Barry Nusum sealed Davidson’s 1-0 Southern Conference loss. The lone goal was set up by midfielder Paul Leese. He carried the ball down the left side of the field and sent a pass across to Vaughan Bethell at the top of the penalty box. Bethell sent the ball into the box where Nusum headed the ball into the goal over the outstretched hands of Davidson’s Soren Johnson.

Davidson played a strong game, losing for the first time this season to a top 10 team. The Paladins outshot the Wildcats 5-3, but the ’Cats held the edge in corner kicks 8-7. “We played very well against a good team,” said Head Coach Charlie Slagle. “They converted their chances, and we didn’t. They deserved this victory.”

Davidson falls to 7-10 overall and 4-3 in the Southern Conference, while the victory improves Furman to 12-1-1 overall and 6-0 in conference play. The ’Cats are off until Saturday, Oct. 30 when they travel to Richmond, Va. to play the University of Richmond before closing out the regular season with Wofford at home Nov. 1. Furman hosts VMI Sunday afternoon at 2:00.

The Wildcats managed a single goal against UNCC.