THE DAVIDSONIAN

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

In response to Jeremiah Parvin’s “One athlete's opinion” 11/16/99

I'm going to come out and say something potentially shocking: I think that Dr. Denham actually has a valid point. I will go so far as to say that I believe that others agree with him as well, but most of them are probably hesitant to make a statement in support of him. I know of at least one person who left Davidson because the perpetuation of the culture that Dr. Denham is protesting against left her disillusioned with the school and, more importantly to her, unable to do the kind of service work she felt she needed to be doing. In losing this individual, Davidson lost the most compassionate, thinking, giving person I think I’ve ever had the privilege to know, and that is a shame.

I myself am not so thrilled with what the view books and other college publications told me I would find and what I did in fact find here at Davidson. Yes, I have found the intensive, yet worthwhile, education that I expected. But I also found something that drove me up the wall throughout my entire high school career: excessive expenditure on athletics. Admittedly, the issue in high school was different: the arts were poorly funded because of the preference given to athletics, which was upsetting. The issue here at Davidson is equally disturbing, if not more so. I mean, at least public high school was free.

The idea here is that all who are admitted are equally qualified to go to school here, and I don’t think it’s so ridiculous to say, “Okay, you can play basketball (or football, or baseball, or whatever) well, and that’s a very good thing. You will be an asset to our team (whatever division we play in). We cannot give you a full scholarship for this skill, but we will assist you. Your need is ‘x’, and you will receive aid to cover that. Enjoy your education at Davidson.” Making this statement rather than, “Here’s your $28,000, go play ball” would allow Davidson to make the former statement (give or take the sports bit) to a great many more people. And perhaps this would facilitate furthering the goal of diversity that we all talk about so much.

It’s not that sports aren't important; the point that is screaming to be heard here is that we spend far more money on athletics than is justified. Davidson was not sold to me, or to a great many other people, as a school with highly competitive Division I sports teams. I chose Davidson because it was pitched to me as a small community of intelligent people, some of whom were athletic, some of whom were not. Some of these people, I was told, will drink a lot, but that’s college. Some of these people will, despite their intelligence, be mean and shallow, but some of them will still be worth knowing. Some will be rich, some will not have so much money, but all will be of fairly equal intelligence. At Davidson one isn’t being unrealistic to assume everyone here will not only be equally intelligent, but of generally above average intelligence.

Keeping this in mind, I think it is a shame that our campus thrives on the “unimaginative feat of drinking oneself ill,” to quote Dr. Denham. (Yes, the drinking issue was also addressed in that fateful article... which is possibly of as much importance as the athletics issue... or do we just not want to think about that messy little detail?)

My family pays my entire tuition. It’s not easy, but we do it. My parents make sacrifices to send me here. My yearly trip to Davidson is a gift. Attending this school, or another one very similar to it, was not considered the natural progression of my education; it was a dream. I do not dare take any of it for granted, not for one second. However, if my family has to work to send me here, at least they’re not working against the same odds as other families are. I am, mercifully, an only child and they don’t have to worry about sending someone else on in three or four years. They are not so badly off that I have to take out massive loans in order to attend. In all probability, I will be debt-free when I leave here in 2002.

But I am lucky. Those students that are “gapped” are the ones with the loans, and those loans come with interest rates. I cannot begin to imagine having to overcome such financial obstacles. How many bright, eager, and qualified students have turned away from Davidson and gone instead to a similar institution that covers the entirety of their need? How many unique human beings have we collectively missed out on because they simply could not afford the education for which they were qualified? It’s something to think about every time you look out across a lecture hall or Commons and view our largely homogeneous population. It is a shame that our campus has such economic diversity that new BMWs are more common than old, beat-up, but reliable vehicles. It is a shame that our reverence for Division I sports tends to, on the whole, work against bringing students here who would appreciate the education more than the beer and cherish the opportunity to be here like some people cherish their cars.

Now then, one final thought: think before you react. Consider with care the opinions and views of those that the College we pay so dearly to attend has deemed worthy to speak to us (i.e., that population of generally intelligent people they call “professors”). Attempt not to view everything as a personal attack on YOUR way of life, but possibly as a useful critique of society. THINK every now and then... and then respond. That is, after all, what we're paying to learn how to do.

Nikki Thomas ’02

On the revival of COED eating houses

Dear Friends:

I was in town to research an article on the history of WDAV as a student radio station when I saw your front-page article on “co-ed eating houses”. I was a student in the pre-Reagan days when co-ed houses were at their peak, and ate at ATO (Animals Together Outrageously; Apple Turn Over; Altruism Through Overindulgence; but not Alpha Tau Omega, since the charter had been revoked long before I got there). Each house had its own character: PAX was the quiet place; Emanon, the home of high-minded liberals and future theologians; ATO was the “Animal House”, refuge for misfits and misanthropes, and sworn enemy of conformity and all things SAE. (It is absolutely untrue that I rode my motorcycle into the living room during “Weirdness Night”, and anyone who says so, including me, is a liar. The handlebars wouldn't fit through the door.)

For a few hundred of us in the 70s and early 80s, our co-ed eating house was THE center of our social lives, and the place where our longest-lasting friendships were made. It ranks right up there with Humanities and my midnight-to-two Saturday night radio shift as one of the features that made the Davidson experience for me. I have nothing against single-gender, single-race or single-frat houses for others, but I wish you knew what you were missing without at least two or three co-ed eating houses.

Sid Barrett ’79

PS To the two WALT freshmen I barged in on last Monday night... got your signal loud and clear all the way to Huntersville. Great tunes.Guys! Rock on!

EDITORIALS/OPINIONS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

Denhamania

Monday, November 22, 1999, 12:09 a.m.: With apologies to certain factions of the Political Science department for using first person, I am melting up here in the Davidsonian office, located in the Second Mezzanine of the Grey College Union. It is at least 90 degrees Fahrenheit in this room, probably hotter. I heard plenty of people complain about the heat in the Union today, but the first floor feels like a hockey rink compared to this Hades facsimile. If you are reading this, and you know how to fix the heat pump or the thermostat or the boiler or whatever is causing this Union inferno, please do something.

I had originally intended to throw my hat into the ring of what has become the latest and greatest campus craze. It’s bigger than Pokémania — it’s the opportunity to take on Davidson German professor Scott Denham in a journalism chess match within the pages of The Davidsonian or Libertas. Several Davidson students have become active participants in this battle of wits, and their opinions can be read in both this issue of the Davidsonian, last week’s issue of the Davidsonian, and last week’s Libertas. I set out to read all of the student responses that have been either received or published to date. Maybe I can’t stand the heat (no pun intended — really), but I found these mammothian replies too much to wade through and absorb for the purposes of composing a simple reply. The last thing that either student publication needs is yet another article criticizing Dr. Denham for his informed commentary on meaningful campus issues. I know that many students have fantasized about writing an angry reply, only to discover that a lot of what Dr. Denham had to say made a lot of sense. Upsetting, isn’t it?

I’ve seen the following thought process manifested by more than a few students thus far: “Dr. Denham criticized [choose one: Division I athletics / single-sex Patterson Court organizations]... I’m a [choose one: participant in Division I athletics / member of a single-sex Patterson Court organization]. But since I go to Davidson and I’m smart, there must not be anything objectionable about my Division I sports team / single-sex Patterson Court organization (I wouldn’t have joined my team and/or frat otherwise)... He is, therefore, wrong.” Brilliant.

Let me tell you something about Davidson faculty members. They are, on the whole, reasonably intelligent people — even compared to Coastal Carolina College faculty members. They may hold different opinions from some students, but chances are that when a professor speaks his mind, what comes out is unlikely to be complete drivel. The lack of thoughtful consideration that student dissenters have given Dr. Denham’s claims sincerely amuses me — almost as much as some of their petulant responses have. Keep ’em coming, though, if you like. I’m always up for a laugh.

Weather: It’s a break!

Run out of time? Not enough hours in the day? Hey, just thought I would remind all of you happy campers that there is a break this week. But the real question, what kind will it be? Anyway you have it, have a great and productive time! (And just to enlighten, or frighten some, there are only 24 days till you are able to run home for the month-long holiday season. This does include exam days!) Just a little note!

OPINIONS

The Venerable Vail...

Thus far I have refrained from writing about the Commons. Why have I done this? Call it professional courtesy, or perhaps pity. Maybe it is simply that to write about Vail would be too easy to mock and undermine such a mediocre institution. But, I have not. What has led me to change my stance on the Commons? Napkins. Yes, Napkins.

As you, my loyal readers, have undoubtedly noticed, the Davidson napkins have disappeared from the Commons in the last week and a half. At first, I was surprised and mildly intrigued. Then I became disturbed as the Davidson napkins did not come back after 2 days, 3, 4, (I didn’t go to the Commons on day 5), 6, 7... and now it has been 9 days. Count ‘em, 9 days, since the Davidson napkins were “disappeared.”

Some of you may ask why I am taking precious time out of my busy day to write about such a seemingly inane issue. It is not inane. First of all, let’s examine the new napkins. They do not say “Davidson” on them; in fact, they say nothing. Also absent is the little recycling symbol on the back of the napkin. Now, considering the number of trees I have killed printing out the numerous drafts of my public policy paper (and the drafts are still coming, Prof. Menkhaus), I really am not the one to lecture on recycling. But it is a nice concept. It also makes you feel better when you are eating the extremely second-rate “Sloppy Joes.” To continue, the new napkins are not nearly as soft to the touch as the former napkins. They are obviously made of an inferior paper product. Example: the Davidson napkins are, say, oak, and the new napkins are made of, say, plywood. This is not good (especially considering my fair complexion and fancy for “Sloppy Joes”).

There is a prospective on the hall tonight, and I know that we are going to have to take him down to Vail tomorrow and he will see and feel and use the second-rate napkins. O, the shame that I will feel as he vainly tries to blow his nose and his skin is torn off. I can see him falling back in his chair screaming and clutching his now-scarred nose. “Why me!?” I scream “Nooo000000!” But it is too late. The damage has been done.

Surely the administration realized these possibilities when they decided to discontinue the Davidson napkins. How could they ignore the prospect of a bleeding prospective? Like everything else in this world, it all comes down to the almighty dollar. Have you seen the new condiment bar? Well, how do you suppose they paid for it? I had originally thought that they collected the extra money for the ketchup on tap by cooking all the pizzas for one minute less each. The money they would have saved per pizza through using less electricity would then be spent so that the student body could get mayonnaise on demand. Does it bother anyone else that mayonnaise is coming out of a tap? It reminds me of the Simpsons episode when the Krusty Burger worker says “we're out of special sauce... put this mayonnaise in the sun.”

But none of this changes the fact that I do not like okra... or I mean the napkins. Of course, I could go into the uncooked pizzas (oh, wait, I have) or that the waffles stick to the non-stick waffle irons, or I could even mention that they serve hamburgers one night, then meatloaf, then the aforementioned “Sloppy Joes,” and I could go on and on. But I won't, because I have to get a Kleenex. My nose is bleeding...

Note: The prospective did not need a blood transfusion, but he got one anyway, because a resident who had been working for 30 hours straight was treating him. Also, after this article was written, it was brought to the attention of Andrew that the napkins were a grievous error on the part of the ordering guy and that the Davidson napkins shall soon return to the Commons.

Andrew MacDonald ’03.