THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1999

Crispy. I sit here again, not quite as late as usual, but late enough to say that my brain feels
as crispy as this fish fillet. I know I should be contemplating the deeper issues surrounding us at the moment,
but it appears that all the topics that I think about seem fairly well bled dry. Cloning, is it an
ethical choice? Hmmm! Clinton, what about him has not been publicized, photographed, examined, scrutinized...? Instead, I decided to forego the
normal route of the editorial and give to you something much more poignant and meaningful. Yes, I feel that this
picture says exactly what I feel. No, I am not saying that I feel like a processed, breaded piece of
fish (even if I am slightly fried at the moment). What I am saying is that we should be as
happy as this man in his choice, even if he does appear slightly catatonic!

The Creative Illustration Book 1991; Berstein & Andriulli Inc: Craig Nelson.

Is Davidson weird? (We’re tackling the truly hard-hitting issues this week at The Davidsonian. I’ve abstained from making the bulk
of my editorial a photo of a swarthy, grinning senior citizen bearing Mrs. Paul’s crispy (and crunchy) fish fillets, but
I can’t fault John for doing exactly that. There’s just not as much controversy pervading the campus as there used
to be for us to have opinions about. Maybe what we really need is another Gist trial... sometimes it feels
that way.)

Like most Davidson students, I was on hand Saturday night in Belk Arena to witness what was very nearly an
upset of the College of Charleston Cougars. At the end of the game, I stood positively bewildered. “How is it
that we led by like 15 points almost the entire game and still managed to lose?” I asked an impartial
spectator. “Because Davidson is weird.”

After having spent just over 24 hours visiting Davidson’s alien campus, this had become the Lander University (Greenwood, SC) senior’s
verdict and explanation for everything strange and indeterminable about this school. Fortunately, he offered an elaborate justification of his opinion.

First of all, eating houses. What are those things?
1.) Why do they exist here and barely anywhere else?
2.) On weekends, why do some have X-Files parties and cheer loudly in the center of the dance floor at
midnight?
3.) The mere fact that the eating house concept doesn’t strike us as weird is weird in itself.

Also, nearly everyone that he met was from at least 8 hours from Davidson (the list included Colorado, Arizona, Florida,
California, Pennsylvania, and Pakistan, among others). That was weird. Seemed like almost no one but me was from North or
South Carolina. He also pointed out that only at Davidson would some random student enter your dorm room and spend
over 3 hours rearranging your furniture all by himself without being asked to do so. It was then that I
finally started to see what Mark was talking about.

We also never eat in Davidson. We have to drive to a completely different town if we feel like going
anywhere that’s not weird. Davidson’s only supermarket? It’s weird too. The Tom Clark Museum? Weird. Other evidence included a lack
of highly proficient guitarists (not guitarists, just highly proficient ones), that we have one fraternity off campus (lack of uniformity
= weird), and that our past two elected SGA presidents are both graduates of his same high school (Dreher H.S.,
Columbia, SC).

So what’s wrong with being in a small town or having a geographically diverse student body? Nothing, but I guess
it still doesn’t mean we’re not weird. The whole question of our weirdness got me thinking — who can make
the most accurate assessment of what our school...is like? Seems like we should be able to; after all, we’re the
ones who spend 8 months per year around here. But we lack the outsider’s perspective. Perhaps we are only judged
accurately when judged externally. As for whether or not Davidson is weird, I can’t very well answer that question. But
your friends would stand a better shot.

Lerens @ Mardi Gras Masquerade

To the editors:

In response to the enthusiastic article by Anne Stancil concerning the Campus-Wide Formal, I would like to elaborate. This event
will allow a unique environment in which “the entire student body may celebrate together independently of houses and other organizations,”
as Anne mentioned. As much as I appreciate her support of a “Sober Social Event,” the event actually will offer
alcohol to valid twenty-one year-olds. It will offer a more controlled atmosphere similar to that of programs in the 900
Room. Further, the event plans to offer both a Swing band and DJ to dance the night away. A grand
tent on Richardson Plaza (between the library and Chambers) will house the band. The Plaza will be decorated in the
style of Mardi Gras, with lights and beads. Inside Chambers Gallery, you’ll find a DJ’s alternative dance tunes, an elegant
Cajun-style buffet with assorted finger foods and, of course, traditional King Cake. Along with the buffet will be a cash
bar. Additionally, some serendipitous activities are in the works to complement and enhance the atmosphere of the event.

Mardi Gras Masquerade... Who takes who? Does the guy ask, or the girl? Can you go solo? What do you
wear—a formal, a costume, a semiformal??? The great thing about this event is that it’s YOUR event. Do what you
want. Go single, grab a date, or go in a group. Wear a costume or a formal; just wear something.

Last, the plans are still in progress. We invite any suggestions and help that you may have for the success
of the event. Contact me at x6726 or email, thsayers@davidson.edu.

Thanks,
Thirza Sayers
Union Social Vice President

Overwhelming thanks

To the Davidson students, staff, & faculty:

On behalf of the Davidson Athletic department we wanted to take the time to thank the entire Davidson community for
their overwhelming support this past Saturday night. To look up from the floor and see the entire student section and
the entire staff & faculty section full was memorable. Earlier in the week a flyer was placed around campus that
said that Belk Arena would shake if everyone showed up at the game... IT DID! For those of you who
have been Davidson basketball fans for a long time, we hope that Saturday night affirmed that Belk Arena is a
place that can create a great college basketball environment. And for those of you who attended a Davidson basketball game
for the first time, we hope you enjoyed yourself enough to become a regular at our basketball games. If the
energy and noise that was present Saturday night can spill over to our remaining three home games this year, Belk
Arena will certainly become an arena that all opponents fear.

Our upcoming home schedule is as follows:
2/3 - 7:30 PM - Furman University
2/6 - 7:30 PM - UNCG
2/13 - 7:30 PM - Senior Night/Hall of Fame Night - East Tennessee State U.
*2/25 - 2/28 - Southern Conference Tournament in Greensboro, NC

Please continue to be the 6th Man and if your schedule permits, come early to the game. The support we
had during pre-game was outstanding and we hope the early arrivals continue.

Thank you once again.

Sincerely,
Bob McKillop
Head Coach Men’s Basketball

Aubrey Proud
Manager Marketing & Promotions

The Creative Illustration Book 1991; Renard Represents: Wayne McLoughlin, 1991

Alenda Lux Recah oh vieekero
Nathaniel Lotze
