By Brad STEVINSON

Sports Writer

The 1998 season saw Davidson women’s volleyball return to dominance. They ended with a 21-11 record (15-3 in league play),
the most successful season in eight years.

They tied for second place in the Southern Conference, their highest finish ever, and last year’s ten-game winning streak ranks
as the third longest in the program’s history. If all these successes had Southern Conference opponents trembling in fear, a
far scarier proposition awaits them: in '99 the ‘Cats look to be even better...

“It was an extremely exciting season,” said head coach Lisa Marston, “but as a coach I have to look upon
it as the beginning and not the pinnacle.”

In a pre-season poll, Southern Conference coaches ranked Davidson first in the SoCon, and with the ’Cats’ impressive roster, that
prediction might just be a reality come October.

The squad gets two returning 1998 all-conference players in Mara Mordini and Gina Lawrence. Mordini, a junior outside hitter, led
the entire Southern Conference in digs and led the team in kills. Moreover, she was named the Southern Conference player-of-the-week
twice last season, making her the first Davidson volleyball player to earn the honor. Lawrence returns for her last season
with the ‘Cats at right-side hitter.

Her leadership is expected to play a major role in the team’s quest for the Conference championship. Quarterbacking the Davidson
offense will be senior Ginny Quis, who led the team in assists last season, and sophomore Erica Middendorf will anchor
the middle.

“I am proud of our returning squad. They have worked hard to get the program to the top of the
conference and have the determination to keep us there,” Marston said.

The team’s depth will be much improved with the arrival of Kaitlyn Martin, Katie Moreau, Roberta Quis, and Rebecca Teichgraeber,
four freshmen who are expected to vie for playing time with the starters.

“This freshman class is as talented as any class I’ve brought to Davidson,” said Marston. “With 16 players on the
roster, everyone will have to work hard to earn playing time. The freshmen will have just as good a shot
as any of the other 12 players to make an impact right away.”

Such a combination of seasoned veterans and talented newcomers makes this squad deeper than any other in Davidson history.

The ‘Cats begin their season Wednesday night against cross-county rival UNC-Charlotte, in a match that is expected to be tense.
After that, the squad will host UNC-Wilmington and Elon, among other teams, in the Wildcat Classic at Davidson this weekend.

Other big match-ups include Chattanooga (picked second behind the ‘Cats in the SC preseason poll) on September 10th, Furman, UNC-Greensboro,
and Appalachian State.

“My expectations are so high for this year. Our team goals are to win more matches than last year and
to win the Southern Conference Tournament,” Marston said.

With their unprecedented depth, experience, and determination, the team is sure to be title contenders.

FIELD HOCKEY
By Shelley Conroy

CAKE RACE
By David Moncure

MEN’S SOCCER
By Chris Breitenberg

WOMEN’S SOCCER
By Burgin Hardin

FOOTBALL
By Mike Anderson

Page 19

Page 19

Page 18

Page 18

Page 17

VOLLEYBALL

The top-rated ’Cats travel to UNC-Charlotte to take on the Lady 49ers on Wednesday.

GAME TIME: 7:00 PM @ UNC-CHARLOTTE

Senior Ginny Quis is third among Davidson’s all-time assist leaders.

Sports Information Department

With the addition of freshmen Graham and Adam Elmore, the ’Cats football team now counts among its members three sets
of twins, most in the NCAA.
