THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999 Editorials & Letters

Take some time

I am sure you are all aware (and for those of you that don’t, where have you been?) that this Friday after 4, as the Davidson master schedule states, Easter break begins. And with this realization, at least for me, the unconscious numerical countdown in my head suddenly rears its ugly head and becomes a living, breathing entity persistently ticking! Ahhh! I ask myself, “Where has the semester gone? How can it already be Easter break?” The days have not increased in speed, nor have the hours miraculously shortened. Why is it that at this point in the semester I realize how much there is left to do in such a short period of time? Tick, tick, tick, tick, TICK... ahhhhhh!

I find myself excited by the prospect of going home for break, but at the same time I find myself trying to map out all that I have to do in the limited amount of time I have left. Each day of the month suddenly possesses not one, but two numbers. One set of numbers follows the logical progression of the calendrical year, and the other set of numbers decreases to a set termination point of May 6th, EXAMS! I realize that this numerical countdown might not be the healthiest method of viewing things, but it somehow scares me into productivity and gives me hope. I also try to stay sane through involvement in other activities that provide me with breaks from the daily grind of writing and studying. Yet recently I have been noticing a spring trend (maybe this always happens around this time of the year, but I was abroad last Spring semester, and I cannot really recall noticing this freshman year) where people withdraw from the non-Court extracurricular aspects of Davidson, i.e. Union Board clubs, SGA committees, campus publications...

I talked with other people in charge of organizations on campus, and they also have noticed the same phenomenon. Since I am intimately acquainted with the need for student involvement, I know that I can safely say without help from fellow peers, organizations such as the Union Board, SGA, “The Davidsonian,” “Libertas,” “The Toilet Paper” and the countless other clubs and organizations would not exist. I speak for myself as well as my friends who are in charge of other organizations when I say take a break from your studying, ignore that persistent ticking clock, and give a little bit of your time to something that you enjoy doing. Davidson possesses a range of activities, and if we want to continue to have these, we all need to participate, especially at this time of the year. So take some time, leave the library, stop writing and come and participate in the organization or activity of your choice. This little bit of time could become the deciding factor on whether that organization continues to thrive and make a difference or wither slowly and disappear into the night!

Shame on all of you

(Editor's Note: This article, or a version of it, was meant to appear in last week's Davidsonian.)

As March draws to a close, so does the cherished season of gender recognition equivalency known as Women’s Month. For those who are unacquainted with this growing Davidson tradition, Women’s Month is comprised of four weeks set aside each year to celebrate gender issues, gender equality, gender non-traditional careers, gender bonfires, and other gender stuff, complete with an aphrodisiac study break. I should add to my vague and crude definition that it also plays host, most importantly, to the annual forum on rape awareness, a.k.a. “Take Back the Night.”

This year, however, the Women’s Issues Committee (the masterminds behind Women’s Month) sought to recognize a chosen set of twenty-four salient females on Davidson’s campus, as featured in a recently departed display in the Union Gallery (“Skipping Stones: Women at Davidson”). Each member of the select ensemble was recognized with an artsy black-and-white photograph and a short essay portraying her and delineating, in 300 words or less, the virtues upon which her significance was founded. Chances are that if you’re a student living on campus, you saw the display and looked over a few of the photos, and maybe even read a few of the blurbs. I finally chose to read them all, in hopes of discovering how and why those who had “made the cut” were selected for such prominent enshrinement. We know that they were chosen, but by what means? Was it reason or public opinion? Or was it neither? I didn’t vote for them.

An initial survey of the two dozen superlative “Women at Davidson” revealed a seemingly eclectic mix of staff and students. Represented were prominent campus leaders, women who had instituted change, “forces to be reckoned with,” and other simply unique individuals. But upon closer examination of the display, several unnerving consistencies began to eclipse whatever diversity in “the chosen ones” that I had initially found and admired. Many (if not most) of the honored women also served as interviewers of other members of their elite aggregate. Many (if not most) of the honored women either held close ties with the Women’s Issues Committee or Libertas staff or were members of these organizations themselves. I’m not making any indictments quite yet, but...When you put the facts together, the whole thing rather smacks of pretension. Don’t get me wrong — I think most of the honorees deserved some recognition. But I believe that many of them benefitted from being known by the right people, or had their significance dictated as much by their reputation as by their actual selves. I am reminded of something I learned while working at summer camp: Volume does not equal greatness. The amount of noise (the social kind) that one makes at Davidson does not vary directly with one’s impact or importance. It was not who was recognized in the display that bothered me as much as who wasn’t. I guess there were a few women (certain former SGA Presidents, certain former Editors-in-Chief of The Davidsonian) who have held major (MAJOR) on-campus leadership roles who simply weren’t worthy of the Women’s Issues Committee’s recognition. Neither were any (well, okay, one... but just one) varsity athletes. Neither were any musicians. I know they had to draw the line somewhere (we can’t just go honoring all 850 or so), but who knows who else they may have overlooked? Shame on the disregarded for keeping such low profiles! They just weren’t loud enough — either that, or they just don’t rub shoulders with those who can tell who’s really important. So praise be to the Women’s Issues Committee for patting so many of their favorite people on the back. The next time you put “Davidson’s finest students” on display, make sure you do it right.

Flier wars: from burning bras to a Krispy Kreme donut sale

To the editors:

Among the many fliers competing for your attention last week, one displayed a particularly incendiary headline: FREE YOURSELF WITH FIRE. The flier issued an invitation to: “Join us outside Chambers Wednesday night at 8 p.m. Bring anything you find oppressive to your self-esteem. BURN IT!” The proposed bonfire of anything-that-threatens-your-vanities was one of many events organized for Women’s Month. In the spirit of the occasion, the sponsors made no gender distinctions — no mention of bras, pantyhose, or tummy-shapers — just an open provocation to participate in a symbolic communal gesture of self-liberation. Both women and men responded to the call, burning items ranging from shoes to rejection letters.

This week, a flier appeared in response to the bonfire, offering a counter-proposal: Didn’t make it to the bra burning? Well, here’s your chance to make a real contribution — Pika is selling donuts this Tuesday through Friday in the Union for $3 a dozen with all proceeds going to My Sister’s House — a battered women’s shelter in Mooresville. Send a dozen to a friend, lover, or (yikes) professor — or just eat ’em all yourself. Make your contribution to Women’s Month a worthwhile and tasty one.

We should applaud Pika for this fundraising effort and encourage them to continue supporting Women’s Month. But their humorous promotion of the event merits some (yikes!) serious consideration. Pika’s flier converts an open, community event into a parody of a 1970s bra burning, entrenching the gender lines that the sponsors of the bonfire had attempted to overcome. By advertising their fundraising event in this manner, Pika effectively launches a new attack in an age-old battle between the sexes. The obvious irony, of course, is that Pika’s flier attacks the very sex they seek to defend. While claiming to make a “real” and “worthwhile” contribution to Women’s Month, Pika betrays an underlying hostility to feminism. Poking fun at feminists for their efforts to resist oppressive attitudes is a curious way to promote the cause of battered women. The punchline of the joke is that it champions the cause of one group of women at the expense of another.

There is also a more subtle irony in Pika’s flier — the implication that dollars are more significant, “real,” and “worthwhile” than symbolic gestures of liberation. Of course, dollars have historically been the province of men, and symbols the sphere of women. But whereas men have controlled dollars, women have been symbols. Events like the bra burnings of the 70s, however silly they may seem to us today, were attempts by women to seize control of the symbols that defined and confined them. Dollars may indeed be more powerful than symbols — and more vital to the women in the shelter, who probably wouldn't be there if they were financially independent. But to acknowledge the power of the dollar should not be to overlook the value of symbols. Burning symbols of personal and social constraints may be beneficial to people who are financially secure and in no immediate danger of physical abuse, but whose frustration is nevertheless palpable and real. Pika’s flier makes it seem as if the symbolic efforts of feminists are antithetical to the material needs of battered women, rather than part of the same campaign for equal rights and protections.

Feminists (by definition, anyone who believes in the political, social, and economic equality of men and women) need not be opposed to fraternity members either. The battle we need to fight here at Davidson is not between the sexes; it’s a fight to overcome the hostilities and misconceptions that turn feminists into bra-burning man-haters and fraternity members into money-making misogynists.

The Gender Resource Center
Suzanne W. Churchill, faculty advisor
Kelly Chaston, faculty advisor

Where is your road going?