By Alison Kalett, Sports Editor

In their final home regular season meet of the season, the Wildcats swimming and diving team (5-7) proved that they are in top form as they look to three-peat at the upcoming Southern States Championships to be held on February 18-20. The men’s team drowned out Georgia Tech by 36 points, while both the men’s and women’s squads routed the College of Charleston by 45 and 51 points respectively.

On the women’s side, teamwork was the theme of the meet as seven different ‘Cats won events. Junior Mary Shell Brosche continued her outstanding season with a victory in the 200-yard freestyle. Also, Senior captain Kathleen Paffenroth won the 400-yard individual medley, freshman Kendra Berner claimed the 100-yard free, Senior Allison Hobgood took the 200 back, and junior Beth Wilson triumphed in the 200 breast. Hobgood, Wilson, and Brosche also joined freshman Starr Daniell to win the 400-yard medley relay. Freshman diver Liz Nugent was also key in the ‘Cats victory as she won the 3-meter diving event.

“It was definitely one of the team’s better performances and a good meet for all the girls,” Nugent said. Also providing solid performances for the Lady Wildcats were freshmen Lisa Rossello and Heidi Hester. Rossello and Hester claimed second and third places respectively in the grueling 1650-yard freestyle. Also, junior Rachel Horak continued to swim well in the sprinting events as she took second in the 50-yard freestyle.

The College of Charleston also proved to be no match for the men’s team, as the ‘Cats took first place in 9 of the 13 events. “The team overall swam pretty well,” said Freshman Michael Warner. “We showed them (College of Charleston) that we were there to mean business.” Warner enjoyed an outstanding meet as he claimed victory in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events.

“I was pretty pleased with my performance,” Warner said. “It’s where I need to be at this point in the season.” Also shining for the ‘Cats were three juniors. Sam Kuykendall won the 200-yard butterfly and Scott Harper led a first, second, and third place sweep in the 400-yard individual medley. Terry Dolch’s winning time of 1:56.22 in the 200 backstroke completed yet another Davidson first through third place sweep.

The men’s victory over the College of Charleston was their second in two days. On Friday, they handed Georgia Tech a 36-point defeat. The ‘Cats claimed first and second places in several events. Sophomore Kurt Hirsekorn and junior Scott Harper dominated the 200 individual medley. Also, juniors Kuykendall and Mark Medendorp took first and second in the 200-yard butterfly while the freshman-senior duo of Warner and Michael McCabe swept the 100-yard freestyle.

Looking ahead, the ‘Cats will travel to Duke this Saturday for their final regular season meet in preparation for the upcoming Southern States Championships.

Women: Wildcats 143, College of Charleston 92
Men: Wildcats 132, College of Charleston 87
Wildcats 135, Georgia Tech 99

Wildcats fall to Georgia Southern...miss “golden opportunity”

By Mike Anderson, Sports Editor

Davidson students would be well-advised to avoid wearing any Georgia Southern sweatshirts in the vicinity of the women’s basketball office this week. The Southern Conference rival continued to serve the role of the proverbial thorn in the side of John Filar, knocking off his Lady Wildcats last night by a score of 67-63.

Georgia Southern 67, Davidson College 63

“In my opinion, Georgia Southern is the most athletically talented team in the conference,” commented Coach Filar. “This was a golden opportunity for us tonight, with them missing a dominant player (junior forward Tondra Warren, the team’s second-leading scorer), and we couldn’t take advantage of that.” With the victory, Georgia Southern shattered the Wildcats’ nine-game home winning streak. In a sort of cruel...Ironically, it happened less than three weeks after the Lady Eagles broke Davidson’s running seven-game win streak back on January 6. Georgia Debbie Leonard, FoxSports: “It’s not easy to build an athletic program at the SAT capital of the world, but John Filar has done just that at Davidson.” Southern has now won six consecutive at Belk Arena, and 11 out of 14 against Davidson in the 1990s. Powered by a 12-0 run in the second half, the Lady Eagles overcame a two-point halftime deficit to procure their eighth conference victory of the season. “‘We held Georgia Southern, one of the top teams in the conference, to 39% from the floor and we still lost the game,” lamented Filar. “They had ten more shot attempts than we had, and that’s a result of our 27 turnovers.”

The game was knotted 63-63 with eleven seconds to play, but ended in precisely the same fashion as the team’s previous contest; with Georgia Southern scoring the game’s final six points. Jen O’Brien picked up a clutch defensive rebound off a Lady Eagle missed lay-up with twenty seconds to play. The league’s assist leader drove down-court and into the lane before dishing off a pass to a slashing Jessica Montrella, who sank a lay-up for an apparent two-point lead. But, with a whistle that brought the Belk Arena crowd to a standing fury, the referee slapped O’Brien with an offensive foul after the release of the pass. The foul sent Georgia Southern’s Mary Perry, a 75% free throw shooter, to the line with two shots. Perry hit the first of two free throws, and her teammate Tori Durrett secured the offensive rebound before being fouled by O’Brien. Davidson failed to regain possession of the basketball while Georgia Southern knocked down three more free throws in the closing seconds for the four-point victory.

“Comes down to 27 turnovers,” said Filar. “That’s where we lost the game. Of those 27 turnovers, I'll bet you 24 of them were unforced. That’s 27 possessions that we got nothing out of, and you can’t win a game that way.” Georgia Southern head coach Rusty Cram was without the services of Tondra Warren, his team’s second-leading scorer. The junior forward will miss at least three weeks due to a stress fracture in her right foot. Adding to the anguish of the loss was the knowledge that a victory over Georgia Southern last night could have lifted Davidson into second place in the Southern Conference, within as little as a single game from league-leading UNC Greensboro.

Instead, John Filar and his Wildcats fall to 6-5 in the conference (11-7 overall), and their hopes of ascending into the upper tiers of the standings in time for tournament seedings now remain primarily in the team’s ability to win on the road. That’s not the most promising of predicaments, considering that the Lady Wildcats have yet to prove themselves on the road this season. Though they knocked off Wake Forest at the Joel Coliseum early in the season, Davidson has won only one conference game on the road thus far. Their next three games, and five of their last seven, will be played outside the friendly confines of Belk Arena. Davidson travels to East Tennessee State on Saturday before hosting conference newcomer College of Charleston this Monday night at 7 PM.

JAMIE BROWN
The senior captain from Pennsylvania scored a career-high 24 points on Saturday against Chattanooga. She leads the team with 15.5 ppg, and is second in the SoCon with 7.9 rebounds per game.

MEN’S B-BALL vs. College of Charleston
Saturday, 7:30 PM. Belk Arena
For the first time in more than a decade, two NCAA tournament teams will meet in the following season’s SoCon action. Charleston enters the game with a perfect SoCon record for the year.

Photo courtesy of Mr. Jimmy Magette
Jamie Brown leads the charge.

Mike McCabe & Bill Patterson
Swimming & Diving
...for their “touching” performance on Saturday.