16 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson trio makes headway in music industry

"Every once in a while, I slip into the daily routine of college life." Then he adds with a smile and a shake of the head, "And I wind up with a headache that lasts for three or four days." 

"It's such a relief for me to have something to do that gets me off-campus."

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

It's a Wednesday evening last April at Davidson College. But something is different. From seemingly all possible perspectives, the usually-bustling college campus has been relegated to but a ghost town. The dormitories are nearly empty, and E.H. Little Library is home to little but abandoned books and idle piles of homework. Even the usual sprinklings of mid-week Patterson Court activities have been reduced to a few lights burning in the windows of fraternity houses.

But then the silence gives way to a burgeoning applause from the second floor of the College Union. As three young musicians, clad in classy suits, make their way to the stage of the 900 Room, the cheers coming from the hundreds of students and staff packed into the audience swell to almost a frenzied pitch. Davidson College students Dustin Edge, Randy Culbertson, and Mike Orlando nervously take their places on the stage. Culbertson, a vocalist and guitarist, takes a sip of water and straps on his instrument. Edge, who performs a majority of the lead vocals while playing both guitar and harmonica, does the same. And Orlando performs a final check on his mandolin and banjo. A few instants later, the room is filled with the friendly, inspiring sound of Edge’s harmonica overlaying a driving rhythm of guitars and Orlando’s banjo. As Edge begins to sing the first verse of their opening song, “When You Don't Come Around,” it seems as if the mid-week burdens of daunting exams and paper deadlines evaporate into the warmth of his take-it-easy lyrics.

"That took a lot of getting used to," admits Culbertson. "For a while, I couldn’t even listen to my own voice on any recordings. And now, to walk down my hall and hear three or four rooms playing our songs, that’s a whole something else to get used to." The way these CDs are selling, these three will have no choice but to get used to it. The recording studio labeled their music alternative country, "...but there’s so much different stuff on this CD, that you really can’t characterize it," says Edge. Orlando describes the music as, "...kind of country, rock, bluegrass, eighties, Irish...We all grew up listening to such different music, and now we kind of blend it all together. I think we're going to pioneer a whole new genre of music."

"A lot of people just describe our music as ‘happy,’" says Edge. The band’s name, Cast Iron Filter, reflects the rustic, rootsy sound they strive for in their music. "A cast iron filter is something that wouldn’t work too well," describes Culbertson. "Even when we sing love songs, though they’re sensitive ballads, they are the kind of love songs that you’re singing while you're driving home sweaty in a truck. They’ve got that rougher edge to them."

The title track is called Paradise in Palestine, a song written by Edge for his girlfriend, Becky, also a Davidson student. "If Becky were not at Davidson," quips Orlando, "Cast Iron Filter would not exist. We’d have nothing to sing about." Edge describes the song: "It is about a relationship. And it’s a reflection of who we are at this time of our lives, and the school we’re at. It’s a relationship and state in which you're so happy that the love you feel would be comparable to what paradise would be like were it to come to a place as war-torn as Palestine."

"There’s a lot of irony in that statement," adds Orlando. Perhaps part of the band’s appeal is that much of their music seems easily applicable to the lives of Davidson students. Paradise in Palestine... You can still get around this little crazy town, please try.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Good in their brand new suits,” goes the second verse of “When You Don’t Come Around”, “The world moves a little fast for me, I’m getting back to my roots.” The band is Cast Iron Filter, and the show marks the release of their debut album, entitled Paradise in Palestine. The trio sold over 500 copies of the eleven-track release in less than two weeks. It seems that hardly a hall on campus could be walked through last spring without their voices echoing from a multitude of rooms.

Take it easy, have a drink and try to settle down. Don’t worry about the rest of it and things will be all right... What we got is just like Paradise in Palestine... Seems to encourage the reputedly driven young men and women at Davidson to take a deep breath every once in a while and smell the roses that college life has to offer. “Our whole mentality really is as laid-back as you can get,” Edge says. “I’m in a bar late on a Tuesday night,” relates Culbertson, “smelling of smoke, drinking a beer, and playing guitar, and I’ve got a test the next morning. That’s not typical Davidson. If a lot of people here were in that situation, they’d cry!” he says with a laugh. “We all need to be reminded to slow down.”

For the band members, their music affords them that opportunity to break free of the daily grind of college studies and activities. Culbertson, who is also a varsity soccer player and a hall counselor during his junior year, admits, “The chorus of ‘to find yourself a little ray of sunshine and into another scene that I otherwise wouldn't spend much time in,’” says Orlando. “Sitting in a bar on a Monday or Tuesday night waiting our turn to play, it really broadens the Davidson perspective. We've seen a lot of things.”

“We talk about wanting to get away, and not wanting to get completely caught up in this place,” says Culbertson. “But on the other hand, when you do get caught up in it, and you do embrace what this place has to offer, you grow in so many different ways. You grow academically, because you're forced to study so many different things in the liberal arts curriculum. Had I gone to another place, this wouldn’t be happening. Davidson has allowed me to explore myself not only as a musician, but as an athlete, as a scholar, as a hall counselor, and even as a linguist in Italy.”

“I wouldn't trade this for any other place,” agrees Edge. “The rigor of this school academically forces you to have a certain outlook on how you're going to accomplish your goals. Right now, this music is what I most enjoy doing. While I have time to do it, I might as well do it. I don't want to have grown older and look back and realize that I wish I had tried to make a career out of it. I never want to have to second guess whether or not I could make it.”

While the academic rigors at Davidson might seem incompatible with the interests of a young band pursuing their love of music, the trio holds a deep appreciation and love for the institution and the community. “What this place has done for me is open so many doors, and there’s so many facets to life.”

The band plans to travel extensively over the upcoming months and play at a variety of venues while they prepare to record a second CD. But a look at the faces of Davidson students listening to the music of their three classmates suggests that there’s no second-guessing about it—Cast Iron Filter has already made it.

---

Solutions to Crossword
Don't peek!

S V N
Lae
oO os
£s Visi
>lw <x
g 3 HK
S. SGh<«\
-} o| Mw
Zz <is—iiw
KM wi2i
bt o\0-|
Hae oO
cvit- Ji>|-|z
Z| —|2/9
a 9).- |
Pi Wo
i. pal |Z
20/0 MN
<n uli
ew nN
zo <0
~ <it-
we Wwiac|O
= wial<z
qjaqdgq tt
of ‘Ha|-lo in
o +