Stumpf savors five minutes with her teammates
By David Rosenberg
Guest Columnist

Sometimes the most special things in sports go unnoticed. And a little past midday on a beautiful Sunday knocking on November, something special did happen. You couldn’t read about it in the sports information write-up. You couldn’t read it in the Observer’s boxscore the next morning. It lasted about five minutes.

Every year on the last home game of the season, each sport sends away with a tear the seniors who have given their time to a sport and school they love. No graduation of any kind compares to that from teammates and very few days are more special to an athlete. Such is especially true for a team without playoff hopes, but for a team such as the Davidson women’s soccer team, whose last game would hopefully be just a stepping stone on the way to the NCAA tournament, much was different.

Senior day is one that shouldn’t be special, one that acts as only a building block that would hopefully be forgotten in the celebration of a stellar championship year. Yet, even with recollection of a second place finish in the Southern Conference championship, the 1999 women’s soccer team will be one of the most celebrated teams in DC history. But not all things are written down.

After senior defender Natalie Stumpf blew out her knee for a second time in the first month of last year’s season, doctors told her the knee would never reach 80% strength. They also informed her of what soon would become a frightening reality - that her soccer career could be in serious question. After an intense summer of rehabilitation, with a knee that felt too weak to play on, the morning of the first practice, Stumpf recalled, “I went up to Coach and told him, ‘Coach, I just really can’t do it.’”

It remains questionable which gave Stumpf more pain: the two knee injuries or the acknowledgment that her soccer career was over. Not only would she miss contributing as a key player to the team, but being with her teammates with whom she had become so close. To still feel a part of the team, Stumpf retreated to the sidelines and enthusiastically cheered the team on to victories. And it would have been enough. Her applause from the bench every now and then would have earned her teammates’ and others’ respect. She could have stopped at encouragement and everyone would have been more than satisfied.

But a few weeks ago, the idea came to her that for one last time, she would love to play with her teammates she had known since the beginning. She began to focus on her rehab again. Slowly, she began to work into practice, on a knee of 80% strength. Last Sunday, on Parent’s Weekend, tucked away on the soccer field behind ‘F’ apartment in front of a packed crowd of caring parents and loyal fans, Stumpf heard her name called out on the loudspeaker along with the girls she had begun her career with. Doctors had decided that the knee couldn’t take more than five minutes of game time for no one wanted to risk another injury.

The entire team had worked out relentlessly in the offseason to prepare for an entire fall of record-setting success. Stumpf worked relentlessly in the offseason to play five minutes of a sport she loved with teammates she felt equally about. And though the love for the latter easily outweighs the former, “It was five minutes for which I am extremely grateful,” smiled Stumpf.

In only a few minutes, a player can’t statistically achieve much in a soccer game. Any other sport might be different, for in basketball a player might score a few baskets, or in football, make a tackle and have something to show for effort. Five minutes of soccer is different, for rather than baskets scored or tackles made, trivial acts of hustle most often determine the score of most soccer games. But its inconsequence is what makes it so special. For as irrelevant it was to those keeping score, it found its consequence in the nine seniors with whom she began her Davidson career.

Referring to Stumpf’s five minutes, senior teammate Kate McKnight commented: “In terms of cohesiveness, we were all there. We are a tight group. She has been there with us since freshman year and we were all together again. It was special.”

Senior day for the women’s soccer Class of 2000 will most likely be forgotten by most everyone. Unfortunately, most will remember the loss to Furman in the championship game. Few statistics stand out more on a season scorecard than a 2-1 loss in a title game that went four overtimes. For the seniors, the championship loss was truly their final game, the unmarked senior day on their schedule. Last games, win or lose, hit hardest and few can imagine their feelings of having an NCAA bid dangle in front of them for four overtime periods and then having it yanked away. No scorekeeper can note that.

By the same token, nothing will ever be noted in any scorebooks of Stumpf’s performance on her senior day. No asterisks will buddy the 6-1 score to the game, indicating a senior’s five minutes played on a knee that has been twice a surgeon’s work. And no postscripts will attempt to explain how she risked a third knee blowout not so much for herself, but for the teammates with whom she had begun her career.

Season closes in 4th OT of Southern Conference title game
By Burcin Hardin
Sports Editor

Even though the Wildcats were not at Richardson Stadium, one has to wonder if the Southern Conference title game in Greensboro this past Sunday felt like somewhat of a homecoming. When the Wildcats posted a 1-0 victory over Georgia Southern in the 1996 Southern Conference finals it completed a hat trick of sorts—their third SoCon championship in three years. Previously, Davidson had knocked off Furman in ’95 and rolled past Georgia Southern for the first time in ’94 for the title.

After winning three conference crowns in his first three years at Davidson, Head Coach Kevin Hundley graduated a core of seniors after capturing...The '96 title and set himself to preparing a freshman class whose first taste of collegiate soccer was a conference championship. Talk about having a welcome mat put out for you. Fast forward over the next two years during which the Wildcats struggled to finish above .500 in the Southern Conference and only once saw the tournament semifinals to 1999, the season that would be the last leg of their collegiate soccer careers for those freshmen from the ’96 championship team. The Class of ’99 hoped to go out on that peak they came in on and put out the welcome mat that had been laid out for them three years ago. Ding, Ding, Ding... The Wildcats finished the regular season 11-7-2 overall and 8-1 in the Southern Conference, but by the time the Appalachian State Lady Mountaineers arrived at Richardson Stadium for the first game of the Southern Conference tournament, the slate was clean and everybody was 0-0 for the tournament. But there was only one way to increase that record and still play the next day. Led by the scoring efforts of freshmen Mary Ellen Schaefer and Heather Maloney, Davidson refused to close out its record-setting season and promptly handed the defeated Mountaineers a 2-0 loss. Schaefer struck first, only ten minutes into the game, as she fired a shot into the back of the goal after receiving on the left side a cross from Tara Maloney. The Maloney twins, Heather and Tara, both were credited with assists. Heather saw action later in the half at the 36:53 mark when she netted Davidson’s second goal of the night, finding the upper right corner of the goal and finishing a play that had begun with a pass from sophomore Natalie Cox. P.J. Bugg also assisted on the play. The Wildcats did well to protect their 2-0 lead in the second half as App State outshot the ’Cats four to three. With the Mountaineers unable to take advantage of the scoring opportunities thanks to junior goalie Winnie Corrigan, who recorded five saves on the night and her eighth shutout of the year, the Wildcats retired the Lady Mountaineers and began packing their gear for a trip to the semifinals in Greensboro. And in this corner... Every great team only becomes great by finally getting past the one thorny little obstacle that has pestered them for quite some time. For Davidson, that nemesis was the Georgia Southern Eagles and when the Wildcats beat the Eagles 3-0 in a mid-season, rain-soaked battle, Coach Hundley explained: “Georgia Southern is a team we've battled with for years, and to win the game convincingly is a big win for us.” So if one regular season win is big, imagine how significant it was that the Wildcats completed a 1999 sweep of the menacing Eagles with a 4-1 victory over sixth-seeded Georgia Southern in the semifinals Saturday. Carolyn Stumpf scored two goals within the first ten minutes of play to put the Wildcats up 2-0 at the half. Senior Ginny Dye set up Stumpf’s first goal, crossing the ball left to the sophomore midfielder who promptly fired a line drive into the lower right corner of the goal. Dye and Stumpf teamed up again only minutes later when Dye threaded a pass from midfield to Stumpf, who was settled squarely in front of the goal just outside the box. Stumpf’s shot sailed over the head of Furman keeper Vanessa Bales and bounced off the bottom of the crossbar into the net. Georgia Southern gained some momentum halfway through the second period when Southern Conference Player of the Year Tara Chaisson collected a rebound in front of the goal and punched a dribbler into the lower right corner, cutting Davidson's lead to one. Lauren Dennis effectively squashed that momentum when she netted the Wildcats' third score of the evening. Playing close to the end line on the far side of the field, Stumpf engineered the play with a pass that crossed parallel to the goal and found Dennis on the right side. The Wildcats went up 3-1 when the ball bounced off Dennis’ back and into the goal. Heather Maloney rounded out the scoring for the Wildcats with a penalty kick at the 86:14 mark, sealing the victory that would send the Wildcats to their first conference title game since 1996. The Second Best Way to Go... Scheduled on the tournament card for Championship Sunday were the Wildcats and the Furman Paladins in a rematch of the 1995 conference championship game, but this year’s contest was not a blowout like the 3-0 victory four years ago. Instead, the match went almost 150 minutes and only saw three scores—Davidson’s one and Furman’s two. Furman struck early with a Tara Brexel unassisted goal in the 17th minute, but the Paladins’ offense was quickly silenced. The Wildcat defense made a stand, refusing to let the game get out of hand. And early in the second period the offense played their part to even the game when Ginny Dye, assisted by Heather Maloney and Mary Ellen Schaefer, scored her sixth goal of the season at the 49:15 mark. The score stood tied at the end of regulation and would remain that way for almost an hour as the Wildcats and Paladins battled through four overtime periods. With only minutes left in the fourth OT, Furman’s Kaye Brownlee, the tournament’s Most Outstanding Player, drilled the winning shot from 18 yards out. Three Wildcats were named to the all-tournament team: Heather Maloney, Serah Falconi, and Penn Graves. Earlier in the week, five Wildcats had been selected to the all-conference team. Seniors Ginny Dye and Amy Balsinger along with junior goalie Winnie Corrigan and freshman Tara Maloney received first-team honors, and freshman Mary Ellen Schaefer made the second team as a midfielder. Ultimately, of course, the Davidson community wanted to see the Wildcats top Furman and advance to the NCAA tournament, but short of a bid to the big dance there was no better finale to this spectacular season than Sunday’s game. The 150-minute hard-nosed soccer battle that the Wildcats played Sunday exemplified the drive and resilience the team has displayed all year in leading the program to records for the longest undefeated streak (9 games) and most shutouts in a season (10). With every game this season and especially each OT period Sunday, the Wildcats stepped up to every challenge and put their hearts on the line. Who could have asked for more?