THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

Men’s hoops falls short in season opener
By Michael J. Kruse
The Wildcat Report

The men’s basketball team met a familiar opponent here Tuesday night — the game’s final four minutes. Demonstrating a disturbing
trend that plagued the Wildcats throughout last year’s disappointing 16-11 season — an uncanny inability to come out on top
in winnable games — coach Bob McKillop’s troops squandered a 77-76 late-game lead in losing 89-79 to Siena in the
first round of the Preseason NIT at Pepsi Arena.

“This was a great effort,” McKillop said, “but it was an unfinished performance.”

Rookie starter Wayne Bernard gave the Wildcats that precarious one-point advantage on a stop-and-pop jumper from the foul line with
3:20 to go. After an ensuing Davidson defensive stand, though, Landry Kosmalski’s semi-breakaway layup was blocked. Saints’ sharp-shooter Isaiah Stewart
used a fortuitous rim-to-glass-to-hoop bounce in nailing a go-ahead three-pointer from the top of the key seconds later. Siena led
the rest of the way, closing on a 13-2 run. McKillop called Stewart’s shot “the game’s biggest momentum shift.”

To be honest, though, Davidson had already exceeded expectations just by being in a position to win. The Wildcats —
talented but inexperienced — entered the game as 10-point underdogs. And Siena is a chic mid-major pick this season. Coach
Paul Hewitt’s Saints ranked No. 26 nationally in Sports Illustrated’s preseason rankings and are currently getting votes in the Associated
Press and ESPN/USA Today polls.

Using its helter-skelter full-court press, Siena forced 27 Wildcat turnovers. Davidson’s five starters — Michael Bree, Davor Halbauer, Bernard, Kosmalski,
and Stephen Marshall — combined for 22 of those. Siena built a 44-38 halftime lead and sat on a five-
to nine-point cushion for most of the first 10 minutes of the second half. Yet there the Wildcats were —
up a point at 7:30, 5:00, 4:53, and 3:20.

“There are a lot of positives to be taken from this game,” McKillop explained. “Wayne played well in his first
collegiate game, we hit our free throws as a team, and a lot of guys had the opportunity to contribute.”

After a pair of exhibition games in which he averaged 29.5 points and 12.5 rebounds, Southern Conference Player of the
Year candidate Kosmalski kicked off the regular season with 24 and 10. The 6-foot-7 forward also added six steals and
three assists in a 38-minute performance.

Sophomore transfer Fern Tonella has already become quite a presence on the Wildcat hardwood, having already logged 37 minutes in
two games. Tonella and fellow guards Michael Bree and Wayne Bernard combined for 20 assists in the Wildcats’ win over
Guilford Saturday night.

Ides leads the way in Guilford win
By Michael J. Kruse
The Wildcat Report

No fair. Playing against Division II Guilford, a team woefully undersized even for small-college competition, sophomore 7-footer Martin Ides scored
the first eight points of the game in an 86-59 Wildcat rout Saturday night at Belk Arena.

“They were at a disadvantage,” the humble Czech said. “I had the shots. So I didn’t think it was anything
special.”

Nothing special? In his first regular-season start, Ides finished with 14 points, six rebounds, and five blocks — all career
bests. He played a team-high 26 minutes.

The Wildcats jumped to an early 15-4 lead en route to a 49-26 halftime margin. They coasted the rest of
the way. Senior post man Stephen Marshall posted 17 points and seven rebounds, both team bests. Davor Halbauer had 12
points, and Jeff Bergmann and Brian Turner each added 11. Young guards Michael Bree, Fern Tonella, and Wayne Bernard combined
for 20 assists. The Wildcats also came up with 14 blocks and 19 steals.

“We were better tonight than we were yesterday,” coach Bob McKillop said. “We're showing progress. But we’re still rough on
the edges.”

The Wildcats face D-III Haverford tonight. Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m.

Kruse is the editor of The Wildcat Report, a monthly newsletter that covers Davidson basketball.Senior post player Stephen Marshall came
back from a nagging back injury to contribute 20 points and nine rebounds. Bernard was steady with 12 points on
5-for-7 shooting from the floor. And sparkplug Brian Turner had a career-high 11 points. The Wildcats shot just 38.7 percent
from the field—but dominated at the free throw line with a 27-of-32 showing. That kept it close.

“Davidson played exactly as expected them to,” Hewitt said. “Bob McKillop is an excellent coach. If you’ve seen them play,
you know one of their trademarks is they play hard all the time. They battle and they’re tough.” All true.
But just not quite tough enough down the stretch.

Kruse is the editor of The Wildcat Report, a monthly publication that covers Davidson men’s basketball.

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

For almost 15 months Wildcat hoops fans have been waiting for a breakout performance from Martin Ides. On Saturday night,
Davidson’s 7-foot-2 center delivered. The Czech cracked the Wildcat starting lineup for the first time in regular season play, and
made his presence felt immediately. Ides won the opening tip over a hopelessly dwarfed opponent, Guilford’s 6’5” Brad Cress, and
never looked back. The sophomore darted down-court and accepted a feed from freshman Wayne Bernard. Ides spun around and went
strong to the basket for his first two points of the contest. The second time down the floor, Davidson’s... If
it ain't broke, don’t fix it. Davidson went to Martin again on their third possession, and the Czech-er Wrecker dropped
in a hook shot from the baseline. Martin Ides 6, Guilford 0.

As Davidson trekked down court for the fourth time, Guilford coach Butch Estes bristled the instant Ides received the ball.
His worries were well-founded—Ides proceeded to drop in his fourth consecutive nothing-but-net basket and Davidson extended its lead to eight.
In under three minutes, Ides had eclipsed his previous career high of 7 points in a game.

“Martin is getting better and better,” said Head Coach Bob McKillop. “People have to get him the ball; they did.
He has to finish by converting down low; he did. He poses match-up problems for all the teams in the
Southern Conference. We’re just trying to get him the experience to have him prepared for the conference schedule.”

Ides was none short on experience Saturday night, logging a career-high 26 minutes. Over that span, he set career-highs with
14 points, 6 rebounds, and 5 blocked shots.

“I didn’t think it was anything special,” mused Ides with soft-spoken humility. “Obviously they had a little disadvantage size-wise, so
I don’t think I was anything special. I wanted to play well.”

Ides spent this past summer playing with the Czech Republic national team. “He got a lot of great experience and
confidence while playing with the Czech team this summer,” explained Wildcat point guard Michael Bree. “He came back really ready
to play. He’s made enormous progress from last year.”

“Martin knew that this game was a great opportunity for him to show what he could do,” said Bree. “He
made the best of it.”

Alternative Gift Fair
Sunday, December 5th in the Union 2-4 PM

Honor your friends and family by giving gifts to needy people in their names.
* Enough food for hungry families every day
* Clean water that guards children from preventable diseases
* Planted trees that protect topsoil from erosion for new harvests
* Essential medicines for the sick who have no medicine
* An opportunity for orphans to gain an education or for adults to learn to read
* A secure, safe shelter for street kids and homeless people without a roof over their heads

“Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed persons can change the world; it’s the only thing that ever
has.” - Margaret Mead
