The Davidsonian

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
Established 1914

“Vandals” will come alive.
Professor Alan Parker’s poetry performed.

NEWS 2

Wildcat women win.
Field hockey, soccer triumph.

SPORTS 16

Davidsonian Editor Emeritus returns
Kruse in the spotlight!

OPINIONS 8

Movie review
By an actual Davidson student!

A&L 10

Irwin Belk Track and Stephen B. Smith Field dedicated

A view of the new Irwin Belk Track and Stephen B. Smith Field

By Laura McCandlish
News Editor

*Information courtesy of Sports Information Press Release

Athletics were celebrated at Davidson on Saturday with the official completion of the new Irwin Belk Track and Stephen B.
Smith Field, in recognition of his contributions as a community leader, sportsman, philanthropist, and Davidson supporter. The field is named
in honor of Stephen B. Smith ’66, who is the Managing Director of Lehman Brothers in Dallas, Texas.

Prior to the dedication, a reception was held for donors at Richardson Stadium. The dedication began at 11:30 a.m., with
an introduction by Athletic Director Jim Murphy. President Bobby Vagt followed, speaking praises of the newly leveled track and field,
and remodeled locker room facilities.

Please see Unveiling on page 5 for continuation.

Belk attended Davidson from 1941-42, and his father, William Henry Belk, served as a Davidson Trustee. A star track athlete
at UNC Chapel Hill, Belk has served on the U.S. Olympic Committee for over 40 years and has been an
active philanthropist and supporter of athletics, especially track and field, in the Charlotte region and across the nation. He is
the retired president of the Belk Group in Charlotte.

Smith had a distinguished career at Davidson, having received the Distinguished Military Student Award, the C.T. Stowe Memorial Award, and
an NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship. A walk-on running back for the Wildcats’ football team, Smith earned a dedication and ribbon-cutting were
held for donors, and a brief ceremony was also held at halftime to dedicate the new track and field. The
eight-lane track is named in honor of Mr. Irwin Belk, housed within Richardson Stadium. That morning, Davidson cross country runners
and alumni ran in a 5K race, and the Wildcats’ football team christened the new field in their first season
home game later in the afternoon, against Jacksonville University.

Please see Unveiling on page 5 for continuation.

Return of Ulysses, one of Professor Herb Jackson’s pieces on display this month. Article on page 11.

INDEX

EDITORIALS 6
OPINIONS 6
ARTS & LIVING 9
SPORTS 13

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

DEADLINES & AD RATES

All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles
received after this deadline will not be edited or placed. These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s)
or dropped off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks can be used
if the file is saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40

For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supersede the Friday deadline.
