THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

George Lawrence Abernethy gift agreement

Purpose of fund:

The George Lawrence Abernethy strengthens the intellectual life of Davidson College by funding programs and projects related to the areas of George Abernethy's principal interests and lifelong work in philosophy, ethics, politics, economics, public health, world affairs, and comparative religion. Such programs and projects shall consist of collaborative research by students and faculty, cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer, and public lectures.

Process:

Applications will be reviewed and evaluated by a committee composed of a senior student, Robert Abernethy, an assistant professor, a full professor, the dean of the faculty, and the president of the college. Faculty appointments will be made by the president for terms of three years. Initial appointments will provide for staggered terms. Committee members will not make applications for Abernethy Endowment funds during their term of service nor will they participate in the evaluation of proposals in which they have a perceived interest. Following adequate publicity, applications will be submitted by November 15 of each year, with announcements of awards no later than the following January 15.

Awards:

An amount consistent with the Endowment spending rates set by the Board of Trustees will be distributed annually to successful applicants. Funds not utilized in one year will be available for distribution in subsequent years. The committee will make multiple awards in each annual cycle. Proposals will be evaluated on the quality of the project impact, the level of student participation, and the potential for successful implementation. Awards will not be made to the same project in consecutive years, nor will they be made to the same applicant(s) in consecutive years. No more than twenty-five percent of an Abernethy Endowment grant will be utilized for the purpose of equipment, hardware, and software. A written description of funded activities will be submitted to the president within ninety days of each project's completion.

Management Fund:

The fund, although separately named and identified, shall be managed as part of the Davidson College Endowment under guidelines established and reviewed annually by the Board of Trustees. At no time shall endowment principal be expended.

Clark Ross went on to say: “With the Abernethy funds, Davidson College students can pursue individual initiatives that complement their on-campus education and also students can work directly with faculty on challenging research projects. To me, the use of these funds demonstrates the excellence of a Davidson education and the opportunities that we are able to afford students, thanks to the commitment of our faculty and to the generosity of our donors.”

Davidson graduate obtains prominent appointment

By Kim Johnson Counts
Hunton & Williams Public Relations

The Charlotte branch of the Hunton & Williams law firm announced last Wednesday that attorney T. Thomas Cottingham, III, Davidson College Class of ’69, has been appointed to serve as Co-Chair of the Trial Evidence Committee of the American Bar Association’s Litigation Section. Cottingham also joins the Litigation Section leadership group that oversees the nationwide membership of 55,000. Cottingham, the only appointee from North Carolina, is not the only Hunton & Williams lawyer in the Litigation Section leadership group. He joins fellow Hunton & Williams attorney Alan Rudlin of the Richmond, Virginia office, who serves on the Council in the Litigation Section.

“This leadership position will give me the opportunity to work closely with some of the best private firms and corporate law departments in the Carolinas and across the country,” said Cottingham, head of the Litigation and Labor Team for the Charlotte office.

As part of his leadership responsibilities, Cottingham’s committee will plan meetings and seminars for the entire membership. His first challenge will be organizing the group’s co-sponsorship of a program for the Litigation Section’s spring meeting in Seattle. In addition, the group is charged with co-sponsoring a program at the ABA annual meeting in July in New York.

A long-time member of the ABA, Cottingham previously served as co-chair for the Southeast Region of the Business Torts Committee of the Litigation Section.

In addition, Cottingham has been appointed to serve as co-managing partner for the Charlotte office with David E. Johnston. Johnston joined Hunton & Williams in 1995 and was a key figure in opening the firm’s Charlotte office. Cottingham and Johnston will work together to continue the strong growth of the Charlotte office.

Founded in Richmond, Virginia in 1901, Hunton & Williams employs 650 lawyers in ten U.S. offices including New York, Washington, Raleigh, Charlotte, Atlanta, and Miami. Overseas, Hunton & Williams lawyers serve clients in London, Hong Kong, Bangkok, Islamabad, Warsaw, Brussels, and Vienna and in more than eighty countries on six continents in all major practice areas. The firm’s Charlotte office is located on the 35th floor of Bank of America Plaza at 101 S. Tryon Street.

Information Table

Grey College Union Lobby

It takes a special person to travel halfway around the earth to preserve a couple of square miles of it.

- Wednesday, 10/20, 11 a.m. - 3 p.m.

PEACE CORPS.
How far are you willing to go to make a difference?

Information Session

Grey College Union Conference Room
Davidson College
www.peacecorps.gov 1-800-424-8580

Wednesday, 10/20, 7 p.m.

@ Carl Knobloch and his daughter Emmy ’82 at the groundbreaking festivities.

@ Robert Russ, Al Tiloni, and Steve