THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Derek Politzer
Staff Writer

Saturday, 4-10-99:
In an effort to intensify NATO's air campaign against Serbia, the U.S. and Britain pledged to deploy more warplanes and
aircraft to the region. For the first time since Yugoslavia closed its border on April 7, refugees streamed into northern
Albania and Macedonia. After severe thunderstorms with winds of 200 miles an hour ripped through the Midwest on Friday, rescue
workers sifted through the rubble on Saturday. The storms killed six people and caused millions of dollars in damage.

Sunday, 4-11-99:
While President Clinton urged the continuation of NATO’s air campaign, Congressional and public support for ground troops swelled on Sunday.
According to White House Chief of Staff John Podesta, President Clinton never definitively ruled out the use of ground troops
but rather decided against their use “for the time being.” Senator and presidential hopeful John McCain, who has advocated the
introduction of ground troops, called for a Congressional resolution that would authorize the administration to use “whatever means necessary to
achieve victory.” Germany has offered Yugoslav President Milosevic a last chance to end the NATO attacks, so long as he
would accept an OSCE-led international force in Kosovo, a troop withdrawal, and an immediate halt to the ethnic cleansing. India
test-fired a long-range missile capable of carrying a nuclear warhead on Sunday. As Pakistan immediately condemned the move as a
direct threat to Pakistani security, Japan, Britain, and the U.S. expressed concern. Just two days after the assassination of Niger’s
president, the army's lower ranks have taken control in an apparent military coup. Up to 5,000 individuals suffering from ovarian
cancer could be saved each year thanks to a new, more accurate screening test.

Monday, 4-12-99:
Marxist rebels hijacked a domestic Colombian airliner with 46 people on board, forcing it to land in a remote guerrilla
stronghold in the Bolivar province. Clinton has been cited for contempt of court for lying about his relationship with Monica
Lewinsky. A prominent conservation group named Washington state’s Snake River the most endangered waterway in the United States.

Relay for Life
Continued from previous page
extremely strict requirement. Still, she said that each team did raise approximately $1,000. The night began with a Cancer survivors
and then a Cancer patient caretakers walk. Then at 7 p.m., everyone else began. The American Cancer Society provided entertainment
and support all evening. The entertainment included a talent show on Friday night, a DJ for the entire walk, a
dance contest, aerobics, juggling, and a late-night movie. Free food for the participants was also provided. Haylock said that it
was definitely a community event. The entire walk was the most successful in our area in terms of participation and
events according to Haylock. Relays in South Charlotte and Mooresville also took place during the same time. The combined efforts
of the town, business, and College teams raised approximately $58,800. Haylock thanked the faculty members who filled vacant spots on
PCC teams, calling them the top money raisers. Haylock hopes that PCC will continue its participation next year with Relay
for Life being its big, inter-house event, but she said that PCC is waiting to receive feedback.

Correction:
The Davidsonian apologizes for the mistake in the April 12 edition in which the Charles Lloyd award was called the
Charles Wilson award.

Domestic and international news briefs

Tuesday, 4-13-99:
As the Pentagon reviewed NATO’s request for an additional 300 aircraft, NATO missiles pounded Yugoslavia’s main oil refinery on Monday.
The DOW set its 13th record high this year on Tuesday, up 55.50 points at 10,339.51. Florida Governor Jeb Bush
declared a state of emergency for the entire state after a spate of devastating forest fires.The USDA declared 30 million
pounds of beef from Arkansas unfit for human consumption Tuesday. Some of this meat had been exported to Russia and
South Korea.

Wednesday, 4-14-99: After Yugoslav troops seized and torched an Albanian town just over the Yugoslav border, U.S. officials warned President
Milosevic that any attempt to spread the war beyond Yugoslav borders is intolerable. President Clinton said that the NATO air
campaign was “grinding down” the Yugoslav war machine and that he has still not ruled out the use of ground
troops to eventually supplement the air strikes.

In response to India's long-range missile test, Pakistan claimed to test-fire a 1,250-mile nuclear-capable ballistic missile. Pakistani officials announced their
plans for future tests as well. Russia, Japan, and the U.S. expressed regret.

Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji urged Americans Wednesday not “to make such a big deal out of this trade deficit.” He
said that the U.S.’s assessment of its trade deficit with China at $56.9 billion is exaggerated, which he has put
at $21.1 billion. A recent academic study estimated the current trade deficit at $36 billion.

Former Vice President Dan Quayle announced his candidacy for president Wednesday in an address in his hometown of Huntington, Indiana.

O.J. Simpson is back in the news, this time for escaping from an armed assailant. After a man brandishing a
gun ordered Simpson into the back of his sports utility vehicle, he wrestled the attacker and bit his hand.

Thursday, 4-15-99: NATO airplanes engaged in the heaviest air strikes to date in the Yugoslav capital Thursday. After a civilian
convoy sustained a brutal attack Wednesday, resulting in dozens of deaths, NATO and Serb officials exchanged harsh criticism, each blaming
the other side for the attack. NATO confirmed Thursday that its planes mistakenly hit Albanian refugees fleeing a Serbian onslaught.
President Clinton expressed remorse for those who were killed but declared such deaths “inevitable,” as Milosevic has used civilians as
human shields and has dispersed his military convoys among civilians.

TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1999

Two people died Thursday after a mentally ill 70-year-old man opened fire in a celebrated genealogical center in Utah. The
FBI called a series of Serbian terrorist threat letters against military compounds in the U.S. simply a “rant.”

For the first time, astronomers discovered a three-planet solar system with Upsilon Andromedae at its center. According to planet-hunters, this
find has indicated that millions of earth-like planets may exist in our own galaxy.

Friday, 4-16-99: The U.S. was considering a plan to send 33,000 reservists to expand NATO’s assault on Yugoslavia. On the
ground in Kosovo, the Serbian campaign of ethnic cleansing resumed with full force Friday. The United Nations Refugee Agency, UNHCR,
indicated that Yugoslav authorities seemed intent on driving all Albanians out of Kosovo. Refugees continued to report ethnic cleansing, including
mass killings and rapes, in Kosovo.

After six candidates withdrew from the Algerian presidential elections to protest fraud, the only remaining candidate, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, was declared
the winner Friday. With the strong support of the military, Bouteflika has said he would not accept the post without
a major turnout and without a substantial majority. The six other candidates’ names, however, remained on the ballot.

Congress passed a $1.7 trillion budget Friday that would cut taxes.

MAKING BUSINESS EASIER? WORLDWIDE, MAIL BOXES ETC.

WHEN FINALS ARE OVER, THE CRAMMING BEGINS.

Boxes and Packing Tape Supplied | Fast Ground or Air Shipping via UPS

BRING:
- Computers
- Clothes
- Books
- Stereo
- Trunks

Do your own boxing or we will gladly package any or all of your items.

Mail Boxes Etc.
Exit 28 Cornelius, Next to Starbucks Coffee
892-9760
