6 THE DAVIDSONIAN Op/Ep TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1999

Thanks, and be civil, damnit

The picture idea has been done, the thank you letters have been written, the new equipment has been listed. Where does my editorial go now? I suppose that is a question that only I can answer. Hmmm, this might actually mean I have to do some thinking... God not that! I don’t even have the excuse that I am tired and it is extremely late (late being a very loose term in the Davidsonian office), for the clock reveals that the hour is only half past one.

Before I go on to discuss my topic for this week, I want to inform all of the readers that we are back on the web. Yes, you are not mistaken, after nearly a year’s hiatus, The Davidsonian has graced the 20th century with a “URL” address on the w.w.w. again. It would be wrong for me to claim any credit for this, aside from being the demanding person that I am. Stephen Gamboa, who recently returned from Florence, has been one of the whirlwind forces around the Davidsonian office. Stephen made many of the new technical improvements possible for the paper, the most recent being The Davidsonian online. I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of the entire staff for all that he has done.

That finished, I am going to move on to my topic for this week. The idea for this week’s editorial has been simmering in my mind for a while now—it centers on the idea of being civil: “a refraining from rudeness.” I have noticed lately that some people do not understand the art of kindness. Just because you do not like someone does not mean that you have the right to be rude to them. Be the bigger person and ignore those intense feelings of animosity and hatred, and walk away. I would be the biggest hypocrite if I said that I do this all the time or even some of the time. What I am saying is that I realize that I should do this, and I want to be able to do this.

I recently came to the conclusion that it sucks when somebody intentionally does things to hurt you. Duh, it always sucks when somebody does something deliberately to hurt you, but for the sake of this article, let’s just say this is a recent revelation. Being nice to people is not that big of a chore. If you abhor someone so much, avoid them; don’t put yourself in a social setting where you are going to be in contact with them. If you do happen to run into one another (this being the most likely scenario on our small campus), be civil! All it takes is a small smile or a hi—nothing more, nothing less. You do not have to go out of your way to be nice; but you also don’t have to go out of your way to be mean. You can even do a simple head nod and walk on. Don’t turn around and make lewd hand gestures or mouth vulgar sayings. As much fun as this can be sometimes, did it really make you feel all that much better? Hmmm, well I guess that is for you to decide.

I realize that I am probably one of the worst people to write such an article. Some would even go so far as to say that it is quite ironic that I am writing this. But you know what? I am trying to turn over a new leaf, that is what college is all about, growing up and becoming the bigger person!

jbl

Dinuwaty Z-

I’m wearing a tuxedo

I don’t have a picture this week to prove it, but trust me. Last week we found our minds crippled by frustration and sleep deprivation, and so chose to play with the digital camera. In some people’s minds this may have been the consummate cop-out, but if you consider that it was the first time in Davidsonian history that an issue of Davidson College’s Foremost College Weekly contained photographs that were taken the very morning of publication, those somber visages begin to assume a deeper, more prominent meaning.

But back to the tux. It’s not because I thought dressing formally would improve morale at The Davidsonian. It’s because I had a “gig” tonight, as it were. Tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the DC Presbyterian Church sanctuary, your very own Davidson College Symphony Orchestra gave its first concert of three this semester, wherein I assumed my duties as “Head Tuning Guy” (thank you, Sarah Ogden) once again.

“You tell me this... as if I care.” Well, a few of you might. Most students may not have even been aware that there was early eighteenth-century rock ‘n’ roll (i.e. Bach) being performed live and free to the public this evening on campus. We did have an audience, however—mild yet respectable and appreciative. And why not? Betweenthe college symphony orchestra and the concert choir alone, these ensembles represent no less than 10% of the student population. Which, for not being a conservatory, is pretty impressive. And one in four of us participates in a varsity sport - maybe even more impressive. And if you’re not a musician or an athlete, chances are good that you’ve found another aspect of campus life upon which to make Alenda Lux your impact. Point being: Many of us have extracurricular interests (nay - passions), and we owe it to one another to support each other in them. (This may be the sappiest, most idealistic editorial that I'll ever write, but I’ve changed my topic ten times tonight, and I’m well past the point of no return.)

Earlier this year, I attended the conference cross country meet here at Davidson. I never realized until actually witnessing one of these events what a world of pain and anguish it is to be a member of the cross country team. But something about the experience is valuable enough to each of them that it keeps them participating year after year, despite the many sacrifices involved. I still do not understand the sickness that pervades these athletes and drives them onward, but after taking the opportunity to witness them in their element, I come much closer to that understanding.

And what about the orchestra? We rehearse as a group for up to 4 hours per week for over two months, all for the sake of putting on a single 90-minute concert. I don’t mean to imply that being in the DCSO is as strenuous as running 50 miles per week, but one can draw a slight parallel.

I believe it’s important for us to take time to attend as many games, meets, concerts, plays, and exhibits as we can squeeze into our already saturated weeks. These experiences are edifying and priceless, for they help bring us closer to fellow students and make our experience of four years at Davidson much more comprehensive. So, in the interest of magnanimity, I'll support you in your sickness if you’re willing to support me in mine. And be civil for John.

LETTERS

This isn’t the real world!

To the Editors:

I couldn’t help but laugh last week when I read Stephen Cefalu’s article about Sedric Webber and the College of Charleston game. In case you didn’t read it, Cefalu slammed Webber for not being a “gracious victor” when he yelled back at the Davidson crowd after the game. Granted, I don’t think Webber acted in the most prestigious manner, but let’s not kid ourselves- neither did we.

As anyone who regularly attends a Davidson basketball game would attest, we aren’t exactly the most G-rated crowd, especially at the bigger games, like Duke or College of Charleston. Like most of the other guys in the crowd, I'll chant “bullshit” when a call deserves it, I'll tell the ref to get his head out of his ass when it’s obvious that’s where it is, and I'll give players choice words about their apparent lack of abilities if the plays call for it. No, I for one am not strictly a “Let’s go team!” type, nor are most Davidson students. And while Webber and some of the other Charleston players were not acting gentlemanly after the game, let us not think that we were either.

Do I think we should change? Hell no! One of the best parts of the game (aside from watching Davor dunk when he’s got Landry and Ebong right next to him) is watching our crowd use its above-average intellect and throwing out insults that you can’t find anywhere else. I, for one, am proud of the fact that we’re obnoxious sons-of-bitches out there- it makes me think that players are scared to come into our turf. I know that some people are reading this and saying something along the lines of, “You had better learn respect in the real world, sonny,” but you know what? This isn’t the real world! It’s college! So go out to the games, give the players hell, and let the refs know what you think about their mothers, tell the other coaches that they’re overweight and yell too much. Just don’t be surprised when they decide to dish a little back in our direction- it’s all part of the game. And remember that in the end, guys like Sedric will be cleaning the Slurpee machine in a 7-11 and driving some piece of crap worse than my Honda, wishing that he could have found one more insult to throw in our direction.

Greg Filak ‘00

Contact Melissa at x63585 or Seth at x6638