BY Mary PERRIN ANDERSON - Staff Writer & Fortune Teller Extraordinaire

Pisces (February 18-March 20)
Once again, Pisces, you are right on the money. Savor your pelts and enjoy a triumph as you pat yourself
on a job well done.

Aries (March 21-April 19)
Aries didn’t like it raw last week but that is okay. If you are having a birthday this week, relax.
This month academics are sliding across a floor covered in razor blades and landing in a pool of alcohol. It’s
just not fun.

Taurus (April 20-May 19)
Beware of skinny jeans, Taurus! They want your bod and your wallet, but you’re the Big Bull and you can
handle it. Give 'em a good ride.

Gemini (May 20-June 20)
Congratulations on finding that long-lost friend, Gemini! Look out for pastas on the 2nd and any sort of béchamel cream
sauce all month long. Geminis have stamina in all aspects of life and love, but food poisoning sucks. Your parents
come through with a new luxury vehicle with your name on it. Congrats!

Cancer (June 21-July 21)
Hate to say it, Cancer, but your astronomical alignment has been shot to hell. The stars do not control El
Niño and other torrential weather patterns. Sorry about this—you have no hope. Best just to go back to bed.

Leo (July 22-August 22)
Leo thinks that he can just tell the stars what to do and make his own future, but this is
wrong. The planets are angry with Leo and will purposely misalign themselves in order to bring utter destruction and desolation
upon uppity Leos. You may be a Lion, Leo, but the stars say that you’ll be squeaking this week.

Virgo (August 23-September 21)
Lucky Virgo’s star is on the rise. Look out for large quantities of cash and all your dreams coming true.
No worries this month, Virgo; the stars are shining kindly upon you.

Libra (September 22-October 22)
Balance your scales, Libra. The rest of the world is waiting for you to catch up but you’re not doing
a very good job. Look into a canister of Metamucil. You need to loosen things up!

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)
Uh-oh, Scorpio. Things are looking down this week. An angry Taurus can be appeased, but tread carefully! A non-conformist who
thinks that he can control his every move is waiting to abscond with your newfound happiness.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 20)
Don’t let your friends know about that infection. They wouldn’t understand. Lend troubled Leo a helping hand because his luck
has run out. The planets are aligned in such a way as to create much stress, but major rewards are
at the end of the tunnel. Good luck!

Capricorn (December 21-January 19)
The stars and planets demand that Capricorn purchase a plastic swimming pool, fill it with candy corns and various seasonal
goodies, and wallow in a sugar bath until the candy hardens in the sun and traps him in a castle
of sweetness. Take a friend, Capricorn, it's gonna be hot and sticky.

Aquarius (January 20-February 17)
You find yourself being highly sought-after this month by someone you don’t particularly care about. It’s likely an Aries, but
it is negotiable. Don’t eat the Ring Dings before someone else tests them out, and keep that rabbit cage locked!

Into the Woods...

DO Kitchen: Come taste some DO Specialties
Wednesday, March 24th
11:30am-1:30pm
Union Patio

Open Mic-Nature Music, Stories, Poetry
Thursday, March 25th
11pm-1am
Outpost

Photo Hike: Catch some super nature shots with other photo enthusiasts at South Mt. State Park
Saturday, March 27th
Sign up at DO

Get outside and play! Look for more events on flyers in the Union brought to you by Davidson Outdoors

THE DEBATE: PORNOGRAPHY AND WOMEN’S RIGHTS
Nadine Strossen and Gail Dines debate the issue of censoring pornography

This 7-member ensemble will perform traditional music from Mexicoand Central America. Thursday, March 25th 7:30pm 900 Room Monday, March 29th
8:5pm Love Auditorium

FOLKLORISTAS

TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1999

The Lost Formicans invade Black Box Theater

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

What is a Formican? Why are they lost? For that matter, what is “Tales of the Lost Formicans” about? To
answer the questions one by one (in order to apply logic to the whole mess of things), a Formican is,
perhaps, a man with Alzheimer’s disease who loses his reason. Or maybe a Formican is any lost soul without someone
to love. Or maybe it’s an alien who wears aluminum foil and looks surprisingly like Vic Brand. And as for
why they are lost — does anyone really know where she or he is going? As for what the play
is about — I’m not really sure — but I enjoyed it anyway.

“Tales of the Lost Formicans” showed in the Black Box Theatre of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building at 8:00 p.m.
on March 17, 18, and 19, and at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. on March 20. The play is a strange
comedy written by Constance Congdon, a veteran playwright from Massachusetts whose other credits include “Native American,” “No Mercy,” “The Gilded
Age,” “Rembrandt Takes A Walk,” and “Casanova.” Her play “Tales of the Lost Formicans” takes place chiefly in the suburbs
of Colorado, “Rocky Mountain High” takes on a whole new meaning.

The Davidson College Theater Department’s production of “Tales of the Lost Formicans” pulled off the play’s unique brand of comedy
and poignancy. I saw the play on Saturday at 7:00 p.m. The play entertained me on a night when I
was decidedly opposed to being entertained. Usually, when I get opposed to laughter, I can hold my ground. But because
of the zany opening of the play and the voice-overs, I was soon pushed from my foothold. No, I didn’t
roll on the ground laughing. I did, however, have a good time.

I was impressed by the actors’ ability to keep straight faces, although, at one point on Saturday night’s 7:00 p.m.
showing, Matthew Hurt had to hide his laughter on the leg of an audience member. Not often do the actors
in a play go over and lay their heads on an audience member’s legs — there’s a Formican for you!
The play was just too funny for its own good.

The acting troupe was headed by Mary Katherine Stickel, who played Cathy, a single mother returning home to live with
her elderly parents. Those elderly parents are Evelyn and Jim, played by Miranda Todd and Matthew Hurt, respectively. Matt Strader,
of “Romantic Comedy” fame, played Cathy’s highly irritable son Eric. Then there was Jerry, Mr. Conspiracy Theory, played by Ed
Ellington. The number of similarities between Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy are staggering. Trust me — I heard it
all from the Lost Formicans. Judy, Cathy’s somewhat neurotic friend, was played by Ainsley Hines, who according to the play’s
program, makes “too much noise on Basement Belk.” She has found her calling in the theater. Finally, there was Actor,
played by Vic Brand. Vic certainly wields impressive control of his voice.

The play could not have been put on without the efforts of her director, Anne Lambert. I can’t imagine introducing
this play to the cast and crew. Lori Thompson was the production stage manager while J. Ronnie Higdon did the
lighting and sound. The Rayban sunglasses worn by the cast were certainly a nice touch. The sounds were an entertaining
part of the play, and the music, with the help of Dr. Neil Lerner, was on point — assuming, of
course, that the play has a point. I am not sure of this fact, but, hey, what is certainty anyway?
For that matter, what is reality? I hope that one of the Formicans knows.
