News MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

College Communications @ Fox TV political analyst Tony Snow ’77.

By Jim SWANSBROUGH College Communications

National political analyst Tony Snow ’77 will speak at Davidson during the college’s Homecoming festivities on Saturday, Oct. 2, headlining activities that will appeal not only to alumni, but to the public as well. In addition to traditional receptions for returning alumni and a football game, Davidson’s Alumni Office has scheduled Snow’s lecture, a children’s festival, and a concert by national recording artists “The Indigo Girls.”

Alumni Director Eileen Keeley said, “We always try to program groups and activities that appeal to the alumni. It’s just that this year these groups are nationally prominent.”

Snow’s lecture is free and open to the public, beginning at 10 a.m. in Love Auditorium of Chambers Building. Snow is a 1977 Davidson graduate who majored in philosophy. After receiving his master’s degree in philosophy from the University of Chicago, he traveled abroad to Africa and Moscow. Snow then wrote for several different newspapers across the nation, culminating in 1987 with his appointment as editorial page editor of “The Washington Times.” While in D.C. he took part in a political panel discussion on Fox-TV’s “Off the Record.” In 1991, he was recruited to be chief White House speechwriter for then President George Bush. After Bush’s failed bid for reelection, Snow resumed his newswriting career. He also became involved as writer, correspondent, and host of the successful PBS news special “The New Militant Center.” This led to numerous appearances on shows such as “The McLaughlin Group,” “Crossfire,” and “Good Morning America.” Snow currently hosts the Sunday morning “Fox Morning Show,” hosting guests from across the political spectrum.

Following Snow’s address, Davidson invites parents and children to The Dogwood Dell Festival from noon-2 p.m. behind Martin Chemistry Building. The festival will feature a bluegrass band, stickers and face painting, a caricature artist, magic show, and a wide variety of food. The Wildcat football team will kick off against Guilford College at 2 p.m. in Richardson Stadium, adjacent to the festival. The day’s activities will conclude with a 9 p.m. performance by the nationally recognized band, “The Indigo Girls,” in Belk Arena of the Baker Sports Complex. “The Indigo Girls,” a.k.a. Emily Saliers and Amy Ray, originated in Decatur, Ga. in 1987, and received a 1989 Grammy for “Best Folk Recording.” The two musicians have played for the last three summers on the Lilith Fair tour, and are currently playing across the nation on an independent fall tour. Tickets for the football game are $8 for adults and $4 for children. “The Indigo Girls” concert costs $25. For questions about the lecture or festival, contact Eileen Keeley at 892-2422. Call 1-800-768-CATS for football and concert information and tickets.

Davidson alumnus questions Vince Foster’s death

By Aaron Houck - Staff Writer

When Dr. Gary David Martin ’65 was a senior at Davidson, he wrote a letter to the Davidsonian criticizing the fraternities as “Davidson’s unique caste system.” While the situation at Davidson may have changed, Martin’s rejection of the status quo has not. “I was an independent then, and I’m an independent now,” he told me last Thursday evening when I spoke to him. Martin, an economist in Washington, D.C., contends that Vince Foster was murdered, and has done considerable research to support his claim of a crime and subsequent cover-up. Martin makes no accusations and does not claim to know who killed Foster or why it was done, but he adamantly rejects the idea that it was a suicide. Significant peculiarities of theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Case suggests that there is more to this case than the suicide of a burnt-out Washington insider. For example, there was significantly less blood than usually results from a shot to the head, no bullet was ever found, and Foster’s fingerprints were not found on the weapon. Martin believes a massive government cover-up ensued immediately following the death, even involving major components of the media.

Martin, a resident of Washington, D.C., accepts being labeled a radical, but “in the best sense of the word.” He holds strong beliefs, is largely unconcerned by the general public’s opinion of him, and wants people to pursue the truth and think for themselves. Martin has written many articles and poems criticizing the government and media for trying to mislead the American public. He writes these under the name DCDave and they are available at his website http://thebird.org/host/dcdave. One of his principal causes is the search for truth in the case of the death of Vince Foster.

Vince Foster was the second-ranked person in the White House legal office in the first year of the Clinton administration. He died of a gunshot wound to the head under mysterious circumstances on July 20, 1993, in Fort Marcy Park in Washington, D.C. Though the death was officially ruled a suicide, Martin protests that “all evidence points to murder.”

A note supposedly written by Vince Foster before he died, which officials and news organizations point to as evidence that Foster was depressed, was found to be a forgery by handwriting experts, Martin told me, “and a poor forgery at that!” Questions also circulate concerning the placement of Foster’s body, his mood in the days and hours before his death, the location of papers from his office, and the autopsy. More important to Martin than what names some might call him is that people look at the facts and come to their own conclusions. He urges everyone to look at the website www.fbicover-up.com from which you can download a report by Patrick Knowlton, John Clarke, and Hugh Turley refuting the conclusions of the Starr investigation regarding the Foster death. He feels that exposure to the facts of the case will convince anyone that this is not a case of suicide.

Martin writes, “It never ceases to amaze me that the people at the college where I went would just sit on their hands when the political murder of one of their more illustrious graduates is shabbily covered up.”

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDLESS
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
MELISSA ANN WECASTRIQUE

Copy Editors Extraordinaire
WHITNEY BLAKE
IRENE MIDDLETON

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.