TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

Prof. Ahrensdorf receives Fulbright Fellowship: Latin ambivalence toward liberalism to be studied

COLLEGE RELATIONS

As Latin Americans seek to integrate themselves within the modern world economic and cultural order, must they also lose their souls? If the population embraces an Anglo-American-style work ethic and market-driven competition, will family and intellectual life break down? Will siestas be forsaken for greater efficiency?

Peter Ahrensdorf, associate professor of political science at Davidson College, has received a Fulbright Fellowship to spend a semester during the 1999-2000 academic year in Argentina examining those questions. His proposal, entitled “Alternatives to Liberalism or the End of History?” will investigate the provocative thesis set forth by Francis Fukuyama that liberalism has become the only viable political ideology in the world.

At the same time that he is teaching in Argentina, Ahrensdorf will be studying Latin America’s history of liberalism. As a political theorist, Ahrensdorf believes that study in Argentina will be particularly instructive to his interest in liberalism, because Latin Americans exhibit a thoughtful and incisive ambivalence toward liberalism. On the one hand, they are increasingly convinced that there is no choice but to adopt its tenets. On the other hand, they fear that modernization will undermine or destroy much of what they cherish about their culture, including family, moral and religious life, and that it will impoverish their extraordinarily rich intellectual life, one which has produced, among other things, much of the great world literature of the 20th century.

“It’s an interestingly complicated time to go down there,” Ahrensdorf commented. “This isn’t a debate between two political parties. You find ambivalence within the same individual. The same people who encourage their kids to go into economics and get a business degree abroad are worried that this somehow changes the pace of life, the cohesiveness of family and social life, and the vitality of intellectual life. To a certain extent it’s a concern about becoming culturally indistinguishable from the United States, especially at a time when American culture does not seem so very attractive.”

He continued, “For example, grandparents are an important center of Latin American society, and people are concerned that modernization might mean that the family no longer gathers anymore every Sunday at the grandparents’ home. They would lose more than just a social fabric, because those gatherings are also an occasion for intellectual debate. Similarly, the siesta isn’t just a nap, it’s also a big, important part of the day. Traditions like going to church and spending time in cafés are arguably inefficient economically, but those are the stuff of life in Latin America.”

Ahrensdorf plans to enter the debate by teaching a course about “Liberalism and Its Critics” to students at the University of Buenos Aires. He has a long-standing academic interest in such questions of political philosophy that is demonstrated in articles he has written for professional journals and in his forthcoming, co-authored book, “Justice Among Nations: On the Moral Basis of Power and Peace.” As a traditional intellectual center of Latin America, Argentina has a rich history of debates about the strengths and weaknesses of liberalism, as well as a relatively recent experience with a variety of regimes, from...Liberalism and undemocratic to liberal and democratic. In addition, Argentina will hold presidential elections this year, and its citizens are in the throes of debate over such issues as term limits and the relation between civilian and military authority. In his course, Ahrensdorf will teach Argentinean students how political philosophers through the ages have approached those issues. He will also bring considerable personal experience to his project. He belongs to a Spanish-speaking parish of the Catholic Church in Charlotte and has witnessed the concern over liberalism among Latinos. 

Ahrensdorf believes that the shifting nature of religions there is a key feature of the theoretical debate about liberalism in Latin America. He hopes to use his studies as the basis for a journal article on the subject. In the end, he hopes to explore the possibility of versions of liberalism which might successfully address the concerns Latinos raise, especially since those concerns are widely felt throughout the modern world. He said, “Perhaps there’s an alternative to the contemporary American model for a liberal society, a model not only for Latinos but for all human beings, which would permit a society to thrive intellectually and spiritually while also prospering economically.”

As a traditional intellectual center of Latin America, Argentina has a rich history of debates about the strengths and weaknesses of liberalism. “They understand the drawback of not having economic advancement, but they’re worried about the cultural price they may have to pay to get it,” he said. In addition, his wife is Bolivian, and he has spent a great deal of time in Bolivia over the past few years. He also grew up in a Spanish-speaking household (his mother is Filipina), spent two years in Paraguay as a child, studied at the University of Valencia in Spain, and speaks fluent Spanish.

At the same time that he is teaching in Argentina, Ahrensdorf will be studying Latin America’s history of liberalism. One outstanding consideration will be the role of religion in Latin American politics. The growth of liberalism there is being accompanied by the weakening of Catholicism and an outstanding growth in the wide variety of individualistic or materialistic religions.

Ahrensdorf is a summa cum laude political science graduate of Yale University and received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1989. He began teaching at Davidson that same year and currently holds the title of Associate Professor of Political Science and Humanities, as well as Adjunct Professor of Classics. He has published widely on the subject of ancient Greek political theory and teaches in the areas of classical and modern political theory, contemporary political ideologies, American political thought, religion and politics, and theories of international relations.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
MIKE AN
ALISON K
Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBO
News Editor
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Sports Editor
SCOTT REEDER
Op-Ed Editors
SEYH ALLEY
EUGENIA LEATH
Circulation Manager
MELISSA ANN
Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD
Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY
Cartoonist
NATHANIEL LOTZE

Founded in 1914
“Oak Row’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.