THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1999

Kosmalski, Marshall dominate SoCon posts
By Mike ANDERSON
The Wildcat Report

In two exhibition contests, the luminary senior duo of Landry Kosmalski and Stephen Marshall combined for 59 points and 25
rebounds. Such production—30 points and 12.5 rebounds a game—out of a pair of post players is impressive to say the
least. But it’s downright astounding, considering that one of them was in street clothes.

While Marshall missed both contests nursing a “day-to-day” back injury, Kosmalski has more than compensated for his collaborator’s absence, putting
up amazing numbers amidst the team’s mediocre early-season performances. Major contributors to the Wildcat program since their freshman season, the
duo enters their culminating campaign as perhaps the best post tandem in the Southern Conference.

The 6-foot-7 son of a former NBA hoopster, “Kosmo” (or “L-Train,” or “Special K,” if you prefer) was an immediate
force in the Southern Conference. With an average of 13.2 points and 7.6 rebounds per contest, Kosmalski earned Freshman of
the Year honors in 1996-97. Those numbers, good enough for 13th and second best in the league, respectively, earned the
freshman from Bedford, Texas, a starting spot in his first game. And he hasn’t looked back. Kosmalski has started 84
of Davidson’s 85 games since 1996 (including the past 59 straight), tallying a dozen points and seven boards per game.
After a pre-season knee injury mired his sophomore season, the Texan bounced back with a

@ Stephen Marshall (above) and his senior cohort Landry Kosmalski are the only two experienced players the Wildcats return to
the frontcourt this season, and their talent and leadership will be critical to this year’s campaign to capture the Southern
Conference crown.

Win or no win, Wildcats still have work to do
By Michael J. Kruse
The Wildcat Report

Coach Bob McKillop called his team’s 91-84 exhibition loss Nov. 1 against the Five-Star Hawks a C-plus performance. So what
does that make last Wednesday’s 102-87 victory over the Charlotte Royals? Try an F.

“I think we had a failing grade tonight,” McKillop said. “Our offense is very effective when we don’t turn the
ball over — but not when we do turn it over. And defensively, we fouled far too much. We just
weren’t ready too much.”

The Wildcats let the Charlotte-based AAU team shoot 47.5 percent from the floor and 47.1 percent from the three-point line.
They also lost the rebounding battle 39-34.

One bright spot for Davidson: In his second straight standout preseason performance, senior forward Landry Kosmalski scored 29 points and
added six rebounds and five assists in 32 minutes. He shot 10-for-13 from the floor. Michael Bree played a solid
25 minutes, contributing 14 points and eight assists, while sophomore dynamo Brian Turner chipped in with 10 points.

But none of that seemed to matter. A disgusted McKillop called for a 7:00 practice the next day.

The Wildcats’ season opener against Siena in the Preseason NIT looms tonight at the Pepsi Arena in Albany, N.Y.

“We need to have some good practices to get everybody on the same page,” Kosmalski said. “Whatever the problem is,
we’ve got to get in game shape.” And fast.

Notes: Peter Anderer got his first minutes as a Wildcat, entering the game with 1:30 to go in the first
half. The 6-foot-1 guard from New York City scored his first collegiate points on a pair of free throws with
2:28 remaining. ... Davidson had assists on 29 of its 37 baskets. Bree led with eight. Davor Halbauer had six.
Jeff Bergmann added three. ... Stephen Marshall and Emeka Erege each sat out again due to injuries. Marshall should be
back for Siena; Erege’s status is a bit more iffy.

Kruse is the editor of The Wildcat Report, a monthly newsletter that covers Davidson basketball.Powerful junior campaign that saw him
rank second amongst Southern Conference rebounders. Kosmalski’s junior crusade earned him some glowing pre-season reviews at October’s pre-season media day.
Southern Conference coaches dubbed him among the league’s best rebounders, clutch players, and pro-prospects. Wofford’s junior guard Ian Chadwick edged
out the senior Wildcat by a single vote for “best all-around player” honors. Most remarkably, Lindy's College Basketball dubbed Kosmalski
the 18th-best small forward in Division I basketball.

A product of Trinity High School in Bedford, Texas, Kosmalski combines dominance in the paint with an ability to sharp-shoot
from the arc. But his most valuable talents seem to lie in the intangibles—including an on-the-court brilliance that is matched
by an impressive 3.3 GPA in the classroom. “Landry definitely has an inside-outside game,” notes coach Jason Zimmerman. “But Landry’s
just going to will it—he will make the shot, he will get the rebound, he will make the post move.
He’s very confident he can do all that.” Classmate Jeff Bergmann agrees, “With Landry, it’s just his mental outlook. He’s
a thinker. He realizes his capabilities and shortcomings. And he’ll use what he’s got to gain the advantage. Plus, he’s
just so tough.”

The other half of this 1-2 punch hails from Midlothian, Virginia. A 6-foot-8, 225-pound center, Stephen Marshall is perhaps as
versatile a big man as Davidson has seen in years. A powerful athlete with solid post moves, Marshall infuriates opposing
defenses with a 42-percent clip from behind-the-arc and a team-high 76.4-percent free-throw rate. “Stephen is very versatile,” says Zimmerman. “It’s
hard to guard him because of his inside-outside ability.”

Marshall got off to a slow start as a Wildcat, sidelined by an illness that stripped him of 30 pounds
during his freshman season. After a sprained ankle compounded his woes, Marshall finally hit his stride as the Wildcats won
seven straight conference contests in February of 1996. Marshall showed an uncanny ability to step up for big games during
his sophomore season. He notched 20 points and 14 boards against Duke in the team’s opener, and matched that clutch
performance against Appalachian with another 20 on January 31 of that season. Marshall upped his performance once again for the
Southern Conference semi-final, tossing in a career-high 27 against the Citadel. That trend continued into his junior campaign, as Marshall
didn’t miss a shot while scoring 18 points against division foe Appalachian in the team’s second contest. “Stephen's such a
threat,” says teammate Jeff Bergmann. “He’s got an uncanny ability to score. He’s so poised in the post. That’s always
been there.”

After a productive summer training regimen in the Charlotte Pro-Am, Marshall hopes to add “consistency” to the long list of
complimentary adjectives associated with his name. “Stephen’s focus during the off-season has been to improve his ability to be productive
on a more consistent basis,” says McKillop. “He is looking at his senior year as an opportunity to put all
the pieces together.”

Kosmalski and Marshall were dancing the Big Dance in March of their sophomore campaign. And Davidson’s disappointing showing in last
season’s conference tournament has made them all the more hungry—as the music continues to echo tauntingly in the back of
their minds. “We've been a part of successful teams,” acknowledges Marshall. “We know what it takes to win.”

“In four years,” notes Zimmerman, “they’ve taken everything they’ve learned and now they’re ready to have one final go at
it. They want Davidson to be the best that it can be.”

This story originally appeared in The Wildcat Report, a monthly publication that covers Davidson basketball.

Jason Dickens, a freshman forward from Tucson, Arizona, tries to split two Charlotte Royals’ defenders as he drives to the
paint during last weekend’s final exhibition game in Belk Arena.
