By HEATHER Hire
Staff Writer

Information Technology Services (ITS) will soon be changing the email service for both faculty and students from Pollux to a
new, more up-to-date system — Microsoft Exchange and Outlook. Director of Computing Support Lydia Lorenzin said that the Pollux server,
which currently serves all faculty and students, is a number of years old. Given the choice of whether to replace
Pollux or renew some costly parts of it, the ITS was influenced by several factors. The company that made Pollux
went out of business, making it difficult to replace parts. Also, all Pollux files and email will be deleted after
commencement. Therefore, people wishing to keep Pollux files or email must copy them on a disk, print them out on
paper, or store them on their campus network space on Louise so that the files or emails can be transferred
to the new system. Instructions on how to do this are also available from ITS.

The new system, Outlook, will rectify the communication problems created by the different systems used by the administrative staff and
faculty and students. Students will be able to receive attachments, and public folders will take the place of notes conferences.
Students will also be able to check their Davidson email over the summer with Internet access at home or abroad.
The new system has several useful features for students, faculty, and administration. For example, users can sort messages according to
their senders, and calendars are available for users to plan their daily activities. Furthermore, Outlook will remedy Pollux’s problem of
taking only 12 characters for the letters of a last name. The new system will allow for the first two
letters of a person’s first name and his or her entire last name.

The changes will take place soon. All students and faculty will be moved by June, but if desired, students or
faculty can switch now. The ITS has already held demonstrations to help acquaint its new users, and it will hold
more if needed. Students, faculty, and the administration can request to be switched to the new system by emailing the
help desk at helpdesk@davidson.edu. Information about how to use Microsoft Outlook is available to everyone from the ITS computing labs
or the web page that ITS has designed. The student employees of the ITS have already been on the system,
and Lorenzin believes they are more willing to transition. First, the new system will rectify the communication problems created by
the different systems used by the administrative staff and faculty and students. Second, students will be able to receive attachments.
Public folders will take the place of notes conferences. Third, students will be able to check their Davidson email over
the summer with Internet access at home or abroad. Fourth, the new system has several useful features for students, faculty,
and administration. For example, users can sort messages according to their senders. Also, calendars are available for users to plan
their daily activities. Furthermore, Outlook will remedy Pollux’s problem of taking only 12 characters for the letters of a last
name. The new system will allow for the first two letters of a person’s first name and his or her
entire last name.

Students who are going abroad next fall should move to the new server before commencement if they plan to use
their email services while they are off-campus. Davidson students who want to use their email services over the summer should
also switch before commencement. Anyone who has questions can email the help desk at helpdesk@davidson.edu.

Class Officers elected for 1999-2000 year
By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

The new SGA senators and honor council members were elected on Monday, March 22nd. The new President for the class
of 2000 is Bill Stoops, and the senior senators are Julie Chevalier and Whitney Frazier. The new President for the
class of 2001 is Monica Martinez, and the sena-The new senators are Laura McDonnell and Jehan Shamsid-Deen. The new President
of the class of 2002 is Joey Harris, and the new senators are Grant Bleecher and Wendy Legerton. New Honor
Council Members were also elected. For the class of 2000, Sarah Davis and Ana Rosa Garcia de la Torre were
elected. Winifred Corrigan, Noel McFadden-Gerber, and Ksenija Milutinovic are the new Honor Council members for the class of 2001. The
new Honor Council Members for the class of 2002 are Carrie Frazier, Aditi Sethi, and Mary Kat White. Randy Skattum
'01, the independent Senator, and Matt West '01 ran the elections. This year, one of their main objectives was to
encourage a large voter turnout. They put up 350 posters around campus and sent out voice mails and emails to
encourage students to vote. Skattum thanked everyone who helped organize the elections, saying, “Without you guys, we wouldn’t have actually
had elections.” Despite the efforts to encourage voting, only 42.9% of the student body participated in the elections. In the
general election, the rising sophomore class boasted the highest voter turnout with 50.9% of the class voting. They were followed
by the rising juniors, 40.6% of whom voted. In the rising senior class, 35.9% of the class voted. About half
of the students who participated in elections voted in chambers, accounting for 51.3% of the vote, and the rest of
the vote, 48.7%, occurred in the Commons. Skattum explained that there could be several reasons for the low voter turnout.
With no campus-wide offices at stake, some students may have considered these elections to be less significant. Also, because the
large majority of candidates were for Honor Council, they were unable to campaign, which may have resulted in a lower
level of student awareness of the elections on campus. Long lines for voting may have been another factor that affected
the student participation in the elections. After the elections, the new Presidents offered suggestions to encourage more voting. Monica Martinez
suggested that the duration of the campaign period should be a week rather than a weekend. According to SGA by-laws,
however, the dates for elections are set. Julie Chevalier suggested that the time period for the campaign should be extended.
In order to initiate such an extension, an amendment would have to be made to the SGA by-laws. Jehan Shamsid-Deen
offered an alternative solution to the low voter turnout, suggesting that students who work the election tables be more “pro-active”
by soliciting students to vote.

By Bill Jackson '57
Guest writer

On March 19, the Society for History in the Federal Government awarded its 1998 Pendleton Prize to Dr. Hal Ford,
a former professor of political science at Davidson. Ford received the award for his book, “CIA and Vietnam Policymakers,” published
recently by the CIA’s Center for the Study of Intelligence. Based on his own experience and on intelligence documents previously
classified, Ford’s book examines the judgments, good and bad, that CIA officers gave to senior Kennedy and Johnson administration policymakers
during three crucial episodes in the Vietnam War, 1962-1968. The book also assesses the impact that those inputs did or
did not have on policy decisions. A copy of Ford’s book is available in the Davidson library. Ford and his
wife Jo live in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
