Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

6220: THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fading thoughts. I smile, excited by the prospects of my bed. A warm breeze gently stirs the blinds, which rustle. Gurgling pops of water rush through the pipes, shuttering from the bathroom. My pillow rushes upwards, catching me. A silence envelopes. I roll; the bed accepts the weight of my body. The covers tightly wrap around my frame, a security in their mass. Images flash and fade with no true coherence. Memories of the past and thoughts of the future coalesce, no attention given to their linear distances. My mind floats from one room to another, clicking switches off as it leaves.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Use your car

What’s new in Davidson this week? Not much. Lunar Luau’s new locale siphoned off some of the event’s usual charm, although students did get to douse the college president, watch people juggle fire, and jump around in some big inflatable toys. Good clean fun, but not enough to constitute an entire editorial. We shall instead discuss having a car on campus, and the crises involved therein.

I have experienced both life with and life without my own private mode of transportation as a Davidson student. Freshmen are often told that having a car at Davidson is not necessary. Bumming rides is easy, especially within the tight-knit confines of the freshman hall. While this is true, it is a luxury that most students seem to have, and those that have it will tell you that they couldn’t live without it. Are they spoiled? Only somewhat.

It’s 2:30 a.m. and you’ve got a 10:30 a.m. test to be studying for. Lights have been out in Davidson for ninety minutes. There’s a beacon of green and gold known as Denny’s at Exit 28, well within your reach if you can get there. How important is that car now? Or would you simply refuse to drive it, because you’d lose your awesome parking space?

This is a school-wide (if not worldwide) phenomenon: using one’s superior parking space as an element of reasoning in deciding whether or not to use one’s car. Am I the only person who does not understand this? Am I on crack here? I contend that the close proximity of one’s vehicle is never a reason to avoid driving it. Many students subscribe to the “But I'll lose my space!” philosophy, but I find it counterintuitive and wrong. I challenge anyone to refute me on this issue.

What are the advantages of having a good (i.e., nearby to one’s dormitory, apartment building, etc.) parking space? I can think of two obvious ones:
1.) The walking distance from your car to your building of choice is short.
2.) The walking distance from your building of choice back to your car is short.

There are also residual benefits, such as the rapture and pride you feel from just seeing your car sitting in its swell location, or merely picturing it in your mind. When pondering over whether or not to move your car and thereby risking the loss of your happy parking space, you must remember that half of the benefits, namely Reason #1 (above), have already been spent. When you and your roommate are heading off to Lancaster’s on a Friday night and you’re trying to decide whose car to drive, is it more logical to drive his car (parked in satellite), or yours (within spitting distance)? Please say yours. Then you can cash in on Reason #2 (above). Your love affair with your killer space is then over.If there weren’t any good spaces left when you returned from Lancaster’s, would you then say, “[Expletive]! I should never have moved my car”? I hope not. By using your well-parked car, you are not losing that parking space, you are using that space (see Reason #2). The very idea that having a decent space should render your car undriveable . . . I thought Davidson students were supposed to be smart. If you honestly think that having a good parking space gives solid grounds for avoiding driving your car, email your line of reasoning to davidsonian@davidson.edu. In the meantime, you can start building your own personal utopia, where everyone owns a car, and everyone’s parking spaces are so good that no one ever drives anywhere. Not even to Denny’s.

This week’s Editorials are S.O(pi)nions

My Day

This week’s paper, but my day started out bad and has slowly but surely gotten much worse. Right now, I’m sitting at my computer writing this column while I’m icing my groin. It was injured while I was cardio kickboxing. To make things worse, my three-on-three got our collective asses whooped. I think the score was 22 to 16 in the end, but when our opponents brought out the blind penguins after making the 14-point lead . . . it was done.

I read an email from an ex-girlfriend of mine and she’s seriously dating a Yankee. Not that I care what she does, I’m a buddy now, but I’m replaced by a YANKEE? That’s like trading John Elway for Kerry Collins!

I had a well thought-out plan to put in this column, but I’ve lost my car keys too. Isn’t it great how when it rains it pours? I was typing something up for a class and I did my usual hourly pocket/key check . . . no keys! Alarmed, I searched my seating area (unfortunately, it’s surrounded by God-knows-what) and I had to dig my way to the floor. On the bright side, I found Jimmy Hoffa, my long-lost uncle, and 24 empty beer cans. Who drank that beer, I know not. Anyway, I then hit all the classrooms I use on Tuesday and Thursday . . . again WHIFF! So, I walked dejectedly ALL THE WAY out to where my car is parked and looked inside . . . Strike three, I’m out. So, now I sit here, tired, beaten, crippled, and without my car keys. And "Dust in the Wind" just came on my MP3 list. If I was a horse, I would have been shot by now.

Moving on, I can’t remember my original plan for the column, so I'll discuss something that’s bugging me (even though I know there’s no reasonable solution): parking, or lack thereof. Yesterday, I delayed leaving to get my hair cut for two hours because of my “primo” parking behind Lingle. I'd like to think I’m not lazy, and not a royal ass, but could we not blow something up and make a new parking lot? I mean, think about it, everybody loves to see stuff blow up, why do you think Jerry Springer is still on TV? The educational value? Hell, in my home state of South Carolina, one of the biggest growth industries is fireworks! Where else can you buy the Panther Rocket Assault Pack? I’m pretty sure some of that stuff I blew up last year is surplus Cold War weapons material.

Well, I need to get some more ice and break into my own damn car and I hope my keys are in there. Wish me luck, I’ll see y’all later.

Jimmy Burford ’02