- By ALISON KALETZKY, Sports Editor

N.C. State 7, Davidson 2

The 2-1 Wildcats entered their match against N.C. State hoping for an upset, but instead they were handed a tough 7-2 defeat. The ‘Cats’ #1 seed, senior Dana Casner, earned the lone singles victory of the day, defeating Nina Bonacic 6-4, 6-4. Fellow senior and #2 seed Amber Bradford nearly took her match to a third set but fell 7-5 in the second-set tiebreaker. Davidson’s third through sixth seeds all fell in straight sets. In doubles play, the second-seeded team of senior Claire Cheatwood and freshman Elizabeth Moreno lost a competitive pro-set 8-5, while the teams of Casner/Bradford and Clara Marks/Forbes Thompson fell by identical 8-2 scores.

Wofford 2, Davidson 7

After the tough loss to N.C. State, the Cats turned things around versus conference foe Wofford. In singles competition, #4 seed, freshman Forbes Thompson, won a hard-fought three-setter. Thompson dropped the first set 6-2 but rallied to claim the next two sets 6-4 and 6-3. Sophomore Brenna Tindall battled her way through a tough match at the #4 spot, dropping the first set in a tiebreaker eight points to six. Tindall fought back to take the second set 6-4 but ultimately fell 6-1 in the third. Seniors Dana Casner, Amber Bradford, and Clara Marks all won their singles matches, while senior Claire Cheatwood fell in two sets. The Wildcats were up four matches to two heading into the doubles. Davidson’s solid doubles play secured the victory as the teams of Casner/Bradford, Cheatwood/Moreno, and Thompson/Leuner all cruised through their matches. The victory against Wofford improved the Cats' overall record to 3-2.

UNCG 6, Davidson 3

In their second consecutive conference match, the Wildcats played their toughest match of the season thus far. Three of the six singles matches went to three sets, while all three doubles contests were very close. Dana Casner battled her way to a tough victory at the #1 spot. The senior took the first set 6-3 but dropped the second in a tiebreaker. Casner then rallied back to win the deciding set 6-3. #2 seed Amber Bradford also triumphed in a close three-setter. She claimed the first set 6-3, dropped the second 3-6, but fought her way to a 7-5 victory in the third set. Senior Clara Marks and freshman Kelly Cantrell also played extremely competitive matches, as Marks fell 6-4 in the third set of her match and Cantrell dropped the first set of her contest 8-6 in the tiebreaker en route to a 7-6, 6-2 loss. In order for Davidson to claim the overall victory, they would have to win all three doubles matches. The team of Casner and Bradford got the Cats off on the right foot, winning their match 8-3. Cheatwood and Moreno looked like they might add another victory but fell 9-8. Marks and Thompson lost 8-5.

Western Michigan 6, Davidson 3

#1 seed Dana Casner and #5 seed freshman Elizabeth Moreno easily won their respective singles matches in straight sets. Unfortunately for the Cats, that was as good as it got, as Western Michigan claimed the remaining four singles contests. Heading into doubles play, the Cats were down 4-2 but could still claim the overall victory with three doubles wins. Casner and Bradford forced Western Michigan into a tiebreaker after their pro-set was tied at eight but fell seven points to five. The teams of Moreno/Cheatwood and Thompson/Marks dropped close matches 8-6 and 8-5 respectively.

College of Charleston 5, Davidson 1

Davidson returned to conference competition against the College of Charleston. Davidson’s 5-1 loss does not reflect the match itself, as five of the six matches went to three sets. Dana Casner dropped the first set at the #1 slot but stormed back to take the next two sets by decisive 6-1 and 6-0 scores. #2 seed Amber Bradford won the first set of her match against Liorah Levin of Charleston. The next two sets were very competitive, but Bradford eventually fell 6-4, 6-4. At the #4 and #5 spots, freshmen Forbes Thompson and Elizabeth Moreno both dropped the first sets of their respective matches 6-4. Thompson fought back to take the second set of her match.Match 6-2, but eventually fell 6-4 in the third. Moreno lost her last set 6-2. Senior Clara Marks was also a victim of a three-set defeat as she fell 4-6, 6-1, 6-3. Following the match, the Cats stood at 3-5.

WILDCAT TRACK
TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

The senior is pitching in strong performances with freshman doubles partner Elizabeth Moreno.

Men’s relay team breaks school record
By Keith Gordon
Sports Writer

The men’s track team traveled to Raleigh, NC this past weekend to compete in the NC State Raleigh Relays, one of the biggest meets of the year in the southeast. Although hampered by cold and rainy conditions, the men posted yet another extraordinary performance in what may be the best track season in years. The 4x800m relay team’s time of 7:52.04 broke the old record by nearly seven seconds. Keith Chapman led off the team with a strong start, despite being boxed in the majority of his leg. He handed off to freshman Jay Jahnes, who ran a solid 1:57.4 split before giving the baton to senior Davey Bacon. Dan Gibson received the baton from Bacon and anchored the team to the relay record with a blazing 1:55.1 split, bringing home another new school record and an impressive finish to the race.

Also, the 4x200m relay team barely missed the school record. The collective efforts of Roland Williams, Michael Albert, Stan Baker, and Addam Marcotte produced a time of 1:31.69, one of the top-ten fastest times in Wildcat track history. The 4x100m team of Baker, Gray Austin, Albert, and Williams sprinted their way to a time of 43.71, improving on their time from earlier in the season. The 4x400m team of Williams, Chapman, Gibson, and Albert had to compete with 16 other schools in their heat, yet still ran an incredible 3:28.12 despite a tight, physical race.

Junior Pat Burchett smashed his personal record in the 5000m, recording a time of 15:27.09, bettering his previous best by over 21 seconds. The 1500m crew also performed extremely well with Thomas McElveen’s time of 4:11.24 leading the way. Also in the 1500m, Freshman Paul Irwin had a personal record, running 4:14.65 behind McElveen. Brent Ferrell ran the 3000m steeplechase in 9:29.32, chopping over ten seconds off his time from two weeks ago. Ferrell’s time missed the steeple school record by only three seconds.

The road to the 1999 Southern Conference Championships in Johnson City, TN does not get any easier for the men next week, as they travel to the prestigious Duke Invitational in Durham, NC.

Women’s track competes at Raleigh Relays
By Smyth Bitter
Sports Writer

The campus of North Carolina State University was brimming with over 2000 track and field athletes this past Friday and Saturday. Davidson joined 80 other college teams, including powerhouses Michigan State, Duke, and Penn State in the 27th Annual Raleigh Relays. Cold and rainy weather conditions delayed the events on Friday evening, but Davidson seniors Jamilah Sawyer and Jenny Klotz didn’t let the weather inhibit their solid performances. In the 400-meter hurdles, Sawyer turned in a time of 69.40, while Klotz enjoyed yet another strong 5000m race with a time of 20:42.

Kicking off Saturday morning's events was senior Katie Lannon in the 3000 meters. Lannon tied her best time of the season with a 12:03. Freshman Lucy Billingsley and sophomore Smyth Bitter soon followed in the 1500 meters. Bitter placed 16th out of 112 runners with her time of 4:41.18, the second fastest time in Davidson’s history. In her 1500m debut, Billingsley raced an impressive time of 4:54.01. The Wildcats' 4x800 meter relay team capped off the day’s performances. The team, consisting of sophomore Clare Frey, freshman Rhiannon Ollis, Billingsley, and Bitter, finished with a time of 9:40.44, beating out N.C. State, East Carolina, and Providence. Their performance also shattered the five-year-old school record by nine seconds.

“This meet showed us the best track and field competition we have ever been up against,” said Coach Thomas Cason. “Our girls really stepped it up and performed great. We did not back down from the competition and that will pay off in a few weeks at the conference meet.” Competing as an unattached runner, Cason also had an impressive showing in the men’s steeplechase. Cason ran a time of 9:14 en route to a fifth-place finish.

On Easter weekend, the Wildcats will travel to Durham, NC for the Duke Invitational.