THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Derek Politzer
Staff Writer

2-19-99:

International:
In light of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic’s refusal to cooperate in the latest round of peace talks over the conflict
in Kosovo, President Clinton sent a strong warning to the Yugoslav leader. If Milosevic fails to accept a peace agreement
by continuing to snub the U.S. mediator and refusing to allow foreign peacekeepers into the country, Clinton said that NATO
is prepared to strike Serbia and to force Milosevic into compliance.

Domestic:
Former Presidential candidate Bob Dole will appear in advertisements for Viagra, urging people to "get help for the problem." First
lady Hillary Clinton considers a bid for New York Senator Moynihan’s seat in the 2000 elections.

1999 Phi Beta Kappa inductees
Members of the class of 1999 who have accepted election to Phi Beta Kappa (Gamma of N.C. Chapter) and who
will be initiated on Sunday, 14 March. They were elected to Membership-in-Course on 26 January 1999.

Merrit Gordon ABNEY
Elisabeth Jane MALPHURS
Burcu ALDOGAN
Jennifer Leigh MARENBERG
Christina L. BIEDERMANN
Matthew Stephen McKILLOP
William Burton BRADSHAW II
Dalton Singletary MCLEAN
Richard Victor BRAND
Rebecca Joy MONTAGUE
Omer Lee BURNETT III
Jack Osborn MORSE, Jr.

2-18-99:

International:
Kurds ended their siege of the Greek Embassy in London today. Sporadic protests over Turkey’s capture of PKK guerrilla leader
Abdullah Ocalan continued throughout Europe.

Domestic:
Texan John King, who is accused of dragging a black man to his death, is linked to a white supremacist
group, which involves racially motivated killing as a gang initiation rite.

2-17-99:

International:
Turkey ignored a wave of global protests around the world and continued its assault on Kurdish separatists in northern Iraq.
The U.S. moved 51 military aircraft into the Balkans region to prepare for possible air strikes against Serbia as the
Saturday deadline for a peace accord nears.

2-16-99:

International:
Six car bombs shake Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan; “religious fanatics,” according to President Islam Karimov, are responsible for this
terrorist attack which was aimed at destabilizing the regime and which killed 16 people. After capturing PKK rebel leader Abdullah
Ocalan in Kenya, Turkey vowed it would ensure that he gets a fair trial.

Domestic:
New Orleans city officials credited this year’s Mardi Gras as the biggest in the city’s history.

2-15-99:

International:
As U.S. military jets pounded Iraqi missile defense sites in response to Iraqi aggression, Iraq has renewed its threats to
attack U.S. bases in Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait. President Clinton offered Mexico his support for its most recent efforts
to fight the drug trade.

Domestic:
According to a recent poll, fewer and fewer teens are aspiring to become president.

2-14-99:

International:
Nigeria’s transition to civilian rule moved forward today, as the People’s Democratic Party decided on a candidate for the February
27 presidential election.

Domestic:
Senior U.S. Senators are urging reconciliation and are signaling a desire to "move on" from the Senate impeachment hearings.

2-13-99:

International:
The U.S. is investigating reports that international terrorist Osama bin Laden has left Afghanistan. Bin Laden might be in Iraq,
Somalia, Chechnya, or still in Afghanistan. President Clinton has agreed to send 4,000 U.S. troops to Kosovo to help monitor
any future peace accord.

Domestic:
A CBS news poll indicates that 64 percent of Americans support Clinton’s acquittal.

2-12-99:

Domestic:
The U.S. Senate voted to acquit President Clinton of all impeachment charges by a significant margin. Out of the 67
votes needed to remove him from office, 45 voted for removal on grounds of perjury and 50 on grounds of
obstruction of justice.

Union sponsors Solidarity Week
Continued from page 1 in Norfolk, Virginia that serves meals to the poor. The houseruns purely on donations and invites
homeless people to live there as well. The Union also presented the movie “Smoke Signals” last week in conjunction with
Solidarity Week. The movie deals with the story of two Native American boys on a journey in Arizona. On Friday
afternoon, a Wofa drum and dance workshop was held in the Morrison Room. That night, those who attended the workshop
gave a Wofa drum and dance performance in the Outpost.

On Saturday morning, Multicultural Kids Day was held in Johnston Gym, coordinated by Dalia Abu-Dayyeh ’01. The International Students’ Association
funded the event, and their president, Zhenya Arutyunyan ’00, helped plan many of the activities. Around 40 kids from neighboring
elementary schools showed up for the event, and about 20 Davidson students assisted with the activities. Each child was paired
with a Davidson student for the morning. The kids went around in groups to different stations, each representing a region
or culture of the world. They made a craft for every ethnic station, such as Vietnamese blue dragons and Chippewa
Native American dream catchers. At the end of the morning, all the children came together for a final game called
“Ruler of the Sea.” The parents of the children were then invited back for a Dahn meditation performance and an
African drum and dance presentation. A flag procession from countries around the world was also held.

Abu-Dayyeh said, “A broad range of Davidson students helped out, from Patterson Court goers to international students. It was a
nice mixture of people. We had as much if not more fun than the kids did.” This is Abu-Dayyeh’s second
year coordinating such an event at Davidson, but she originally started doing a similar project in high school in the
Palestinian Authority. She said, “I have this belief that if you teach children to celebrate diversity now, when they are
older it will impact their lives. This event opened up their eyes and hearts to another culture, which is what
I wanted to achieve. A lot of the children said, ‘I want to go visit your country.’”

Aycock said, “I hope people will understand the point of Solidarity Week is not to be overwhelmed with the world’s
problems. The process of the week is to present small goals and steps people can make to change attitudes towards
community, race, wealth, and privilege.”

Solidarity Week also included Aukram Burton’s photography exhibit in the College Union. The exhibit, entitled “Images from Nigeria,” ended. The
week concluded on Sunday night with a community BBQ dinner and cultural talent show at the Ada Jenkins Center.

Elizabeth Wendell CANFIELD
John Francis PAULAS
Toh Hean CH’NG
Andrew Stark PRESTON
Frances Marie CLEMENT
Jason Emerson PRINCE
Clay Matthew COFER
Nancy Katherine PRITCHETT
Loraine Elizabeth COOK
Phillip Ould RAWLINGS, Jr.
Elizabeth Guion DAVIS
Lowell Yvonne Mettetal RAYBURN
Elizabeth Angela DeWITT
Grace Christian ROBINSON
Stephanie Ann EICHENBRENNER
Emily Elizabeth SETINA
Carolyn Alethea FIXEL
John Frederick SHAW
Scott Christopher GEIER
Brett Pagenstecher SIMPSON
Brent Douglas GILBERT
Jonathan Eric SIPLING
Elizabeth Coleman GREEN
Claire Nicole SISCO
Shannon O’Brien HOWLAND
Benjamin Ryan SMOAK
Tan Hugh HUMMEL
Margaret Halsey TALBOT
Emily A. KATZFEY
Christopher Allen THUNBERG
Jennifer Ann KAZMAREK
Lindsay McCollurh TRAYLOR
Rebecca Reich LATANICH
Natasha Balendu VASAVADA
June Hui Min LEE
Jeffrey Michael WALDMAN
Andrew Gordon LETIZIA
Michael Chad WELLMON
Richard Andrew LINDSEY
Kelly Elizabeth WESTBROOK

Stop by the Home Economist for some healthy snack alternatives.
Fresh Fruit • All Natural Yogurt
Bulk Snack Mixes • Chips & Dips
Ready Made Gourmet Sandwiches • Natural Sodas
Specialty Foods & More!
10% off with Student ID on Sundays
WE’RE LOCATED IN SADLER SQUARE SHOPPING CENTER AT 261 GRIFFITH ST.
