‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

Scorpio (October 23 - November 21)
Make a surprise appearance on the 6th. Watch out for diamonds, seashells, and premature hair loss.

Sagittarius (November 22 - December 20)
Sagittarius finds new luck in love. Be sure and purchase zodiac-themed clothing and beachwear because it is all the rage in Europe. Remember to wear sunscreen and stay away from phyllo dough, pastries, and soft drinks on the 20th.

Capricorn (December 21 - January 19)
Jilted in love, Capricorn will come out on top this week. Start anew by cleaning your room and taking inventory of unwanted clothing/relics of the past. Stay low and keep your cool on the 26th. You'll be glad you did.

Aquarius (January 20 - February 17)
Aquarians find themselves in aqueous environments. From tidal pools to canoe trips, your prowess in outdoor adventure is far from aegis. Remember to have a hard spine and to give others the benefit of the doubt.

Pisces (February 18 - March 20)
Spunky Pisces is up and about and raring to go. Major themes this week include writing, correspondence, and decision-making. Congratulations Pisces, your independent nature keeps you laughing and on top of life, but tendencies to be a doormat persist. Rectify them as soon as possible.

ARTS & LIVING

TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1999

“Cast Iron Filter” packs the 900 Room for premiere album release

By Seth Davis
Arts & Living Editor

“Cast Iron Filter” is the band in ties. The three-person band came to their CD release concert last week clad in style, a la Robert Palmer (not to suggest that “Cast Iron Filter” sounds at all like the 80s rocker). Their sound is a combination of Dustin Edge’s unique vocals and guitar (interspersed with harmonica), Randy Culbertson’s vocals and guitar, and Mike Orlando’s banjo, guitar, and mandolin.

Fans who arrived late to the show were met with a packed 900 Room and a polite insistence that they had to wait to get in. Lines formed outside the 900 Room, which was filled to the limit of fire code regulations. From outside, though, the band could be heard if not seen, and a number of fans spent the night sitting outside simply listening.

They were treated to an entertaining performance, hampered only at the end of the show by the failure of some of the speakers. Despite this minor setback, the band finished the show strongly. Their performance highlighted the band’s greatest talents, which are their stage presence and performance capabilities. From Edge and Culbertson’s casual joking to Orlando’s mastery of the mandolin, “Cast Iron Filter” entertains beyond simply playing music. In fact, on stage they simply shine. They played a number of songs, some from Edge’s Matala Summer and others from the band’s first album. They also played some songs not on either album. There were songs inspired, as Edge said, by “watching too many Jerry Springers.” The band also played the cover of Bon Jovi’s “Living on a Prayer” towards the end of the show.

Their first album, Paradise in Palestine, is on Catapult Records. This album, recorded in March, employs as a guest musician Gary Greene, who adds his percussionist abilities. From the first song on their CD, Paradise in Palestine, the band presents themes and sounds that are both entertaining and very human. The “Temptress of Washington” speaks about a woman who travels down destructive paths while searching for happiness. This combination of sounds that is “Cast Iron Filter” is marked, on one hand, by the band’s lyrics. “Hello, Rebekah” tells a story of heartache that transcends the words and images that are Edge’s own. The band’s songs are human stories that cover a range of themes, addressing the pain and happiness that people feel. The longing of “Take Me Home” and the rapid, celebratory rhythm of “Tam Lyn” are examples of the varied themes that the band’s music covers.

The band’s sound is also marked by the frequent combination of Culbertson and Edge’s guitars and Orlando’s mandolin. On some of the tracks, Orlando’s playing moves through the air with a force. This force is carried in “Tam Lyn,” an instrumental arranged by Orlando. Other songs on the album carry the same power, like Culbertson’s “Take Me Home.”

“Cast Iron Filter” certainly looks ready to catapult into the future. They have a versatile sound, entertaining performance ability, and a simple realness that is lacking in much of modern music. It waits to be seen where all that will carry this talented group from little old Davidson College.

CROSSWORDS

except on weekends

Ti's WB0.. Home | Wher? T's Simpsons | 4 ee. T ag ho work V+ Buy ‘golly Tu show you
for Simpsons. Cron} ond el YOu WK priorikies! |
Hanpt? Look, TW lve episode We was whle
Im s : wcariousl you ae
| \ Neegints Macous m EN an wie.

Moalf- Wale

Nate I at?