TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1999

Davidson College professor publishes account of the Itza Maya Conquest

By RACHEL COCKRILL
College Relations

Grant D. Jones, Charles A. Dana Professor of Anthropology at Davidson College, examines the devastation by European forces of the Itza Maya kingdom of Central America in 1697 in his new book, *The Conquest of the Last Maya Kingdom* (Stanford University Press, 1998). The book provides the first unbiased look at the Spanish conquest of the last highly centralized native society in the history of the Americas, correcting a highly criticized Spanish government version of events that was published in 1701.

The Spanish government was criticized for brutalizing the Itzas, and its court chronicler published a lengthy book in 1701 justifying the military actions. But the report was biased and widely criticized by critics of the conquest’s brutality in Mexico and Guatemala. Jones’ account of these momentous events is the first major published work on the topic since the time, and finally provides a modern, critical analysis of the historical record.

The Itza Maya island capital of Nojpeten (in present-day northern Guatemala) was captured by Spanish troops from Yucatan on March 13, 1697, after two years of planning. Nojpeten, with its many temples, palaces, and thatched roof homes, had been the political and ritual center of the more than 50,000 Itza people. Though the Spaniards negotiated with them in hopes of a peaceful conquest, the Mayas did not surrender their empire without a fight. The Spaniards eventually sent about 100 soldiers with artillery on a boat to attack the island. Though this attack killed many Itzas, the majority, including the Maya king Kan Ek’, fled the island prior to the Spanish offensive and were later captured in the surrounding forests. Kan Ek’, too, was captured and lived out his days under house arrest in Guatemala City.

In 1704 the Itzas attempted to reclaim their territory from the Spanish conquistadors. Though the rebellion exacted a bloody toll on both sides, Spanish troops quickly gained the upper hand and executed the accused leaders. The struggle between the Spaniards and the native Mayas for control in this area and its surrounding forests continued for many years, and many natives were driven from their land into Spanish missions, where many were converted to Christianity.

Jones first became interested in the Mayas in 1965 when he traveled to Belize for a graduate school field study. “I fell in love with the Maya people on that trip,” he said. “They hold wonderful values and have a fascinating and often tragic history.” *The Conquest of the Last Maya Kingdom*, which Jones describes as “anthropological history,” is based on more than 12 years of primary source research that was facilitated by fellowships and grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the National Science Foundation. Jones’ work began in 1982, and included travel to Seville, Spain, and Guatemala City to explore archival materials pertaining to the conquest. He hopes the book will increase understanding of historical Maya society, showing that the Mayas were active in affecting the outcome of events.

“This history of the Itzas proves that they were capable of forging their own destiny as a people,” says Jones. He further explained, “Their defeat is especially notable because it was the last conquest of a centralized native society in the history of the Americas. The Maya had a centralized, stratified kingdom-state with a highly defined social and political hierarchy. No unconquered native group in the Americas so late in colonial history could boast a more highly structured socio-political system than the Itzas. The book will, I hope,also offer insights into the present-day human-rights struggles of the Maya peoples of Guatemala and southern Mexico,”

College Communications

The Conquest of the Last Maya Kingdom is a sequel to Jones’ 1989 book, Maya Resistance to Spanish: Time and History on a Colonial Frontier (University of New Mexico Press), which addressed the importance of Maya concepts of time, prophecy, and history in native anti-colonial resistance in Belize, Mexico, and Guatemala. Jones explains that The Conquest of the Last Maya Kingdom takes up where the first book left off. In addition to telling the history of the conquest and its aftermath, Jones looks at the political and social structure of the Itza Maya community in Peten, Guatemala. In addition to the Itzas, there are still several million Mayas and more than 20 different Maya languages being spoken in Mexico, Belize, and Guatemala.

Jones said the book should appeal to Mayanists, Latin American historians, students of Latin American history or culture, and the general public. Jones feels that Maya history is a highly topical subject because “they are perceived as an exotic, interesting population that captures the imagination.” Though the Itza Maya suffered a population decline of 90% following their defeat by the Spanish in 1697 (a result of both warfare and European epidemic diseases), Itzas still survive as a culture. The book provides the first unbiased look at the Spanish conquest of the last highly centralized native society in the history of the Americas. He also examines the Itzas’ interactions with neighboring Maya nations, making The Conquest of the Last Maya Kingdom one of the most detailed accounts of an independent Maya kingdom.

W. George Lovell of Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario, has praised Jones’ efforts. “This study will assume the status of an enduring classic in the field of Mesoamerican studies. Superbly crafted, it presents an original reinterpretation of the events and circumstances surrounding the conquest of the Itza,” said Lovell.

Jones hopes that a Spanish translation of the book will soon follow and is planning another book describing the Itza Maya way of life in greater depth. Jones received his B.A. in anthropology cum laude from Florida State University. He then earned his M.A. and Ph.D. from Brandeis University. Jones taught at Hamilton College from 1968 until coming to Davidson College in 1985. He served as chair of the departments of anthropology and sociology from 1985-88, 1989-91, and 1996-98.

Davidson Art History semester in France

Art History Professor Shaw Smith embarked this past Friday with seven Davidson students: Caitlin Haskell, Lori Beppu, Elizabeth Blackburn, Sarah Moore, Elizabeth Tripodi, Nancy Livingston, and Benin rere, to study Art History in France.

College Communications

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

BEN COVINGTON
Web Editor

CABER HOWARD
Editors in Chief

STEPHEN GAMBOA
Business Manager

JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
News Editors

WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Op-Ed Editor

SCOTT REEDER
CARRIE ARTHUR
SETH ALLEY
ASHLEY E. KING
Circulation Manager

MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE
Sports Editors

EUGENIA HEATH
ALISON KALETT
Advertising Managers

MIKE ANDERSON
Arts & Living Editors

SETH DAVIS
PETER CLARK
DAVID JOHNSTON
KELLS HETHERINGTON
Sports Layout Editors

WHITNEY BLAKE
ALLISON SISK
Head Copy Editors

BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD
Ad Designers

ANNA JUDY
Photo Editor

NATHANIEL LOTZE
Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davidsonian is published Tuesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 21, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Look for The Davidsonian on the Internet soon, the current site is in the process of being updated and brought back online.