SPORTS THE DAVIDSONIAN - TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1999

That was the pitiful regular season conference record of Western Carolina’s Catamounts. What the hell is a Catamount anyway? 2-14.
When Southern Conference Tournament week-end rolled around, fans of Davidson men’s basketball were already bracing for the impact of Saturday’s
expected clash with the College of Charleston, the newcomer to the Southern Conference and proud owners of college basketball’s longest-running
win streak. Could a loss to a 2-14 team even before that match-up have been any more painful?

Despite the ‘Cats’ near upset of the Cougars in late January at Belk Arena, it was still considered a long
shot that Davidson could fell Sedric Webber and the mighty Charleston. But it was considered an even longer shot that
we could be knocked out of tournament play before Saturday’s contest. On the books and in the papers, the debacle
on the floor. Black Friday appears as an embarrassing blemish on the history of Davidson basketball, and an abashing smudge
on Bob McKillop’s record.

When the buzzer sounded at the end of Friday’s quarter-final game, the hearts of Davidson basketball fans sunk to lows
unseen over the careers of Ali Ton, Ben Ebong, and Chadd Holmes. But as a fan of Davidson basketball, my
spirits were lifted at the post-game press conference. A teary-eyed Western Carolina head coach, Phil Hopkins, sat down at the
table and said, “First of all, I have to praise God for Bob McKillop. When we played them over there
at the first of the year, we were really struggling. And he wrote me a letter, and he called me,
and helped me get through this, and I want to praise God for Bob McKillop.”

The thoughtfulness of Bob McKillop helped deliver Phil Hopkins from the trials and tribulations of an ill son and a
basketball team in the depths of despair. Two months later, Hopkins’ fortunes on the basketball courts were reversing. And he
came back to triumph against the very coach who had picked him up off the floor. A reporter asked McKillop
if he regretted that this act of kindness eventuated in his team’s elimination from tournament play. “Well, it was the
right thing to do,” commented McKillop, the SoCon’s reigning Coach of the Year. “And I'd do it again. If that
letter brought a loss to Davidson College today, I'd still do it. That’s what this business is about, helping people.”

McKillop earned Coach of the Year honors last year while guiding Davidson to the NCAA Tournament. As I watched Phil
Hopkins humbly thank God for His grace and that of Bob McKillop, I felt a sense of satisfaction and joy
unmatched by any final score. Friday was a disappointing day for Davidson’s men’s basketball team. But I have never been
prouder to be a Wildcat fan or a member of the College’s community.

Wes Self selected pitcher of the week
Bro Krirr
Staff Writer

After Wes Self’s brilliant pitching performance on February 27, the Southern Conference awarded him with the honor of Southern Conference
pitcher-of-the-week. The right-handed sophomore shut out the Appalachian State Mountaineers 4-0 in the second game of a double-header. The win
was Davidson’s first.of the season. Over seven complete innings, Self scattered four hits while striking out five. Self simply dominated
the usually heavy-hitting Mountaineers, throwing a remarkable low 80 pitches. Self allowed only one base runner to reach third base
in the seventh inning when the Wildcats already held a four-run lead. The Virginia native maintained the pinpoint accuracy he
had shown in earlier outings. In 21 innings, Self has only walked two batters this season. In Saturday’s performance, he
continued that commanding control, never allowing a free pass. The complete game shutout was Davidson’s first since Eric Bowers, as
a freshman in 1997, controlled Holy Cross for a 10-0 victory.

Wildcats meet stiff competition early
By Kirk Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team entered the weekend match-up with conference foe UNC-Greensboro on a down note, yet the Wildcats were
able to leave with a hard-fought 14-9 victory under their belt. After earning their first victory last weekend against Appalachian
State in grand fashion, the Wildcats appeared to take a huge step forward. But they then traveled to Alabama for
difficult match-ups with Auburn and Samford. Davidson couldn’t control the nationally-ranked Auburn Tigers, and Samford proved to be competitive as
Davidson lost all three, being outscored 42-7. But their past performance had no bearing on Saturday’s outcome. Though an overwhelming
underdog to the conference-favorite Spartans, Davidson out-hit Greensboro on their way to a 14-9 triumph. Davidson scored their 14 runs
on 18 hits, both season highs for the team. Freshman Tim Frend led the Wildcats with five hits, including two
doubles. Stewart Sloan and Ben Brown each added three hits and three runs batted in. Sloan and the powerful Jeremiah
Parvin swatted home runs in the victory.

Unfortunately for Davidson (2-14), the hitting did not continue at such a torrid rate for the weekend’s remainder as the
Wildcats lost the last two games of the series 13-2 and 7-4. In Saturday’s second game, the Spartans’ Jonathan Jackson
controlled Davidson’s hot bats, allowing two runs on seven hits. In his complete game performance, he struck out eight Davidson
batters. Brown, Brian Joyce, and Ryan Stroker all had two hits. Lead-off hitter Brown currently leads the team with a
.344 average. On Sunday, the infield committed four costly errors, forcing four unearned runs in the three-run loss. Frend again
shined despite the loss. He ripped three hits, driving in three runs.

Frend, after his nine-for-13 performance this weekend, raised his average to .293. Frend, along with Parvin, leads the team with
10 RBIs. Garland Yarborough pitched solidly for five and one-third innings, only giving up three earned runs. His relief, freshman
Mark Wells, was just as strong. Wells allowed only two hits over two and two-thirds innings. The Spartans did not
score in the last two innings as Wells lowered his team-leading ERA to 5.40. In Sunday’s loss, Joyce placed himself
in the Davidson record books. Over the weekend, the senior stole five bases, pushing his career total to 65 swipes.
He is now the number one Wildcat speedster on the base paths. He surpassed Billy Masse’s 63 steals from 1985-87.
