_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Called “Stand Up Speak Out,” this program encouraged students to express their personal feelings on Civil Rights or to read from Civil Rights material that they felt was poignant. To begin the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, a “Unity Prayer Breakfast” took place in the Chambers Gallery at 8:00 in the morning. Reverend Charles White, Pastor of the Clover Parish of the United Methodist Church located in Clover, SC, delivered a speech to those who attended the breakfast.

The next activity of the day was “King Day for Kids,” which was meant to introduce children from the community to the issues surrounding the MLK holiday. Attracted to the event by posters around town and fliers sent to schools, the children who participated were all elementary school age, ranging from 3rd to 5th graders. Various games, videos, and interactive projects helped to educate the children about the meaning of Dr. King’s dream.

During lunch, the SGA sponsored “diversity dining” in Vail Commons. Lasting from 12:00 to 1:45 in the afternoon, this program allowed students from different backgrounds to exchange ideas about racial issues. In order to broaden students' horizons, small groups were placed randomly at a table and asked to discuss diversity. Ainsley Natta, President of the BSC, said he felt such a program “helps for us to meet new people, to hear a new perspective.”

From 2:00 until 3:00 in the afternoon, the first session of a series of seminars occurred in the College Union. The three seminars in this session included speeches by Dr. Russell Snapp, Dr. Susan Roberts, and Reverend Brenda Tapia. Addressing controversial issues, Tapia’s seminar was entitled “Everything you wanted to know about black people but were afraid to ask.” Tapia answered questions from the audience, sharing her unique perspective on each issue at hand and encouraging students to participate in the discussion. The questions asked pertained to a wide variety of issues, ranging from African American hairstyles to racism in the Davidson community to the questionable validity of stereotypes. In her opening statements, Tapia had said, “I feel like one of the biggest tests that God has given us as human beings is for us to realize that our differences are not meant to polarize us.” With each question asked, Tapia seemed to reinforce this idea.

A professor of history, Dr. Snapp’s seminar was called “Integrating African-American history into the curriculum.” Dr. Roberts, a political science professor, led a seminar called “A people’s participation: the voting rights act.”

A second session of seminars took place in the Union from 3:30 until 4:30 in the afternoon. Dr. Sally McMillan of the history department and Dr. John Kuykendall of the religion department organized the two seminars of this session. Kuykendall, who was President of Davidson College before Robert Vagt, distributed copies of Dr. King’s famous “A Letter From a Birmingham Jail,” which the participants then read and discussed in groups of about six people. McMillan discussed the role of African-American women in the history of the United States.

The final activity of the day was an MLK Worship Service and Gospel Song Fest, organized by Reverend Tapia. Students, faculty, and members of the Davidson community gathered in Love Auditorium at 8:00 pm to celebrate the spiritual aspects of Dr. King’s movement. Many of those who helped to ensure that no classes would be held on MLK day felt that they were dedicating Monday, January 18th to raising awareness of Dr. King’s dream of racial equality. Fisher said she hoped that even if students did not participate in the events scheduled for the day, the recent action of the administration would still...have a positive impact by forcing students to “stop and think why” they had received the day off. Natta expressed similar sentiments, saying, “I hope that people don’t see it as another day off. It’s an important day... people need to reflect why we need the day off.” When asked if he thought Americans were close to achieving Dr. King’s dream, Jeffries said, “I think we’ve made some strides, but I personally think when we look at the overall picture, we still have a long way to go.” Natta, Fisher, and Tuttle all expressed similar feelings. Jeffries thought that students at Davidson can take further steps toward the dream on an individual level. “One thing that would be a huge help is if everyone assessed themselves personally,” Jeffries said. He felt that after students truly evaluate themselves, they can then challenge themselves to act in the community. Reviewing the day, Jeffries said, “I think a lot of positive things happened today through this program.” He also commented that he hopes students at Davidson can “build on our successes today and improve next year.” The decision of the administration to suspend classes during the MLK holiday marked a precedent in Davidson’s history as a college and will probably become tradition in the years to come.

Davidson’s Watson Nominees
By RACHEL COCKRILL
College Relations

Davidson’s third nominee also plans to study plants, but of a different nature. Daniel Cooke, a double major in biology and chemistry from Spokane, WA, proposes to study the traditional Davidson College has selected four senior students as its 1998-99 nominees for Thomas J. Watson Fellowships. The fellowship program gives exceptional college graduates between $22,000 and $31,000 to study a topic of particular interest during a year of independent study and travel abroad. Davidson’s four finalists (three of the four, coincidentally, are roommates) were selected from 26 Davidson applicants. They now move on to compete with nominees from 49 other institutions for 60 available fellowships, which will be announced by March 15, 1999.

Emily Setina, an English major from Dallas, TX, hopes to study Celtic poetry and photography. Traveling to Wales, Northern Ireland, and Brittany, Setina would investigate how these people have sought to preserve their language and culture despite the predominance of English and American influences in their land.

Cintra Pollack is an English major from Denver, CO, who hopes to study gardens around the world. She will look at the ways gardens in different countries reflect the architecture, philosophy, and spirituality of particular cultures.

College Communications use of four plants to enhance cognition and memory. Cooke hopes to travel to rainforest regions where these plants grow and study their pharmacological use by natives of those regions.

Elisabeth Malphurs is a religion major from Jackson, MS, who proposes studying monastic communities. Traveling to France, Nepal, India, and Great Britain, Malphurs would look at how these monks approach their communal lives of service and personal sacrifice.

Since its founding 30 years ago in 1968, the Watson Foundation has awarded stipends totaling approximately $22,000,000 to nearly 2,000 Watson Fellowship recipients, 56 of which have been awarded to Davidson College graduates. Winners in previous years have traveled the world to study topics such as ancient shipbuilding techniques in Indonesia, blue-haired monkeys in West Africa, and flamenco dancing in Spain and Brazil. Davidson currently has two graduates studying on Watson Fellowships, one looking at army ants around the world and the other exploring the art of basket weaving.

College Communications

Andy White

They say it only takes one person to make a difference.