THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Wildcats drop contests to UNC-G, St. Mary’s
By Andy Lanooha
Staff Writer

Beginning the week as the number one team in the South and the #5 team in the nation, by week’s
end the Davidson men’s soccer team had run head-on into the truth of the saying, “soccer is a fickle game.”
On the tail of two stunning victories, Davidson dropped back-to-back games to unranked opponents and found themselves in the recently
unexpected position of being a .500 team.

Davidson suffered their first defeat this season at the hands of conference rival and preseason #13 UNC-Greensboro in Greensboro last
Tuesday night. Davidson and UNC-G battled back and forth throughout most of the first half. However, in the 40th minute,
UNC-G delivered a fatal blow — scoring two goals in 30 seconds. UNC-G notched their first at 39:54, taking advantage
of Davidson’s first major defensive error. Colliding with a pair of other players, Davidson keeper Soren Johnson was unable to
punch away a dangerous UNC-G cross and instead found himself on the ground and out of the play. UNC-G forward
Alejandro Moreno took advantage of the opportunity and finished the ball into an open net. At 40:24, almost immediately after
the ensuing kickoff, UNC-G was awarded a penalty kick that resulted in the Spartans’ second goal.

“That second goal really knocked us down,” Hart Roper commented. “We hadn't given up a goal all season. So, two
in less than a minute really hurt.”

“Two-nil into the half was a wake-up call for us,” the senior captain continued. “We felt like we could still
do it, but unfortunately we were unable to step up.”

Ranking the ranking:
By Michael J. Kruse
Editor Emeritus

It took all of 30 seconds here Tuesday night for Davidson's No. 5 national soccer ranking to vanish. Preseason No.
13 UNC Greensboro went up 1-0 in the 39th minute and added another on a penalty kick shortly thereafter. Two
more goals in the second half made for a 4-0 final.

“We were about a quarter-step behind the eight-ball most of the night,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “But we still had
a great week.”

To say the least. In one heady seven-day span, the Wildcats went from nobodies to somebodies — and, depending on
what the unpredictable pollsters think of the Spartan loss, perhaps back again. But forget the four-goal setback. Faced with the
daunting task of opening the season against the region’s top three teams — in that order and on the road
— Davidson emerged with a 2-1 mark after upsetting fourth-ranked Clemson Sept. 1 and No. 10 South Carolina Sept. 4.

This is a team that went just 5-16 a year ago and hasn’t had a winning record since earning a
league championship in 1995. This is a team that began the fall ranked No. 5 in the Southern Conference.

“We had problems last year with guys not being on the same page,” said Slagle, who also lost 18 of
his top 20 players for at least one game due to injury in 1998. “But positive things have happened so
far this season. They’re doing the things we’re asking them to do, and doing them hard.”

Yet the local and state media didn’t seem to notice. Charlotte Observer sports staffer Jim Utter wrote a story on
soccer in last Tuesday’s paper — on UNCC’s home opener. He didn’t mention fifth-ranked Davidson until the third paragraph. And
that was only because the 49ers’ opponent was the same USC squad the Wildcats knocked off. The News and Observer
(Raleigh, NC) led its soccer coverage with the UNC women’s No. 1 ranking. Yeah, well, the grass is green and
the sky is blue. The Tar Heels are almost always No. 1. Davidson popped up matter-of-factly in a list of
Carolinas men’s teams in the Top 25.

This should not have been oh-by-the-way news. Even if it was only for a week, Davidson rubbed shoulders with college
soccer's elite — UCLA, Saint Louis, Indiana, Penn State, then the Wildcats, looking like a curious misprint in the nation’s
top five. The soccer team gave Davidson its highest national ranking since Lefty Driesell’s hoopsters finished 1968-69 third in the
United Press International poll and fifth in the Associated Press. That 27-3 squad, generally considered the finest athletic team in
school history, got as high as No. 2 on Dec. 31. The 1964-65 team, led by All-Americans Fred Hetzel and
Dick Snyder, was dubbed the country’s preseason No. 1 by Sports Illustrated — but not by an accredited polling agency.
That group ended the year sixth in the AP.

In women’s tennis, the Wildcats won a national title in 1984. But that came at the Division III level, and
women’s sports at that time were jumbled compared to the Title IX atmosphere of today. As good as the basketball
program was in the 1960s, Slagle’s 1992 edition of men’s soccer is Davidson’s only team ever to have reached a
Division I Final Four — and those Wildcats did.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

It right here at Richardson Field. All-American striker Rob Ukrop and wunderkind goalie Alex Deegan — both of whom, incidentally,
were in Greensboro Tuesday night — made that Fall magical. The 1992 Wildcats scored 90 goals in 27 games, posted
a program-best 17-5-5 record, and won three NCAA tournament games in penalty kicks, sudden death penalty kicks, and triple overtime,
respectively. Ukrop and Company got as high as ninth following a win at No. 2 UCLA and finished No. 16
after falling to San Diego 3-2 in the national semifinals. But they never ranked fifth. “We all kind of laughed
when it came out,” senior captain Hart Roper said of the lofty perch, which included the program’s first ever top
billing.

WEEKEND UPDATE

With a loss last night to Drury College (Mo.), Davidson was unable to pull out of a week-long skid that
saw them drop three in a row, after knocking off Clemson and USC to garner a fifth-in-the-nation rating. The ’Cats
jumped out to a 2-0 half-time lead, with goals by Chris Norbert and Paul Watson. But Drury stunned the ’Cats,
forcing a double-overtime, and then stealing the game on a goal in the game’s 105th minute. Andrew Holbrook and David
Buehler were named to the All-Tournament of the Falcon Invitational Tournament. The Air Force Academy knocked off St. Mary’s 6-0
yesterday to capture the tournament title.

Having to play with only 10 men throughout most of the second half didn’t help Davidson’s comeback chances. Stopper Jeremy
Kilburn was ejected early in the second half after receiving his second yellow card. Flying in for a header, Kilburn
earned his ejection (and four stitches in his lip) by leveling a Spartan midfielder near the halfway line. As the
half wore on, Davidson continued to struggle, and the Spartans added two more goals before the whistle blew and the
upset was final. Despite Kilburn’s hard tackling, Davidson’s entire performance was uninspiring. Explaining their lackluster play, Roper confessed, “We were
just tentative, a step slow, and less aggressive than we had been. I think that it was a draining week
physically and emotionally playing three big games in a row on the road.”

Though the impressive population of Davidson students that trekked to Greensboro last Tuesday left a bit disappointed, the ’Cats still
returned home in an overall enviable position. Winning two of their past three games (all on the road), the ’Cats
looked forward to two very winnable games in the Falcon Invitational Tournament, held at the U.S. Air Force Academy, in
Colorado Springs. Unfortunately, the Wildcats were unable to bounce back from the Greensboro loss. Davidson’s season record dropped to .500
on Friday, as they lost to St. Mary’s of California in a 1-0 heartbreaker. Though they dominated the statistics and
out-shot the Gaels 12-8, Davidson was unable to take advantage of their opportunities and lost to their weakest opponent yet.
Despite protests that he was offsides, St. Mary’s Jon Gordon scored the game-winner in the 73rd minute. “I felt like
we had the advantage and should have won,” commented senior forward Andrew Holbrook. “All we needed was one goal and
the game was won. We were just unable to finish.”

Davidson finished their road trip yesterday against Drury College of Missouri. A winnable game, this contest provided the ’Cats with
an important opportunity to get back on track before their showdown with Southern rival Wake Forest University on September 15th.

What does it mean? In the soccer-stacked South, “All that stuff has to do with who you play, and we
beat the toughest two teams in our region. But two wins doesn’t make a season, and one loss doesn’t make
a season, either.” Truth be told, Davidson has about as much business beating Clemson and South Carolina as it does
being ranked No. 5 in the nation. That is, none.

The full allotment of scholarships in DI men’s soccer is 9.9. The Wildcats have 1.2. “It’s a tough burden for
a group of kids with a minimum number of scholarships,” Slagle explained. “We have to work very, very hard to
be as good as we can be. There’s such a fine line at Davidson.” “But,” Roper added, “we are who
we are.”

Dane Erickson is Vice President of the SGA. Randy Culbertson is the founding member of student band Cast Iron Filter.
Andrew Holbrook is a Bonner and Stuart Scholar. Dan Ford is a Harkey and Thatcher Scholar. Bryan Garrett is an
FCA leader. Roper is co-chairman of the Athletic Advisory Committee. Chris Murray and Culbertson both received Dean Rusk grants last
year to study abroad. Eight Wildcats are academic all-conference. None of them are here primarily to help the Wildcats gain
a national soccer ranking. And that’s precisely what makes this story so darn good.

Call x2451 for an appointment.

---

Student Counseling Center welcomes first-year students and upper-class students. We're here to help.

DAVIDSON

The ’Cats hurdled two early season challenges to become the highest-ranked Davidson team in thirty years.
