8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

Two movies you shouldn’t let yourself miss

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

I'd like to take this space to review two films which I think are worth seeing. The first film, The Messenger, is out in theatres right now, showing, for example, at the Movies at the Lake just down the road. The second is Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, and you can find it in your local Blockbuster. So, whether or not you prefer to rent movies or see them in the theatre, there will be something for you in this review.

Luc Besson, writer and director of the acclaimed The Fifth Element, takes on quite a different story in his new film The Messenger. In this new film, Besson presents the story of Saint Joan of Arc, the famed French hero who was burned at the stake for her claim of having received divine visions. Milla Jovovich (The Fifth Element, Return to the Blue Lagoon, and He Got Game) stars as Joan. Once again working with Besson, Jovovich displays the same abilities which served her well in The Fifth Element. Her Joan is an enigmatic figure whose visions are called into question by the film.

The battle scenes in The Messenger are extremely gruesome; I dare say, they are more violent than Braveheart. Bloodied weapons and clothes abound, alongside decapitations and dismemberments. While the film isn’t as moving as it seemingly wants to be, it is very interesting towards the end. I won’t spoil anything, but Dustin Hoffman makes a surprise appearance as the most intriguing character in the whole film.

Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil stars Kevin Spacey as Jim Williams, a rich Savannahian, and John Cusack as a reporter from New York. Midnight tells the story of Williams' killing of a young man. The movie delves into everything from Georgia voodoism to the high society of Savannah. Williams, a rich Savannahian whose parties are the center of high society, kills his young lover out of what appears to be self-defense. Cusack’s character is in town to review one of Williams' parties for Town and Country magazine. During the course of the story, these two men become friends.

As the story progresses, Williams becomes more and more morally ambiguous. This ambiguity isn’t ever resolved. The supporting cast includes director Clint Eastwood’s daughter Alison, Jude Law, Jack Thompson, Irma P. Hall, and the Lady Chablis. The Lady Chablis threatens to steal the show at times, as she plays herself in the movie.

So as the year winds down, take some time to run to the theatre or the video store and enjoy one of these films.

BUT YOU STILL HAVE A VOICE.

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

The creative spirit of Davidson found its way into Charlotte this past week, as The Living Arts Gallery and Café displayed the artwork of sophomore Becca Wilson and the performances of, among others, the Davidson Dance Troupe. Over two nights, Thursday, November 18 and Friday, November 19, Davidson students displayed their talents in art, dance, poetry, and music before large crowds of both Davidson students and gallery patrons.

Both Thursday and Friday night became standing room only as people piled in to see the performances and look upon the artwork.

Neither night would have been possible without the efforts of Becca Wilson and Julia Philpott. Becca’s work was displayed in the gallery, and it was her idea to invite other Davidson artists to come perform. Julia, who heads up the Dance Troupe, was instrumental in organizing the artists who performed.

Becca’s art show was entitled “The Creation of Nature in Color & Motion.” Most of the pieces in the show were created during this past summer. While Becca’s art adorned the walls, the Dance Troupe performed every half-hour. In between their performances, other students read, played, or sang.

Davidson College needs more nights like these in celebration and presentation of students’ artistic abilities.

Is it too much to hope that Davidson College can play host to such an event on a somewhat regular basis? “I celebrate myself, and sing myself,” says Walt Whitman in his famous opening to Song of Myself.

In the future, I hope Davidson artists can do the same here at Davidson.

CROSSWORD SOLUTIONS

On the Scene at Davidson COLLEGE

IT’S A BREAK!

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
SATURDAY
SUNDAY
MONDAY

ENJOY IT!

Don’t forget all the art exhibits around Davidson!

Juggling. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Jumpin’ Java. 8:00 - 11:55 p.m. in the Outpost.