14 ‘Cats Hold Off Georgia Southern

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Sports Writer

Normally, Bob McKillop spends longer huddling with his assistants at the beginning of a time-out. But after Quentin Martin’s third three-pointer pulled Georgia Southern to within two of the ‘Cats, 75-73, with 15 seconds remaining last Monday night, Davidson’s head coach was in no mood for dallying. Instead, McKillop quickly burst from the company of his coaches and went right to his players.

“It’s a close game now. So what? This is good for us!” screamed McKillop.

Three seconds later, Jeff Bergmann stepped to the free throw line and, disregarding the various “choke” signals on display throughout the crowd at Hanner Field House (Statesboro, Georgia), connected twice to give the ‘Cats a 77-73 victory.

“Clutch” would be the word to describe Bergmann’s entire performance down the stretch against the Eagles (8-15, 4-9). The 6-foot-3 junior from Elk Grove, Illinois scored 10 points on the night. Eight of them came in the final 10 minutes of play. Bergmann’s inspired second-half three-point shooting (2-3) almost single-handedly stymied Georgia Southern’s potent offensive attack.

As mighty as his output was, Bergmann was not the player of the game. That honor belongs to Landry Kosmalski. “Special K” finished with 23 points and 10 rebounds, good for his sixth double-double of the season. The Bedford, Texas native won few friends among the Statesboro crowd with his thunderous first-half jam and stellar overall shooting (8-14).

The Wildcats led by nine (37-28) at the half and by 18 with 15:33 to play, but still had to withstand a barrage of Eagle three-pointers before they could leave with a win. Georgia Southern’s Fernando Daniel and Quentin Martin shot a combined 7-14 from three-point range on the night, each finishing with 21 points. No one else scored in double figures for the Eagles, who have now lost six straight.

“This is a team that took Charleston to the wire even more so than we did. They made some big shots tonight and made my heart skip a couple of beats,” said McKillop in a post-game interview.

Luckily, perseverance has been a given for the ‘Cats of late. McKillop’s club has won four in a row, eight of their last nine, and 13 of their last 16. With the win over the Eagles, Davidson (15-8, 10-3) headed into this past weekend deadlocked with Appalachian State (16-7, 10-3) for first place in the Southern Conference’s North division.

“We've been playing pretty darn well. I’m pleased about that. I think we’re moving forward in a big, big way,” says McKillop.

Besides Bergmann and Kosmalski, Davidson received vital offensive contributions from Davor Halbauer (15 points) and Stephen Marshall (14 points). Ali Ton also increased by 11 his Davidson Wildcats all-time assists record.

SPORTS. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1999

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Though it was not accompanied by a tally in the “W” column, Davidson’s Wildcats dispatched a resounding message last Monday night in a conference showdown against the Southern’s defending champion, first-place UNC-Greensboro.

“This game was very important to us,” said JoAnne Hassel, “because this was a gauge as to where we were. Now we know that we’re at this top level. We know that we’re playing at tournament-caliber.”

Greensboro entered Belk Arena last Monday in a three-way tie for the conference’s top spot along with ETSU and Georgia Southern. Davidson entered the game with an 8-6 conference record that landed them in fifth place, but only two out of the lead.

The Spartans jumped out to a 13-5 lead in the game’s opening minutes. Led by a pesky, tenacious point guard—5’6” ChoRhonda Gwaltney—Greensboro showed tremendous defensive athleticism, forcing 14 first-half Wildcat turnovers.

Wildcat senior Jessica Montrella found herself in foul trouble early and often and played only 18 minutes before fouling out with 4:22 remaining.

Davidson 61 Greensboro 64

Junior Katy Kamp was there to pick up the slack—the surging junior picked up 16 first-half points on her way to a season-high 21. After falling behind 32-28 at the break, the ‘Cats bounced back with a 6-0 run to start the second half. Davidson played a strong second half, with only six turnovers compared to the first half’s 14. A Kamp steal and subsequent lay-in eventually knotted the game at 61 with 1:25 to play. But two turnovers and a missed jumper in the game’s last 30 seconds allowed UNC-G to eke away for a 64-61 victory.

“It’s so frustrating to get so close and then fall just short,” said Jamie Brown who contributed 9 points and 7 rebounds despite limited playing time due to a recovering knee injury. “This was a game...we wanted. There’s no other way to describe it than frustrating and disappointing.”

“It’s a big disappointment because it’s a home game. And we like to think that we take care of our home court,” agreed Coach John Filar. “But the positive thing is that they laid it on the line tonight, they gave it a fantastic effort. We’ve got to be pleased with that.”

Among the factors in the Cats’ strong showing was the play of senior Kerry Brown, who had a well-balanced 11 points, five rebounds, and four assists on the night. Leah Uhernik started for the recuperating Jamie Brown, and picked up a team-high nine rebounds along with her nine points in 27 minutes of court time.

“Big minutes and big time from Leah Uhernik,” said Filar. “She did a fantastic job on the boards. She’s just a point and a rebound away from a double-double. She came to fight tonight, and that spread to her teammates on the floor.”

Jess Montrella achieved a career milestone on the evening, scoring her 1000th point in a Wildcat uniform. “Unfortunately, tonight was more bitter than sweet. I was happy to reach that milestone but it’s tempered by the fact that we lost the game and I got into foul trouble early.”

Though the final dominoes did not fall their way in the end, Filar’s Wildcats have renewed confidence in their ability to run with any team in the conference. “If we can come out every game and play with that kind of heart and desire,” said Jamie Brown, “we're going to be fine no matter who we’re matched up against.”

“I feel like we’re going to pull it out in the end,” said Jess Montrella, referring to the conference tournament in late February. “Deep down inside I just know. It doesn’t really matter to me what other people say or what other people think, but I know it and my teammates know it, too. We know in our hearts that we’re just as good or better than anybody in our conference.”

Swimming and Diving
Swimmers seek Three-Peat at Southern States
By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

This week, ten Southern Conference swimming and diving teams will descend on Davidson’s campus for the Southern States Championships, to be held from Wednesday through Saturday. Talented squads such as the University of Louisville, Georgia Southern, and Western Illinois will be looking to dethrone the two-time defending champion Wildcats.

According to Head Coach Rich DeSelm, the key to a Davidson three-peat will be continued success in their stroke, individual medley, and relay events combined with exceptional performances in their typically weaker sprinting events. “We can be a very capable relay team and surprise some teams, but we’re not deep in freestyle sprints, although we’re a little stronger on the women’s team,” DeSelm said. “This meet is very competitive in sprints so where we’re not deep or strong in sprints we make up in depth and ability in strokes.”

On the men’s side, victories in the swimming events are key as the ‘Cats will inevitably lose points in men’s diving where lone diver, junior Mark Medendorp, will continue to face tough competition from established diving programs. “We’ve been concerned about it (men’s diving) all year long,” DeSelm said. “With equally as talented divers as our opponents we would have been 9-4.” (The ‘Cats finished the season 6-7.)

For the women, diving will help rather than hinder the ‘Cats efforts as the trio of junior Elizabeth Fraser, sophomore Christa Conner, and freshman Liz Nugent look to continue their solid seasons. The women’s squad, however, will be missing several key swimmers due to injury. Junior Sharon Riedley is recovering from surgery she had in early January, while fellow junior Suzi Bozzone will swim only on the non-scoring team due to a head injury sustained last November.

Leading the ‘Cats efforts will be a group of six seniors. On the men’s side, Michael McCabe, Bill Patterson, and co-captains Jason Prince and Jay Rosenquest will look to end their Davidson swimming careers in championship fashion. The senior-duo of Allison Hobgood and Kathleen Paffenroth will lead the women’s team.

Davidson’s toughest competition will come from the University of Louisville on the women’s side, while newcomer Western Illinois and long-time rival Georgia Southern will challenge the men’s squad. The ‘Cats beat Georgia Southern by one point earlier this season and the Eagles will be seeking revenge.

Says freshman Tom Murphy, “We look strong going into the meet, but we’re gonna all have to do our best because we have good opponents who are also hungry for the title.”

“We're the underdog despite being the defending champions,” DeSelm said. “Louisville and Georgia Southern look very strong but I’m confident we’ll be in the middle of it- it’s up to us.”