“Lady Wildcats confident about upcoming hoops season

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

When the Wildcats step onto the Belk Arena floor for their first exhibition contest against Smoky Mountain, a little over eight months will have passed since the ’98-’99 squad fell to Appalachian State in the Southern Conference Championship contest. By nearly all accounts, the wounds from that loss have healed — but the hunger has not subsided.

Davidson enters their final campaign of the millennium coming off an 18-10 season that saw John Filar’s Wildcats set a new standard for the women’s basketball program. Last year’s Wildcats delivered a handful of program “firsts,” among them: a pre-season #1 ranking in the coach’s polls, 3 victories over Furman (a perennial powerhouse whose ‘98-’99 edition showcased pro prospect Jackie Smith), a victory over the #1-seed UNCG in the Southern Conference tournament, and an appearance in the tournament’s championship game.

This October, however, bodes no pre-season top rankings for the Lady 'Cats. After losing the star-studded class of 1999 (with a trio of four-year starters, Jamie and Kerry Brown, and Jess Montrella), the Southern Conference coaches rated Davidson #6 (tied with Appalachian State) amongst the division’s ten teams. UNCG garnered first place honors.

“I think our team really took it as a little bit of a slap,” said Head Coach John Filar. “Conference coaches have given our team even more incentive than we had before. It puts us back in the old role of being a hunter rather than being the hunted.”

When asked what characteristic of this year’s squad will best help compensate for the loss of three superstars, the first word out of every player and coach’s mouth is the same: chemistry.

“The chemistry this season is the best that it’s been in my four years,” Jen O’Brien proclaims. Speaking to a gathering of Southern Conference reporters in Greenville a few weeks ago, Filar predicted, “I think Davidson has to be looked at as a dark horse. People have dropped us down to sixth in the polls, but there is a lot to be said about chemistry. We may not be as talented, but we could very well be a better team than last year’s.”

Filar attributes much of that chemistry to the team’s European tour this past August. The Wildcats spent 11 days overseas, and returned with a flawless 5-0 record against top teams in England, Denmark, Sweden, and Norway. “The Europe experience was just tremendous. The athletic administration made a huge commitment to our program when they helped us make this trip. You’re out of the country; the only people you know are your teammates; you go places you’ve never seen...the whole experience brought them closer.”

Just weeks before the opening tip, only two players have secured starting positions—senior captains Jen O’Brien and Katy Kamp (see adjacent article). The three remaining spots are entirely up for grabs, and could remain as such deep into the season. “We’ve got two important parts coming back from last year, and some outstanding young ladies to put on the court with them,” said Filar. “Last year the starting lineup was pretty much set every game, this year could take on a different look from night to night.”

Last season, the starting five was all but decided before the first day of classes. This scenario could have created an unintentional but still unbridgeable gap between the team’s major contributors and those individuals relegated to more of a “support” role. O’Brien agrees that this uncertainty is a hidden advantage for the squad. “It’s made it a lot more of a feisty atmosphere. We claw at each other in practice; we fight for loose balls. It’s just made everybody that much more hungry knowing that they can crack the lineup at any given time.”

One of the deepest positions for the Wildcats will be alongside O’Brien at the shooting guard. Davidson returns last year’s sixth-man, Janna Magette, the Wildcats’ most effectual threat from behind the three-point line. Magette hovered among the nation’s leaders in 3-pt shooting early last season, and finished the year with an impressive clip of 37.6% behind the arc. Another key guard for the Wildcats will be senior Megan Gleason. Gleason never busted out during her shortened junior season, but retains every bit of the punch that made her a key contributor during her sophomore campaign. Gleason will remain one of the Wildcats’ key outside threats, and will be called upon to spell O’Brien at the point. Junior JoAnne Hassel and sophomore D’Erica Taylor are also expected to contribute at the guard spot. Teammates praise Taylor’s development as a multi-faceted scoring threat over the off-season and Hassel’s consistent work ethic and attitude. “JoAnne shows that she possibly has the quickest first step to the basket of anybody I’ve ever had here,” lauds Filar. “She also made a concerted effort to become an awfully strong defensive player.”

At the three-spot, sophomore Leah Uhernik and Kelly Copland seem to be the front runners for the starting nod. Copland’s slashing capabilities on the court bring a flair akin to that exuded by the Brown twins last season. As for Uhernik? “Leah has the ability to create a lot of mismatches on the court. She’s a 3-point threat, she’s a slasher, she’s a rebounder,” says Filar. Another key contributor as a forward will be sophomore Bethany Schott. Lauded by Filar as one of the team’s most capable rebounders, she also has developed into one of the best post defenders— and will be called upon early and often throughout the season. Also expected to be a powerful and immediate contributor, lone freshman Carolina (Caro) Perez-Heydrich has quickly become a popular member of the squad—both on and off the court. “Her personality fits our team like a puzzle,” says O’Brien.

The final opening remains at the center position, where...A pair of 6-3 juniors are expected to bring an impressive combination of strength and speed to the five-spot. Jessica Heath, whose clutch basket at the buzzer against Greensboro last March propelled the ’Cats into the championship game, brings a commanding presence and remarkable power into the paint. Heath has a career shooting percentage near 60%, and pulled in 48 rebounds while averaging six minutes a game last season. Kim Taylor, a four-year All-State selection at Portsmouth Abbey, is perhaps inch-for-inch the most talented all-around female athlete at Davidson. In addition to her basketball honors, Taylor received All-State lacrosse recognition at Portsmouth, and was a three-time All-Conference soccer goalie. This athleticism makes Taylor a powerful weapon in Davidson’s fast-paced transition offense.

With the departure of the Class of 1999, Davidson’s Wildcats have some enormous shoes to fill. The trio notched over 39 points and 17 rebounds per game last season, accounting for over half of the team’s scoring and forty percent of their boards. But the emphasis for the replacement process is entirely on “team”—with players and coaches confident that each and every athlete on the roster is eager and prepared to embrace their escalated role in this season’s squad.

The Captains: O’Brien and Kamp to guide 1999-2000 Wildcats
By Mike Anderson
Staff Writer

The Wildcats’ heart and soul since her sophomore season, Jen O’Brien has combined outstanding play with consistency and a cool head at the point. The senior will share the captain role this season with 6-1 fellow senior Katy Kamp. Head Coach John Filar seems confident entrusting his squad into the capable hands of the duo: “Jen O’Brien and Katy Kamp bring a vast amount of experience to the starting line-up and leadership,” praises Filar. “They’re two of the strongest players in the conference.”

Kamp enters her senior campaign as a returning starter, but will be looked to play an even greater role this year. “Katy has had very good years in the past,” explains Filar, “but this year she has to carry the ‘go to’ load.” The senior from Stevensville, Mich., has played in every game since joining the Wildcats in 1996, accruing 738 points and 374 rebounds in 81 games. Kamp, a psychology major, had her best season as a sophomore, averaging 25.2 minutes, 5.7 rebounds and 10.6 points per game as the team’s sixth man. As a starter in 1998-99, Kamp was among the team’s top five in scoring (9.4 ppg) and rebounding (4.3 rpg). She had some breakout games during her junior year, most notably a 22-point effort in the tournament’s semi-final game against Greensboro, earning her second-team All-Tournament recognition.

O’Brien, too, comes into the season with a litany of accomplishments under her belt. Described by many fans of Wildcat basketball as potentially “the most exciting athlete on this campus,” the 5-6 point guard earned herself a lasting place in the conference record books in just her sophomore season. O’Brien led the Southern Conference in assists, steals, and three-point percentage in 1997-98, becoming the first player ever to accomplish such a feat. She was a unanimous All-Conference selection that season, and was dubbed pre-season conference player of the year for 1998-99 along with Furman superstar Jackie Smith. As a junior, she overcame a slow start to lead the league in assists and steals. Her 3.5 steals per game ranked her ninth amongst the nation’s Division I basketball players. Coach Filar expects even bigger things from his steadfast superstar in her senior season: “This is gonna be Jen O’Brien’s best year that she’s ever had at Davidson, which is very exciting considering the type of play she had in the past. This is her third year as co-captain, the leadership she brings to the court is very valuable.” The Wildcat sensation was voted “best ballhandler” and “best passer” at the Southern Conference coach’s gathering in October. O’Brien led the team in scoring during her sophomore season with 17.1 points per game, and will be looked to reclaim that role as the team’s go-to scorer. “Last year, Jen tried to be an assist leader more than a scorer,” described Filar. “This year you’ll see that change.”

Despite her patent humility, O’Brien recognizes the extent of her importance to the program. “Obviously, I’m in two important roles this year, as captain and point guard. But Katy and I are really fortunate to have a team of girls that will listen to anything we tell them. If I can fill my roles to the best of my ability, our team will go far.”

Brent Ferrell—Named Southern Conference Runner of the Year, he became the first cross country runner in Davidson history to capture the Southern Conference Cross Country Individual title.

Southern Conference Cross Country Women’s Team Scoring
1. East Tennessee State 41 points
2. Furman 64 points
3. Appalachian State 78 points
4. Chattanooga 79 points
5. Western Carolina 87 points
6. UNC-Greensboro 199 points
7. College of Charleston 207 points
8. VMI 213 points
9. Davidson College 216 points
10. The Citadel 324 points
11. Wofford College 324 points
12. Georgia Southern 332 points

Top Wildcat Runners
26. Lucy Billingsley 19:51.04
31. Caroline Bennett 20:03.19
46. Caroline Little 20:43.41
56. Brooke Kittinger 21:21.83
57. Shaw Hipsher 21:24.92

Men’s Team Scoring
1. Chattanooga 41 points
2. Appalachian State 94 points
3. Furman 100 points
4. East Tennessee State 117 points
5. VMI 156 points
6. UNC-Greensboro 157 points
7. Davidson College 162 points
8. College of Charleston 169 points
9. Western Carolina 195 points
10. The Citadel 199 points
11. Wofford College 303 points

Top Wildcat Runners
1. Brent Ferrell 25:35.97
33. Dan Gibson 27:27.88
39. William Isenhour 27:31.94
41. Jimmy Swansbrough 27:32.79
48. Pat Burchett 28:00.82

Women’s soccer vs. Appalachian State
The Wildcats host the Mountaineers at 7 p.m. at Richardson Stadium in the first round of the Southern Conference Tournament.