“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

Palden Gyatso to visit campus
Davidson included in Tibetan monk’s nationwide tour

NEWS 4

Nightmare on Griffith Street
A junior cites “economic segregation”

OPINION 6

A&L 7

Y2K action in Love
“Millennium Musical” offers satire

SPORTS 11

Hampden-Sydney goes down
Wildcat football guaranteed a winning season

By Aaron Houck
Staff Writer

Over fall break, three houses on Griffith Street (the street that leads to Main Street from Interstate 77) were taken down. These events brought about increased criticism from members of the community opposed to the creation of a greenway entrance to Davidson College. One home was moved by the college at the request of the owner, one was razed (it also was to be moved, but, being a concrete block house, that option was too expensive), and the third was burned by the Davidson Fire Department in a training exercise. In each case, the residents were relocated to better houses at the college’s expense. “I’ve really enjoyed working with those folks,” Irvin Brawley of the Davidson Physical Plant said. “I feel good that we’ve done something good for the people.”

Since 1984, the college has acquired property along Griffith Street with the intention of creating a “ribbon of green” as an entrance to the college from the interstate. “We realize that many people visit the college who have never been here before and many things can make a first impression,” said President Bobby Vagt. Irvin Brawley explained, “The houses that were there were not in good repair. The approach to the college is important and a greenway space is better than those homes.”

Reaction from the community, however, has often been negative and sometimes quite harsh. Most of the families who lived along Griffith Street were African-American and were of lower economic means. Some people, telling of widespread dissatisfaction in the area, have described Davidson College and its policy as “conniving” and spoke even of “ethnic cleansing.” “I don’t understand why Davidson College, as a Christian institution, would want to move lower-income people out to make a beautiful, green entrance,” said one member of the community who wished to remain anonymous. “I’m not against Davidson College, but I feel that this was a bad thing — not just for the people moved out, but also for the college.”

Guydell Connor grew up on Griffith Street in a house his father built. “It was not a house, it was a home — where we experienced love, sadness, pain, everything you experience in life,” said Mr. Connor. His childhood home was one of the houses removed recently. “What was once a vital, vibrant neighborhood is now gone,” he remarked.

Wildcat Field Hockey
claims tournament crown

Ashley Hart (center) and her Wildcat teammates traveled to Salisbury for Saturday’s Deep South Tournament, returning with not only a pair of victories but with a championship as well. Story in Sports, page 10.

Mr. Connor is upset with the college, feeling that it had no consideration as it single-mindedly pursued a grand entrance.

The college stresses that it is concerned very much for the well-being of the people being relocated. The resident of one of the homes was given money to purchase a new house in Lakeside Terrace. Two other families were moved into a duplex built by the college. Ms. Margaret Latter, who was moved to the duplex, says that she was “very well pleased” with the arrangements. “The college was very nice,” she reported. “They bought my house and reduced the rent, built me a new house and reduced the rent again.” Mr. Brawley,

See Greenway on page 4 for continuation

Davidson partners with Biosphere 2

By MICHAEL OMIECINSKI

Biosphere Admissions Press Release

In October, Davidson College signed a partnership agreement with Columbia University’s Biosphere 2 Center in Oracle, Arizona. Davidson undergraduates are now eligible to spend a semester studying environmental science in a hands-on field experience called Earth Semester. Students spend sixteen weeks exploring the unique laboratory of Biosphere 2 and the surrounding Arizona desert.

According to Vera Case, Chair of the Biology Department, “We are very excited about our new affiliation with Biosphere 2. It is an exciting opportunity for students to broaden their horizons in the Biological Sciences.”

“Davidson College is full of high-caliber students and faculty members whose participation in our programs will contribute immensely to our goal of becoming a world-class research and education campus,” said Biosphere 2 President and Executive

See Partnership on page 2 for continuation

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036