THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1999

Who turned the lights out?

It is 6:15 in the afternoon; no, it is 6:15 at night. Why is it dark outside? I do not know. Is it nuclear winter? Has the world come to an end? Has the sun become obscured by the trillions of dust particles in the atmosphere so that it is only a matter of time before all life on this planet becomes extinct? Probably not. But, still, it is dark outside way, way too early.

When first I heard that we would be gaining an hour two weeks ago, I was enlivened. I could stay up to five instead of four and still get plenty of sleep (sorry Mom, but it’s true). The world seemed brighter, the birds were happier, and everyone was at peace. Never did anyone mention to me that in exchange for that measly hour that one night, I would be faced with eternal darkness.

It is now 6:25 and my body is telling me that it is time to start doing my homework. Homework time doesn’t start until at least 8:00 (sorry Mom, but it’s true). Everything is out of whack. Whoever came up with this ridiculous idea? Well, (and I am sure you history majors will write to me asserting the gigantic inaccuracies in the following information) it all began back during this little event known as World War II. In it, you see, America was kicking some major ass overseas. However, apparently the tanks were all battery-powered and were running out of juice. In order to conserve electricity, the government decided to set time back an hour. (They also decided to institute speed limits at this time to prevent people from getting to work on time and thus becoming stressed about work.) Apparently, the person in charge of this program was ninety years old. Had he or she been younger, they would surely have noticed that more people are awake at six o'clock at night than there are at six o’clock in the morning. Hence, we go to dinner after the 4:00 early bird special and actually use more electricity to light the rooms earlier because it gets dark before I even frickin’ wake up! What the hell?

Even the animals are confused. Last night I saw a mockingbird run smack into my window. It was dark out and the damned thing thought that my light was the sun, after all... who would believe that it was dark outside at 5:30? The poor thing, yet I had to make fun of its plight. After all, who wouldn’t take the chance to mock a mockingbird? The resident skunk family was out this morning when I went to breakfast. They seemed very confused. I don’t know about you, but I wouldn’t mess with a confused and belligerent skunk looking for someone to explain why it was light outside during his bedtime.

Despite the fact that this new time schedule is in direct contrast to all that Mother Nature stands for, (I, much like my ninety-year-old counterpart, enjoy screwing with animals’ minds) I am sure that there are some people who enjoy light at five-thirty every morning. To think they had to set alarms before, whereas now they can just leave the blinds up and they will be woken by the searing brightness magnified by the insulated windows. Wait a minute, no one gets up at that ungodly hour (the differently-abled crew team aside). I suppose that some people like to watch the sunset before they go to bed, but they are far outweighed by those, like the skunk family, who wish to sleep in! I’m going to bed now. It is late... Never mind it is only seven. Grrrrrrrrr.

Note: It should be noted that Daylight Savings Time originated in England during WWI and was instituted year-round in the U.S. during WWI and then later during WWII. Also, do not, I repeat DO NOT go running through the woods at six o'clock in the morning... you will run into some very ornery skunks. (Not that I know from experience, or anything.) Oh, and tomato sauce does not work. (Again, not that I know from experience, or anything.) (Sorry Mom.)

Andrew MacDonald ’03

Professor X

Last week’s professor, the world-traveling inamorata of music, was Professor Jennifer Stasack. The keen student, who set a record for speed with his quick response, was Will White. Will hails from Mississippi. Good luck with this one, and don’t be afraid to guess; I won't tell anyone if you are wrong.

As her brothers and sisters crouched in the basement of a police station, and Hurricane Carol ravished the east coast, she was born, the seventh child of Gerard and Alice. On a tree-lined street in Nassau County, in a large, white, colonial home, Mary Alice, Jerry, Rosanne, George, Kathleen, Ann, and Helen kept their parents busy. However, this was not the home of her heart. She considers her childhood home to be the family beach house in Quogue, off the southeast shore of Long Island. Each summer, each child received one box to fill up with their desired belongings, and off to the beach they went, all summer, every summer. When I asked her what she put in her box, she admitted her academic nature with a single word response: books.

Kindergarten through eighth grade she attended a private Catholic school which was run entirely by nuns. Her high school, Our Lady of Mercy Academy, was actually a convent. She excelled in science and geometry. When she shipped off to Union College in Schenectady, NY, she was relieved to emerge from under the thumb of strict habit-headed instructors. In college, she discovered a whole new world of knowledge, falling in love with English literature and philosophy. In trying to get at the roots of these two academic disciplines, she discovered a passion for a third: Latin. She spent a semester in Italy, studying Italian intensely. The family she lived with in Italy tried to keep information from her by speaking very quickly in Italian. She had to learn fast in order to keep up with them, so she quickly became fluent.

After graduating, she took a job teaching English and coaching drama for Avon Old Farms School, an all-boys prep school in Connecticut. She was one of the first women to ever teach there. She met a young man from Princeton at a faculty barbecue. A romance was born. After teaching herself ancient Greek, and taking a few graduate courses at Oxford and Wesleyan, she went to Indiana University, where she received a graduate degree. Upon graduation from IU, she was married to the young man from Princeton. They moved to Massachusetts and continued teaching at Tabor Academy, where she was the head of her department. She still desired higher education, so she applied to graduate schools again and was accepted to Harvard. She moved to Cambridge and started on her doctoral work. He followed a year later, studying at the Harvard School of Education. She was six months pregnant when it was time for general exams. Two-and-a-half years later she had a second son. They returned to Tabor and she commuted 130 miles, three days a week to Cambridge, Massachusetts. Yikes! She was writing her dissertation while teaching at Harvard, mothering two small children, and making this long commute. Her graduation was a celebrated affair. She jokes that her crimson Harvard robe is dyed in her blood. When she interviewed at Davidson, she was so impressed with the faculty and the school that the family decided to make the move from New England.to the South. Her husband teaches English and coaches lacrosse at Charlotte Country Day. To her two sons, she reads poetry and novels in Latin, Greek, and English. When they go on road trips, they hear “books-on-mom,” instead of books-on-tape. Email your guess, and the professor of your choice to brmcmillan@davidson.edu.

‘Life is an art form’

If you were not watching North Carolina Dance Theatre this weekend (and most of you were not), then I hope you did something that made you feel more than human, that inspired you to think in new ways or at least about new things, or that fully engaged you — body, mind, and soul. Dancers engage themselves like that every day. Some great athletes do too; they’re the ones who compare their sports to art forms.

I think I engaged myself like that this weekend. I woke up very late this (Sunday) morning feeling beaten, but not at all in the sense of losing. I chose to exchange my time and energy from 8 am Thursday morning until after midnight Saturday night so that almost 20 Artists Series Committee members, several Dance Ensemble members, some already over-extended (who isn’t?) Union Board members, some terrific Union staff, a few people who just joined in when we needed them, and I could do what it took to let one of America’s premier dance companies take the stage in Hodson Hall.

I am proud of my exhaustion from facilitating something as incredible as their performances here this weekend. And they were incredible: in the first three pieces, dancers and musicians interacted on stage, spurring each other to more and more passionate interpretation of Stravinsky, Debussy, and Beethoven. In the last piece, several men and women started out just walking, running, skipping, jumping, almost playing tag like kids, but became faster and more intense and more powerful until suddenly you expected them to give up gravity and the marley floor of the stage altogether and fly.

And what about the audience, sitting in Hodson’s small, intimate space, letting the dancers’ energy flow over them and into them in waves? I heard one woman say, “When I’m watching them, I always feel like a gazelle, and then when I stand up I feel like an elephant.” One of my best friends was surprised to find herself almost in tears during the Beethoven. Guy friends for whom this was a new experience made a point to tell me how incredible they thought it was.

You don’t have to have ever studied dance to enjoy it. You don’t have to know that these people rehearse for 6 hours a day and train for hours beyond that to see that their bodies are amazingly strong and incomparably controlled, that they are both very beautiful and instruments of great beauty. You don’t have to understand the meaning of every moment in a piece like “Esplanade” (the running-skipping-flying one) to feel that it is at times the incarnation of joy. Nevertheless, you might see yourself very specifically in one of the lovers struggling for control or freedom in the Beethoven piece. And if you do, if you can personally connect to one moment in a 90-minute program, then the show is worth the artists’ work, worth your ticket price ($6 is almost nothing), worth the opportunity cost of 90 minutes, and more.

I am proud of running the Artists Series, and I think it is an important and wonderful thing for Davidson students to run and attend, because simply by virtue of our high level of education we can be expected to become very significant audience members, consumers, of the art that dance companies and theatre companies and musicians and other performing artists as well as visual artists, will produce in the years to come. You will make it possible for them to continue offering that art in a world of MTV speed and flash, Internet easy convenience, and media soundbites.

I can’t force-feed you the arts events this campus offers, much less force-feed you a love of the arts. However, I know that the more you attend, the more you will enjoy them; and the more you enjoy them, the more you will remember that life isn’t about the next paper or the next review or getting a job (though I hope you find a career you love) or what you're going to wear tomorrow to impress somebody cute or how big your biceps and calves are or how much time you didn’t have to read this editorial. It’s more about doing something you didn’t know you could do, spending your time on something (or someone) that really excites you, taking chances, making plans and maybe following them and maybe not, finding happiness through hard work and hard play. Life is an art form, and artists like NCDT dancers can show you something about living it.

Amanda Lanier ’01

The unsung heroes of Davidson club sports want to share something with y’all today, something of which I was honored to be a part. I got to see some of the bravest and most audacious young people of Davidson in action tonight. I won’t tell you who these brave intrepid souls are just yet, I want to try and hook y’all in.

Here’s the setting: imagine the most desolate field of brown dirt and “grass” (i.e. green dirt) that you’ve ever seen. Now imagine that it’s 40 degrees outside plus the wind chill. I’m talking so cold that your arms don’t work anymore because your poor body can’t spare the blood to keep such trivial appendages working. Look across the field and who do you see? The Cleveland Browns? Perhaps some other youthful team full of rookie mistakes? WRONG! Thank you for playing, don’t let the door hit you in the ass on the way out! The team is champion for the past two years and they are veteran, crafty, sneaky and well-coached. But wait, I’m not done. Your team is coached by the world’s most well-behaved bear who doesn’t know a damn thing about your sport and in fact the only sport that bear knows is the mortal enemy of your own. Sounds like a quick and easy battle right?

If y’all can picture all that, congratulations! That’s what the Davidson women’s club soccer team had going against them tonight, but worry not faithful readers (if I have any) the story is a happy one. I was the substitute coach for them tonight and I was fortunate enough to bear witness to one of the greatest sports achievements ever and not screw it up. Those girls that I “coached” are some of the biggest badasses I’ve ever met. They defeated the Dallas Cowboys of their soccer league in overtime and you know how? I know your first guess would be my special coaching, but nope. They played as a team and defeated those evil old soccer-moms. Of course, I have no idea how they pulled that off... I was just yelling. BUT if I did know, I'd further sing their praises. All I know is that if y’all want to see some really kick-ass soccer playing, go to one of their games. Or you can just go to see the ex-football player soccer coach whose career winning percentage is 100%.

Note: This all happened last week, but I couldn’t find a disk to give the good paper folks. So, this is like a never-before-seen episode or something. Thanks!

Jimmy Burford ’02

“I know you want to get back together. I know you want to work things out. I feel the exact...