14 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

Air Force soars past ’Cats on Sunday, soccer falls to 3-5

Watson-- a 2-0 lead is never very safe and Drury managed to claw their way back. Notching two goals in
the second half, the Panthers took the momentum into the overtime periods and captured the victory when Drury's John Hoff
scored at the 105:36 mark, just thirty seconds into the second overtime period. Davidson's luck didn't change on Wednesday night,
and amidst Hurricane Floyd's torrential rains, the 'Cats suffered a 5-0 defeat at the hands of the #18 Demon Deacons.
The Demon Deacons took a 2-0 lead into the half, getting their first at 31:01. Wake kept their form in
the second half and finished three more to put the game out of reach.

With these two losses setting the stage, Friday's home opener against 4-1-1 Buffalo was riddled with desperation for Coach Slagel’s
‘Cats. Playing host for the first time in ‘99, the ‘Cats needed to stop their four-game slide and return to
the impressive form that had shocked the nation. Davidson rose to the challenge, roaring to a 4-0 victory. The ‘Cats
exploded in the 31st minute, erupting for four goals in as many minutes. The floodgates opened when captain Hart Roper
buried a goal into the upper shelf. Roper received the pass from Andrew Holbrook at the top of the box
and in a great individual effort brought the ball as close as six yards out before putting the ball above
the outstretched arms of Buffalo's keeper.

Dane Erickson wasted no time in furthering the lead, hitting an unassisted 24-yard blast into the lower corner. Erickson settled
a clearance from the box and without hesitation hit the rocket that sent the Bulls reeling. Norbet finished the barrage
with back-to-back goals in the 33rd minute. The sophomore notched his first finishing a breakaway off a beautiful long ball
from sweeper David Beuhler. Thirty seconds later, Norbet found himself back in the box on the receiving end of a
crafty Erickson pass which split the defense and opened the door to the goal. Once again, Norbet was there for
the finish and sent the ball into the net. Davidson continued to dominate the game and Buffalo never mounted a
threat through the second half. The victory helped the ‘Cats claw back to 3-4 on the season, but Sunday brought
yet more frustrations.

By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

Despite the outstanding 4-0 victory over Buffalo on Friday, the men's soccer team closed out a disappointing week this Sunday
with a loss against the United States Air Force Academy. Facing four games in seven days, Davidson's week began inauspiciously
in a heartbreaking double overtime loss to Drury College, and ended in similar fashion as they were defeated in an
all-out dogfight against the Falcons on Sunday afternoon.

Davidson suffered two difficult defeats earlier in the week to Drury College of Missouri and Wake Forest. The ‘Cats had
success in the first half against Drury College and took a commanding 2-0 lead into the half. But despite their
first half dominance--marked by beautiful goals by Chris Norbet and Paul Anna Judy.

Derek Kilburn evades a Buffalo defender in Friday’s action.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

‘Cats wait out storm, then roll to 5-2

By Brian Harbin
Staff Writer

Through Saturday, Dye now led the team in shots (7), goals (3), assists (3), and points (3). Freshman midfielder Lauren
Dennis made an impressive start, keeping the ‘Cats on a very aggressive offensive attack the whole afternoon. Davidson took 21
shots on goal while UTC only made two attempts. Junior goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan comfortably collected those two shots and recorded
her second shutout of the season. Davidson (4-2 overall, 2-0 Southern Conference) improved its three-game winning streak with Saturday’s victory
and now sits tied with Georgia Southern, Furman, and UNC Greensboro for the Southern Conference lead. The Lady Wildcats will
travel to Appalachian State Sept. 21 for another conference match and then return home to host Elon Sept. 23.

After an unexpected full week of rest, the Lady Wildcats soccer squad took the field Saturday afternoon and defeated visiting
Chattanooga 2-0 in an important Southern Conference contest. Originally, the Wildcats were scheduled to meet the University of South Carolina
Sept. 15, but the match was canceled due to the potential of inclement weather, compliments of Hurricane Floyd.

The extra time off was beneficial for the ‘Cats, however, who came out looking very refreshed and eager to play.
It took only ten minutes for Davidson to net its first goal as freshman Amy Johnston, assisted by senior Ginny
Dye, drilled a shot past UTC goalie K. C. Wolfe. Early in the second half, Dye was in action again,
connecting with the goal for the third time this season.and lofting Davidson to a 2-0 advantage that the ‘Cats would
maintain for the rest of the game. Thanks to the Davidson Sports Information Office for contributing to this article.

SURVEY SAYS...
Last week’s question: Which has been the most exciting fall sport to watch in ‘99?
Most common response, garnering 60% of the vote: MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY
Total votes cast: 5

The loss to the Air Force Academy was a heartbreaker for the 'Cats. Both teams fought hard throughout the game
and Davidson had much to be proud of despite failing to notch the victory. Play went back and forth throughout
the first half and the 'Cats were beginning to gain the upper hand when disaster struck. Davidson's David Beuhler was
ejected from the game after committing a professional foul just outside the 18-yard box. On a fast counter-attack, Air Force
was able to get behind Davidson's pressing defense. In a last-ditch effort, Beuhler fouled the Air Force forward who otherwise
would have had a one-on-one with Davidson's upstart goalkeeper, Soren Johnson. Though he probably saved a goal, the red card
was a tough pill to swallow for Beuhler and his teammates.

Davidson battled hard through the second half and even managed to control the game and the run of play. Things
looked hopeful for the 'Cats until the 59th minute when the referee awarded the Falcons a controversial penalty kick. Falcons'
senior Ryan Sagastume notched the game-winning penalty shot. Though the 'Cats attacked and battled 'til the end, fortune never shone
upon them and the game ended 1-0. Despite Sunday's loss, the 'Cats showed a lot of heart and put themselves
back on track this weekend. "The guys played some of their most inspired soccer of the season," commented coach Charlie
Slagle. "I am very proud of the guys. They played a tremendous second half, even down a man."

With a gap in their schedule spanning until September 29, Davidson now has an excellent opportunity to regroup before they
face a series of crucial conference matches beginning with the College of Charleston.

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.I.D.

The Davidson College Wildcats women’s cross country team finished in ninth place at the Winthrop Invitational on Saturday. Sophomore captain
Lucy Billingsley was the fastest Wildcat. She finished the 5K Winthrop Lake course in a time of 18:50. Sophomores Caroline
Bennett and Hannah Grimes finished second and third respectively for the ‘Cats, while Brooke Kittinger and Laura McCandish rounded out
the Davidson top five. The Wildcats return to action next week in Lexington, Va. at the Pre-conference Invitational hosted by
the Virginia Military Institute.

By KEITH CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

Coming off winning the meet at Greensboro two weeks ago, the men’s cross country team had high hopes for this
weekend. The ‘Cats were scheduled to run at the NC State meet in Raleigh, but a damaged course led to
a canceled meet. Not to be stopped, the ‘Cats traveled to Rock Hill, SC, and raced five miles against over
thirty teams at the Winthrop Invitational. Davidson tied with VMI for fifth among the Division I schools. Wake Forest won,
followed by Clemson, UNC, and Furman. Senior Brent Ferrell placed fifth overall at 25:10. Seniors Pat Burchett (26:31) and William
Isenhour (26:54) completed the ‘Cats’ top three. Freshman cake race winner Jimmy Swansbrough finished fourth for the team at 27:08.
Senior Steve “Snake” Johnston finished fifth at 27:31. Sophomore Dan Gibson (28:07), freshman Brad Becken (28:17), freshman Andrew Schoewe (28:21),
senior Thomas McElveen (28:29), and sophomore Jay Jahnes (28:33) rounded out the Wildcat top ten. Close on their heels were
senior Scott Hutchins (28:43), sophomore Miles Harmon (28:47), junior Keith Chapman (28:52), sophomore Joel Hanisek (29:14), and sophomore Jacob McClean
(31:45).

While minor injuries slowed several of the top runners, Coach Gary Andrew was pleased with the team’s performance. “It’s great
to see some of the younger guys put in good races and close the gaps in the team,” said Andrew.
McElveen added, “I’m glad that some of the younger guys are picking up some of the slack left by some
of our team’s more seasoned runners. It’s a great credit to the depth of our team, and I’m optimistic about
the men pulling together these next few weeks in order to make a strong run at the conference title.”

Next weekend, the ‘Cats travel to the Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia, to preview this year’s conference course.

“The man, the voice, the spirit of the Wildcats... ...Davidson radio broadcaster Frank Santore (‘81) has challenged the Davidson community:
If Davidson athletics draw a combined attendance of 100,000 during ’98-’99, “Tillett Bobby Vagt shave my head...” Have you ever
been offered a greater incentive to uproot yourself from the library?
