ALE ON, DA. LU: x

DAVIDSON COLLEGI ru!

“Davidson College’s
Foremost College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

The State of the Grey Student
Union Address

NEWS 4

Vandalism? Bad?
OPINIONS 9

SEX WEEK!

A&L 8

Exacting revenge!

SPORTS 12

Tearing up the former Whittle Track

etherington

Foster Haselden and Dane
Erickson inaugurated

By Laura McCandlish
Staff Writer

On last Tuesday night, in the Home Room of
the College Union, Foster Haselden ’00 was inau-
gurated as Davidson’s Student Government Asso-
ciation (SGA) president. He is the College’s
fourth SGA president from South Carolina. The
South Carolinian tradition began under past presi-
dent Warren Buford in 1996, then Buster Burke in
1997, and finally, Ann Harriott Fisher ’99, who
recently completed her term as the 1998 president.
Haselden has served as class president since his
freshman year. The three presidents who served
before him also attended the inauguration. Haselden
said, “It really meant a lot to have them there. All
the past presidents I had served under.”

Fisher introduced Haselden, whom she has
known since their days together at Dreher High
School in Columbia, SC. Haselden said, “Ann has
been a good friend since high school. I had fun
working with her on SGA and getting to know her
even better.”

The main theme of Haselden’s speech was
viewing the SGA as a vehicle of service. “I see
SGA as a form of service to our college, our
community, and our friends,” he said. He empha-
sized the importance of friendships, saying, “Our
friends get us where we are in the world. Anytime
you are in a position to pay them back and help
them out, it is almost your duty.”

Haselden’s speech touched on four main
points. First of all, to listen to one’s friends. Next,
he talked about viewing SGA as a problem solver.
He also stressed the importance of increasing SGA
senator accountability. Finally, he emphasized the
need to see SGA resolutions to completion. “I
hope the SGA will be able to respond to any
student concerns or problems,” Haselden said.

Continued on page 4

Honor Council first se-
mester hearing review

By Lee Ann Petry and Asa Hercules
Honor Council Member and Honor
Council Chair

The Honor Council is pleased to report that
there were only four hearings during the Fall 1998
semester. This number compares favorably to the
12 hearings the Honor Council heard during the
Fall 1997 semester and the usual semester average
of six hearings. Additionally, there were no trials
during the Fall semester exam period.

In two of the four hearings, the student turned
himself/herself into the Dean of Students’ office.
In the other two hearings, a faculty member re-
ported the violation. Violations included cheat-
ing, plagiarism, and using false identification on
Patterson Court to obtain alcohol. Sanctions ranged
from a written letter of apology to an “F” in the
class where the cheating occurred, three autho-
rized withdrawals, and a semester suspension.
One hearing was appealed to the Review Board. A
student may appeal to the Review Board if he or
she feels that the evidence upon which he or she
was found guilty was not clear and convincing,
that there were substantial prejudicial errors in the
procedure, or that the sanction was inappropri-
ately severe. The Review
Board is composed of
three faculty members
and two students selected
from the student body. In
this case, the Review
Board reduced the sanc-
tion by eliminating the
semester suspension.
The Honor Council
expresses its gratitude to
the student body and fac-
ulty for diligently work-
ing to uphold the Honor
Code at Davidson.
Honor Council articles
continued on page 3

OPINIONS
SPORTS.....

By Allison Sisk and Kells Hetherington
Head Copy Editor and Arts and Living Editor

Following nearly a decade of planning, reno-
vations to Richardson Field are now well under-
way. Major alterations, including new east stands,
remodeled west stands, an eight-lane track, and
improved field drainage, should be completed in
time for the 1999 football season.

Renovations of the west stands will bring the
structure in line with North Carolina handicap
regulations. In addition, improvements to the
existing stands involve public restrooms and team
dressing rooms. While both the east and west
stands date from the 1930s, the advanced deterio-
ration of the east stands made their replacement
the most cost-effective measure.

The demolition of the east stands also allows

The installation of the track will
account for $500,000 of the
project’s $1.3 million price tag.

for several other changes. The road in front of
Baker Sports Complex will be shifted and wid-
ened to allow for the addition of a sidewalk. New
east stands were also necessary for the track to
remain at Richardson Field while still accommo-
dating a regulation soccer field. In order to host the
Final Four Soccer Tournament in 1992, Davidson

Renovations to Richardson
Field should be completed
in time for the 1999 football
season.

had to remove several lanes from the inside of the
track to widen the sidelines of the field. The
renovation project includes a new eight-lane rub-
berized track to replace the current three asphalt
lanes.

The track installation alone accounts for
$500,000 of the project’s $1.3 million price tag.
The completion of the track is much anticipated
by Davidson’s track teams, who have been with-
out adequate facilities for years. According to
Associate Director of Athletics Robert Price,
$80,000 was raised for track restoration in the late
1980s, but conflicting interests over the uses of
the field complicated the project. Hopefully, the
renovated Richardson Field will better serve all of
its uses.

Bela Fleck rocks Love Auditorium

EDITORIAL 6
LETTERS

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036