THE DAVIDSONIAN | ASKIDNEGO@HOTMAIL.COM
September 10, 1999

IdnEgo—Relationship advice for friends and family, foes and lovers

Watch as IdnEgo, your unconscious lustful thoughts on one hand and conscious, morally aware thoughts on the other, navigate all of your troubled and worrisome relationships. Tune in each week to hear Freud’s psychoanalytic creations Id and Ego face off against each other as they offer their sage advice. Want to hear what IdnEgo have to say about your relationship dilemma? Send your questions to: AskIdnEgo@hotmail.com. (All inquiries will be kept confidential.) Please note: All “advice” offered in this column is purely for entertainment purposes and should not be considered professional clinical advice.

Dear IdnEgo,

It’s only the third week in school and I'm already having roommate problems! Generally, my roommate is a good guy—I really like him. But he and his girlfriend have a pretty active sex life that they feel is more important than my lifestyle. At least three or four times a week, I come back to my room to find a cheap hotel “Do Not Disturb” sign on the door which translates to “Hey—I’m busy. Come back in a few hours.” On the weekends, they don’t even seem to care if I’m in the room. They’ll come home late from a party and get right to business. I’ve hinted a few times that maybe they could find some other place or go over to his girlfriend’s room—but he doesn’t seem to get it. My roommate and I are good friends, but this could make for a really long year. Any suggestions?

—Getting a little sexually frustrated myself.

Dear “Getting a little sexually frustrated myself,”

Hey, buddy, you're looking at this all wrong—this is a great opportunity to exploit your roommate and his girlfriend—pictures come immediately to mind, but what are pictures without audio support? Video cameras can be hidden quite cleverly—trust me—and make for hours of viewing pleasure. Another approach would be to join in the festivities—did you ever think that they’re “doing it” on the weekend with you in the room as an invitation? Id does. If that’s not your style, the other obvious approach is the old “Two can play at that game,” and you start using the “Do Not Disturb” sign. Bottom line—this is not a big deal—just go with your gut—or something else. Have a ball, Id.

Dear “Getting a little sexually frustrated myself,”

You're on the right track by trying to talk to your roommate. You want to address this problem as soon as possible because dorm rooms get pretty small with unresolved issues floating around. Clearly, hinting around is not going to be enough. You’re going to have to spell it out for him. Don’t feel badly about this—you wouldn’t have to spell it out for him if he had taken the hints. But, there are a few helpful rules when tackling sensitive issues.

1. Pick a good time to bring up the problem. When is your roommate most agreeable? Is he a morning person? Does he like to chat at lunch? Pick that time when he is most likely to be in a good mood and accommodating. Also, make sure that neither of you will be rushed—you don’t want to bring up the subject and then have to cut it short because you have to run to class. It’s probably not a good time to talk right after he has had sex. Yes, he will be in a pretty good mood, but he won’t be too accommodating. And, even though my counterpart, Id, would suggest bringing it up immediately, it’s better to talk about how it is affecting you and your lifestyle rather than how much you hate hearing their grunts and moans. Throughout the conversation, remain objective and don’t get too emotional. A matter-of-fact approach is a much better way of keeping the problem non-threatening.

2. Bring some options to the table. If you are bringing up the problem, always come prepared with some options. That way you won’t simply be a complainer; instead you’ll be a problem-solver.

3. Negotiate well. Generally, you won't get everything that you want, and it’s important to remember that solutions always involve compromise. Know where your bottom line is and be prepared to give a little to get a little.while they're having sex, I would not recommend this strategy either.

2. Frame the issue in a non-threatening way. Just by bringing it up, he will probably be willing to give up a few things in discussing a solution.

5. If all else fails, you could go back to more obvious hints. Turn it into a game show: build a stage around his bed, invite a whole bunch of friends over, serve them popcorn and soda, and give each of them a rating card. Maybe if you embarrass your roommate and his girlfriend with a low score, they’ll take their activities elsewhere. However, if your roommate is a good guy, he should be a good enough guy to talk with you about it.

Best of luck.

Your friend,
Ego

The VAC starts off season with two new exhibits
By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

On Wednesday night, the Belk Visual Arts Center held a reception for anyone and everyone interested in seeing the two new exhibits. A number of students, faculty, and townspeople came to the event, which debuted the new faculty art exhibit and the William Tucker exhibit.

The faculty art exhibit displays the works of three Davidson faculty—Herb Jackson, Cort Savage, and Russ Warren. Jackson's collection displayed in the VAC consists of a number of “small paintings.” These paintings are oils done on birch paneling. Jackson’s work speaks through its color and texture. In some of his paintings, like “Return of Ulysses,” the colors suggest movement and structure. The contrast of dark and light in “Return of Ulysses” is striking, as the painting’s dark blues intrude upon the lighter colors. The painting's title reminds one of Homer’s epic, The Odyssey, in which Odysseus (in Latin, Ulysses), returns home to Ithaca to find his home ransacked by suitors desiring to marry his wife. In “Return of Ulysses,” Jackson has successfully captured the nature of that homecoming. In the painting’s contrasting dark and light qualities, one sees both the elation and the anger of Ulysses as he finds himself finally at home, but threatened by the suitors. From a visual standpoint, “Return of Ulysses” exemplifies the appearance of Jackson’s paintings. “Return of Ulysses” is both brilliantly colored and textured, as are the other “small paintings” in Jackson’s exhibit.

The meanings in Cort Savage's work come in their motion, quite literally. The two central pieces of Savage’s exhibit are both kinetic sculptures. They move, stand up, and dance a jig. At one moment, they are both surprising and interesting to watch. “One Spoke the Other Disintegrated” is one of the two kinetic sculptures in Savage’s four-piece exhibit (there are two entirely static works as well). To create “One Spoke,” Savage brought together a number of materials—shoe blanks, wood, rubber, fabrics, electronics, and motors. The sculpture, which hangs from the ceiling in a snake-like position, falls (if it can be called falling) when one enters the room. One really has to see it for oneself.

Russ Warren’s exhibit is entitled “Mare: A Work in Progress.” Warren’s paintings are very large, stretching to 48” x 72”. All but one of the paintings in this collection are generally similar in appearance. The one painting that departs from the others is smaller, but it still depicts horses. Each of the “Mares in Progress” are sharply colored, and each is strangely constructed. These mares are not realistic looking horses, but they are compelling to look at, especially considering the exhibit’s title. The mares, quite simply, appear so large as to be pregnant and in the progress of carrying a foal.

The other VAC gallery houses the work of William Tucker, an Englishman born in Cairo, Egypt in 1935. Tucker's collection here at Davidson is composed of a number of charcoal drawings and three sculptures. His sculptures are, at the same time, vaguely organic and disturbingly human. Faces seem to scream out of the sculpture, but these faces are only hinted at, and not clearly defined. Tucker's drawings resemble his sculptures. If one looks closely and patiently, faces and human forms emerge from the lines and the shading of Tucker’s untitled charcoals.

The two exhibits displayed in the VAC are open to all. For information on times of the exhibits, check the “On the Scene” section of the Arts & Living Page.

University of Wisconsin
Platteville Study Abroad Programs
Learn Your Way Around The World

* Study abroad in England, Japan, or Spain
* Courses in liberal arts and international business
* Fluency in a foreign language not required
* Home-stays with meals
* Financial aid applies (except for summer session)
* For tuition, room, board and field trips per semester (for Wisconsin residents/non-residents)
  * In London, England: $4,975/$5,275
  * In Nagasaki, Japan: $4,975/$5,275
  * In Seville, Spain: $6,475/$6,775

For further information contact:
Toll free: 1-800-342-1725
E-mail: StudyAbroad@uwplatt.edu
Web: http://www.uwplatt.edu/~studyabroad

Application deadlines:
* April 1 for summer session
* October 15 for spring semester
* April 30 for fall semester