2 ALEN DA.

| Bie ie, Caen Oe = NE

“The South’s Foremost

College Weekly” The Missing “Mc’s”

bd Additional freshman facebook pictures

ESTABLISHED 1914 NEWS 2

Bitterness...
And other advice!

OPINIONS 7

Freud-inspired relationship advice

A&L 11

INSIDE THIS WEEK

We’re nationally ranked?!?
Believe it.

SPORTS 13

IdnEGO

Johnston Gym transformation steadily progresses

By Drew Devore

The new center will also include a brand new
College Union. The union will house offices for

Staff Writer

Most students have known for some time that
plans were in the works for turning Johnston Gym
into the new College Union. The union will house
all of the major college organizations, and storage
and workspace for those that don’t have offices.
According to Brown, these offices won’t be any
larger than the ones at the current union, but they
will be “easy to find and very accessible.” Also included in the Union will be a new 900 Room, a
fitness center, a new Bookstore, and space for Davidson Outdoors, including an indoor climbing wall.

The target date for completing the construction is January 2001.

The formal ground-breaking ceremony for the new Center is slated for October 7, pending the Trustees’ approval.

The new Performing Arts Center will seat around 600 people divided up between two balconies and the floor. “It will be a wonderful theater,” College Union Director William Brown stated. “It will be a very intimate place to see a performance.” According to Brown, the new theater will make it much easier to put on larger and better performances than can be done currently in Love Auditorium. “There are many logistical and performance problems to using Love Auditorium. The new theater will eliminate these,” he added.

The project that most students have seen, however, are the backhoes that arrived in August to begin tearing down the old swimming pool and Public Safety offices. The pool is being demolished to make way for a new state-of-the-art theater that will be one of the centerpieces of the new Campus Center.

It will also include student and faculty mailboxes, and a copy center. The centerpiece of the Union will be the new Union Café, which will be housed in the center of the building, with tables and seating in an open atrium.

The target date for completing the construction is January 2001. Demolition of the old pool, which has been used for student storage since the new sports complex opened, was approved by the trustees at their spring meeting, and began in August. “When it is done,” said Brown, “it will impact the whole community. People will use this new space who wouldn’t think of using the Union now. They'll use it not because they have to, but because they want to.”

Davidson grad ‘Monitors’ dive

By Lauren Daniel
Staff Writer

Two hundred and forty feet under, with four tanks of air and other gear weighing 200 pounds, crews of scuba divers investigate the remains of the Union battleship, The Monitor. This is where '92 Davidson grad, Michael Ott, finds his dreams becoming reality.

The Monitor was the first iron battleship, dating back to January 30, 1862 and measuring 172 feet in length with a 42-foot beam. It was made famous in its battle with The Merrimac (renamed the Virginia) during the Civil War. This was the first battle between ironclad warships.

Please see ‘Monitor’ on page 3 for continuation

Lawrence Cann dons a well-deserved crown after this week’s amazing win. Article on page 16.

VAC receives generous donation

Adam Soto

The Visual Arts Center proudly displays its new Kenneth Noland piece. Article on page 10.

LETTERS

EDITORIALS........

OPINIONS.......

ARTS & LIVING...

SPORTS.......

INDEX

First Class Mail

U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

DEADLINES & AD RATES

All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles received after this deadline will not be edited or placed. These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s) or dropped off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks can be used if file is saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40
For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supersede the Friday deadline.