THE DAVIDSONIAN | Two weeks ago, Phil Reed wrote an article to The Davidsonian entitled “Lowering Our Standards for Sex”
in which he criticized the casual attitude towards sex so prevalent in our society and at Davidson. Kevin Zvargulis answered
Mr. Reed’s article with one of his own, claiming the latter had no right to impose his values on anyone
or pass judgment on the lives of others. This article questions the logic of Mr. Zvargulis’ claim, concluding that it
contradicts itself.

Mr. Reed ends his article with this exhortation: “We must stop lowering our standards to make life easier and more
convenient for us; we must regard sex as the significant and invaluable engagement that it truly is.” One can easily
draw the moral imperative from this statement: “One ought not trivialize sex” (that is, one must not treat it casually
or thoughtlessly, as Mr. Reed believes random hook-ups and “sex as conversation” indicate). Those who follow this maxim are more
morally laudable; those who do not follow are morally reprehensible. It is this statement of a moral imperative that Mr.
Zvargulis opposes. He retorts to Mr. Reed that he has “no right to impose his... values on anyone.” He later
states: “Some people choose to live their lives differently than you do, Mr. Reed, and you have no right to
pass judgment on them.” The message is quite clear. Mr. Reed cannot impose his values or pass judgment on anyone
else. Since it would be silly to assume Mr. Reed’s statement of a moral imperative is not an imposition of
his values on us, Mr. Reed’s statement is such an imposition. Clearly, there is no difference between the two imperatives;
each begins with a “one ought” or a “one ought not.” Therefore, Mr. Zvargulis, by couching his opposition of moral
imperatives in terms implying moral imperative, has nullified his argument.

This article questions the logic of Mr. Zvargulis’ claim, concluding that it contradicts itself. If Mr. Zvargulis’ argument applies only
to Mr. Reed, one can draw a moral imperative from Mr. Zvargulis’ article as well: “One ought not impose one’s
views upon others or pass judgment on them.” Those who do not pass judgment and impose values upon others are
morally commendable; those who do pass judgment and impose values on others are morally culpable. There are here two articles,
each stating a moral imperative for others to follow. But Mr. Zvargulis would have us believe that while his imperatives
are morally superior, Mr. Reed’s are not.

But he does not stop there. Rather, he states, right after his assertion that Mr. Reed has no right to
impose his values on others, that “Feeling superior to others breeds exclusivity and at its most dangerous level leads to
holocaust.” Mr. Reed does make a moral stand in his article, branding certain sexual actions and attitudes superior and others
inferior. But has Mr. Zvargulis not done the same? He has stated what should and should not be done, thus
designating morally superior actions (not imposing values) and morally inferior actions (imposing values). Mr. Zvargulis also uses much stronger language
in his article to refer to the moral reprehensibility of certain actions and attitudes. Mr. Reed calls the sexual conduct
of the President “inappropriate.” Mr. Zvargulis, however, calls the feeling of moral superiority he believes inherent in one’s imposing values
on others “evil,” a rare and forceful word in a culture where the opposite of “good” is “bad.” Thus, while
Mr. Reed might be said to assume the “appropriate” attitude in his article, Mr. Zvargulis would assume the “good” attitude
(as opposed to evil). Inasmuch as the gulf between the good and the evil exceeds that between the appropriate and
the inappropriate, Mr. Zvargulis has taken a position of moral superiority greater than that of Mr. Reed. Perhaps he should
be more attentive to his own warning.

Dan G. GIBSON

Clearing up a few misunderstandings rising from among the ranks of Davidson College, I feel it of the utmost importance
to respond to the letter from the last issue of The Davidsonian written by Kevin Zvargulis regarding Phil Reed’s moral
condemnation of mankind (sarcasm). I must begin by clearing up a few misunderstandings Mr. Zvargulis had about Phil Reed’s article.
The notions of moral superiority, of the imposition of fundamentalist beliefs, and of the labeling of individuals as evil appear
nowhere in the text or the tone of Mr. Reed’s article. Furthermore, Mr. Zvargulis’s insistence on answering claims that were
never there only displays his own insecurity with his inability to form a sound argument (which he aptly demonstrates). Don’t
put words in people’s mouths, Kevin. It’s not cool. He instead chooses to attack Mr. Reed’s personal beliefs rather than
his argument, which is ironically the very thing that Mr. Zvargulis claimed that no one has the right to do.

In reference to the Clinton issue, I would simply like to point out a few “errors” that were made by
Kevin. He quite nicely demonstrates Phil’s argument for him when he argues that getting a blowjob from an intern is
something that we have no authority to judge as right or wrong. That is simply Phil’s point: that the moral
relativism that pervades American society today is evident in our condoning and complacent attitudes towards sex. We don’t have to
condemn the President to feel strongly that what he did was wrong; but it is concerning that someone might think
it wrong that I cheat on an exam, or steal someone’s calculator, or lie about my age to get alcohol.
Oh yeah, that’s right; there’s an honor code at this school. Damn!

Mr. Zvargulis unfortunately fails to realize that if we all embraced his convenient, free, liberal, unconstrained, and morally void attitudes,
we would be in a society devoid of any moral compass. I am reminded of something that Edmund Burke once
said: “The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.”The triumph of evil
is for good men to do nothing.” If we adopt this approach to life, then people would have no right
to challenge what any other person believes or feels. No, I'm among Americans that are troubling to Mr. Reed. However,
the Clinton issue aside, one quote from Mr. Zvargulis really caught my attention: “Some people choose to live their lives
differently than you do, Mr. Reed, and you have no right to pass judgment.” How convenient for me since I
was a little not saying that sex should be an honor code violation (in case Kevin writes another letter); I’m
merely stating that Mr. Zvargulis’s view of the world lacks any delineation between right and wrong. Unfortunately, it is this
view, and not that of Phil Reed, that threatens the fabric of society. Under Kevin's interpretation of right and wrong,
even Hitler should not be judged as wrong, since he merely “chose to live his life differently” than the rest
of us. We have no right to judge his actions, right Mr. Zvargulis? Which brings me to my final point.
Sorry Kevin, but now I’m going to pass judgment on something you wrote. Equating Phil Reed’s article to a potential
harbinger of the next holocaust, and him to Adolf Hitler is one of the most disrespectful and unacceptable statements that
I have ever encountered. By abusing the memory of those who have suffered genocide and acts of ethnic cleansing, you
delegitimize and trivialize what they experienced to a degree that I can neither condone nor ignore. I hope, Mr. Zvargulis,
that “for the sake of humanity,” you never find yourself in a position of authority until you can find the
maturity to respect those who have gone through more than you could ever hope to comprehend. I am reminded of
something that Edmund Burke once said: “The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to
do nothing.” Kudos, Phil Reed.

KRISTEN TAYLOR

You’ve come a long way, baby

Rosenberg raised a battle cry for a restatement of the honor code. In the immortal words of our alma mater,
“Our founders loved thee/ gave their best to thee.” And the best that they could do was to begin the
legacy of honor. The Honor System officially began in 1910, but the self-governing of the student body has existed since
the beginnings of the college. It has always been the contention of the administration that the student body is responsible
enough to maintain order and justice on this campus. According to The History of Davidson College, in 1870 the students
voted to police their living quarters themselves as opposed to the faculty visiting each week. In former DC librarian Cornelia
Shaw’s book Davidson College, she points out that the Honor Council does not legally run the school. However, the decisions
of the Honor Council are powerful enough to sentence students to suspension or expulsion. As a student body, we need
to remember the power we have given to the Honor Council, and work to redefine that power if it does
not exemplify its true purpose.

In the last issue of the Davidsonian, David Bly in his article, I think Mr. Rosenberg raised some very good
points about the ridiculous nature some trials last year bordered upon, such as the Ryan Gist trial. Yet I wonder
if a strong, active code does not always verge on the ludicrous at times. Can any institution last this long
without significant revision? The Honor Code seems entrapped in rules from another generation, to the detriment of the current population
of Wildcats it is intended to serve. In traditional Davidson style, as a community we have one-upped the systems of
trust in America. For example, the vast, under-appreciated wilderness of the public library system has always enthralled me. For free,
the United States Government gives you, the citizen, a library card, which doubles in the real world for an ID.
In our campus library, there are no sensors or security devices and only about a hundred books are floating at
the end of the year out of our collection of over 400,000. Not only do we one-up the government but
we also feel compelled to improve upon private industry. In an age of self-defense classes, alarm systems and hidden cameras,
everyone goes to the movie store to rent videos. These huge movie rental conglomerations exist upon their merchandise circulation. True,
for most, you must fill out an application form so the company can track you down, but hey—they trust that
you will eventually return the movie, motivated by fines if nothing else. For $1, a fraction of the real-world price,
any Davidson student can rent a movie from the limited selection at the Davidson College Union Game Room! All you
need is your dollar and to sign your name. Why do these systems work? Because at heart, we still believe
in the virtue of trust. A Native American proverb states “the earth is not given to us, it is borrowed
from our children.” Davidson is not ours, but it is entrusted to us while we are a part of this
community, to improve and make better until it is entrusted to those for whom it had been entrusted before. Fellow
loyal sons and daughters of Davidson, let’s give the Honor Code the makeover it so badly needs. According to official
college literature, this school has been built upon the tradition of trust and honor. We have the solid foundation to
begin this renovation as the new millennium beckons. The Honor Code has come a long way, but its greatest challenge
will be effectively adjusting to accommodate the students of today and tomorrow.
