_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Pisces (February 18 - March 20)
You are physically flawless, Pisces, from your bubbly blue eyes to your toes which curl so appealingly in the sand. Beware of treadmills and Virgos who wish you harm. Make an effort to stop sitting alone in your room making faces at yourself. Emphasis on Brazilian Portuguese and the media.

Aries (March 21 - April 19)
Today is your day, Aries. Approach any member of the opposite sex and say, “I’m hot. You’re hot. I want you and you want me, so let’s go, Baby.” Watch out for that obligatory piece of toilet paper that always seems to be stuck to your shoe because this lessens your stock value.

Taurus (April 20 - May 19)
Be the Ball, Taurus. Emphasis on golf and tennis, sushi, and lost legal documents. Don’t let your fun-loving nature get in the way of serious and important business. Take the bull by the horns but beware of angry bees on the 6th.

Gemini (May 20 - June 20)
Issues arise concerning any pets or credit cards in your possession. You will be held responsible for a skinny man in a red coat driving a 5-speed with Illinois license plates that mysteriously becomes parked in your driveway. Beware of peeping neighbors. Maintain creative control at all costs. Aquarius plays a negative role.

Cancer (June 21 - July 21)
Spotlight on luck with added emphasis on a porn scandal that would make your mother cry. Display of gratitude from a grateful blue-collar worker. Your pensive nature is eased with special attention to rhythm, style, and tempo.

Leo (July 22 - August 22)
Your penchant for placing photographs of yourself in key spots around your dorm room is beginning to annoy your friends and neighbors. You will be lucky in love on the 15th. Watch out Leo, there’s a spotlight on Scorpio, fine cuisine, and security. Try to leave your emotional shell behind.

Virgo (August 23 - September 21)
A famous Libra will make all your dreams come true. Beware of alternative medicine and bird poop hurtling through the air in the direction of you and/or your freshly washed car.

Libra (September 22 - October 22)
The stars say that since Jupiter is aligned perfectly with Saturn you will experience some turbulence around the 18th. Don’t worry, though, because people are interested in you. Your stock value is up and employment opportunities for the future abound.

Scorpio (October 23 - November 21)
Congratulations on newfound love, Scorpio. Begin saving $100 a month so that your future spouse can get cosmetic surgery upon his/her 40th birthday. You'll be glad you did. The planets dictate a long road trip for you that will end happily, but beware of furry woodland creatures by the side of the road.

Sagittarius (November 22 - December 20)
The Sun makes you hot and tan while the Moon gives you that exciting romantic feeling. You feel compelled to choose, but be certain not to jeopardize your sanity in the process. Free advice is everything.

Capricorn (December 21 - January 19)
Lock ‘n Load Boy Scout, it’s “Go Time!” You have a penchant for photography. Beware of overexposure. Be prepared for a sudden and important shower. Pray for clear skies.

---

Lolita Davidovich, Colm Meaney, Russell Crowe, and Mary McCormack
Hollywood Pictures

Movie PREVIEW

Hollywood Pictures

Cast: Russell Crowe, Hank Azaria, Mary McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, Rod Eldard, Colm Meaney, Maury Chaykin, and Burt Reynolds
Director: Jay Roach
Producers: David E. Kelley
Executive Producer: Dan Kolsrud
Written by: David E. Kelley & Sean O’Byrne

The remote and isolated Mystery, Alaska — a little town on the outskirts of greatness — may look cold and unexciting from the outside, but inside, behind closed doors, Mystery has all the sex scandals, hidden secrets, prying eyes, and political hypocrisies of any urban den of iniquity. And, it has a darn good hockey team. In a town where everybody knows everybody else’s business, a human interest story in a national magazine suddenly thrusts the village into the world spotlight. When the town’s amateur hockey team accepts the challenge of a face-off against the New York Rangers, the entire population must put petty rivalries behind them and prove there is no mystery to “Mystery, Alaska.”

---

Crossword solutions

president: will thompson
social vice president: kirk willinham
co-curricular vice president: peter martin
women’s issues: ann culp
davidson outdoors: kurt yusi
video: mike gillespie

Pancake Breakfast
Come eat some delicious pancakes and sign up to be on a union board committee
Thursday, March 11 at Midnight 900 Room

Women’s Month opening ceremony featuring: the delilahs dance troupe
7:30pm 900 Room

900 room: David PISSING: at large: christopher brantley, cultural events: Nena rasned
literary arts: lindsay hughes, ben carter, jennifer madden, cody ruxton
campus forums: cameron richardson