_ THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING

Japanese Flowering Crabapple flourishes as the Tree of the Week

By BRIAN CAMPBELL
Tree Guy

Over the next several weeks, the campus will be filled with the colors of blossoming plants. Spring is the time
that these plants proudly display their full beauty. The flowers are soft and fragile, yet they explode with color. Their
fragrant perfumes fill the air and draw us near. This week, we celebrate the Japanese flowering crabapple (Malus floribunda). Dozens
of these trees surround the library and embrace it with white and pink blooms.

The crabapple family is richly varied, with approximately 500 varieties in this country alone. These trees cross-pollinate more easily than
most, and new cultivars are constantly developed as diverse parents spread their nectar. The Japanese flowering crabapple is recognized as
the variety against which all others are measured. It grows well in a range of climates and soil types and
is slightly more resistant to disease than other crabapples. Consequently, the Japanese flowering crabapple is particularly popular in the South,
where fireblight and woolly aphids are prevalent. Davidson’s trees are quite healthy thanks to the attention and care of the
Physical Plant.

The crabapple is indeed a close relative of the apple tree. Both share the same genus, Malus, and generally, the
type is determined by the size of the fruit. If the fruit is less than 2" in diameter, it is
a crabapple, and if it is more than 2" in diameter, then it is classified as an apple. The fruits
of the Japanese flowering crabapple are quite small; as a result, they are quickly eaten by birds, squirrels, and other
campus critters. Compare these tiny fruits to the plum-sized crabapples that hang in large bunches on the trees at the
entrance to campus near the Baker Sports Complex.

Of course, it is the beautiful flowers of the crabapple that are the focus of our attention this week. Their
buds are deep pink, rich with anticipation, and as they open in full bloom they radiate with soft, white petals.
Notice the range of colors. Behind the library, the trees bloomed earlier and are more pink in color. These displays
of floral color are enhanced because they contrast with the light green of emerging new leaves. This tree’s branches are
crowded and irregular, creating a dense crown of color reaching upward from the scaly-barked trunks.

Spring is a season to celebrate the blossoming of trees and plants and the colorful transformations in all of life.
Too often, we measure our gifts within common categories. We seek success, but seem to fail. We seek perfection, but
fall short. We seek affirmation, but feel criticized. We do not always bear plump fruits, and we feel like crabapples
in a world that values Granny Smith and Red Delicious. Yet even the crabapple is gifted with colorful blooms. Rather
than measure the size of our fruit, let us celebrate the small ways we are blossoming this spring. Give thanks
for the flower opening in all life.

Breakfast
The Soda Shop
Since 1951

Breakfast Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes
French Toast

Open 7 Days
Eat-in
Take-out

Humor, fun, and good ol’ Rock ’n Roll in the 900 Room

By Seth Davis
Arts & Living Editor

The lights in the 900 Room were dim, the stage lit in a wash of red. It was Monday, March
22 and Dan Bern was in town. By 9:00 PM the audience was assembled. Dan Bern entered fifteen minutes later
to a generous applause. Clad in a sleeveless shirt, head shaven, he did not immediately call up images of Bob
Dylan, appropriately, for many fans often draw comparisons between the two artists’ music. Bern was composed as he picked up
his guitar and began to play. Nothing in his early demeanor suggested the antics that were soon to come. After
a few songs Bern began to play to the crowd. The first part of the concert was laced with humorous
comments about himself, his music, Davidson, the audience, anything which occurred to him. One of the highlights of the show
came when Bern introduced a new almamater for Davidson College. Few members of the audience actually knew the alma mater,
but those who did provided a stirring rendition for everyone else. Bern had written the new alma mater during his
day at Davidson and it went a little something like this:

Davidson’s New Alma Mater

Who is David? Who is David’s son?
And why does he have a college named after him?
I have never had a college named after me, after me.
Davidson College, Oo (repeated)
-Dan Bern

Though this alma mater will probably never be adopted by the college, Bern used it to get the audience involved
in the concert. His greatest talent—beyond his musical ability—was his ability to get the audience involved and having fun. The
whole audience learned Bern’s new alma mater. After everyone had learned it, he divided the audience along even and odd
birthdates. One section of the audience sang the first three lines while the other sang the last four lines. Once
the melodies were harmonized (or as close as possible), Bern invited a number of people to learn the dance that
accompanies the singing of the Davidson alma mater. The dance should never appear again. Anywhere. Unless it appears in conjunction
with the Davidson alma mater. Bern encouraged the audience to sing it at football games in order to entertain the
alumni. That might, or might not, backfire. It certainly would be funny.

Dan Bern was certainly funny. His on-stage comments, in conjunction with the crowd involvement, were all very entertaining. Most humorous
of all were his lyrics—not to say that his songwriting was poor, rather, his songs dealt with their subject matter
in innovative and satirical ways. From his assertion that Einstein was wrong, to his suggestion that human beings are the
offspring of monkeys and aliens, Bern brings a unique point of view to highly complex and controversial issues—from the value
of science to the issue of evolution. In one of his most unusual songs, Bern describes a meeting between a
human being and God. In this meeting, the human being discovers that Moses changed the Commandments, leaving out the commandment
regarding moose. Bern’s sense of the satirical is certainly an individual one. In the end, however, his songwriting is not
as compelling as his delivery. His words are not as strong as his on-stage performance capabilities. On stage, Dan Bern
shined. He may have played for bigger crowds before, but the small size of the 900 Room and its audience
did not seem to deter him in the slightest. He is not graced with a traditional voice, but his voice
does have a power in its uniqueness. The greatest portion of Dan Bern’s artistry lies, however, in his ability to
engage an audience in the moment which he fills with a unique brand of music.

On the Scene at Davidson College

Coffeehouse. Keep that coffee flowing. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
CROP Lunch. Eat crop. 11:45 a.m. -
Senior Art Major and Naoto Nakagawa Exhibits. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the Belk Visual Arts Center.
Jumpin’ Java. If the coffeehouse wasn't enough, we have this! 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.
Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Seth Alley should be there. What more reason do you need? 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the
900 Room.
Concert with Joe Robin. Go see Joe in Hodson Hall from 7:30 - 9:00 p.m.
Climbing Wall. Go climb. 1:30 p.m. - 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
Kayak Rolling. Stowe will be there, rolling, rolling, rolling; getting them doggies rolling! 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. at Baker Sports
Complex.
Go Home!

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
SATURDAY
Amnesty International. Keep an eye out for these good people doing good things. 9:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m. in the
first floor of Chambers. They'll be there tomorrow, too.
“Annie Hall” Good movie. Go see it. Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
SGA Phonathon. 2 slots-- 5:45 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. and 7:15 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. in the basement of the
Student Health Center.
FILM--”ANNIE HALL” End your week here at Davidson on a bang! Go see Annie, in her hall! Showing at 9:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.
It’s a holiday!
