Domestic and international news briefs 3/12/99 — 3/19/99
By Derek Poolitzer
Staff Writer

Friday, 3-12-99: NATO expanded its size to 19 members, as Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic became its newest additions.
The U.S. Navy said that those soldiers who refuse anthrax vaccinations will be punished.

Saturday, 3-13-99: A conference on U.S.-African relations brought Congolese President Laurent Kabila to Washington, the first such visit to the
U.S. since rebels launched a war against his government. Religious violence between Christians and Muslims continued in Ambon, Indonesia, leaving
one dead and scores injured. Asheville, NC became the newest front in the abortion war, as a powerful bomb, which
only partially detonated, rocked an abortion clinic. President Clinton announced his plan to reduce police brutality through a $42 million
initiative which would increase minority recruitment and demand greater police integrity.

Sunday, 3-14-99: Ecuador announced that it would open its banks Monday (3/15) to the public, as it braced for a
possible “avalanche” of withdrawals. The Turkish press blamed PKK separatists for the recent spate of firebombings in Istanbul. The U.S.
prison population reached a record in 1998 with 1.8 million inmates. Only Russia currently has a larger prison population. One
out of every 150 residents in the U.S. is currently behind bars. U.S. National Security Adviser Sandy Berger dismissed rumors
that he would resign and defended his handling of China’s access to U.S. nuclear secrets.

Monday, 3-15-99: The CIA announced that an independent panel would determine the amount of damage that the recent Chinese spying
fiasco at Los Alamos Lab in New Mexico caused. The allegations that a Taiwanese spy passed on sensitive nuclear weapons
technology to China resulted in a “political firestorm” in Washington and marred Sino-U.S. relations. The European Union’s executive commission quit
en masse Monday, resulting in a political crisis for the European Union. House Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt endorsed his former
chief rival presidential candidate Al Gore. A recent study released Monday revealed that second grade children who play the piano
and/or interactive computer games tend to master more complex math problems with which many fourth graders struggle.

Tuesday, 3-16-99: After the release of the truth commission’s report detailing the army’s culpability in the slaughter of thousands of
villagers, the Guatemalan government refused to “purge” the officers involved but praised the document’s honesty. For the first time in
the Dow’s history, the stock market indicator jumped above the 10,000 point mark before falling just short of it before
the day’s close. Thirteen people were killed when an Amtrak passenger train crashed into a truck loaded with steel bars
in Illinois. Publisher Steve Forbes announced his candidacy for the presidency on the Internet, promising to launch a “new information
age campaign.”

SAE’s fate rests on appeal
Continued from previous page

Unless the appeal to President Vagt reverses the decision made by the Dean of Students’ office two weeks ago, SAE
will be unable to participate in College life throughout the next school year and will face some minor obstacles when
trying to return to campus in fall of 2000.

“The sanctions that were originally given to them were threefold,” said Jim Barber, the Patterson Court advisor. Besides the suspension
of their chapter activities, it was also specified during the hearing that SAE must comply with certain rules before it
is allowed to return to campus. Barber said that in order to return to campus, the house “must develop a
plan that assesses the programming, operations, and membership practices, and they need to do that in conjunction with their national
headquarters.” In addition, SAE would have to settle all of its debts with the College before being allowed to resume
their chapter activities at Davidson.

Although SAE would still be allowed on campus if the incident had not occurred in January, Shandley emphasized the fact
that SAE’s punishment was the result of several infractions of school policy that have happened within the past year. “You
don’t get asked to leave campus just on one incident alone,” he said. “The incident wasn’t in isolation.” He explained
that a prior violation in Spring of 1998 and a charge of pledges vandalizing another fraternity were also considered when
the sanctions against SAE were formulated.

Some of the members of SAE, however, were disturbed by the severity of the punishment. “I was shocked, to say
the least,” said Ting. “We knew that what we did was wrong, but we did not think that (the sanctions)
would be as severe. I was greatly disappointed by the whole turn of events.” Ting felt that he represented the
feelings of many other members of SAE. Ting also emphasized that in their attempts to appeal, SAE was not “trying
to undermine the authority of the administration or Dean Shandley.” He said, “Instead, we’re just trying to do what’s best
for our fraternity.”He added later, “We understand the liability (of the College), but the punishment does not fit the crime.”
Ever since the decision made during the hearing, no members of SAE have had access to the house, and they
will be unable to use the house until the College has permitted them to return to campus or until the
appeal is approved. Barber, however, has not decided what purpose the unoccupied house will serve. “I’m not sure what the
use for the building will be next year,” he said. Because SAE is making an appeal, he feels it would
be “premature” to make such a decision.

Responses to the incident have been varied. Megan O’Brien, president of the Patterson Court Council (PCC), expressed the PCC’s stance
on the issue, saying, “we support College policy and North Carolina state law.” When asked how the recent events affected
him, Barber said, “I’m disappointed that this incident took place, but I’m committed to working with those who remain.” When
referring to the decision, Shandley wanted to assure students that the measures were taken to protect the students at Davidson
from the dangers of hazing. “First of all, this is not some kind of institutional conspiracy to make life harder
on eating houses or fraternities,” he said. Praising the houses on Patterson Court, Shandley continued, “We’ve been bragging about the
new PCC standards.” Shandley also felt, however, that the sanctions brought against SAE reinforce “the notion that we take a
very serious stance on pledge activities that go against the rules for the safety of our students.”

SAE has been on Davidson’s campus for 116 years. Shandley feels that the chapter will probably return in the fall
of the year 2000, although he said, “It’s up to SAE more than anything.” SAE may not even be forced
to vacate their house if they win their appeal, the results of which will be known at the end of
next week.

Wednesday, 3-17-99: Belgrade massed troops in and around Kosovo in what appeared to be the start of a new offensive
tactic by the Serbs in the conflict. The peace talks neared collapse as the Serbs refused to sign the peace
accords. Marijuana, according to the latest U.S.-commissioned study, may be one of the most effective treatments to reduce pain caused
by AIDS and cancer. A two-star U.S. Army general, who lied about his affairs with the wives of subordinate officers,
was fined $22,000 but avoided a prison sentence. The U.S. Senate voted almost unanimously Wednesday to deploy a national missile
defense system as soon as technology allows for its development.

Thursday, 3-18-99: The United States urged all U.S. citizens to leave Yugoslavia Thursday as NATO strikes loomed. NATO said that
it was prepared to strike Serb targets “very quickly.” A new study concluded that smog and other forms of air
pollution can cause asthma in children and have other long-term effects on children’s lungs. The study conducted in Southern California
also revealed that pollution affects girls’ breathing more than boys’ breathing. Philadelphia announced that it may seek compensation from tobacco
companies for fires started by lit cigarettes.

MARCH 23, 1999: An Akron, Ohio court ruled against labor unions and welfare insurance firms’ class action suit against three
tobacco companies. The court found that these companies did not significantly manipulate the levels of nicotine in their cigarettes.

Friday, 3-19-99: The peace talks over the conflict in Kosovo collapsed Friday, as the Serb delegation refused to follow the
Albanians’ lead in signing the U.S.-brokered peace accord. Subsequently, President Clinton briefed Congress about possible NATO air strikes against Serb
targets and again warned Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic that his rejection of peace justified military action. South African President Nelson
Mandela announced a breakthrough in the Libyan-U.S. conflict over President Gaddafi’s refusal to hand over two suspects in the airliner
bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland. According to the compromise, Libya will allow the two men to stand trial in the Netherlands,
which is seen as a neutral country. A powerful bomb ripped through a crowded market in Vladikavkaz, Russia, killing more
than 60 people and wounding another 100. Although no group claimed responsibility for the blast, Russian officials believed the terrorist
attack was carried out by “religious fanatics” who are seeking to destabilize the country. Amidst a growing concern that the
spread of citrus canker disease in Florida will seriously harm the state’s $8 million industry, President Clinton declared a citrus
emergency. In so doing, he authorized the Agriculture Secretary to appropriate more funds to eradicate canker disease.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
WESLEY Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

Founded in 1914
“Interstate-77’s Foremost College Weekly”
You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
