THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

An emphatic go on coed eating houses

Own about First Night Down? Fraternities not your thing? Frustrated by Davidson’s social scene? Listen up. Dane Erickson and Ben Carter are here to help. In an effort to resurrect a student movement that fizzled three years ago, the junior duo called a meeting Thursday night in the Union to discuss the idea of a coed eating house. Some 25 people showed up to air their grievances and help construct a better plan for the future.

“For guys,” Carter said, “the only options are to join a fraternity or be independent. A lot of guys would like to be on the Court but don’t embrace fraternities and what they might mean.” Guys like freshman Josh Brown. “An eating house would be a lot more mellow than a fraternity,” he explained. “I'd be looking for something where you could just hang out and not get drunk all the time.”

“I really love the eating houses,” said Melissa Johnson, a sophomore. “At the same time, I wish I could spend more time with my guy friends.”

“I miss the atmosphere of the Commons,” classmate Rachel Smith added. “I want to see my guy friends. There isn’t anything like that on the Court.”

Freshman Lamar Clarkson was more to the point. “I’m here,” she said, “because I don’t want to eat all the time with a bunch of girls.” Seems like a reasonable request for anyone who’s completed junior high — let alone a college student.

“I really think there’s a need for something like this,” said Erickson, a soccer star who doubles as student body vice president. “I’ve been here for two years. The Court satisfies some people, but not everybody. The idea of girls and boys hanging out together, eating together, partying together, well, it’s revolutionary.” At least at Davidson it is. The school went coeducational in 1972.

A Kruse Spotlight
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

A quarter century later, the administration finally approved coed dorms — men and women living in the same building. The move has made a marked difference in easing some of the gender tensions on this campus. As a freshman in 1995-96, I lived with guys, ate with guys, drank with guys, hung out with guys. Starting with the Class of 2001, though, that changed. I credit the coed dorms.

Coed eating houses, on the other hand, have been here before. There were four of them on Patterson Court in the late 1970s and early to mid-1980s. After seeing the coed dorms bear fruit, coed eating houses should be high on the administration’s gender relations checklist.

“I see it as a real absence now,” said German professor Scott Denham, the lone faculty member who showed up Thursday night. “I’m very interested in supporting this in any way I can.” As well he should be. Denham did his undergraduate studies at the University of Chicago. But his wife was a member of a Davidson coed eating house from 1982-84.

“I'd like to meet my future wife at a coed eating house,” junior Matt Clifford quipped. “I'd like to have a mix of both testosterone and estrogen.” Easier said than done.

“The college has not gone out of its way to put a coed eating house on the Court,” Denham told the student gathering. “It should be in no way your responsibility alone to have to come up with the money. I don’t think it’d be out of line for you to demand subsidies for the first three years or something like that.

“It's going to take an activist approach. There’s nothing wrong with being aggressive. I think you're going to have to play hardball with the administration.”

According to Carter, the process is admittedly “hazy.” Forty people must show serious interest for the administration to even take the proposal seriously. And 40 people means 40 people willing to put down an initial deposit of roughly $100. Then, and only then, will the administration talk.

The coed eating house group also needs a blessing from the Patterson Court Council and an official endorsement from the Committee on Campus and Religious Life, Davidson's presidential advisory board. Ultimately, it’s President Bobby Vagt’s decision.

“Insist on showing up at PCC meetings,” Denham advised. “Get on CCRL’s good side. And the real tight group for this has to be first- and second-year students. I think you need to go for it — and go for it hard.”

But go where? Pax is a possibility. But two other organizations — off-campus fraternity Phi Gamma Delta, a.k.a. FIJI, and the International Students Association — also want the Court house.

But none of the three will get it if the new dorm isn’t ready by August. Construction crews are scheduled to demolish Lingle and start building across from Richardson in October. Pax is a residential area right now. It'll stay that way — it'll have to — if the new dorm doesn’t materialize at warp speed in coming months. And even if everything falls into place for Carter, Erickson, and Company, Pax would still need massive — and pricey — renovations to become an eating house with a large enough working kitchen.

The Outpost, meanwhile, will move to the palatial Knobloch Student Center come January 2001 — or whenever the new union actually ends up opening. When that happens, the current Outpost will be vacant. It could conceivably house Davidson’s coed Court eating facility.

And one more option: The banished brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon are allowed to return to campus next fall. The house formerly known as SAE is technically open. But it’s SAE’s to lose. Also, in order to serve alcohol, a house on the Court must have a $1 million insurance policy. That kind of money can certainly throw a wrench in the works.

“It’s not going to be easy,” Erickson said. “For any proposal to go anywhere, we're going to need a lot of support from a lot of people — and we're going to need to do it quickly.”

But keep this in mind: At least in the beginning, a coed eating house should be more a concept than a physical structure. In the spring — heck, even later this semester — “members” of a coed eating house could get together for meals at the Outpost. Or the Commons. Or anywhere. Even at a restaurant once a week. To foster solidarity. To raise awareness. To get to know each other. Just to get the ball rolling. And to shake things up within this school’s stagnant, largely still sex-segregated social scene.

The Student GovernmentAssociation is putting out a student poll tomorrow. Is a coed eating house a good idea? Take time to fill it out. Erickson’s number is x6250. Carter's is x6472. Pick up the phone. Or use e-mail. Either way, make this happen.

Killings at Wedgwood Baptist: A Tainted Sanctuary?

God Bless America. I think. Normally, such an unpatriotic sentiment would never enter my mind, let alone flow carelessly from my lips. As expected, most decent American citizens would readily criticize anyone who cast doubts upon the unfettered freedom and prosperity which living in the United States affords them. For the past week and a half, however, I have been torn asunder, endlessly struggling with my identity, faith, and beliefs. I would like to think that I have a valid excuse to call my country into question, though. Where else would lunacy consume a man so much as to manipulate him to walk into a church and methodically kill seven people before turning the gun on himself?

On September 15, Larry Gene Ashbrook, a lonely and tormented soul with a lengthy history of mental illness, made the national headlines. Something he always wanted to accomplish, I guess. But now, unfortunately, nobody will ever be able to determine his motive. Not the police, not the FBI, not even the pastor at Wedgwood Baptist Church. Unable to question Ashbrook himself, the nation now turns its eyes heavenward for a modicum of divine intervention. Why? Why would God instill so much hate inside the heart of one man? Why, Lord, why?

We can be mad at God all we want. We can even refuse to go to church, perhaps the most effective way Christians can “strike” against their religion. I must admit that I tried this ploy last Sunday. I let God know exactly how I felt. If He deemed it necessary for seven of His children to die, then I naively assumed it would be logical to abandon my ties to Him for a week or so. Somehow I actually convinced myself that this fatuous action was the only rational solution. How oblivious I was to ignore the writings in The Bible. In the Scriptures, Peter implores us to endure throughout all suffering, for there is a greater goal which will ultimately be attained as a result: “Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you are suffering, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed... if you suffer as a Christian, do not be ashamed, but praise God that you bear that name... those who suffer according to God’s will should commit themselves to their faithful Creator and continue to do good” (1 Peter 4:12-19).

Yeah, that makes sense. I guess. Maybe this is just a perverted twisting of the Presbyterian doctrine of irresistible grace. Maybe it is just one of “God’s wonders” that I'll never fully understand. I wonder if poor Lori Laird of Fort Worth can derive anything out of that Biblical caveat. Like me, she is not an ordained minister and is probably easily confused by such esoteric Biblical polemics. Her 16-year-old son, Justin, is still paralyzed from a bullet which lodged in his spine during Ashbrook’s senseless rampage. “Anything is possible in Christ,” she recently said in an interview with the Dallas Morning News. “It is the Lord Jesus Christ who has been getting us through all this.” I admire Mrs. Laird. She is blessed with an unconditional trust and love for Christ, something which I regretfully lack at times. Her son is alive, but might never be able to walk again. So that’s better than being dead, right? But I wonder how Justin feels as he lies in pain, confined to a hospital bed, now that three of his friends are dead. He is surely blaming himself for not doing enough to prevent the killings. Why, God, am I alive when they are dead? Even more rhetorical questions.

So, where do we go from here? As devout Christians, what steps come next? At Wedgwood Baptist Church, members and neighbors are still in mourning, evidenced by the nearly 10,000 people who showed up for a prayer vigil last Sunday night, the day the church reopened for “business.” The business of guiding willing Christians to the light. In the great commission, Christ tells us that he shall be with us always until the end of the age. For the seven killed, they are in His hands now, finding new peace in the confines of His kingdom. Christ is surely with them. Let’s just hope He will find a way to comfort those who survived the massacre.

I am angry at God, but even more upset at myself for failing in my mission as a Christian. My faith is not yet strong enough to cope with tragedy, ones which blur my vision of Jesus Christ. I can only hope that one day my calling, my conviction, will crystallize. Maybe then I will understand why bad things happen to good people. Until then, though, one must keep the faith and press on, like Job, despite the trials. Right now I just take consolation in the fact that Ashbrook pulled the gun on himself, for God certainly would have condemned him to purgatory come Judgment Day. Ashbrook always claimed that government agents were following him, that people were trying to kill him, and that the police wrongly suspected him of being a serial killer (which he is). I have a so-called conspiracy theory, too, Larry — there is no such thing as “Sanctuary,” because God works in mysterious ways. Nobody is safe from the wrath of heathens, not even in church, which is quite disturbing because it conflicts with Jacob's reassuring declaration in Genesis: “How awesome is this place! This is none other than the House of God, and this is the gate of Heaven” (Genesis 28:17).

So, with our churches unsafe, where can Christians find refuge now? In Christ, as always. The classic metaphysical poet John Donne penned a comforting prayer while serving as Dean of St. Paul’s Cathedral (1621-1631) in London: “O Lord, never suffer us to think we can stand by ourselves and not need thee.” I plan to go to church on Sunday, and I encourage all Christians to follow suit. We must trust in Christ, regardless, even if grieving preachers’ sermons across the nation fail to illuminate why this unspeakable tragedy in Fort Worth occurred to His disciples. In God we trust. Right?

Matthew R. Fuller ’00