“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

Will Davidson College recycle again? E.A.C. has new program in the works.
NEWS 4

The debates continue
Scott Denham’s Libertas article and Griffith Street!
OPINIONS 6

Grace and elegance
NCDT Shines on stage!
A&L 8

Moving the H’O
Parting the water for another victory!
SPORTS 10

Buddhist monk Palden Gyatso, with his interpreter.
Anna Judy

By JESSICA MERING
Staff Writer

Buddhist monk Palden Gyatso spoke at Davidson College on Monday, November 8. Gyatso is a Tibetan who was imprisoned by
the Chinese for twenty-four years because he refused to acknowledge China’s claim on Tibet. Gyatso was released in 1992 partly
due to efforts of Amnesty International. Gyatso addressed the audience last week via a translator; he described the conditions of
Chinese internment camps and commented on his and fellow prisoners’ reactions towards them. His descriptions of Chinese torture devices and
methods were especially vivid; he sought to convey to the audience the price that Tibetans are willing to pay in
order to resist Chinese occupation. Gyatso described how, at any point during these tortures, the prisoner only had to admit
to Chinese officials that Tibet was a part of China in order to end the abuse. That many prisoners were
unwilling to do this demonstrates the Tibetans’ determination to preserve their national identity at any cost. More than one million
Tibetans have sacrificed their lives rather than submit to Chinese rule. Gyatso was released eight years ago and now seeks
to publicize the plight and perseverance of the Tibetan people. Gyatso smuggled a 33-kilo bag of torture devices out of
the Chinese prison; he uses them to illustrate to audiences what he went through. Although Gyatso has escaped the horror
of Chinese rule, many prisoners remain subject to the torture that continues in Chinese prisons. Last week, Gyatso encouraged the
audience members to educate themselves about the oppression occurring in Tibet and to use what resources they had to make
their disapproval heard. He recommended involvement with organizations such as Amnesty International and college-based Tibetan advocacy groups. Davidson’s Students for
a Free Tibet co-hosted Gyatso along with SGA, Amnesty International, and the Campus Forum group.

Students for a Free Tibet
See Tibetan Monk on page 4

Snazzy red bikes for all
By BRANDT MCMILLAN
Staff Writer

Aside from an in-Union ATM and a hot soup kettle, the Community Bike program is the newest addition to Davidson
College. You might have already noticed red bikes with a yellow tag in various locations around campus. If you see
someone cruise up to Chambers on one of these red bikes, then witness someone else hop on the bike and
roll to the P.O., don’t chase after them with a heartfelt recitation of the honor code. It is their bike,
and it’s yours too. Six bicycles, distinctly painted bright red, are now available for all students and faculty to use
at their convenience. The bikes are owned by the college community, and are hereHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

For the enjoyment of everyone. The idea of having community bicycles is not a new one. A couple of schools
out west have community bikes, and the city of Seattle has the “Yellow Bike Program.” This idea has been in
Davidson for a while, and now it is a reality. Dean of Students, Thomas Shandley, and Ed Daugherty of Davidson
Outdoors worked with the campus police to acquire the bikes. Every year the Davidson Police Force auctions off bicycles abandoned
by graduating seniors. This year, instead of an auction, the bikes were given to the college community to start the
bike program. The work-study students of Davidson Outdoors have put in a lot of hours getting the bikes ready to
go. Rob McKeehan ‘00, the D.O. bicycle repair guy, has tweaked and honed these bikes into riding condition over the
last several weeks. He painted them red all over, adjusted each one to fit an average-sized person, and made sure
all the components were functioning. Now they are ready to ride. When you are out zipping around on one of
the snazzy red bikes, just remember a few things. First, the bikes should be treated with respect and appreciated as
property of the community. Second, when you park it, make sure someone else can find it, and don’t be surprised
if it isn’t there when you come back. Thirdly, these are Davidson Col-

@ See New Bikes on page 3 @

The Wildcats finish with Mackie back, owing seasons powered by a dazzling defensive lineup. Story in Sports, page 12.

Professor Herb Jackson to receive N.C.’s highest artistic honor

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Governor Jim Hunt will present the state’s highest civilian honor, the North Carolina Award, to Davidson College teacher and abstract
painter Herb Jackson on Monday, Nov. 15. Jackson will receive the award in Fine Arts in a ceremony that also
honors eight other outstanding North Carolinians for their lifetime achievements in public service, literature, and science. Jackson is a 1967
Davidson graduate who has taught at the college since 1969. He served as chair of the art department for 17
years and currently holds the title of William Williamson Professor of Art. Jackson responded, “I’m deeply honored. What can you
feel but humility when work is recognized so publicly?” Others receiving awards are Frank Daniels Jr. for Public Service, Julia
Jones Daniels for Public Service, Allan Gurganus for Literature, Frank L. Horton for Fine Arts, Jill McCorkle for Literature, Robert
G. Parr for Science, Knut Schmidt-Nielsen for Science, and Gen. Hugh Shelton for Public Service. Doris Betts, Durham interior designer
Carolyn Collins, Asheville attorney John S. Stevens, and

@ See Davidson Artist on page 3

The awards committee was chaired by Dr. Christopher Fordham and included novelist and UNC-Chapel Hill professor

---

Professor Herb Jackson stands amidst a plethora of paint.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036

GO: s1 ON OV WN
