THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Brett SIMPSON
Health Advisor

It’s time. “Game” has been called, and this is my final Health Advisor article. Somehow I enjoy having the last word, but this isn’t it, is it? My time is up, but another series of articles will be out next year, refuting my year-long claims that smoking is healthy and safe sex is boring. So, instead of identifying the hidden realities behind the college population’s behaviors, I'll make it my (secretly designated) job to give a concise summary of all the things I’ve learned/gleaned from college. I'll then wrap it up nicely for the passing eye.

The problem here is that I’m a crummy writer, and my ideas are trite. But, hell, I'll give it a shot. I’ll begin with the caveat that I have taken reality for dreams (and vice versa) and find life (at best) confusing. To make the banal clichéd, every time I have had it all figured out, I’ve gotten a blow smacking me right back down into my mire of confusion. It’s true: I have gained some wisdom from the whole process of readjustment and trying to stand again, but I feel it is little progress for the long road of experience waiting. At least I’m aware and will take caution of “beware.”

Perhaps I can say that (now that I think of it) I’m almost twenty-three and have already seen a (relatively) good deal for my years. Granted, many of us have, but I’m always worried when I see fellow students' social actions. Too many of us live in bubbles. I’d be happy if we took note of the world every once in a while, remembering that few of us have actually lived in it. While most of us will only realize it on the flip-side of graduation, the thought in hindsight may provide a sobering line of continuity from time to time. I think we’d all be better people for it.

I tire of moralizing, too, so enough of it. I don’t know with surety what to write. I have learned a great deal of academic gibberish in my four years, but have never felt the key to true learning. Unless we came here as pre-professionals, I feel we’ve been deposited here to learn more about life, ourselves, and social interaction. Our parents usually hope that after college our fledgling wings will expand and let us fly far up into the clouds of pride and success. Some of us actually make it, and some of us will fall. It’s more important, however, that we try our best to discern and achieve our own goals. Some of us do, but some of us fail at that, too. In the end, though, your scorecard matters only to you. You can believe in a God, thermodynamics, or what you will, but I'll still contend that we (i.e., ourselves) have to answer for our actions.

Although I’ve been stuck down in confusion my share of times, I do know that I’m trying my best to live in a way I can morally defend—for nobody but myself. It’s my bent on things, at least. But if you don’t like my bent, then I'll leave you with time-tested words you should not fail to heed. (This is a Health Advisor column, mind you.) So, here goes:
- Hiding from your problems only makes them worse.
- Take care of your body.
- Be kind to those less fortunate.
- Try to love the people who make a positive difference in your life.

Beyond that, I'll end with the wish that each and every one of you have a healthy and satisfying life. That’s all.

Horoscope
By Mary Perrin ANDERSON
Staff Writer and Fortune Teller Extraordinaire

Taurus (April 20 - May 19). Big Bull Taurus is taking life by the horns. Word is out, and you should expect money and job offers that will skyrocket you to stardom within the week. Feel free to begin building a wardrobe of expensive formal clothing because your name has already been added to the Hollywood MVP list.

Gemini (May 20 - June 20). Cuddly Gemini is nothing but content. Your squeeze seems to get better looking on a daily basis, and you will find a $20 bill in your pocket.bill in your shirt pocket by Friday. A jealous Sagittarius tries to steal your thunder but you'll have none of it, Gemini! Yours is a fire that can’t be extinguished.

Cancer (June 21 - July 21)
Cancer will find relief and calm this week. A hectic phase that had you tied in knots has finally been resolved, and your professors can’t stop talking about it. The future looks incredibly bright and you find yourself in the path of money and power. The stars think that if your...

TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1999

Give Ani DiFranco a chance
By SARAH ROBERSON
Guest Writer

Near the Belk parking lot curb, one of my friends began to open the door and get into my car. Others walking by, knowing our destination and not caring to join us, shouted, “Have fun at the worst concert of the year!” Too bad those uninformed and uncouth men don’t have the courage to actually give Ani DiFranco a chance.

Last Wednesday night at the Grady Cole Center, at least twenty of your fellow Davidson students enjoyed a show that I am prepared to defend. A warning to readers who can’t handle it: This article contains references to a strong, amazingly talented, and wholesome woman.

The general admission concept is always a scary one when dealing with Ani fans; especially those under fifteen (groan). I chose to move up to the second floor of the basketball gym before I killed anyone by defending the position I had secured two hours prior to Ani’s arrival. I decided that I would rather move farther away from the stage (originally we were standing five rows back) in order to maintain my mental health. Good judgement on my part because not only did I run into a friend from high school, but I actually had room to dance.

Have you ever heard a band and thought to yourself, “Oh, this is my favorite song” as each and every song begins? I am talking about rapture here. Not idolization, but bliss. These are not words associated with the worst concert of the year. The best aspect of this particular show was the hip hop and funk edge that Ani’s songs have acquired. Helping to generate a feeling of club remixes, the other three artists on stage reinterpreted the traditional folk nature of their roles. The drummer scratched records, the standing bass player got funky in his string manipulation, and Julie jammed on a synthesized keyboard, vocals, and accordion. In a totally unpredictable twist to “Fire Door,” Ani added a couple of verses from “Rapper’s Delight,” much to the amusement of the insatiable crowd.

Capping off the display of talent, Ani attempted an encore with one of her many emotionally charged songs, “Both Hands.” With this song, her talent did not lie with her guitar skill (she forgot the second chord in a progression of merely four). Rather, her talent was in practicing what she preaches. When she wrote, “It’s nice that you listen... It'd be nice if you joined in” (“Face Up and Sing”), she obviously meant it. Knowing that she would not be able to recall the chord, she may have contemplated moving on to another song. But, a fan in the front row yelled, “I'll play it!” Ani then extended her hand down, and the security guards scurried to make sure that the girl could clamber onto the stage. After a short conversation, Ani announced to her fans that Kim would be assisting in the encore. A sweet and, at times, awkward exchange of voice and acoustic guitar resonated not only in my ears, but in my innermost consciousness.

It is unfortunate that fans feel like they have to defend their taste in music. The next time that you hear someone talking about her or his admiration for Ani DiFranco, try not to emulate Beavis & Butthead by grunting, “Huh, huh, she sucks.” Instead, decide for yourself after you have heard her message. Maybe you’ll end up more like Wayne and Garth, bowing and saying, “We're not worthy, we’re not worthy.”

802 S. Main St. » Davidson » 892-0604