The £

Lr oO x. WB. 1

ORTA

LIBERTAS

“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

Judges? GUN Control “Vandals” at the VAC, > —
Federal Court Judges to visit! Two student perspectives! Alan Parker’s poetry came alive!

NEWS 3 OPINIONS 9 A&L 19

ANNE STANCIL
Staff Writer

On September 27, the E.H. Little Library
celebrates its twenty-fifth anniversary. To commemorate this historic day, the library staff will
offer free ice cream on Richardson Plaza from 1-3
pm, and the college archives will display memorabilia inside the library.

The Little Library was dedicated during Fall
Convocation Weekend in 1974. Donating one
million dollars for the project, E.H. Little, former
President and Chairman of Colgate-Palmolive Corp.,
demonstrated his devotion to Davidson College.
The principal speaker of the weekend was Dr.
Louis B. Wright, Director Emeritus of the Folger
Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C. The
Presbyterian News recorded in 1974 the dedication
of the library as “the highlight of the weekend.”

Little is the fifth library building at the College, and at the time of the dedication was the
premier library among American colleges. The
first book collections were not housed in a single
building, however. Instead, the Eumenean and Philanthropic societies of the college begged and bought
their own collections, competing for the most
impressive volumes.

When Chambers Hall was completed in 1860,
the Phi and Eu collections moved to the new
building. Combined with the books belonging to

Please see Anniversary on next page for continuation

Davidson rocks during
First Night Down

By Drew Devore
Staff Writer

Davidson College has a tradition of banning freshmen from Patterson Court for the first three weeks
of school. Those three weeks ended on Friday with First Night Down. In recognition of this, most of the houses
on the court threw parties to celebrate and welcome the freshmen down.

Friday night was highlighted by parties sponsored by many of the fraternities and
eating-houses. Kappa Alpha’s party featured DJ
IV. Kappa Sigma hosted the Latin-ska band,
Mandorico, while Pi Kappa Alpha, Turner, and
Warner Hall hosted the Frogmoores. Sigma Phi

Please see Fall Fest on page 4 for continuation

Mike Anderson

@ Alex Rogers ’03 helps make the third and final goal of
this past week’s game. Article on page 15.

INDEX

Jessica Bogo

First Class Mail
EDITORIALS .......... 8 U.S. Postage Paid
LETTERS ............. 8 Permit No. 1
OPINIONS ............ 9 Davidson, NC 28036
ARTS & LIVING ..... 11
SPORTS .............. 14

DEADLINES & AD RATES

All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles
received after this deadline will not be edited or placed. These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s)
or dropped off
at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks can be used if file is
saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40
For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supersede the Friday deadline.
