THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Derek POLITZER
Staff Writer

4-2-99: The fate of the three U.S. soldiers captured by Serb forces on the Macedonian border has remained in the hands of the Yugoslav regime, as prosecutors collected evidence against them. U.S. intelligence sources have confirmed that the U.S. soldiers were in fact on the Macedonian side of the border at the time of their arrest. President Clinton reiterated Friday that the U.S. will hold Milosevic personally responsible for them. Also, the U.S. pledged greater humanitarian aid to the Kosovar refugees.

The bodies of seven suspected illegal immigrants were found on the California-Mexico border Friday. According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, they died trying to cross into California during a snowstorm.

The suspected creator of the Melissa virus, which forced many companies all around the world to shut down their electronic mail systems, was arrested Friday.

4-3-99: For the first time, NATO missiles pounded Belgrade, reducing the Serbian Interior Ministry to rubble. A hospital nearby sustained no damage. Meanwhile, the latest poll indicates that American public support for NATO airstrikes and for eventually sending ground troops into Kosovo has swelled.

Iraq accused Western planes of striking a key oil facility Saturday. The U.S. jobless rate declined to a 29-year low in March. Nation of Islam Leader Louis Farrakhan was doing “quite well” Saturday after undergoing treatment for cancer.

4-4-99: In light of the rapidly worsening humanitarian crisis as Kosovar refugees continued to stream out of Kosovo, the U.S. promised a food airlift to the region. German officials have indicated that the current situation, in which hundreds of thousands of refugees have fled Serbian ethnic cleansing, has created the worst humanitarian disaster since World War II. Kosovar Albanians have recounted numerous incidents of mass killings and of entire cities that have been burned to the ground.

Preparations were underway Sunday to secure the transport of two Libyan suspects in the Lockerbie airline bombing. According to the settlement South African President Nelson Mandela negotiated with Libyan President Mohmar Kaddafi, Libya will surrender the two suspects to the Netherlands where they will be tried under Scottish law.

Christians and Muslims clashed Sunday in Nazareth over holy sites claimed by both religions. Rescuers ended their search for survivors of a northwestern Louisiana tornado after it ripped across the area Saturday, killing six people and injuring over 100.

4-5-99: As the U.S. announced plans to dispatch 24 Apache helicopters and 2,000 support troops to Albania to increase NATO’s attack capability, NATO missiles pounded Yugoslavia again Monday. Targets included Belgrade’s main airport and military facilities in and around Pristina. President Clinton vowed that Milosevic would not “get an easy peace” in Kosovo. The refugee crisis worsened Monday with tens of thousands of Kosovar refugees stranded at the Macedonian border.

The U.N. suspended sanctions against Libya Monday after President Mohmar Kaddafi surrendered two suspects in the 1988 Lockerbie airline bombing to Scottish authorities.

The Justice Department reported that a U.S. immigration judge has ordered that a Chicago man believed to be responsible for the deaths of 3,700 Jews in Lithuania in 1941 be deported.

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled Monday that a passenger’s personal belongings inside a car may be searched if the police officer suspects that they contain contraband.

RUN FOR RESEARCH 5K Run To Cure Cystic Fibrosis

Run For Research: A 5K Run to Cure Cystic Fibrosis

The Davidson College Premedical Society and the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation will be sponsoring the second annual Cystic Fibrosis Run For Research, a 5K run through the town of Davidson. This nonprofit event will be held on Saturday, April 24 at 11 am, starting from the Davidson Town Greene in front of the public library. All runners must donate $10.to the CF Foundation in order to participate. T-shirts and refreshments will be available at the race, and the top five finishers will receive prizes. Runners may register at the race, in Preyer 105 with Ms. Jean Newman, and there will be a table in Chambers the week before the race for registration and the sale of T-shirts ($13).

4-6-99: NATO allies agreed to temporarily airlift 100,000 Kosovar refugees to temporary shelter in Europe and the U.S., easing the burden on neighboring Macedonia and Albania. The U.S. will accept 20,000 refugees; Germany, 40,000; Turkey, 20,000; and Norway, 6,000. President Clinton called on Congress Tuesday to expand federal hate crimes laws in light of the Alabama and Wyoming killings of two gay men and the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.

4-7-99: NATO rejected Milosevic’s offer of a unilateral cease-fire Wednesday, as the NATO offensive continued. Milosevic, continuing to reject the presence of NATO troops to safeguard the peace in Yugoslavia, offered a partial Serbian withdrawal from Kosovo. Macedonia reportedly forcibly bussed thousands of Kosovar Albanians across its territory to Albania, separating families and friends. NATO criticized the manner in which these relocations were carried out, and Macedonia lashed out at NATO for its criticism. According to the latest forecast projections, this year’s Atlantic-Caribbean hurricane season could be as busy as last year’s. A noted forecaster predicted 14 tropical storms and nine hurricanes.

4-8-99: The Pentagon said Thursday that NATO’s bombardment of Yugoslavia has resulted in the “serious disruption” of Belgrade’s ability to supply its troops in Kosovo. The Cypriot envoy to Belgrade tried to secure the release of the three U.S. soldiers held hostage there. Yugoslavia sent mixed signals to Washington but said that it would not release the soldiers while NATO continued its assault. While public support seemed to turn in favor of sending ground troops into Kosovo Thursday, President Clinton argued that he did not see a need for ground troops. A powerful explosion rocked the TECO Energy electric plant near Tampa, Florida Thursday, killing two and injuring 50. A lone gunman who threatened to blow up a Mississippi bank if he was not given bags of marijuana, a pizza, and interviews with Mississippi officials surrendered to police Thursday.

4-9-99: Russian President Boris Yeltsin threatened a world war if NATO sent ground troops into Kosovo and occupied Yugoslavia as a “Western protectorate.” Yeltsin, however, assured President Clinton that Russia has not retargeted its missiles toward NATO countries despite reports to the contrary. Russia continued to seek a diplomatic resolution to the conflict in Kosovo, urging the G-7 to consider Milosevic’s plan for a cease-fire. Russia recently deployed a reconnaissance warship in the Adriatic to gather information on the conflict in Yugoslavia. Six more warships remained on alert and ready to travel to the region upon command. The U.S. urged Yeltsin Friday to abide by his promise that Russia would stay out of the Kosovo conflict. In an apparent coup, members of the presidential guard assassinated Niger President Ibrahim Bare Mainassara. The Prime Minister subsequently dissolved the National Assembly and dispatched tanks and armored personnel throughout the capital. U.S. intelligence indicates that a family feud between members of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein’s family could result in the downfall of the Hussein regime. The U.S. and China sparred over allegations of human rights abuse and spying in talks between President Clinton and Chinese Premier Zhu Rongji which concluded Friday. However, they found common ground on protecting the environment and aviation and made progress on China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Dozens of tornadoes that ripped across the central U.S. killed five people and injured many more.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1999
4:00 PM
LOVE AUDITORIUM
CHAMBERS BUILDING