THE DAVIDSONIAN © _ SPORTS

Swimmers cap off record season

By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

With Saturday’s impressive 45-point win over Duke, the men’s swimming and diving team finished this season at 6-7, one of
their best records ever. According to head coach Rich DeSelm, the ‘Cats sealed up the victory by the middle of
the meet when they were ahead by a solid 34 points. “By the 200 fly we put the meet out
of reach,” DeSelm said. “They [Duke] weren’t deep enough to break into our lead.” Overall, DeSelm was extremely pleased with
the team’s victory. “It was a great win,” he said. “Our men swam very strong. They had a look that
they would win and they did.”

DeSelm was also thrilled with several individual performances, especially sophomore Kurt Hirsekorn, who had a lifetime best time in both
the 200-yard individual medley (1:55.73) and the 200-yard breaststroke (2:06.59). Hirsekorn took first place in both events. In addition, junior
Mark Medendorp won the one-meter diving event and took second in the 200-yard butterfly, an event in which he swam
his lifetime best time of 1:55.83. Also enjoying solid performances for the ‘Cats were freshman Graham Gravley, who swam his
best time of the year in taking second place in the 1000-yard freestyle, senior Michael McCabe who claimed second place
in the 100-yard free, and junior Sam Kuykendall who won the 200-yard butterfly. Davidson also dominated entire races as the
trio of McCabe, sophomore Matt West, and senior co-captain Jay Rosenquest took first, third, and fourth places respectively in the
200-yard freestyle. The ‘Cats also claimed second, third, and fourth places in the 500-yard freestyle, while the 400-yard medley relay
team swam their best time of the year.

Although the women’s team fell to Duke by 59 points, they finished the regular season at 5-8, breaking their previous
record for most wins in a season. Freshman Shelley Conroy had lifetime best times in both the 1000-yard freestyle and
the 200-yard breaststroke and is looking forward to performing well at her first Southern States championships. “I’m more excited than
nervous,” Conroy said. “The season is going really well.” Also, freshman Starr Daniell won the 200-yard butterfly and junior Mary
Shell Brosche had an outstanding meet, winning the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard backstroke. Brosche swam season-best times in
both events. Finally, in dropping time off her 200-yard individual medley and 200-yard breaststroke, junior Karen Fritchie had her best
performances of the season.

Looking ahead, the ‘Cats will have over two weeks to prepare for the Southern States Championships to be held at
Davidson beginning on February 18. “We’re excited to have 18 days off,” DeSelm said. “We need to get healthy, well-rested,
and sharpen up. We’ve had a challenging but fruitful season. We’ve trained all year for the Championships and we’re on
target for Southern States.” “The goal has been to perform well at Southern States,” said freshman Graham Gravley. “We’ve been
working extremely hard and these are stepping stones on the way. The enthusiasm has been increasing rapidly.”

We’ve got spirit, yes we do, we’ve got spirit...

By Setu Davis
Sports Columnist

When I sat down in the stands at the Davidson/College of Charleston basketball game Saturday night, I had not slept
since Thursday night. When I don’t sleep enough, I get very dark circles under my eyes and my head hurts
a lot. I hadn’t slept because three friends and I decided to go visit Duke on Friday night. So Jessica,
Lindsey, Ramya, and I made the two and a half hour drive to Durham. While there, I got the chance
to visit “Krzyzewskiville.” For those of you who have never heard of such a place, it is a tent community
set out in a field on the campus of Duke University. Die-hard Duke basketball fans camp out during the season
as a show of support for their highly successful basketball team. As I got the twenty-five cent tour of the
campus, I felt myself drawn to make comparisons between Davidson and Duke.

I spent Saturday in a daze, trying to keep one foot in front of the other because I was spent.
But I had my ticket for the basketball game, and even if I collapsed while watching, I was going. I
had heard about the matchup between UNC-Chapel Hill and College of Charleston. Chapel Hill lost. I knew how big a
win would be for the Wildcats. What I never expected was the feeling that I was left with—how impressive the
spirit on Duke’s campus was. I felt like this quality...

“The spirit in Belk Arena was contagious. You could see it...Infect the players in the first half, as Ali Ton
and Landry Kosmalski pumped their fists in the air and played to the crowd. What I hadn't expected was how
big the crowd at the game was. Sitting in section 104, row H, I stared out during the first half
and smiled. Here was the pride and spirit that I saw in those tents at Duke. The spirit in Belk
Arena was contagious. You could see it infect the players in the first half, as Ali Ton and Landry Kosmalski
pumped their fists in the air and played to the crowd.

The game was one of unthinkables. The Wildcats ran out to a fifteen-point lead at halftime. By the end of
the game, they had lost it. My exhaustion, which had dissipated during the course of the game, returned even heavier
than before. I could see the question in the faces of Wildcat fans: How did this happen? It is a
valid question to ask. But there are other questions to ask as well. For instance: How amazing was it to
see Belk Arena full of Davidson fans? How often do we see rows of students sitting behind the basket screaming
at the opposing team’s free throw shooters? Most important of all: Will you ever forget the pride and excitement you
felt at that record-setting game? I hope not. I, for my part, will not.

Women tracksters off to impressive start
By Smyth Bitter
Sports Writer

Keeping the success and strong efforts of their first indoor meet rolling, the women’s track team traveled to Johnson City,
TN, this past weekend for the second meet of their season. Along with Davidson, 34 other teams gathered at ETSU,
which made for some tough and exciting competition. Racing began on Friday afternoon with Janet Aardema, Smyth Bitter, and Clare
Frey running 800 meters. Breaking the Davidson school record of ten years, Bitter ran a 2:19.16 and Frey (2:25.80) bettered
her time by ten seconds from the last meet. Aardema (2:43.44) had a strong race, her first in almost three
years due to nagging injuries. Senior co-captain Jamilah Sawyer, who raced a solid 200 meters in a time of 28.24,
also ran on Friday. Sawyer, along with Bitter, Frey, and Tab Combs, wrapped up the competition for the day with
a strong 4x400 meter relay, where they finished third in their heat.

Saturday morning came much sooner than most of the women had hoped. At 9:30 a.m., Davidson was represented in the
5000m by a senior threesome of Beth Brewster, Jenny Klotz, and Katie Lannon, all of whom had solid races. Running
1600 meters soon after the seniors was another trio, this time comprised of freshmen Lucy Billingsley (5:24.60), Rhiannon Ollis (5:53.10),
and Hannah Grimes (5:53.50). Billingsley was second in her heat. Finally, in the 3000 meters, freshman Caroline Little ran a
solid race, clocking a time of 11:04.70. Also showing great effort in the lengthy race was freshman Julia Kudravetz (12:05.90)
and senior Ellen Runnels (12:42.80). Sawyer summed up the weekend’s impressive outcome, “Our goal this weekend was to run with
honest effort. Everyone gave 110% and good performances were the result. Look for more school records to fall at Clemson
this weekend.” Joining twenty other teams, Davidson will compete in the Clemson Invitational on February 5th and 6th.

Davidson College Union

Bela Fleck and the Flecktones
Dr. Hanan Ashrawi "Peace in the Middle East: The Palestinian Perspective"
The Wearn Lecture
Thursday, Feb. 4, 8pm Love Auditorium

Workshop: Women in the Workplace
5:30pm Guest House

Movie: Spanish Prisoner
9:30pm Home Room, free!

Thursday, Feb. 4
Wearn Lecture: Dr. Hanan Ashrawi
8pm Love Auditorium

Kayak Rolling
8:15pm Baker Pool

RGA

Friday, Feb. 5

Saturday, Feb. 6

Monday, Feb. 8

Tuesday, Feb. 9

Coffee House
8:30am-11:15am 900 Room

Coffee House Salsa Band
7pm 900 Room

Mon-Thurs

Bela Fleck
Sunday, Feb. 7, 8pm Love Auditorium

Movie: Spanish Prisoner
9:30pm Home Room, free!

Jumpin Java
8pm-12:30pm Outpost

Outpost

D.O. Wilderness Leadership Trip: Feb. 5-7

D.O. Ski Winterplace Feb. 5-6

Climbing Wall
7-9pm Johnston Gym

Jumpin Java
8pm-12:30pm

8:30am-11:15am 900 Room

Jumpin Java
8pm-12:30pm Outpost

21 Year Old Night
10pm-12:15pm 900 Room
