SPORTS
to 4th-seeded Georgia Southern in SoCon Tournament

Press RELEASE
Southern Conference

THE DAVIDSONIAN . TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1999

#5 Georgia Southern Advances To Semis Of 1999 Southern Conference Men's Tennis Tournament

Spartanburg, SC — Darren Clark won his singles and doubles matches, and Georgia Southern needed to only complete three singles matches to defeat Davidson in the quarterfinals of the 1999 Southern Conference Men's Tennis Tournament at the John E. Reeves Tennis Center at Wofford College.

Clark won his No. 5 singles match over Davidson's Billy Boykin 6-3, 6-3. Earlier, he and teammate Alejandro Franqui clinched the doubles point for the Eagles by beating the Wildcats' Alex Okulski and Tyler Epp, 8-3, in the No. 2 doubles match.

Georgia Southern will face top-seeded East Tennessee State in the 9:30 a.m. semifinal match Saturday. Georgia Southern 4, Davidson 0.

Singles

Kendell Swartz (GSU) def. Brett Ialacci (DAV); 6-0, 6-3

Whit Hansen (DAV) vs. Christian Singer (GSU); 3-6, 6-3, 2-0 suspended

Ryan O'Keefe (GSU) vs. Alex Okulski (DAV); 6-3, 6-6 suspended

Scott Briggs (DAV) vs. Wojciech Nowak (GSU); 7-5, 3-3 suspended

Doubles

Darren Clark (GSU) def. Billy Boykin (DAV); 6-3, 6-3

Jesper Andersson (GSU) def. Chad Winebarger (DAV); 6-4, 6-2

Swartz/O'Keefe (GSU) def. Briggs/Judson Sutherland (DAV); 8-2

Clark/Alejandro Franqui (GSU) def. Okulski/Tyler Epp (DAV); 8-3

Hansen/Ialacci (DAV) def. Singer/Andersson (GSU); 9-7

Basketball Coach Steve Shurina leaves for Vanderbilt.

Press RELEASE
Vanderbilt/Davidson SID

NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Steve Shurina, an assistant at Davidson the past seven seasons, has been named to the Vanderbilt staff, head coach Kevin Stallings announced Monday.

Shurina, age 33, was promoted to associate head coach at Davidson three years ago and was a finalist for head coaching positions at Furman and Coastal Carolina in the last two years.

“I wasn’t going to leave Davidson unless it was for a program that I could really believe in and really sell,” Shurina said. “Vanderbilt is a school with a similar commitment to academics, and I’m really looking forward to the competition involved in recruiting SEC-caliber players.”

The Wildcats posted a 127-71 record during Shurina’s seven years, including an NCAA Tournament bid in 1998 and trips to the NIT in 1994 and 1996.

“Steve has established an excellent reputation as a recruiter,” Stallings said. “His efforts at Davidson made a large impact on their success, and his familiarity with the southeast is an added bonus.”

Shurina has served as a motivational mentor for the Davidson basketball program for the last seven years. He owns countless volumes of inspirational and motivational books and audio tapes and urges players to use them if they think such tools would fit with their particular personality and needs.

“I think motivation comes from within,” Shurina said. “It’s called self-help. As a coach, I just try to show the players the paths to go down so they can help themselves.”

With that kind of motivational approach, Shurina has helped Davidson achieve consistent success on a level the Wildcats haven’t known since the glory days of Lefty Driesell in the 1960s.

In Shurina’s six years at Davidson, the Wildcats have gone 113-60 with three trips to the postseason.

As a player at St. John’s in the mid-80s, Shurina went to the Final Four with the Chris Mullin-led Redmen in 1985 and captained Lou Carnesecca’s 1988 squad. He was a dean’s list student majoring in criminal justice and was named academic All-Big East his junior and senior years.

Following his four years at St. John’s, Shurina played professionally in the Continental Basketball Association, United States Basketball League, and World Basketball League in 1989 and 1990. Shurina played under George Karl with the Albany Patroons in ’89 and said Karl remains a close friend and advisor. He cited Karl, along with Lou Carnesecca and Davidson head coach Bob McKillop as his coaching mentors.

Shurina began his coaching career at Brooklyn College, where he received a master’s degree in physical education and sports management in 1992.

Less than a decade removed from his playing days, Shurina still brings relative youth to the game.

“My playing days are not too distant,” he explained. “I can relate with the players in practice and with what they’re going through.”

“Steve Shurina has distinguished himself as one of the brightest young coaches in the college ranks,” says Davidson Head Coach Bob McKillop. “His reputation for excellence is already known on the national scene.”

@ Coach Steve Shurina

MAKING BUSINESS EASIER: WORLDWIDE.

WHEN FINALS ARE OVER,

Boxes and Packing Tape Supplied
Fast Ground or Air Shipping via UPS

BRING

* Computers * Clothes * Books * Stereo * Trunks

Do your own boxing or we will gladly package any or all of your items

Mail Boxes Etc.

Exit 28 Cornelius, Next to Starbucks Coffee

892-9760