“The South’s Foremost

College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

Relive last year all over again,
Yearbooks coming soon!

NEWS 7

LIBER EAS

What the mailman brought,
Cryptic messages and baked delights.

EDITORIALS 8

ORTA

Choreography,
Dance Ensemble stands out!

A&L 11

9-0
Volleyball maintains its flawless journey!

SPORTS 14

By Aaron Houck
Staff Writer

On Thursday, October 7, 1999, the Davidson
community celebrated the groundbreaking for the
new Knobloch Campus Center, a building that has
been talked about for the last 15 years. The new
center will take on most of the functions of the
currently overburdened Union. The Knobloch
Campus Center will be built using the existing
structure of Johnston Gym—will house the book-
store, the Union Café, WALT, the 900 Room, a
fitness room, student organization offices, a copy
center, and a fully functional post office.

Perhaps most exciting is a new 600-seat
Performing Arts Center that will be put to good
use by the Theatre and Music Departments.

In his opening remarks of the groundbreaking
celebration, President Bobby Vagt described the
cool fall afternoon as “a special day in the life of
Davidson College.” He continued by expressing his
pleasure that in building this state-of-the-art facility,
Davidson would be able to “restore a historic building,”
and displayed excitement at the “limitless opportunities
for the future” provided by the new campus center.
The new student center was the dream of the
longtime Union director C. Shaw Smith, Vagt noted, as
he proceeded to recount some of his own memories
of the man. Vagt’s speech was followed by words from
Dean of Faculty, Dr. Clark Ross, Dean of Students, Dr.
Thomas Shandley, Will Thompson ’00, and Foster
Haselden ’00. Following these opening statements,
the female a cappella group, The Delilahs, and the male a
cappella group, The Generals, entertained the crowd.
President Vagt then introduced Carl Knobloch,
whose generous gift to Davidson College is largely
making possible this construction. Mr. Knobloch
did not graduate from Davidson, but has two
daughters who are alumni. Vagt characterized
him as a man who, without fail, does what he
sees as right. At this point, Mr. Knobloch took
the time to share a few words with the crowd on
hand. Showing his warm regard for Davidson, he
related some facts from the college’s history dealing
with past construction projects and their costs.
Following Mr. Knobloch’s words, he and his
wife, Emily, were presented with a detonator plunger that, when
depressed, showered confetti over the audience
and unveiled a large picture of the completed
project. T-shirts provided by the architects and
the builders were then thrown to the crowd.

Those present at the ceremony were then
treated to a box supper along with great opportunities
to socialize with classmates, staff, and alumni.
The first stage of the project complete, Davidson
College has begun on what Dr. Vagt described as an
“important building.” The scheduled completion
date is set for the year 2001, and from now until then, students,
faculty, and staff can watch and wait as a
proud piece of Davidson tradition is transformed
into a monument to its future direction.

Additional photos on page 3.

New campus center gives hope

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

Davidson's own WALT 1610 is undergoing
big changes this year in hopes of improving its
image and the quality of its programming. The
members of the executive board have been taking
great strides in many areas. Among these are a
new office in the Union, better equipment, and
more “listener friendly” programming.

The new broadcasting room in the Union
offers many advantages over the old one, according
to DJ Chas Willimon ‘02. Not only is the room
itself more comfortable and more organized, but it
is also closer to the center of campus and thus
more easily accessible.

WALT is also making improvements in its
equipment. The old antenna has finally been
repaired and is capable of producing a much stronger
signal, enabling clearer reception in the Davidson
area. Moreover, the station will soon receive
new remote broadcasting equipment. This
addition will allow WALT to cover campus
events such as the choral concerts and home
sporting events.

Perhaps most dramatic are the changes made in programming. In years past, WALT DJs had more or less
free reign over what they played. Although that
is great for the DJs, that doesn’t present a very
professional image, explained Cam Houser ‘00. In

Please see Walt on next page for continuation.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
