THE DAVIDSONIAN ASKIDNEGO@HOTMAIL.COM

Watch as IdnEgo, your unconscious lustful thoughts on one hand and conscious, morally aware thoughts on the other, navigate all of your troubled and worrisome relationships. Tune in each week to hear Freud’s psychoanalytic creations Id and Ego face off against each other as they offer their sage advice. Want to hear what IdnEgo have to say about your relationship dilemma? Send your questions to: AskIdnEgo@hotmail.com. (All inquiries will be kept confidential.) Please note: All “advice” offered in this column is purely for entertainment purposes and should not be considered professional clinical advice.

Dear IdnEgo,

I had a great summer. I was a camp counselor - no homework, no exams, no worries, and a great summer fling with another counselor. It really was just a summer fling - we hooked up a couple of times, nothing serious, and I haven’t spoken to him since we left. Here’s my problem. I have a boyfriend here at school, and we had been going out since the beginning of the last semester. I had already decided not to mention this other guy to him since it wasn’t serious. Besides, we did not specifically say that we were going to be “faithful” — we didn’t really talk about it. Anyway, last night I came back to my room and found my boyfriend waiting for me (my roommate let him in). When I got there, he was flipping through a stack of pictures that I had just gotten developed from the summer. There were a couple of pictures with me and this other guy — nothing incriminating, but definitely suggestive. He didn’t say anything, but I think he’s suspicious. He kept telling me that he missed me and was so glad to be back together. Now I’m beginning to feel guilty and wondering whether I should come clean. Any suggestions?

Thanks,
Looking for advice.

Dear Looking for advice:

Glad to hear that you had a good summer — especially that “hooking-up” part — way to fulfill those basic needs! Regarding the pictures and anything else — I’ve got 2 words for you — DENY — and I'm not talking about Delaware and New York. I’m talking about — fervently denying any and all implications that you were anything but entirely faithful. The guy in the picture — you can’t even remember his name — you think he was one of the other girl’s boyfriends visiting for the weekend. Telling your boyfriend anything else would be a waste of time - you'll make him feel bad and probably mess up your relationship. This was NOT a big deal — just a simple fling. Just think, your boyfriend probably had his own fling(s). Summer’s over and with it anything that happened, it’s a good memory, move on, and bag the guilt.

Yours truly,
Id

Dear Looking for advice:

A summer fling that doesn’t mean anything? Well, perhaps the summer guy doesn’t mean anything to you. But flings always mean something — you just have to figure out what they mean. There are a couple of questions that you might want to think about before you decide whether to tell your boyfriend. First, why did you have a “meaningless” fling? Second, why are you feeling guilty about it now? And, when you feel like you’ve done something wrong — what exactly do you feel you did wrong? And finally, your wanting to do the right thing. This is a good instinct, and I commend you for it. In deciding what to do, you’ve got to ask yourself how serious this relationship is to you. Do you really like your boyfriend, and want to have a meaningful relationship? Or are you still unsure and need some more time together to think about it? Or have you decided that it is not a long-term relationship, but it is better than nothing now? If your answer comes anywhere close to the first two questions, it is better to tell your boyfriend and establish a good basis of trust. It might be hard going, but you must emphasize your wanting to do the right thing.Finally, why are you feeling like you need to square things up with your boyfriend? On the other hand, if this guy is simply chopped meat until you meet the next best thing, I'd just keep quiet and break it off soon. It sounds like it was a way of testing out your feelings for him and that you are telling him because you want to build a better relationship. Regarding the fling, it sounds like you and your boyfriend are not yet fully committed to each other, which might account for wanting to try out someone else to test the relationship with your boyfriend. Or perhaps you're simply not ready for a commitment, and this was a way of telling yourself that. Or perhaps you simply like meeting new people and hooking up. 

Why is the guilt appearing now? Did you think that you wouldn’t feel guilty when you were hooking up? Are you feeling guilty because he has been faithful and you haven’t? Guilt only appears in a relationship. I would also tell him that this was a one-time event and that you’re pretty clear about your feelings and that it won’t happen again. On the other hand, if this guy is simply chopped meat until you meet the next best thing, I'd just keep quiet and break it off soon. You do absolutely no good by causing him additional angst about a break-up and the humiliation of you fooling around with someone else. Good luck.

Your friend, Ego

When I got back to my dorm room, he was...

Movie Review: Mickey Blue Eyes
By Louis Ulmer, Staff Writer

Putting aside my already insignificant amount of respect for Hugh Grant, I watched Mickey Blue Eyes in hopes that the movie was made to be a movie, rather than another “comeback” for the Brit. My wish was granted, as it made for a worth-seeing flick. As Michael Felgate, Grant runs auctions at a New York art-house. Felgate’s patience has been run to the limit, as the delivery truck never arrives on time and always shows up without all the ordered pieces. After a hair-pulling day at the office, Michael proposes to his girlfriend of three months, Gina (Jeanne Tripplehorn). The proposal leads to several emotional scenes, which in turn result in Michael discovering that Gina’s father is a mobster. After Michael convinces Gina that this doesn’t bother him, Gina finally accepts the ring...with one catch of course — that Michael promises not to get involved with Gina’s father, Frank (James Caan) and his mob buddies, including Burt Young as Vito “The Butcher” Graziosi.

When the delivery truck unexpectedly shows up early with all the art ordered, Michael learns what being part of the Family is all about. A little pressure from the mob helps any situation, and now Michael must help them back — by laundering money at his auctions. This is done by selling Johnny’s (Vito’s crazy son) artwork to those who owe the mob money. His ability to stay away from Frank’s business goes downhill from here, and he finds himself in a circle of lies with Gina. Eventually, Michael earns his mob-name, Mickey Blue Eyes, followed by a painful scene in which Hugh Grant attempts to speak mob-talk. The real laughs come during Grant’s scenes of absolute confusion and Caan’s humorous “it will be okay” attitude. Together they team up to be an almost clueless pair of mobsters who share Gina as their only true love in the world.

Lexington Charlotte, NC

Donald L. Copeland, MD
Medical School: 1963, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Residency: Georgia Hospital, Macon, GA

Jeffrey A. Berger, MD
Medical School: 1995, University of Kentucky College of Medicine
Residency: Carolinas Medical Center

Lee Beth Lindquist, MD
Medical School: 1987, University of Mississippi School of Medicine, Jackson
Residency: University of Mississippi Family Medicine Residency, Jackson

WE'VE CHANGED! STUDENT HEALTH CENTER MEET OUR NEW MEDICAL STAFF! Now provided by Lakeside Family Medicine

Longer Sick Call (1:30 — 5:00 M-F) means more appointments available!
All-physician staffing! (No PAs)
Female physician now on staff!

MEDICAL SERVICES

David M. Cook, MD
Medical School: 1990, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill
Residency: Carolinas Medical Center, Charlotte, NC

Thomas E. Jenike, MD
Medical School: 1995, Ohio State University School of Medicine, Columbus
Residency: Carolinas Medical Center, Charlotte, NC

T. Michael Sherrill, MD
Medical School: 1990, East Carolina University of Medicine, Greenville, NC
Residency: Pitt County Memorial Hospital, Greenville, NC