Che Davidsonian

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
Established 1914

questioning the mystery of his death!

Vince Foster ’67,

NEWS 2

Dave and Cort take on W.W.J.D.!

OPINIONS 5

LIBERTAS

ORTA

Football continues to struggle, IDnEGO deliver advice! Emory & Henry wins again!

A&L 10 SPORTS 11

I’m attracted to my roommate,

Shawn Tyrance goes for the pass during this past week’s game against Emory & Henry. See Sports page 11.

Christopher Malamisura In Memoriam

By MELISSA DECASTRIQUE

Davidson’s WDAV hires top-seated NPR chair

By COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

F. Kim Hodgson, general manager of WAMU radio in Washington, D.C., and chairman of the board of National Public Radio
(NPR), has been appointed station manager of WDAV, Classical 89.9 radio, in Davidson.

WAMU is Washington’s major public radio outlet for news, talk, and traditional American music programming. Hodgson will succeed John Clark,
who retired as WDAV’s station manager on June 30 following 17 years in that position. Hodgson will begin work in
Davidson on November 1 with intentions of expanding the station’s commitment to promote all fine arts in the region.

Jamie May, vice president for college relations at Davidson, said the college will benefit greatly from Hodgson’s decision to accept
the position. “Listeners in this area appreciate the high quality of programming on WDAV, and Kim Hodgson’s knowledge of public
radio on a national level will help us improve that service,” he said.

Hodgson was elected to the NPR board in 1994, and its members selected him as their chair in November 1996.
That position has immersed him in strategic thinking about the industry, and helped him develop relationships with public broadcasting leaders
nationwide. Hodgson has one year of board membership remaining, and says that WDAV will add a new perspective to his
board service. “It is very important that stations like WDAV be at the table in organizations where the future of
public radio is being plotted,” he said. “Believe me, stations in major markets like New York, San Francisco, and Washington
don’t have all the answers!”

Hodgson described WDAV as “a jewel among public radio stations.” He praised its professional staff, integrity of programming, and its
commitment to promote and support all forms of fine arts in the area.

Revolutionary technological innovations are making that commitment even more important, Hodgson said. “The challenge to classical radio is to avoid
replacement by satellite broadcasting. The key question for stations like WDAV is how to remain relevant to the community in
which they operate so that people won’t opt to get their music from a national satellite service. WDAV has to
offer its listeners something that compels them to listen every day, while remaining true to its fine

Please see WDAV on page 3 for continuation.

Op/Ed Editor

On Saturday, September 26, Davidson junior Chris Malamisura died in a kayaking accident in West Virginia. A native West Virginian,
Malamisura was a hall counselor on Fourth Watts, a brother of Sigma Phi Epsilon, and an active participant in Davidson
Outdoors.

After receiving a voice mail from President Vagt about the tragedy, friends gathered in the 900 Room to remember Malamisura’s
life and pray for his family. The room was filled with students and staff who shared a wealth of stories
that expressed sentiments held by all in the room—a respect for Malamisura’s energy and sense of humor, as well as
a deep appreciation for his gift of being a friend to everyone he met, no matter how well he knew
them.

Funeral arrangements as well as plans for an on-campus memorial service are incomplete at this time, President Vagt said, but
will be released to the campus as soon as possible.

Christopher Malamisura ’01

Senior Art Show: The Mystical Body

By Seth Davis Arts and Living Editor

When confronting the meanings of Jenny’s paintings, there are a few questions which the paintings themselves seem to suggest. Jenny’s
nudes seem to be more than simply physical representations of the human body. The nudes, quite simply, seem to exhibit
emotions, and this is one of the reasons for the success of Jenny’s paintings. Her nudes are not stark, but
so fully human that ~

The next time that you are walking through the Union, I urge you to stop by Jenny Lyon’s exhibit. Jenny
is a Davidson senior, and her work now graces the walls outside the Union café. This collection of her images
of the body is entitled The Mystical Body.

An organic sensuality characterizes the nudes in Jenny’s collection. Her paintings are not simply paintings for the eye. All the
senses are engaged by the contours and lines of her nudes. The lines of her nudes are soft definitions of
the human form.

Please see Mystical Body on page 4 for continuation

ARTS & LIVING

EDITORIALS
OPINIONS
INDEX

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036

DEADLINES & AD RATES

All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles
received after this deadline will not be edited or placed.* These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s)
or dropped off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks can be used
if file is saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40 For more information on
ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supersede the Friday deadline.

“On the Surface an intelligible lie: underneath the unintelligible truth” Milan Kundera - Oil on canvas ’99
