THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

Premedical society and AED start new programs

By JT Tolentino
Staff Writer

The Premedical Society and Alpha Epsilon Delta have an active semester planned for premed students here at Davidson. In addition to the normal meetings, they have introduced two new programs aimed at expanding the scope of the organization.

The new Mentor Program is actually an improvement of the old Mentor program. With the new design, the program is aimed at new freshman premed students and any sophomore or junior still considering premed but remaining somewhat unsure. The premed students sign up for groups of six to discuss the premed program at Davidson, and topics such as MCATs and class scheduling, with two mentors. The mentors are premed upperclassmen who have agreed to lead the sessions.

Continued from front page:
arts mission.”

He said the station’s excellent reputation in the public radio world and its mission to serve the arts community attracted him to the position. In addition, he and his wife, Judy, look forward to living in the close-knit community of Davidson and relocating closer to Hodgson’s parents in Atlanta.

Hodgson has worked in non-commercial radio since 1966, beginning as producer of educational programs for the University of Chicago. He was program director for the nation’s first Native American owned radio station, KTDB in Ramah, N.M., and managed stations for Minnesota Public Radio, the University of Washington, and WETA in Washington before joining WAMU. During his tenure at WAMU, the station budget grew from $1 million to $6 million, the number of supporting members grew from 10,000 to 35,000, the full-time professional staff more than doubled to 43 people, and the station built a new 10,000-square-foot broadcast building. WAMU now attracts more than 450,000 listeners a week, and produces more than 15 hours of programming for distribution to National Public Radio member stations around the country.

WDAV began programming as a public service of the Trustees of Davidson College in 1978. Under John Clark’s direction since 1981, it grew from a 20,000-watt station whose signal barely reached northern Charlotte to a 100,000-watt broadcast service that reaches a 22-county area of the Carolinas.

In addition to airing classical music 24-hours a day, Classical 89.9 promotes cultural arts events throughout the region on the air and on its website, in the monthly programming magazine, through co-sponsorship of events, and with the creation of new events like the Music Listening Contest for young music lovers. The ultimate expression of this philosophy occurred during the station’s 20th anniversary celebration last year. The station commissioned a composition, “Voice of the Wood,” from North Carolina composer Russell Peck. The Charlotte Symphony performed the world premiere, which was broadcast live locally by WDAV and syndicated nationally.

Hodgson holds a master of arts degree in speech-radio/TV/film from the University of Wisconsin and a bachelor’s degree in drama from Antioch College. When he is not working, he enjoys reading, long walks, and listening to a wide variety of music. He believes that, ideally, every day should begin with a bit of Bach. He and Judy have four grown children.

The Mentor Program is currently open to any premed student and to any upperclassman interested in becoming a mentor. The Roundtable Discussion is the other new program developed for this year. Meeting every other Tuesday at Summit Coffee, the Roundtable Discussion serves as a place for premed students to discuss current medical ethical issues or medical advances that are sometimes not discussed in class. The discussion is led by a premed student who chooses a topic and articles for the forum. Anyone who has an idea of a topic is welcome to lead a discussion group. The next meeting is set for 8:00 pm this Tuesday at Summit Coffee, and is open to anyone who is interested. The articles for this week’s Roundtable Discussion can be found in Mrs. Newman’s office in the Preyer Building.

The Premedical Society and AED also have a number of meetings lined up with guest speakers from Davidson graduates currently in medical fields and Admission Deans from various medical schools. Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, Director of the Premedical Program, called this year a “North Carolina Year” for Deans. The majority of deans speaking this year will come from North Carolina medical schools, such as Duke University and East Carolina University. However, deans from other medical schools outside of North Carolina are scheduled to speak. These meetings with the deans of medical schools are important because they expose premed students to the various programs each medical school offers. Dean Lewis Nelson from Wake Forest University will be the next dean to visit Davidson. He is scheduled to speak October 6th at 6:30 PM in the Carolina Inn.

A number of other speakers have been invited to give talks to the Premedical Society on various topics. Last Thursday, Davidson Alumnus Dr. Chuck Harris, a cardiologist from Wake Forest University, spoke at the “Cookout with the Cardiologist” about his experiences going from Davidson to medical school, and his current research in cardiology.

Any additional information about the Premedical Society can be found on the web at their homepage (http://www.med.davidson.edu/PreMed/DCPMS) or by contacting Kelly Carter ‘00 at kecarter@davidson.edu, or Chase Coffey ‘00 at chcoffey@davidson.edu. For information on the Mentor Program, contact Melanie Majure ‘00 at memajure@davidson.edu.

©Wachovia Corporation, 1999