THE DAVIDSONIAN News. TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1999

### Changes on Patterson Court

The motivation behind this evaluation comes from a report done in 1995 which suggested the Court should implement basic standards mirroring those of the National Interfraternity Conference and “should be reviewed annually to assess the level to which those standards of operation and conduct are met.” O’Brien explained that many of the issues addressed in the report were in response to many comments and suggestions made by the faculty. “This was our chance, as students, to evaluate the Court fairly,” O’Brien stated.

Jesse Smallwood, an Independent student, asserted that the self-study was “a necessary step for Patterson Court Council to make.” The study, which includes a new set of standards for the Court, as well as recommendations for any houses that do not meet the standards, covers a wide range of topics. These topics include: academics, finances, programming, facilities, membership, service, and faculty/staff interaction.

To meet the academic standards of the PCC, a student must have a minimal GPA of a 2.0. However, to further evaluate GPAs within houses, the study uses a sliding scale system to evaluate each house, based on the average GPA on campus. Thus, each house is awarded a certain number of points for their average GPA in relation to the average GPA of the campus. In addition, the study group suggests that each house acknowledge the most improved GPA each semester.

Over the years, there have been some problems with the financial situations of the houses in terms of overspending and borrowing money from the school. Ideally, PCC would like to eliminate all debt from all the houses, but such a process will take some time. Therefore, they recommend that the treasurer of each house outline a budget and meet with the Controller’s Office twice a semester. In addition, any house already in debt must arrange a plan to pay off the debt.

Another area the self-study group re-evaluated was the cost-effectiveness of Physical Plant materials, which has proven an expensive cost for many of the houses. The houses must abide by the honor code and code of responsibility at all times, including the alcohol policy and risk management. Each house must have a written Risk Management policy, updated every fall semester, as well as require a minimum of 50% of the members to be TIPS trained. The house must also provide one educational or development program per semester for its members.

The self-study group requires that all houses receive at least a “good” rating on 75% of inspections each semester. To receive such a rating, each house must have a health and cleanliness checklist posted visibly in the kitchen and dining area, as well as a written system to ensure the safety of the house. The cooks in each house must be certified in food preparation and handling, as well as passing a kitchen inspection. The self-study group recommends that the Court improve the fire safety of all the houses, as well as providing feedback to the houses after weekly inspections.

The houses on the Court continue to support a self-selection opportunity to all students, while following the rushing...guidelines of North Carolina and the Anti-Hazing Compact set forth by the College. The new member pledging can last no longer than eight weeks after self-selection. In addition, a minimum of 80% attendance is required by the new pledge class at the new member educational series. However, one change to which the student body will need to adapt is the new name of self-selection: it is now house-selection. The houses must continue appointing a service chairperson to ensure that members of a house participate in service activities, as well as requiring each house to attend the Patterson Court joint service project once a semester. After completing service hours, each house must submit a written report about the service, including the number of members involved, number of hours served, and amount of money donated. Each house must have one faculty/staff advisor and must sponsor at least one faculty event per semester. In addition, each house must submit information to The Davidsonian at least twice a semester. Houses must also create a PCC website to access information about each house, including policies, service summaries, and scholarship requirements. This evaluation process will start with a halfway evaluation in September 1999 and end with a full evaluation in January 2000. The evaluation process provides both punishments and rewards for each house based on their evaluation. There will be a PCC Awards Banquet in February to recognize both house and individual excellence on the Court. For those who do not meet the standards, there are outlined punishments, all based on achieving 70% in each category. Punishments for the houses range from submitting a plan to improve the area of concern, to one semester social probation, and these houses must also submit a plan of action. Jim Barber, the advisor for the Court, believes the students involved in the self-study did an excellent job. Barber stated, “The study includes everything, from membership guidelines to relationships with faculty and staff. This study will make all the organizations involved stronger and more well-rounded.” Dr. Marciano, an advisor for the study and 1988 PiKA graduate of Davidson, agreed with much of Barber’s statement. “This is a move in the right direction for the Court. With an outline of requirements for each house, they can know what to expect and how to change any problems.” One point with which Dr. Marciano did disagree was the minimum GPA required to join a house. He believes it should be raised to a 2.3 to encourage the academic environment of the houses. “If the GPA requirement makes it harder to join a house, members will be more inclined to help pledges reach the GPA minimum.” With the recommendations of the self-study group, there will be some changes on Patterson Court.

---

Introducing the American Express Credit Card for Students. Live for today. Build for tomorrow. The American Express Credit Card for Students is a resource you can depend on. With benefits like big airfare savings, free credit information, and no annual fee, it'll help you get the most from your student years — and help you build a solid financial foundation for the future.