“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

Lots o’ luminaries
AIDS Awareness pervades campus
NEWS 2

The End
Editors-in-Chief on their way out
OPINIONS 5

Brechtfest 99
Black Box features unique production
Wildcat Volleyball returns from NCAAs
A&L 8

Cornhuskers 1, Wildcats 0
SPORTS 9

Coed eating house fast
By MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

After almost a decade in hibernation, the co-ed eating house seems on the brink of a comeback. The Council on
Campus and Religious Life, a powerful advisory board to President Vagt, overwhelmingly endorsed a coed eating house proposal at Wednesday’s
meeting. The Council—comprised of 7 faculty members, 8 students, and 2 deans—voted 16-1-1 in favor of the endorsement. The proposal
now goes to President Vagt for consideration.

Juniors Dane Erickson and Ben Carter, members of Sigma Phi Epsilon, have spearheaded the effort to revive the co-ed eating
house. Both expressed delight at the endorsement. “It was really gratifying to receive such overwhelming support for an effort that
we really believe in,” Erickson reveled. “It was awesome,” Carter agreed. “There was almost no question at the meeting that
it was a good idea and that it was going to pass. It was rewarding after the response we got
from Patterson Court Council.”

Patterson Court reaction
PCC recently refused to endorse the proposal by a vote of 9-7 (with 2 abstentions). Speaking on behalf of the
Council, PCC President Megan O’Brien stated, “Some of the big concerns were that the current buildings need to be brought
up to standard—people wished that the college would flood money into that rather than a brand new house.”

Adam Boyd, president of Sigma Phi Epsilon, accounted, “We didn’t feel that the Court was ready right now.” Boyd cited
the recent addition of Turner House as reason to stall the installation of a new house, “They haven’t really had
a chance to establish themselves.” Ed Bonapfel, a Kappa Sigma, offered a similar argument, “I think it would be detrimental
to the Court scene because it would take potential female members away from eating houses. There are already two strong
eating houses and two weak ones. I think those eating houses need to be revamped before we add another house
on the court.”

Nonetheless, demand for the co-ed eating house is overwhelming. According to a survey administered under the direction of the SGA’s
Polling & Response Committee, 32% of the student body indicated they were “likely” or “very likely” to join a co-ed
eating house. A mere 16% of respondents expected a co-ed eating house to negatively affect the Patterson Court scene.

Daniel Hodge, an active member of Phi Delta Theta, insists, “I don’t see it as a threat to the fraternity
system. I don’t think it’s something that would necessarily pique my interest, but it’s not something that I would be
opposed to for somebody else.” Hodge feels that the coed eating house would broaden the options available to students, “The
strength of the fraternity system at Davidson is that they pull in people that normally would not be interested. I
think (a coed house) is a viable option for the 50% of guys who don’t join fraternities.”

See Coed Eating Houses, page 2

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS
Hunt wins Rhodes Scholarship
Press Release

Hunt is the 23rd Davidson Rhodes Scholar. Brenda Wilkinson Hunt. the weight. It moved the class to tears.”

Christian M. Hunt, a Davidson College senior from Kannapolis, N.C., has won one of undergraduate education’s highest honors.a Rhodes Scholarship
for study at Oxford University in England. Hunt and three other winners from mid-Eastern states were selected in Washington, D.C.,
on Saturday afternoon, December 4, and are among 32 winners nationwide. A double major in English and German with strong
interests in music and literature, he is the son of William H. Hunt and the late [mother's name missing]. He
began taking violin lessons at age 3, and now plays several instruments in college musical ensembles. His English honors thesis
covers musical structures and forms in James Joyce’s novel, Ulysses. He is president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, editor of
the Hobart Park literary magazine, was instrumental director for the student production of Hair, and works for radio station WDAYV
as announcer and producer. Hunt said he was grateful to Davidson for helping him achieve the best possible education, and
added, “I am particularly indebted to many individual professors and student friends who have helped me in this endeavor and
many other things.” His academic adviser in German, Scott Denham, called Hunt “an incredible stylist with tremendous intellectual and artistic
power.” Denham recalled a moment during his “Holocaust” course study of the Anne Frank story last year. Hunt and other
students were to reflect on a slide of a Dutch storefront bearing a sign, “No Jews Allowed.” Denham recalled, “Christian
wrote in ten minutes a perfectly formed lyric poem, almost a sonnet in structure, in the voice of one of
Anne’s cats, a cat who knew too much and couldn’t bear it.”

Christian Hunt ’00

See Rhodes Scholar, page 4

This 1990 scene might once again be a reality in the near future.

“Alternative gifts” available

Can’t think of what to buy your aunt who has everything? Or maybe you wish your money would go to
a more worthy cause than the local mall this Christmas. If you want to give a different gift this holiday
season, the Alternative Gift Fair has just what you are looking for. The Alternative Gift Fair, organized by Sanctuary, a
service-centered Christian fellowship, provided Davidson College with another option for Christmas gifts. On Sunday from 2-4 p.m., $5,608 was raised
to benefit 29 projects worldwide. Tables were manned by 14 school organizations to give descriptions for the different gifts available.
Alternative Gifts International (AGI) is a non-profit mission that operates globally to provide gifts for “those who aren’t on anyone’s
gift list.” The idea of an Alternative Gift Fair was started in 1980 by Harriet Prichard, the director of Children’s
Ministries at Pasadena Presbyterian Church in California. Prichard began an alternative gift market to “teach children about giving.” The concept
has grown into a worldwide mission raising almost eight million dollars since its incorporation in 1986. The gift fair operates
under the principle that the gift serves as a “double gift” for both the recipient and the beneficiary of the
service. The money goes towards various causes in over 20 countries. They provide services such as Women’s Rights and Health
training in Mexico, fresh water in Kenya, and a piece of the rainforest. A small amount goes a long way
in changing the recipient’s life. If you missed Sunday’s gift fair, they will be in Chambers on Monday and Tuesday
and also at DCPC’s Wonderful Wednesday program. For more information on specific gifts, go to AGI's website at www.altgifts.org.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

EDITORIALS

CONTINUING

ARTS & LIVING

SPORTS

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036
