Press RELEASE Davidson S.I.D.

The Davidson Wildcats opened with a 17-3 lead at the half and never looked back in a 31-12 victory over
the visiting Hampden-Sydney Tigers Saturday afternoon at Davidson’s Richardson Stadium. The victory assures Davidson of consecutive winning seasons for the
first time in 41 years. It's been so long since the 'Cats had back-to-back seasons above .500, current radio color
announcer and two-time former Davidson coach Dave Fagg was actually playing for the Wildcats.

THE DAVIDSONIAN: That was in 1957. Actually, Davidson had a winning season in each of Fagg's years on the team.
“This is just a culmination of our hard work over the past two years,” Head Coach Tim Landis said after
the game. “Everybody in the program has worked tirelessly to make this team as good as it can be. To
finally have back-to-back winning seasons proves that we are starting a winning tradition.”

The Wildcats got off to a quick start as junior Corey Crawford returned the opening kickoff 58 yards to the
Tiger 33. Three plays later, freshman quarterback Paul Nichols found Crawford open for a 24-yard TD strike, just 1:22 into
the game. A seven-yard TD run by junior Jon DeBord on the first play of the second quarter pushed the
score to 14-0.

Red & Black Meet a success
By SHELLEY Conroy
Staff Writer

They've been training since the first day of school, waking up at six in the morning for practices that are
almost as long. And they do it all wearing barely any clothes. They’re the Wildcats’ Swimming and Diving teams, and
on Saturday, Oct. 23, they held their intra-squad Red & Black Meet to kick off their season, which concludes in
late February when Davidson hosts the Southern States Championships, a qualifying round for the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference Swimming and
Diving Championships.

In the Red & Black Meet, the ’Cats divide forces for the only time during the season and race each
other in preparation for the Wildcats’ upcoming meets. This year’s Red & Black competition set a positive tone for the
season as new meet records were set in many of the events and a few individual swimmers swam their personal
bests.

On the men’s side, sophomore freestylers Mike Warner and Graham Gravley set new meet records in the 100-yard and 1000-yard
freestyles, respectively. Senior co-captain Scott Harper set a new meet record in the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 1:58.28.
Junior Kurt Hisekorn started out his season with three new meet records in the 100-yard breaststroke, 200-yard breaststroke, and the
200-yard individual medley.

The women’s team, led by its senior class, broke records as well. Senior Mary Shell Brosche set a new meet
record in the 100-yard backstroke with a time of 1:02.09 and also set a new 200-yard individual medley record with
a time of 2:12.89. Co-captains Britta Toleman and Beth Wilson dominated the breaststroke, setting meet records in the 100-yard and
200-yard races, respectively.

The following Tuesday, the Lady Wildcats hosted North Carolina A&T and Wingate in a tri-meet at Cannon Pool. Davidson was
victorious, beating NC A&T 53-29 and Wingate 61-24. Brosche and fellow senior Rachel Horak each swam personal best times while
winning the 100 fly and 100 freestyle, respectively. Brosche also won the 100-yard breaststroke, while Toleman won the 50 freestyle,
sophomore Starr Daniell won the 200 IM, and senior Suzi Bozzone won the 100 backstroke. The Lady ’Cats also triumphed
in the 200 medley and 200 free relays.

The Wildcat divers benefited from a much larger team than last year thanks to the addition of three freshman women
and two freshman men. The team expects this added depth to help the ’Cats tremendously, adding to the experience of
senior Elizabeth Fraser and sophomore Liz Nugent.

The ’Cats traveled to Atlanta last Saturday to take on Georgia Southern University and Emory, and the men’s team even
added a meet against Georgia Tech to their weekend schedule. This Saturday at 1 p.m. the ’Cats host William &
Mary at Cannon Pool.

Name the Wildcat Mascot!
The Davidson Athletic Department and President Vagt request the assistance of the student body. Ensure that the NEW Davidson Wildcat
has a better name than these unfortunate Southern Conference mascots:
VMI Keydets — Moe the Kangaroo
Appalachian State Mountaineers — Yosef
Georgia Southern Eagles — Gus

Win a $100 + prize package! Submit your ideas to Mamccann@davidson.edu. Deadline November 11, Midnight.

There comes a time in the eighth life of every cat when he must plan for celebrating his ninth life
— taking it easy, chasing slow mice. We at Davidson regret that Mr. Cat has reached that juncture, but are
eternally grateful for all that he has done to “fan” the flames of competition at sporting events. We approach with
some trepidation the selection of a new Cheer-cat, but we are confident that the college community will bend every effort
to assist in this task.
-President Vagtpossession, freshman Mike Chase blocked a punt on fourth-and-27, giving the Wildcats the ball at the Tiger six-yard line.
That field position led to a 27-yard field goal by freshman Daniel Hanks and a 17-0 Davidson lead. In the
third quarter, the Tigers' quarterback, senior Walt Bondurant, connected with sophomore tight end Matt Niemaseck on a 29-yard touchdown pass.
But the extra point attempt was blocked by junior Andre Carelock to sustain the eight-point margin. Nichols was replaced by
junior Shaun Tyrance in the second half due to a shoulder injury. Tyrance found his groove late in the third
quarter, orchestrating a quick three-play, 41-yard drive which culminated with him scoring on an eight-yard run and a 24-9 lead.
A Hampden-Sydney field goal in the fourth quarter brought the Tigers within 12, but senior Donnie Johnson sealed the victory
by returning an interception 53 yards for the final score of the afternoon with just 4:42 on the clock. “Everybody
had a hand in winning this game today,” stated an elated Landis. “Special teams had some big plays, the offense
had some long, sustained drives, and the defense did a great job in keeping Hampden-Sydney down. It was simply a
true team effort.”

Statistically, no one stood out in this game offensively. Davidson did not have a rusher with more than 50 yards
and, as a team, threw for just 94 yards. Meanwhile, Hampden-Sydney had just 228 yards of offense, more than half
of which came in the final quarter. On defense, Wildcat junior Bo Henderson and sophomore Sam Fraundorf each had 13
tackles, two for losses, and one sack. The 'Cats also picked off three passes. For those fans in the Lake
Norman area, the game was televised by Prestige Vision Cable (Channel 4) and will be aired on the evening of
Monday, Nov. 1 at 8:00 p.m. Next Saturday, Davidson will try to improve upon its current five-game winning streak at
Centre College. The Wildcats have not lost the previous four contests at Centre. Davidson has won six consecutive games in
one season just twice -- in 1917 and last year, 1998.

Game notes: Davidson as a team has blocked 11 kicks this year... senior Roland Williams moved into eighth place on
the Wildcats' career receiving yards list with a seven-yard reception (1,089)... Corey Crawford is 11th on that list with 1,072
yards.

Wildcat Volleyball notches 14th consecutive win
By Brad STEVINSON
Staff Writer

With two dominating victories over the weekend, Davidson’s volleyball squad extended their winning streak to 14 games, the longest streak
in the program’s history. By defeating the College of Charleston and The Citadel on Friday and Saturday, respectively, the Wildcats
improved to 23-2 overall and, more importantly, to 15-0 in the Southern Conference. In both matches, the Wildcats showcased their
impressive depth with strong performances from the starters as well as from the bench. “A lot of girls got to
play,” said junior outside hitter Mara Mordini. “We used a couple of different lineups, and the team adjusted really well.”

Davidson needed only three games to defeat the College of Charleston Friday, as they swept the Cougars 15-6, 15-7, and
15-10. Sophomore Erica Schwartz directed the Davidson offense, pounding 40 monstrous assists, while Mordini and junior outside hitter Brooke Bentley
punished the Cougars with 10 kills each. Meanwhile, junior Katherine Lorenz was the cornerstone of the Wildcats defense, recording 10
digs. On Saturday, the squad relied on its depth as it handed The Citadel a decisive 15-8, 15-1, 15-9 loss.
Schwartz recorded yet another strong performance, delivering 26 assists, and sophomore Jacqueline Ortega led the team with six kills. In
fact, seven Wildcats registered four or more kills as Davidson earned its fourteenth consecutive victory and stayed perfect in the
Southern Conference. “Overall, it was a great weekend,” commented Mordini. “We had a lot of solid performances.”

Solid performances have characterized the Wildcats’ play this season. Last week, senior Gina Lawrence was named the Southern Conference Player
of the Week. Averaging four kills and 3.5 digs per game last week, Lawrence led the team in kills in
the Oct. 22 match against UT-Chattanooga with 13. She joins Mordini, who received the honor in the first week of
the season, as the second Wildcat to earn the award this season. In the coming weeks, the Wildcats will fight
to maintain their perfect Southern Conference standing with home matches against UNC Greensboro on Tuesday, Nov. 2 at 7 p.m.
and Georgia Southern on Friday, Nov. 5 at 7 p.m. Then they will travel to Furman before wrapping up their
conference schedule by hosting Appalachian State and East Tennessee State next week.
