=. Disappointing End for Wildcats
By Britt Sports Writer

It wasn’t supposed to turn out this way for the Wildcats. But it did. In the quarterfinals of the Southern Conference tournament, Davidson lost 82-77 to Western Carolina, the worst team in the Southern Conference. The Catamounts (7-20) entered the game with only three previous wins against Division I teams, with the most recent win the night before, also coming in upset fashion against the higher-seeded Wofford Terriers.

Davidson had faced coach Phil Hopkins' squad twice during the regular season, and each occasion ended with a romp. On January 16, Davidson won 96-59, and the Wildcats again turned back the Catamounts, 73-55, in early February. These losses did not mean anything to the hot-shooting Western players on that Friday afternoon. Dondrell Whitmore and Michael Plavich paced the Catamounts with smooth strokes from behind the arc. They combined for 44 points, 30 of those coming from three-point baskets. Whitmore, a forward, hit four of his five three-point attempts. Plavich continually bailed out his teammates, throwing up desperation shots which always seemed to find the net.

“(Davidson’s) zone actually allowed us to run some clock, and Michael Plavich hit a couple of big ones for us,” said Coach Hopkins. “He had struggled the last couple of games, but he hit some big shots today.”

Coach Bob McKillop’s squad again struggled to complete the entire forty minutes of the game. The final game of the season seemed reminiscent of earlier losses against Colgate and College of Charleston, where the Wildcats were unable to put the opponent away. Leading 63-54 with 9:43 left on the clock, Davidson appeared to finally have the game in hand, but they did not score for the next four minutes, allowing the confident Catamounts back into the game.

“This game is just another example of us not being able to put the finishing touches on games this year,” said Coach McKillop. As a team, Western shot 54 percent from the field to hold off Davidson. But Western’s horrible free throw shooting down the stretch gave Davidson an opportunity. The Catamounts led 75-69 with 52 seconds to play but only hit 5 of their last ten free throw attempts. Their miscues and Davor Halbauer’s three-point wizardry allowed the Wildcats two opportunities to tie the game in the final seconds.

Down by two, 79-77, Ali Ton drove the length of the court for a lay-up on the right side of the hoop. The left-handed Ton missed, forcing Halbauer to foul Casey Rogers. Rogers made one free throw, giving the trailing Wildcats one more shot to force overtime. Ton took a three-point shot which fell short, ending Davidson’s season.

Junior Landry Kosmalski struggled to give a reason for the surprising end to the season. “Maybe we were a little surprised and maybe a little tentative.” Though he totaled but four points and a lone rebound in the first half, Kosmalski went on to lead Davidson with 20 points and nine rebounds.

Press Release
Jason E. Prince, a Davidson student leader and varsity swimmer from Boise, Idaho, is a USA Today “All-USA Academic All-American.” Pictures and profiles of Prince and the other 19 winners appeared in the Thursday, February 25, edition of USA Today.

Prince said, “It’s a tremendous honor to be recognized for those things I’ve enjoyed doing at Davidson — service, studies, and sports. I’m excited about the recognition it’ll bring to Davidson, and looking forward to meeting the other winners.”

The Award
The winners were to gather in Washington, D.C., on Thursday and Friday for an awards banquet and a “Presidential Roundtable” discussion with university presidents and past USA Today winners about the state of higher education. The winners represent (among other institutions) Carnegie Mellon University, Wake Forest, Yale, Columbia, Harvard, Duke, and the University of California system, and were chosen from 984 undergraduates nominated by their schools. Each winner also receives a $2,500 cash award.

Davidson political science professor Susan Roberts, who has taught him in several classes and advised him in his pursuit of graduate fellowships, was to join Prince in Washington on Friday for the awards ceremony.

A “Prince” of a Student
Prince is an outstanding student who holds a McGaw Scholarship, John I. Smith Scholarship, and National Honor Society Scholarship.Tylenol Youth Leadership Scholarship and Discover Card Gold Tribute Award Scholarship, and was selected as a regional finalist for the Rhodes Scholarship this year. He has been a resident advisor in a Davidson residence hall and served as a hall counselor for freshman students. The Scholar-Athlete Prince has been a varsity swimmer for Davidson all four years of his college career, spending up to 20 hours a week in training and team leadership roles. He has been elected by teammates as co-captain of the team for the past two years and swam a career-best time in the 400 individual medley less than two weeks ago. He has also served as vice president of the athletes’ executive committee of United States Swimming, an organization which represents more than 197,000 competitive swimmers from the novice to Olympic levels. He has also served as editor of that organization’s journal, “United States Swimming Athletes’ Quarterly.”

His swim coach, Rich deSelm, described Prince as a charismatic, outstanding communicator who is very devoted to what he chooses to do. “That combination of characteristics makes him extremely pleasant to work with,” said deSelm. “He’s very well respected.” Prince is majoring in English, with plans to pursue a career in law “looking toward civic leadership roles.” In other words, he said, he could end up in anything from politics to the non-profit sector. “Wherever I’m most useful is where I want to be,” he said.

Jamie Brown Women’s Lacrosse The ‘Cats ship off to Ohio State to square off against the Big Ten university on March 13.

A Solid Character Professor Susan Roberts, who has served as a mentor to Prince, described him as humble and unassuming. She also cited the creative way he has blended his academic and extracurricular interests. She explained, “In my class on ‘Parties and Interest Groups’ he chose to study and write about an interest group active with exceptional children, which is a group he serves outside the classroom. That’s the happiest combination of what we'd like to do at Davidson, to inspire students to take something in the academic arena and use it for community service.” Roberts was referring to Prince’s role in founding the Davidson Special Needs Mentoring Program, which provides mentally and physically handicapped students at North Mecklenburg High and Mooresville High with the opportunity to socially interact with Davidson students. He wrote about that experience in an application essay for the USA Today honor, describing his efforts to involve 70 other students as program volunteers, and talking about his touching, personal relationship with the individual student he serves.

Prince is fluent in Spanish and has done volunteer work in Charlotte’s Hispanic community. He has also written a policy paper for a Davidson political science class about the availability of legal aid to illegal aliens, particularly in Idaho. He showed that, though many of these aliens have the right to declare legal residency, a particular clause in the law prevents them from doing so.

A Bright Future Though he’s quite honored to be selected by USA Today, Prince isn’t resting on his laurels. He still hopes to obtain a further fellowship so he can attend Cambridge or Oxford to pursue a master’s degree in literature. But win or lose, Prince is eager to continue his studies. He concluded, “Maybe the scholarships would help me clear the hurdles ahead with a little more ease, but not winning them won’t stop me from clearing the hurdles. Scholarships are perks, but not necessities.”

“I'd do it again. If that letter brought a loss to Davidson College today, I’d still do it. That’s what this business is about, helping people.” Kerry & Bob McKillop

The senior twins from Pennsylvania became only the second and third Wildcats ever selected to the SCT’s All-Tournament first team.

Defeat ends season early. Sedric Webber makes ‘Cougars will face Tulsa in the first round of the Charlotte Coliseum. A win earns them the right to meet Duke in the second round, in the event that the Blue Devils can outlast Florida A & M in their first-round matchup.