spent in Chinese imprisonment

By J.T. Tolentino

Press Release

Palden Gyatso, a Tibetan monk who endured 33 years of imprisonment and abuse at the hands of the Chinese government,
will speak at Davidson on Monday, November 8th at 8:00 p.m. The presentation will take place in the 900 Room,
located on the second floor of the College Union. At the presentation, Gyatso will recount the atrocities he suffered at
the hands of Chinese officials.

Born and raised in a small Tibetan village, Gyatso was 18 when he became an ordained Buddhist monk at one
of Tibet’s most esteemed monasteries, Drepung. He was jailed in 1959, at the height of the Chinese Cultural Revolution, as
the government sought to crush Tibetan culture and enforce “thought reform” among the Tibetan people. For the next three decades,
Gyatso was tortured, interrogated, and persecuted for his beliefs. Throughout his imprisonment, he resisted the Chinese authorities and served as
an inspiration to his fellow inmates.

Palden was released in August 1992 partly because of international pressure due to groups like Amnesty International. By the time
he was released from Drapchi Prison in Lhasa, Gyatso had served more time behind bars than any other surviving Tibetan
who has reached the West. Since he won his freedom, Gyatso has devoted his life to exposing the atrocities committed
by the Chinese government against the Tibetan people and the plight of political prisoners in Tibet. He has testified before
the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva and the U.S. Congress about the abuses he suffered.

In March 1996, to commemorate Tibet’s National Uprising Day, Gyatso embarked on a 300-mile march from the Chinese Embassy in
Washington, D.C. to the United Nations in New York City. In 1998, Gyatso received the John Humphrey Human Rights Award.
His nationwide U.S. speaking tour is being organized by Global Exchange, a grassroots, non-profit human rights organization based in San
Francisco. Students for a Free Tibet is sponsoring the event.

Website Email @ Two Summer Sessions @ French Immersion Program @ Desktop Publishing and Web Design Programs

The American University of Paris
6 rue du Colonel Combes
75007 Paris, France
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 07 20
Fax (33/1) 47 05 34 32
New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414
Cultural Excursions
http://www.aup.edu
summer@aup.edu

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999

Tibetan monk to speak about years

Greenway debate brings college's aims into question

Story continued from front page

Speaking of Ms. Latter, told how upon seeing him now “she gives me a big ol’ hug around the neck.”
Others contend, however, that the college should not be engaged in relocating people of modest income levels. Dr. David Kaylor,
Professor of Religion, is a member of the board of the Davidson Housing Coalition and was on the board of
the Davidson chapter of Habitat for Humanity for its first years, serving as its president as well. He explained that
the people being moved out are “essentially people without power, and feel pushed in ways hard for people with power
to understand. If the houses all around you are being torn down, you feel some pressure to get out while
you can.” Kaylor believes that the college should be sensitive when dealing with the people to be relocated, and should
help them to deal with the issues of moving such as property taxes.

“My problem is that I want them to build something, not just let the land lie there when people need
homes,” said Evelyn Carr, who lives on Griffith Street. Approximately two years ago, the town came up with a “Village-Center
Master Plan” for downtown Davidson that called for low-income housing on the college’s property on Griffith Street, but the college
was not interested at the time.

“Two questions I had of the town plan,” said PresidentVagt, “were 1) why was all of the affordable housing on
the West side of the train tracks, and 2) why was it all on college property?” President Vagt said that
the college would like to see affordable housing developed throughout the town, not “segregated” to the West side. In response,
Ms. Carr said, “It is already segregated—we can’t afford to live on the East side. The college should pay its
employees enough for people to be able to afford to live over there.”

“Right now there are no concrete plans for the land on Griffith Street except for it to be a greenway,”
said Irvin Brawley. “We are not going to create a maintenance nightmare by planting flowers.” There are many different ideas,
however, about what should be done with the property. Some advocate allowing businesses to move into the accessible, convenient location.
Dr. Kaylor says that the Davidson Housing Coalition would also be interested in the properties: “The lots are so deep
you have space to have affordable housing units as well as a greenway space. Affordable does not mean it has
to be a slum.”

Davidson College would “consider any reasonable plan that had affordable housing all over the community,” according to President Vagt. “We’re
open to suggestion,” said Irvin Brawley, “but there has not been a good suggestion that meets the needs of everyone.”
Many people suggest that much of the problem stems from a lack of communication between the college and the community.
“Davidson College should be an integral part of the community—not just the students,” said Mr. Connor. “If the president would
come and walk through the community and say ‘Hello,’ we would not feel segregated,” suggested Ms. Carr. “I like to
talk to people; if you see me in the post office, say ‘Hi’ and let’s chat.”

Davidson College does not feel removed from the community nor does it want to be. “For thirty years,” Vagt explained,
“this college has been a positive force behind affordable housing. It is an important goal that this community continue to
have affordable housing, but that is only half the quest—the other half is making certain that this affordable housing is
not segregated to one specific area.” In doing so, however, people like Guydell Connor wish that the college would allow
affordable housing to be replaced along Griffith Street. Mr. Connor protested, “In years to come, people will forget there ever
was a Griffith Street community.”

---

Prepaid Wireless

Wireless When You Want it

ALLTEL

You buy a $20 card. You get $20 worth of wireless calls. (It’s not like you need to take Critical
Perspectives in Economic Theory to figure that one out.)

$10 FREE AIRTIME WITH NEW ACTIVATION:

Our Prepaid Wireless service is a great way to get wireless when you need it at a price you can
afford. Simply purchase our Prepaid Wireless Cards. You can use your own phone, or buy our prepaid package and get
a phone. When you need more time, just purchase additional minutes. It’s truly wireless when you want it.

ALLTEL

The power to simplify

Charlotte: Highland Park Commerce Court, 734 Tyvola Road
One Independence Center, 101 N. Tryon Street, Suite 100
Pineville: 9105 Pineville-Matthews Road
Concord: 349 Copperfield Blvd., Suite O
Mooresville: 3936 Highway 150 West
The Arboretum, 8206-1400 Providence Road
7128 E. Independence Blvd.

$30 free offer good with new account activation. Offer good until December 31, 1999. Customer may provide own phone. Roaming
and long-distance fees may apply. Taxes apply on a per-call basis and will be deducted from $10 free airtime credit.
See store for details.
