THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Bonner Scholars begin a new year of service

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Davidson College’s Statement of Purpose declares the College’s commitment to “assist students in developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service.” In keeping with this philosophy, the College offers selected students the opportunity to replace work-study with paid service projects. The Bonner Scholars program gives eighty service-oriented students the chance to contribute to their community while earning money for their Davidson education.

Davidson is one of twenty-two colleges and universities, most of them on the east coast, that supports a Bonner Scholars program. Others include Guilford College, Wofford College, and the University of Richmond. The program was created by a Southern couple who grew up in a poor, coal mining community and recognized both the value of education as well as its high financial price tag. Their belief that education is crucial to success in life led them to create a scholarship program which allowed students to earn money while contributing to their community.

Ruth Pittard, Assistant Dean of Community Service, describes it as a program which “creates opportunities for students to discover who they are through serving others.” Although the program provides students with a stipend in return for their service, Pittard notes that the program “can offer something more than just money; the money is incidental.” Because of the stipend, Bonner Scholars do not have to sacrifice community service in order to have a part-time job. Pittard says that this freedom allows “students to make decisions based on more than just money.” She stresses how well the program fits in with Davidson’s philosophy and its dedication to service.

Becoming a Bonner Scholar is a competitive process. Space in the program is limited, the college cannot accept all that apply; the scholarships are awarded to about half of the students who apply for them. Twenty first-year students are accepted into the program each year and they remain in it for their four years at Davidson.

The program relies on student leadership and decision-making. A steering committee, comprised of three Scholars elected from each class, directs policy issues and community fund allotment. The community fund consists of eight thousand dollars which are made available to Davidson students for service projects. With the exception of first-year students, the Bonner Scholars also choose their own service projects. Students design either individual or group projects in a variety of areas, including environmental protection, advocacy, and caring for the elderly and the homeless. All freshmen spend the first semester tutoring at the Ada Jenkins center; the common experience is designed to bring the first-year Bonner Scholars together as a group.

In addition to completing a ten-hour-per-week service minimum, the students attend weekly meetings with the other Scholars in their class. Recently, all eighty Bonner Scholars attended a daylong retreat at Davidson United Methodist Church. They planned activities for this year, discussed service opportunities, and participated in team-building exercises. The retreat helped to cement relationships among the Scholars.

Bonner Scholars have chosen to take part in the program because they recognize the good that service provides both to themselves and to those that they serve.

Stephanie Connolly ’03 commented on her reasons for joining the program. “I’ve always loved service and it’s a huge part of my life. The program helps center me and remind me of how important it is to help others,” she said.