THE DAVIDSONIAN

= LETTERS TO THE EDITORS =

More on Denham/Parvin

To the Editors of the Davidsonian:

A short letter in response to the current debate.

Dear Dr. Denham,

While I do not agree with many of the opinions you have concerning the priorities of this school, I think
your ideas are thought-provoking and well-expressed. You address one particularly important problem: the exorbitant amount of money the College spends
on sports. I do not know who Jeremiah Parvin is, but his response to your Libertas article was powerful, cohesive,
and RESPECTFUL. Even if you disagree with him, his article alone reflects his intelligence and motivation, and is deserving of
your respect. To end your letter to him in a public forum with what amounts to no more than a
threat (“If you can’t stand the heat...”) was immature.

An important guideline for the policies of this school is what students want. Obviously, your idea of erasing Davidson's social
and athletic structure would not receive even a small percentage of students’ support. Certainly, however, revisions of both could be
desired. If your problems with Davidson are so severe, perhaps you should look for a different school; at Wheaton College
in Illinois, it is illegal for students to dance. What I want to say is, if you can’t adapt...

Sincerely,
Jonathan Adler '01

= OPINIONS =

“It’s frickin’ freezing, Mr. Bigglesworth!”

I have noticed a disturbing trend around Davidson in the past week. It all began when I arrived back here
from Thanksgiving break, walked off the plane, and felt goosebumps form along my poorly clothed legs and arms. “What was
this sensation?” I asked myself. It was rather foreign to me. After all, I never had goosebumps in Houston. When
I lived in San Diego, it never got cold. Was this cold?

Over the next few days, my tender skin really began to feel the decreasing temperature. I was forced to close
the windows that had been permanently open since the first day of school. The comforter that I had balled up
and thrown into a corner of the room suddenly found its way onto my bed, tucked in, no less. I
started wearing socks to bed and I was forced to dig the moccasins out of my closet. “Ah, still good.”

As for the beautiful autumn leaves, they were swept away, and in their place, all that was left were bare
trees and browning grass. The wind picked up, too. The “wind chill” which I had heard so much about when
watching Bears games on WGN suddenly made sense. My standard khakis and t-shirt became insufficient and I was forced to
become inventive in my attire. The clothes gods spoke to me one night in a dream, their message: layers. Another
novel concept I'll agree, yet one that I quickly took to heart. Still, I was cold. Whatever was I to
do?

Then, it dawned on me...the “A/C unit” that had been turned off since the second week of school, could it
also produce heat??? As revolutionary as this concept was, I decided to try it. Unfortunately, it did not produce the
heat I desired. That is when I decided to take fate into my own hands and venture into the unknown...into
the abyss...into the “unit.” Screwdriver in hand, I clambered up on my chair and stared into the icy beast. I
discovered, with the help of a noble comrade, that there is a little lever inside the machine. It is labeled
“cold” and “warm.” We saw the light and moved that lever from “cold” to “warm.” The device quickly began spewing
out that sweet warm Perri-air.

That protected me in my own room, but what about the rest of the world? How was I to traverse
the dozens of feet from the front of Watts to Chambers in this blizzard? That is when I remembered the
Mountaineer®. The Cadillac of jackets, the North Face Mountaineer® was my savior. Complete with six pockets, four zippers, two drawstrings,
snow skirt, armpit breathing space, and hood. All for the low, low price of one functioning kidney. But, it was
worth it. I was now able to leave the enclave of Watts and venture out, to enjoy this horrid “winter.”

In my first expedition to the outer world, I discovered another individual whose attire and demeanor shattered my entire belief
system. He was the Andrew of old, wearing khakis and a t-shirt. Looking at him through the slit between the
raised collar and the lowered hood, my eyes widened. I had to question this strange individual as to how it
was possible that he still had all 10 fingers and toes, how they had not succumbed to frostbite. He responded,
“You think this is cold? It is warm here.” I ran screaming back to my dorm room. It was quite
evident to me that I had just encountered an evil alien clone bent on world domination through manipulating our environment
to make it a habitat for his own kind.

After my friends talked me down from calling the President demanding a nuclear strike on Davidson to save the world,
they explained to me the entire phenomenon of this season called “winter.” I learned proper attire and methods for preventing
imminent hypothermia, a condition I have since learned, is not nearly as common as I once thought. I am a
new man. But, I still prefer fall.

Note: Andrew disavows any knowledge of any said “tampering” with any property of RLO, Davidson College, or any subsidiaries. Any
such references to applying screwdrivers to the “A/C units” should be disregarded.

2nd Note: It should also be noted that the napkins in the Commons continue to be of poor quality and
lack the “Davidson” label. Apparently, no one there reads this column...

Andrew MacDonald ’03

EDITORIALS/OPINIONS

State of the Davidsonian Address

On this, the printing of the last Davidsonian of my tenure as editor, the impending finality of my Davidson career
looms most distinctly. It’s one thing to attend one’s last home football game or one’s last Chambers Lawn tree lighting,
and entirely another to hand over what has been one’s principal extracurricular responsibility to its successor. For me, it means
reaching the end of what not too long ago seemed a monotonous tunnel. Just like former Boston Celtics center and
occasional Movies at the Lake patron Robert Parish, I’ll be retired — or at least it will feel that way.

There are certainly aspects of this post to be missed. But then again, having seven days per week instead of
six in which to accommodate Davidson’s “harder than Coastal Carolina” workload should be a nice change after five semesters with
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly.”

Thanks to those of you who have paid us compliments on the job that we have done this semester. Putting
out the newspaper each week is only rewarding as long as people actually read it and respond positively to it;
students, faculty, and staff have done both. As many as we have impressed, however, at times I feel that the
best that I can say for my term as editor is that I haven’t left the Davidsonian much worse than
I found it. This is not a particularly strong newspaper. Printing the front page in color helped, mostly in that
it masked some of the weaker albeit less noticeable elements of the publication. These flaws are not readily apparent until
one picks up a student newspaper ata rival college or university — The Chronicle (Duke), The Daily Tar Heel (UNC),
and even The Seahawk (UNCW) and The Carletonian (mailed to us occasionally courtesy of our Minnesotan neighbors at Carleton College)
are a few examples. The Davidsonian can barely hold a candle to the latter, and hardly compares with the former.
These are perhaps unfair comparisons to make, of course. These are newspapers with staffs and budgets up to five times
what ours are. Their writers probably get paid, their editors are probably less committed than ours, and some of them
may be considering journalism as a career. I’m a music major who happened to make friends with the then-Editor-in-Chief back
in ’96. That and very little else is why I sit writing this now. The Davidsonian has failed to cover
major on-campus events. We have printed so many typographical errors, we virtually validate the accusation that we are no more
than a high school caliber newspaper. There are so many improvements that could and should be made. But making them
is so much easier said than done. If working in this capacity has taught me anything, it has been that
1.) we students are not necessarily as smart as Davidson tells us we are, and that 2.) it’s tough to
place demands on those whom you are ultimately dependent upon. We have gotten the job done this semester. Insofar as
my goal has been to get the job done well, we have fallen short, and I apologize. Fortunately, there is
more than enough vision in our successors to keep this newspaper moving steadily upward. In closing, thank you, Davidson, for
the gifts you have given us this semester: the marketing task force, the campus center groundbreaking, the squabble over Griffith
Street, coed eating houses, and last but not least, angry Denham-inspired letters to the editor. I encourage you to keep
the momentum going during the holiday season and straight through the dawn of the millennium. Without you, nothing is fit
to print.

Sincerely,
WabigZf

Parting remarks from John

I can hardly believe that a year has gone by as quickly as it has. It seems like just a
couple of months ago, Wes and I were taking the reins of the paper. Now, after some crazy driving, a
few controversies, and 25 issues, our time has come to a close. I would be lying if I said that
I loved every minute of being one of the co-editors. Instead, as with most things in life, it had its
highs and lows—but I would not trade a single one of those late nights for anything. This editorial becomes more
than just an end to another year of the paper; it will be the last issue of “The Davidsonian” during
the 20th century. Somehow each word seems more important when thought of along those terms. I am happy that I
was able to be a part of this publication during my years at Davidson, but the time has come for
me to let somebody else drive. I don’t know what legacy the paper will hold from our time as editors;
one never knows what aspects will be upheld by each successive generation. Each detail of the paper holds its own
unique history, from the front page claim, “The South’s Foremost College Weekly,” to the location of the Mast Head. Regardless,
Wes and I are proud to announce that the next two editors for the year 2000 will be Mike Anderson
’02 and Alison Kalett ’01. I know as much as we were excited when we took over the paper last
January, both Mike and Alison are equally as inspired to make their mark. My future with the paper remains to
be seen; I don’t plan on disappearing, but at the same time I want Mike and Alison to be able
to make the paper what they want it to be. Wes and I had our time and I would like
to think that we have made our mark. I will not say that I am not happy that I will
suddenly have a huge chunk of life back in my life on Mondays. Yet, I know that I will miss
my time with some of the editors and staff. So before I sign off, I would like to thank the
entire Davidsonian staff and writers for their efforts this past year—you have made the paper what it is. In addition,
I want to thank all of the readers for being so supportive over the past year. Best of luck to
all of you on your exams and your holiday.

WTO: In a move toward peace, nothing but violence

I am sure many of you have been hearing about what went on this last week at the World Trade
Organization’s (WTO) Summit in Seattle. The media has been focusing on the riots that broke out and the vandalism that
occurred, but they failed to mention a few very important details. Exactly a week ago today, roughly 50,000 people came
together from all over the world in a march to promote, as the chant went, “Fair trade, not free trade.”
This mass of U.S. and foreign-born citizens, ranging from human and animal rights activists, environmental and union workers, parents and
children, gathered together for a 5-mile peace march through the streets of downtown Seattle. Before the march began, sit-ins in
multiple intersections near the Trade Center where the WTO meetings were being held. These coalition members (whose motto—“This is a
Non-Violent Protest”—was largely displayed on the backs of their shirts) had been trained in things such as jail solidarity, protest
first aid, and non-violent direct action. Like everyone else there, their cause and passion were strong and because of that,
they, like everyone else, became targets. All of the thousands of participants came to express their concern and demand that
worldwide trade must be changed. The WTO is a network of 134-member countries whose main goals are, essentially, to promote
global trade and increase living standards. Although these seem relatively harmless, they are anything but. The creation of the WTO
in 1995 led to a shift in power from local, state, and national governments to “unaccountable international bureaucrats,” or so
dubbed by the Sierra Club. Because of this move, countries—and the peoples in those countries—are unable to make moral decisions
about what is imported or exported into/out of their borders. Under the trade regulations, all member governments must be sure
that their laws conform to those set by the WTO. If for some reason they do not comply, they will
quickly be altered to do so. For example, even though both the European government and population strongly disagree with U.S.
genetically modified produce and hormone-induced beef, they are forced to import those American products. If they refused, they would be
discriminating against another member country and would thereby create a trade barrier. In short, in exchange for becoming a WTO
affiliate, a country sacrifices its right to make moral choices in issues that have an impact on environmental, labor, and
human and/or animal rights. Throughout that Tuesday morning, and into the early afternoon, non-violent protestors were beaten, clubbed, shot with
rubber bullets, pelted with tear gas, and drenched with pepper spray. It was not until later that day that a
group of self-proclaimed anarchists began to vandalize and...

WTO continued on page 6
