4___THE DAVIDSONIAN

COLLEGE RELATIONS

Davidson’s Ben Klein says that good teachers must demonstrate a personal interest in their students and their students’ academic achievements.
He adds that good teachers also try to convey to students a sense of excitement about their courses. Klein, the
Beverly F. Dolan Professor of Mathematics, clearly practices what he preaches. He has won two previous teaching honors and has
now received the 1999 Distinguished Teaching Award from the southeastern section of the Mathematics Association of America (MAA). About 350
of the 2,000 members of the section, which covers five states, were gathered for its annual meeting in Memphis when
the award was presented on March 12.

Klein responded to the award modestly, saying, “It’s humbling to be recognized by the association, particularly at a place like
Davidson where there are so many good teachers. I prefer to consider myself not as an individual in this case,
but as a representative of my department and the entire institution.”

An awards committee of the section selected Klein based on his collaborative approach to learning. His citation noted, “The student
who simply wants to be told how to work a problem quickly learns that is not going to happen. Ben
will gently prompt the student to define the concepts involved, to state relevant theorems, and to take ever larger steps
in the process. The reward is a mathematical idea acquired, and some good cheering from Ben along the way.”

The citation also noted Klein’s leadership both on the Davidson campus and in the MAA. He has been a member
of the MAA’s southeastern section since coming to Davidson in 1971. He served on many of its committees, and he
was its chair from 1993-95. He currently co-edits the problem section for its “College Mathematics Journal.” He has also been
vice president for colleges in the western region of the North Carolina Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCCTM), and he
is a frequent speaker at NCCTM meetings.

He not only teaches math at Davidson but also holds the title of Interim Chair of the college’s Department of
Education, based on his long-time service as chair of the Teacher Education Committee. This position follows a distinguished record of
other college service that includes Department Chair, Vice Chair of the Faculty Pro tem, and Interim Dean of the Faculty.
His teaching has been previously recognized with Davidson’s 1990 Thomas Jefferson Award and the “North Carolina Professor of the Year”
award in 1991 from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education.

Professor Ben Klein wins a top teaching award

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

Professor Ben Klein (l), in class with senior math students

Giduz Photo c/o College Communications

Sara Ehinger (c) and Laura Barron (r), won a top teaching award

Continued from previous page

Some people are in it to showcase themselves, but Joe serves the play and doesn’t let his ego intrude.” Highlights
of Gardner’s work include Davidson's “The Madwoman of Chaillot,” “Misalliance,” “Hedda Gabler,” and “Rashomon;” Charlotte Repertory Theatre’s “The Elephant Man,”
“Talley’s Folly,” “The Foreigner,” “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and “Angels in America, Parts I and II;” Children’s Theatre of Charlotte’s
“The Year of the Perfect Christmas Tree” and “Stranger on the Bus;” Tarradiddle Players’ “Pinocchio,” “Step on a Crack,” and
“Androcles and the Lion;” N.C. Shakespeare Festival’s “Tartuffe;” Spirit Square’s “A Christmas Carol;” CPCC Summer Theatre’s “Showboat,” “Carousel,” “Metropolis,” “Into
the Woods,” “Chess,” and “Camelot.”

Gardner pointed out that one of the most valuable products of the professorial association with Charlotte Repertory Theatre is the
opportunity it opens for students. Davidson theatre students regularly intern at the Rep, and two ’98 graduates, Sarah Hankins and
Tuyet-Linh Tran, are now working there. In addition, 1997 Davidson theatre major Josh Gaffga has taken the Charlotte stage by
storm this year. Gaffga has acted in starring roles for several Charlotte companies, including the Rep, and was recently named
“Actor of the Year” by Creative Loafing. The paper’s reviewer, Perry Tannenbaum, wrote, “At times during his awesome breakout year,
young Gaffga seemed limitless.”

Several other recent graduates are also finding success in quality professional programs across the country. For Gardner, that’s the best
possible payoff for his efforts. He said, “Since we are first of all teachers, it’s especially gratifying to see our
students take advantage of the preparations, guidance and support we try to offer so that they land on their feet
when they leave here.”

Campus Police Blotter 3/12/99 to 3/26/99

3/14/99: At 4:00 AM, Mecklenburg County received a call from a female student reporting two suspicious persons in Rusk House.
She said the two males were not Davidson students. Campus Police Officer Ramsey was dispatched to the house, and he
checked the house and surrounding areas. Ramsey cleared the call after nothing was found.

3/18/99: A maintenance employee reported that several items of lawn equipment had been taken from the Maintenance Shop located on
Ridge Road in Davidson and from the club cars outside the shop. The reporting person had first noticed the missing
items on Monday, March 15, and last remembered the items being secured on Friday, March 12. He also knew that
several items had been taken before March 12 but couldn’t remember the dates. The items taken were entered into the
NCIC, and they include four chain saws, two hedge trimmers, three weed eaters, and three backpack leaf blowers. The total
value of the stolen items is $5070.

3/19/99: A student reported a stolen laptop computer at 11:36 AM. The victim had last seen the laptop at 4:30
PM on March 18, andhe discovered the loss at 6:30 PM on that day. The student had left the computer
in his personal carrel in E.H. Little Library when he went to dinner. When he came back, his computer was
gone. The computer is listed as a Macintosh 1400CS Series. It is gray, and its serial number is 1PM5287LL/A. A
Davidson Fire Sticker is also attached to the computer. Its listed value is $2,500.

3/23/99: Four suspects were caught damaging the location sign near the front entrance of the Carnegie Guest House at 3:50
AM. When the suspects saw Officer Stanley Moore approaching them, they fled on foot. After a brief foot chase, Officer
Moore subdued one of the suspects, an eighteen-year-old, white male. That subject was then arrested and charged with damage to
real property and resisting a public officer. The estimated damage to the sign is $150.

3/25/99: At 3:36 PM, Officer Laney received a call from the Charlotte Mecklenburg Dispatch Center concerning a working fire at
the College Laundry. He went to the scene, where he met the Davidson and Cornelius Fire Departments. With the firefighters,
Officer Laney found that some mop heads had caught on fire in one of the College dryers. Laundry Director John
Cherry had successfully put out the blaze with an extinguisher. Besides the ruined mop heads, there was no monetary damage.

Service conference: Davidson students travel to Salt Lake City
By AMANDA L. MORPAVSKY
Staff Writer

Many students at Davidson are involved in various service activities, ranging from adopting a grandparent at the Pines to tutoring
a young child at Davidson Elementary. One of the concerns of the Service Council, a student-run organization that promotes service
both on and off campus, is how to encourage students to maintain these activities all four years at Davidson. The
Council sends representatives annually to the Campus Outreach Opportunity League (COOL) Service Conference. This year, the conference was held in
Salt Lake City, Utah, and the Service Council sent two representatives: Jonathan Hill-Alto, a freshman Bonner Scholar, and Lee Ann
Petty, a sophomore who acts as both secretary and treasurer for the Service Council.

These two students spent three days in Salt Lake City attending various conferences that covered ways to improve the quality
of service on college campuses. Wayne Meisel, who also founded the Bonner Scholars program, founded the COOL Conference in 1984.
This year, over 2,000 college students attended the conference from both the United States and England. Students bonded with each
other over the period of three days, all sleeping in the University of Utah gymnasium. As Petty explained, “It was
just like a giant slumber party.” Using each other as resources as well as using the input of various speakers
at the event, the students were able to gather ideas about how to improve their existing programs and how to
create new ones on their respective campuses.

Students were able to choose from a variety of workshops, ranging from how to run an effective meeting to reflections
upon service activities. The workshops were held daily and featured organizers of service organizations such as AmeriCorps and speakers from
colleges and universities throughout the United States. During these workshops, students were given suggestions and participated in activities dealing with
the subject matter. They also had the opportunity to interact with the speakers and the other students in order to
gain new perspectives on the respective subjects.

In addition to the workshops, students attended panel discussions about Social Security and homelessness that featured homeless people speaking about
their situations. These panel discussions allowed for the students to address the speakers directly with both their questions and comments.
Petty attended many of the workshops and participated in an activity called “Tree Utah” in which students planted local trees.
Petty enjoyed her experience, saying, “The highlight for me was the interaction with other students and learning what they are
doing at their schools. The conference is about learning about other service projects from other schools.” Petty continued by explaining
that many of the ideas discussed at the conference would be implemented at Davidson in order to improve the existing
service activities. “We hope to encourage more student involvement as well as make the existing programs better and stronger,” she
said. One of the speakers at the conference said, “Question not what power you hold, but how you wield the
power you have.” Petty hopes that with these new ideas, Davidson students will be encouraged to participate in more service
activities both on campus and in the community.

Watson Fellowship Continued from page 1

Setina, an outstanding scholar majoring in English, is writing an honors thesis on the influence of photography on American modernist
poet Marianne Moore, who was a fervent admirer and friend of noted photographers like Richard Avedon and Alfred Stieglitz. At
Davidson, Setina was awarded the Alumni Association Award for highest grade point average in her freshman year. She is also
a member of the Honor Council, Reach Out service organization, and is a Senior Admission Fellow.

Founded in 1968, the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Program gives exceptional college graduates the opportunity to participate in a year
of independent study and travel abroad. It was founded by the children of Thomas J. Watson Sr., the founder of
IBM, and his wife, Jeannette K. Watson, to honor their parents’ longstanding interest in education and world affairs. The foundation
selects fellows based on each nominee’s character, academic record, leadership potential, willingness to delve into another culture, and the personal
significance of the proposed project. Since the foundation’s inception, it has granted nearly 2,000 Watson Fellowship awards with stipends totaling
approximately $22,000,000.
