ie t Body

By Kim BiEMULLER
Student Health Advisor

Who’s that? Are they “together”? Is that the new girl? Oh, you haven’t heard yet? Lines such as these are
just a few of those frequently heard around campus. Often these words are spoken in connection with a fleeting, wondering
glance. This kind of talk suggests an obsession our society has with defining dating: an obsession that is particularly prevalent
here at Davidson.

For kicks, place yourself in the following scenario. A girl asks a guy to go with her to a movie
one night. Because of the size and limited entertainment options around Davidson, the couple is of course seen by many
of their fellow classmates. When the onlookers see the couple kissing at the Movies at the Lake, they turn to
one another and whisper the question, “Are they going out?” And the cycle of unending comments and questions starts. Information
gathering, story exchanges, sighting comparisons, and general banter follow an initial sighting. No juicy tidbit of detail remains unsaid.

After having gone on this “outing,” what exactly is the status? How does one define the situation? Is the fact
important that she asked him? Perhaps the activity chosen is what makes the difference... or is it how they say
goodnight? Is there another planned outing at the end of the evening? In writing the above, I carefully omitted the
sensitive and official term “date.” Without doing so, I would be presuming that the couple was “dating,” when that is
not the case.

Who can decipher the boundaries and stepping stones that differentiate between “seeing each other,” “dating,” and “going out”? Many people
adopt the idea that “going out” is synonymous with exclusively dating. That may seem clear enough, but there does not
seem to be such a precise definition for either “dating” or the cliché “seeing each other.” Some say the difference
between the two words may be found in intent or the lack thereof. Others say the definition may be found
in the activities that occur behind closed doors. Following this idea, where should we file the frequent encounters around Patterson
Court? Perhaps such occurrences cannot be filed under any traditional heading. What we need are some new terms.

Maybe what actually goes on now isn’t dating. Is what we call dating merely “hooking up”? Does the act really
necessitate labeling? Any word would have to be vague in meaning. How does the label actually play a part in
what’s going on... or does it? Challenge yourself: is what you say what you really mean? Are you too using
definitions because it’s comfortable? Does defining make describing the situation to your friends easier? Does a definition really clarify what’s
happening? Do you define before giving time a chance to play its role in sorting things out because you obtain
some feeling of being in control? Perhaps definition provides validation.

Trust yourself. You know what’s going on. If you need a definition and a fitting one doesn’t exist, make your
own. But first decide if it’s a definition that you actually need.

Trust yourself. You know what’s going on.

You’ve been making memories, now build a future. You're making memories that will last a lifetime. But after college does
the excitement have to end? Work with Aerotek. Aerotek, a nationally recognized leader in the contract services & consulting industries,
is...Actively recruiting a diverse community of college graduates for careers in recruiting and sales. Contract services have skyrocketed to a
$100 billion-a-year industry, and Aerotek is leading the way as the fastest-growing contract services firm in the U.S.! With Aerotek,
you can play a role in client relations from development to market, “selling” the market's top professionals on working for
Aerotek, then selling them on providing their services to our Fortune 500 clients. With Aerotek, a memorable future can be
just ahead.

* A competitive salary plus bonuses and comprehensive benefits.
* Career planning to support advancement into sales & management.
* Nationwide opportunity - positions in 130 branch offices across the United States.

Contact us at:
Aerotek/College Relations,
7301 Parkway Dr., Hanover, MD 21706,
1-800-AEROTEK.
Fax: (410) 579-3005.
E-mail: careers@aerotek.com.

---

By Tony Marino
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1999

Real Live Poets bring New York
Staff Writer

On Friday the 12th, a trio of poets came to the 900 room. They came not to read their poetry
but to perform it. These three poets are members of Real Live Poets, a band of performance artists who draw
inspiration from the Beat movement that began in the 1950s. This movement emphasized the power of the spoken word. The
Real Live Poets are on a quest. Their quest is to take poetry from its current position atop the marble
pedestal of academia and bring it down to the rest of us.

Continued on page 11

---

Classical Gas

CLASSICAL GAS

Across
1. Play freely
5. Figure
10. Plague
14. Geometry calculation
15. Spooky
16. Like good cheese
17. Pore over
18. Disney heroine
19. Kind of bear
20. Classical part of a bicycle?
22. OH city
23. Summer drink
24. Stockbroker’s advice
26. Spanish more
29. Rocker Billy
32. Kind of “d”?
36. Bandleader Shaw
38. Luke or his dad
40. There are seven.
41. Hamilton’s scourge
42. Birthday party treat
43. What Gordon does
44. First murder victim
45. Breads
46. Grows in Brooklyn
47. Agate
49. Plumbing problem
51. Snake’s comment?
52. Devours
54. Expire
56. She makes Juicy Juice
59. Classical playground game?
65. Concept
66. Ill-fated lover
67. Devito sitcom
68. Actor Baldwin
69. Water brand
70. Peron et al.
71. Type of shorts
72. Swerves
73. Sleep stages

Down
1. Outbreak
2. Shamu, i.e.
3. Average
4. Bamboo eater
5. With A Kiss
6. Spice
7. Opera highlight
8. Docks’ equals?
9. Slippery fish
10. Classical book catalog?
11. Red algae
12. Crazed Roman emperor
13. Paradise
21. Singer Brickell
22. Mode precedent
25. Eastern chief
26. Call Me
27. Caribbean island
28. Cattle
30. “Love Train” singer
31. Tool with bubbles
33. Eye drops
34. Pillages
35. Curves
37. Classical movie quote?
39. Medicine amount
42. Worry
46. Family
48. What hens do to eggs
50. Extra inclusions (hyph.)
53. What push comes to
55. Fragrant compound
56. Actor Neeson
57. In neutral
58. Worker insects
60. Pure Prairie League song
61. Light or leap follower
62. Shingle
63. Test
64. Labial massage
66. Run: one’s engine
