THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Brad Stevenson
Sports Writer

Earlier this spring, the coaches of the Southern Conference released their annual preseason rankings of the men’s tennis teams. After
an impressive second-place finish in the conference tournament the year before, the ‘Cats expected to see themselves in the top
tier of the preseason rankings. To their dismay, the coaches ranked the squad sixth out of eleven teams in the
SC. Since that time, the Wildcats, playing with the drive that only underdogs possess, have raced out to a 15-7
overall record, a 7-2 conference record, and a second-place standing in the SC.

“The kids believed they were a better team than the coaches gave them credit for,” said Coach Frank, “and they
went out to prove it.” The ‘Cats have defeated two of the five teams ahead of them in the preseason
rankings (College of Charleston and UNC-Greensboro), with a third opponent, Furman, still to play. The team has won seven of
their past ten matches, including the recent 7-0 rout of VMI and the 5-2 victory over Appalachian State.

Billy Boykin continues to dominate the Southern Conference at #5 singles. He has posted a 9-0 conference record after returning
from shoulder injuries that sidelined him last spring and fall. After moving up from #5 singles during last year’s season
to #2 singles this season, sophomore Whit Hansen has also been an integral factor in the ‘Cats conference success. He
has won seven matches while losing only two. As a first-year player, freshman Chad Winebarger has performed exceptionally, posting a
6-3 record. At the #1 position, seniors Judson Sutherland and Scott Briggs have anchored the team’s doubles, defeating six opponents
and losing to only three.

“Overall, I’ve been really proud of the way the team has played,” Frank said. “We’ve been consistently good, but we
now have to understand that, with this success, people will probably be gunning for us.” After their last match against
Furman (previously canceled because of rain), the team will look ahead to the conference tournament. With the second seed in
the conference, the ‘Cats will have a first-round bye. Their first match will then be on Friday, April 16th, against
either the College of Charleston or Georgia Southern.

Sports Writer

Competing in their first dual meet of the outdoor season, the Davidson women’s track team traveled to Wake Forest on
Saturday, April 10, to compete against UNC-Asheville, UNC-Greensboro, Radford, and Wake Forest. Unfavorable hot and muggy weather conditions could not
prevent numerous personal bests.

Junior Yolanda Kirby kicked off the morning’s event in the javelin with her tremendous throw of 96 feet. The throw
earned Kirby a first-place finish and a new school record. Fellow junior Kristy Noesges finished second with a strong throw
of 78.9 feet. The sprinter quartet composed of senior Jamilah Sawyer, sophomore Machelle Borders

SPECIAL 2 WEEKS SALE
April 11-25

MILWAUKEE'S BEST BEERS (Regular/Light/Ice) — 24 pk/12 oz.
BUSCH (Regular & Light) — 24 pk/12 oz.
Corona (Regular & Light) — 12 pk/12 oz.
Anchor Steam — 6 pk/12 oz.
CASCADE Yogurts — 6 oz.
TOFU PUPS — 6 pk/12 oz.
GRANOLA Blueberries 'N Cream
AFTER THE FALL 24 Karrot Orange Juice — 32 oz.
CLIFF BARS — all varieties
GARDEN OF EATIN’ Tortilla Chips — Assorted Varieties — 7.5 oz.
AMY'S PIZZA — 10% student discount (except beer, wine & vitamins on sale)
TOFUTTI CUTIES Choc. Vanilla — 16/12 oz. 1.99Davidson defeated both teams in the regular season. Frank believes either match-up will
pose a challenge to the squad. Freshmen Wendy Legerton and Takiyah Smith earned third place in the 4x100 meter relay.
Davidson continued to do well in the sprinting events. Smith placed an incredible 2nd overall in the 100-meter with a
time of 13.14. Sophomores Smyth Bitter and Machelle Borders raced the 200-meter in 26.84 and 28.14, respectively. Bitter was 0.1
second off the Davidson school record. In her third race of the day, Borders kicked in a strong 400-meters clocked
at 28.14. Sawyer was double trouble for her competitors in the 100 and 400-meter hurdles, placing 1st and 4th overall,
respectively, in the two events. Freshman Wendy Legerton joined Sawyer in the 400-meter hurdles with a strong 8th place finish.

The first distance race of the day was the 1500-meter. Bitter and freshman Lucy Billingsley both had impressive times of
4:45.8 and 4:49.3, respectively, earning them 2nd and 3rd place finishes overall. Billingsley captured her personal best by five seconds.
Also showing strong races in the 1500-m were freshman Hannah Grimes (5:19) and seniors Jenny Klotz (5:31) and Tab Combs
(5:41). In the 800-meter, freshman Rhiannon Ollis undoubtedly ran the race of the day when she smashed her personal best
record with a time of 2:28.90. Also earning her personal best, freshman Julia Kudravetz crossed the finish line in a
solid 2:34.10. Battling out the 3000-meter in the heat of the day were the senior threesome of Beth Brewster, Katie
Lannon, and Ellen Runnels and sophomore Clare Frey. Frey finished an impressive 7th place overall. The team travels to Appalachian
State this coming weekend in final preparation for the Southern Conference meet in two weeks.

Men’s tennis faces Southern Conference doubters. “The Georgia Southern match was very close, and we actually lost the doubles point
and two of the singles against College of Charleston, forcing us to win the last four singles matches.” Frank cites
doubles play as a key to any tournament success the ‘Cats hope to have. Although doubles was the team's strength
early in the season, it has been somewhat erratic since. “We have to do better with the doubles points,” Frank
stated, “We don’t want to have to win four of the six singles against many of these teams.” He also
believes consistency throughout the tournament is crucial. “We’re going to have to play well, to play consistent all the way
through. The top of the conference is very close, but if we play up to form, then we hopefully can
get to the finals.”

As if disproving the SC coaches’ earlier expectations isn’t enough of a motivation, there is an added incentive to winning
the Southern Conference tournament. For the first time, the tournament champion receives an automatic bid to the sixty-four team NCAA
Championships. This would be a historic first for the Davidson tennis team, but it certainly looks to be within reach.
