12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

In November, Davidson College will have the privilege of hosting Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux, the world-renowned choreographer and director, when the North
Carolina Dance Theatre comes to campus to conduct a mini-residency program. Bonnefoux will instruct fifteen lucky Davidson students in a
Master's class, discussing various aspects of dance including movement, interpretation, and performance. Members of the NCDT will also offer three
performances the weekend of Nov. 12 and 13 in Hodson Hall.

Born in France, Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux joined the Paris Opera Ballet at age 14 and was named danseur étoile at 21.
He has also danced with the Bolshoi, Kirov, and New York City ballet companies. During his ten years at NYCB,
he worked with the great ballet master George Balanchine, who first encouraged Bonnefoux to choreograph his own works. Since his
final performance in 1980, he has dedicated himself to work as an artistic director, choreographer, and teacher. It is due
to his pursuit of innovations in dance that Bonnefoux will not be a stranger to the Davidson Campus.

Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux has been working closely with Herb Jackson '67, a renowned abstract painter and professor of art at Davidson
College. Together, they have created a unique artistic collaboration that will fill Charlotte’s Blumenthal Center Belk Theater with color and
motion on the weekend of October 1 and 2, and give art lovers a revealing look at the creative process.
Photos of Jackson’s painting in succeeding phases of its creation will be projected onto the floor and back wall of
the stage and onto the dancers themselves, covering them with changing colors as if they were inside the painting. The
final projection will reveal Jackson’s finished work. When the dancers leave the stage, Jackson will speak to the audience, and
then the artwork itself will be put up for auction, with proceeds benefitting NCDT.

A Celebratory Creation

This unique form of dance presentation is rarely seen, according to Bonnefoux. He has chosen to produce and premiere it
to help kick off the NCDT’s 30th Anniversary Season. “I have always thought Herb’s work is so theatrical,” said Bonnefoux,
“It’s a different world and you want to enter into that world.” Likewise, Jackson is a longtime supporter and subscriber
to NCDT performances, and has served on its regional board of advisors. “I love dancers, their intensity and their grace,”
Jackson said. “And they work so hard for their art and the community for such little financial reward.”

Behind the Scenes

After the two men met at an NCDT event, Bonnefoux asked to visit Jackson in his studio. During that visit,
he became intrigued by Jackson’s creative process, layering coats and coats of paint on canvas; at the same time, he
scratches and scrapes the canvas to reveal previous coats and bring complexity and depth to the final work. “It was
so inspiring to see his paintings,” said Bonnefoux. “I told him right there I wanted to work with him someday.”
As they talked further, Bonnefoux developed his ideas for a production designed to give audiences insight into the artistic process.
“I don’t think people have any idea what Herb goes through to come to the final result, and I think
that will be interesting for people to see,” said Bonnefoux.

For his part in the collaboration, Jackson allowed a photographer to record the 20" x 40" painting at 16 stages
of its creation. During the premiere, it will be projected on the Belk Theater back wall and floor through large
format projectors, or “light cannons” at 12 times life size. Bonnefoux said he will mirror that glimpse at Jackson’s artistic
process through the choreography of his dance. “I will have groups of dancers on stage who perform separately, then have
them moving together to show how individual movements blend in the final composition,” he said.

Jewels in Charlotte’s Crown

Jackson said he never dreamed of being part of a dance creation, and is especially pleased to have been asked
by Bonnefoux. “It’s an immense honor to be on the stage with NCDT,” said Jackson. “It’s incredible that Charlotte has
this level of dance company. A lot of folks haven’t seen them and don’t know how world-class they are.” The
creation will also reinforce Bonnefoux’s reputation as an innovative artist whois putting Charlotte on the national map of dance. Since
he began directing the troupe in 1996, the NCDT budget has doubled to $2.7 million, and he has staged several
world premieres. Last year, he engineered another successful collaboration with a visual artist, projecting huge images of dancers in performance
on big screens on the stage, giving the audience an entirely different perspective on the dance as it occurred. He
emphasizes that working with Jackson will not only present a new collaboration to the audience, but should also contribute to
his own personal artistic growth. Bonnefoux said, “I work frequently with musicians, but it takes a little courage to try
something new. However, the new technology is very exciting to explore. I believe this work will help me become more
than what I am now.” Jackson is donating the painting, which has a retail value of more than $5,000, to
the NCDT, and photographer David Ramsey donated his services as well. Charlotte gallery owner Jerald Melberg is also donating 1,000
posters of the painting to NCDT so that all patrons at the premiere can take home at least some rendition
of the work they will see on stage. NCDT officials say the auction and poster sales will go a long
way toward helping meet the organization’s contributed income goal of $632,000 this year. To find out more about the NCDT
mini-residency at Davidson, call the College Ticket Office M-F 2:30-5:30 at (704) 892-2135. For information about the artistic collaboration of
Herb Jackson and Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux, contact the NCDT Box Office at (704) 372-1000.

On the Scene at Davidson College

Faculty Art Exhibit. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the Belk Visual Arts Center. See works by Herb
Jackson, Russ Warren, and Cort Savage.

Reception. 4:00 - 6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

William Tucker Exhibit. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the Belk Visual Arts Center.

Jumpin’ Java. If the coffeehouse isn’t enough, we have this! 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

Lunch: Eatcrop. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m.

Student Health. An important thing. Be healthy from 3:00 - 4:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

Student Phone Services. Come get your phone serviced (not really), 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. in the College Union.

Coffeehouse. Keep that coffee flowing. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Don’t Forget the Faculty and William Tucker Exhibits in the VAC! 12:00 - 4:00 p.m.

Kathleen Norris. She will be in the DCPC Sanctuary from 7:30 - 9:30 p.m.

Chess Club. Still can’t find Bobby... 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Jumpin’ Java. No juggling. Just coffee. Outpost. 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

FRIDAY

Good Morning Coffee and Doughnut. If you are unlucky enough to be up this early, then get some free food
from 8:00 - 8:30 a.m. in the Chambers Lobby.

“Taxi Driver.” NY cabbie confesses all. Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“Last Night Up.” That's what they think. From 9:00 - 11:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

“The Vandals”: A Staged Reading. Professor Alan Michael Parker's latest collection of poetry is read in dramatic fashion. 8:00 p.m.
- 9:30 p.m. in the VAC.

But, There is No Luau this week. Sorry kids.

Taxi Driver. 9:30 - 11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Fall Festival- “Everything.” Go see “everything.” It is all there. From 6:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. on Joneltg. From 7:00
- 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Ice Cream Social. 9:00 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. Free ice cream (I think). Why not go? 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. No juggling. Just coffee. Outpost. 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
