_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dave and Erich

The return of the only column you ever need to read

To all the juniors returning from your wonderful and exciting experiences abroad or to those that have been oblivious to
our unparalleled journalistic talents, we would like to warn you about the unnecessarily crass and immature nature of this article.
If you are easily upset by irrelevant issues that most likely don’t concern you or if you are a sheltered,
anal individual looking for something to spark or re-spark your sincere hatred for us, STOP READING! It is not worth
it. We know it is crap.

Over the break and during our first few weeks back, we received a myriad (none) of letters begging us to
come out of retirement. (We were forced to resign). So, we are back. Why do this? (Not that you care
anyway). We care about the Davidson student (lie), and feel the need to inform you about important issues concerning our
school (another lie). We don’t write because it strokes our (already massive) ego; we really care about you (yet another
lie).

Note: The opinions expressed in this article are not those of Davidson College, the faculty or staff, nor those of
the Davidsonian staff; hell, they aren’t even ours. So, get out your pens and pads and get ready to jot
down all your inane ideas for a rebuttal article. You will do this because you have nothing better on which
to spend your time.

This week's topic: Self Selection

As we awoke alone once again, in our beds on a beautiful Saturday morning, we realized how great a time
everyone on campus had the night before. Think about it: naked guys, drunk girls, and fun in a completely consequence-ridden
environment. Any taboo acts that you were involved in are rapidly spread across campus or appear in the newspaper. You
are now considered easy, a jackass, or a stud. (Somehow your authors always seem to wind up in that middle
category. Go figure.)

With the help of our campus-wide networking and extensive investigative team, we have compiled some information and some suggestions regarding
incidents that occurred on self-selection night.

First, we have been in deliberation with the PCC and have come to the conclusion that a by-law must be
passed making the women’s houses join in on the festivities. Either that, or get some sororities around here. Girls are
too conservative.

Second, every girl on Friday was looking to get some action. No joke. Some even talked to us. Why does
this occur solely on self-selection night? The answer: the girls drink like guys. Why is this the case? Meet someone
that you think is cute but make sure that they don’t find out, because they will play with your mind.
Stalk. Be psycho. Build up your defenses and go for the jugular. Take no prisoners. Stoop lower than the other
guy to get what you want. Pull the trigger. Hook up with his/her friends before he/she hooks up with yours.
Rebound quicker than he/she does. Be insincere.

We have compiled a list of what Davidson students wanted this holiday season. This can be translated into, “Parents, buy
me this, or I will bitch for a year.”

Our New Year’s Resolution: not to lie as much and to talk about relevant issues (already broke it). To ensure
the complete and random nature of this article, as well as frustrate and annoy as many people as possible, we
have some thoughts from us to you; not you, the cute one.

Many of you have noticed that virtually all the structures on campus are red brick, including many of the sidewalks
and stairs. Also, many of you have noticed the construction that took place all last semester due to the fact
that some genius forgot to put in boiler pipes for the Watson Science Complex. All things considered, the front side
of Chambers is relatively pleasing to the eye, but this will change soon. The completely functional asphalt road that runs
from Watson past Little and the President’s house (not the one in D.C.) to Main Street is to be torn
up in the near future. Why? This road will be replaced by a red brick road that will cost a
mere hundred thousand dollars. Are you joking? The yellow brick road to Oz had to cost less and looked a
lot better. Where are we importing the bricks from, the Union Cafe? Bobby really got a deal on those. We
are not contractors, but we are pretty sure that putting a boiler in Watson would have cost less. In addition,
we could have avoided ripping up the campus a half a dozen times. Honestly, the new brick road makes no
sense. If we are that strapped for cash that we can’t have the lights on in Chambers at night, why
the hell are we building a hundred thousand dollar road? What’s next? Marble tile in the senior apartments? Or maybe
a free computer to all incoming freshmen? Better yet, we could buy a Lear jet to replace the Vamanos van
so students can go wherever they want on weekends.

Ladies, strap one on and join the rest of us. Third, to anyone that went to the hospital: you are
a moron and should take it upon yourself to admit that it was solely your fault and not that of
the house at which you were drinking. Know your limits. This is what high school is for, people. If you
cause your house to get reprimanded for your stupidity, you don’t deserve to be in that house. Don’t let something
like this happen again. We seem to be a bit hard about this issue, but it is something that happens
multiple times each year to freshmen and never upperclassmen. Sit and drink in your rooms and find out how much
you can drink every night. We don’t care, but stop ruining the social scene on campus for something that you
could have prevented! Sigh.

Motivational Thoughts Max Nelson Style

©Copyright Dave and Erich & Co. Enterprises Inc.

Take advantage of your time at Davidson. Don’t be the typical student, go out more than once a week. Go
for the gold. Don’t compromise. You can always do better. Don’t be judgmental.

1. North Face, North Face, North Face!!!! Shoes, hats, backpacks, jackets, who cares? I am materialistic and must have this
to fit in here.
2. Ugly shoes with big heels. For God’s sake, the girls here are only taller than 80% of Kappa Sig.
3. Some type of new vehicle that costs about $20,000 more than it should. If you can’t make friends at
Davidson, you can buy them!
4. Black “sex pants,” own 7 pairs right now.

New Year’s Resolutions: stop smoking, lose weight, start working out, learn to drink in moderation, date Op-Ed authors, get a
sense of humor.

New Year’s resolutions that have already gone bad: stop smoking, lose weight, start working out, learn to drink in moderation,
date Op-Ed authors, get a sense of humor.On people. Use your heads. To conclude on this subject, please don’t begin
laying the road yet. Chances are you will have botched something up and will have to dig it up again.
A small note to David Rosenberg: Our sources inform us that you are the epitome of a frat dog; therefore,
you understand your mistake. You only gave the faculty a couple more reasons to hate the court. Way to go,
Dave! By the way, do you even know where the court is? However, you do make two important points. First,
we agree that the Phi Delt pledges did outwit the KA pledges. They are obviously much smarter. They proved this
when they decided to pledge Phi Delt. He also pointed out the plain and indisputable fact that no one goes
to KA parties. Maybe if KA is lucky, when Phi Delt goes dry in 2000, someone might accidentally walk into
the KA house. They realize that any effort previous to this date would simply result in complete and utter failure.
The brothers of KA have had Jan 1, 2000 marked on their calendars for quite a long time. They are
currently rounding up as many black lights, chicks that like to box, and lewd, chauvinistic comments as they can.

Inside the Numbers:
9. Number of eating houses and fraternities on Patterson Court.
3. Number expecting probation after one weekend back on campus. RLO, thanks from all of us.
17. Age of Britney Spears. You know who she is.
36. Temperature in degrees Fahrenheit, the night of self-selection.
41. Percentage of actual size.

Coming in two weeks: How to have fun at Davidson by ruining the monotony of what is here. Plus, RLO:
We attempt to explain the laziness and stupidity.

* Phil Reed

Lowering our standards for sex very attractive; will you go to bed with me? So go the only lyrics in
a song by the band Touch & Go. There is no evident relationship here. No commitment. No marriage or love.
All that exists in this case is an attraction between two people, and then, of course, sex follows. Perhaps this
is all it takes anymore. Today, sex holds a lighter role than ever before in America. We have come to
a position in our society where it is commonplace for two people to commit fornication or adultery. Marriage is often
meaningless and most relationships hold little value. One-night-stands and “random hookups” are accepted and even condoned. We have lowered our
standards for sex to a position where its prevalence drowns any remaining trust and integrity. This was something that sex
was never intended to be, and the Davidson campus serves as a perfect witness to this tragedy.

Just two weeks ago, condoms were made available to us on self-selection night. Surely we did not receive them to
make water balloons. Rather, they were offered in order to protect us from STDs and unwanted pregnancies. But in what
context was this protection recommended? Only on one of the senseless and imprudent nights of the semester, where drunkenness reaches
its peak and sexual attraction accompanies it. Thus by passing out condoms when such activity is likely to happen, we
only promote taking any sexual relations one step further.

We read in the Libertas about dispelling the myth of sexuality. The author argues in the December 3rd issue that
within the Davidson student body, “There are pregnancies (and abortions), there are diseases, rapes, and drive-by quickies.” These occurrences, he
argues, are a reality that exists on the Davidson campus. But it almost seems as if the author is proud
of this fact. How can we honestly think to ourselves that having a “drive-by quickie” is some sort of unthinkable
goal we can become satisfied with by acknowledging its reality? Congratulations, we have now lost all sense of decency. The
author also mentions the myth that at Davidson “we choose our sexual preferences deliberately and soundly,” and goes on to
ask why we cherish this “absurd” fallacy. It is true that some of us sleep around on a regular basis,
but to question the cherishing of good moral character is absurd.

I am not arguing that sexual promiscuity and fornication cannot exist in a place as “perfect” as Davidson, rather I
challenge the notion that because they do exist we should consider them justified or excusable. When Gloria Steinem came to
campus last semester, she spoke of sex as “an act of communication.” Now, I may be considered extreme, but if
someone were to ask me to name an act of communication, sex would not come to mind. A handshake? A
hug, maybe. I don’t know, perhaps talking? But sex? When we put sex on the same level as, say, conversation,
it is no wonder that we have pregnancies, diseases, and rapes. Steinem believes in a convenient approach to sex. We
want to make sex this trivial engagement because it is easier for us this way. We can gratify our pleasures
and we do not have to be accountable to anyone.

Of course, it would be impossible for me to write this article without mentioning the impeached President. But perhaps what
concerns me more than Clinton’s inappropriate conduct is our reaction to it. “What’s at stake in the Lewinsky scandal is
not the right to privacy,” says columnist David Frum, “but the central dogma of the baby boomers: the belief that
sex, so long as it’s consensual, ought never to be subject to moral scrutiny at all.” We insist that the
whole trial is about sex, and use this for a reason to dismiss his conduct. We just don’t care if
he has sex with White House interns half his age. It’s no big deal; everyone commits adultery. The truth, however,
is that sex is more than that. Adultery eliminates any concept of trust upon which our culture depends. William J.
Bennett, editor of The Book of Virtues, says this: “In marriage, one person has been entrusted with the soul of
another. That power, freely given, is unlike any other human relationship; so, too, is the damage that can be done.
This ought not to be made light of, shrugged off, or made fun of.” Yet we still see no problem
with our president’s conduct.

Our view, then, is that sex is gradually becoming a meaningless action. It is ordinary and prevalent, and there is
nothing we can do about it. Who cares if you partake in a one-night-stand? Who cares if you have sex
with a prostitute? It’s no one’s business but your own and you have the right to have sex with whomever
you please, married or unmarried. You could merely be a Davidson College student participating in an act of communication with
a condom given to you by the college; or you could be the President of the United States receiving oral
sex in the White House by an intern young enough to be your daughter. It simply doesn’t matter. However, I
urge you to carefully consider your sexual relationships and the implications that they will have. The true myth lies in
considering sex trivial. We must stop lowering our standards to make life easier and more convenient for us; we must
regard sex as the significant and invaluable engagement that it truly is.
