THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Priscilla Stewart
Staff Writer

We see a young man with a video camera, aiming it towards the ground. Behind him, there is the most
beautiful blue sky imaginable. In the left side of the frame, an airplane passes by silently. Cut to the ground,
where we see that he is filming a dead bird.

“Why are you filming a dead bird?” asks a young woman, disgusted.

His reply is simple: “Because it’s beautiful.”

Such is my impression of American Beauty, the most brilliant film to come to mainstream cinema in ages. The film
itself is about dark circumstances, uncomfortable situations, and incredible unhappiness, but the picture as a whole is, simply put, beautiful.
The scene is one familiar to all of us: picket fences, rose gardens, people on their daily jogs. It reminds
me of movies like Blue Velvet, Happiness, Pleasantville, Edward Scissorhands, and The Truman Show. It also reminds me a lot
of the town of Davidson, which is of course the point: a place that seems sterile, happy, and wonderful, but
has its share of unsavory problems.

So we get a closer look at this ideal suburb. Our narrator, Lester Burnham (Kevin Spacey), informs us that he
will be dead in less than a year, his daughter hates him, his wife is unhappy, and that he starts
the day by masturbating in the shower. Lester and his realtor wife (Annette Bening, in an Oscar-caliber role) go to
the high school of their daughter Jane to watch her cheerlead at a basketball game, and Lester gets a glimpse
of Jane’s friend Angela (American Pie's Mena Suvari). He fantasizes about her, and in a breathtaking sequence imagines himself alone
with her as rose petals flow like snow from her naked body. He develops an instant and very embarrassing attraction
to her. He stares at her like a schoolboy, while his embarrassed daughter looks at him in absolute horror.

Next door to the Burnhams, a seemingly normal family moves in—the Fitts. Sure, the son is always looking at things
through a video camera, the mother stares at nothing all day, and the father is homophobic, but they look normal
enough. That is until Lester meets up with one of the waiters at a function for local Realtors. The waiter
is the Fitts’ son next door, Ricky (Wes Bentley). “Do you party?” Ricky asks, and before you know it, they
are outside smoking a joint. Ricky quits his job as a waiter right there, and Lester is spellbound. These two
chance encounters with his daughter's best friend and the boy next door cause him to completely change his life. He
starts lifting weights, and he quits his job. He also begins admitting to himself that his life is terrible, and
he starts being completely honest with his wife and daughter. In one great scene, he and his wife begin necking
on the couch, but she stops him because he almost spills beer on the $4000 couch. “Why are you so
joyless?” he asks her, “This isn't life!” He is finally in control of his life, and he is happy.

To give away any more of the plot would be a crime. The movie has so many unpredictable, yet totally
believable moments. The first-time film director, British theater director Sam Mendes, delivers a product that fills every frame with a
new sight to cherish. He truly knows how to use his camera and his actors. Not one line in the
film made me roll my eyes in disgust or laugh at the acting. All of the acting is superior; in
fact, most notably Spacey, Bening, Suvari, and Bentley. Wes Bentley, who has only made a brief appearance in one movie,
has a true gift. One monologue, in which he describes and shows us what he considers to be the most
beautiful thing he has ever filmed, is delivered with such intensity and emotion that the viewer totally agrees with his
opinion for that moment.

AMERICAN BEAUTY
Arts & LIVING

American Beauty makes the grade

But the brilliance of this film must be attributed to first-time screenwriter Alan Ball. Every line hits the right note,
every action is perfectly placed. This year has been abysmal...As far as movies go, with the exception of The Blair
Witch Project, Tarzan, The Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes, and Star Wars, 1999's movies have been near the quality of
drivel like Wild Wild West — one of the worst mainstream films made in ages — the exact opposite of
American Beauty. American Beauty is the clear front-runner in terms of Oscars. As of now, it looks to be a
sweep. It could easily win Picture, Director, Screenplay, Actor, and Actress. It is very dark and doesn’t pretend to have
all of the answers to the problems “normal” Americans face day to day, but it should appeal to almost anyone
over 17 years old. It’s entertaining enough for the MTV crowd and smart enough for the Independent Film crowd. It’s
a rare gem of a movie, and it solidifies DreamWorks as a quality film production company. Every shot, line, movement,
and frame is sheer perfection. Grade: A+ (I don't give those very often, by the way.)

By Katie Wilson
Staff Writer

Everyone remembers when the band Everything had its hit single “Hooch” a few years ago. This lighthearted, sing-along-with-me piece is
representative of Everything’s style, but Davidson students who came to the Fall Festival know there is much variation within that
style. The song “Hooch” and many others could be heard last Saturday from six to eight when Everything played in
front of the BSC. Everything was part of the First Night Down festivities. Rounding the corner of the Vail Commons
on Saturday night, students could be seen sprawled on the grass, eating at the picnic tables, relaxing, and having a
good time at a typical collegiate event. Some students never made it down the hill to see or hear the
band more clearly, while some students took the opportunity to play a little Ultimate Frisbee on the lawn. So passive
listening was not the only focus of this concert, but Everything's music lent itself to the occasion.

Everything's sound is created by five musicians, primarily on drums, guitar, bass, either alto or tenor sax, and vocals. A
sound engineer adds the necessary digital details. Some of their work sounded like popular, Dave-influenced songs, but other pieces highlighted
the saxophones and sounded more like punk/ska. This band has obviously been inspired by a number of different sources. Demonstrating
their diversity in style, Everything has four albums out. Few people recognize their productivity. Their first record, “Solid,” dates back
to 1993 and was recorded two years after the band’s formation. Their other albums are “Labrador,” “Everything (Live),” and the
more familiar “Supernatural,” with the hit single “Hooch.” “Supernatural” is unique because it was recorded in a deserted mansion in
northern Virginia, giving an entirely individual feel to the music. The lead singer, Craig Honeycutt, informed the audience that Everything
looked forward to recording another album soon. The band even tried out the new material in Saturday’s concert.

Everything also used some of their old favorites, like fast, energetic “All’s Quiet,” and happy-go-lucky “Ladybug,” which focused on the
guitar. Similar to “Hooch,” a common theme in Everything's work is praise of a girlfriend/love interest, as in “The Real”
or “The Good Thing.” This happy subject is sometimes offset by the pessimism evident in “All's Quiet” and “Spent,” and
both ideas seem to be evident in “The Everyday Syndrome.” The tone of Saturday's performance was set by Honeycutt's rapport
with the audience. He used the microphone basically to have a conversation with everyone watching, applauding the girls making the
lawn into a dance floor, reminding us that we should keep the band entertained in a surprising role reversal. The
comfortable cheerfulness of the evening continued with Everything's impromptu “Happy Birthday” to Jennifer Howard, a Davidson senior. In general, the
combination of pleasant weather, good friends, good food, and good music made for an enjoyable Fall Festival.

JOURNEY TO NICARAGUA
Spring Break 2000
Davidson United Methodist Church & The Office of the Chaplain invite you to the Information Session and Distribution of Applications
Tuesday, October 5
10:00 pm
Home Room of the Union

Questions, contact:
Rev. Andy Baxter
892-8277, ext. 224
andy.baxter@juno.com

Rev. Rob Spach
892-2420
rospach@davidson.edu

Michelle Markey
896-6648
mumarkey@davidson.edu
