THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

The Wildcats recently returned from a four-game road trip in which they captured three victories, including a win at Georgia
Southern almost two weeks ago and two decisive victories early last week over VMI and The Citadel.

The ’Cats easily defeated The Citadel 5-1 on Tuesday, Oct. 6 in Charleston, in an intensely physical match that featured
one red card and seven yellow cards. Sophomore Chris Norbet, who was involved in four of Davidson’s five goals, scoring
two of them and assisting on two others, opened the scoring in the 8th minute by finishing a cross from
fellow sophomore Derek Kilburn. Senior Andrew Holbrook, assisted by Norbet, continued the scoring thirty seconds later with a goal. Sophomore
Paul Watson and Norbet combined for Davidson’s third goal just minutes into the second period. Watson, assisted by Norbet, increased
the ’Cats lead to three, and while the Cadets managed to notch a score in the 61st minute, Davidson never
opened the door for a comeback. With an assist by junior Dane Erickson, Norbet struck again in the 64th minute,
capping off an impressive Davidson attack that began with several one-touch passes in the back. John Tetirick netted his first
goal of the season off a Holbrook assist and finished the scoring for the ’Cats with his goal in the
81st minute.

The following Saturday, Davidson carried their momentum and offensive firepower to Lexington, Va. where they handily defeated VMI 3-1. While
it was not as lopsided as the 5-1 rout of The Citadel, the decisive victory was crucial to their Southern
Conference standing. Andrew Holbrook, whose combined performances against The Citadel and VMI earned him Southern Conference Player of the Week
honors, opened the scoring for the ’Cats with an unassisted goal in the 15th minute. VMI soon answered with a
goal of their own in the 25th minute. Tensions mounted throughout the rest of the match as Davidson maintained the
score but struggled to find the net. Finally, sophomore Jeremy Kilburn, assisted by Jon Tetirick, broke the deadlock with a
late goal.

SPORTS

Men’s soccer strings together three road victories

Anna Judy

Men’s soccer returns to Richardson Stadium

By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

Last Friday night, some fireworks from sophomore Derek Kilburn opened the Davidson men’s soccer team’s first game in the renovated
Richardson Stadium. Just two minutes into the conference battle between Davidson and Appalachian State, Kilburn received the ball on the
left flank, beat his defender with a dangerous horizontal run, and then tallied his first goal of the season by
hitting a 25-yard blinder to the upper left corner. Kilburn, an outside midfielder whose intensity always provides a spark for
the ’Cats, celebrated by shouting, “Did you see that? Did you see that?”

The ’Cats struck again late in the game when senior Lawrence Cann netted his second goal of the season. In
the 76th minute, Cann punished an Appalachian State goalkeeper for conceding a rebound off a Jon Tetirick shot by coolly
putting the ball into the net. The game was now out of reach for the Mountaineers.

“It was a very economical win for us,” a pleased Coach Slagle commented. “We were able to put the ball
on their end for most of the match, and were able to capitalize twice with a lot of great opportunities.”

Though the ’Cats opened the game with inspired play, after the first ten minutes the game settled into a seesaw
battle. Nevertheless, Davidson’s strong defense, which helped ’Cats goalie Soren Johnson earn his fourth shutout of the year, prevented the
Mountaineers from recording a shot until the 66th minute of play. Freshman defender Jamie DeGraw, making his first start for
a squad that lacked both Pat Miller and John Martin, surprised the ’Cats defense with his aggressiveness and athleticism.

Many Wildcats faced the App State game as their biggest challenge of the ’99 season to date, as winning meant
a possible 2nd or 3rd place seed in the conference tournament, and losing could have resulted in a disappointing 5th
or 6th spot. While the win evened Davidson’s and ASU’s conference records at 3-3, the ’Cats now have the advantage
as Friday night’s win will be the tie-breaker if the two teams finished the season equal in Southern Conference wins.

“We felt really good about our performance,” commented sophomore Jon Tetirick. “We knew we had to beat App to get
a top conference spot, and we came through under the pressure.”

The victory over Appalachian gave the ’Cats (7-7, 4-2 SoCon) their fourth win in five games and answered critics who
had suggested Davidson’s early success was a fluke. The team now heads into their Oct. 17 home game against North
Carolina with renewed confidence.70:00 mark. Hart Roper finished the game just three minutes later, scoring Davidson’s third and final goal.
To close out their road trip, the ‘Cats next battled Liberty University, which outscored Davidson 2-1 in the second period
following a scoreless first half for both teams and handed the Wildcats their first loss of the road trip. Despite
Liberty’s shot advantage in the first half, ‘Cats keeper Soren Johnson’s stellar play in the driving rain kept the Flames
off the board. The Wildcats first got on the board early in the second half when a foul on Norbet
created a penalty kick opportunity for junior Dane Erickson. Erickson, “cool as the other side of the pillow,” finished the
kick, giving the ’Cats their first and only goal. On the heels of a debilitating red card issued to Pat
Miller in the 50th minute, Liberty fought back to earn a penalty kick of their own in the 59th minute.
With a one-man advantage and the game’s momentum in their favor, Liberty notched their second goal in the closing minutes
of the match, which was enough to send the ‘Cats packing despite a late-game surge. The Liberty defeat put a
damper on the team’s return home, but the non-conference loss was only a minor setback. The most important thing to
come of the road trip was the unshakable confidence that came with winning three straight conference games on the road.
“We did what we hadn’t been doing all season; that is, we scored a bunch of goals on teams that
we were a bunch of goals better than,” said sophomore John Martin, summarizing the value of the road wins.

Field hockey goes 1-2 on California trip
By SHELLEY Conroy
Staff Writer

The afternoon of October 8 marked the start of long-awaited Fall Break, but while most Davidson students left campus to
get away for the weekend, few traveled as far as the ‘Cats field hockey team. This year the women took
a trip to the West Coast to play three schools in California. The ‘Cats lost a challenging trip opener 7-1
to the University of California at Berkeley. “Our team just didn’t play together,” explained senior captain Kim Ceci who scored
the lone Davidson goal with assists from fellow senior Lisa Holthaus and junior Ashley Hart. The UCB Bears played aggressively
the entire game, tallying a total of 29 shots. The ‘Cats senior goalie Nancy Livingston made 10 saves in the
first half but allowed five goals. Sophomore Amanda Mordavsky allowed only two goals and finished the game with three saves.

The next afternoon, the ‘Cats took on the University of the Pacific Tigers but lost 2-1 in an intense game
that stretched into overtime. Freshman Alex Rogers netted the ‘Cats first goal early in the period, giving Davidson a 1-0
lead at the half. With 8:08 remaining in the game, University of the Pacific senior Brenda Boyle scored on an
assist from freshman teammate Julie Fomenko. Regulation time ended in a 1-1 tie, and the game moved into sudden death
overtime. With 2:21 left in the first overtime period, Pacific senior Aimee Tomasso scored on a breakaway. “We played well.
It was a good game for us,” said Ceci. Even though the ‘Cats did put up an impressive 16 shots
on goal, they couldn’t come up with the shots when they needed them most. “We were outplayed mentally,” commented Coach
Halliday. “There was a poor call in overtime that took back a goal we scored, but we had already missed
opportunities in regulation time.”

The ‘Cats recovered and completed their West Coast trip Sunday, Oct. 10 with a 2-1 victory over Stanford. Stanford’s first
score came only 98 seconds into the game, but the ‘Cats answered quickly with goals by Holthaus, assisted by native
Californian Lea Jaeger, and freshman Alex Rogers. “It was a phenomenal win for us. Our team played very strongly,” said
Halliday. The ‘Cats did not make a single shot on goal in the second half and were out-shot 20-7 for
the game, yet managed to steal away with a win, due in large part to their outstanding defensive effort and
Livingston’s 12 saves. “We moved to the ball quickly and we anticipated well. The team really pulled together and that’s
why we won,” Ceci said after the game. Halliday feels that the trip to the West Coast was the best
trip the team has taken since she’s been at Davidson. “It was a fabulous trip. We were really blessed with
our travels, the weather, and our attitudes. At all of our games, we had more fans than our opposing team.
It was all very picturesque.”

The ‘Cats return to action Oct. 23 when they travel to Duke University for their seventh consecutive road game.

Mike Anderson
