8 _THE DAVIDSONIAN_

IdnEgo — Relationship advice for friends and family, foes and lovers

AskIDNEGo@Hotmail.Com

IdnEgo are Freud’s psychoanalytic voices that influence all relationship decisions. Id, who represents the unconscious and licentiousness in all of us, rarely agrees with Ego, who touts the conscious and morally-aware course of action. Tune in each week to hear them face off against each other as they analyze your relationship and provide counsel.

Want to hear what IdnEgo have to say about your relationship dilemma? Or have any comments about their advice? Send your questions and thoughts to: AskIdnEgo@hotmail.com. All inquiries will be kept confidential.

(Please note: All advice offered in this column is purely for entertainment purposes and should not be considered professional clinical advice.)

Dear IdnEgo,

I can’t believe that I’m actually writing into this column, but you were the first one I thought of when I began having this problem. What do I have to lose? You see, I am fighting an inner battle within myself: I believe that I have feelings for someone significantly older than I, and I immaturely sent this person an anonymous gift as a way of showing my affection. Should I come clean and let this person know everything that I would like to do to them (sic) behind closed doors, or should I remain silent, in fear of ridicule?

Signed,
Anonymous

Dear “Anonymous,”

OK, you've gotten in the game by sending the mystery gift. Nice move, but a little too conservative for Id. Now, just get on with it—it’s time to expose yourself (if you know what I mean). This person probably can’t wait to find out who sent the gift — enough already building up the anticipation. Foreplay is over—putt through. Behind the door, in front of the door, on top of the door, underneath the door—just don’t keep staring at the door. Go through it.

Id only has one warning. Do NOT go through the door if this person is married (especially if the last name ends in a vowel). Listen to Id on this one — Id once had to move halfway across the country and take the alias Ed for six months. Those few good memories — ok, GREAT memories — just weren't worth the form-fitting cement shoes.

In your best interest,
Id

Dear “Anonymous,”

Forget anonymity! It’s time to put your ego on the line. Look, what’s the worst that’s going to happen if you “come clean?” Rejection? Let’s be honest here — rejection is not that bad. On the other hand, the best thing that could happen is that the two of you will get together and live happily ever after (cue the sunset and the music). There are, of course, a whole range of other possibilities between these two scenarios. The point is — by remaining silent, you'll never know what could have happened with this other person.

(Before you come clean, though, you might want to ask yourself a few questions: Does this person know you exist? Is this person married? Does this person have a significant other? Ego agrees with Id on this one—it’s not a good idea to pursue this if this person is married, vowel or no vowel.) Otherwise, Ego says go for it! Be bold: Take a risk. You'll never know if you don't.

Your friend,
Ego

Note to our readers: Since we appear weekly, we apologize if we have been unable to publish yourquestion. We can only choose one a week so make ‘em good! Thanks!

Belafonte coming to Charlotte

Press RELEASE

Charlotte: Harry Belafonte is the “consummate entertainer”—concert singer, recording artist, movie actor, Broadway and television star, and producer. Harry Belafonte commands the stage in his fifth decade as an entertainer and will appear at the Belk Theater of the North Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center on Tuesday, November 2 at 7:30 pm. With his famous “Day-O” (Banana Boat Song), Belafonte combines his love for Afro-Caribbean music and his joy of performing into a show-stopping concert that mesmerizes audiences. Belafonte gives audiences a mix of new and old songs presented by musicians who come from diverse backgrounds. His joy in performing turns every concert into a party, and audiences around the world continue to be wowed by this crowd-pleasing craftsman.

Harry Belafonte’s television special “An Evening With Harry Belafonte and Friends” is currently broadcast throughout the United States on the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). Other current projects include serving as Executive Producer with Jon Avnet and Taylor Branch for an ABC-TV miniseries (to air in 2000) based on Branch’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, Parting the Waters, and its sequel, Pillar of Fire.

Tickets for Harry Belafonte range from $20 - $50 and may be purchased at the Performing Arts Center Box Office on the second floor of Founders Hall in the Bank of America Corporate Center, or by calling: (704) 372-1000. Discounts are also available for groups of 20 or more by calling: (704) 357-4722.

The Soda Shop
Since 1951
Breakfast
Omelets
Pancakes
Burritos
Classic Burgers
Fries
Milkshakes
Eat-in
Take-out

Arts & LIVING
Crossword
HALLOWEEN
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1999
By Trey Davis

Halloween

Across
1. Iraqi missiles
6. It makes Integras
11. 1B or OF, in baseball
14. Kate’s TV partner
15. Meteor
16. ACC school
17. Popular Halloween song
19. Foot wipe
20. Jacuzzi
21. The Giving
22. Gas level
24. Oculus
25. Nickname
27. Beepers
30. African hunt
31. Distinguishing character
32. Erickson and Garrett
33. Where Gretzky played
36. Crazy person
37. Viruses
38. Foil
39. Band
40. Bullpen stat
41. Egyptian city
42. Central statements
44. Bed toppers
45. Put a new heel on a shoe
47. Gin
48. Lauder
49. Circus animal
50. M-Q connection
54. Popular Halloween party
58. Poetic above
59. Goodbyes
60. Kind of airwaves
61. Clever
62. Astonishes
63. Get up
53. “You Ain’t Seen Nothin’ Yet” group

Down
1. Wal-mart warehouse
2. Clip’s partner
3. Arm bone
4. Prefix for like or band
5. Irish dogs?
6. Farm measurements
7. “Go With Me”
8. Actress Thurman
9. Place to live (abbr.)
10. Greek goddesses
11. Popular Halloween food
12. Egg-shaped
13. Half-man, half-goat
18. Sea birds
23. Russian satellite
24. Explorer Ponce de _
25. Cleaning people
26. Kills
27. Fur
28. Molecule part
29. Popular Halloween tale
30. Tennis player Monica
31. Adored
32. “Mein ”
33. Durocher and Tolstoy
34. Word with head or book
35. Shingle
36. Chooses
37. Ice chests
38. Garden tool
39. Kind of chowder
40. Curtsy again
41. Chemical compound
42. Children’s doctor?
43. Cardinal Musial
44. Spanish nothing
45. Actor Ken
46. Trudge
47. Horse tidbit
48. Ex-Beatle Sutcliffe
49. Go to the plate

Seen any good shows lately? Seen any bad ones? Write movie/concert/album reviews for The Davidsonian. Who knows, could be fun. Call Seth Davis @ x6582.