2 __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring Convocation
award recipients

General Awards

The Davidson Black Alumni Network Award: Carla A. Bullock ’02 and Allen E. Lee ’01

The Leona M. Goodell Memorial Award: Leslie Ann Carbone ’00 and Sarah Elizabeth Cottrell ’01

The Rawkley P. Turner Drama Award: Jennifer Lee Carlyle ’01 and Edward Clifford Ellington ’01

The James Baker Woods III Award: Dan Cantey, Jr. ’99

The Dean Rusk Program Award: Toh Hean Ch’ng ’99 and Jennifer L. Klotz ’99

The C. Shaw Smith Award: Thirza C. Sayers ’99

The Charles Malone Richards Award: Elizabeth Ann Clasen ’00

The Agnes Sentelle Brown Award: Emily Ann Katzfey ’99

The George Gladstone Memorial Award: Britta K. Toleman ’00

Athletic Awards

The Tommy Peters Award: Ali Ton ’99

The Rebecca E. Stimson Award: Jamie Alison Brown ’99

Academic Awards

The Sandy Black Memorial Award: Robert Andrew Magnussen ’00

The Bremer German Language Award: Michael C. Wellmon ’99

The William Scott Bryant Memorial Award: Erin Smith ’01 and Julia L. Summersgill ’00

The Tom Daggy Biology Award: Toh Hean Ch’ng ’99

The Alberta Smith DeVane Award: Elisabeth Jane Malphurs ’99

The W.E.B. DuBois Award: Thomas W. Ross ’99

The Henry T. Lilly Award for Excellence in English: Vic Brand ’99, Cintra Pollack ’99, and Emily E. Setina ’99

Le Prix de Français (the French Award): Nevenka Addo ’99 and Jasmina Radeva ’99

The William B. Hight, Jr. Teaching Award: Emily A. Katzfey ’99 and Jennifer A. Kazmarek ’99

The Mundo Hispanico (the Spanish Award): Loraine E. Cook ’99 and Agatha Degasperi ’99

The Douglas Houchens Studio Art Award: Christopher Thomas Rackley ’00

The David Halbert Howard, Jr. Chemistry Award: Robert Andrew Magnussen ’00

The Max Jackson Award in Art History: Laura Jane Morriss ’00

The Kendrick Kelley Award in History: Michael Edward Daly ’99

The William G. McGavock Mathematics Award: Jennifer A. Kazmarek ’99

The A.K. Phifer Award in Economics: Benjamin Joseph Brown ’00

The W. Kendrick Pritchett Award in Classics: John Francis Paulas ’99

The J. Harris Proctor Award in Political Science: Lindsay M. Traylor ’99

The Richard Ross Memorial Music Award: Aaron P. Lesher ’99

The Theatre Award: Tory Talbot ’99

The Porter Vinson Chemistry Award: Amelia A. Fuller ’01

The William Vinson Mathematics Award: Samuel M. Steinmann

The Daniel Blain Woods Award: Sandra J. Bishop ’00

The William Gatewood Workman Psychology Award: Elizabeth G. Davis ’99 and Andy Preston ’99

TUESDAY, APR

Giduz photo, c/o College Communications

Catherine Turner got her handle on some bubble stuff at last week’s Service Dinner

Doughnut sales support
Statesville women’s shelter

By Mike SCHAEFER
Guest Writer

My Sister’s House is a battered women’s shelter located in Statesville. For 17 years, the shelter has provided services for injured women, ranging from legal advice to setting up housing. As their pamphlets state, “our hope is that we will be able to make a difference in the lives of those living the horror of abuse, and help empower them to break the cycle of violence.”

Unfortunately, this goal is becoming increasingly more difficult. The facility is located in a 75-year-old church that has no air-conditioning and limited heat. The church is also located in an area of high crime. Currently, the shelter is raising funds to construct a new building on a different site.

The need of My Sister’s House has attracted the attention of the brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha. As a result, the brothers planned a community service project throughout the third week in March. The project entailed a week-long doughnut sale with all proceeds being donated to My Sister’s House.

All of the Pika brothers were involved in the project. Nearly 150 dozen doughnuts were sold, raising $156. “I think the project was instrumental in proving to everyone, especially ourselves, that anybody can have a positive influence on the community... even fraternities,” Pika President Matt Jung ’00 said.

Pika also brought the needs of the shelter to the attention of Ben and Jerry’s. The ice cream store decided to give all proceeds from their Free Cone Day to My Sister’s House. In addition, they are also donating all tips received during the month of April.

Even in light of these efforts, the shelter still has its needs. As a result, members of Pika are currently soliciting local businesses for donations. In addition, the brothers are planning a mid-May trip to My Sister’s House in order to assist in its day-to-day operations and to see how the donations have helped them.

OXFORD

Live with British students in the very center of Oxford as an Associate Student of a medieval Oxford college.

Summer and graduate study available. Since 1985, students from 240 leading U.S. colleges have studied in Oxford through WISC.

Washington International Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. (Suite 370)
Washington, D.C. 20002
Phone Number: (202) 547-3275
Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC
Facsimile: (202) 547-1470
E-mail: wisc@erols.com

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

News Editors
CARRIE ARTAU
ASHLEY EDER

Circulation Manager
ELISSA ANN GIDUZ

Photo Editor
JUDY A. HOWARD

Cartoonist
NATHANIEL LOTZE

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOM

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.