THE DAVIDSONIAN

PCC service retreat establishes semester goals

By Ashley E. King
News Editor

On Sunday, January 24th, the Patterson Court service representatives met at 2:00 pm in the Wilson room of the Union
to discuss their plans for the 1999 Spring semester. Each house on the Court had at least one representative, and
directing the proceedings were Christine Larned ‘01, the Service Coordinator for Patterson Court, and Bill Abrams, the Community Service Coordinator.
The meeting was part of a larger series of PCC retreats which were taking place in the College Union from
12:30 until 4:00 in the afternoon.

As some of the service representatives were attending their first PCC meeting, the afternoon began with some brief introductions. The
representatives then completed a survey which evaluated the role of service on Patterson Court. In examining their respective houses, representatives
rated not only their members’ involvement and enthusiasm but also their members' knowledge of the different opportunities available.

Competitive Continued from page 1

The selection committee makes its decisions on which applicants to hire. Fifteen current RAs and HCs assist with the interview
process. Next year, RLO hopes to require all RAs and HCs to help interview applicants. Residence Life Director Kurt Holmes
sees the interviews as a “chance to pull seasoned staff members into the decision process.” Decisions concerning the placement of
the hired applicants are based on the strengths and weaknesses of the individual candidates, as well as the specific needs
of the different residential buildings.

After sharing the results of the survey, the meeting proceeded into a discussion. Abrams first asked the representatives to describe
the attitudes of those in their house toward service. Some described their houses as being “excited” to be involved in
service, while others expressed concern about the effects of limited time and opportunities on the enthusiasm of those in their
house. Most representatives agreed that although students are reluctant to make a commitment to service, they usually enjoy themselves once
they have become involved.

Working towards establishing their goals for the semester, the representatives then discussed different obstacles that might prevent their house from
participating in service events, and they also explored several solutions. Most representatives agreed that establishing programs that are scheduled at
a consistent time each week would help induce more students to become involved. They also agreed that persistence on the
part of the service representatives would increase the number of students who participate in service.

To educate the representatives about major service projects that are available, three speakers from different service organizations presented some important
events that they would be sponsoring. First, Liddy Davis spoke about Relay for Life, a fundraising cancer awareness event. Occurring
from Friday, April 16 until the following Saturday, the event involves teams of ten to fifteen people. Although the entire
team is not required to stay the whole time, each team is supposed to have at least one member walking
or running around the track at Richardson field for the duration of the twenty-four-hour event. Each team is also responsible
for raising a minimum of one hundred dollars. Proceeds from the event will benefit the American Cancer Society fund for
cancer research and development.

The next speaker was Randall Hitt from the Relatives, a nonprofit organization in Charlotte which provides youth from the ages
of seven to seventeen with a place to stay. Highlighting a program called “Hoop It Up,” Hitt hoped to encourage
Davidson students to contribute in various ways. Taking place on March 20th and 21st, “Hoop It Up” is a three-on-three
basketball tournament involving famous players from the NBA. This year the Relatives hope to attract 200 volunteers to staff the
event, and they hope to raise at least $10,000. Students may also volunteer at the runaway crisis shelter if they
are interested in working more closely with children.

Finally, Randy Mardus ‘99, the student representative for Habitat for Humanity, presented the opportunity to become involved in Habitat through
Davidson. He said that large groups usually volunteer on Saturday mornings, but he emphasized that students are welcome to volunteer
at any time.

When asked what they had been trying to accomplish at the meeting, Larned said that it was “an opportunity to
ascertain the direction of service this semester.” She continued by saying, “Also, it’s kind of a forum on finding out
what’s available.” Anyone interested in becoming more involved in service this semester can contact Christine Larned at 896-6200 or Bill
Abrams at 896-2460.

RLO application process underway

Certain students serve as RAs for two years in a row, and some positions are only open toreturning staff members.
This year, three seniors served as Resident Directors (RDs), but next year this position will be completely phased out. Only
Area Coordinators will continue to be used. Area Coordinators are professional adults with a master’s degree in higher education, counseling,
and student personnel or a related field, and they will be stationed throughout the campus. These professional staff members have
extensive experience in residence and student life. “The RD position was just getting to be too big a responsibility for
students to handle,” Kauffman commented. “We can’t just say to the RDs, ‘Don’t go to class today, deal with roommate
conflicts instead’.” Interest in the RD position has also steadily declined because students complain of too great a workload to
manage such an additional responsibility, and many dislike the notion of directly supervising their peers. “We thought it would be
a good time to make the switch to full-time staff only,” Kauffman said.

Next year, four Head RA positions will be held by students wishing to “assume a leadership role among the student
staff,” Holmes said. They will work closely with the Area Coordinators, and will each be assigned to a residential zone
on campus, such as Martin Court or the Belk and Richardson Dorms.

PCC Minutes

PCC Meeting Minutes for January 24, 1999.
Union Conference Room

I. Attendance

II. Announcements by the PCC President Megan O’Brien
* Meeting time was set to be every Sunday night at 9 pm.
* No meeting next Sunday
* Jim Barber’s announcements:
1) Brought up the chance for houses to switch insurance over to Davidson College’s insurance of United Health Care Plan.
The cooks for each house need to decide whether to keep their old coverage or switch over to United. Jim
asked all presidents to talk to their houses and their cooks in the next two days. He gave out the
comparison data between United coverage and Blue Cross/Blue Shield. By Wednesday of this week, each house must contact Jim with
their house’s decision whether to stay with their old plan or move over to United. All houses who want to
switch to United must do so at the same time. Please contact Jim with any questions and your decision by
Wednesday.
2) Jim handed out the new apartment forms to the presidents of each house that has apartments. The deadline for
these forms is March 25, but Jim asked the presidents to start early. He needs two definite people and two
alternates for each apartment. The alternates will fill in if something happens to the others.
3) Eating House presidents need to give the list of directors to Bart Landess as soon as possible.
4) Two regional conferences are coming up and Jim would like to know who would be willing to attend. SEIFC
is for fraternity members, presidents, and representatives. This conference is in Atlanta from February 18-21. Jim Barber will be accompanying
the Davidson representatives. This will not involve a cost except for activities outside of the conference. Everything else will be
included. Please contact Jim Barber if you want to attend. SEPC is for the women of Patterson Court. This conference
is from March 25-28 and all costs are taken care of. This conference is mostly for sororities from the Southeast
but the programs are geared towards leadership and women’s issues. Dani Hiar will be taking the Davidson participants. This is
also in Atlanta. Please let Jim Barber know if you want to attend.

III. Elections
* Secretary. Nominations for Alfred Vichot, Phoebe Norton, and Laura Lothman. The new PCC Secretary is Phoebe Norton.
* Service Co-Chair. Christine Larned asked Jim how they should work this. He suggested that there be two overlapping service
chairs elected Spring 1999 and Fall 1999. Nominations for Desirae Haylock and Mike Wipfler. Desirae Haylock is the new Service
Co-Chair.
* Student Solicitors: Liz Reed, Dan Carman, and Kelly Byrd.

IV. Committees
* Megan O’Brien asked the PCC members to sign up for the 4 standing committees.
1) Finance Committee - chaired by Mauricio Sauma.
2) Service Committee - chaired by Christine Larned and Desirae Haylock.
3) Rules and Regulations Committee - chaired by Chad Phillips.
4) Publicity Committee - chaired by Phoebe Norton.

V. Judicial Board
* Scott Buchanan announced that there will be three J Board hearings Wednesday, January 27 at 8:00 pm in Phi
Hall for Warner Hall, Turner, and Kappa Alpha.

VI. Discussion
* Jim Barber handed out the New Member Series posters for members to put up on their halls and in
their houses.

David Vaughn ‘00 sprints past ruins of former bleachers at Richardson Field. These bleachers are being cleared for the much-anticipated
new track.
