THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

DAVID ROSENBERG

Girls retaliate in fight for co-educational equality

Warner Hall found sweet justice on Saturday night. Who would have thought that it would take 25 years for the tensions to mount to such a point? The bitter distinction between the quality and number of fraternity and eating house date functions has finally come to light. In an act of complete retaliation this weekend, Warner Hall spoke out against the gender inequity at Davidson College. They understood the notion of the true inequality in the numbers and decided this would be the night the women spoke out. They put the boys through brute torture.

Warner Hall scheduled their formal to overlap exactly with the Men’s NCAA Final Four—the most heavily worshipped day of any avid sports fan. While the girls ate peacefully and enjoyed quiet conversation with folded hands and camera-ready smiles, guys looked at each other helplessly with drooped eyelids and puppy dog eyes. Their leashes rested on the chair backs behind them, and an occasional lip stuck out as the guys fidgeted nervously with their eating utensils. The extended bathroom trip excuse to the hotel TV lounge began to lose its effectiveness when the Warner girls began keeping tabs on how much their dates really were drinking and figured out how far away the bathroom really was.

As the band played Young MC’s "Busta Move," guys pretended to sing along, yet offered slightly different lyrics to appease their nagging basketball intrigue. 

Bust it:
This is a cheer for all the fellas,
Try to do what those ladies tell us
Get shot down ‘cause you’re overzealous
Corey Maggette just dunked on two playaz
Ok smarty, go to a party
Duke is up in the second with another 5:40
A chick walks by, you wish you could sex her,
Mr. William Avery just another three-pointer.
Next day’s function - high-class luncheon
Elton Brand is on fire and we’re missing all his dunking.

While girls' formals may deserve slight criticism for their genius of good timing, boys deserve equal critique in their manner of asking. As girls take care in their selection of a friend or interest for a date, boys have an ego to protect and thus a defense barrier to maintain. If anyone finds themselves on a girls' hall a mere two days before any big semi-formal weekend, they might overhear the following nonchalant conversation:

“Umm, hey there’s this stupid formal coming up and I wasn’t really planning to go to the dumb thing, but I was just thinking earlier today that you might have fun if you went. And like I said before, it’s just this stupid formal, and I wasn’t even actually going to go, but if you want to go, I guess it would be fun. But it wouldn’t be a big deal or anything. So do you want to go?”

If a girl says yes, the guy’s ego inflates. If she says no, it remains intact. For it was just a stupid formal anyway. He remains free from embarrassment. But here we run into a few aspects of formals that might need attention. If a Davidson male plays his cards right, at the absolute maximum, he can find himself invited to almost 20 formals or semi-formals. Twenty free meals sit well in a guy's stomach, but not so well with a girl's pocketbook. Compare this with a mere 4-6 formals for girls, dependent on fraternity probation, etc. (recent sanction horniness of the administration most likely translates into at least one fraternity being on probation at the time of a semi-formal).

Also, as far as tuxed-up formals go, due to budget constraints, a percentage of Patterson Court does not even have one. Male participation in Patterson Court is less than that of females, this year with an astounding difference (75% for females in 1999 compared with 49% for males) so statistically speaking, more males get invited to functions. Not only are girls invited to fewer semi-formals, but with certain exceptions, the quality of an eating house party tends to be much higher and of a greater financial burden. Might it be more fair for girls if the fraternities spread their date functions out? Unfortunately, it is impossible to change a fixed date such as Homecoming and a synchronized event such as Spring Frolics, but shouldn’t the fairness of formals come into question at some point? Surely an all-day event such as Rusk’s “Destination Unknown” can’t be compared to dinner and a three-person band at a fraternity house.

Warner achieved sweet justice in scheduling their formal to coincide with the basketball game. For vengeance next year, if any fraternities do remain on the Court, they look to move Christmas Cocktails to a Thursday night at 10:00 pm Eastern Standard Time to coincide with ER and Midwinters to coincide with Party of Five reruns. Times might be changed depending on your local TV listings.

BLYTHE SANDERS

Wise words from the chief of the Davidsonian, when I stumbled upon Phil Reed’s ridiculous and incoherent article. Now, I am not aware of how many Native Americans other than...Now, I am not aware of how many Native Americans other than myself attend Davidson; however, judging from the 0% American Indian status listed in the 1999 U.S. News Best Colleges, there can’t be many more of us. Therefore, upon reading this piece I felt that either Mr. Reed assumed his article would go unnoticed, or there is some freshman who really has nothing better to do than write about something he is completely ignorant of.

First of all, I can’t imagine that Mr. Reed has had much of a taste of “North Carolina life,” or he perhaps would have known that the Erwin controversy has existed for at least four years. I am an Eastern and Western Band Cherokee Indian from the reservation in Cherokee, North Carolina. I feel that this allows me to discuss mascots such as the “squaw” because I have a reason to be offended. I can only hope that Mr. Reed is Native American and is justified in making such generalizations about our views. I would also like to see whatever survey he has conducted to determine the “truth” that “the majority of Native Americans do not find sports names troubling.”

In case you did not know, the term “squaw” actually does have a very derogatory meaning. The term was used as a slang and disgusting term for women’s genitalia. To put it bluntly, the English equivalent is the word “pussy.” Now, Phil, you may not find this a significant issue. I guess you just think that women should stop being hypersensitive and learn to deal with this kind of insult. Fortunately, not everyone is so ignorant. Erwin has decided to stop using the “squaw” mascot. I guess those girls didn’t want to be referred to as “vaginas” on the field. Imagine that.

I was just sitting around my apartment reading, Phil! And even after knowing the meaning of the term, the only reason they dropped the mascot was to avoid losing funds for the school, as well as to dodge federal court. As for mascots such as the Warriors, Chiefs, Seminoles, blah, blah, I do not take offense at them. But I also do not understand 1) how these mascots bring “honor and respect to the Native American” or 2) why non-Native Americans would want to be named Seminoles anyway. For me, these mascot names indicate a lack of originality and creativity. Also, most of the mascots are obnoxious and exaggerated symbols that do depict Native Americans in a ridiculous light.

Most American Indians do know that “such mascots do not intend to harm,” and most of us could care less about the stupid mascot. However, I feel you are completely out of line by judging the “squaw” controversy as “trivial” when, in fact, you really have no understanding of what it is truly about. And I think it was undeniably justifiable to change the name of the “squaws” because it is so explicitly sexist and inappropriate.

Please, Mr. Reed, you may find the strong feelings some Native Americans have about these names ridiculous, but nevertheless you should respect anyone who finds offense with something they may feel more strongly about than you, in your infinite wisdom, can understand. The issue is not whether it was “intended” for these mascots to be offensive; the fact is, they are to some American Indians. Get over it, change is good.

Some people even try to say that these mascots’ names have been used for years without disrespect, but clearly this argument is ludicrous. After all, getting away with doing something wrong in no way absolves you from being stupid. I can only hope that one day the world will be rid of those who would like to live in perpetual ignorance, rather than recognizing error and changing for the benefit of promoting unity, and improving relations among everyone.

Until then, Phil, you can always keep going to the Braves games and buying those tomahawks. Each time you do, as long as these teams use a mascot with Native American connotations, tribes across the U.S. receive a portion of the proceeds. For every ridiculous souvenir with exaggerated exploitations of our culture that is sold, we can at least make some money off of it, eh? So, you can continue to slap yourself in the mouth and dice the air in a salute to us.

Here is your take-home message, Phil, so read carefully. First of all, please try to refrain from mentioning cowboys immediately following Native Americans. This is a jaded counterexample that only reiterates a worthless dichotomy which doesn’t exist. Next, do not attempt to make judgments about a culture whose pride and communities you can’t understand. It is impossible for everyone to be happy. Some people are very sensitive, and some even spend their lives looking for something by which to be offended. It is lucky for us that we live in a place where free expression and understanding are supposed to be widespread. As you are beginning to be immersed in this liberal arts experience, try to open your mind. Never judge someone’s feelings too quickly, especially before you know the whole story. Finally, the next time you have so much time on your hands, use it demonstrating your creativity by supplying these misrepresented teams with original mascots they can truly be proud of.