What makes a place a home? For those of you that know me, you have probably heard me use the
phrase “geographically challenged” to describe myself. I realize that I cannot proceed with my topic until I explain what I
exactly mean by this phrase. We have all been asked where we are from during our time at Davidson. For
most people, the answer to this question is relatively simple: “Oh, I’m from (fill in your respective city/town).” Though for
some people, including myself, the answer to this question becomes more challenging than simply stating where you currently live. I
currently live in Orlando, Florida, but I can’t say that I am really from anywhere. While I was growing up,
my family moved around a lot—every three/four years to be exact. You might be asking if I come from a
military family (the answer to that being NO). My dad is what I like to call upwardly mobile with a
family in tow. Translated, that means that no sooner did I become accustomed to one area than I was uprooted
and on to the next location. Since I moved around so much, I don’t feel like any one location could
be considered a place that I come from. I was born in Houston, TX, but I can’t say that I
remember much from this area since I was barely two when I moved from there. From Houston, I moved to
the land of 10,000 Lakes (a.k.a. Minnesota, for those of you that aren’t up on your license plate facts). Within
MN, I lived in Minnetonka, Chanhassen, and Chaska. From this cold land of so many lakes, I moved to a
bedroom community of New York City—Darien, CT. After only three years, all of my belongings found themselves in the confines
of cardboard boxes again and on their way to the land of perpetual sunshine, or so they like to say,
in Florida. This moving around has given me the opportunity to see what different parts of the country are like
firsthand. Yet, at the same time, it has robbed me of the ability to say that I am from anywhere
in particular. When I look back on all of the moving that I did when I was growing up, I
can objectively say that I don’t regret not having a place that I can say that I come from. There
are pros and cons to either situation, namely staying in one location or moving around a lot. I know that
all of the moving around that I did when I was growing up made me appreciate my family that much
more. It would have been nice if I could say that I was from one place in particular, but alas,
I can’t do that. This brings me to my final point: What makes a place a home? In retrospect, it
was never the location that made a place a home, but it was my family that made each city or
town my home. So when somebody asks me where I am from, I say “all over” or “geographically challenged,” but
if someone asks where home is, that would be wherever my family was at that moment in time.

What’s news good for? Most of us Davidson students know exactly how secluded our college environment can be. Chances are
that if you’re an American citizen but have had no intimate acquaintance with the land known as “Dixie,” then you
will never have heard of Davidson College. Many U.S. News and World Report connoisseurs might have heard of us, although
as far as they’re concerned Davidson is just another one of those schools that’s perpetually tied with Washington and Lee
on that sacred annual list. Not only are we small and insignificant, but we can’t even escape ourselves without a
good half-hour drive down Interstate-77. And that’s only if Charlotte counts as a legitimate refuge. Maybe it does, who knows—the
next time you feel like going and staring at some banks, let me know—but for less than half the driving
distance and some local color, I'd rather hit Lancaster’s. Don’t cry for us quite yet, though. I’m afraid none of
this serves to excuse our own ignorance about the rest of the world. Tonight in the Davidsonian office, someone mentioned
that we were bombing Iraq again. “Really?” Couldn’t have proven it by me. Well, then again, she said, she wasn’t
totally sure about that. It shortly became clear that not a single one of us had any idea what was
going on in the world. Well, I did read “CLINTON ACQUITTED” somewhere recently, but otherwise my awareness of current events
leaves much to be desired. Why is this? A few postulates: 1.) Davidson keeps us too busy to even notice
that we’re missing evening newscasts or hourly radio updates. I might keep up with world events if I had time
to watch televisi—wait a minute. The clock says 12:37 a.m.—gotta run, it’s Conan time. Apparently, if the news were Tom
Brokaw with Andy Richter and the Max Weinberg 7, I'd be much more well-informed. 2.) I didn’t buy a Charlotte
Observer subscription. Why not? We know we can get all the news we can stomach off the internet for nothing,
and I didn’t need another “I get it every morning” t-shirt. But that doesn’t mean that we actually surf the
‘net for the latest headlines. In fact, I tried to do so this evening, and by force of habit, I
typed in www.cnnsi.com. That’s right, up-to-the-minute sports scores and headlines, 24 hours a day. Deep within the college student’s subconscious,
he knows what’s really important. 3.) The amount that the outside world knows about us is inversely proportional to what
we know about ourselves. This is not a necessary truth, but I believe it to be accurate. The smaller we
are,the more easily and thoroughly known we are to ourselves, and the less likely we are known at all to
those outside our sphere. Because of the size and nature of our institution, we may be forced into being so
wrapped up in our own microcosm that we lack either some sort of capacity or initiative to take interest in
world and national events. Then again, maybe there is no reason for our apathy apart from our generation’s innate laziness
and indifference. But what do I gain from knowing that this very moment’s CNN.com headline is “Diplomats push for peace
deal as fighting rages in Kosovo”? Good thing I’ve run out of room for this editorial — I’m sure my
question has an answer, but I’m not sure I have that answer at the moment.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999

LETTERS

More journalistic integrity, please

To the Editors:

As I approach the end of my senior year, my vision glazes over with a certain complacency for this place,
a sense that I have done what I can to make this a better community, and the issues I did
not tackle are now beyond my grasp. It is someone else’s turn to speak out, to fret and fluster. But
I cannot let the article written last week about me and Will Thompson, the new Union Board president, go without
comment. The article was wrong on a number of counts. I do not think the article was intended as slander,
but I do think it was sloppy reporting. For this reason, the Davidsonian disappoints me.

First off, the article contained blatantly wrong facts. I am NOT a recipient of the Watson Fellowship. Though I am
still a finalist, I have not won the Watson and will not know the outcome of my application for at
least three more weeks. There were other somewhat muddled facts, but not any so glaring that I care to elaborate.
Point being, you all as editors and writers ought to care to check your facts.

Second: CONTEXT on any quotation is vital. This is an important aspect of maintaining journalistic integrity because anything can be
recontextualized to say many things. For example, quoting me as saying I “certainly didn’t think 74% of African-Americans were dissatisfied
or ever dissatisfied with the Union” without first tacking on “Before reading the survey results” implies that I don’t trust
my own survey results. It makes me seem flippant and unsympathetic to the survey respondents, which is not the case.

Third: Writers cannot make up stuff one supposedly said because it seems convenient or true to who the writer thinks
the interviewees are. I never said that Gloria Steinem’s visit to Davidson in the fall was our school’s number one
event. The reason I did not say it is because I do not think it. While I found having such
a renowned feminist here to be exciting, I could think of half a dozen events that I preferred over her
visit. I asked Will Thompson, who was also present for my interview, if I had even intimated that Gloria was
my top pick. Turns out Will can’t remember me saying anything of the sort, so I have no clue where
Kells got the idea, other than that I am a feminist, so feminist + Union president = Gloria fan.

This is all meant to say to the Davidsonian staff: PLEASE check your facts. Make sure your context remains true
and sufficient. And an interview is not a time for asking the question, “What would happen if she said... and
doesn’t that seem like a more complete story?” If this article were an isolated incident, I would not have bothered
to remark on it. I fear, though, that far too many Davidsonian stories, purported to be news, are guilty of
the faults I mentioned. We do not have journalism classes at this school, but we cannot use that as an
excuse to say that we as reporters don’t know any better. Before I leave these hallowed halls, I hope this
publication follows up on the claim that it is “The South’s Foremost College Weekly.”

Cintra Pollack ‘99
Former Union Board President

1999-2000 tuition and fees announced

To Davidson Students and their parents:

As is their custom, the Davidson College Board of Trustees adopted its budget for next year at its winter meeting
on February 12, 1999. As a part of the deliberations, the Board approved the following schedule of tuition and fees:

Required Charges (Tuition, Laundry, & Activity Fees) $22,228
Room $3,352*
Meals $2,988**

TOTAL: $28,568

*Room rate based on double occupancy; rate higher for senior apartments.
**Applies only to those students taking the full meal plan with the College Dining Service; varies for all others.

The Board is mindful of the effect of increased costs upon our students and their families, and this 3.8% increase
in charges holds the rate of increase at the same percentage as last year, making it the lowest level increase
in 26 years. We will continue to take steps to control and curtail costs wherever possible.

As is always the case, the tuition and fees you are paying are being augmented substantially by generous gifts from
good friends of the College. Next year, more than 40% of the annual cost of each Davidson student’s education will
come from such generous benefactors, before counting financial aid. We shall continue to do all that we can to meet
the demonstrated financial needs of Davidson students, and we certainly stand ready to review the circumstances of any student adversely
affected by the projected changes for next year.

Many thanks for all that you do to support Davidson, both with your resources and your good will.

Best regards,

Robert F. Vagt
Alenda Lux
