THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999 3

Raising ‘The Monitor’

Story continued from front page

Its voyages were cut short when a storm sunk the ship off the coast of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina on December 31, 1862. Here it landed upside down to remain undisturbed until its discovery in 1973.

The wreckage of The Monitor was declared the nation’s first National Marine Sanctuary in 1975 so as to protect the site for research and ecological purposes.

The Monitor was the first ironclad battleship, dating back to January 30, 1862 and measuring 172 feet in length with a 42-foot beam. The ship has much historical significance, as it was the first to have a steam-driven propeller.

An excavation team set off on a 27-day expedition to protect the wreck and discover the possibility of raising sections of the ship, namely the engine room. Serving as the Diving Medical Officer on the voyage, Dr. Michael Ott was given the opportunity to combine his extensive background in SCUBA, consisting of over 70 courses and also a position as a diving instructor for seven years, with his profession.

Michael Ott attended Wake Forest Medical School on completion of his time at Davidson. Currently finishing his last year of residency at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida, Dr. Ott is going to specialize in Pulmonology and Diving Medicine. The dives on the trip would reach depths of 240 feet, therefore shortening the actual bottom time and increasing the amount of air consumed. Each dive could only be 25 minutes followed by two hours of decompression in a hyperbaric chamber before returning to the ship. The divers stopped every ten feet of their ascent to avoid air embolism and decompression illness, commonly titled “the bends,” by letting the rapidly expanding air escape from the divers' lungs rather than causing injury.

The mission is crucial because the components of the ship are quickly corroding due to the 137-year stint in the salt water of the Atlantic. The team plans to head back to their dive site 16 miles off the Outer Banks next summer to raise sections of the ship.

NEED EXPERIENCE?
Come Join Our Team At

LOGONATION!

We Need An Office Assistant In Our Mooresville Office
20 — 30 Hours A Week
At $8.00 Per Hour.
Call Jennifer Today!
799-0612

MAKE YOUR MARK ON CAMPUS!

Sororities, Fraternities, and Clubs at Davidson College

Can Find Their Group Supplies and Promotional Products In an Instant through

LOGONATION!
- Stadium Cups
- T-Shirts & Sweat Shirts
- Distressed printing
- Pens & Pencils
- Balloons
- Magnets

A Special Davidson College Discount

CALL TODAY!
799-0612

Save up to 40% on new textbooks.
Get them in 3 business days. Guaranteed.

*Books delivered in no more than three business days or your shipping is refunded. Some restrictions apply. See www.varsitybooks.com for details.

Your Online College Bookstore

VarsityBooks.com