18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 1999

Coach Hundley optimistic on Lady ’Cats ’99 prospects

By Burcin Harbin
Staff Writer

The 1999 Lady Wildcats and head coach Kevin Hundley know regaining the Southern Conference’s women’s soccer crown is a lofty goal. He also knows his team will be playing in one of the most competitive seasons ever in the Southern Conference. Yet he seems happy? “The players want the challenge and we accept it,” said Hundley, who will be joined on the sidelines this season by assistant coaches Heidi Slaymaker and Todd Herman.

Eager for the ’99 season is the stellar group of nine seniors who hold dear the memories of their freshman season in 1996 when they were crowned the Southern Conference champs. Since then, they have been thirsting for another jewel in their crown, but unfortunately, a 1997 semifinal loss is the closest they have come to a championship, and last year the team dropped to 7-13 overall.

The ‘Cats enter ’99 picked 4th in the Southern Conference pre-season coach’s poll, behind UNC-G, Furman, and Georgia Southern. And with a dominant group of seniors (the largest class he’s ever had), Hundley believes the ‘Cats have the pieces in place to get back on top. “The team showed a lot of heart and determination last year to overcome so many injuries,” said Hundley. “We have a strong nucleus returning this season, and with good health, I know that we are among the best in the conference.”

The Team

Team captain Amy Balsinger, a senior sweeper from Pittsburgh, PA, will return as one of the anchors of a solid, experienced defensive force. Senior Angie Boyer and junior Sarah Falconi will join Balsinger, who has not missed a start during her Davidson career, in the backfield. It is the fourth spot that remains a big question for Hundley and the ‘Cats. Senior Natalie Stumpf, who has had two seasons cut short because of torn ACLs, has decided to sit out this season, giving some underclassmen a chance to step up and see some playing time in the backfield. Sophomores Lucy Stroup and Laura Booher played well this past spring and will be part of the mix in the back. Also, promising freshmen Lauren Dennis and Meghan Ferriter may see some time in the backfield.

Senior co-captain Ginny Dye, a three-time all-conference performer and the tenth leading scorer in school history, will lead the ‘Cats offense. Dye is currently tenth all-time in the Southern Conference with 51 career points. Since her freshman season, she has scored 22 goals, and she led the team in scoring last season with seven goals and three assists for 17 points. Kelly Rennick, another senior co-captain who started 18 games as a back last year, will be called upon to be an offensive force this season as Hundley plans to move Rennick to a forward position. Expected to join Rennick and Dye on the offensive are sophomores Natalie Cox, who scored three goals in 19 games as a freshman, and Carryn Quibell, who saw action in 13 games last season.

Seniors Kate McKnight and Jennifer Scott return to the midfield, where the Wildcats have the most depth returning. McKnight and Scott have both been formidable forces for the last three seasons. Sophomores Carolyn Stumpf and Penn Graves will also be looking for playing time in midfield, as well as freshman Amy Johnston.

Senior Chesley Garrett and junior Winnie Corrigan return to their goalkeeping duties this season. Garrett and Corrigan each started 10 games last season and remarkably had very similar statistics. They each played around 900 minutes, with Corrigan recording 71 saves and Garrett notching 61 saves. Also, freshman Sarah Henry joins the goalkeeping ranks this season, adding depth to an already-experienced staff.

The Competition

This season promises some of the most intensely competitive action ever seen in the Southern Conference. UNC Greensboro, undefeated in league play for the last two years, is the league favorite even though Furman tied UNC-G in the SoCon’s preseason coaches poll with 5 first place votes. The Wildcats opened their season on the road on Saturday against Conference USA Champion UNC Charlotte. Playing in front of a record crowd at Charlotte’s Transamerica Field, Davidson met their match in the Lady 49ers, losing the season-opener 3-0.

The remainder of the ‘Cats non-conference schedule includes matches against three ACC teams (N.C. State, Clemson, and Duke) and two SEC teams (Georgia and South Carolina). Outside the region, Davidson faces Oregon, Brown, and Duquesne.

The Lady Wildcats begin conference play September 4 when they host Wofford in what Hundley says will be a “testing” home opener. Following the Wofford contest, the ‘Cats will play two more conference games before the end of September. “We've challenged this group with another strong schedule,” Coach Hundley commented. “This is a testing schedule that if we finish above .500, we will have had a good year. Our ultimate goals are to win the Southern Conference Championship.”and to earn the school’s first Division I NCAA women’s tournament bid. We plan to be ready to play at that level.”

Despite goals by Erickson, Holbrook, ’Cats come up short | Sports Information Department

We are glad to see everyone back after a great summer. Come in and give us a visit!

By Curtis BREITENBERG
Staff Writer

There is certainly a lot of anticipation amongst the players on the men’s soccer team this season. Coming off a disappointing 1998 season in which the team went 5-16—with only a mediocre mark of 4-4 against conference competition—the squad has a lot to prove this season. An important part of this year’s team success will be the play of the solid group of returning impact players from last season that are excited to improve upon last year’s record.

Although the team dropped their first exhibition match on Friday night against Winthrop, there were some bright moments during the game. Both Dane Erickson and Andrew Holbrook knocked home goals for the Wildcats, and the team played a very tight match before falling at the end by a goal, 2-3. Erickson and Holbrook will be key players this fall and they will be counted on to make their presence felt both on the attack and in the midfield. Last season Holbrook led the team with seven goals on his way to a 15-point season, and he will be needed to produce as the team’s leading attacker. Erickson, on the other hand, will be expected to help control pace and distribute the ball in the midfield as well as score and attack when necessary.

Other key elements to the team’s success this season will be goalkeeper play. Freshman Soren Johnson earned the starting spot during preseason, and he will be expected to shoulder the burden of being the team’s primary keeper. Coach Slagle, who is entering his 20th season of coaching soccer at Davidson, is excited about his young keeper. “He showed that he could handle himself during preseason and he will be playing behind an experienced defense,” which is comprised of returning players including Lawrence Cann and David Bueller. Cann led the defense last year and anchored the back end of the field performing at All-Conference levels. Bueller will contribute in many different facets of the game. He has proved his worth both as a commanding sweeper but also as an offensive midfielder. Last season he led the team in overall points with 16, putting in six goals and dishing out four assists. Captain Hart Roper will also be an extremely important part of the team this season, leading play through the midfield. As a leader both on and off the field, Roper has gained the respect of his peers and coaches and will be instrumental as the team pushes for a much-improved season.

Coach Slagle will certainly have his players prepared for the season this year as he brings in twenty years of coaching experience. He has been named the Southern Conference coach of the year six times and also won the Division I coach of the year award after guiding the Wildcats to a 17-win season and a semifinal finish in the Division I tournament. Slagle certainly does have the achievements of a great coach, but he remains focused on the task at hand knowing full well that the whole season lies in front of him.

The team’s outlook is certainly promising this fall and should be for years to come. Inexperience could be an issue because the team has many players who have yet to compete at the intercollegiate level. Slagle knows that his team does need to play well in a few different areas to turn a good season into a great one. “We have a few areas to focus on this year,” says Slagle, “we need one of the guys to step up and become a consistent scorer, we need to stop the counterattack and we need to be solid with our set plays.” Slagle is confident that his team can put together a fine season, “We're aiming for at least a top three finish in the conference and we hope to perform at the highest level we can.” The men’s soccer squad certainly has their work cut out for them, playing regularly against some of the best teams in the country, but if they can put the pieces together, a wonderful season could be the outcome.

Junior Dane Erickson will again be a big contributor to the ’Cats on the field. Erickson also serves as SGA vice president.