THE DAVIDSONIAN

Why do we push ourselves? Why do we stay up all hours of the night, develop caffeine addictions, insomnia, and
unhealthy Waffle House habits? Are these the necessary by-products of education or the manifestations of learned perfectionism? I heard DMB’s
"Ants Marching" yesterday on the radio and I wondered to myself, “Am I an ant?” Why do I march? What
am I marching toward? Am I blindly following, placidly obeying the will of society, my parents, or my own misguided
intentions? Can I ever march fast enough to reach the place I want to go, or do I only see
the ants I march beside?

I don’t have the answers to these questions, nor do I expect to find them any time soon. But I
know that I will do the very best I can right now in pursuit of excellence to the sense of
peace for which I am always reaching. “Am I an ant?” Why do I march? What am I marching toward?
Am I blindly following, placidly obeying the will of society, my parents, or my own misguided intentions? Because hindsight is
20/20, and my philosophy is to look back with no regrets. For me, this means doing an insane amount of
activities. Strangely enough, this self-imposed chaos brings me closer to that sense of peace. That doesn’t mean I think this
is the best or only way—it simply means it is what works for me right now. I'll do the best
I can and accept the grades that are never quite as high as I’d like.

I came to Davidson to be pushed, and what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, right? So when I finish
my work, or at least part of my work, I’ll go to the Lake Campus. I’ll call home and tell
my parents how much I’m learning even if my grades may not reflect the amount of time I have invested
in the class. I will trust in a plan larger than I am, and that in the long run what
I learn here will take me where I want to go. Maybe the old expression is right, and it’s not
all about what is learned in the classroom. No matter what, I’ll be a well-rounded individual after I leave this
place. If I die tomorrow, at least I lived today. Go. Be merry. For that is what we are called
to do. And so it is.

DAVE AND ERICH

Disclaimer: Since we both know Kristen D. Taylor’s mother and take to heart everything that she may say, we will
not begin our article in our usual apologetic tone. Instead, we have decided to begin this week’s article with a
factual preamble using a small amount of parenthetical phrases. We (meaning Dave and Erich, not the people who actually write
this column) assume all responsibility for our (their) actions and anything stupid you may do after reading this. Everything that
you read is true. We actually did some research this week and did not make up any of the names
you will read about. The quotes are actually quotes. We (once again, Dave and Erich) did not use our extensive
networking and research team, which coincidentally do not exist. The offensive sections are intended to ridicule and emotionally scar you.
We are vindictive, overconfident jerks who derive pleasure from generating ill will and utter hatred toward us, solely because we
are better than you. Any attempt to knock us off our egotistical pedestals will be scoffed at. Are we clear?
Kristen, we hope that you are happy now. This is not a disclaimer; we don’t care what it says at
the beginning of the paragraph. It simply provides a nice transition into another one of our cocky and preposterous articles
that we have become famous for this year.

This Week’s Topic: Kristen Taylor (hereinafter KT)

Note: In case you were wondering (you weren’t), our column has changed from “The Only Column You Ever Need to
Read” to the title above. This has resulted due to the advice of KT, who suggested that we substitute some
other word for “need.” Well, as you can see, we have taken your suggestion to heart and have granted you
your wish, Miss Taylor. Or did you get married over break to your shiny, new boyfriend that you deemed relevant
and necessary to mention in your last attempt at an interesting article (that was really cute, by the way)? You
don’t have to rub it in our faces that we are currently between boyfriends.

In her article, KT posed the question of (and we will quote because she is exactly the anal type who
would get her panties in a bunch if she was misquoted) “are there issues addressed in their columns?” Our response
is simple. Of course, there are no issues addressed in our columns because they’re crap. Can you imagine how long
they would be if we addressed issues? Addressing issues takes research, knowledge, and literary skill, none of which we possess.
We are just hilarious. Also, you caught us: we admit to using Max Nelson’s name simply because our column is
“positively boosted by his popularity.” Honestly KT, do you know Max or are you trying to feed off his popularity
like we are? The “10 free sessions” comment is simply overused, stupid, and carries no comedic value, not to mention
that some of the Prozac-popping wackjobs on campus might get offended by it. Lastly, KT was correct in saying that
she would be alluded to in our next column (see above, if you missed it).

Let’s do a little comparison. We (D&E and KT) both write for the paper. We both have opinions. We both
like to complain about things here at Davidson. We (D&E) are funny; KT is not. People look forward to reading
our articles. People dread it when your name appears in bold letters. It is becoming clear now: KT is trying
to feed off our popularity in the hopes of gaining an audience for her column. Or could she have a
secret crush on Max Nelson? We hope we have not exposed the truth here; what would Mr. Wonderful do? Well,
KT, you are finally in the spotlight. Enjoy!

Now that KT has had her 51 seconds of fame...

This Week’s Real Topic: Spring Break

We sincerely hope that everyone had an outstanding Spring Break 1999. Actually, we have more interest in the incoming freshmen,
but we thought...

The only column you should read

What do I have to tell her to make her come home with me? Why is everything in Spanish? Should
I use SPF 30 or 50? Did she say she was a lesbian to get me to leave her alone?
Why isn’t he looking at me? Do I look like a slut in leather? Why do they play the KA
mix tape over and over? Is it 4:00 p.m.? Is 10:00 a.m. too early to start drinking? Why shouldn’t I
try the Top Gun pick-up approach? Hey baby, got any Irish in ya?Want some? Why did she hit me? Do
you wanna dance? Where the hell am I? If you gathered any information from the previous paragraph, we want some
of what you are on. We were trying to convey that every guy on the beach is twice the size
of anyone here, the girls are complete and utter morons and don’t respond to anything but “Yo, yo, yo baby,
you wanna dance, yo!,” and we suck more than we thought. These are a list of actual quotes that we
heard while on Spring Break: “That water is salty” (referring to the Gulf of Mexico). “I am a fashion merchandising
major and plan to go to grad school for the same thing....I don’t know what I'll do, maybe design stores.”
“When the sun is out it is really warm, but when it isn’t, it’s much cooler.” Our favorite: “I have
never felt this way about someone so quickly, I think I love you.”

Comeback of the week:
Guy (not Wes Roach, we promise): “Do you want to dance?”
Girl: “No, you can keep dancing by yourself.”
Guy: “No, I said you look fat in those pants.”

Spring Break Motivational Thoughts Max Nelson Style(c), Dave and Erich Enterprises & Co. Inc. 1999 (Don’t you like it better
now that Max’s name is in it? Thought so.) Don’t be those guys. No one knows you; first impressions are
crucial. There are hundreds of attractive people looking for someone like you, so make your move. Don’t be afraid to
drink during breakfast. Don’t fear rejection. Be faithful to your loved ones, they are worth more to you than a
one-night stand (exception: someone famous). You can lie a lot and not get caught, so do it. Tell them you
are Max Nelson. Be persistent. Cheat on loved ones, they’ll never find out. Erase all video footage and destroy incriminating
pictures. When they say, “leave me alone,” they are just playing hard to get. Don’t be too overbearing, as it
may get you into trouble. Cheat. Take advantage of their stupidity and manipulate them. Get around. Cheat again, you have
nothing to lose now. There are hundreds of girls, and you only need to fool one.

Inside the Numbers Spring Break Style:
2. Number of weeks that our Spring Break should be delayed so we can experience what everyone else does.
75. Percent of actual size that a Davidson guy is compared to anyone on Spring Break in Texas.
26. Average size of guys’ necks from Western Michigan University. (Often higher than I.Q.)
0. Number of girls that approached us all week long.
0. Number of girls that have approached us in our long, pathetic existence.
9. Number of times the line “They call me the Roach” was used unsuccessfully during Spring Break.
2.1. Average number of Circle K hot dogs that were consumed daily after 12 a.m. by your authors.
83. Average temperature on South Padre Island.
50. Average wind speed on South Padre Island.
30. Percentage of senior class who has given for the Senior Gift. (One dollar qualifies as giving.)

Pet peeve of the week: The purpose of getting new Cat cards last semester was not only to spend a
lot of money, but to make everything simpler. There would only be one stripe to do everything. Now the school
can hire monkeys to swipe cards around campus. Maybe this will lower costs. These cards will (one day) also be
accepted by vending machines, a topic that has been discussed since our fathers went here. Not only do we not
understand why we all had to get new Cat cards last semester, but why no one has changed the damn
card readers on Chambers and at Baker. This is an incredible inconvenience. If I forget my old card on my
way to Baker, that woman always makes me go back home and get it. Aahhhhhhh! And for the love of
God, please fix the damn clocks on campus.

A moment for us: (Sound: ocean waves crashing on a beach.) Relax, take a deep breath, stop clenching your teeth.
You are happy and in a world of sheer bliss. Enjoy and revel in it. Remember, it doesn’t have to
go away. There is a tranquil breeze blowing all the hatred out of your life. Feel yourself being overcome by
the positive energy around you. Cherubic (angelic, we know an English major) images of Dave and Erich float freely around
you and lay you down into a peaceful sleep on a cloud of ecstasy.

Coming in three weeks: We expose Davidson's Achilles heel for the 1999-2000 school year. It’s not where to buy all
the performance enhancing drugs so the football team can have another winning season, or the “millennium bug,” or even how
to attract more smart students with even less social skills than this year's freshmen, but rather.... Also, we explain why
the paper’s name should be changed to The Erich and Davidsonian. The release of our action figures, our book signing,
and new eau de toilette: Vex.
