THE DAVIDSONIAN

The first of many.

Here I sit at 3:55 in the morning at a computer called Ed. In fact, all of the computers in
the office have affectionately received names from various characters and sources, but that is beside the point right now. I
am here to write a meaningful and insightful editorial that will probe at the deepest and darkest corners of the
subconscious. Alright, well one can always hope to have such insights during the early morning hours. Anyways, back to the
convoluted rhythm of my mind.

I never imagined that I would be sitting where I am right now (for those of you that are interested,
it is a burnt orange chair in the antechamber to what some former editors may refer to as the gateway
to hell). Though, what I am really saying deals with my disbelief that I have just finished my first issue
of the Davidsonian as an Editor in Chief. Like most students at Davidson during their Freshman year, I signed up
for way too many activities and then actually tried to perform the Herculean task of participating in every one. I
learned rather quickly that when the work piled up, another activity fell off my long list of things to do.
Yet, I managed to stick with a few of the activities that I signed up for that sunny August day
back in '96. Yup, you probably already guessed that the Davidsonian was one of those activities. Gosh, you are all
so bright!

My career at the Davidsonian began writing for Kirsten Recknagel and Randy Hartwell, the News Editors at the time. I
learned one lesson rather quickly from these two: always make sure you know what you are getting into before you
blindly nod your head and smile. I enjoyed writing off and on as a Staff Writer for three semesters, but
did enjoy the break while I studied abroad during the Spring of '98. I came back this past fall ready
and willing for something new and challenging. I continued to write off and on, but focused more of my attention
on learning the art of layout. Now, four months later, I find myself sharing the apex of the publication. WOW!

For those of you that know me and those that don’t, I am an extremely determined individual. If I say
that I am going to do something, more than likely I am going to do just that. So when I
say this next statement, believe me. I want to make the Davidsonian the best that it can be. We have
an extremely talented and dedicated Editorial board and I hope that together we make the Davidsonian the best that it
can be!

The ’s Foremost College Weekly

What it is...

Our fair century’s penultimate calendar year has drawn to a close, and a new administration has taken the reins at
Davidson’s college weekly. While I am merely the protégé of Kruse, Randy, and Sarah, I share several similarities with them.
One is that I ended up at the top of the masthead not because I somehow “won” the position, but
because I have assumed it out of a sense of duty. “Qualified and willing” describes far too few of us.
It is not grudgingly, however, that I accept this responsibility. I look forward to seeing what we can accomplish this
semester, and with John Dunwoody’s invaluable assistance, we should have more than a solid shot at making marked improvements in
the Davidsonian this year.

For starters, I would like to see all typographical errors (such as “DAVIDON”) meet a swift and callous death. To
quote one forward-looking Davidson student, “That is what I seek to change.” And when I refer to what “we” can
accomplish, that is not the royal “We” or “We, the Davidsonian Editorial Board;” I...mean the entire student body. The newspaper
is dependent upon student input, support, involvement, and last but not least, constructive criticism. Before the Davidsonian can meet the
demands of the student body, it must first actually have demands to meet. Oftentimes these demands come in the form
of angry rants or Letters to the Editor. Are we now or have we ever really been the “World’s Foremost
College Weekly” as our front page formerly suggested? Maybe not. But these petulant complaints do show us that 1.) at
least several students care whether or not their college newspaper is trash, and 2.) if they care so much and
have the answers that we must so clearly lack, shouldn’t they join the Davidsonian staff and reform the system from
within? Consider this a cordial invitation to impart your wisdom upon us. The point is that as far as our
audience is concerned, it is indifference and not criticism that is our worst enemy. So let us know what’s important
to you. If your student life is making news, tell us. If there’s something out there that you’d like to
write about or make sure that we don’t miss, tell us. Whether we become “Mecklenburg County’s Foremost College Weekly” or
the “World’s Foremost College Weekly” depends entirely upon everyone’s taking an interest in the Davidsonian and maybe even becoming involved.

LETTER TO THE EDITORS

RELIEF AID TO CENTRAL AMERICA

To the Editors, Davidson Students, Faculty, and Staff:

I want to thank all of you who donated money for the victims of Hurricane Mitch in Nicaragua and Honduras.
As you may know, the rain, flooding, and mudslides devastated parts of these countries, destroying roads and bridges and burying
many thousands of Nicaraguans and Hondurans. With the help of Community Service Coordinator, Bill Abrams, and the Organization of Latin
American Studies (OLAS), we raised a total of $2,196 from faculty, staff, and students. Of that sum, $1,023 was donated
to the Church World Service, and $1,173 was donated to the Red Cross’ International Response Fund. However, the need for
relief is far from over. Even with the massive amount of aid that has poured into the region, Honduras and
Nicaragua have ahead of them many years of recovery and reconstruction.

IF YOU WOULD STILL LIKE TO CONTRIBUTE, you may contact Bill Abrams (x2460) or myself (x6120), or you may mail
a check to one of the following organizations (You may also donate online):

American Red Cross
International Response Fund
P.O. Box 37243
Washington, DC 20013

Church World Service
Hurricane Mitch Relief
P.O. Box 968
Elkhart, IN 46515

The Red Cross directs 93% of dollars directly to relief efforts and Church World Service directs 100% of dollars to
relief efforts. I encourage you to give if you are able. Once again, I thank all of you who contributed
to this cause last December. I would also like to thank those members of OLAS who took the time to
collect money for the effort. Have a great semester!

Sincerely,
Carlos-Andrés Lacayo ‘02

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
SCOTT REEDER

News Editors
CARRIE ARTHUR
MELISSA deCASTRIQUE

Op-Ed Editor
ASHLEY E. KING

Circulation Manager
EUGENIA LEATH

Sports Editors
ALISON KALETT
SETH DAVIS

Arts & Living Editors
MIKE ANDERSON
PETER CLARK

Advertising Managers
DAVID JOHNSTON
EVAN McCORMICK

News Layout Editors
BURGIN HARDIN
ELDER GWIN

Op-Ed Layout Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
EVAN McCORMICK

Head Copy Editor
BEN COVINGTON

Sports Layout Editors
KELLS HETHERINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Arts & Living Contact Manager
NATHANIEL LOTZE

Cartoonist
Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Look for The Davidsonian on the Internet soon, the current site is in the process of being updated and brought
back online.
