THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

Davidson diver Liz Nugent got the opportunity to compete against Olympians without traveling halfway around the world.

As the first diver in Davidson history to qualify for the NCAA zone championships, the freshman from Fort Worth, Texas traveled to Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge where she competed against 44 other divers including Olympians, international stars, and former national and NCAA champions.

“She competed in the toughest zone against arguably the best divers in the country,” said Davidson diving coach Ted Hautau.

Nugent, who currently holds Davidson’s records in both the one and three-meter events, performed extremely well, claiming 22nd place in the one-meter event and 34th on three-meter. Also, she easily defeated the University of Louisville diver who edged her out for first place at the recent Southern States Championships.

“I was pleased with my performance,” Nugent said. “At the beginning of the season I never thought I would make it here. I got the opportunity to dive against a whole other level of competition and meet girls who will go to the Olympics.”

Hautau was especially pleased with Nugent’s performance in the one-meter event where she increased the level of difficulty of her dives since the beginning of the season. “I was really happy with her showing on one meter,” Hautau said. “She was really competitive with all the girls out there and came very close to qualifying for the NCAA national competition. It was just a lack of experience that kept her from qualifying. I’m sure she’ll be back next year and be even more competitive.”

Nugent qualified for the meet at Southern States when she earned the required 405 total points on her eleven dives.

“It was a fantastic achievement to qualify,” Hautau proudly pointed out. “She improved 100 points since her last championship meet in December.”

“It’s a testament to her skill,” said head swimming and diving coach Rich DeSelm.

Nugent’s performance was also impressive because prior to arriving at Davidson she had never competed on the three-meter board as most high school competition excludes the three-meter event.

TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1999

Nugent’s coaches and teammates attribute her success this season to her mental toughness as well as her diving skills.

“She has a nice entry into the water and knows how to finish her dives,” Hautau said. “Also she is a good competitor, focused, and likes to win.”

“Liz is a very good competitor and has a way of blocking everything out and focusing in meets,” pointed out fellow diver, sophomore Christa Conner. “She is very hard on herself but that’s what makes her so good at diving. She won't accept anything but the best from herself.”

Nugent says she “definitely plans on returning to NCAA zones next year,” while Hautau asserts, “If Liz does what she needs to do between now and next year and trains over the summer she will be prepared for next year.”

Adventure Center in WV seeks local part-time rep, generous commission. Outdoor enthusiast recommended. Send resume to: e-mail rep@aceraft.com or FAX (304) 469-3053.

Erin — 895-3316

Will — 6265

Want to TRY? Co-Ed CHEERLEADERS WANTED

Be a part of the exciting Millennium Season For more Info Contact

Katie — 6466

Work in Davidson This Summer

- Summer Employment in the Physical Plant

The Physical Plant is now accepting applications for summer workers. Positions available in grounds, painting, carpentry, building services, and mechanical shops.

Interested Students should contact Lee Brawley in Jackson Court #10, Ext. 2119

Application Deadline is April 30, 1999