By Jim SWANSBOROUGH
College Communications

Could you save someone’s life if they were in danger of dying? In one particular case, it’s much easier than
you think. On Tuesday and Wednesday, November 16-17, the Davidson campus group known as Project Life will host a drive
to “type” up to 400 people who might be able to save the life of someone suffering from a fatal
disease. It’s the 10th annual Project Life typing for the National Bone Marrow Registry. Registration is free, and nurses from
the American Red Cross will be on location taking blood samples in the Morrison Room of the College Union from
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. both days.

Since the first Project Life drive in the fall of 1989, more than 3,000 people have been typed at Davidson
for inclusion in the National Bone Marrow Registry. Physicians throughout the United States and the world have access to the
registry to look for donors whose bone marrow type matches that of their patients. Bone marrow transplants can be critical
in saving the lives of people suffering from more than 60 fatal diseases, including leukemia, aplastic anemia, and breast cancer.
At least ten of Davidson’s volunteers have been matched to needy patients in the past and have undergone the medical
procedure to donate a small amount of their marrow.

According to the national average, an unrelated individual has a 1 in 20,000 chance of being a match for someone
in need of bone marrow, but as the national database grows in size, each individual patient’s chances of finding a
matching donor increases. Project Life was founded by former Davidson student David Lindsay, who himself had a transplant and wished
to help others in need. The current student chairs, Brent Ferrell and Katie Bond, are responsible for organizing the upcoming
drive and for raising $40,000 so 400 new volunteers can be typed at no cost. The organization plans to host
an additional drive in the spring targeting minority volunteers within the town of Davidson.

Project Life recently sponsored an ice cream social to educate the community about the donation process. Clark Scalera ’00 told
about his experience of being a marrow donor. Debbie Ferrell, mother of Davidson students Brent ’00 and Ben.

Davidson Outdoors concludes year with Into the Woods Week
By Lauren DANIEL
Staff Writer

Davidson Outdoors (DO) gave the campus a taste of their Into the Woods Week this past week. Into the Woods
was launched last spring, giving the campus a wide variety of outdoor activities. DO did a smaller scale outdoors week
to accent the southern nature writers that spoke last Wednesday. On Wednesday evening, they held a coffeehouse on Chambers Lawn
with lots of food and, of course, Frisbees. Following the day’s activities, the group had a campout.

Community Bikes were also distributed as part of the week’s activities for campus use on Wednesday. These bikes were left
on campus last spring and never claimed in the fall. DO decided to put them to use by repairing them,
painting them red, and allowing them to be used by the community. If the program continues to be a success,
DO plans on buying bikes from the Habitat for Humanity store and repairing them to add to the six already
present on campus.

DO has several events scheduled before the next semester begins. To sign up or for more information, call Mike Goode
in the Davidson Outdoors Office at x2623. Next weekend, there is a caving trip to Grinestaff Cave in Virginia. Following
students’ return to campus from Thanksgiving break, Saturday, December 4th, students will have a chance to try out the new
high ropes course. The course was finished over the summer, and now there are facilitators trained to lead high ropes
activities. The cost is $7.Keep yourself awake during exams by joining the Polar Bear Club at the Lake Campus and
taking a swim in Lake Norman. Over winter break, DO is offering a canoeing trip through the Everglades. They will
stay in the area of the Ten Thousand Islands on the outer coast of the Everglades. The trip leaves January
7. Also, trip leaders are setting out on a road trip to the Rio Grande. The trip is from January
2-16. DO is up for suggestions for spring trips and activities. Contact Kurt Yusi at x6720 with your ideas.

'03 spoke about her own transplant, and Susan Roberts, a political science professor, described her young son’s transplant. Scalera was
matched through the registry, but when he was called, he was not required to agree to the process. He chose
to volunteer and said it was a relatively simple process. “The donation process was great,” he said. “They treat you
like you’re some kind of hero. It felt like a good thing to do.” When making donations, patients are anesthetized
and doctors draw two percent of the bone marrow from their hips. The donor is sore for a few days,
but recovery is fast.

Four years ago, Debbie Ferrell knew nothing about bone marrow transplants. She soon knew more than she wanted to know.
She was diagnosed with cancer and underwent chemotherapy, then she received a transplant from her daughter. There was a 100-day
waiting period to see if the transplant took effect, and in Ferrell’s case, it did. Ferrell said, “Right now I’m
enjoying really good health and I am so grateful.” Susan Roberts noted that marrow transplants are a cure of last
resort following chemotherapy and radiation treatment because they can be very dangerous for the recipient and might not work. Doctors
essentially break down the patient’s own immune system and allow the donated marrow to create a new immune system. Roberts’
son, Jack, needed an operation three years ago when he was two years old. Doctors searched for a match within
his family and found that he matched his older brother. That was fortunate because there is only a 25% chance
of a family match. The transplant has worked so far for Jack, though he still takes medication to help his
body accept the new marrow. Roberts concluded, “The organization is called ‘Project Life’ because it’s a second chance at life.
I encourage all of you and your friends to get typed. It’s very simple and not painful to get typed.
It’s a small price to pay.”

Volunteers for typing need not preregister. Those with questions regarding Project Life may contact Rosie Molinary, Davidson’s Community Service and
Bonner Scholars Coordinator, at 892-2298. For more general information on bone marrow donation, visit the National Bone Marrow Program's website
at www.marrow.org.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDLISH
ANN GREGORY

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

NEWS
Senior Editor
PETER CLARK

Business Manager
PETER CLARK

Advertising Manager
OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

Photographer
JAKE HARRINGTON

ARTS & LIVING
Senior Editor
LAKE NORMAN’S BEST MEXICAN FOOD!

SPORTS
Senior Editor
MIKE ANDERSON
CADER HOWARD

Photographers
BURGIN HARDIN
JESSICA BOGO

Circulation Managers
ADAM SOTO
CINDY CIE

Photographer
ANNA JUDY

Head Copy Editors
CADER HOWARD
BER K. KVERNO
IRENE MIDDLETON

Layout Editors
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Web Editor
Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
