**DAVIDSON COLLEGE**

"28036’s Foremost College Weekly"
ESTABLISHED 1914

1999 tenure decisions announced.
NEWS 4

Stop vandalizing!
OPINIONS 6

Fun facts for Earth Day!
A&L 7

Two men’s track members set PRs at ASU!
SPORTS 11

Davidson College celebrates the Earth

By Betsy Nose AND JT Tolentino
Staff Writers

On Thursday, April 22, Davidson College will celebrate Earth Day from 11:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. on Chambers Lawn. Included in the Earth Day celebration will be a variety of “representatives of national, local and campus groups with an environmental interest,” according to Earth Day chair Nathaniel Cook. Representatives from the Charlotte Humane Society, Mecklenburg County Waste Reduction and Recycling, Catawba Lands Conservatory, and the Sierra Club, along with 16 other organizations, will have information booths at the celebration. A free CROP lunch and free Ben and Jerry’s sorbet, as well as musical entertainment, will be provided at the event.

This year’s Earth Day celebration has been extended to encompass this entire week, entitled “Earth Week.” Among this week’s activities, there will be a photography show of natural wonders in the Union Café, with works by Amber Worrell and Bruce Bell, and a clothing drive in the Union Pit that will both run throughout the week. Dr. Annie Ingram’s students will present an environmental poetry reading on Tuesday, April 20 at 9:00 p.m. at the Outpost.

The featured speakers of Earth Week will be Ron Altman and Dane Kuppinger. Altman is the director of the Catawba Lands Conservatory and will be speaking about conserving natural habitats through the use of land trusts on Tuesday, April 20 in the Morrison Room of the Union at 7:00 p.m. Kuppinger is from the Southern Appalachian Biodiversity Project, and will lecture on their campaign to end commercial logging on public land on Wednesday in the Homeroom at 7:00 p.m.

Cook says that the purpose of Earth Day is to “stress ways of living that are more environmentally responsible.” Earth Day offers the opportunity to address local concerns here at Davidson as well as national environmental problems. According to the Earth Day Network (www.sdearthtimes.com), Earth Day has grown to be one of the largest grassroots movements in US history since its inception in 1970, when over 20 million Americans around the country participated in the celebration. The Earth Day movement has been effective in raising environmental awareness, even prompting legislation such as the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts.

The EAC and the SGA are sponsoring this year’s Earth Day and Earth Week celebration.

The Class of 2003 is offered admission

By HEATHER HITE
Staff Writer

The Davidsonian apologizes for the errors in the admissions article in the March 30 issue. This article should correct those mistakes, and such carelessness will not happen again.

The Admissions Office has accepted the Class of 2003, and those prospective students are currently in the process of deciding where to enroll.

The targeted number of students for the class is 465. This year 197 students were accepted in the early decision process. Of those students, 111 were women, and 86 were men. The Admissions Office has also offered admission in the regular decision process to 840 students coming from 46 different states and 24 foreign countries. The college accepted 36.8% of the applicants, the same rate as last year.

For the students accepted in the spring decision process, the median SAT range is 1320-1460. Out of those 840 accepted students, 136 are valedictorians of their high school class, and 496 have a high school GPA of 4.0 or better.

Also, 25% of the 840 students are recruited athletes for Davidson’s 21 intercollegiate sports. Therefore, Davidson coaches have played an important role in the admissions process.

The Faculty Admissions Committee has also played a vital role in admissions. It advises the admissions staff on cases that are not clearly admissible. This committee is chaired by Professor Peter Krentz of the Classics Department. Other members of the committee include Professor Dan Boye of the Physics Department, Professor Lou Ortmayer of the Political Science Department, Professor Magdalena Maiz-Peña of the Spanish Department, Professor Bill Lawing of the Music Department, and Professor Cole Barton of the Psychology Department.

Many endeavors are being made to enroll the targeted number for the Class of 2003. For example, a special website exists for admitted students. In addition, the Admissions Office is sending letters from various campus figures to these students. While President Vagt is writing to some, departmental faculty are contacting the top

Please see Admissions on page 4

NEWS 2
OPINIONS 6
ARTS & LIVING 7
SPORTS 11

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036