THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Euisapetu Situ
Student Health Advisor

No! It’s not happening again... He wouldn't... Ahhh, he is — this is so embarrassing! My father is an Ear,
Nose, Throat, Head and Neck Surgeon with strong feelings against tobacco because he’s spent many hours with smokers, cutting out
a larynx, looking at throat and mouth cancers, and watching people unable to survive without an oxygen tank continue to
smoke. Every time we go to a restaurant where he spies a teenager (or especially a group of teenagers) smoking,
he walks over to their table, and from the expression on his face, I know he’s going to make the
speech. It goes a little something like this:

“Hi, I’m a physician, and I'd just like to tell you that...” He continues with all the evils of tobacco,
smoking. The danger those kids are putting themselves in. This speech used to embarrass me more than anything. I could
feel those kids staring at my father and then at me, and I knew what they were thinking — whatever!!
— the exact same thing that every smoker on this campus thinks when someone talks about smoking. Now though, I
realize that Dad was doing the best thing that he could do for those kids — he told them the
truth and he did it with a smile on his face and more confidence than I would have telling people
in no uncertain terms that they were killing themselves.

Killing themselves... We’ve all heard the anti-smoking rhetoric, but just for kicks, let’s review. Smoking will kill you; maybe not
in one day or one year or ten years, but it will kill you. It will destroy your body through
cancer and other diseases and will make you look pretty terrible in the process — yellow teeth, bloodshot eyes, thin
hair — just the kind of person I'd like to be with, especially since that person is trying to murder
me with their second-hand smoke.

The myths about smoking are really ridiculous though. One of my friends once told me that everyone has to try
smoking at least once — why? The idea that smoking should go hand-in-hand with other substances we consider rites of
passage like alcohol is just foolish! Even more absurd is the “I-only-smoke-when-I’m-drunk smoker.” Okay, smoking gives you a buzz —
so does eating a pound of chocolate, but you’re not gonna do that. Are there other reasons to suck tar
and smoke into your lungs — let me qualify — any good reasons? I can’t make anyone stop smoking, but
let me give you this assurance — smoking is basically the same thing as knowingly sticking an HIV-infected needle in
your arm — they’ll both kill you and you knew that before you even acted.

Rigger’s book explains evolution of Taiwanese democracy

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

A new book by Shelley Rigger, Brown Associate Professor of Political Science at Davidson College, shows how elections fueled Taiwan’s
50-year evolution from dictatorship to democracy, and explains Taiwan’s complex and dangerous relationship with the People’s Republic of China. “Politics
in Taiwan: Voting for Democracy” (Routledge, 1999) is the only study of Taiwan’s political development targeted for general readers. While
focusing on Taiwan, it also offers insights into the democratization process that are applicable to many other countries.

Professor Rigger is recognized as a leading scholar of Taiwan’s domestic politics in the United States. She heads the American
Political Science Association’s Conference Group on Taiwan Studies, has published numerous articles about Taiwan in scholarly journals and books, and
has made many presentations in the U.S. and in Taiwan, including the State Department and the Foreign Service Institute. Her
new book examines the role of elections in the evolution of Taiwan’s government from a “pseudo democracy” into a genuinely
democratic system. Rigger proposes that the process of elections, though largely a sham at first, created a snowball effect that
ultimately gave birth to a legitimate electoral system on the island.

The nationalist government established in Taiwan under Chiang Kai-shek after its defeat by the mainland communists in 1945 was little
more than a dictatorship, with a permanent legislature and Chiang serving as permanent president. Still, it offered some popular participation,
in the form of competitive elections for local offices. Over the years, citizens developed a strong attachment to elections as
a means to make their wishes heard. Members of the permanent legislature gradually died off at the same time that
the electorate was becoming more savvy. The vacant seats in the permanent legislature were filled via supplementary elections that became
increasingly competitive in the 1970s and 1980s. Chiang Kai-shek’s son, Chiang Ching-kuo, became president following his father’s death in 1975.
The younger Chiang allowed significant reforms in Taiwan’s political system, including lifting a ban on opposition parties that had been
in place from 1947 to 1987. He held the presidency until his own death in 1988, when his hand-picked successor,
Lee Teng-hui took over. Under Lee, the reform process accelerated, until Taiwan held its first direct presidential election in 1996.
With Lee’s reelection in an open competition among four candidates, Taiwan’s democracy was extended to all levels of government.

“Chiang Ching-kuo and Lee Teng-hui’s flexibility and pragmatism were important in Taiwan's transition to democracy, but I would argue that,
fundamentally, Taiwan is democratic today because people with new ideas co-opted the institutions that were already in place, launching a
democratization process the central government couldn’t control,” Rigger said.

Because Taiwanese politics in rural areas still involves cash payments from candidates to voters, other Taiwan experts have argued that
the country does not deserve to be called democratic. Unlike other authors, Rigger explores the phenomenon of vote buying in
detail, interviewing both vote buyers and voters who accept bribes. While acknowledging the cash exchange, she concludes the practice is
an artifact of Taiwanese history. She explained, “People expect to be paid for their votes, at least by ruling party
candidates, but payment isn’t a guarantee of a vote. It’s like an insurance policy. If you give me something, I
might vote for you, but if you don’t, I won’t even consider voting for you. Studies have found that payments
are only 20% effective in securing votes.”

She concluded, “Taiwan has limitations. It’s not perfect, but it’s democratic in the most fundamental sense. Ordinary people are free
to assess their interests and to vote for candidates whom they believe will best represent those interests in government. Taiwan’s
electoral campaigns and day-to-day political life are extraordinarily vibrant, and the popular view of politics is a fascinating melange of
pragmatism and idealism.”

Her book also examines Taiwan’s complicated relationship with mainland China (People’s Republic of China, or PRC).PRC), which overshadows all of
its internal politics as well as U.S. policy in the region. President Lee shook up U.S. policymakers and drew an
angry response from the PRC last summer when he publicly stated the two entities should have a “special state-to-state relationship.”
Rigger explained that the angry PRC reaction was prompted by Lee’s first-ever use of the word “state” in discussing Taiwan-PRC
relations. Many people asked why President Lee would make such a rash statement and risk the wrath of his government’s
biggest enemy—the PRC—and its biggest friend—the U.S.A. Rigger offers some explanations. First, Rigger argues that Lee was warning the U.S.
not to lean toward the PRC in its own position. “I think he saw Washington and Beijing heading off together
in a direction he didn’t like, and decided to sacrifice his short-term comfort to stop them from moving any further,”
said Rigger. Furthermore, she said Lee was merely expressing in another way a feeling shared by most Taiwanese. “Taiwan is
willing to negotiate its relationship with the PRC, but only as an equal. Taiwanese citizens contend that Sun Yat Sen
created the People’s Republic of China in 1912, and that the communists on the mainland and democrats on Taiwan are
equal inheritors of that legacy.” The communists on the mainland don’t see it that way. They view the Taiwanese as
a breakaway faction and fear that Taiwan intends to declare independence. The PRC maintains pressure on Taiwan through missile tests
and military maneuvers near its shores to deter the fervor for independence. The Taiwanese resent heavy-handed bullying by the mainland,
and the stalemate continues.

By Trey Davis

United States interests further complicate the situation. Treaties affirm America’s defense of the island because Chinese control over Taiwan would
imperil American allies Japan and South Korea, and give China strategic control over Pacific shipping lanes. Furthermore, the U.S. can’t
abandon Taiwan philosophically because Taiwan has become a textbook case in democratization and capitalism. “They’re the type of country we’re
supposed to be committed to; they’ve done everything we’ve asked of them politically and economically,” said Rigger.

The issue is at the heart of all relations between the mainland and the U.S. “This is the central issue
separating China and the U.S.,” said Rigger. “The PRC leaders say we’re interfering with their sovereignty, and they’re not going
to give in on other issues such as human rights as long as we’re standing between them and what they
consider to be their sacred territory.” Rigger holds out little hope for near-term reconciliation between the involved parties. “The best
Taiwan can hope for, and the best China can hope for, is to continue to talk about short-term issues, while
waiting for a more favorable situation to evolve on both sides,” she said. The best possible long-term solution, according to
Rigger, would be a compromise wherein both governments agree to the concept of a unified China that transcends the two
political entities that exist today. That might allow them to send a unified team to the Olympics and conduct limited
joint activities on the world stage, while maintaining their political sovereignty.

President Lee’s term of office is up next year, and Rigger said the March 18, 2000, presidential elections promise an
exciting race between three candidates who have different views on the country’s relationship with the mainland. Candidate Lien Chan is
Lee’s current vice-president. His election would probably not change the country’s relationship with the mainland much. The second candidate, Chen
Shui-bian, represents the main opposition party, the Democratic Progressive Party. The DPP advocates independence in theory, but believes that Taiwan
is already independent, and thus does not need to take any further action to promote or secure its independence; Chen
also hopes to attract voters with liberal initiatives in social welfare and human development. The third candidate, James Soong, who
is leading in the polls, broke away from the ruling party in frustration over its current direction. Rigger said, “If
Chen or Soong wins, Taiwanese politics will be totally new. No one can predict what will happen.”

Professor Rigger has been studying Taiwan since 1983. Her senior thesis on the topic of government policy toward Taiwan’s aboriginal
peoples won Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson Senior Thesis Prize in 1984. Her Ph.D. dissertation at Harvard, “Machine Politics in the New
Taiwan: Institutional Reform and Electoral Strategy in the Republic of China on Taiwan,” was the result of a year’s field
research in Taiwan and included more than 100 interviews with journalists, politicians, local political organizers, and activists. She currently holds
a grant from a major foundation to study Taiwan’s opposition party, the Democratic Progressive Party. Professor Rigger conducts her research
in Mandarin, and also speaks some Taiwanese. She has taught at Davidson since 1993. For more information, please contact Shelley
Rigger at 704/892-2505 or shrigger@davidson.edu. For a sample of her work, see her article on 50 years of Taiwan history,
“Taiwan: Finding Opportunity in Crisis,” in the September 1999 issue of Current History.
