THE DAVIDSONIAN
By Jody HEARN
Guest Writer

A Look at Watson: Psychological Scientific Research at Davidson

With the recent conversion of a bachelor’s degree in Psychology from a B.A. to a B.S., it can now officially
be seen as a science. This article is a look at one professor in the Davidson Psychology department and his
current scientific research.

Dr. Mark Smith is an Assistant Professor of Psychology at Davidson. He joined us last year, and he is quickly
blossoming as a member of the community. Home is Hickory, NC, where he also received his bachelor’s degree in Psychology
from Lenoir Rhyne College. He then went on to graduate work at UNC Chapel Hill where he received his Ph.D.
in Behavioral Neuroscience. His specialty is behavioral pharmacology, which examines the effects of drugs on human and animal behavior. He
has done extensive research in this field both in graduate school and also at Davidson.

Dr. Smith is particularly interested in the variables that influence a subject’s sensitivity to drugs that interact with the central
nervous system. There are a number of these variables, and they include characteristics of the user (biological), characteristics of the
drug (pharmacological), and characteristics of the situation in which the drug is administered (environmental). He examines these various variables in
animal models of behavior, to determine how the variables influence a particular behavioral response, and how they interact with one
another to modulate that response. The goal of such focus is to predict what the specific effects of a drug
will be under a wide range of clinical and experimental conditions.

Such research is very important for the clinical application of drugs. The fruits of this research could very easily increase
the efficacy of a doctor’s prescribing power. Knowing the exact variables that contribute to a particular drug effect in a
patient, the doctor can be better able to prescribe the correct type of medication that will produce the strongest therapeutic
response, but with the least amount of side effects.

Dr. Smith is currently working on a number of research projects with seniors who are working on their Psychology senior
theses. In one particular project, he is working with Jason Gray ’00 on whether or not age (a biological variable)
affects a subject’s sensitivity to pain medication. Their most recent findings suggest that “as an organism ages, they become more
sensitive to the analgesic effects of these drugs.” In another study, Dr. Smith is working with Bill Stoops ’00 to
examine the development of tolerance to the effects of some Central Nervous System depressants on motor coordination. Findings obtained in
this experiment will reveal if the speed and magnitude to which tolerance develops to the motor-impairing effects of these drugs
is influenced by the difficulty of the behavioral task. In yet another study that Dr. Smith is about to start,
he will be examining the effects of environmental variables like social support and environmental enrichment on a subject’s sensitivity to
pain medication. He will begin that research early this coming spring.

The students who usually work with Dr. Smith on his research projects are Psychology majors who are collecting data for
a senior thesis. He actively recruits students from all majors for most of his research projects. Dr. Smith’s current research
is funded by Davidson grants and funds. He has recently submitted a grant to the National Institute of Drug Abuse.

New bikes
@ Story continued from Front page

...college community bicycles and should be kept on campus. So if you want to go to the post office, just
ride to Main Street, park the bike and walk across. It will say a lot about Davidson College if this
program is successful. If people seem to be enthusiastic about it, and treat the bikes respectfully, we could get more
bikes in the future. Shandley is even considering purchasing a few tandem bicycles for the enjoyment of all. He thinks
tandem bikes would improve the dating scene here. He also said he wouldn't mind people who like the idea of
having a few tandem bikes around emailing him and telling him so. So if you think tandems would spice up
your love life, or they just sound like fun, email Shandley and let him know. Have fun with the new
bikes. If you find anything wrong with one of them take it to Davidson Outdoors in the Union. Rob will
fix it up and have you back on the road before you have time to take out ten bucks and
get a bowl of soup.

Davidson artist to be honored
@ Story continued from Front page

Joseph Rowand of Somerhill Gallery in Chapel Hill. The awards committee noted that Jackson is considered by many to be
the state’s most noted current abstract painter. The citation said, “His...Textured, multihued, and layered paintings hint at an inner life
while his creative talent and energy inspire students. Through mythical and poetic landscapes, the painter explores the South's psychic roots.
Jackson, a Raleigh native, says he can’t remember a time when he didn’t paint. As a teenager, he won his
first award at a juried exhibition held at the N.C. Museum of Art and held his first one-person show in
1964. Following his Davidson graduation, he received an M.F.A. in painting from UNC Chapel Hill in 1970. He has had
more than 100 one-person exhibitions in the U.S. and abroad, along with group exhibitions. His work is in over 80
museum collections, including the British Museum in London and the Brooklyn Museum in New York. He recently collaborated with N.C.
Dance Theater director Pierre Bonnefoux on a unique ballet piece that featured the evolution of one of his paintings. The
painting, in its various stages of completion, was projected onto the stage of the Blumenthal Center Belk Theatre in Charlotte,
with dancers in white unitards moving through the image. Jackson is listed in “Who’s Who in American Art” and “Who’s
Who in America.” In addition to creating his own artwork, he teaches five studio classes each year. One of his
outstanding accomplishments at Davidson was to lead the college in planning for the construction of its state-of-the-art facility, the Katherine
and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center, which opened in 1993.

Carnegie Mellon accuses 71 students of music piracy, unplugs their intranet links

*Reprinted from the Charlotte Observer By Peter Schmidt Charlotte Observer Staff

In light of the recent events at Carnegie Mellon University, The Davidsonian staff would like to reprint the following article
by Peter Schmidt from this past week’s “Charlotte Observer.” Despite the fast pace of technology, the law has its ways
of catching up to those that bend it at will. Carnegie Mellon University has disciplined 71 students for allegedly posting
copyright-protected music on their sites within the university's computer network. The university said it discovered the copyright violations last month
when it conducted surprise inspections of student computer files at the behest of the Recording Industry Association of America. “It
is not our practice to actively police our own intranet,” Paul G. Fowler, the university's associate dean of student affairs,
said in an interview Sunday. “But,” he added, “when somebody says to us, ‘We have a problem with members of
your community violating copyright laws,’ we have to do something.” Carnegie Mellon is one of about 300 colleges that have
received letters from the association warning that they could be sued if their students use campus computer networks to violate
copyright laws. The association is concerned mainly about lost sales as a result of students copying compact disks onto MP3s
— a form of high-quality digital audio file — and then posting them onto World-Wide Web sites where others can
download them.

On October 18, Carnegie Mellon randomly checked the public portions of 250 students’ computer accounts, mainly “to find out whether
we had a problem on our campus,” Mr. Fowler said. It determined that 71 students had posted MP3s with copyright-protected
songs on websites accessible to about 11,000 users of the university's computer network. The university accused the students of violating
its policies requiring computer users to respect copyright laws. It punished them by suspending their home-computer access to the university
network, thereby forcing the students to go to one of the campus’s computer labs whenever they needed network access. “We
had to hold the students accountable for violating university policy and copyright law, and the source of that violation was
their computer,” Mr. Fowler said. Several students criticized the university's inspections as an invasion of privacy. “There was a good
bit of uproar,” Mr. Fowler acknowledged. “The fact that the university had not actively enforced these policies up to this
point caught a lot of students off guard.” The students’ home computers were to remain cut off from the university’s
network for the rest of the semester — unless the students agreed to attend a 90-minute class on copyright rules,
in which case their home-computer access to the network would be restored in four weeks.

Tuesday, leukemia, cancer. Project of its drive. What’s your Type? Find out.

10th Annual Project Life Bone Marrow Typing Drive Wednesday, 9am-3pm In the Morrison Room of the Union.

-Bone marrow transplants are critical in saving the lives of people suffering from over sixty fatal diseases, including aplastic anemia
and breast cancer.
-To type one person costs $75.00, but Life will absorb the full cost.
-If you have already been typed, encourage others who have not... freshmen and anyone else who is part of the
Davidson community!!! Nov. 16th & Nov. 17th.
