2. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

International Festival showcases diversity

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

The International Students Association (ISA) held its annual International Festival on Saturday, October 16. Students and faculty were invited to
stroll through the Union, enjoying good food and interesting exhibits on the various countries represented at Davidson.

Twenty-two different countries and one region — the Middle East — were represented at the fair. The international students set
up booths for their respective homelands. These booths were grouped in the Home Room, the Conference Room, or the 900
Room of the Union, depending on the area of the world to which each belonged. At these booths, one found
a variety of examples of the culture presented. Naturally, the great food was the biggest draw, but, in addition to
the cuisine, many showed examples of traditional dress, played music, or displayed pictures and other information about the country.

The Festival also had several additional activities aimed at exposing students to other cultures and at highlighting the great wealth
of international diversity at Davidson. To the surprise and delight of all present, a mariachi band gave a performance in
the 900 Room. Next, the international students took part in a flag show. Carlos Carreras ‘02, the organizer of the
entire event, called out the names of the countries present at the fair. The students entered the 900 Room carrying
the different national flags and then introduced themselves first in their native language and then in English.

Afterwards, visitors were able to see an African drumming performance and then a martial arts demonstration by Hun Chor Shin
‘02. Finally, Mauricio Sauma ‘00 led students in a Latin dance workshop.

Carreras said that the preparations for the event began more than a month ago. He contacted students through ISA to
determine who would be interested in operating a booth and coordinated the arrangements for the subsequent activities. He stated that
the purpose of the event was two-fold. First, he said that the hope was to make this event an opportunity
for new international students to get involved. Second, the Festival was intended to encourage “participation in events so that people
will learn” about the number and variety of cultures represented here on campus.

EVENTS COMPILED BY LIZ CLASEN
Guest Writer

The week of October 24-28 will be Eyes on the Prize Week, sponsored by BSC and Sanctuary. We will be
showing the 6-tape video series of “Eyes on the Prize,” which is a powerful documentary series on the civil rights
movement. The schedule will be the following:

Sunday, October 24
7:00 - 900 Room - video one is shown - focuses on the beginnings of the movement
8:30 - Home Room - Weekly College Worship focuses on the celebration of the civil rights movement

Monday, October 25
7:00 - 900 Room - video two shown - focuses on desegregation
8:00 - 900 Room - Panel discussion on desegregation in Mecklenburg County then and now. Panelists will be Arthur Griffin,
current chairperson of the School Board; Frye Gilliard, author of the book The Dream Long Deferred about the original Swann
case in Charlotte and currently writing a book about the reopening of the Swann case; and Katherine Crosby, long-time employee
of the school system.

Tuesday, October 26
7:00 - Home Room - video three shown - focuses on freedom rides and sit-ins
8:00 - Home Room - video four shown - focuses on the March on Washington

Wednesday, October 27
6:30 - 900 Room - CROP dinner, gather for rice, beans, and discussion
7:00 -900 Room - video five shown - focuses on the Voting Rights Act
Thursday, October 28
7:00 - 900 Room - video six shown - focuses on Selma march
8:00 - 900 Room - discussion

WALT makes changes
Story continued from front page.

In an effort to correct this, they have started assigning certain music genres to certain times of the day. This
system is common among many student-run stations at other colleges and universities and gives students the luxury of knowing what
to expect when they turn on the radio. Hopefully, this will make it “a little bit easier for listeners to
have an idea of what WALT is about,” said Houser.

Another new development is the anticipated addition of a WALT web page. The site will provide pictures of and information
about the DJs and other information about developments at the station. In the future, the station hopes to offer students
the opportunity to listen to the station over the internet. Such an innovation would make the station more accessible for
students both at Davidson and at other area colleges.

All of these changes are the results of lots of hard work and planning, said station manager Bobby Pittenger ‘02.
The executive board spent time over the summer discussing which way they wanted WALT to go. They discussed many options
and even considered changing over to FM, although that plan didn’t materialize. Pittenger praised the work of all of the
members and especially the helpful advice of President Vagt. “Dr. Vagt has been wonderful in helping out WALT,” he said.
The board hopes to continue these trends of improvement, greater professionalism, and cooperation with the administration in years to come.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDLISH
ANN GREGORY

Photographer
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

Editors in Chief
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
PETER CLARK

Advertising Manager
JAKE HARRINGTON
PETER CLARK

ARTS & LIVING
Senior Editor
AVIS

SPORTS
Senior Editors
BEN COVINGTON
MIKE ANDERSON
CADER HOWARD

Photographers
BURGIN HARDIN
JESSICA BOGO

Circulation Managers
ADAM SOTO
CINDY CLARK
ANNA JUDY
INA SPECHAR

Head Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
BEN COVINGTON

Layout Editors
IRENE MIDDLETON
CADER HOWARD
DEREK KVERNO
IRENE MIDDLETON

Web Editor
DAN WINGATE
STEPHEN GAMBOA

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian-html.

The Davidsonian is published Mondays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are
located on the third floor of the Union.

Subscriptions cost $40.00 a year.

DEADLINES & AD RATES
All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles
received after this deadline will not be edited or placed. These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s)
or dropped off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks can be used
if the file is saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates:
Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40

For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supersede the Friday deadline.
