THE DAVIDSONIAN News. TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1999

Dr. Walter McCrone discusses the Turin Shroud

By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, March 17, Dr. Walter McCrone of the McCrone Research Institute in Chicago gave a lecture in the Chambers gallery about the authenticity of the Turin Shroud. The Turin Shroud, displayed in St. John’s Church in Turin, France, has been the destination of millions of religious pilgrimages. Devout religious followers believe that Jesus was wrapped in this shroud after his death. Dr. McCrone accepted the task of determining the dates and chemical make-up of the Turin Shroud, and he unknowingly involved himself in a great religious controversy that has remained a part of his life even today.

The Public Lectures Committee and the Department of Chemistry combined efforts with Dr. Ruth Beeston, a Chemistry professor, to bring McCrone to Davidson. McCrone studied as an undergraduate and graduate student at Cornell University. He works in research microscopy, crystallography, and ultramicroanalysis. In 1956, McCrone founded the McCrone Associates, and in 1960 he started the McCrone Research Institute that teaches fundamental research in microscopy. Dr. McCrone has used his skills to study art objects and artifacts such as the Vinland Map and the Turin Shroud. He also works to trace evidence in civil and criminal investigations.

In 1978, Father Peter Rinaldi invited Dr. McCrone to investigate the authenticity of the revered Turin Shroud. The shroud is about fourteen feet long and has been through several fires. There is a distinct image of the back and front of a body as well as what appears to be blood stains. The image of the body is a negative one where the highest points on a body are the ones that show up on the shroud. The first knowledge of the shroud was in 1356 when it was exhibited for the first time as Christ’s burial shroud. Since then, the shroud has been viewed by many who believe in its authenticity. In 1932, over three and a half million people viewed the shroud in a period of just several weeks.

McCrone began his task by taking samples from all over the shroud. He took samples from areas where the image showed up, from “blood” stained areas, and from areas without any coloring on them. He made slides of this material and magnified them by 2,500 times. McCrone found that the image samples contained a Red Ochre pigment, which is a paint pigment that has been used for thousands of years. The “blood stained” area of the shroud contained the paint pigment vermillion, which has been used since 700 AD. McCrone explained that real blood would not be made up of tiny particles like the samples that he found on the fibers. He realized that this information alone would not satisfy the millions of people who believe that the shroud really has the imprint of Jesus’s body. He said, “I knew it was a pretty important question, and I knew I would be questioned about it.”

In order to produce more evidence, McCrone stained similar cloth fibers with blood and compared those with that of the Turin Shroud. The two samples were obviously different. McCrone also gathered more conclusive data that supported his discoveries. McCrone’s data suggested that the...Turin Shroud was fabricated in 1355, which dates the shroud to a year before it was first discovered. He explained that there was a demand for many shrouds, and the Turin Shroud was not authentic and dated from 1325. McCrone put a lot of effort into his study of the Turin Shroud, but his findings have met much opposition. “People, who I hear from over the Internet, believe it is the real Shroud that covered Jesus,” McCrone said. He receives on average two letters a day insisting that his findings are false.

McCrone’s data suggested that the Turin Shroud was fabricated in 1355, which dates the shroud to a year before it was first discovered. He showed the group similar images made by artists in the area during that time period. According to McCrone, for an artist of the 14th century, painting the Turin Shroud with the paints he found would not be a rare or difficult task. Although McCrone had the scientific evidence to back up his argument, many people would not accept his findings. One such critic was Father Peter Rinaldi, the man who had originally asked McCrone to authenticate the shroud. Confident that its authenticity would be confirmed, Rinaldi had no idea that McCrone would discover the shroud was a fabrication.

Many letters with the group. On the back of a postcard, someone wrote, “Old man Walter McCrone is an incompetent senile old fart who belongs in the nut house.” McCrone has not been able to remove himself from this religious controversy and describes many of the communications that he receives from religious zealots as “very uncharitable.” McCrone currently works as the emeritus Director of the McCrone Research Institute and emeritus Editor of “The Microscope,” an international journal of applied microscopy. He is a Fellow of the International Institute of Conservators and the American Academy of Forensic Science, and he is also an honorary Fellow of the Royal Microscopical Societies.

The first knowledge of the shroud was in 1356, where it was exhibited for the first time as Christ’s burial shroud. Many claimed that the shroud had to be real because artists of the fourteenth century would not know how to paint a negative image. McCrone, however, found evidence of paintings of negative images from the fourteenth century. After McCrone completed his studies, he gave other scientists some samples to confirm his findings with electron microscopes. The electron microscopes also found that the shroud was a fabrication.

McCrone has written over 400 publications on his diverse interests, including the authentication of art objects, microscopy, and forensics. His most recent book, “Judgement Day for the Turin Shroud,” was published in 1997 and explains his investigation of the Turin Shroud’s fibers to determine its authenticity.

Bring Your Resumes!
Seniors
- Meet Employers with Positions to Fill
Juniors, Sophomores, & First-Years
- Meet Employers who Recruit on Campus
- Meet Employers with Summer and Fall Internship Opportunities
Free Deluxe Ice Cream & Door Prizes

Career Fair
- Friday, March 26
- 12:30 - 3:30 p.m., Chambers Gallery

Participating Organizations Include:
Aerotek, AMS (American Management Systems), Andersen Consulting, Aon Consulting, J.C. Bradford, Buckhorn Capital Management, Carolinas Healthcare, Disability Determination Services, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, The Financial Group, First Union/First Place Staffing, INFONXX, International Paper, Milliken, New York Life Insurance, Peace Corps, Pfizer Pharmaceutical, Philadelphia Center, Providence Day School, Research Triangle Institute, Royal SunAlliance, Schneider National, TCS Management Group