THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

CROSSWORD

The Davidson College Theatre & Speech Department’s production of Cabaret shines

BY SETH DAVIS
Arts & Living Editor

Opening night of Cabaret displayed an energetic cast and a charged performance. The final performance over a week later showed
an experienced cast who put on a polished, refined show. With performances on October 28-31 and November 3-7, the Davidson
College Department of Theatre and Speech provided ample opportunity for all to see their wonderful production of the two-time Broadway
hit Cabaret.

First a hit in the late 60s, and then last year on Broadway, Cabaret is set in Berlin, Germany, three
years before Hitler’s appointment as Chancellor of Germany. The musical dramatizes the tensions besetting German society at the time. The
Kit Kat Club, in which much of the action occurs, acts as a sort of foil to the reality of
the drudgery and growing oppression in Germany around 1930.

The dramatis personae of the Cabaret scene are unique and enigmatic figures. Take, for example, the Master of Ceremonies character,
played by junior Matthew Moretz. Lacking a name, carrying a seemingly shifting identity, this character seems at home in the
ribald Kit Kat Club, but at other times we see him poignantly staring from overhead at the old couple of
Fraulein Schneider (freshman Anna Jensen) and Herr Schultz (senior Chase Bringardner). Moretz pulled off the ambiguities of the character beautifully,
keeping the audience, at every turn, from pinning down a definition of his character.

One character delights in proclaiming herself mysterious. Sally Bowles (senior Susie Schuhart) is the Englishwoman who works at the Kit
Kat Club. She is strong-willed and independent. Some of her numbers are highlights of the musical, and Susie performed these
with vitality and emotion. Though by virtue of her German major Susie might have been equipped to play a German
in the musical, she pulled off Sally’s British accent wonderfully.

Good performances were set alongside the questions and shocks that abounded in Cabaret. Sally’s love interest is Clifford Bradshaw, who
was played by junior Nate Leachman. He is concerned with the world around him, yet he still revels in the
nightlife at the Kit Kat Club. Like most of the central characters in Cabaret, he has his contradictions. Nate played
Clifford with a sense of wide-eyed innocence set alongside a desire for worldly pleasures, skillfully holding each and retaining the
audience’s belief in the humanness of Clifford’s character.

The myriad of great musical numbers in Cabaret were performed by the Davidson cast with vitality and style. In short,
this cast did the material justice. They had the help not only of director Anne Marie Costa, but also Scott
McKenzie, the guest artist who worked as music director for Cabaret. The cast of the musical was also fortunate to
have the aid of the talents of two other guest artists: Barbara Howse-Diemer, who worked as choreographer, and Linda Lindsay,
who worked as costume designer.

Musically and dramatically, this production of Cabaret was a success. Anyone sitting in on one of the shows would have
heard the audience's laughter and applause.

---

Across
1. On a caffeine buzz
6. “Whoops!”
10. Golf club
14. Integra maker
15. Roman fiddler
16. Take a nap
17. “All I Wanna Do” singer
19. Double reed
20. Hard, like bread
21. Spot in a car
22. “Night Swimming” group
25. Individual
26. Peter Cetera group, formerly
28. 8-bit game system
29. Seinfeld character
31. Bone constituent
33. Catcher Yogi
34. Current veep
35. Stuff in
38. Feed the kitty
39. Jerk forward

Down
1. Existed
2. German "I"
3. Regret
4. Messes up
5. Florida beach
6. Sam or Ben
7. Not there
8. Spanish gold
9. In what way
10. Buddha statue, for example
11. The Princess Bride
12. Atmospheric layer
13. Requires
18. Street
21. Refuse entry
22. Refuse entry again
23. Figure skater Sokolova
24. “American President” actor
26. Freight
27. Oak or Elm
30. Singer Caraand applause.

40. Newsweek competitor
31. The Count of _ Cristo
3. This year the Davidson College Department
41. Pour
32. Group of eight
5. of Theatre & Speech couldn’t have picked a better
42. Choir voice
34. Sea birds
* musical nor could they have prepared and per-
43. Kids’ bricks
36. Spanish loves
formed it more skillfully. 1999, will, I hope, prove
44. Give a hard time
37. Plateaus
to be a year in which the performing arts at David-
46. Godzilla’s rival
39. Alan or Cheryl
by Matthew Moretz as the son meet the challenge raised by the cast of Caba-
47. __ Miserables
43. Spock’s adjective
Master of Ceremonies ret.
49. Commercials
45. Head part
50. Wilbur or Snowball
46. Soccer player Hamm et al.
51. Poet Eliot et al.
47. Spill the beans
Chuck Davis delights
54. Late show host Kilborn
50. Stalks and consumes
56. Calendar abbreviation
53. “quam videri”
57. Frasier’s brother
54. Family group
Davidson with his African-
55. Spit
63. “Fine.”
57. Head motion
64. Directed
58. 1950s president
American Dance Ensemble
66. Bears’ homes
60. World Wide Web
67. Grad school exams
61. Asner and Mister

By Ky Le Erickson
Staff Writer

sponse. The session served as an introduction to both the group and the culture. The evening explained to the audience
the significance of the Bantaba and the ceremonial specifics. Two modern dances followed this. One which utilized the entire dance
ensemble and the second which was performed solely by the dancer Monique A. New- specifics of both the drums and
the dances were concluded with volunteers from the audience joining the ensemble on stage for the final dance. The evening
began with a 45-minute warmup dance session and concluded with a series of African line dances.

“Agoe!” Hope you all were listening. If you were you should have responded “Amay.” At least you would have had
you gone to the Chuck Davis African American Dance Ensemble. Davis was the fresh- across the stage of Love Auditorium.
The strong women who have been positive influences in life. This was followed by a drum segment. The drummers then
stayed on stage for the last number. This dance was performed in the Balante style. The Balante is a dance
and music style of Senegal, in West Africa.

The group arrived at Davidson on Wednesday afternoon and their residency lasted until Saturday night when they put on their
African Dance performance. The evening began with a blessing of the Bantaba by Davis. At the conclusion of the blessing
Davis in place and strives to bring his/her knees up above his/her chest. Thursday night the group put on both
a drumming workshop and another dance workshop. The group also created a Bantaba, the African phrase for dancing ground.

For those who attended the week's activities, the Chuck Davis African American Dance Ensemble provided a valuable cultural example. The
use of both modern and traditional dance styles and through the opportunities to get to know the dancers allowed for
a first-hand look and an engaging experience. The group closed their stay at Davidson on Saturday. They began their stay
at Davidson on Wednesday night with a dance workshop for those who wanted to attend. Some Davidson students were present
and many came up from Charlotte to be able to experience the Bantaba. Davis did a wonderful job of explaining
the significance of every movement and every response.
