*THE DAVIDSONIAN*

ARIS & Bela Fleck & the Flecktones coming to Love Auditorium this Friday

By Kirk WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer

On Friday night, February 5, Bela Fleck & the Flecktones will bring their jazz/fusion/pop/cosmic/bluegrass act to amaze and astound all that are lucky enough to get a ticket to the 8:00 show in Love Auditorium. It’s usually difficult to categorize the genre of a particular musical group, and the Flecktones are no exception to that rule. This is especially apparent in the fact that they hold the record for being nominated for Grammy Awards in the most categories. Over the band’s ten-year career, they have been nominated for eight Grammys (including two this year). The categories in which the Recording Academy has attempted to define them are pop, jazz, bluegrass, spoken word, and country. They won their only award in 1997 for the Best Pop Instrumental Performance for "Sinister Minister" off the “Live Art” album.

Besides the numerous Grammy nominations, the Flecktones have also been honored with many other awards, including Best Jazz Group by the Playboy Reader’s Poll (thus why you might “See Bela in Playboy”). Like any great bluegrass musician, they have also contributed heavily to the success of many other artists, either in concert or in the studio. They have toured with Phish, Dave Matthews Band, Sam Bush, and many others. Bela has been featured in recordings by everyone from the Dave Matthews Band (on “Before These Crowded Streets”) to Garth Brooks (on his new live disc).

For most of the life of the band, it has been composed of the trio of Bela (pronounced BAY-luh) Fleck, Victor Lemonte Wooten, and Vic’s brother, Future Man. Throughout that time, they have always rotated in and out various other musicians, although now it appears that they have decided to keep the latest addition, Jeff Coffin, to make it one crazy quartet. Each musician is a master in his own right, so there is no weak link in the group.

Bela Fleck plays a banjo that makes you want to forget all preconceived notions of a hillbilly sitting on his front porch picking (unless, of course, they play their cover of the Beverly Hillbillies theme song). He grew up in New York City and had a difficult time breaking into the music world since his banjo was not as conventional as a guitar or horn. However, his first big break came when he joined the New Grass Revival in the early eighties. Then he played shortly with the band Strength in Numbers (including Jerry Douglas who performed here in November) before creating the Flecktones. He has changed the way that people look at the banjo and proved that a banjoist can be respected outside of the country and bluegrass realm. He was awarded the Best Miscellaneous Instrument award by Jazziz and the JazzTimes. If he keeps this up much longer, they will be forced to create an individual category for the banjo.

The base (no pun intended) of the Tones rhythm section is the Bass Player of the Year (according to Bass Player Magazine), Victor Lemonte Wooten. By the time he was eight years old, he was honing his skills playing at the nearby Busch Gardens theme park in Williamsburg, VA, and playing with his four brothers in The Wootens. The things that Vic does on the bass are indescribable and must be witnessed to believe. Fortunately, for those who get there early enough, you will get to see up close the man that esteemed music critic Vic Garbarini calls “the Bach of the bass.”

Victor’s brother’s name is Roy Wooten, but he is more affectionately known as the Future Man. The reason why he was given this name is because he brought the technology for his instrument, the Synthaxe Drumitar, back from the future. This one-of-a-kind instrument creates almost all of the drum and cymbal sounds that can be heard throughout the show, as well as throwing in the occasional odd sound. These off-the-wall noises can be voices, or whistles, or horns, or whatever he can think up. Future Man also is the lead vocalist on the few songs that are not instrumentals.

The latest addition to the Flecktones lineup, Jeff Coffin, brings his many years of experience and a handful of saxophones into the mix.the fray. His contributions can mostly be felt on the new tunes that were written for the Flecktones' latest album, “Left of Cool.” Watch out for a song where he will pull out two saxophones and play them both at the same time! No matter how astounding their music is when heard on a CD, you just cannot replicate what is heard in concert. The things that these four guys do on stage will blow your mind and this is definitely a show not to be missed. Tickets are going quickly and with upcoming articles in the Charlotte Observer, Creative Loafing, and other publications, they will disappear soon. The show begins at 8:00 PM in Love Auditorium. Because this is a general admission show and we want students up front, the doors open for students at 7:00 and then at 7:30 for everyone else. So, if you want to be way down in front, then I would suggest getting there right when the doors open.

www.belafleckandtheflecktones.com

A Summer of Service
LIVING TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1999

Crossword Solutions: Could you read it?

By Brian CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

This week’s tree, the Chinese Evergreen Oak (Quercus myrsinifolia), is covered with brilliant, green leaves even though winter abruptly reminds us that it isn’t yet finished. There are three Chinese Evergreen Oaks on campus. You've passed these three beauties on your way up the hill or to class hundreds of times. Start stopping and giving them a closer look. From a distance, the leaves of this tree make it look more like a peach than an oak. Many varieties of oak leaves are thick and waxy, often with distinctive lobes, but the Chinese evergreen oak has long, oval-shaped leaves with saw-like teeth along the edge. While most oaks drop their leaves in the fall, this one stays green throughout even the coldest of winters. Native to China and Japan, this species has adapted to conditions as harsh as those in the Himalayas. Most evergreen trees have very slender leaves or needles to help conserve water, but the leaves of the Chinese evergreen oak are fairly broad. The bark and acorns of this tree are distinctive. Their appearance calls up memories indicative more of Africa than Asia. The bark is quite smooth as compared with other oaks. It looks more like its brother the beech (you know, the one by the Commons’ patio). This bark is gray and develops darker gray stripes with age. Check out the tree in front of Cannon, whose trunk resembles a leathery rhinoceros leg. Like all oaks, these trees reproduce by dropping acorns, the hard-covered fruit attached to branches by rounded caps. What is unique about the Chinese evergreen oak is that these caps are not evenly textured, but decorated by concentric rings. These acorn caps look surprisingly like the neatly-trimmed thatched roofs of southern African rondavels (round mud huts). You can locate a Chinese evergreen oak in the area between Duke and Sentelle, where it is the only tree still with leaves. Amidst the massive magnolias and the muddy mess, two more trees are just right of the path that leads from Sentelle to Chambers. Enjoy these unique trees this week and

In Latin America
Countries Served
Projects Administered

Mexico
Honduras
Ecuador
Paraguay
Bolivia
Brazil
Costa Rica
Dominican Republic

Amigos de las Américas
Community Sanitation
Family Health Promotion
Environmental Education
Dental Hygiene
Home Improvement
Family Gardens

Every summer since 1965, AMIGOS has provided an opportunity to over 19,000 high school and college students to live and serve in Latin America.

Skills Developed
Communication
Leadership
Interpersonal
Foreign Language
Cross-Cultural Sensitivity
Management

For more info contact Jennifer Martin
Be a volunteer this summer!
Application Deadline: March 15
Scholarships Available
jmartin@amigoslink.org
5618 Star Lane, Houston, TX 77057
800.231.7796
www.amigoslink.org

...a journey in understanding a world of differences!