DAVIDSON SPECIAL ELECTION ISSUE 1999

Category II Election Candidates

This coming Monday, the campus will have an opportunity to vote for the 1999 student leaders. The Elections Committee and the staff of the Davidsonian have created this special election issue so that the candidates may introduce themselves. Each candidate was required to answer questions that were posed by the Elections Committee and by those who currently hold the office. We at the Davidsonian hope that this helps you decide on the best candidate in each respective race. Enjoy and remember to vote in either the Commons or in Chambers.

—John A. Dunwoody, Editor in Chief

SGA PRESIDENT

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?
2. How do you propose to keep the student body motivated and involved in the agenda of the Student Government?
3. What is your biggest weakness and how do you feel you can use this to best serve the student body?
4. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What is your stance and how will you deal with it?
5. What kind of Davidson would you envision for the future and how might you work toward that goal?
6. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate for the job.

TRAVIS BARTON

1. My leadership experience covers the spectrum of my involvement on Davidson Campus. Currently, I am a Rusk vice president, co-chair of the SGA Safe Rides Committee (the Vamonos Van), an aerobics instructor, and a resident advisor. To me, leadership is the ability to bring about change and improvement. Among my accomplishments are the addition of new equipment to the aerobics facility, an increase in student use of the Vamonos Van, the elimination of a Van rider fee, and the introduction of a new approach to residence life programming.

2. The best way to keep the student body motivated and involved in the agenda of SGA is by example. I have the energy and enthusiasm not only for the position of president, but for people in general. This year, SGA has made some incredible accomplishments such as the reorganization of SGA intercouncil structure, the inclusion of student representatives on the Academic Policies Trustee Committee for tenure, and the push for recognition of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. I believe that the combination of experience within the Senate body and my energy will yield another year of success.

3. Like many Davidson students, my biggest weakness is overcommitment. However, I have taken steps in advance to ensure that I will have the time necessary to devote to the position of SGA President. It is no small office, and no small time commitment. Therefore, I have lightened my course load, cut back on my aerobics classes, terminated my work-study, and have relinquished my Vamonos Van responsibilities to my co-chair. I know that “just enough” time won’t cut it. I am prepared to dedicate myself to the job of President regardless of how much time it takes.

4. I believe that the most pressing issue facing the SGA is diversity. I want more than just a campus with different races, creeds, and religions; I want a campus whose diversity represents a respect and celebration of its differences. The recent forums, discussion groups, and seminars on diversity issues are a great start but there is more work to be done. The SGA can increase the intensity of these efforts by including community, curriculum, and service in a more unified push.

5. My dream of Davidson is one of involvement. A crucial part of education takes place outside of the classroom. I want to see students take an active role in their community whether it is on campus or beyond. I envision the SGA not only as a mechanism of reaction to student issues, but as a provider and facilitator of student growth by creating opportunities for involvement. The SGA can work towards this goal by enhancing the interaction of faculty, administration, staff, and students through SGA’s committee framework.

6. The position of SGA president takes more than a working knowledge of Davidson. It takes energy, drive, and...Enthusiasm. I have the motivation to get it done and the commitment to do it well. Above all, I believe that I possess that quality which is most important to the job of SGA president: Spirit.

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?
2. How do you propose to keep the student body motivated and involved in the agenda of the Student Government?
3. What is your biggest weakness and how do you feel you can use this to best serve the student body?

1. Currently, I serve as the Junior Class President and have also held the positions of Sophomore and Freshman Class President. I am a member of the Student Conduct Council and for the past two years, I have been the Chairperson of the Auxiliary Services Council, which deals with the Commons, Outpost, Union Café, laundry, etc. Holding these positions, as well as being the Hall Counselor for 1st East Belk, have helped me to learn how to lead, communicate, listen, and set and achieve goals as a team player.

4. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What is your stance and how will you deal with it?
5. What kind of Davidson would you envision for the future and how might you work toward that goal?
6. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate for the job.

Not enough; it must be seen to completion. For example, last semester I wrote a resolution about some student concerns in the Union Café. These requests were not answered when the resolution was passed but rather several weeks later when I continued to speak with Auxiliary Services. Also, look at the high amount of student initiative that was required to convince the college to recognize MLK Day. This need to see resolutions to completion relates directly with a need for a continued increase in senator accountability.

2. Open communication, willingness to listen, enthusiasm, and being approachable and readily available are the primary ways to keep students involved and motivated in the SGA agenda. I believe I have these qualities and also believe that if students have any problems or questions, these concerns must be alleviated and solved by the SGA. It is the SGA's full responsibility to improve Davidson College for the student body and tangible results will keep all highly motivated and involved.

3. The SGA President must deal with many different student concerns at one time. As an individual, I tend to commit myself and focus on one primary task until it is completed. However, my past experiences as class president have allowed me to work towards expanding my focus to several different agendas.

4. The most pressing issue facing the SGA is seeing resolutions to completion and following up on them after they are passed by the SGA Senate. In previous semesters, the SGA has passed several resolutions that are then sent to the faculty or administration. Yet, the SGA must push and persuade the proper authorities to recognize and respond to these requests for changes. Just passing a resolution is not enough; it must be seen to completion.

5. I envision a Davidson that is a more diverse community based on common understanding and togetherness. A Davidson overflowing with pride and optimism. I think this type of Davidson can be reached by continuing to push for what students desire. Again, the recognition of MLK Day comes to mind as students wanted this day recognized, pushed for this goal, and we were successful. Any policy I have pushed for or achieved on SGA is directly from a problem or concern a friend of mine brought to my attention. We as students and an SGA must realize the problems with Davidson and take the necessary steps to correct them. Only then can we grow as a school and a community.

6. I have the experience, knowledge, and energy to serve the Davidson student body well. My past positions on SGA and my position as Hall Counselor have taught me how to communicate, take initiative, put plans into action, and achieve goals. Also, I have learned how to listen, compromise, and realize the need for assistance from others. I am highly motivated about the job of SGA President and am passionate about serving the Davidson community. I will work for all the improvements, big and small, that will make Davidson College better as a whole.