_ THE DAVIDSONIAN _

A mere tackle, even if it was at the end of a 30-yard gain, seemed more than enough reason for a Falcon to “bust a move.” NFL fans had to stomach an unprecedented level of swagger from a team that has won its division only as many times in the past forty years as the House of Representatives’ Judiciary Committee has drawn up impeachment papers against a president. Pass the Tums?

Thankfully, such audacity and self-glorification have not yet trickled down into athletics at Davidson. We hope it never will. The women’s basketball team hosted The University of the South at Belk Arena last month. And though our Wildcats ran away with the game, their excitement was dignified rather than pretentious, team-oriented rather than individual. When the 12th-man lineup was in the game in the closing minutes, the starting five weren’t lounging on the bench with their shoelaces untied and engaged in conversation about post-game plans. They were on their feet, cheering for the girls that so often were the ones just outside the glow of the spotlight. When Carter Kelly threw up a shot for her potential first basket of the season, the projected Southern Conference Player of the Year (Jen O’Brien) and four or five other stars were leaping in the air on the sideline with anticipation. Coach John Filar commented after that game, “It’s such a message about what this program’s about. This program is about being a family out there. And that’s how they really take to each other. It means the world to me to see somebody that comes off the bench getting ready to put off a shot, and for me not to be able to see the shot because there’s six players in front of me getting ready to explode. It just tells you what a close group they are and how much they really pull for each other.”

Over the next two weeks, the Atlanta Falcons will have a white-hot spotlight on their squad. The story could be a wonderful one of sporting heroism—a young team rallies around an ailing coach to lift their franchise to new heights. But that story could be lost if these bright young stars choose flamboyance over dignity, flashy dance moves over graciousness, and arrogance over humility. Perhaps, over the course of the next few weeks, the Atlanta Falcons could learn quite a bit by watching a group of athletes who strive enthusiastically for excellence without arrogance, and place team unity over flashy self-promotion. I’m sure the Davidson basketball coaches would be more than happy to furnish tickets.

Responses and letters to the sports editors are welcome. Please address to Alison Kalett and Mike Anderson.

NO GIMMICKS EXTRA INCOME NOW! ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week Free Details: SASE to International Inc. 1375 Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 11230

$ juice QA ( | are quick, healthy, and TASTE GOOD. Just what you need in between studies. In appreciation to our regulars from DAVIDSON, we have created a new smoothie called the "WILDCAT". Haven't tried us yet, COME ON IN! Our drinks

WILDCAT NEW SMOOTHIES! OPEN EARLY... CLOSE LATE! LOCAL SMOOTHIE WEST COAST-STYLE SMOOTHIE BAR REAL FRUITS & JUICES COUPON NOT NEEDED (Special price 1/20 thru 1/27) Not valid with other offers. TRY A WHEATGRASS SHOT smoothies fresh juices bakery california juice co... it's a way of life! (Exit 28, Hwy 73, in front of BiLo. 895-7696)

SPORTS COMMENTARY:

Afternoons in December... Thoughts on Michael, the NBA, and why we play

By Seth Davis Sports Columnist

There is a little park not too far from my home in Tampa with a single concrete basketball court at one end. The court is small, and the two baskets are roughly ten feet off the ground. The rims have a trampoline effect, where every missed shot bounces off the rim twice as far as expected. Over the break, I went down every afternoon to the park,Partially deflated basketball in hand, to shoot around. Sitting in the Outpost a few nights ago, I smiled as I watched the highlight reels of the highest profile NBA professional of all time. He has walked on air and stopped at the height of his flight. Until another comes along who makes us believe in perfection, Michael Jordan will be remembered as The One. I will miss, most of all, the ease of his talent. From his fade-away to his defensive intensity, Jordan amazed. I think he leaves an NBA whose appeal has been soured, not just by a strike, but by a break with the essence of sports. So I remember Michael, but I worry about the future of the game he leaves.

Sports have an unusual and important place in the heart of America. They are more than entertainment. We have given them this importance. We have made the field of play a field of heroes. The modern-day King Arthur in America does not wear a crown. He wears a jersey, has a number, and a face shown across the land on television shows, billboards, and cereal boxes. There is nothing intrinsically valuable about throwing a spherical object through a slightly larger, circular hoop. But to basketball, and to sports in general, we attribute meaning. Granted, when the game is won or lost we do not mourn as if a battle has finished. In great contests, however, there is a moment when all senses are focused, eyes intent on the television screen as the final, heroic effort is launched towards the rim or the final pitch is hurled towards the waiting batter. Sometimes the shot falls through and sometimes the pitch gets past.

I believe that there are others like me. We love sports not for the flashy personalities, but for the pure nature of it. Sports allow us to create a reality, to attribute importance to essentially unimportant activities, and to live (though indirectly) in the exciting world we have created. I think professional basketball has lost something. It is intensely popular and highly athletic. But I can’t cheer for a team anymore. Employment in the NBA can be a transitory existence, with players switching teams regularly. Take for instance the Orlando Magic, who, in the not too distant past, made it to the NBA finals. Today’s team has little resemblance to that squad. Though teams are based in cities, I find myself cheering for players. I cheer for heroes, for the athletes at the highest level of skill and ability. With teams broken up regularly, it is hard to really throw one’s support behind a team.

That is not a great tragedy. With the NBA season on hold this year, I have watched a college season of great entertainment. Many college superstars leave early for the money of the NBA. Even though the college ranks contain some of the best players in the world, most are not superstars and most will not play at a higher level. That is okay. Although I enjoy seeing the athleticism of the best, sports are about something different. Every afternoon over break I went down to the park to play ball. Once in a while I smiled like a kid as a shot traveled with the softest whisper through the net. Sometimes, on the days when nothing was falling, I would stop and look around. One day, with the shadows lengthening under the setting sun, a ten-year-old kid ran up to shoot free throws. He toed the line, went through his routine, which consisted of several emphatic two-handed bounces of the basketball. He flexed his knees and released the shot. It bounced hard off the rim back to him. He frowned, wiped his hand across his brow, went through his routine again, and shot. As the ball began to rotate, he smiled.

VERMONT’S FINEST * ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604
Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or shake frozen yogurt for birthday or graduation celebrations, study breaks, exam time or just for fun! Fee waived for Davidson College Students.