12.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

“The Vandals” took the VAC by storm

By Setu Davis

Arts & Living Editor

The Belk Visual Arts Center hosted an unusual production this past Thursday, September 16. The VAC was the site of
a dramatic reading of Professor Alan Michael Parker’s newest book of poetry, The Vandals. Parker, whose work has received acclaim
from the literary world, was in attendance, as was a number of Davidson College faculty, students, and members of the
public. The production was directed by 1986 Davidson graduate Anne Lambert, who works as the Director of Development for North
Carolina Dance Theatre, which will be putting on a production inspired by Davidson professor Herb Jackson’s artwork. The cast consisted
of Chip Cauldwell, Ed Ellington, Nicia Feldman, and Joanna Gerdy. Chip Cauldwell teaches drama at Piedmont Open Middle School, and,
in addition to working in Talley’s Folly and An Evening of Sam Shepherd, is a 1994 teaching fellow at the
Folger Shakespeare Library in D.C. Ed Ellington is a Davidson junior who won the Theatre Department's Best Male Performer last
year. You may remember him from Tales of the Lost Formicans. Nicia Feldman works in the Charlotte area. She graduated
from Winthrop College, just down the road in Rock Hill, SC. She has worked in numerous productions in the area,
and is also the co-founder of an improv comedy troupe. Joanna Gerdy, who works in Charlotte as an educator, actor,
and director, has done different productions of Shakespeare and has also directed a production of The Lion, the Witch, and
the Wardrobe.

These four actors worked to combine poetry and dramatic expression in “The Vandals: A Staged Reading.” The production was characterized
by two elements: voice and use of space. Parker’s The Vandals is a series of poems in couplets that detail
the adventures of the Vandals, a semi-barbaric tribe from European antiquity transported from their time to ours. The Vandals crash
and bash their way through restaurants and malls, leaving in their wake a mirror for anyone (even us?) to look
in. When the reading of The Vandals became a performance by the Vandals, the poems’ meanings were brought out from
the page. It is true that the production was an interpretation of Parker’s work, and that the meanings expressed on
stage may have been different from the meanings intended by the poet.

The VAC provided Anne Lambert and her cast with space. The actors could vault upon staircases, speak from second-floor balconies,
and dart in and out among the potted trees on the ground floor. The Vandals need their space to roam.
The VAC certainly provided them with that space. In the unique combination of written word and spoken word, “The Vandals:
A Staged Reading” was intriguing and entertaining. Poetry brought into the world of drama can be a dangerous undertaking (or
is it the other way around?). It is dangerous because it can fall flat. “The Vandals,” however, rose.

---

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY’S

Explore our Earth and its dynamic ecosystems!

Columbia University offers environmental immersion programs at its beautiful Biosphere 2 Center campus in the Sonoran desert of Arizona. High
school seniors and undergraduate students can enroll in the challenging Biosphere 2 curriculum to earn college course credits.

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM Offerings:

- EARTH SYSTEMS FIELD SCHOOL I & II
- Session I — 6 weeks: June-July 2000
- Session II — 4 weeks: July-August 2000

- BIODIVERSITY INSTITUTE

- EARTH SEMESTER
- 16 weeks: January-May 2000
- September-December 2000

- UNIVERSE SEMESTER
- 16 weeks: September-December 2000
- Summer 2000 program also being planned
