2. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson hosts annual volunteer fair
Burcin Harbin
Staff Writer

Davidson College’s annual Volunteer Fair was held Wednesday, January 17th in the Chambers Gallery with representatives from various campus service
organizations attending. The Fair was designed to make students aware of Davidson’s service projects and also to help the various
programs recruit volunteers. From 11 am to 3 pm, students roamed the gallery floor, talking to various people, perusing the
offerings, and signing up for a wide variety of programs. Some of the groups represented at the Fair came from
Charlotte, while others were campus organizations anxious for new volunteers to help make second-semester projects a success. The Davidson Department
of Parks and Recreation, the Lake Norman YMCA, and the Ada Jenkins Center, a popular place for Davidson students to
offer their service, were all present. Also, there was a variety of elementary schools from the surrounding area that were
looking for students to tutor or help during after-school programs. Senior citizens centers, such as The Pines, were also looking
for energetic Davidson students. The YMCA was looking for basketball referees, gymnastics assistants, scorekeepers, and daycare workers. If athletics did
not appeal to some, one could stroll to the next table and sign up to help pregnant teenagers. Other opportunities
included a chance to build for Habitat for Humanity, aid students as medical volunteers, work with children, get active in
the community, or fight hunger. Many of these programs are sponsored by Reach Out, a student organization that “seeks to
promote awareness of the needs of others and to provide opportunities to address those needs.” Reach Out, a member of
the Davidson College Service Council, played a crucial role in organizing the Volunteer Fair and welcomes comments and inquiries from
students about service opportunities. Reach Out can be reached via the Davidson College home page or by contacting any of
the Reach Out Officers, including President Emily Setina; Vice-President, Britta Toleman; Treasurer, Gee Muwwakkil; Secretary, Kerry Brophy; Publicity, Ainsley Hines;
or Member-at-Large, Jill Williams. Student involvement in the organizations was high, and there was also a variety of opportunities, which
afforded every student the chance to serve in one capacity or another.

Community Policing Program
Laura McCandlish
Staff Writer

The typical Davidson student’s contact with the campus police occurs only in times of crisis, when the student is in
trouble or needs to report a criminal incident. Davidson’s new Community Policing Program, initiated by the head of campus police,
Officer Sam McElvey, should assist in developing more of a partnership between the student body and the police. McElvey, the
Public Safety Director, was instrumental in starting this program which parallels a similar initiative the local police department is launching
in the town of Davidson. The campus police will divide Davidson’s campus up into sectors, and a particular officer will
be assigned to a zone to achieve closer contact with the students living in the designated area. Zoning was based
on a breakdown done by the Residence Life Office. For example, Duke, Cannon, and Sentelle dorms make up one area.
The assigned officer will organize crime prevention programming for students in his designated zone, working with hall counselors and resident
assistants to arrange meetings that discuss issues of interest to that particular living area. McElvey hopes the program will establish
“less distance and closer, more personal contact between students and their community police officers.”

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid would like to thank all those students and professors who helped our office
in numerous ways last semester and during the winter break. Special thanks go to the outgoingTour guide coordinators, Jesse Smallwood
and Jay Scanlan; outgoing host coordinators, Erin Fitzgerald and Pete Thomson; our host coordinators, Brian Cooke and Cashion Drolet; all
of our work-study students; and Page Griffen, Priscilla Bannerman, Anita Keteku, and Sibeso Yeta for their help over the winter
break. We look forward to continued campus-wide support. Warm wishes for a great semester ahead!

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid
Davidson College

...so they can share concerns for public safety.” This sort of public safety initiative has been implemented in cities across
the country, so McElvey looks for success from the program both on Davidson’s campus and in the town itself. “It
is a proactive approach to crime prevention and law enforcement,” he said. The officers plan to do a survey of
their designated zone early in the process so they can assess the safety concerns of the area. The Community Policing
Program “will piggyback other things, such as the Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) program,” McElvey explained. “We're trying, with the Davidson
police, to do some cooperative training and share resources. We hope to continue that and maintain a relationship with the
town police as we go along.”

Officer Dickie Fleming is in charge of the zone that includes the Irwin, Acres, Knox, Pax, and Lingle residences. Fleming
hopes to accomplish what has not been achieved in the past. “It’s not that we can solve every problem, but
we would at least like to go to bat for the students to see if we can help them,” he
said. According to McElvey, the essential building blocks to the program will be in the relationships it will build. “Our
purpose is to have officers out of cars and solving problems in the community through a partnership,” he said.

Launch YOUR CAREER!
- Learn From and Network Among “Washington Insiders”
- Produce Radio and TV Advertisements in Campaign Simulations
- Compete as a team on Strategic Lobbying Plans
- Live 3 blocks from the White House and Monuments
- GW’s central location can put you on Capitol Hill or the K Street corridor of lobbyists & interest groups
in minutes.

The Graduate School of Political Management
GW is an equal opportunity affirmative action institution
For More Information And To Receive An Application:
(800) 367-4776, (202) 994-6000

They say it only takes one person to make a difference...

January 18
January
February

Davidson College Artists
Moliere's Tartuffe
Union Dinner and a Movie
Come watch "Shall We Dance" and eat Chinese food from Lotus
Friday, 7 pm
900 Room

The Acting Company will perform this satirical comedy on Tuesday at 8:15 in Love Auditorium
Free!

THURSDAY JAN. 28
TUESDAY FEB. 2
Kayak Rolling
SATURDAY JAN. 30
8:15 pm
Baker Pool

WEDNESDAY JAN. 27
Movie: Dr. Strangelove
F-Crew: Saturday Night Live
9:30 pm
Home Room, free!

MONDAY FEB. 1
Davidson Reads: more details coming soon
Senior English Majors Reading
Moliere's Tartuffe
8:15 pm
Love Aud.

FRIDAY JAN. 29
Readings by faculty writers
Outpost
7:30 pm
900 Room

SUNDAY JAN. 31
Artist Series: poetry and fiction coffee house
8:30 am-11:15 am
900 Room

Jumpin Java
Mon-Thurs
8 pm-12:30 am

Movie: Dr. Strangelove
9:30 pm
Home Room, free!

Dinner and a Movie: "Shall We Dance"
7 pm
900 Room

Jumpin Java
21-year-old night
10 pm-12:15 am
Outpost
