4. THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Levering’s book describes difference made by “Do-er” parents

By COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

When Davidson history professor Ralph Levering assures students that committed individuals can make a difference in world affairs, he can point to his own family tree for examples. Levering’s parents, Sam and Miriam Levering, spent more than 12 years of their lives convincing, cajoling, and communicating with representatives from more than 140 countries around the world to craft and implement the Law of the Sea treaty.

This devoutly religious couple who tended an apple orchard near Mt. Airy, N.C., viewed their selfless service as an achievable step toward the ultimate goal of bringing peace to the globe. Both Sam and Miriam Levering died within the past decade, but the treaty they helped implement establishes rules for maritime transit and economic uses of the oceans that should assure smoother sailing on the high seas for all times.

Ralph Levering has written a history of his parents’ determined efforts in a new book, “Citizen Action for Global Change: The Neptune Group and Law of the Sea,” which was published this summer by Syracuse University Press.

“My parents were world peace advocates,” Levering explained. “They were deeply involved with the World Federalist movement from the 1930s through the 1950s, advocating a federalist system binding all countries under a central world government with limited power.”

Levering remembers a steady stream of notable figures and enthusiastic students visiting the Levering farm throughout his childhood. His parents helped found the United World Federalist organization in 1947 in Asheville, and they were very active in peace initiatives throughout the state. Sam Levering, a Quaker, traveled the state debating the subject with figures like the famous political scientist Hans Morgenthau and H-bomb creator Edward Teller. His willingness to study issues thoroughly and their first order of business was to organize peace groups, environmental organizations, and individual legislators' interests and opinions held by national representatives.

“Conference leaders didn’t want a treaty approved by a majority vote because they believed that those who voted against it wouldn’t abide by it,” explained Ralph Levering. “My parents' biggest contribution was to help the consensus move forward.” They did that through the publication of a newspaper called “The Neptune,” and by producing more than fifty seminars for delegates that featured experts in technical issues of mining, international negotiation, and other pertinent subjects. By maintaining their neutrality on the issues, they were able to facilitate discussions and build trust among the delegates.

Their joint salary was only $12,000, but the Leverings were very frugal people. “My parents believed any money they had should be directed to the causes they supported,” explained Ralph Levering. “They didn’t rent an apartment, but saved money by living in their office. They lived on a diet of apples from the orchard and discount, week-old bread. They knew the money they saved could be used to hire assistants or otherwise further their work. People admired them because they sacrificed for their beliefs.”Contentious issues and acting as “friends of the conference” rather than lobbyists for a particular point of view, the Leverings earned the respect and trust of all delegates and acted as catalysts on many initiatives. They also worked hard at raising funds for their work at the conference and were rewarded by substantial funding and involvement from the United Methodist Church, the Sierra Club, and other groups. One major point of contention in negotiations was the insistence of Third World countries that industrialized nations share both the bounty of undersea mining and the technological know-how to achieve it. The U.S. and many other nations vehemently opposed the forced sharing of technology, and negotiations on that point were rocky and sharp. The conference finally concluded in 1982.

Please see Peace on the next page for continuation.

The Leverings believed that unilateral moves by the U.S. or any country to mine in international waters were illegal because ownership of those resources had not yet been established by international treaty. Their efforts successfully blocked the bills until the U.N.’s Law of the Sea conference formally convened in 1973. For the next nine years, until 1982, the Leverings worked at conference sites in Washington and Geneva to develop a consensus treaty, trying to reconcile the different viewpoints.

NEED EXPERIENCE? Come Join Our Team At LOGONATION! We Need An Office Assistant In Our Mooresville Office. 20–30 Hours A Week - At $8.00 Per Hour. Call Jennifer Today! 799-0612

Levering’s parents, Sam and Miriam Levering, spent more than 12 years of their lives convincing, cajoling, and communicating with representatives from more than 140 countries around the world to craft and implement the Law of the Sea treaty. Miriam Levering, a Methodist who had become a Quaker, was equally intelligent, driven, and affable. As a believer in educating for peace, she made an annual trip to the United Nations and to Washington with North Carolina high school students. During one such visit, she met some U.N. delegates from Africa who lamented the lack of a nearby place to socialize and worship. Miriam turned to her childhood church for support and led a successful movement to build a church center at the U.N. It now towers as a 20-story building at 777 U.N. Plaza.

“My parents were doers,” Ralph Levering stated. Having realized by the 1960s that world federalism was too ambitious an idea, the Leverings began searching for a cause with a better chance of success that might still promote peaceful cooperation between nations. In 1970, Dr. Frank Porter Graham, retired president of UNC and a longtime friend, told Sam that Law of the Sea, a forthcoming U.N. initiative, presented just such an opportunity. He found an opportunity to get involved through the Friends Committee on National Legislation, a Quaker lobbying group in which he long had been involved.

MAKE YOUR MARK ON CAMPUS! Sororities, Fraternities, and Clubs at Davidson College Can Find Their Group Supplies and Promotional Products In an Instant through LOGONATION!
- Stadium Cups
- T-Shirts & Sweat Shirts
- Pens & Pencils
- Balloons
- Magnets

CALL TODAY! 799-0612

A Special Davidson College Discount