@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS @

Baseball team deserves more coverage

Davidsonian Editors:

I too find it unfortunate that the Wayne Gretzky era of hockey has ended, but how is coverage of this
in the Davidsonian more relevant than coverage of the Davidson baseball team, which has had no mention in the Davidsonian
in at least the last three issues? I noticed on the bottom of the back page of this week’s edition
that Bro Crift will have some baseball coverage next week. Thank you, Bro, but where were you when the Cats
won two of three games this past weekend, with the Sunday game going to 11 innings and a freshman squeezing
a base hit past second base to win a very exciting game? In fact, where were all the students? The
baseball team diligently works every single football and soccer game each fall, and members of the team frequently attend both
women’s and men’s sporting events throughout the year. Other than the four girlfriends and one fraternity out past the outfield,
where is their student support? These players invest an incredible amount of time, energy and passion to play a Division
I sport at this academically difficult school, and I’m sure they would appreciate having some fan support - not to
mention the occasional mention in their student newspaper.

Susan Cooke
Davidson, NC

Bravo, Jesus Christ Superstar

To the Editor:

Congratulations to all those involved in the recent production of Jesus Christ, Superstar! Your performance of this challenging show was
outstanding. The level of talent was impressive, even amazing, especially from a student body the size of Davidson’s. Thank you
for your vision in choosing to produce this show and for the hours you dedicated to making it your best.

Sincerely,
Mary Ann Davis

SAE calendar project beneficial

Dear Friends,

In 1980/81 the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity began the Davidson Charity Calendar. From that beginning, almost twenty years ago, the
project grew into an annual project for the brothers. The profits from the calendar project were used to fund the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity Endowed Book Fund in our Library. The check, which soon will be presented representing the last
two editions of the calendar, will amount to $8,897. This will bring the total ‘cost value’ of the fund to
$73,412. The market value of the fund was $128,851 as of December 31, 1998. The fund annually has allowed the
Library to purchase 147 volumes for the collection. Each year that is impressive, cumulatively over the years it has been
and will be just amazing - and greatly appreciated by us at Davidson. As with all things, there is an
end. And last year’s edition of the calendar will be the last one produced. I am writing since you have
been a supporter of the calendar project in the past and because I wanted to thank you for that support...
and to let you know how well the project has done. While the project has ended, the endowment will continue
to grow as the value of investments in the endowment increase over the years... and, since the fund is ‘open
ended,’ hopefully by additional gifts over the years. These men have made a lasting contribution for good at Davidson with
this project. We thank the Brothers of SAE... and we thank you.

With all good wishes,
Sincerely,
Leland M. Park ’63
Director

Editorials

Trial by fire

In my editorial this week, I had planned to discuss several issues. I wanted to discuss Kosovo, and how little
most of us at Davidson know about it, and how much more we (myself especially) should know about it. I
wanted to discuss the shootings in Littleton, Colorado this past week which amounted to one of the most harrowing massacres
on American soil in recent memory, and the likelihood of a similar travesty ever taking place at Davidson. I wanted
to discuss how far the Davidsonian has come this year, and how much farther we have to go. But as
it is nearly 6:20 a.m. on Tuesday and the newspaper is due in forty minutes, and as I have virtually
flown solo for this issue, I must forgo the remainder of my editorial this week. You’re fortunate to be reading
anything at all. John and I will see you back next fall. Enjoy your summer, wherever you go and whatever
you make.

President Vagt, Dean Shandley, Trustees, and faculty: What happened to individual responsibility? The administration at Davidson does not like fraternities.
So much at least is evident from the new Patterson Court regulations and, in particular, the recent sanctions against the
SAEhouse. Dave Rosenberg’s point (“End the Sergeant’s Suffering” 3/23/99) is well taken: “Not only do they [the trustees and faculty]
feel The Court takes away from the academic focus of the college,” he writes, “but also they fear a small
fraternity incident might bring embarrassment to the entire community. And with them, reputation is everything.” But what exactly is Davidson’s
reputation? It is nothing if not extremely academic, as the US News and World reports yearly. The disservice is done
to our reputation not by the fraternities but by the administration who, with their overt paranoia, restrict normal student evening
activities.

Prospective students arrive here well-informed of our notorious workload and ethic; as a tour guide, I can testify that the
most frequently asked questions reflect a common concern: “Can Davidson students still have fun?” “Does the workload overwhelm your college
experience?” Indeed, I remember having similar fears when I came to visit. Until immersed in the crazy and laid-back atmosphere
of the Fiji “Islander,” I was convinced that Davidson students were unable to live out the lives of comparable students
at Middlebury (my other choice); and yes, there were countless underaged adults drinking there. Davidson loses intelligent and well-rounded students
for fear that it is only academic.

Moreover, the new PCC standards—about which Dean Shandley says “we’ve been bragging”—send a dangerous and flawed message to the student
body about personal responsibility. If a student gets alcohol poisoning, the first question is always, “Who gave him the alcohol?”
when realistically, everyone knows that any college student has access to alcohol at any time regardless of his age. Many
more underaged students do not get alcohol poisoning. Clearly, it is because they personally have exercised discretion.

The typical, canned response to the behavior of wayward students is to say that they were “victims of peer pressure.”
I learned all about peer pressure in fifth grade. “You are someone special,” Project Charlie told me, “JUST SAY NO!”
Or, as my father used to tell me, “If everybody jumped off the Empire State Building, would you jump too?”
The point is that we all face peer pressure but it is still our responsibility to make our own decisions.
Likewise, we are all aware of the dangers of long exposure to the sun; if I get a sunburn, is
it not my fault for not wearing sunblock? Therefore, even if the SAE who vandalized another fraternity (at another school
no less!) was told to do it by a group of students who just so happened to be SAEs, he,
not his institution, should be held accountable. If an individual is encouraged to believe that he is not solely responsible
for his actions, he is more inclined to misbehave.

I am concerned about a wider trend that exists in our society. Whether it is prompted by smoking-induced cancer or
by getting burned from spilling hot coffee, the tendency to blame others for personal mistakes is spreading unacceptably. Concerning the
specific charges leveled at SAE, I can only illustrate their banality by pleading guilty to them myself. I have both
taken part and made others take part in “trust walks.” In my nine years as a Boy Scout, we had
to do trust walks with our troop members yearly; and this summer I made my twelve-year-old campers complete a half-hour
long trust walk. We even used real blindfolds! Come to think of it, several exercises blindfolded are included in the
Outdoor Leadership course with Davidson Outdoors. Maybe Ed and Marla should be brought up on hazing charges too.

While I understand that Davidson is required to uphold North Carolina state laws (even if they are unjust), there are
surely ways of making a punishment fit the crime. Taking away the very place in which the SAEs eat and
socialize is an unspeakably severe punishment that should be reserved for an unspeakably severe crime. It being against state law
for a restaurant to serve a medium-rare hamburger, would a restaurant be closed down when caught doing so? The administration
at Davidson—the trustees, the faculty, Dean Shandley, and President Vagt—should consider the moral message they have sent to the student
body in removing SAE and imposing other infringements against fraternities. While they are at it, they might want to consider
the thirty SAEs whose college experience they have ruined, not to mention the rest of us who will spend that
many more nights next year at Davidson looking for a place to go out at night when there is not
one. If they can justify their decisions, perhaps they should do so for all to read in the next Davidsonian.

Jonathan Adler ’01
