M ="? G6 et tT B- oe «

Slagle marks 20 years of dedication to Davidson athletics

By Andy Lanoha
Staff Writer

No one since C.G. “Lefty” Driesell, the famed basketball coach of the ’60s, has done more for Davidson athletics than
Charlie Slagle, who in his twenty-year tenure as head coach has molded a once small, undeveloped men’s soccer program into
a nationally recognized and respected institution.

“A lot of credit should be given to him,” said Assistant Coach Jim Wright, who played for Slagle in the
early '80s and has paced the sidelines with him for the last nine years. “His energy and enthusiasm have been
directly responsible for the success of the program.”

Entering the 1999 season, the Wildcats were 188-183-30 under Slagle and had posted a winning percentage of .500 or better
10 times. This season, Slagle has picked up 7 more victories thus far and guided his team to victory against
such national powerhouses as Clemson and South Carolina, but 1992, that magical year the NCAA Division I Men’s Soccer Championships
came to town, shines as certainly Slagle’s most successful season. Slagle had been responsible for bringing the tournament to Davidson,
where it was to stay for the next two years, and helping promote the event into the national spectacle it
is today. Slagle led his team home to play in the ’92 national semifinals in our own Richardson Stadium, the
pinnacle of a Cinderella season not to be soon forgotten by the Davidson community, in which the team finished with
a 17-5-5 record and a No. 9 national ranking.

The ‘92 season was not an aberration, however, as Slagle has coached three teams to first-place regular season finishes (’83,
’94, ’95) in the Southern Conference and won two conference tournaments (’92 and ’95). His coaching ability and overall contribution
to collegiate soccer have brought Slagle national recognition, including the 1992 NCAA Division I Coach of the Year award. In
1993, Slagle was presented the Bill Jeffrey Award, which is given annually to the individual who contributes the most to
intercollegiate soccer. He has been named Southern Region Coach of the Year twice (’90 and ’92), Southern Conference Coach of
the Year a record 6 times, and he currently sits as the Chairman of the Division I Coaches for the
NSCAA Coaches Association. In 1999, Slagle was selected as one of four Division I representatives on the NCAA Men’s and
Women’s Soccer Rules committee.

That Slagle came to Davidson without an extensive soccer background only adds to the magnificence of Slagle’s inspiring career. In
fact, Slagle, a member of Davidson’s Class of 1975, wasn’t even a soccer player when he entered Davidson as a
freshman, but rather an All-American tight end out of Binghamton, N.Y. He only turned to soccer after a knee injury
ended his football career. However, bad knee and all, Slagle’s athleticism earned him All-Conference honors as a goalkeeper.

So, given his limited soccer background before taking over as coach in 1980, what is it about Charlie Slagle that
has made him so successful? The short answer: his exceptional and totally unique character. For example, Coach Slagle brings an
unparalleled enthusiasm to almost everything he does. Matt Spear, the captain of the 1992 team and now an assistant under
Slagle, echoed this sentiment, saying that he has never seen a coach more involved with his players in the game
than Slagle. “He feels every hit and every shot,” said Spear.

More than a few stories have resulted from Slagle’s “enthusiasm” on the sidelines. Spear recalled one such example of Slagle’s
famous sideline antics, describing a game against the University of Richmond in which Slagle, so frustrated with the play on
the field, walked off to a stand of nearby trees. He grabbed the trunks of two of the smaller trees,
one in each hand, and began shaking them vigorously. “Coach was hidden so that all you could see was the
tops of these two little trees shaking,” Spear chuckled. In another incident, after his team missed a shot in a
4-0 rout of UNC-Greensboro, Slagle slammed his foot down so hard that it went through the ground.

Original artwork by JerryAyers the wooden bench. The team recovered the piece of wood, signed it, and gave it to
him at the end of the year. Now, anyone who visits Slagle’s office spots the red piece of wood proudly
displayed on his wall.

Another thing that sets Slagle apart is his vision. “It was his initiative to get lights for soccer. It was
his initiative to get the NCAA tournament here at Davidson. He is a huge visionary that has made the program
what it is,” commented Wright. Throughout the years, Slagle has had to build a program that could compete with schools
that have far greater scholarship support and significantly looser admissions standards than Davidson, but he has always been able to
see the potential in players. Slagle has assembled good teams by developing the talent in kids that other coaches overlook.
Arguably Davidson’s greatest soccer player, Rob Ukrop, who led the Wildcats to the Final Four, set a school record for
scoring, and had his No. 6 jersey retired, was a Coach Slagle find. “Davidson was not my first choice school,
but Richmond and my other top choice passed me by,” said Ukrop. “Slagle pursued me so hard and had so
much enthusiasm that I felt like I was a part of the family, and I wanted to be a part
of Davidson.”

No one is more competitive than Coach Slagle, who his wife Nancy says “could be coaching tiddlywinks and work just
as hard to make ‘em champions.” Still, one could discuss Slagle’s accomplishments, his drive, his enthusiasm, or his vision all
day, but he would never come close to what Slagle values in the program and what truly makes the Coach
special. When asked about his greatest moments, Slagle recalled a slew of big wins in front of big crowds, but
when all was said and done, it came down to his players: “Watching my players grow up and become men
and enter the real world has always been the greatest experience.” For Slagle, it has never been just about winning.
“I was a player’s coach when I walked in, and I am a player’s coach now,” he said. “I believe
in the Davidson model of a student-athlete. So, I try to understand what my players are going through, and I
want to do everything that I can to make soccer a positive part of their lives.”

Besides building a soccer program up from the ground and taking it to a place of national recognition, Slagle has
become a well-liked and well-known figure on campus. For years, he could be seen roaming the campus at 5 a.m.
delivering The Charlotte Observer to students. His home has served as the “Slagle Hilton,” as Mrs. Slagle put it, for
a host of his players who have needed a place to crash for the night. Likewise, with his good humor
and a knack for storytelling, he captivates and entertains everyone he meets. Richard Terry, Slagle’s long-time friend and one of
his first players, best described Coach Slagle and his contribution to Davidson: “Charlie is a high-profile personality. People love to
talk about how fun and how funny he is. But the most important thing is that he has had a
meaningful impact on a lot of people’s lives, and his time here has been an incredible contribution to the program,
the school, and the community.” Indeed, Coach Slagle has done remarkable things for Davidson, and for his 20 years of
service to our college community, we are thankful.

“His time here has been an incredible contribution to the program, the school, and the community.”
- Former Wildcat soccer player Richard Terry on how Coach Slagle has impacted the Davidson College community over the last
20 years.

“He is the John Madden of college soccer.”
- University of South Carolina coach Mark Bearson describing Coach Slagle’s sideline antics.

“He's one of a special breed of coaches."
- Indiana University head coach Jerry Yeagley on Slagle.

Men’s swimming vs. Wingate - 4 p.m.
Women’s swimming vs. Wingate & N.C. State - 4 p.m.
October 29
Volleyball vs. College of Charleston - 7 p.m.
October 30
Volleyball vs. College of Charleston - Noon
Football vs. Hampden-Sydney - 1:30 p.m.
Men’s soccer at Richmond - 7:30 p.m.
October 31
Women’s soccer vs. Western Carolina - 1 p.m.

Bold indicates home game
All volleyball games in Belk Arena
All swim meets held in Cannon Pool
All soccer and football games at Richardson Stadium
