-Gend By: Carrie ARTHUR News Editor

On Thursday, January 28, the Gender Resource Center celebrated its grand opening for the campus from 11:30 to 1:30 in
the afternoon. Students, faculty, and staff gathered inside and outside of the Center to eat spaghetti and cake, to discuss
gender issues, and to hear drummers perform. Elisabeth Malphurs ’99, of the Gender Resource Center committee, explained that although the
Center had already hosted an open house for alumni, this opening was “more student-oriented.” The purpose of the opening was
“to get people to see where the center was and to get people familiar with it.”

The Center opened last October, and since that time, the Gender Resource Center committee has been working to gather the
necessary furniture and equipment. Even though Malphurs said that they still “don’t have everything,” the Committee did receive enough money
from the ATC and outside donations to outfit the Center. Malphurs said that the main monetary needs now are for
a computer and programming. She believes that once the Center’s basic needs are met, more programming will be possible. Still,
Malphurs said, “we’ve got a lot going on.” Professors Randy and Annie Ingram and the Student Health Leaders will be
holding office hours in the Center. The Gender Resource Center is also sponsoring a series with Career Services about gender
issues in the workplace and real world. Malphurs also hopes to continue hosting lunches at the Center on “not as
large of a scale.” She would like for different offices, eating houses, and fraternities to sponsor the Gender Resource Center
lunches, where people could gather to discuss gender issues. The Gender Resource Center’s primary goal right now is “to create
an awareness to people that this place exists,” Malphurs said. Malphurs explained that the purpose of the Center is “to
focus on gender issues” and “to address gender issues in a more well-rounded sense.” She hopes that the Center will
“add a layer of complexity” and help people “to realize that women’s issues are really community issues.”

Dr. Randy Ingram, the Center’s faculty co-advisor along with Dr. Suzanne Churchill and Dr. Kelly Chaston, decided to sponsor the
center “because I wanted to support some smart students’ hard work, and because I hope that ‘gender’ can include reflecting
on the roles ascribed to men as well as those ascribed to women.” Ingram hoped that “the GRC would be
a place for folk to have formal, academic discussions about gender and informal, personal discussions as well. The GRC could
also connect Davidsonians to the broader world—i.e., to individuals and organizations grappling with similar questions/problems/ideas.” He also wants the Gender
Resource Center to “provide stimulus and venue” for conversations about gender.

Racial legacies and learning
By: Kells HETHERINGTON Arts and Living Editor

On Wednesday, January 27, a small group of Davidson students gathered in the Chambers Gallery to view the nationwide “PBS
Town Meeting.” The program entitled “Racial Legacies & Learning” drew the support of approximately 100 institutions of higher learning. Among
the participating institutions in addition to Davidson College were the University of California-Berkeley, Duke University, Morehouse College, Tufts University, and
Wesleyan University. The town meeting took place in San Francisco, California, where a group made up of representatives from the
business, collegiate, and non-profit communities were talking with a moderator. The discussion aired live across the nation. Students at participating
colleges and universities could interact with the panel by fax, email, or telephone; however, no Davidson students interacted with the
panel.

PBS along with its member stations has already committed to doing a bigger program next year. The network has announced
ways in which the program is to be expanded through the use of multi-media software to be made available at
no charge to participating institutions. A site on the World Wide Web promoting the program “Racial Legacies & Learning” has
now been in existence for several months. The PBS site dealing with the program has now been updated with comments
from “viewers like you” and can be found by entering the address http://www.pbs.org/als/race.

In connection with the airing of the program, PBS has made available several polls conducted by the Ford Foundation. The
Ford Foundation, in a voter survey done last year, found that most Americans not only agree with the deliberate actions
taken by government in its efforts to create racial equality in society but also feel as though not enough is
being done to mitigate the problem. Many people believe that society still remains unbalanced. The Ford Foundation Polls can be
found at the previously mentioned website.believes there is a need for the Gender Resource Center because “I can certainly see
instances on campus when I wish students, staff, and faculty could talk constructively and critically about gender. But I think
the ultimate test of the GRC will be whether students think it’s important enough to sustain. It should be demand-driven
rather than supply-driven. So we’re all waiting, I think, to see whether there's a need for it.”

The first program of the Gender Resource Center/Career Services series, Women in the Workplace: Interviewing and Presenting Yourself Professionally, will
be held in Carnegie Guest House on Wednesday, February 3 at 5:30 PM.

Chess provides students with new outlet
By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

Several years ago, Davidson had a competitive chess club that attended the Intercollegiate chess tournament in New York City. The
large trophy they won is on display in the College Union. Recently chess has once again become popular at Davidson.
Sophomore Brian Cooke decided to organize a chess club in the fall. He found about forty students and one Davidson
resident who were interested in the club, and they now attend weekly meetings. Members of the club range from beginners
to players who are ranked with the National Chess Federation. Brian Cooke is president of the club which recently has
obtained official club status at Davidson. Ksenija Milutinovic is the club’s vice president, and Randy Skattum is the treasurer. The
Activities Tax Council allotted the club $850 which has been used to help buy boards, sets, books, and clocks for
the team. In the spring, a campus-wide tournament with prizes will be held for students and faculty. At their weekly
meetings, members play in casual games or tournaments. They also discuss tactics and strategy during the meetings and learn how
to play on a more competitive level. The club hopes to eventually play other schools, but their main objective for
the time is to have fun. Meetings are every Sunday from 7 to 8:30 in the Union Conference Room where
usually ten to fifteen students can be found enjoying refreshments and a good game of chess. If you are interested
please contact Brian at 6222.

Early decision results offer initial glimpse
By Carlos-Andres Lacayo
Staff Writer

January is over. The current freshmen class moves a month into its second semester, and the next class is being
assembled in the admissions office at 405 Main Street. Of the 465 students that will make up the class of
'03, 196 have been admitted early in what one admissions officer described as the most geographically diverse early decision enrollment
up to this day. Students from Connecticut to Kenya make up this year’s slightly bigger pool of Early Admission applicants,
145 of these applying for Early Decision I (November 1998), 51 for Early Decision II. The Early Decision Plan is
binding and is for applicants who are certain they want to attend Davidson. Applications for early decision are accepted, denied,
or deferred to the Regular Decision applicant pool. While the application requirements remain the same, students under the plan must
submit an agreement to enroll and withdraw other pending applications if they are accepted. As stated by Nancy Cable, Dean
of Admissions and Financial Aid, “we have in this early decision the building blocks of academic talent and personal qualities
that will bring another strong class to Davidson next fall.”

This first glimpse of the class of '03 outlines a potentially exceptional group. Their mean SAT scores were 1310, twenty
points above this year’s freshmen class. Additionally, all of those accepted rank in the top 6% of their high school
class, and 16% of them rank in the top 1%. All of them have had at least three advanced placement
courses. In terms of ethnic proportion, this year’s group proved to be similar to last year’s, but in regard to
interests, they are slightly different. Cable said, “we have in this class academic vitality, truly exceptional athletes, solid commitment to
service, and a good breadth of international experience.” The criteria for acceptance remain the same: academic vigor and achievement, good
writing skills, varied extracurricular interests, honor, character, and integrity. The advantage in applying early is the increase in acceptance rate.
40% of early applicants are offered admission, whereas 20% are admitted during regular decision. Nearly 42% of the class of
2003 is now complete. The general shape and essence of the next freshmen class will also be determined by the
remaining portion of the class. One out of five in the regular decision pool will be offered admission. Those who
choose Davidson and those who have been accepted through Early Decision will comprise this fall’s lot of fresh, new faces
on the Davidson campus.
