8 THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1999

IdnEgo — Relationship advice for friends and family, foes and lovers

IdnEgo are Freud’s psychoanalytic voices that influence all relationship decisions. Id, who represents the unconscious and licentiousness in all of
us, rarely agrees with Ego, who touts the conscious and morally-aware course of action. Tune in each week to hear
them face off against each other as they analyze your relationship and provide counsel. Want to hear what IdnEgo have
to say about your relationship dilemma? Or have any comments about their advice? Send your questions and thoughts to: AskIdnEgo@hotmail.com.
All inquiries will be kept confidential. (Please note: All advice offered in this column is purely for entertainment purposes and
should not be considered professional clinical advice.)

Dear IdnEgo,

My ego is hurting! I just found out that one of my fraternity brothers hooked up with this girl that
he knows I really like. I was out of town this weekend playing football and apparently they got together at
a party. What really gets me is that when I’ve talked about her before he has said, “I don’t see
what you see in her!” I’ve got a lot of thoughts about how I want to handle this but what
do you think?

Signed,
Pissed Off

Dear “Pissed Off,”

This is such a do wrong but Id can’t really fault your friend—actually, Id kind of likes the move. Listen,
“All is fair in love and war” — or did you forget? At this point, it’s war. You called dibs
and got screwed. Same etiquette applies here as calling “shotgun” when getting into a car. Id says revenge is sweet.
Here are a few ideas. One, the next time you run into this girl, say something like, “Too bad about
(your fraternity brother’s name) testing positive” and then just walk away. Two, if you know of someone that your friend
likes—ask her out. Even better, if your friend has recently been dumped by someone, ask out his ex. Just remember,
don’t get mad, get even.

In your best interest,
Id

Dear “Pissed Off,”

Damn! Ego just hates it when this happens! Ok—look, it’s great that you’re out there playing sports and learning how
to be a team player. Unfortunately, for you, it looks like the sports involvement literally cost you home court advantage,
and you got hammered. But the good news is it’s only half-time. You know how to compete—ask her out yourself.
Your fraternity brother doesn’t own her—in fact, he’s told you he doesn’t like her (which is a separate issue for
you to sort out with him). Give it all you have. Wine and dine her (girls love that stuff anyway).
And if she says no? Play fair and be a good sport. Forget about her—there are plenty more out there.
Chalk it up to experience, know that you’ve given it your best, don’t hold it against your friend, and trust
that losing only smarts for a while. Move on, over, and out. And, hang tough. You'll have your pick if
you’re patient.

Your friend,
Ego.

Mint Museum features blown glass exhibit

Press RELEASE

He is the American Maestro, the Pied Blowpiper of Studio Glass. Dale Chihuly is one of the three living American
artists to have a solo exhibition at the Louvre in Paris. His elegant, physics-defying shapes can be found everywhere—a visual
backdrop to the 1996 Academy Awards, suspended over the canals of Venice or prominently displayed in over 175 art museums
throughout the world. Chihuly’s designs have taken the measure of Charlotte’s Mint Museum of Craft & Design in preparation for
a 10-person team of installers. Four tractor-trailer loads of blown glass parts will be assembled into an exhibition to include
a spectacular Macchia forest, a Persian Pergola, a sea of Nijima Floats and the renowned Chihuly Chandeliers. Dale Chihuly: Installations
opens July 24 and runs through January 16, 2000, sponsored by Transolid, Inc. and AT&T, with additional support from the
Jerald Melberg Gallery, Davis Steel & Iron Company, Inc. and 107.9 FM, the Link.

The nation’s governors named Dale Chihuly America’s first National Living Treasure for his role in transforming a craft into a
vibrant art form. His hometown of Tacoma, Washington is building the International Glass Museum, accessible by the Chihuly Bridge, a
pedestrian structure replete with glass installations. The Pilchuck School of Glass, which Chihuly co-founded in 1971, attracts the world’s best
glass artists, enabling Seattle to rightfully lay claim as the New Venice of glass production. The PBS television special “Chihuly
Over Venice” was the first national broadcast in high definition television (HDTV). Everything about Dale Chihuly is outsized—his custom-built equipment,
his support staff of 130, the scale of his installations, and the spectacular forms that push the conceptual edge of
art glass beyond anything made anywhere in the world. “He’s completely changed the perceptions of what art glass is supposed
to look like, taking it out of the 19th century realm of symmetry and mimesis and into the modern.Here is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"World of abstraction," wrote art critic Frank Green. "These flowing, asymmetrical forms dramatize the nature of glass in its chaotic,
molten liquid state."

The Soda Shop Breakfast
Since 1951
Burritos
French Toast
Omelets
Pancakes
By Trey Davis

What’s Your Sign?

Across
1. Model wood
6. Cor or cotton
10. Quisenberry and Quayle
18. Pilots
19. "Whip It" group
20. Russian author born under fifth sign?
22. Pestering insect
23. Animal accompanying 10-down
24. Cures
25. Split parts
29. Breathing hole
32. Suave and Johnny
33. Kind of catalog
37. Spanish love
38. Place to find John or Joel
39. Hawkeye state
40. American symbol
42. Clear away
43. Concise
44. Centerfolds, perhaps

Down
1. Animal accompanying 28-down
2. On the safe side
3. Carson replacement
4. Chair
5. Arranges in sorts
6. Canyon
7. Quadrilateral
8. Black and white sweet
9. Little bouquet
10. Car made under first sign?
11. Stadium
12. Of ships
13. Vegas feature
14. Gold: Peter Fonda film
15. Male lead
16. From the mouth
17. Actress Home et al
21. Musical notes
24. Medicare program
25. Animal accompanying 50-across
26. Peru city
27. Sci. subj
28. Car made under second sign?
29. Mercury model
30. Floor covering
31. Bullfight yell
33. Russian planes
34. Medicinal amount
35. Pitcher
36. Repeats
38. Tavern
41. Indeed, poetically
42. Chary
44. Kind of
45. Kind of
47. Sounds like a lion
48. Large water bird
49. Baseball's Moises
50. Animal accompanying 20-across
51. Unsightly
52. Computer term
55. Alternative
56. Dark breads
57. Fake
59. Sesame Street Muppet
61. Word on a shoppe sign
62. Delete
63. Dirtiness
64. Russian no
65. Astro and King

Classic Burgers
104 S. Main St.
Eat-in Take-out

A Dale Chihuly exhibition is a theatrical experience—a series of spectacles of light, color, and cascading forms that dazzle the
eye and confound the imagination with technical wizardry. Each exhibition is designed specifically for the interior and exterior architectural space
and light at each site to allow viewers to interact with a total glass environment.

The major series produced between 1964 and 1997 represented in the exhibition include the "Macchia," brilliantly multi-colored, flower-like forms placed
on pedestals ranging from four to 12 feet in height to create a "forest" in which visitors experience the undulating
vessels from various viewpoints. The 30-foot long "Persian Pergola," an arbor with over 400 fanciful "Persian forms," immerses the viewer
in the long deep patterns of color shadows while walking underneath the arbor. The "Venetian" series, a tribute to the
art deco glass of Venice, features huge vases and bottles sprouting colored vines, leaves, and "putti," little boy figures resembling
Renaissance cupids or cherubs. Other artistic series include "Ikebana," bulbous-base forms supporting elaborate organic glass flora, named after the Japanese
custom of placing flowers specifically to honor guests. The "Seaform" series suggests the natural world and conjures visions of splendid
urchins and other fantastic sea creatures. The "Nijima Floats," the world’s largest blown-glass pieces, are magnificent orbs named after Nijima
fishing floats that often washed up on the Pacific Northwest shores of Chihuly’s childhood.

Dale Chihuly: Installations was the starting point for Chihuly’s most heralded series, the "Chandeliers." The very first chandelier was created
for the exhibition’s debut at the Seattle Art Museum in 1992 and has been superseded by works more indicative of
the "Chandeliers" featured in the 18-month, international project, "Chihuly Over Venice." The "Chandelier" is the artist’s greatest sculptural creation, reaching
12 feet or more in length and weighing as much as 2,000 pounds. An exquisite example, "Royal Blue Chandelier," is
on permanent display in the lobby of the Mint Museum of Craft + Design.

Chihuly enrolled in the first glass blowing program begun in the United States, studying under Harvey Littleton at the University
of Wisconsin (Chihuly’s Charlotte exhibition follows a retrospective exhibition of Littleton’s work at the Mint Museum of Craft + Design).
After completing a second Masters degree at the Rhode Island School of Design, Chihuly won a Fulbright Fellowship to become
the first American to study glassmaking techniques on Venice’s Island of Murano. At the celebrated Venini factory, Chihuly learned the
Italian method of working glass in a team. Chihuly returned to the Rhode Island School of Design to head the
glass and sculpture departments. In 1971 he co-founded the Pilchuck Glass School, teaching there in the summers.

Continued on next page
