a te » 2 Baseball steals two from Ga. Southern

run came on a Joe Dawson home run with two outs in the seventh. Over the last 18.2 innings, Self
has not issued a walk. “Every time he is on the mound I think we are going to win,” said
Sloan. The right-handed pitcher has also struck out 15 batters in his last 14 innings pitched. “The boy was bringing
cheddar,” said Davis. “He must have been pumping 87-88 mph this weekend.”

Yet the biggest victory against GSU (26-20, 11-12) came from the arm of junior Jamie McDonald. In the 8-6 victory,
McDonald broke a personal 15-game losing streak. “It was anyone’s game in the second game of the doubleheader, and Jamie
did everything we could ask for,” said Sloan. His losing streak might have continued without the heroics of Fritz Porter
in relief. Porter replaced McDonald in the seventh inning leading 7-6 with one out and runners on second and third.
After an intentional walk, Porter forced Georgia Southern into an inning-ending double play to preserve the lead. Parvin pitched the
ninth to record Davidson’s first save of the season, preserving McDonald’s victory. “(McDonald) has had chances to win this season
and we couldn’t get the job done for him,” said Sloan. “We finally pulled one out for him.”

Davidson baseball turned in their best weekend performance of the season, winning two of three in a weekend series against
perennial conference power Georgia Southern. The ‘Cats outhit the Eagles in each of the three games while posting 4-1, 8-6,
and 10-4 victories. The Wildcats have won four of their last six conference match-ups as they push for a trip
to Charleston with a spot in the conference tournament. The victories move Davidson (9-31-1, 8-16) ahead of Appalachian State to
ninth in the Southern Conference standings, narrowly behind VMI for the final playoff position. “We're real hot,” said junior Stuart
Sloan. “Everyone in the line-up is hitting. Our starting pitching is doing their job to keep runners off the bases,
and our relief staff is coming in and shutting the door.”

And Sloan is perhaps the hottest of them all. Over the weekend, the Wildcats’ first baseman was stupendous, collecting eight
hits in 13 at-bats including four home runs and three doubles. His weekend power surge earned him a nomination for
this week’s conference and national player of the week. Sloan currently leads the team with nine home runs and 17
doubles, while hitting a solid .325. “It was just a reaction,” said Sloan. “I saw the balls and they went.
I don’t know how I hit them. Three were off fastballs. The ball was just going out for me.”

Freshman Trae Fletcher and the big-hitting sophomore Jeremiah Parvin also hit home runs over the weekend. Fletcher’s long bomb was
his first in his collegiate career. The hitting was contagious throughout the line-up: eight and nine batters, center fielder Tom
McGintee and second baseman Cassidy Lundin, batted a collective 12-21. McGintee has raised his average 98 points in April to
.286 on a 16-34 base and scored some important runs. The Wildcat defense looked just as spectacular—two of their past
four games have been errorless. “The left side of our defense looked great,” said Coach Cooke. “We continually made solid
plays.”

Wes Self (5-7) continued his dominance over opponents from the mound. Self narrowly missed his second shutout of the season
on his way to a complete game victory. Georgia Southern’s lone run came on a Joe Dawson home run with
two outs in the seventh. Over the last 18.2 innings, Self has not issued a walk. “Every time he is
on the mound I think we are going to win,” said Sloan. The right-handed pitcher has also struck out 15
batters in his last 14 innings pitched. “The boy was bringing cheddar,” said Davis. “He must have been pumping 87-88
mph this weekend.”

The Wildcats picked up a crucial victory, thanks to the strong arms of Ryan Stroker (left) and Wes Self (right).Pair
of late-season conference victories this past weekend, making their pitch for the final Southern Conference Tournament spot. Davis could not
agree anymore. “He has been pitching so well of late. He finally got the win to prove it in the
stat book.” Davidson will play at 3:00 in Wildcat Park against Wake Forest on Tuesday before their important home stand
against Wofford College.

Men’s Hoops Team Selected to Compete in 1999 Preseason NIT
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Sports Writer

While it’s still a long, long way off, members of the Davidson men’s basketball team have already begun thinking about
spending next Thanksgiving in New York City. Madison Square Garden, to be more precise. That’s where they’ll end up if
they win two games in the 1999 Preseason NIT, a tournament they were just invited to for the first time
in program history.

“Being invited is a great honor,” says Wildcat head coach Bob McKillop. “It’s obviously a prestigious tournament,” adds junior guard
Jeff Bergmann. “I’m really excited about it,” states junior power forward Landry Kosmalski.

The tournament’s first two rounds, scheduled for November 15-16 and November 17-19, will be played on the home campuses of
various participating teams. The four teams which survive head to Madison Square Garden for the semifinal round on November 24th.
The championship game is slated for November 26th. Davidson’s exact opponent and site should be officially announced sometime in June.

“Most likely we’ll face one of the marquee teams in the tournament on their home court,” says McKillop. “That’s how
it usually tends to work.” “It’s probably either gonna be Kentucky or Maryland since they’ll want us to play someone
in the Southeast,” says Bergmann. “I would love to face Kentucky.” “I wouldn’t mind Maryland,” opines Kosmalski.

Besides Maryland and Kentucky, other top names in the tournament include Ohio State, Utah, Arizona, Notre Dame, Tulane, and Pennsylvania.
Rounding out the field are Fordham, Hofstra, San Francisco, Siena, Kansas State, Arkansas State, and New Mexico State.

All the Wildcats agree that the invitation represents a tremendous opportunity. “Only a select number of teams get this chance
each year,” says McKillop. “We intend to represent our conference well.” “Just being in this tournament is unbelievable,” insists Bergmann.
“We have a shot to make it to Madison Square Garden. By making a good impression, we can put ourselves
on the map, and earn some serious respect.” “We’re looking to gain notice and some attention,” echoes Kosmalski.

With the privilege of the invitation to the tournament comes also a great responsibility. “We’ll have to be ready earlier,”
explains Kosmalski. “We’ll have to pull everything together right away,” adds Bergmann. “But by getting motivated for this, we’ll be
able to boost our confidence early. We’ll be even better prepared to play big names like Duke in the early
part of the season. In the past, we haven’t been challenged enough in the pre-season.”

Like the other Wildcat hoopsters, Bergmann has much more than a one game-and-out scenario on his mind: “It’s not enough
just to smile about being there and frame the invitation. We need to make something of this. Hopefully as the
time draws closer, everyone will properly appreciate the meaning of it all.”

PLAYER OF THE WEEK: Wes Self
Self tossed a complete game victory giving up only one run without walking a batter as the ‘Cats knocked off
traditional conference powerhouse Georgia Southern.

Congratulations on graduation go out to the Class of 1999
Davidsonian Sports Staff:
BASEBALL
Brian Mayerhofer
Bro Krift
Stephen Cefalu
Tripp Cherry

Seniors Amanda Fleck, Linda Rothemund, and Katie Williams (who rank 1st, 2nd, and 4th on the Wildcat all-time scoring leader
list) lead the Wildcats against Duke in Durham at 7:00 PM on Wednesday evening.

THANKS FOR YOUR WORK, AND BEST OF LUCK IN FUTURE PLANS.
