To be honest, I haven’t exactly been a big fan of the mass exodus of the music community towards the
Lilith Fair-ian style of acoustic pop. Call me anti-feminist, anti-Davidson, whatever—but I would much rather hear Eddie Van Halen slap
me around with his Peavey Wolfgang and a 5150 combo than listen to Joni Mitchell look-alikes crooning about peace and
harmony. For one reason or another, my musical preferences haven’t included the likes of Sarah McLachlan, Paula Cole, and, until
a month ago, Jewel. Until a month ago, that is, because that was when I bought Jewel’s new album, Spirit
(Atlantic, 1998). I have no idea what possessed me to contradict my time-honored beliefs and to venture beyond the realm
of the Black Crowes or Zeppelin. After all, I had only heard the first single from the album, “Hands,” but
it alone did not merit my parting with $12.71 of my (parents’) hard-earned money. I didn’t even listen to all
of Jewel’s first album, the gazillion-selling Pieces of You. Everyone knows how hard it is to follow an enormously popular
debut album (see: Hootie and the Blowfish, Peter Frampton). My common sense dictated that Spirit would be a foolish purchase.
Even so, I bought it. Now, after a month of non-stop listening, I must confess, like Bob Dylan every few
years, that I am converted. Jewel blew me away with her creativity, her musical simplicity, her passion. Her album is
special because it is great in so many ways. One could simply read the lyrics sheet, or listen just to
the music, or notice the strain in her voice, to see the greatness of the album. Yet when the listener
realizes how all of these elements blend together, he or she realizes how amazing this artist is. Jewel portrays the
human soul with a depth and insight that few can match. She provides melodies that are delightfully simple, yet unpredictable.
She philosophizes—in the song “Innocence Maintained,” for example, she croons, “to be forgiven, we must first believe in sin.” Jewel
truly outdoes herself, her critics, and, dare I say, her debut record. It might be a shame that “Hands” was
the first single. “Hands” is a beautiful song, but there are many tracks on Spirit that deserve airplay. There are
seven other songs that I enjoy as much or more than the platinum-selling single! “Absence of Fear” is an especially
nice tune, even though it means I can never go to see her in concert now (listen to the track
and you’ll understand why). So then, I guess you still can’t expect to see me at Lilith Fair anytime soon,
but you can buy me a t-shirt and tape it for me... I’ll be there in spirit.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9,

The River Birch
By Brian CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

During the winter months, when so many trees have dropped their leaves, it is easier to be attentive to different
features of trees. Examples include the color and texture of bark and the intricacy of branches on campus trees. Often,
trees become difficult to differentiate without their colorful and characteristically shaped leaves. This week’s “tree of the week” is the
river birch (Betula nigra), whose peeling bark and irregular shape make it notable year-round. The river birch is the southernmost
member of the birch family in North America. It grows along streams and swamplands throughout the southeastern United States. Those
of you who paddled the French Broad River on the Odyssey may remember the river birch. It lines the river’s
shore with its leaning trunk and branches. Because it flourishes in very soggy conditions, the species is commonly planted to
prevent erosion, helping hold wet soil in place. Growing in a wide variety of shapes, sizes, and colors, the river
birch is described as one of our region’s most noticeably diverse trees. While many cultivated trees grow in consistent and
symmetrical shapes, often similar to the lollipop-shaped trees we draw as children, river birches are irregular and unpredictable. They tend
to lean at odd angles and develop multiple trunks and forks. Many tree species grow at a constant rate and
consequently look uniform when planted in rows or patterns, but river birches are more sporadic and create a diverse look
when planted together. Perhaps the most striking feature of the river birch is its peeling bark. Bark is a layer
of dead tissue that protects the stem of the tree, in particular the phloem. This layer of tissue just beneath
the bark transports nutrients throughout the tree in the form of sap. Each year, the growing stem stretches this dead
tissue. As trees age, their bark often cracks orpeels. The brittle bark becomes more and more textured as a tree
grows, which is why larger, older trees typically have the roughest bark patterns. Both the color and texture of river
birch bark change with age. Young trees have light tan and cinnamon brown coloration, which peels freely in large sheets.
With age, this bark becomes darker and more consistently brown in color. Freely peeling sheets become more irregular and the
bark peels in plate-like scales. Our campus has a number of river birches. They provide examples of all these stages
of growth. A large number of fairly young river birches are planted in rows beside the senior apartments. Two more
young trees stand on either side of the path that leads from the Baker parking lot through Hobart Park. Note
the light-colored bark that peels in sheets. There is a group of mid-sized trees on either side of Vail Commons
on the paths to Patterson Court. Notably large trees can be seen in the planters directly in front of Baker
Sports Complex, beside the traffic gate in front of Little Dormitory, and immediately behind Martin Chemistry Building. These trees grow
at strange angles and have scaly, brown bark.

Nature abounds with diversity, yet this tree helps us be attentive to the details that give every living thing personality.
We are typically desensitized to difference, seeing only that all trees dress in green or have similar brown skin. Not
surprisingly, it takes a creature that stands out to awaken us to the nuances that characterize all things. This week,
honor the uniqueness of every creature and every moment.

Eating Disorder Forum
In conjunction with the Health Center, Dr. Cole Barton, and the Student Health Advisors. If you have experience with family
members or other acquaintances who have dealt with eating disorders (from anorexia to bulimia and any other disordered eating) and
would like to educate others as to how to support sufferers, please call Georgia Ringle at X2902 for further information.
This forum will be held during either the last week of February or the first week of March, and we
would love for you to help us give a personal perspective to this problem.

On the Scene at Davidson College
Coffeehouse. Doughnuts, bagels, coffee, juice, etc. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Indoor Soccer. Why not? 7:00 - 10:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
Jumpin’ Java. Free caffeine and Triscuits. 8:00 - 11:55 p.m. at the Outpost.
Twenty-One Year Old Night. Pitchers of salvation. 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Art Exhibits. “Table to Tomb” exhibit all week. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the Belk VAC.
CROP Lunch. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Free Play Basketball. Once again, it’s free. 2:00 - 6:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
Coffeehouse. CHEAP LARD! 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Friday Afternoon Club. Beer, on a Friday afternoon? Why not? 5:00 - 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Girl Scout Troop #89. If you are lucky they might give out free cookies. I like chalet creams, myself. But
it’s a matter of personal preference. Actually, don’t show up and crash the girl scout meeting. It wouldn't be nice.
Still, it’s the biggest and the best on the scene at Davidson College! 12:00 - 11:55 p.m. in Erwin Lodge.
Chess Club. Pawns of fury. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Amnesty International. 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Wilson Room.
Jumpin’ Java. 8:00 - 11:55 p.m. at the Outpost, “America’s Palace of Stale Newtons.”

TUESDAY
Free Play Basketball. 2:00 - 6:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
Dale & Natalie/M.A.D.D. From 7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.
“Eve’s Bayou.” Get worked up for that Davidson Outdoors trip in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
Vietnam Challenge. Hmmm... 7:30 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Indoor Soccer. Jugar al futbol. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
“Eve’s Bayou.” The muck and mire gets us higher. For those of you who missed it yesterday, it’s showing again
at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

THURSDAY
New York Poets. Come one, come all. Only poets from New York. Maybe even from just the city. It’s where
the talent is. Come see New York natives strut their poetic stuff. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Hall of Fame Dinner. See the hall eat. Which hall of fame? Who knows? 4:45 - 7:15 p.m. in Vail
Commons.
Danielle Howle. Last week you saw Ben. Now see Danielle. 9:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the 900 Room.

FRIDAY
A Day At Davidson. All day. Everywhere.
Jumpin’ Java/Poetry Reading. Cigs ‘n’ poetry ‘n’ what not. 8:00 p.m. - 11:55 p.m. at the Outpost.
