‘THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING 1999

Stellar performances by cast and crew of “Romantic Comedy” engage audiences

continued from page 9

Jason and Phoebe’s love for each other is apparent, but they remain apart. During this time they write a number
of theatrical hits.

The interplay and tension between Jason and Phoebe was captured by Dan Cooke and Andra Whitt. Cooke was able to
bring the right amount of flair, restraint, and comedy to the character of Jason. Andra, the only member of the
cast with prior mainstage experience, brought the character development of Phoebe to life. Andra’s character enters the story as “P.J.,”
a naive schoolteacher, and becomes “Phoebe,” the successful playwright and novelist.

Phoebe and Jason’s relationship is highlighted and affected by Phoebe’s relationship with Leo Janowitz (Matt Strader). Strader combined a certain
comic charm with seriousness in his portrayal of the journalist. Equally important in the development of Phoebe and Jason’s relationship
is Kate Mallory (Molly Shaw). Kate Mallory’s brief appearance was made a comically memorable one by Shaw’s sharp performance.

The performance, as a whole, was a sharp one. It had some interesting surprises, like the use of a projector
in between scenes to impart information to the crowd. Time was marked on this projector by various images from events
like the Vietnam War and Watergate. These events, markers of the “world outside,” served as a contrast to the action
of the play that occurred entirely in one room and between six characters.

Even the bouncingly irritating music moved beyond its melody and functioned as a comedy for the ears. From director Dr.
Alex Pinkston to every member of the cast and crew, the producers of “Romantic Comedy” deserve praise. In front of
a small yet enthusiastic crowd in Hodson Hall, the opening night of this play testified that success is not bounded
by Broadway and love doesn’t occur without a laugh or two.

OOPS! We’re Sorry!

We, Kells Hetherington and Seth Davis, Arts & Living Editors, would like to apologize to Adah Walker. Her name was
misprinted in last week’s issue.

Coming Soon from Touchstone Pictures

Diane Keaton and Juliette Lewis in “The Other Sister”

Ron Batzdorff

“Copyright Touchstone Pictures. All Rights Reserved.”

The Other Sister

Release Date: March

Genre: Romantic Comedy

Cast: Juliette Lewis, Diane Keaton, Tom Skerritt, Giovanni Ribisi, Poppy Montgomery, Sarah Paulson, Linda Thorson, Joe Flanigan, Juliet Mills, and
Hector Elizondo

Director: Garry Marshall

Producers: Mario Iscovich and Alexandra Rose

Executive Producer: David Hoberman

Co-Producer: Ellen H. Schwartz

Story by: Alexandra Rose & Blair Richwood and Garry Marshall & Bob Brunner

Screenplay by: Garry Marshall & Bob Brunner

“In this uplifting and often bittersweet romantic comedy, 24-year-old Carla Tate (Juliette Lewis) is a slightly retarded young woman who,
after years of special education at a private boarding school, has successfully transcended many of her limitations—except her over-protective mother,
Elizabeth (Diane Keaton). When Carla graduates and returns home with dreams and ambitions, her need for personal fulfillment begins to
express itself in ways her mother is unable to accept. When she falls in love for the first time, Carla
defies her mother in order to prove that despite all appearances she has the capacity to be a responsible adult,
worthy of love and being loved. Embarking on a personal journey of self-discovery, Carla and her boyfriend Danny (Giovanni Ribisi)
set out together to find answers to some of life’s toughest challenges and to prove that sometimes an ordinary life
can be an extraordinary achievement.”

“Copyright Touchstone Pictures. All Rights Reserved.”
