THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

Student questions fielded at Griffith Street forum

President Bobby Vagt and Physical Plant director Irvin Brawley set out to clarify issues surrounding the college’s involvement in the low-income housing along Griffith Street.

By ANNA KVANVIG
Staff Writer

In an effort to clear up the facts and give students a chance to ask questions about the Griffith Street controversy, President Vagt and Associate Director of Physical Plant Irvin Brawley participated in a Campus Forum. At 9:30 p.m. on Monday, November 8, the 900 Room of the College Union was packed with students and other community members who wanted to hear the President’s view on the situation.

Vagt and Brawley both emphasized that those people who sold their homes to the college did so of their own accord. “I have never been involved in knocking on doors,” Brawley said. Brawley also gave the attendees a brief history of the residents of the homes that were moved and destroyed. One woman, Linda Connor, approached Brawley about her home. She requested that her house on Griffith Street be moved to another location and given to her friend, Carrie Robinson. Another house was used in a control burn for Davidson Fire Department training. The burn was quite a spectacle, Vagt noted. Families came out to watch and have picnic lunches during the ‘show’. The fact that the change on Griffith Street took place during Fall Break aroused suspicion in some students. However, Vagt told students that the timing was due to the fact that Lingle Manor had to be torn down.

Optimist Park warms the hearts of Davidson tutors

By Patrick BAETJER
Staff Writer

Every Monday, ten Davidson students borrow one of the vans from three until five in the afternoon. The van takes the students into Charlotte to the Optimist Park neighborhood, specifically the Chapel of Christ the King Church. Inside, the students, led by Ann-Colter Hosch '00, spend a little over an hour helping elementary and a few junior high children with their homework. The children in the program come from low-income families primarily from an African-American neighborhood. Rebecca Nunan ’03, Jess Richter '03, Mary Stephens '03, Grace McCown '03, Tracy Moore '03, Peter Martin ’00, and Jason King '02, help the children with reading and math. Last week, students helped the kids with a word find and math problems dealing with money. After forty minutes of work, the Davidson students get to participate in old-school recess out on the jungle gym and on the swings. Rebecca Nunan distinguished herself last week by out jumping Rodjer, one of the kids, from one of the swings. Jason, who has an admirer, spent the afternoon cajoling her into doing her homework. When it was time to go, Grace McCown had to extract herself from a pile of kids who were all determined to get a piggy-back ride.

The Davidson students get a great deal of satisfaction out of tutoring each week. They are able to help out academically but play as well. Both the kids and the students drag out the weekly goodbyes. Terrance, one of the children, refuses to let them leave until he has a reassurance that they will be back next week. Jason King practically has to run from his young admirer when time is up. Optimist Park provides an opportunity for Davidson students to help out in the Charlotte area but to have fun as well. If you are interested in joining this group, you are encouraged to call Hosch at extension 6635.

WRITE FOR US, PLEASE? Call Wes (x6810) or JOHN (x6625) FOR INFO.During the break, the greatest cost of such an endeavor is the mobilization of the equipment. Therefore, it made sense to do both projects at the same time. After Vagt and Brawley spoke briefly, they opened up the floor to questions. Many students wanted to know more about the current condition of the people who were moved. Brawley not only gave second-hand opinions (which were all positive), but he offered addresses and phone numbers of the people so that students could find out for themselves.

Another question that seemed to be of primary concern was why the college wanted to move the houses in the first place. Although there are no definite plans for the land, Vagt said that the intent is to keep the land green. He said that a green entrance to the college would be better for attracting prospective students. Elaine Baker ’03, however, asked if the college was trying to change the type of students who applied and were admitted. She and a number of others, judging by the applause in the room following her question, wanted to know why the college would ever try to hide such a vital part of the community of Davidson when the college is committed to service. Vagt responded by saying that he did not want to change the students of Davidson College, but it was important to take into account first impressions of seventeen and eighteen-year-old students who would be driving up to the college for the first time.

As the forum ended, students left the Union still talking about their own takes on the controversy. Many were still not persuaded that the college’s actions were ethical, but they appreciated Vagt and Brawley taking their time to give them more information. “I think very highly of Bobby Vagt for taking the time to consider this issue with students,” Emily Metzloff ’03 said. “However, I believe that he evaded many questions, and ultimately he made a poor decision about the houses on Griffith Street.”

The Admission and Financial Staff wishes to thank all the students, faculty, and staff who have helped us meet and greet the numerous prospective students and parents who visited throughout this fall. A special thanks to all those whose time and energy contributed to the success of our two Discover Davidson programs this fall. You helped us host nearly 1000 students and their families for those two days. We are grateful for your continued support of our work to add another outstanding class to this community. Best wishes for a happy holiday season!

Warren B. Buford III
Assistant Dean of Admission and Financial Aid
Davidson College
www.davidson.edu
(704) 892-2698
1-800-768-0380

Internet start-up? Work for a Hot Internet Start-Up

Are you a born leader? Do you want to work for a hot Internet start-up? VarsityBooks.com is looking for student leaders from colleges nationwide to become Lead Campus Reps. As a paid member of our team, you will hire and direct a staff to carry out VarsityBooks.com’s marketing efforts on your campus. Wondering what the pay is? Compensation includes an hourly wage, stock options, and a performance bonus. This job is a great way to earn money while gaining valuable experience. If you are interested, send an e-mail with your name, school, and contact information to: repinquiries@varsitybooks.com

varsitybooks.com

Corner of I-77 & Exit 28
INNER HAIR CARE
01997 edt Detsion £21, Daren, CT OMZD-1005

Expert Hair Services
Relaxing Manicures & Pedicures
Soothing Facials
Complete Wax Hair Removal
Total Body Massage
Hydro-therapy room

Mon-Thu 9-8
Fri 9-7
Sat 9-5

895-0404
20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Cornelius