THE DAVIDSONIAN

Advice to all movie-goers: What to see and what to avoid

By PHILLIP STEWART
Staff Writer

As far as movies are concerned, this year has lacked any resemblance to what a good year should look like.
One would hope that a good number of watchable films would have been released by March. Alas, however, we are
bombarded by garbage like The Rage: Carrie 2 and Wing Commander, whose storyline is based, sadly enough, on a video
game. If that wasn’t enough, we are given the chance to see the Kathleen Turner comedy Baby Geniuses. The preview
for that one made me nauseous, including a baby (obviously computer-aided) dancing with the white suit from Saturday Night Fever.

So, what is worth seeing right now? What should you go spend your money on? What ones should you avoid?
Here is a little suggestion list.

Rushmore — The movie that was tailor-made for people tired of formula movies like Patch Adams. Completely original in its
plotting and filming, Rushmore is as touching as it is hilarious. Bill Murray puts in an Oscar-worthy supporting role as
a miserable man that hates his family and himself. His pathetic existence often causes the audience to guffaw. Don’t go
in expecting your typical movie and you will leave the theater delighted. Grade: A

Laser Floyd: The Wall and Dark Side of the Moon — With its new laser system, The Charlotte Omnimax theater
has an amazing show to the music of Pink Floyd. I didn’t think that I really liked their music very
much, but the laser show definitely made me a fan. It is an amazing experience--there is nothing like being completely
immersed in music and light. Grades: A, B+

Cruel Intentions — About as raunchy as a movie can get without explicit sex or nudity. It is the most
shocking and entertaining movie I have seen in a while, but that does not mean that it is good. It
is trashy. For example: Sebastian (Ryan Philippe) is told that if he wins a bet, he can have his way
with Catherine (Sarah Michelle Gellar). That wouldn’t be that bad, but she then sweetens the bet by adding, “You can
put it anywhere you want.” If that sounds appealing to you, get ready for hilarious shock after shock, including a
prolonged lesbian kiss. I have never seen an audience as wide-eyed in my life. The ending is this movie’s only
weak point because it abandons the tone. Grade: B+

8 mm — Rarely does a movie cross the line in my mind. Most movies are tame enough for me
(Silence of the Lambs is my favorite film). But this one just goes too far. Nicholas Cage plays a man
hired to find the creators of a snuff film in which a girl is abused and then killed viciously. He
goes into the underground world of porn movies, and the atmosphere is so dark and disturbing, I actually felt sick.
Normally I would consider that a good thing because the point is being conveyed. But it goes on and on.
We watch more S and M sex, extreme violence, and more and more killing on film. The beginning of the
movie is trite and predictable and the rest goes too far. The only thing I would recommend about it is
the performance by Joaquin Phoenix. He is quite extraordinary in every scene. But besides that, the movie leaves you feeling
dirty and disturbed. Grade: C-

Central Station — A beautiful and telling movie from Brazil. Yes, it has subtitles, but those of you that hate
them need to put aside that feeling. Central Station is about a bitter retired woman who writes letters for people
in a train station. She meets a boy who has lost his mother and takes him under her wing. It
is a little more complicated than I am revealing, but I don’t want to spoil the surprises. The movie captures
the culture almost perfectly, and the acting is out of this world. Grade: A

Affliction — Nick Nolte turns in a mesmerizing and electric performance in this movie about the son of an abusive
father (James Coburn). The consequences of this abuse are shown very effectively through Nolte whose life is a series of
upsets and losses. He is divorced and his daughter doesn’t feel comfortable around him. In fact, the only person he
has to turn to, his brother, acts annoyed with him in every conversation they have. It is bleak and very
slow, but also very powerful. I said that Shakespeare in Love has the best chemistry between two leads that I
have ever seen. That was the emotion of love. If you want to see true hatred and misery portrayed, Affliction
is better than any movie of its kind. It is not an entertaining movie, but it is still fantastic. Grade:
A-

Well, there are the movies that seemed worth watching, and most of them were. Take this advice to avoid movies
like The Other Sister, which is “shameless in its use of mental retardation as a gimmick” (Roger Ebert). Unfortunately, the
state of new releases is looking pretty grim for a while to come, as the next movies with a chance
of being good will not be released until May. Who knows, maybe a good movie will come out this weekend.
I hear the new animated The King and I is supposed to be good. Ha. Just kidding. We’ll just have
to settle for Baby Geniuses.

For more information on movies and where they are playing in the Charlotte area, go to http://www.justgo.com/charlotte.

The trees can be the greatest lessons

By Brian CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

Like most Davidson students, I have always appreciated the beauty of the college arboretum, but only recently have I awakened
to all that I can learn from the trees. These teachers offer us many lessons that are often forgotten in
the frenzy of college life. The mystery and beautyof the trees may teach us the most important lessons of all.
This week is “Into the Woods Week,” and there will be many chances to get outdoors and learn from the
natural world. Thursday afternoon, from 3 pm - 4 pm, senior groundskeeper Yates Drum will lead a guided walk around
the campus arboretum. Meet in front of Chambers to learn more from the trees and the people who work hard
to keep these teachers healthy and happy. Trees teach us through their changelessness and through their constant change. The giant
oaks have watched generations of students walk back and forth to classes, rehearsals, and practices. They stand solid and still,
surviving the changing and sometimes chaotic climate of the world around them. Trees challenge us to be this steadfast and
rooted, and their presence is a reminder and a motivator. But even as the trees appear to be changeless, they
also surprise us with their dynamic cycles. The maples and the sourwoods startle us with their brilliant colors. Just as
the fall colors are at their peak, the trees relinquish their spectacular leaves, and the autumn breeze fills the air
with flurries of blooms of the Japanese flowering apricot or the Okame cherry. With spring comes bright green leaves sprouting
to find the warm sunshine. No matter how many times we have witnessed these cycles, we still wait each year
in anticipation, and each year we are surprised with just how beautiful these changes are. The trees challenge us to
be attentive to the rhythms of the world and to find our own rhythms. We often focus on the ways
our lives have a roller-coaster pace or a deadening stagnance, but the trees help us move beyond these frustrations and
see the patient and steady cycles of nature. Perhaps the most important lesson the trees have to teach us is
an appreciation for the mystery and beauty of the world. College so often stresses analytical thinking. College is so full
of words. Books, lectures, papers, and discussions push students to synthesize and evaluate facts and ideas. We often devote ourselves
furiously to our loads of work, expecting that busyness is the sign of true education. The trees do not push
our pace, and their very presence teaches us what the rest of college often cannot. They lead us to wonder.
They quiet the churning of our mental machines and cause us to simply look in awe. Every branch has its
unique crookedness and curviness. Each leaf reaches skyward in its own way, with its complex yet simple web of veins
and vents. The bark, too, has intricate texture, and it is often hard not to just reach out and touch
the trunks of our teachers. This wonder is the lesson often lost amidst the foliage. The evergreens stand out against
the pressures of college life, and it is, perhaps, a winter sky, and soon they are joined by the early
lesson that the trees teach best anyway.

Coffeehouse. Keep that coffee in you. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room. Senior Art Major and Naoto Nakagawa
Exhibits. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the Belk Visual Arts Center. Jumpin’ Java. If the coffeehouse wasn't
enough, we have this! 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost. Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Seth Alley should be there. What
more reason do you need? 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room. Don’t Forget Into the Woods Week!
CROP Lunch. Eat crop. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Yoruba Religion in USA. Find out about it from 4:30 -
6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. Kayak Rolling. Rolling, rolling, rolling, get them doggies rolling! 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. at
Baker Sports Complex. Coffeehouse. Wake up! 900 Room. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. Don’t Forget the Senior Art Major and Naoto
Nakagawa Exhibits at the Belk Visual Arts Center! 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week. Careers Fair. Go find the
direction you're looking for—it's all there, in Chambers Gallery from 12:00 - 5:00 p.m. A Day at Davidson: Yep. This
one has never happened before. 10:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room and Home Room. More events down
below, like... SGA Phonathon. Still don't know where it is. 6:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Chess Club. Gary Kasparov is
God. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room. Jumpin’ Java. More caffeine. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at
the Outpost. Amnesty International. All students welcome! 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Wilson Room.

Women’s Month. Continuing all month on campus. FLAG Speaker. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery. “The Joy Luck
Club” Good movie. Go see it. Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Speakers in the 900 Room. Come
see two speakers from 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. Friday Afternoon Club. 5:00 - 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. This
transitions nicely into... “The Joy Luck Club” 900 Room at 9:30 p.m. “Open Mic Hip Hop Night” Go and listen
or go and perform. It's all a good time. 10:00 p.m. - 1:00 a.m. in the 900 Room. Indian Classical
Series. Go check it out! 4:00 - 7:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Saturday Night Live. Better than Saturday Night Dead.
9:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the 900 Room. Juggling. You know you want to. 7:00 a.m. - 8:30 p.m.
in the Morrison Room. Los Folkloristas. Hopefully this one is in English... 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.
Reach Out Meeting. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Home Room.
