THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Patrick BAETIER
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, November 4, Davidson students were treated to a presentation concerning the Mexican holiday El Dia de los Muertos.
Alejandro Galvez, a visiting professor of sociology, gave the presentation. Galvez described the different concept of death that is inherent
in the Mexican culture. Life and death are seen as closely related, like two sides of the same coin. As
life is celebrated, death is also acknowledged. Galvez went into great detail to describe this duality and, in addition to
this, he showed an example of an altar that is common in Mexican homes.

The Day of the Dead is a combination of ancient Aztec rituals and those of Catholicism which were imposed upon
the Aztecs after the Conquista period. It occurs every year on the second day of November, and it is the
day when the spirits of deceased loved ones come back to the realm of the living. This celebration reflects the
emergence of the mestizo culture shortly after the Conquista. While the native Aztec peoples were rapidly dying out and immigration
from Spain was relatively insignificant, the remaining Spaniards and Aztecs intermixed creating the mestizo peoples. The Day of the Dead
shows the synthesis of these two groups through the popularity of both Catholic symbols as well as those of Aztec
origin, such as edible skulls. Another example of this mix is what is known as bread of the deceased. It
is made of very sweet dough that has a symbol baked into the top that, depending on how you turn
the loaf, resembles either a skull and crossbones or a crucifix.

Galvez explained that the Day of the Dead is celebrated both publicly and privately in Mexico. Parades are held with
people dressing up in skeleton costumes often adorned with flowers. People frequently go to cemeteries, singing and reading poetry. Very
often, candlelight processions light up the nighttime sky. Privately, remembrance and celebration of one’s deceased relatives is done through the
construction of an altar dedicated to that person. This altar often has their picture and personal effects on it, and
is always characterized by having several levels to it. These levels represent their passing from this world to the next.
These altars must specifically have nine things, the first being salt. Salt represents the purification of the dead. The other
necessary elements are candles, incense, water, flowers, toys, bread, a miniature bed, El Perro Azteca, and tamales. The candles are
meant to represent the sun as life and light, while the incense is supposed to help the souls travel from
this world to the next. Flowers, especially marigolds, were also placed on these altars to symbolize the sun again. Water
was to help the soul regain strength for its journey.

Davidson hosts former director of Fulbright Commission

By ANNA KVANVIG
Staff Writer

On Wednesday night, a small group of Davidson students and other community members met in the Union Homeroom to hear
Dr. Ulrich Littman, former Executive Director of the German Fulbright Commission, speak on “The U.S and Germany: The Waning of
the Transatlantic Partnership.” The Fulbright Commission is an exchange program primarily for students, but also includes programs for professors and
journalists. The purpose of the program is to promote understanding between nations through academic and cultural exchange. In 1952 Germany
became the 25th member to join the program and since then over 30,000 Americans and Germans have been involved.

Littman began his talk first by apologizing for “being boring” and by not apologizing for his “lack of political correctness.”
He went on to speak of the changes in the relationship between Germany and the United States. Germany’s thoughts toward
the United States, Littman reported, were declining. In his first speech on International Relations, Chancellor Schroeder did not even mention
the United States. According to Littman, the changes in government were an essential part of the diminishing relationship. He also
said that the disappearance of U.S. troops in Berlin caused the Germans not to take the United States as seriously.
Overall, it was simply a “change in attitude, change in generation.”

Littman spoke about the German “stereotypes” of the Americans. For instance, in small East German towns there are plaques that
say, “Anglo-Americans destroyed this city.” Also, the opinion of the United States since the Vietnam War declined as the Americans
were viewed as killing the “poor little Vietnamese kids.” Thus, the Germans find it somewhat difficult to understand the American
way of thinking. After the talk, Littman opened up the floor for a question and answer session, an opportunity that
many in the audience appreciated.

INTERESTED IN RESEARCH IN BIOMEDICAL SCIENCES?

Summer Undergraduate Research Program in Cell and Molecular PHYSIOLOGY
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

At Carolina, you can study the molecular basis of diseases such as cancer, cystic fibrosis, schizophrenia, muscular dystrophy, and heart
disease. Independent project in a faculty lab will introduce rising juniors and seniors to graduate school life. $2500 stipend, housing,
and meals for a 10-week program. Applications due March 1, 2000. Contact Sharon Milgram by e-mail: milg@med.unc.edu. Visit our website:
www.med.unc.edu/physiolo/its strength for the journey to and from.

_WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1999_

Day of the Dead celebrated at Davidson

This world is difficult. The toys are for the children to play with to help them share in the celebration.
These toys would also be appropriate if one were mourning the passing of a child. The bread and tamales are
meant to refresh the soul like the water. The bed provides the soul with rest, and El Perro Azteca is
a small figurine of an Aztec dog representing the Aztec nature of the holiday. The deceased person’s favorite food is
usually placed on the altar, and sometimes small skulls of sugar can be found as well. These skulls represent the
duality of death once more, for the skull is death but it is sweet as well.

Alejandro Galvez’s presentation provided Davidson, especially those who do not take Spanish, with a provocative insight into a very beautiful
Mexican tradition. Galvez showed that El Dia de Los Muertos is definitively not Halloween, and that a tradition that may
at first look macabre is actually a beautiful celebration of deceased loved ones.

Spee not abducted by aliens... not yet...

By Dave Love
Guest Writer

Finding a believer in UFOs is almost as challenging as finding the aliens that inhabit such craft. Few people subscribe
to the notion of extraterrestrials, and even fewer will disclose their views publicly. Robert Hastings, a recent speaker in the
900 Room, ardently believes in aliens. The Speakers Committee brought him to speak at Davidson College. Hastings has spoken at
five hundred colleges in the last two decades as part of a grassroots movement to inform the public about UFOs
(Unidentified Flying Objects). His presentation and testimony on aliens were based on government documents recovered through the Freedom of Information
Act and interviews from thirty eyewitness accounts of UFOs. Most of these declassified documents deal with UFO “fly-bys” of major
nuclear facilities.

The first such encounter Hastings had with UFOs was at Malmstrom Air Force Base in 1967 (http://www.malmstrom.af.mil/). Hastings viewed a
spaceship while working on the base. He contends the UFO was “very interested in our deadly toys,” referring to the
missile silos located on the base. Since that day 32 years ago, Hastings has set out to unravel the mystery
of UFOs.

One classic example of UFO sightings and alien troublemaking is the Great Northeast Blackout. On November 9, 1965, all of
the northeastern U.S. and parts of Canada lost electric power. Extraterrestrial enthusiasts correlate the power outage to the three UFO
sightings that day, all near major power plants. Coincidence aside, most are leery of UFO sightings to begin with. The
Pentagon’s official explanation of UFOs is: 1) solar reflections of low-hanging clouds, 2) small meteors, 3) flattened hailstones. Hastings contends
that the United States Government is holding back information on aliens. He petitioned the CIA to release certain government documents
under the Freedom of Information Act. The CIA denied his request on grounds of retaining national security. Some declassified government
documents related to UFOs are at http://www.blackvault.com/.

The validity of UFO sightings is arguable, but aliens have definitely entered popular culture. Alien stories abound in music, literature,
and cinema. Most Americans, whether teetotalers or zealous believers, have heard of aliens. UFOs were brought into the limelight in
1947 at Roswell Air Force Base in New Mexico. It was alleged that a UFO crashed in the desert (Area
51) at the military base. Our government issued a public statement that the Unidentified Flying Object was actually a weather
balloon. The Roswell incident set off a barrage of media coverage with nothing left sacred. Since then, aliens have assimilated
into mainstream culture. Speaking about aliens is no longer taboo but rather innovative. Hastings, a fervent believer in UFOs, gave
a stirring rendition of his conviction in aliens.

The Department of Economics is pleased to announce that applications for the Ernest Finney Patterson Awards are now being accepted.
The awards recognize and honor the life of Ernest Finney Patterson, beloved professor of Economics at Davidson College (1957-1979) and
social activist. From the Ernest Finney Patterson endowment, the Department of Economics will grant up to a total of $1200
a year to subsidize formal study, research, fieldwork, or community service by currently enrolled students at Davidson College, that promotes
improving society and bettering the human condition, consistent with the personal ideals of Professor Patterson. Applications can be obtained from
Prof. Peter Hess, Chair of the Economics Department, and are due by February 1, 2000. The recipients of Patterson grants,
who will be notified by March 1, 2000, will also receive a copy of Professor Patterson’s book of poetry, "Poems
for the People," published posthumously, which eloquently reflects his concerns with social and economic justice. Recipients of Patterson grants will
be expected to submit a final report. Contact Dr. Hess for more information.

COFFEE & TEA
At your request...
NOW SERVING LIGHT LUNCH for people on the go!
Quiche • Veggie Wraps • Sandwiches
128 S. Main Street • Davidson • 895-9090
