THE DAVIDSONIAN EDITORIALS

To the exalted freshpeople

Congratulations, Class of 2003. Welcome to Davidson College, your probable home for the next four academic years. You each had
certain expectations as to how your tenure in collegiate academia would unfold. You’ve all chatted with current and former students
who speak of Davidson as if it were a sublime oasis of peace, harmony, and enlightenment. Now is when you
begin to find out how closely, if at all, your account of Davidson will resemble theirs.

Much like other Southern institutions (Krispy Kreme, Piggly Wiggly, etc.), Davidson stands revered and loved by multiple generations. There are
many reasons for their affection, of course, but what’s the right one? Davidson College is a highly selective independent liberal
arts college for 1,750 students. Since its establishment in 1837, the college has graduated 22 Rhodes Scholars and is consistently
ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in the country by “U.S. News and World Report” magazine. Does the preceding
paragraph, which is in reality a summary tacked onto the end of all Davidson College press releases, properly delineate what
makes Davidson an honorable institution? Some must think so.

As Co-Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, your school’s only weekly news source, I know this pretentious pair of sentences like a
2nd grader knows the Pledge of Allegiance. And although I feel that it barely scratches the surface of what constitutes
Davidson's essence, it speaks the truth, and says nothing of which we should be ashamed.

I surmise that the administration has informed thee that you, the Class of 2003, are the most impressive and intellectually
vigorous freshman class in the history of Davidson College (as were the Classes of 2002, 2001, and 2000 before you,
in case you haven’t caught on to the pattern). One of you got a perfect SAT score. Someone else in
your class volunteers at a soup kitchen (that he built with his bare hands, no less) seven nights a week
back at home. Another classmate flies to Florida each weekend for jai-alai training, a sport in which she’s been ranked
in the world’s top ten in her age group since the Reagan administration. And she can breathe fire. Sound familiar?
It shouldn’t, necessarily, and of course I jest. But don’t worry if you feel like you’re the only member of
your class that hasn’t made a significant improvement in our planet’s welfare since middle school. Your classmates’ accomplishments will pale
in comparison with those of next year’s batch of wunderkinds, I promise.

So by now, you’ve been inundated with other people’s opinions and assessments of you and your school. You’ve heard so
many positive and uplifting things about Davidson that it’s downright eerie and unsettling. Is it too good to be true?
Probably. That’s why my only advice to you at this stage in the game is to start judging this place
for yourself. Know that for each of Davidson’s proudly displayed virtues, there may be a vice tucked away in the
closet. Formulate your own opinions, and don’t let those of anyone else obscure your perception. Learning how to think for
yourself is, after all, part of what college is all about. Decide what sort of an impact you want to
make on this school and make it happen. This will ensure a somewhat fulfilling experience here, even if you’re ready
to see the entire campus go up in flames by spring of your senior year. Love Davidson if you want
to love it, or hate Davidson if you want to hate it. Do not love Davidson or even claim to
because others do, or because others think you should, or because others expect you to do so. Your vision of
this school should be the only one that matters. Don’t be afraid to see things a little differently.

DavidsonCollege is a highly selective independent liberal arts college for 1,750 students. Since its establishment in 1837, the college has
graduated 22 Rhodes Scholars and thousands of bright young men who never learned how to do their laundry.

ON MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 1999

Looking at my watch, I assured myself that I would make it to my class on time, despite the three-minute
time frame, the large hill that stood in front of me, and the three flights of stairs in Chambers. Then
the epiphany of reality hit and I frantically began to run. Halfway to my destination, I was overcome with the
grating sound of falling masonry. Pausing, because I had so much time to spare, I glanced over in the direction
of the noise. Bits of brick and steel rained down from Johnston Gym as an iron arm ripped and pried
the flesh of the building away. Completely forgetting about the time, I suddenly became very nostalgic over the transformation of
this aging structure into the new and improved union.

Throughout my class, I thought about the past, the present, and the future. I was in awe of how a
shard of a morning could produce such reflection. The renovations to Johnston Gym made me realize how many items in
my own life have transformed since my first day at Davidson. Three years ago, I walked through the maze of
events during freshman orientation at the Union. Now, less than a year stands before me and the “real” world. A
maelstrom of emotions and feelings swirl through my mind when I think about the coming year. Part of me wants
to forget about life after Davidson and just live things day by day. While the other part of me, the
OCD (obsessive-compulsive-disorder) side, wants to plan every detail of my post-graduate life. Where is the compromise? I don’t have any
answers, only a myriad of questions on the road in front of me.

The questions that I ask myself (Is this really going to matter once I graduate, is this really worth it,
how much am I going to regret this on Monday morning, skim or 2%, what is the point of reading
this, how did this person ever get published, isn’t this really trivial in the long run...) and the questions that
others ask me (what are you going to do once you graduate, have you thought about graduate school, are you
sacrificing something in order to do that, are you going to regret that on Monday morning, skim or 2%...). Ok,
so some of the questions overlap, but the point remains that there are more questions than answers in life.

I wish that I knew more about my future, but if I learned one thing this summer it is that
nothing in life is for sure. There is no such thing as one right way. I thought for the longest
time that what I do in college is going to determine what I do in graduate school which is going
to determine what I do for the rest of my life. Maybe I was silly for thinking this way, but
I thought of my life in terms of a road, sometimes windy, sometimes straight, but always in one direction. I
learned that the extremely cliché phrase “You can do anything you want with your life” is absolutely and positively true.
I guess I heard it so often that I never really thought about what it really meant anymore. We might
have a destiny, but there is no set course on how to get there. So my advice to you is
not to take life so seriously, learn from your mistakes (don’t punish yourself), and never allow yourself to become blocked
into a certain mind frame.

This week's Editorials are sponsored by the letter “H.”
