THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Pre-Law Society hosts members of the US Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals

By RICHARD VINSON

College Communications

On September 24th, the Pre-Law Society was proud to host three members of the US Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals,
two of whom are Davidson alumni. The Honorable William Wilkins '64, the Honorable William Traxler '70, and the Honorable Margaret
Seymour heard two appeals cases in Chambers Gallery. Following the cases, the three judges answered questions from students and faculty.
Both events were open to the public.

Tadd Bevan '02, a member of the executive board of the Pre-Law Society, played a central role in organizing this
historic visit. He said that the purpose of the event was primarily educational. “Our main goal is helping students decide
if law is what they want to do,” he said. To this end, they invited the judges to hold court
at Davidson.

Bevan said that public response to the court session was encouraging. Although the cases took place during times when many
students have class, he was pleasantly surprised at just how many students decided to pay a visit.

The Q&A session gave students a chance to ask the judges about various aspects of their careers and the US
court system in general. One question raised the point that the wealthy are perceived as being able to “escape” justice
by virtue of having better representation. All three judges agreed that while that may be the popular viewpoint, in reality
most public defenders are very competent.

Another audience member asked Judge Wilkins and Judge Traxler how their education at Davidson had prepared them for their careers.
Both agreed that their time at Davidson was excellent preparation for law school. Judge Traxler emphasized that a liberal arts
education cultivates students’ analytical and writing skills. According to him, these are essential for lawyers and judges, as they must
read countless cases in order to prepare themselves for future ones.

Bevan said that the process of bringing the court to Davidson was a long and involved one. He said that
the idea of staging such an event had been discussed by the Pre-Law Society as early as April of last
year. Bevan was able to contact Kearns Davis, a '91 Davidson grad and Greensboro lawyer, through Dr. Mary Thornberry. Davis
had clerked for the late Judge Samuel Ervin, III, a respected Davidson alumnus and long-time federal justice of the Fourth
Circuit. Davis in turn was able to help Bevan contact Judge Ervin.

Judge Ervin was eager to help and proposed a date early in the court’s schedule, which begins in September and
lasts for nine months. With that in mind, Bevan began to make the necessary arrangements, which he said cost him
countless hours of planning and making phone calls.

Tragically, Judge Ervin was not able to see the fine results of his cooperation. He passed away on September 18
in Morganton, NC.

Having now been through the process, Bevan is enthusiastic about bringing the court back again next year. He said that
the experience of organizing it and the strong response this year convinced him that the Pre-Law Society should work to
do it again.

Police Blotter

By CHRISTOPHER LOUVET
Staff Writer

On September 22, an unknown and unseen person took an Apple G3 Powerbook and its power cord from the library.
If anyone has any information relating to this incident, please report it to the campus police.

Speaker to discuss graduate admission strategies

By TONY BUTCHELLO
Career Services

On Tuesday, October 5 at 7:30 in the Morrison Room, Don Asher will present information from his book, Graduate Essays:
What Works, What Doesn't and Why. This event is co-sponsored by the Office of Career Services, Pre-Law Society, Pre-Management Committee,
Union Speakers Committee, and the Bonner Program Office.

The program consists of strategies for gaining admission to the most competitive programs in the nation, both graduate and professional,
and is appropriate for all classes. Mr. Asher is a nationally known speaker and writer on the topics of careers
and education, and travels across the U.S. speaking on college campuses. In addition to speaking at Davidson last year, some
of the schools he has spoken at include Brown, Penn, Rutgers, Swarthmore, Stanford, Reed, Wabash, Emory, Centre, Franklin, and Marquette.

In researching his book, Mr. Asher, president of Asher Associates, a consulting and resume-writing firm in San Francisco, studied over
1,000 admissions essays, interviewed hundreds of graduate students from Oxford to the University of Arkansas, and spoke with admissions officers
at top schools. He gathered their advice on techniques, writing tips, and strategies for getting into highly competitive programs, building
an edge over equally or better qualified applicants, and lobbying your way into a program even after an initial rejection.

Mr. Asher’s presentation, followed by a question and answer session, received great reviews from students last year.
