THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring fever is in the air

By ANNE STANCIL
Student Health Advisor

As I sit here at my computer writing this article, my mind floods with thoughts of all the work which
lies ahead. Who can believe that exams are only a mere three weeks away, and there are still many papers
to be written and tests to take before those blue books? Spring semester is always a tough one because it
seems like as the weather gets warmer, the workload gets heavier. Spring fever is in the air, and you are
not alone in your suffering. How many times have I tried to read or write and stared blankly out the
window watching other people enjoying the weather? It seems harder and harder to work as the sun gets warmer and
warmer.

The point of this article, however, is not to distress you but de-stress. Everyone has a lot of work, so
there is no point in playing everybody’s favorite game: comparing homework. I want to offer some helpful hints and reminders
about healthy stress relief as exams approach.

First of all, get outside! Studying outside is not always an option since distractions inevitably keep us from accomplishing anything,
but take a walk or run in the fresh air to clear your head. Any form of exercise is good
for stress relief. If physical activity isn’t your thing, get off campus for a little while: go see a movie,
go out to dinner, or just wander around. Do anything to get away from homework for a little. Try to
attend some programs on campus for study breaks, such as the upcoming Symphony Orchestra concert or Union Board activities.

Basically, I’m trying to emphasize stress relief without substances. I know that relaxing with alcohol is common on this campus,
and it does take your mind off of work for a while, but the after-effects can be harmful. For example,
what good are those twelve beers you drank to “inspire” yourself to write that paper when the hangover you have
the next morning prevents you from writing at all? While alcohol does help you to forget your troubles, it is
not a healthy way to cope with stress. Drinking to forget problems is one of the tell-tale signs of alcoholism.

Other healthy de-stressing activities include meditation and breathing exercises. These help you to relax and improve concentration. If you are
feeling a bit stressed as you read, try a simple breathing exercise right now: slowly inhale for five counts and
exhale for five counts. Do you feel a little more relaxed? Try it a few more times, and you should
feel more in control of your stress.

This time of year is very busy and stressful. A little stress can actually be healthy—it keeps us focused and
on top of our activities. Sometimes, however, things can get a little out of control and we need to step
back and take control ourselves. The next time work piles up and stress gets out of hand, take a walk
or simply breathe slowly instead of reaching for a beer. You might find that your mood and grades improve.

John A. Dunwoody II

Ensemble in front of Cunningham

Look for a review of George Clinton and the P-Funk All-Stars in next week’s issue!

Tree of the Week: the Eastern Redcedar, stands strong and steady outside Chambers

By BRIAN CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

This week’s tree of the week is not the center of attention on campus, which is suddenly filling with colorful
flowers. This week we honor the Eastern Redcedar (Juniperus virginiana). These are the steady and strong couple that stand alongside
the columns of Chambers. The redcedar is in fact not a true cedar but a member of the juniper family,
as the botanical name implies. This tree is quite common in our area, and anyone who ventures into the woods
behind campus will find multitudes growing wild. Because of their conical shape and availability in the southern states, eastern redcedars
haveLong been popular as Christmas trees, today, this same species is grown on plantations for the holiday season. The eastern
redcedar has a fibrous root system that is useful for erosion control. These trees are often the first to be
planted on the sloping sites of strip mines or clear-cuts. Cedarwood oil is extracted from the tree and is used
in compounding various natural fragrances and perfumes. Redcedar wood is reputed to have natural moth-repelling qualities, and it has long
been used to make chests, wardrobes, and closets. The redcedar has scalelike foliage that grows thick and fragrant on its
twisting branches. The cones are small and bluish, and develop a waxy bloom that makes them appear frosted. This fruit
is nutritious for wildlife, which help spread the seeds in their droppings. Many birds choose the redcedar for nesting, and
the foliage is an emergency food source for many animals during winter. Perhaps the most characteristic feature of the redcedar
is its reddish-brown bark which exfoliates or peels in strips, giving the tree a sinewy appearance. Davidson is lucky to
have several huge redcedars. Behind Martin Science Building are several examples, but the largest are in front of Chambers. This
pair was planted when the building was completed in 1919, and at the time they were about 10 feet tall.
Now reaching to the building’s heights, they are the largest of their species in the eastern United States. These trees
are among the strongest and most steady on our campus. Spring is a time of transformations. The leaves and flowers
seem to explode overnight, bringing the trees to life. We too are transformed in this season, preparing for summer, graduation,
and more. This week we honor the eastern redcedar, an old and faithful presence on our campus.

*Do you enjoy the Tree of the Week? The Davidsonian is looking for someone to continue the tree column next
year. No experience or expertise necessary. If interested, please contact Brian Campbell (brcampbell) or Joy McCain (jomccain).

— On the Scene at Davidson

Earth Week '99. On campus! Get out there and make a difference in the environment!

Coffeehouse. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Senior Art Major. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the Belk Visual Arts Center.

Jumpin’ Java. More caffeine. You'll be jumping around. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Prospective mothers like it (read John Dunwoody's editorial). 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

EARTH DAY ‘99! Chambers Lawn.

CROP Lunch. Eat. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

DC Symphony Orchestra. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Don’t forget the Senior Art Major exhibit.

Reunion Weekend. Not really for you. On campus all day.

Coffeehouse. You know what it is. 8:15 - 11:15 p.m. in the Home Room.

Don’t forget the Art Exhibit in the VAC!

Onan Chess Tourney. 1:00 - 6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Ensemble Vita Nova. 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. in Lingle Chapel.

Jumpin’ Java/Poetry Reading. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the Outpost.

Amnesty International. Meeting in the Wilson Room from 8:00 - 9:00 p.m.

Clothing Drive. Give a little. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. in the Conversation Pit.

Spring Convocation. 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Chess Club. Concentrate! Checkmate! 7:00 - 9:00 p.m.

A History Department talk. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“The Wedding Singer” It's a movie, with Adam Sandler! 9:30 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Kayak Rolling. It's fun! 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. at Baker Sports Complex.

FLAG Meeting. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m.

“The Wedding Singer” 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Showing in the Wilson Room: No soup for you...

Cold Mountain Backpacking. Not here. Out there. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.

Indian Classical Series. 4:00 - 7:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Open Mic. 10:00 - 11:55 p.m. in the Outpost.

Juggling. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Same time and place as Sunday.
