18 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Special K’ crosses

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Sports Writer

Landry Kosmalski was the second to last member of the Wildcats starting lineup introduced in the pre-game last Tuesday at
Wofford. When his name was called, Kosmalski’s solid frame instantaneously went taut. He turned toward teammate Stephen Marshall with utter
intensity in his eye, then thunderously slammed his open palm into Marshall’s own before heading out to join his teammates
in the Wildcat huddle.

“I just love that kid,” commented front row spectator Tripp Cherry, an avid Wildcat fan. Cherry is not alone in
his admiration. When Kosmalski took the floor last Tuesday night, he needed just five points to reach 1000 in his
career. That milestone came and passed early on in the first half. It was a good thing the game wasn’t
stopped, though. Kosmalski would’ve been baffled.

“I didn’t know about it until the next day when Ali (Ton) called to congratulate me. He said he had
heard about it on the radio,” relates the 6-foot-7, 215-pound, junior power forward. “It was a total surprise to me.
I don’t pay much attention to those things.”

Luckily, Wildcat team statisticians do. “I’m shocked it came this soon,” said assistant Wildcat coach Matt Matheny. “He’s on pace
for what, 1500?”

Why not? Kosmalski totaled 376 and 279 points respectively in his first two seasons as a Wildcat. This season, he’s
already passed 350 and is far from through yet.

“It’s a good accomplishment,” admits Kosmalski in a subdued tone. “Actually, rebounds excite me more. The team winning is most
important, though.”

What does it take to reach 1000 career points? “Mental toughness,” answers Coach Matheny. “That’s what distinguishes Landry.”

“He possesses a great work ethic,” adds Wildcat head coach Bob McKillop. “Over the last year he’s improved his balance,
quickness, athleticism, and agility. Landry is a 12-month player dedicated to improving not just himself but the entire team. He’s
extremely coachable.”

Knee surgery following his freshman season (one in which he averaged 13.4 points and 7.6 rebounds en route to winning
the 1997 Southern Conference Freshman of the Year award) combined with alterations to the ‘Cats attack strategy slightly curtailed Kosmalski’s
offensive production last year, but certainly not his effort.

“Last year was a fluke. In some ways, though, it was a good thing, because I learned a lot from
it. I worked even harder last summer.”

And it certainly paid off. This season, Kosmalski is quite clearly back in top form, pacing the ‘Cats in a
host of offensive categories, including scoring.

Ask him too pointedly about his no-nonsense approach to manning up on an opponent, though, and Kosmalski (a.k.a. “Special K”
or “L Train,” if you prefer) will likely answer in a non-committal fashion.

“I don’t know about all that stuff. I guess that’s just the way I am; I get frustrated easily. If
I get pushed, I’m gonna push back. That’s the way my Dad (Len Kosmalski, a former University of Tennessee standout
and member of the Sacramento Kings and Chicago Bulls in the NBA) taught me to play.

It also seems to be the way the Bedford, Texas native was taught to live. Within the two minutes it
took to walk to and from the interview room, Kosmalski had jokingly disowned the team trainer on trumped-up charges of
disloyalty and playfully assaulted a freshman teammate whom he introduced as “a thug.”

Confrontational? Who, Landry? Certainly not!

SPORTS TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999

1000 point plateau

Junior Landry Kosmalski scored his 1000th point last week.

Staff Writer

It’s show time, but for the first time in four years Davidson is not the featured act. The Wildcats enter
this weekend’s Southern Conference tournament play as the number two seed from the Northern Division afterThe disappointing 71-64 loss to
Appalachian State last Saturday. The seeding does not seem to concern the team this year. “Entering the tournament not seeded
number one will not change our game plan so much,” said Associate Head Coach Steve Shurina. “With either seed number
1 or number 2 you have to have good match-ups. Three games in three days is the same on both
sides of the draw.”

Over the previous three years, Davidson had entered the tournament riding considerable winning streaks. In 1995, the Wildcats went undefeated
in conference play (14-0) and entered the tournament with a 19-game winning streak. Yet they still lost the final to
Western Carolina 69-60. Although February has been considerate of late (30-3 over the past four years), this year Davidson has
lost two of their last three to end the season. The late-season success does not make winning the NCAA bid
easy. “You look at the last three years and we have had some great winning streaks heading into the tournament,”
said Coach Shurina. “But in the last three years we have only won the tournament once. The win-loss record is
not indicative of how well you are playing.”

The absence of Ben Ebong, Ali Ton, and Jeff Bergman down the late-season stretch could account for the uncharacteristic February
losses. Since January 4, only twice has Coach Bob McKillop’s roster been intact with all twelve players. Ton’s setback prevented
him from the starting line-up for only the second and third time in 84 games. Their injuries could be a
blessing in disguise for the Wildcats. “The coaches have been worried about Ali lately,” said Coach Shurina. “He had been
playing 35 plus minutes a game and the unfortunate injury allowed him a much-needed rest.” Furthermore, it allowed Michael Bree
valuable playing time. Over the last two games, Bree has shot over 50 percent while leading the team’s offense in
Ton’s absence. “In the first half of the Wofford game, (Bree) was a little uptight and nervous,” said Shurina. “But
he settled down and just played tremendously.” Bree continued his excellence on Saturday against the conference’s quickest guard, Tyson Patterson,
and Appalachian State.

With a healthy roster, the Wildcats hope to use a balanced attack. All year Davidson has not relied upon one
dominant player. In fact, seven players have led the team in individual scoring. “You cannot rely on one person in
the tournament,” Shurina said. “Teams will try new defenses to stop your offense.” Last year Georgia Southern tried such deception
in the first round. They continually doubled down on the post players leaving Ton open for the outside shot. He
ended up with a season-high 20 points, leading the Wildcats to a 74-68 victory. “We always have different weapons,” said
Shurina.

The entire team will have to increase their level of play for a shot at the NCAA tournament. The path
to March madness might be Davidson’s most difficult in four years with a potential match-up against 17th ranked College of
Charleston in the semifinals. Charleston hit their last nine shots to defeat Davidson 84-80 in an amazing come-from-behind victory on
January 30. Davidson is not concerned with their possible opponents. “We’re still feeling good as a team,” said junior forward
Landry Kosmalski. “We expect it to be tough, but everyone is confident and healthy. We're real excited to play.” Davidson
will play the winner of Thursday’s game between Wofford and Western Carolina at 2:30 on Friday afternoon.
