Well, this is it—the last Professor X of the semester. The winner for this week will have the privilege of
being the inaugural winner of the Spring 2000 column. So, focus and guess wisely; you could be the shrewd student
to take Professor X into the new millennium. Last week’s winner was Michael Clifton, '02. He correctly guessed that the
hard-working, Turk-fighting archaeologist was the Chair of the Classics Department, Dr. Michael Toumazou. Clifton considers his Professor X victory to
be his “crowning achievement.” I agree, it is quite an accomplishment!

Let’s take a quick look at what we have all learned this semester: Dr. Cynthia Lewis, Chair of the English
Department, has some pretty cool stupid human tricks. Dr. Susan Roberts, Political Science, worked as a forklift driver for Schlitz
Beer. Dr. Michael Hosking, Biology, will say “sexual chocolate” if you say “love.” Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, Biology, preached for a
while at Rock Prairie Baptist Church in rural Texas. Dr. Jennifer Stasack, Music, played guitar in a French folk band
called Le Rigaudon. Dr. Jeanne O’Neill, Classics, reads poetry in Latin and Greek to her children. Dr. Michael Toumazou, Chair
of the Classics Department, knows how the recoil of an anti-tank cannon feels smashing into his knee.

This week’s interview was a pure pleasure. He speaks softly, but he can speak entertainingly on so many topics that
you’ll want to listen intently. With a bit of humorous pride, he informed me right off that he was “Lake
Norman’s Neighbor of the Month” last month! I asked him what he did to get to be neighbor of the
month, and he just shrugged and gave me a copy of the article entitled “Renaissance Man.” It seems that he
is just into so many different interesting things that he had to be named “Neighbor of the Month.”

He was born in Akron, OH, the second child to two professors. His mom is a sociology professor at the
University of Indiana, and his father is a history professor there as well. His older sister and only sibling is
a professor of biology at Baldwin Wallace College. He has a little academia in his blood. He was really quiet
in grade school, but people can’t believe that now. This very professorial family used to take trips to the Outer
Banks of North Carolina in the summers. He taught himself how to windsurf on these family excursions and still does
when he gets a chance.

In high school, he was actually suspended for helping to publish an underground newspaper. He was caught because one of
his collaborators ratted him out when the school put the pressure on to reveal others. What happened to free speech?
This renegade publication was only the beginning of his publishing ventures. Upon graduation from high school, he considered going to
MIT but headed out for Princeton because he was impressed with their creative writing program and the diverse courses. At
Princeton, his favorite professor was Dr. John Archibald Wheeler. Dr. Wheeler has a pretty impressive resume; he was the person
who got to name black holes, “black holes.” Wheeler was also instrumental in the American development of the atomic bomb.

Professor X was active in Princeton’s student theater group, the Triangle Club. (Former members include F. Scott Fitzgerald and Brooke
Shields.) His shining moment on the stage came when he was a pink bunny in an all-male kick-line. I'll bet
that was cute. I asked him about Princeton’s nude Olympics and, yes, he did participate. (Now that tradition is banned:
200 drunk, naked girls, and 200 drunk, naked guys, lots of snow... bad things, man, bad things.)

He went straight from Princeton to UNC Chapel Hill for graduate school. While explaining to me what his dissertation topic
was all about, he was constantly clicking to various websites to help explain himself. I was seriously impressed with the
project he worked on. The prosthetic retina was in its beginning stages when he started working on it. This technology,
which eventually could allow blind people to see, is fascinating. Basically, he worked on getting imagery from a digital camera
injected directly into the human brain: a digital camera mounted on special glasses takes input from the outside, then that
information is sent to the back of the eyeball through tiny wires and into the prosthetic retina; the function of
the retina is to translate that image into electrical signals that the optic nerve can take to the brain. The
actual device is only 2mm by 2mm. Wow! The possibilities for this technology are limitless.

When he wasn’t helping develop twenty-first-century vision technology, he was either working on his novel or playing in his band.
His novel, The Tragedy of Drakeraft.com, is a murder story set on the campus of Princeton University. He says it
is loosely based on Hamlet but has a little Huckleberry Finn in it. You can purchase it at Amazon.com. His
band, Drake’s Raft, was always just for fun. He plays electric guitar and is influenced by the music he grew
up on: Ozzie Osborne, Black Sabbath, Aerosmith, and Judas Priest. If you want to know more about his band or
his book, you should visit his website, jollyroger.com. This website is very popular. It gets about twenty thousand visitors a
day, sometimes more. He started it with a few friends, and it has taken off tremendously. The overall theme of
the site is to bring the timeless literary classics to the new generation via the contemporary nature of the World
Wide Web. It puts a Generation X slant on great literature. His website has received much praise and probably will
only grow in popularity over the next few years. AOL advertises his site as “smart-alecky, skillfully written and provocative... Literary,
generational, and plain-old politics take it on the chin from jollyroger.com.”

If you think you know the identity of the above professor and want to be the person to carry Professor
X into the new millennium, email me at brmemillan@davidson.edu. It would be interesting to see if anyone could also guess
what Drakeraft is an anagram for. Sunset? Put on your thinking caps, people.

Brandt McMillan ’01

Preserve the spirit of self-selection

The article started, “The editors have invited me to write on the issue of the co-ed eating houses and I
am happy to oblige. But since the question about whether we should have one co-ed eating house is such a
no-brainer, I'll address a few other matters as well.” Well, Scott Denham surely covered a few other matters (and I’m
sure some of you will be either disappointed or equally relieved that this is not another article to criticize or
respond to Dr. Denham), but the real shame is that he never got to why a co-ed eating house (presumably
drawing its population from the same pool of 1600 which now consider Patterson Court membership) would amend a system where
he finds so much wrong. In turn, real discussion on the merits and practicalities of a co-ed eating house was
never jump-started. From what I’ve seen, it was only a topic of debate at Patterson Court Council meetings and the
odd gathering of house presidents on an informal level—in other words, not a true representation of the campus community at
large. I hope it’s not too late to start a campus-wide dialogue, and in that spirit, I'm prompted to record
my thoughts.

The strongest argument for the new house is that it will improve gender relations on campus. Co-ed residence halls certainly
seem to have advanced that goal. I'll admit that had such an option for a co-ed eating house existed in
the fall of 1996, it would have attracted my attention.Freshman year. This thought worries me, though, as my eating house
has been such an amazingly important part of my life in part because the members are all women. My reservations
about the co-ed house proposal have more to do with other concerns than that short skirts and benches just don’t
mix at a co-ed meal. As some would assert, it’s not paranoia that’s prompting me to write (eating house numbers
are strong campus-wide—what other campus organizations boast a membership of over 65% of the female population?). Rather, I am troubled
by the manner in which this proposal has gone forward. As I write, the Council on Campus and Religious Life
has supported an organization of the new house which in no way will conform to the rules and guidelines which
govern our current eating house system. The proposal for the co-ed house does not include the new group in the
Self-Selection policy or the lottery. Each eating house is allowed two party invitations to all freshwomen, one study break during
finals, and one meal at each house. If a freshman asks a member questions about the houses, the member is
on her honor to avoid negative statements about any other organization and encouraged to stress that all houses have much
to offer in the way of great friends, terrific meals, opportunities for service and leadership, and, yes, a good party,
too. It may seem like a pretty limited exchange, but that’s how our system of self-selection is maintained. In addition,
the lottery system is equally vital to keeping a healthy balance of members among houses on the court. Of course,
the downside of the lottery is that some first-year students will not get their first choice, but I’m sure you'll
find many current members with stories of the wonderful things they would have missed out on without the chance assignment
to their second, third, or fourth choice. Likewise, there are also women who find their first choice doesn’t turn out
to be the best match and that another house is a better fit. The point here is that the self-selection
rules are necessary for an eating house system like ours, yet no one has publicly addressed this concern. The co-ed
eating house needs to follow these guidelines if the integrity of the agreement is to be preserved. It troubles me
that a system we place such great value on is not receiving equal respect from some faculty and administrators on
CCRL. One is almost tempted to wonder if student opinion only counts when we agree with the powers that be.
Almost tempted—until I consider the 1997 sorority debate and the recent inclusion of official observance for Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day in the school calendar. Like the co-ed house, both of these initiatives were prompted by student involvement and had
non-student backing, but the major difference here is that there was a concerted, open, and sincere attempt at campus-wide dialogue.
It was manifest not just in SGA surveys or working groups of people supporting these ideas, but also in panels,
forums, articles, and editorials. They served not just in garnering attention from every class as well as faculty and administrators,
but in educating us all on the advantages or disadvantages of the proposed changes, including practical concerns. My critics will
argue, I suspect, that there has been an SGA survey already conducted and published in this very paper. Is this
the best we can do? I saw firsthand the results of this survey and (if for no other reason than
having recently completed the Political Science department’s Senior Colloquium) can’t help but be suspicious of a sample of only 271
students representing a larger body of over 1600. The SGA Polling and Response Committee contends this is a good return
rate—for Davidson College. I challenge them to do better in quantitatively defining student response to the co-ed house addition. The
student leadership behind a co-ed eating house tell me they have an email list of 58 students interested in being
their new members. Yet I’m still not satisfied, and I say this at some personal risk—that basis of support is
not strong enough because 27 are first-semester freshmen and women. I would argue that a member only truly comes to
know what a house is all about after being a full (eating) member, for most that’s after the fall semester
of sophomore year. This article isn’t intended to shoot down Dr. Denham’s assessment of Patterson Court or to win over
any freshmen. Instead, I urge the supporters of the co-ed eating house to proceed with more caution and continue to
gather information on how to make a new and different house on Patterson Court a positive and successful addition. In
particular, get to know our rules on self-selection policy. We devote an enormous amount of time to them throughout the
semester both in educating members of policy in general, explaining their intricacies, and the spirit behind them. It is both
a stated and understood goal that every freshman be able to make the same unpressured, self-evaluated choice we all had.
Delaying the start of a co-ed house to comply with these rules may even be to the organization's benefit. The
co-ed house should have an equal opportunity to interact with potential new members just as the existing houses do. I
applaud the initiative these students have taken in organizing another house on the Court, but the issue at hand is
that this organization must also include similar guidelines on Self-Selection in their membership policy. As someone who has both benefited
from and worked within this system for four years, I realize how vital Self-Selection is and hope that in the
haste to get things started these guidelines will not be overlooked.

Julie Summersgill ’00

WTO. continued from page 5

Break into stores. The rioting, broken windows, looting, and spray painting did not come until hours after both the peaceful
protests and the police-initiated violence had occurred. Martial Law was declared on the city that night and since then, the
National Guard was brought in, a no-protest zone was declared, over 500 people were arrested (many of whom were arrested
outside the designated zone), and neighborhoods with absolutely no protestors have been attacked with teargas bombs. In that one day,
I saw more rage and violence than I ever imagined possible for a peaceful and legal movement. Under the first
amendment, we have the right to freedom of speech and a right to stand up for what we believe. As
we speak, protestors who thought they possessed these inalienable rights are sitting in a jail cell refusing to give their
names in solidarity and as a result are suffering greatly. As much as it stuns and strikes us that this
shouldn’t be happening in the U.S.—it is. It happens all over the country, more than we think; but not to
50,000 people at one time. This incident cannot be ignored because too many people care and too many people are
outraged. There are things that can be done and, honestly, every little bit helps. Every part makes a whole. Please
take a few minutes to write a letter to the Mayor of Seattle, the Seattle Police Chief, or both to
demand the release of all jailed activists and to express your anger at the use of chemical weapons and rubber
bullets on protesters. Thank you. If you have any further questions, please feel free to contact me or come to
an informational talk, discussion, and picture presentation I will be having on Wednesday, December 8 in the Wilson room at
8:30 PM.

Terra Gill ’02
