TUESDAY, MAR

Downward trend in tuition increase

Davidson College trustees last week approved a $53.748 million budget for the 1999-2000 fiscal year that includes the smallest percentage
increase in student charges in 26 years. The comprehensive fee for students, including tuition, fees, room, and board, will be
$28,568. That figure includes a base cost of $22,228 for tuition and mandatory activity and laundry fees, which is $833
more than the current year. The comprehensive fee for the current year is $27,521.

While minimizing increases in student charges, the new Davidson budget maximizes increases in entry-level faculty compensation to achieve parity with
Davidson’s peer group institutions and includes compensation increases for other faculty and staff as well. The budget adds funds for
academic programs and technology. Clark Ross, vice president for academic affairs, said the bulk of the $250,000 of new academic
program funds will complete the equipping of Watson Life Science Building for biology and, to a lesser extent, psychology. In
addition, it will increase the library’s annual purchasing funds, purchase primary source material for a new teaching position in African-American
history, and give additional funds to most departments for everyday office needs. The bulk of the $250,000 of new academic
program funds will complete the equipping of Watson Life Science Building for biology-based instructional tools.

Because of trustee policy, the increase in tuition triggers proportional increases in the college’s expenditures for financial aid, which will
rise $432,000 to a total of $11.1 million. Students also receive other financial aid from outside sources, which is not
reflected in the college budget. All faculty and key staff computers will be upgraded to network standards, and improvements are
planned for the campus telecommunications network. Two new positions will be created.

Top marimbist will highlight Concert Series

Makoto Nakura, a master of the marimba, will present a Concert Series performance at Davidson College on Monday, March 22.
The presentation will begin at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets are $12 for adults
and $8 for seniors and students. The Friends of the Arts at Davidson are also sponsoring a presentation by Nakura
the following morning for students at the Davidson International Baccalaureate Middle School.

Born in Kobe, Japan, Nakura began to play the marimba at age eight. He earned an artist’s certificate with distinction
from the Royal Academy of Music, and a master’s degree at the Musashino College in Japan. In January 1994, Nakura
became the first marimbist to win a place on the Young Concert Artists roster. Already a great success in Asia,
he made debuts in New York and at Washington’s Kennedy Center in 1995. He then won the Aaron and Irene
Diamond Soloist Prize of the Young Concert Artists and in 1996 appeared as concerto soloist with the New York Chamber
Symphony. “Makoto Nakura plays the marimba with superhuman energy and technique,” wrote a reviewer in the South.

Professor Kazee to leave

Kazee said, “My coming to Davidson was a confirmation of an old adage: find something you love to do and
that someone will pay you for and do that.” Teaching, Kazee said, is “not only an occupation but also something
I love.” Besides the students, Kazee has also enjoyed his professional associations. He appreciates his colleagues, and he feels pride
to be a member of a “remarkable department.” Kazee said that “chairing the political science department has been a labor
of love” and that it is “rewarding every day.”

Despite his love for teaching and his colleagues, Kazee said, “I won’t miss the very many different hats that the
faculty at Davidson are asked to wear.” The “competing demands on one’s time” and “diverse set of responsibilities” that have
faced Kazee include the administrative duties of a department chair.Live with British students in the very center of Oxford as
an Associate Student of a medieval Oxford college. Summer and graduate study available. Since 1985, students from 240 leading U.S.
colleges have studied in Oxford through W.I.S.C.

Washington International Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. (Suite 370)
Washington, D.C. 20002
Phone Number: (202) 547-3275
Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC
Facsimile: (202) 547-1470
E-mail: wisc@erols.com

While “diverse things do push you in different directions” at Davidson, Kazee hopes to find a narrower focus: “I will
have a full plate at Sewanee, but the things on the plate will share a more common focus.” Still, Kazee
emphasized that he has not been unhappy at Davidson and said “those frustrations have nothing to do with my leaving.”
He added, “on balance, I’ve been very happy here,” and he said that he feels “mixed emotions,” both “great sadness
and excitement,” about the change.

Kazee also felt that his time at Davidson has prepared him for his new position at Sewanee. Serving as the
political science department chair has given him a “fair amount of responsibility.” In addition, Kazee has chaired committees, such as
the Professional Affairs Committee, that work closely with the administration. He said, “I’ve had about as much of administrative responsibility
as one can get short of being a dean.”

A 1974 graduate of Baldwin-Wallace College, Kazee received his Ph.D. from Ohio State University in 1978. His dissertation dealt with
“Congressional Elections and the Rerun Phenomenon: A Study of Candidate Recruitment and Incumbency Advantage,” a subject he still researches. Before
coming to Davidson, Kazee taught at Tulane University for three years. He specializes in American politics, American institutions, Congress, the
presidency, public opinion, media, and Southern politics.

In 1987-1988, the American Political Science Association granted him a Congressional Fellowship to be a policy analyst in the US
House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance and a legislative aide in the office of Senator Tom Daschle in Washington. He
edited a book, “Who Runs for Congress: Ambition, Context and Candidate Emergence,” for the Congressional Quarterly Press in 1994. Georgetown
University Press has currently contracted Kazee to write another book tentatively entitled “Political Trust and American Politics.” In addition, he
sits on the editorial board of the professional journal “American Review of Politics,” and he has written several articles for
professional journals and has served as a featured presenter at professional conferences.

While Kazee is not happy about saying goodbye to his students and colleagues, he is ready for a new challenge.
When he leaves, Dr. Mary Thornberry will take over as political science department chair.

China Morning Post: “There is balance, a resonance and fireworks that leave the audience gasping for more.” He is currently
a visiting consultant for percussion studies and frequent recitalist at the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts, and performs
concerts and educational activities at colleges and universities throughout America. Since 1992, he has been the youngest member of the
Percussion Group ‘72, Japan’s most prestigious percussion ensemble. He has also given recitals and master classes at the Royal Academy
of Music in London.

Davidson’s Concert Series was created through an endowment established by First Charter National Bank in honor of the Coltrane family.
It is funded by the endowment, the music department, and the College Union. Additional support is provided by the Friends
of the Arts at Davidson, and Classical 89.9 WDAV radio is providing media sponsorship. For reservations for Nakura’s concert at
Davidson, call the College Union ticket office at 892-2135 from 2:30-5:30 p.m. weekdays.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

News Editors
Op-Ed Editors
CARRIE ARTHUR
KEITH ALLEN
ASHLEY E. EUGENIA LEATH
LISSA ANN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

The Davidsonian is published Tuesday during the academic year by the students of Davidson College.
