THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Cintra Pollack
Union Board President

Last fall, the Union conducted a students’ needs and interests survey in order to establish what students felt the role of the Union could and should be in their lives. By examining the survey results, we intend to accomplish a multifaceted achievement: we aim to better use facilities and resources we already have to meet student needs, to re-evaluate our current programming to maintain events students really enjoy, to plan new events which better reflect student demands, and to project what future needs and interests might be while planning the new Union facility.

We wanted to share some of these results with the entire Davidson College community to demonstrate not only what changes we have already implemented in response to the survey, but to invite your specific suggestions as to how we can satisfy more of our community. We were pleased to learn that 10.5% were very satisfied, and 66.6% were satisfied. On the other hand, there were 19.3% of students who were dissatisfied, and 3.6% were very dissatisfied with the social activities and opportunities Davidson has to offer. This indicates that while Davidson offers a fruitful social life to many, some students still feel their options are insufficient.

Men were less satisfied with their social options than women, with a 72.2% satisfaction rating versus an 81% satisfaction rate. Demographically, far and away the most dissatisfied students tended to be African-American students, with 76.2% of the African-American respondents either dissatisfied or very dissatisfied, and only 23.8% satisfied. The sample size of African-American students was 21.

96.3% noted that a reason they come to the Union is for food, which was the most popular answer for why one goes to the Union, but other important reasons to go to the Union included to go for meetings, for events, or just to hang out. Some students complained about the shortened cafe hours still in effect as of the time of the survey. Other student comments and suggestions are welcome as we look forward to an even better-planned and more accommodating facility in the months and years to come.

Some basic information to know in consideration of our survey results is that the sample size of our group was 410 Davidson students. The respondents were exactly split 50/50 between Patterson Court and non-affiliated members, many of whom were freshmen. The surveys came from 44.4% male and 55.6% female students. The class breakdown turned out to be 24.4% freshmen, 34.1% sophomores, 19.3% juniors, and 22.2% seniors. 93.7% of the respondents live on-campus.

One of the numbers we have scrutinized is the average of 77.4% satisfied. Men were less satisfied with their social options than women, with a 72.2% satisfaction rating versus an 81% satisfaction rate. Also, those who were affiliated with houses were slightly more likely to find their social options sufficient, with an 82% satisfaction rate versus the 71.3% satisfaction rate held by independents or freshmen.

When asked how frequently they come to the Union, 65.1% remarked they come more than six times a week. 96.3% noted that a reason they come to the Union is for food, which was the most popular answer for why one goes to the Union, but other important reasons to go to the Union included to go for meetings, for events, or just to hang out. 83.9% of students polled said they go to the Outpost at least once a week. The Outpost is also a part of the Union facility, despite the fact that many do not realize it. While the Outpost is most frequented by late-night visitors in dire need of some quesadillas after a rigorous night of dancing on the court or studying, many students go to the Outpost just to hang out, to attend events, or to study.

While a number of students wrote comments on the survey indicating that one of the reasons they choose not to attend Union events is because alcohol is seldom offered, 16.1% of the respondents said that one of the reasons they do attend Union events is because alcohol is not offered.

Some of the other programming received high scores, but a good number of respondents had no opinion, which may indicate that they have never been or are not aware of the events. When it came to publicity, most people felt that they were relatively well informed, but that the Union calendars sent out are not the place they get their information. Word of mouth, voice mail, and e-mail, as well as the old stand-by posters and fliers, were all methods with which people noted the Union could alert them to our events.

Overall, the survey...indicated to us that we are doing a competent job in meeting students’ needs, but there are many ways in which we can improve. Some of the efforts we have already made to bridge the gap between what students want and what we provide them with include: 24-hour access to building facilities, reinstated longer hours at the cafe, a campus-wide email and voicemail network to alert all students to big events, plans for a big-name band in Baker in the spring (no, we’re not leaking who that might be yet!), a campus-wide formal in February, and of course, we look forward to our traditional favorite events such as Spring Frolics. We still wish to improve upon the number of events where alcohol is served to legal-aged drinkers, such as at 21-Year-Old night, which ranked very highly as events people wanted us to continue. The surveys came from 44.4% male and 55.6% female students.

Our drive for this spring is to work on further diversifying and improving our programming to enrich the lives of the Davidson College community, but we need community support and communication in order to achieve our objectives. The major ways survey respondents wanted the Union to change included that people wanted more big-name bands, better food, more opportunities to interact with faculty and staff, more dance parties, and more social connections to things away from the Davidson College campus. A good number of students, 11%, also remarked that they thought the Union’s hours at the time of the survey were too limited. The Union events people most want us to continue include the film series, the hypnotist, and Spring Frolics.

If you have any ideas on how to make the Union a better place and our programming more complete, please let any of the Union staff or Board members hear what you have to say. If you want to make a difference yourself, sign up in the Union lobby for a Union Board committee chair interview RIGHT NOW!

Honor Council reviews first semester
By Lee Ann Petry and Asa Hercules
Honor Council Member and Honor Council Chair

The Honor Council has been very active during the 1998-99 academic year. During Freshman Orientation, Honor Council members presented the Honor Code to freshmen and answered their questions in small-group settings. After the Fall elections, all Honor Council members participated in an intense mock trial training session. The Student Solicitors, the Defense Advisors, and the Honor Council members practiced in a simulated Honor Council trial in which a student was charged with cheating on an exam. Members of the Smith, Helms, Mullis, and Moore Law Firm, located in Charlotte and Greensboro, presented the session. The mock trial was especially beneficial to new Honor Council members who were inexperienced in trial procedures.

Honor Council committees have also been active. The Red Book revision committee, chaired by Richard Wright ’00, has been working to improve a section in the Red Book pertaining to open and closed trials. The Faculty Relations Committee, chaired by Grace Robinson ’99, has been interviewing Davidson professors from eight departments to gain a faculty perspective on the Honor Code. A faculty-Honor Council reception will be held on Tuesday, February 9, in the Chambers gallery from 4-5:30 PM. The reception will allow the faculty and Honor Council members to discuss the Honor Code and address any concerns or questions the faculty might have regarding the Honor Code. Finally, the Campus Forum Committee is working on a campus forum to be held in March. The goal of the Forum Committee is to encourage a dialogue between students, faculty, and the administration regarding the Honor Code.

Finally, the Honor Council is proud to announce the new Chair and Secretary. Honor Code Violations—Fall 1998

Lyn Ogden ’00 will succeed Asa Hercules ’99 as Chair. Kara Baker ’00 will replace Paul Eubanks ’00 as Secretary. Additionally, Jo Patterson ’00 and Joseph McElveen ’00 are the new Student Solicitors. The Honor Council wishes to express its gratitude to Asa Hercules and Paul Eubanks for their leadership and organization over the past semesters.

Hearing Date: September 30, 1998
Infraction: Cheating
Verdict: Guilty
Sanction: A written letter of apology to the professor of the course in which cheating occurred and an “F” on the quiz.

Hearing Date: October 8, 1998
Infraction: Using false identification to obtain alcohol at a Patterson Court function
Verdict: Guilty
Sanction: Social probation from Patterson Court for the remainder of Fall ’98 semester and Spring ’99 semester.

Hearing Date: November 10, 1998
Infraction: Cheating
Verdict: Guilty
Sanction: An “F” in the course with authorized withdrawals in other three classes, suspension for the remainder of Fall semester and Spring ’99 semester.

Hearing Date: November 16, 1998
Infraction: Plagiarism
Verdict: Guilty
Sanction: An “F” in the course, authorized withdrawals in other classes, and suspension for the remainder of Fall ’98 semester and Spring ’99 semester. The student appealed sanctions, they were changed to: suspension of the remainder of Fall ’98 semester.