M = 7 2 = TY = O N D A » Ceci named second-team regional All-American By Mike ANDERSON Staff Writer Kim Ceci has provided strength, continuity, and leadership to Davidson’s field hockey program for the last four years. Due to her trademark humility and understated style, Ceci’s efforts went largely unnoticed outside of her close friends and teammates. Until now. Ceci garnered second-team regional All-American honors this month (representing the southern region, the most competitive in Division I field hockey), and was selected as one of only 17 players to represent the south in this week’s elite Division I North/South Senior All-Star Game. “It’s a thrill to see her get that recognition,” beams Wildcat head coach Jen Halliday. “It’s a great honor.” A 5-foot-8 senior from Escondido, California, Ceci guided Davidson to an 11-7 record and a Deep South Field Hockey Association title. Though primarily a defender, she totaled 20 points over her career, notching seven goals and adding six assists. “I think the Deep South Championship and the honors that Kim has received individually really reflect the commitment that this team has made to be successful,” praises Director of Athletics Jim Murphy. “The team deserves a tremendous amount of credit...the coaching staff and the entire team has worked really hard and we’re seeing the fruits of those efforts.” Ceci was a stalwart defender, rallying the Wildcats’ defensive forces that allowed barely 2.5 goals per game in the ’99 campaign. Asked about Ceci’s on-the-field talents, Halliday answers: “Knowledge of the game. Anticipation. Power.” “Kim is an amazing team player,” praises teammate Lauren Hancock. “She plays with finesse and poise. Kim is a beautiful hockey player to watch. She plays with confidence, and our team has 100% confidence in her when she is on the field. She has such a passion for the game.” “Each year she has progressed,” Halliday continues. “We expected a lot from her—there was no conversation had, but Kim understood what we needed from her. Some people are very vocal about what they do—not Kim, she just did it. That speaks very highly about how her leadership is intrinsic.” By nearly all accounts, Ceci’s field hockey skills pale in comparison to her most precious gifts and talents. “Kim has had such a huge impact on Davidson Field Hockey on the field, but even more so off the field,” Ashley Hart says. Transcending all of her athletic prowess, Ceci has been a powerful witness for Christ. “All her hockey successes she credits to God,” says Hancock. “Her focus when she steps on the field is to glorify Him.” In an Old Testament scripture, the Israelites sing to the Lord, “In your unfailing love you will lead the people...” True to her faith, Ceci has reflected this love and leadership throughout her four years as a Wildcat. “She has been committed to caring individually for each player, and to encourage team unification,” says Hart. “I really believe that this genuine interest and care for the team off the field contributed significantly to our improved play and teamwork.” Halliday agrees. “Our team being plugged in [spiritually] is amazing. Because you understand that a game is a game, but you have to be the best that you can be as a person... For Kim, I don’t think she separates her life—I don’t think she separates her leadership playing from her spiritual leadership. She exudes leadership all around.” Ceci’s graduation will leave some large shoes to fill, but her teammates say that the remnants of her leadership and spirit will inspire the program for years to come. “Kim is an amazing person and I feel blessed to have been able to play with her,” says Hart. “Even more, I am thankful for the friend she has been to every girl on the team.” Boston College hands Wildcats first loss of the season By Mike ANDERSON Staff Writer There are a lot of things about the 1998-99 season that the Wildcats hope to repeat this season. A blowout lossat the hands of a national power—Davidson College 54 | Boston College 86—the season opener wasn’t one of them. The first half of Friday night’s contest at #19 Boston College was eerily reminiscent of the Wildcats’ ’98 season-opener at Southwest Missouri State (a game Davidson lost 120-65). The ‘Cats were hopelessly outmatched, out-shot, out-rebounded, and out-hustled at every turn. Such was the scene for the first twenty minutes last Friday night, when the Eagles soared over Davidson 50-18 in the first half, powered by a 35-8 run in the game’s first seven minutes. The Wildcats shot a miserable 20.8% from the floor and 11% from the 3-point line in the first twenty. Retreating to the refuge of the half-time locker room, Jen O’Brien & Co. had to make a decision.

“At half-time we had to decide whether or not we could come out and answer the bell,” said John Filar. “And we did.”

They did, indeed. The Wildcats re-emerged with a vengeance in the second half, doubling their shooting percentage and tripling their rate from behind the arc. Most impressively, Davidson matched Boston College point-for-point in the game’s final frame.

“Filar was disappointed with our defensive effort [in the first half],” junior center Jessica Heath explained, “and he wanted to see some anger. He told us: ‘Go out there and fight. Play defense like I know you can. Shoot like I know you can. Run the plays, slow them down. Do it at your tempo, and you'll be just fine.’”

Jen O’Brien was able to salvage the contest with a relatively impressive individual performance. O’Brien, from nearby Middletown, Connecticut, pitched in a game-high 18 points and snared an evening-best 12 rebounds. Heath and Janna Magette each tallied nine points, while Meagan Gleason added five points and five defensive boards. Leah Uhernik delivered three of the team’s four assists, and Katy Kamp collected five points.

Davidson entered the contest against Boston College desperately untested. “Having had a lackluster team to play in our first exhibition and having the second exhibition canceled meant that we hit the court in the nitty-gritty for the first time against the #19 team in the country,” Filar said. “Boston College, on the other hand, had already logged road victories against Maine—one of the toughest places to play in women’s basketball—and Duke. It’s maybe the worst way you would want to go into Boston.”

“[Boston College Head Coach Cathy Inglese] was really nice about playing her bench a lot in the second half,” said Filar, “but (nonetheless) we did some really nice things.”

Heath agreed. “They were a good team. They worked hard. Their guards were great, and their posts were great. If we could have just played the first half like we did the second. Everyone stepped up and we knew that we could do it.”

The Wildcats host Wake Forest University tomorrow night, looking to knock off the ACC program for the second consecutive year. A victory Tuesday night would hand the ACC its first ever loss in Belk Arena.

“Any time you get a shot at an ACC school, you’ve got to make the most of it,” said Filar. “Especially on your home floor.”

Jessica Heath, a perennial force, led the second-half charge against Boston College.

Monday, November 22
M basketball vs. Haverford 7:00 p.m.

Tuesday, November 23
W basketball vs. Wake Forest 7:00 p.m.

Saturday, November 27
W basketball vs. Denver (Santa Clara, Calif.) 5:00 p.m. (PST)

Sunday, November 28
W basketball vs. Santa Clara or Miami (Ohio) 5:00 or 7:00 p.m. (PST)

DOUBLEHEADER

Wednesday, December 1
W basketball at UNCC (Charlotte, N.C.) 5:45 p.m.
M basketball at UNCC 8:00 p.m.

Saturday, December 4
W basketball vs. Stony Brook 2:00 p.m.

Sunday, December 5
W basketball vs. Boston or Marshall 1:00 or 3:30 p.m.

RAREST Mara Mordini, the junior who helped lead the 1999 Wildcat Volleyball team to its first NCAA berth ever, was named the Southern Conference Player of the Year last week.

...to the Wildcat Volleyball squad as they head into the first round of the NCAA Division-I tournament.