DAVIDSON

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
Established 1914

Class of ‘03 quickly approaches.
NEWS 4

ALENDA LUX UBI

Dave and Erich survive the fall.
OPINIONS 9

A&L 12

Bela Fleck & the Flecktones! This Friday in Love Auditorium.

Swimmers cap off record season.
SPORTS 15

By CARRIE ARTHUR
News Editor

On January 15 at 5 pm, Bill Slusser ‘99, a work-study student at the Belk Visual Arts Center, noticed that someone had written on one of the lithographic plates in the “Apashtology” exhibit. The letters “ay” in the word “lay” had been crossed out and replaced by “ie” to correct a grammatical error in the text of a work by Beauvais Lyons. The value of the damaged plate is $300 with the entire exhibit valued at $2,200. Despite the relatively inexpensive damage, Perry Nesbitt, Director and Curator of the Van Every and Smith Galleries, said, “it is an issue of the vandalism instead of the value of the piece.”

Slusser noticed the vandalism at the end of his one-hour shift in the Smith Gallery when he was “looking at the art.” Because few people had been in the Gallery during his shift, Slusser has “no idea” who could have vandalized the plate. He was surprised at the vandalism, especially since “not many people had been looking at that art.”

Nesbitt said of the vandalism, “it’s the first time that this has happened (to Lyon’s art) and the first time that it’s happened here at Davidson.” Although the person intentionally destroyed the exhibit, Nesbitt said, “my hunch is that the person was unaware that this is a work of art.” Nesbitt explained, “there is a lot of contemporary art where words and images are combined.” Nesbitt continued that an artwork can lack something “recognizable or abstract” because the art “could be the text.” This art form, in which words are the image, is called conceptual art. Although conceptual art “has been dealt with quite a lot in contemporary art going back to the sixties,” Nesbitt said that it is “an issue that possibly hasn’t been addressed in the galleries on campus.” Even the “Apashtology” exhibit dealt with conceptual art “in passing.” Nesbitt is considering including a series focusing on text as art in future exhibition schedules.

Nesbitt was furious about the vandalism: “I personally think it’s outrageous that anybody would have the arrogance to correct a work of art.”

Continued on next page

Davidson elects new leaders

The new SGA forces, Dane Erickson and Foster Haselden

By ASHLEY E. KING
News Editor

On Monday, January 25, Davidson students elected the new Student Government Association (SGA) representatives from the 1999 Category II election candidates. The recently elected SGA president is Foster Haselden ‘00, and the new SGA vice president is Dane Erickson ‘01. Other newly elected representatives include union board president, Will Thompson ‘00; academic affairs, Joey Harris ‘02; independent senators, Cabot Earle ‘01, Randy Skattum ‘01, and Laura Waddle ‘01; budget and finance, Andrew Nash-Webber ‘01; institutional advancement, Lee Ann Petty ‘01; student conduct council, Andrew Nash-Webber and Ed Ellington; and CCRL, Christopher Brantley ‘01, Ben Cooper ‘01, Robin McKinney ‘01, and Cameron Richardson ‘01.

Tackling the position of SGA president with experience in leadership and student government, Haselden has

Continued on page 3

Selection for Hall Counselors and Resident Advisors Begins

By: LAURA MCCANDLISH
Staff Writer

Students who serve as Hall Counselors (HCs) and Resident Advisors (RAs) have a great impact on the students for whom they are responsible at Davidson. This fact is especially relevant for Hall Counselors living on freshman halls, because the enthusiasm they exhibit and activities they plan are crucial for making first-year students feel comfortably acclimated to life at Davidson.

The selection for next year’s staff is currently underway in the Residence Life Office (RLO). Eight students currently studying abroad were interviewed for staff positions before they left for Christmas break. Assistant Residence Life Director Dee Kauffman said, “I’m very excited about this year’s candidate pool.” There are around 60 brand-new applicants and nine returning staff members.

In order to apply for a staff position, students must be enrolled as a full-time Davidson student, must have lived in the residence halls for two years, and must have a minimum GPA of 2.5. Each applicant for RA and HC had to complete an application of numerous essay questions by January 25. They also had to solicit four letters of recommendation, respectively from a faculty member, an administrator, their current RA/HC, and a peer.

Following the application process, student applicants participate in two interviews, which will be held from February 1 through February 19. One interview consists of a group process, which allows the staff selection committee to observe how the applicants interact in a group setting. The second interview is a formal, 30-minute panel interview with a professional staff member and at least one current staff member.

After all the applicants have been interviewed, the

Continued on page 5

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036