THE DAVIDSONIAN

Luminaries to be placed around campus in recognition of the reality of AIDS

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

It's almost been twenty years since doctors first saw cases of what came to be called AIDS. These twenty years
have been marked by progress and ignorance, compassion and bigotry, hope and disappointment; the HIV virus has found its way
into our morality, our politics, our cultural identities. AIDS is our epidemic. Amongst the hopes and fears that will be
carried into the new millennium are the hope for a cure for AIDS and the fear that science won’t be
able to discover such a cure. One piece of ignorance which I hope isn’t carried into the next millennium is
that a cure has already been discovered. As of right now, there is no cure for AIDS.

Unfortunately, some seem to believe that the new regimen, the so-called “drug cocktail,” is a cure for the disease. It
isn’t. HIV is an RNA retrovirus, which means that it uses an enzyme called reverse transcriptase to produce its DNA
while in the host cell. This fact many of us know, but it is necessary to mention it in order
to understand how the drug cocktail works. There are two parts to the drug cocktail: drugs called nucleotide analogs and
drugs called protease inhibitors. Common analogs are AZT, ddI, or ddC. AZT, ddI, and the like interfere with this process
of reverse transcription. Protease inhibitors interfere with the production of viral proteins. The drug cocktail is expensive and taking it
brings on many unpleasant side effects, such as diarrhea, insomnia, and confusion. Most importantly, new strains of HIV are being
seen that are resistant to the drug cocktail. Let me repeat. There is no cure for AIDS.

This fact brings us back to reality—as we enter the new millennium AIDS is part of our world. As Health
Advisors, our talks about AIDS focus on risky behaviors. I’m sure many, if not all, of you know what risky
behaviors are. Unprotected sex and IV drug use are the two most prominent ones. AIDS can be passed through four
different bodily fluids: blood, semen, vaginal fluids, and breast milk. The last fluid I doubt most of you will encounter,
but please remember the first three. You can get HIV not only from vaginal or anal intercourse, but from a
number of other actions as well. If at any time you come into contact with blood, semen, or vaginal fluids
of another person, you could be bringing the HIV virus into your own system. So, I urge you, if you
are going to be sexually active, know and trust your partner. Know and trust. If you are going to use
drugs, always use clean needles. If you are going to take risks, at least love yourself enough to take precautions.
Take precautions, because, as of this moment, AIDS is part of your life. You may not have the HIV virus
streaming through your blood. You may not even know anyone who does. But it is still part of your life
because you can be at risk to contract it. AIDS is still a reality.

In acknowledgment of this fact, the Health Advisors will be placing luminaries around campus. These luminaries will represent the need
for continued awareness about AIDS. We would like to make a request for help from anyone interested—we need help putting
the luminaries up! On Thursday, December 2, beginning at 1:00, the Health Advisors will start putting up luminaries around Chambers.
The work will extend into the night. Please feel free to help at any time!

Deidre Prosen’s "Totems" on display in the GRC

By Jenny Lyon
Guest Writer

Deidre Prosen’s totems, on display at the Gender Resource Center beginning October 31, are quirky hot pink and gilt meditations
on contemporary society, consumerism, violence.and war, and gender. These plastic votive totems assembled from baby doll faces and limbs, tiny
soldier men, discarded makeup, hair balls, and costume jewelry take their kitsch seriously. The eyeballs that surface here and there
ask the audience to take them seriously, too. In every piece at least one figure or mirror stares back at
the viewer. The acrylic paint is worked up to the consistency and gleam of nail polish. Hair balls serve as
memento moris to remind us that the things we throw away as trash sloughed off are really evidence of our
own mortality; these hair ball “offerings” cause the viewer to pause and to consider the refuse made sacred. In Prosen’s
work, high heels become as threatening and ominous as plastic guns and toy soldiers. Gender, sex, and reproduction are foregrounded
in Prosen’s totems with an insistent query. One pink totem seems to demand that the viewer answer her question. At
the same time, a background medieval-style diaper patterning addresses the question of reproducing in an overpopulated world. A shovel full
of babies thrusts out at the viewer from the center of the piece to show the pressure put on women
to have or to not have children. A sovereign cupie doll stares coyly from the top of the totem and
single-packaged pepto bismol pills express the nausea induced by such pressure. Another piece also forces the viewer to confront issues
of reproduction. This time in overwhelming red, eight smiling baby doll faces peer at the viewer as they guard packs
of birth control pills. Meanwhile, two insistently phallic bananas thrust forward out of circles of hair and eyes and red-stained
high heels poise aggressively. In the center, an organic fetal form bears voodoo stabs from pearl-headed sewing pins.

Through the process of making these totems, Prosen takes the plastic junk we throw away and gives it a new
life through totem resurrection. In discussing her work, Prosen comments that the totems seek to resurrect and respect what has
been made, used up, and tossed away. Though the totems’ themes reflect on heavy topics, Prosen’s handling of these themes
leaves the viewer with a feeling of energy.

Arts & LIVING
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

By Trey Davis

Three of a Kind

Across
1. Cut
5. Give off
9. Richard’s shamed VP
14. Eddie’s Beverly Hills Cop role
15. Spanish grade
16. Wall painting
17. Famous movie trilogy
19. Astound
20. Terminate
21. Word with school
22. Jets
23. Traffic violations
24. Physicist Bohr
25. “It On The Mountain”
28. Hurts
29. Airwaves board (abbr.)
32. Get up
33. Spanish is
34. Heart’s partner
35. Famous movie trilogy
38. Deer
39. Club fees
40. Body
41. Snake’s comment?
42. Cones’ counterparts
43. Entertains
44. Muck
45. Solidify
46. NYC borough
49. Dreyfuss movie
50. Health club
53. Russian mountains
54. Famous movie trilogy
56. Concur
57. “Fine.”
58. Where to find watermelons
59. Wipes out
60. Tennis breakdowns
61. Worker insects

Down
1. Book part
2. Neuron part
3. Actor Foxx
4. Keebler employee?
5. Consist of
6. Actor Jay et al.
7. Newspaper piece
8. Feather’s partner
9. Back sections
10. Cougars
11. Tehran’s country
12. Tear down
13. Spanish cheers
18. Talisman
22. Rice dish
23. Student work areas
24. PMs, on a marquee
25. Actor Kaplan and slugger Kapler
26. Certain tests
27. Lyme disease bugs
28. Phoenix’s source
29. Golf groups
30. Damn
31. Egyptian princess for short
33. Musical piece
34. Squat
36. Smells
37. My For His Highest
42. Flushes with water
43. Bon Jovi song
44. Fight
45. Gem measurement
46. Campus area
47. Desire
48. James___ Jones
49. Fat man’s partner
50. Epidermis
51. Two cups
52. Summer drinks
54. Wins a boxing match
55. Peron
