THE DAVIDSONIAN

Continued from page 1

Dr. Anderson believes this mentality is understandable when one considers the alienation and dislocation that many poor African-Americans suffer. Dr. Anderson also brought to life many prejudices that young black males suffer daily. He explained how simple tasks like shopping can be difficult for black males because they are constantly watched and suspected of stealing. Dr. Anderson’s own son has been harassed by cops several times merely because he drives a nice car.

Dr. Anderson informed listeners that 102,500 jobs have been lost in Philadelphia, while important safety nets like welfare are being cut. Without stable jobs available, many African-Americans in Philadelphia’s ghettos turn to underground activities such as crime, drugs, and prostitution. Selling crack cocaine has become an alternative form of income for many of the downtrodden. Dr. Anderson brought to the listener’s attention the gravity of the situation for African-Americans when he explained that one third of African-Americans between the age of twenty and thirty are in jail or on parole. He suggested that if the situation were reversed, and one third of white men in that age group were in jail, it would be deemed a national crisis.

As an ethnographer, Dr. Anderson goes into communities and talks with individuals. He has spent time in a wide variety of urban settings, from Philadelphia’s laundromats to its crack houses. By spending time with deprived African-Americans, Dr. Anderson has come to understand their violence and social codes. Because of the intense competition in the inner city ghettos, violence serves as a mediating force, especially because police tend to have a passive role in these areas. The violence that Dr. Anderson observed has special rules and social codes. For example, he described fists as “dancing.” Dr. Anderson explained how similar codes of fighting have been present throughout history, but now the consequences have increased with the availability of guns.

Dr. Anderson illustrated how African-Americans living in ghettos believe that they cannot trust the police. Two recent incidents of police shootings of unarmed black men demonstrate how the mistrust of police is generated. Dr. Anderson explained an incident in New York City where an African man named Amadou Diallo was shot 41 times although he was unarmed. He asked listeners to question incidents like this one and to try to understand why many African-Americans would blame the police in trials such as the O.J. Simpson trial. Although Dr. Anderson believes that O.J. Simpson is guilty, he acknowledges the African-American community’s sentiments of victory over a discriminate police system.

Dr. Anderson brought to light many issues relevant to the social conditions in America’s inner cities. He asked listeners to try to understand the alienation of African-Americans living in ghettos. Dr. Anderson has written many books and articles on related topics. "Street Wise: Race, Class and Change in an Urban Community," "A Place in the Corner: A Study of Black Street Corner Men," and "Of Old Heads and Young Boys: Notes on the Urban Black Experience" have been a few of his influential works.

News briefs
By Derek Politzer
Staff Writer

3-5-99: After regulators discovered potentially hazardous amounts of lead in Nike brand children’s shoes, Nike was forced to recall 110,000 pairs. President Clinton said Friday that he does not resent Monica Lewinsky’s efforts to turn their affair into a money-making scheme and that he hopes she has “a good life.” In a harshly worded statement, China said that U.S. backing for a UN resolution lambasting China’s human rights efforts would seriously harm Sino-U.S. relations. Britain is stepping up its efforts to resolve the escalating trade war between the United States and the European Union (EU) over banana imports. The U.S. has imposed sweeping tariffs on a variety of goods imported from EU countries because of a perceived bias against U.S. banana exports.

3-6-99: President Clinton is urging the Senate to accept his education proposal, which would re-

From the archives

From the March 23, 1979 Davidsonian: RLO announced which halls would be female and male halls for the 1979-1980 school year. They had to make changes in which halls would be male or female due to the admission of 390 students, the largest freshman class in Davidson history. Basement, first, second, and third Belk would be all male freshman.Halls, and Richardson, which had been a traditionally male dorm, would be all freshwomen. Upperclassmen males would be housed in Watts, 4th Belk, Duke, 1st and 2nd Little, and Sentelle. Upperclassmen women would be housed in Cannon, 3rd and 4th Little, and basement Richardson. Little was at that time the only coed dorm on campus, but RLO stated that they would consider making other dorms coed as well if there was student interest.

From the March 15, 1974 Davidsonian:

On March 6, 1974, 15 men from 3rd Cannon put on ski masks and dark glasses and then streaked across campus. They announced their plans before going through with them, so that anyone who would be offended would know to stay out of their path. The 3rd Cannon hall counselor, Mark Connors, said that streaking was just a fad that they wanted to try out. There was a streaker at a PiKA party the Saturday before, but he was so drunk that he ran into a wall and passed out, without anyone noticing him.

The stolen money was used to finance the "Aryan Nation." After Albanian rebels agreed to sign a peace accord which would end the war in Kosovo, U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke flew to Belgrade to urge Milosevic to do the same.

3-9-99: After dumping over a foot of snow in the Midwest, a late winter storm pounded the Northeast and the Mid-Atlantic states with heavy snow, closing schools, tying up traffic, and stranding airline passengers.

Vice President Al Gore announced a proposal that would expand airline passenger rights, enabling them to receive compensation for botched trips. In the wake of daily U.S. airstrikes against Iraq because of continued assaults against U.S. and British planes monitoring the no-fly zones, Qatar has signaled that it opposes the U.S.’s continued use of force.

3-10-99: President Clinton admitted that the U.S. was wrong to support the widespread repression that occurred during the 36-year Guatemalan Civil War. Elizabeth Dole formed a presidential exploratory group today to raise money and to assess her candidacy. Milosevic definitively rejected the U.S. peace proposal over the war in Kosovo, as ethnic Albanians likewise shied away from signing the accord.

3-11-99: President Clinton pledged fairer immigration policies toward Central America but reasserted the U.S.’s stiff opposition to illegal immigration, because he feels it undermines the entire system. According to the Centers for Disease Control, E. coli cases rose sharply in 1998. E. coli is the deadly strain of bacteria usually found in ground beef. The House of Representatives voted to send U.S. troops to Kosovo on a peacekeeping mission if both sides agree to sign the peace accord. Iranian President Khatami met with Italian Prime Minister D’Alema and the Pope in an effort to boost bilateral relations between Iran and Italy and to engage in a “dialogue of civilizations.”

3-12-99: NATO formally admitted Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Poland today in a celebration in Independence, Missouri. Russia has continued to voice its opposition to the move.

Dr. Glenn Lindsey was quoted saying, “This streaking is just a temporary thing, it will peter out in a week.” Time has proved him wrong though, as there are still occasional occurrences of streaking, such as the other week when the brothers of KA decided to streak the campus-wide formal.