10 THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Kenneth Noland
donates painting

By JON CHUN
Staff Writer

Kenneth Noland, an accomplished contemporary artist, has recently donated one of his paintings to the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center. His painting is located in between the two staircases leading up to the second floor. It is a very subdued painting, almost unnoticeable, as it blends in well with the wall. The banner-like painting is streaked with various colors... almost like a horizontal rainbow but with a rearrangement of colors.

Mr. Noland was born in Asheville, NC and studied art at Black Mountain College in North Carolina. His impressive and extensive resume includes such distinctions as teaching at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Washington D.C. and receiving the North Carolina Award in Fine Arts in 1995. His connection to Davidson comes from his reception of the Doctor of Fine Arts honorary degree given by Davidson College in 1997. His donation has been very graciously accepted and is a very welcome sight at the Visual Arts Center. If you would like to learn more about Kenneth Noland, you can check out http://www.sharecom.ca/noland/.

Arts & LIVING

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999

Hurricane Hugo Festival:

East Coast Jugglers converge on Davidson

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Davidson College will host some of the most talented object manipulators in the nation September 10-12, 1999, when the College Union hosts the Tenth Annual Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival. All persons interested in juggling, or in learning to juggle, are invited to participate in the weekend's shows, workshops, and juggling games.

The Charlotte Jugglers Association held the first Hugo Festival in 1990, in recollection of that frightful night in 1989 when Hurricane Hugo blew through, sending objects flying through the sky in an uncontrolled cascade of fury! It is one of about 50 annual weekend festivals hosted by juggling clubs across the nation and should attract participants from as far away as Florida and New York. Some are professional performers, and others are dedicated amateurs. The most skilled among them will be close to world record levels, with the ability to cascade (briefly) 10 balls, seven clubs, and 11 rings.

The major Hugo Festival activities include a midnight fire juggling display to conclude the College Union’s campus-wide “Lunar Luau” party on Friday night, a Saturday morning “learn to juggle” session for the general public on the Davidson Village Green, and a Saturday night show featuring the Charlotte comedy juggling team, The Fettucini Brothers. The festival will conclude Sunday afternoon with juggling games. Davidson students will be active in the festival. About 50 per year take a juggling course to help fulfill their physical education requirement.

Headquarters for the event will be the College Union on the Davidson campus, with registration beginning at 3 p.m. on Friday, Sept. 10. Those who pay a $15 registration fee will receive tickets to a Saturday night pizza party and the Saturday night show. However, unregistered visitors are welcome at any time to visit the College Union to view activities and participate in workshops.

Saturday’s public juggling lessons on the Village Green in downtown Davidson run from 9 a.m.-noon. Visitors will receive free water-injected tennis balls for practice and as take-home souvenirs and will be treated to juggling performances throughout the morning.

Juggling will continue in the Union from noon-8 p.m., when the Fettucini Brothers (Steve Langley and Sean Sullivan) will present their comedy juggling show. The Fettucinis have performed at fairs, college campuses, on the high seas, on national television, and in Japan. They also helped found the Hugo Festival in 1989. For show tickets, call the College Union at 892-2140, or get tickets at the door.

On Sunday, juggling will be held in the College Union from 10 a.m. — 3 p.m., and then jugglers will move to the Davidson Village Green for the regular Sunday afternoon session there until 5 p.m.

For more information on the festival, contact Bill Giduz; Box 443; Davidson NC 28036; 704/892-1296 (h); bgiduz19@mail.idu.net.

THE HONEYBAKED HAM CO. AND CAFÉ

Discover The Best Sandwich in town:

The HoneyBaked Ham Co. and Café

20609 Torrence Chapel Rd., Southlake Shopping Center

892-9592

Monday — Friday, 10 a.m.—7 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.

Davidson College Student I.D. Special

Free Beverage and Home-Style Cookie

OR
Free Beverage and Deli Salad

When you buy any HoneyBaked sandwich after 4:00 p.m. weekdays and all day Saturday. Just show us your student I.D.

Offer good through September 1999.