DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN
“Your Foremost College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

Good-bye Pollux, hello Outlook.
NEWS 4

Let's slam Wes, shall we?
OPINIONS 8

Davidson trio release their first CD
A&L 11

Eliza Shuford ’01 beats Olympic silver medalist
SPORTS 14

Junior dies in accident abroad
By Kelsey Cantrell, LINDSAY MEYERS, AND CARRIE ARTHUR
Guest Writers and News Editor

On April 4, Junior David Farrington tragically died in Queensland, Australia. Two other Davidson students, Jay Cantrell ’00 and Lee
Hardee ’00, were with Farrington at Cedar Creek Falls, a popular swimming hole, where they were jumping off a waterfall.
Farrington was studying abroad for the spring semester at the University of Queensland in Brisbane. He had been in Australia
since late February and had planned to return in July. He visited the park during his spring break from the
University.

A biology major from Oakdale, Connecticut, Farrington was a SigEp brother, and he was involved in intramural sports at Davidson.
He took flickerball particularly seriously, and his flickerball team has won the championship for the past three years. He also
coached the Second Center Belk team during the fall semester.

A memorial service was held on Thursday, April 8, at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Austin Rice-Stitt ’00, Aaron Dunham ’00,
Tim Laramy ’00, and Scott Herr ’00 shared memories and reflections of their friendship with Farrington here at Davidson. Michael
Fresina, Farrington’s cousin and a Davidson alumnus, represented the Farrington family and provided insight about Farrington’s childhood. A reception was
held in DCPC after the service, where those close to David had a chance for further support and reflection. Services
in Connecticut are still pending, and the University of Queensland will also hold a service for Davidson students studying abroad
and other friends he had met there. More information about Farrington’s life will be included in the next Davidsonian.

Jason Prince receives Smith Scholarship
By CARLOS-ANDRES LACAYO AND ASHLEY E. KING
Staff Writer and News Editor

The first student to earn such a distinction, Jason Prince ’99 received the recently created Smith Scholarship designed for post-graduate
study in a foreign university. Davidson alumnus Tom Smith ’48 founded the scholarship with a million-dollar gift to the school,
in order to acknowledge one graduating senior’s exceptional academic accomplishments, service, and leadership. This year, the scholarship will finance Prince’s
academic efforts at the Cambridge Masters of Philosophy program in American Literature, where he will study for two consecutive semesters.

Distinguished by numerous accolades, Prince was chosen for the scholarship by the Smith Scholarship Selection Committee. His honors include being
one of 20 national USA Today “All USA Academic All-Americans” and being a regional finalist for the Rhodes Scholarship. His
list of scholarships also includes the McGaw Scholarship, the John I. Smith Scholarship, the National Honor Society Scholarship, the Tylenol
Youth Scholarship, and the Discover Card Gold Tribute Award Scholarship.

As a student at Davidson, Prince has been extremely active in life on and off campus. He was involved as
both a hall counselor and resident advisor. Serving as co-captain for the team for the last two years, he has
been very successful throughout his four-year commitment to swimming at Davidson. Off-campus, Prince carried his involvement in swimming even farther,
becoming vice president of the athletes’ executive committee of United States Swimming. He also edited that committee’s journal entitled “United
States Swimming Athletes’ Quarterly.”

In the Davidson community, he founded the Davidson Special Needs Mentoring Program, the main purpose of which was to promote
interaction between Davidson students and mentally and physically handicapped students at Mooresville High School and North Mecklenburg High School. In
Charlotte, Prince has participated in service projects in Hispanic communities.

Prince decided upon the Cambridge program because he is an English major who aspires to become involved in law where
he would be “looking toward civic leadership roles.”In law, Prince has considered several different career options including politics and the
non-profit sector. “Wherever I’m most useful is where I want to be,” he said. Prince, who wrote his senior thesis
on Hemingway’s early literary career, also wished to continue his study of the work of Ernest Hemingway in Cambridge. Even
before his senior year, he had expressed an avid interest in junior year in studying the prestigious author. After choosing
his program, Prince worked vigorously to obtain the scholarship, submitting a written proposal that included his future goals and his
motivation for wanting to study abroad. Offering advice to students applying for scholarships, Prince said, “Students interested in applying for
scholarships and fellowships need to treat the application process like a fifth course. The time you put into writing personal
statements, crafting your resume, and preparing for interviews should equal the time devoted to writing academic papers, preparing for classroom
presentations. Even if everything doesn’t work out, the application process allows for personal growth that is worth as much as
any scholarship.”

Awarded to Prince for the first time this year, the Smith Scholarship will continue to provide exceptional Davidson students with
an opportunity to continue their studies abroad in years to come.

Women’s Month Celebrated
By AMANDA L. MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

Every March, Davidson celebrates women for thirty-one days during Women’s Month. This year, the official programming began on March 11
and ended on March 31. It included some new activities as well as traditional events from previous years. Women’s Month
kicked off with an opening ceremony featuring performances by the Delilahs and the Dance Troupe. The Women’s Issues Committee then
hosted activities for nearly every day of the month, ranging from discussions on sexuality to lectures from women on campus
and alumni. Alumnae Lauren Smith and Mary Kinkaid as well as Dr. Mary Thornberry were among the featured speakers.

The events included a bonfire on March 17 and Take Back the Night on March 18. The bonfire allowed students
to destroy articles they felt were confining to women. These oppressive objects included paper, bras, and make-up. The annual Take
Back the Night gave survivors of sexual assault and rape an opportunity to share their experiences with the community. This
year, the event featured three women who spoke about their personal experiences with violence and included a speech from Meredith
Beattie ’01 about Rape Awareness. Following the official event, students tied red ribbons to a tree and then met for
refreshments. Dr. Annie Ingram, one of the coordinators for this year’s events, commented that the refreshments in the 900 Room
after Take Back the Night offered a great way for the audience to process the information with the speakers. This
year was the first time that a reception in the 900 Room followed the event so that students could relax
and try to process all the emotions from the night.

Women’s Month officially ended on Wednesday, March 31. Students and staff gathered outside the Gender Resource Center for the Lighting
the Darkness closing vigil. After a few opening words, the Dance Troupe performed for the audience, and then the walk
began. Deya Murray ’00 led the crowd to the first point on the walk and planted a stake outside Richardson
dorm. She spoke about sexual abuse and rape, citing many of the emotions a survivor goes through: “Was it what
I wore? What I didn’t wear? Was it what I said? What I didn’t say?” Murray spoke about the importance
of recognizing the problem of sexual assault and rape in the community in order to alleviate and solve the problem.
