THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Caper Howard
Guest Writer

The Preministerial Committee will host a Theological Education Day at Davidson Thursday, November 11, and representatives of 16 theological schools
from around the country will be present to talk to students. From 2:00 p.m. until 4:30 p.m., an Open House
will be held in Chambers Gallery, providing the opportunity for students to speak with the representatives of the various seminaries
and divinity schools and gather information. From 4:30 to 5:30, admission officers for the theological institutions and recent Davidson graduates
attending a seminary or divinity school will comprise a panel to discuss “Theological Education in the Next Century.”

Dr. John Kuykendall, President Emeritus and religion professor, notes the importance of the Theological Education Day, “These are institutions which
send representatives to the campus each year. We have asked them to come on the same day this year to
provide students with the opportunity to visit with several schools at the same time, and to provide for the sort
of interaction about theological education—both practically and theoretically—that the panel discussion will provide.”

The theological schools that will be represented include Austin, Candler (Emory), Columbia, Drew, Dubuque, Duke, Gordon-Conwell, Hood Seminary, Johnson C.
Smith Seminary, Louisville (Presbyterian), McCormick, Pittsburgh, Princeton, Union/PSCE, Vanderbilt, and Yale.

In fact, there are a number of faculty and staff at Davidson College who have received theological training and some
have been ordained. These individuals include President Bobby Vagt, professors Ed Palmer, Larry Ligo, Karl Plank, Trent Foley, William Mahoney,
John Kuykendall, and David Kaylor, deans Leslie Marsicano, Ernest Jeffries, and Leonard Satterwhite, Robert Norfleet, Julius Melton, and of course
Chaplain Rob Spach and Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia.

Some faculty and staff members have expressed their views on the importance of a theological education. Davidson College Chaplain Rob
Spach comments, “At a time when we are in a world where people of many religious traditions are living side
by side and trying to get along, my own theological education gave me a lot of perspective on the many
forms the Christian church has taken over the years, and it helped me to realize that we always have to
approach people who believe differently or worship differently than ourselves with respect and appreciation, realizing that we are inheritors of
a long tradition that often looked very different from how it looks today.”

Dean Leslie Marsicano reflects, “My theological education impacts everything I do in my job because it shaped my understanding of
myself, others, our relationships to each other and our relationships to God. These views directly shape how I do my
job.” When dealing with students in disciplinary matters, Dean Marsicano begins with the viewpoint that “we are children of a
reconciling and renewing God who works for good in all things.” She seeks to “find the hope and chance for
renewal in the situation.”

Dean Ernest Jeffries added, “My theological education has brought me to realize that what I do at Davidson is very
similar to ministry. At Davidson, my job is to work with students on a personal level in a way that
affects and shapes them as people. I see that being very similar to the pastoral vocation in that a pastor
also is responsible for pouring into the lives of people in that same way.”

Dr. Ed Palmer, a psychology professor at Davidson, has graduate training in both theology and psychology. “That privilege has given
me a deep respect for the commonalities found within these two backgrounds,” Palmer said. “For example, in the study of
personality, mental health is equated with elements such as social interest.”Theology, at its best, finds this component in spiritual health
as well. Palmer continues, “Beyond such commonalities, the blend of educational backgrounds has given me an ecumenical appreciation that reaches
well beyond denominations, factions, and ‘isms.’ It also gives me a deep respect for the individual’s spiritual journey, wherever that
may lead. In the final analysis, ‘tis ‘by their fruits that we shall (truly) know.’”

Candidate for this position. You must be:
Salary: $17.50 per hour

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS SEEKING PAID TUTORS

THE AVID PROGRAM (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION), a program designed to prepare middle grades 6-12 for four-year college and university
entry and success. If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed
below, you are a candidate for this position.

You must be:
- Enrolled in a college or university with good academic standing
- Able to work in a supportive manner with middle level and high school students and teachers
- Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
- Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
- Willing to receive three hours training in the AVID teaching methodologies
- An excellent role model for motivated, organized, and successful students
- Representative of a balanced academic background

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year

For additional information, please complete and return to the following:
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street, Suite 506
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1999

Davidson Outdoors presents Into the Woods Day today
By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

The Davidson Outdoors program is planning several events for Wednesday, November 10, in recognition of a special Into the Woods
Day. What would have been an Into the Woods Week was postponed until next semester in hopes that students would
have more time early in the spring semester to enjoy a full week of activities, said organizer Kurt Yusi ’00.
Nonetheless, Wednesday will be full of opportunities for students to take a break from their studies.

First, Davidson Outdoors is cosponsoring a trio of Southern nature writers along with the Environmental Action Coalition and the English
and Biology departments. The authors will participate in a panel discussion at 3:30 in the Union followed by readings at
7:30. Both are open to the public. After the readings, there will be a reception and book signing in the
Homeroom. Following the reception, Davidson Outdoors will provide an “outdoor coffee house” on the front lawn of Chambers. Students can
listen to stories and music from campus talents while sipping cider, hot chocolate, or coffee. Finally, all interested participants can
spend a night out on the lawn. Students are invited to camp out under a tarp provided by Davidson Outdoors.
Some sleeping bags will be provided, but anyone wishing to use one is advised to call ahead and reserve it.

Wednesday also marks the beginning of the community bike program. In an effort to provide healthy, environmentally friendly transportation to
members of the college community at no cost, Davidson Outdoors will begin keeping several bicycles outside of the Union. These
bikes will be painted red and can be used by anyone on campus.

(704) 343-6975
Mon-Thu 9-8
Fri 9-7
Sat 9-5

Mailing Address:
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Corner of I-77 & Exit 28
Cornelius

INNER HAIR CARE
Expert Hair Services
Relaxing Manicures & Pedicures
Soothing Facials
Complete Wax Hair Removal
Total Body Massage
Hydro-therapy room
