By Bro Krirr
Sports Commentary

Davidson lost on Saturday, but they had to be happy. As the team left the court suffering their second loss in three games, the Appalachian student section poured onto the court in jubilation. They danced, hugged, and cheered, but their excitement seemed to miss the point. Sure, they just won the Northern Division title, but no one held their index finger high over their head declaring supremacy. No one chanted “We’re number one.” Instead, they continually pointed towards the Davidson fans. They taunted the 300 dressed in red and black as they left Varsity Gymnasium. A win over Davidson was all they wanted. The Mountaineers had lost nine of the previous ten and the last five to the Wildcats. Coach Buzz Peterson called the game “the biggest win of his career.” The biggest of his career! Could anything make a Davidson fan feel more pride in a loss?

Yet the game seemed inconsequential to the Wildcats. Sure, they would have won the title for the fourth straight year, but how important is such a feat? Floor general Ali Ton was cleared to play on Saturday, but with the first-round tournament bye already guaranteed, Coach Bob McKillop decided to rest him. The Mountaineers had been the underdogs all season, and an improbable win against the Wildcats demanded the students to rush the court. Teams all year have made the Wildcats a target, and throughout conference play, they have been the hunted. Fans star the game on the schedule, making sure they attend. So Davidson, please don’t hang your heads. You are still the team to beat in the Southern Conference. Just ask Appalachian State. On Saturday, the Mountaineer fans forgot the last dance is the best dance.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
By STEPHEN CEFALU
Sports Writer

Appalachian State head coach Buzz Peterson called it the biggest win of his career. Before a packed house at Varsity Gymnasium in Boone last Saturday afternoon, Peterson’s Mountaineers humbled the ‘Cats 71-64, and thereby claimed exclusive rights to the 1998-99 regular season crown in the Southern Conference’s North Division. It marks the first time since 1994-95 that the ‘Cats have finished anywhere but atop the North Division at season’s end. The win grants Appalachian State (19-7, 13-3) the #1 seed in the bracket opposite that of their counterparts from the South Division, the College of Charleston, in this weekend’s Southern Conference tournament. For Davidson (16-10, 11-5), the loss means that they will likely face the College of Charleston a bit earlier than anticipated in the tournament. Barring a loss in their respective quarterfinal match-ups on Friday, Davidson and the College of Charleston will square off in the semifinal round in Greensboro on Saturday.

“It was a hard-fought, nip and tuck affair in a tremendous basketball environment,” said Wildcat head coach Bob McKillop in Saturday’s post-game. Matt McMahon’s buzzer-beating three-pointer at the end of the first half gave Appalachian State a 41-34 edge heading to the locker room. McMahon finished with 17 points on the day, shooting 9-19 from the field. In the second half, the ‘Cats rallied and were able to grab the lead thanks in large part to the offensive contributions of low post specialists Stephen Marshall and Chadd Holmes. Marshall finished with a game-high 18 points despite playing only 18 minutes due to foul trouble. Holmes contributed eight points, finishing 4-5 from the field.

For the second time in three games, foul calls plagued the ‘Cats, who lost the services of not only Stephen Marshall, but Davor Halbauer, Landry Kosmalski, and Ben Ebong for significant portions of time in the contest due to the high frequency of whistles. The ‘Cats were given only 11 free throw opportunities in the game (of which they converted seven), while the Mountaineers were granted 31 (of which they knocked down 19). That being the case, the ‘Cats still held their fate in their own hands with just over a minute to go in the game when they led 62-60. A three-pointer that would have given Davidson a commanding five-point lead instead rattled and then fell off the back cylinder of the rim, and moments later, Matt McMahon’s own three-point attempt went straight through the net to give the Mountaineers a 63-62 edge. Thisedge the Mountaineers would not relinquish. “I thought some of our three-point shot selections were premature,” said McKillop. “When the game was ripe for the taking, we simply didn’t take it.”

One extremely positive note for the Wildcats on Saturday was the performance of freshman point guard Michael Bree. Filling in for Ali Ton, who was still nursing an eye injury suffered back on February 13th, Bree totaled 10 points, six assists, five rebounds, and four steals. “Michael played an excellent basketball game. He really grew up today,” said McKillop of the Sligo, Ireland native. “It will help us in the tournament to know we have two point guards we can rely on.”

McKillop firmly believes his gritty 1998-99 squad has yet to have its final say. “This is a smart basketball team, a team that learns from its setbacks and matures. There was no question about effort today. Their effort was superb.”

Besides Matt McMahon, Davidson has been without the services of the nation’s third-leading assist man, Ali Ton, for the past week. The Mountaineers had three other players in double figures on Saturday. Marshall Phillips finished with 14 points, Tyson Patterson had 12, and Cedrick Holmes contributed 11.

Ton-less ‘Cats take Terriers
By Bro Krirt
Staff Writer

Three agonizing bounces upon the rim with six seconds on the clock decided the outcome of a 67-66 victory Monday night for the Davidson Wildcats against Wofford College. Terrier guard Ian Chadwick received an outlet pass and pounded up the court with one man to beat, Michael Bree. Down by two, 65-63, he stormed by Bree and laid the ball off the backboard. It hit the iron... bounce... bounce... bounce and then caromed out. Davidson’s Emeka Erege stretched for the rebound and Wofford’s Colon Largent immediately fouled, sending Erege to the line for a 1-1 opportunity.

Erege connected on both, scoring Davidson’s last points and sealing the victory. “We’re lucky,” said Coach Bob McKillop. “A great shooter like Chadwick missing that shot. Have you ever seen a closer miss?”

Despite coming off a disappointing loss on Senior Day and playing without the service of starting point guard Ali Ton, the Wildcats hung tough in Johnson Arena. “It seemed so easy to feel sorry for ourselves,” said McKillop. “We didn’t. That was a tremendous effort tonight.”

Ton was unable to play after falling victim to a ruptured eye in last Saturday’s loss to East Tennessee State. He had started 82 of the previous 83 games for Coach McKillop’s squad. Doctors’ orders kept Ton from making the trip to Spartanburg. Listening to the broadcast over the radio, Ton received a bit of coaching in McKillop’s post-game remarks: “Michael (Bree) played well,” he said.

Bree definitely listened to his mentor’s season-long teachings. One of four Wildcats in double figures, Bree scored 11 points in his first career start. He looked obviously nervous in the game’s initial minutes, but he settled down in the second half to control the game’s rhythm while leading the offensive attack. His newfound patience and confidence helped Davidson overcome an eight-point halftime deficit. In the second half, the Wildcats effectively passed out of low post double teams, continually finding the open man, slashing to the hoop for the easy lay-in.

“We didn’t have Ali and our offensive movement was as good as all year,” said McKillop. Landy Kosmalski led all players with nine rebounds as Davidson commanded the boards, pulling down 45 to the Terriers’ 24. More importantly, Kosmalski scored his one-thousandth career point. He became the first junior since Janko Narat in 1994 to accomplish this feat.

OTS and Duke University offer field-oriented, science-based undergraduate semester abroad and summer programs.
Fall Semester: Aug 31 - Dec 13
Summer Program: May 31 - June 28
CREDITS MAY BE TRANSFERRED FROM DUKE UNIVERSITY

For more information contact OTS:
# 919 684-5774
e-mail: enao@acpub.duke.edu
http://www.ots.duke.edu

Application deadlines:
Fall: March 10
Summer: Feb 26

A consortium of universities providing international research and the responsible use of natural resources.