5% LJ S 3 O,R 3B S x »*4 Wildcats defeat Furman to sweep season series and climb into fourth place.

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

This one was for those who didn’t believe.

O’Brien sinks a jumper.

Pulling out of a dry spell during which the Wildcats dropped three of five late-season conference games, John Filar’s Wildcats defeated Furman University’s Lady Paladins on Saturday afternoon in Greenville.

Davidson started slow, turning the ball over six times while scoring only five points in the first five minutes of the game. Furman capitalized on Wildcat turnovers and sub-par shooting to jump out to a 28-12 lead in the first half. Filar called a time-out, and implored his athletes: “We did not come down here to do this!” The ‘Cats then went on a 24-6 run and pulled within a bucket, 36-34, at the buzzer.

Kerry Brown paced the ‘Cats with 12 first-half points. Her sister Jamie added 8, and Janna Magette came off the bench to contribute 7. Led by a flawless shooting performance from Kerry Brown (18 points, 7-7 FG, 4-4 FT), and Magette’s 4-of-8 from the three-point arc, Davidson pulled away from All-America candidate Jackie Smith and Furman in the second period.

“Not surprised at all,” said point guard Jen O’Brien of Kerry Brown’s perfection on the night. “Kerry is such a solid player. She has no fear, she goes right to the basket. She did everything, on offense and defense, tonight.”

Davidson held Smith, who is leading the Southern Conference with almost 22 points and nine rebounds per game, to but sixteen points on the night. “One of our goals for the day was not to lose Jackie at all on defense,” said Kerry Brown. “There was a lot of communication out on the court between the posts and the perimeter defenders, and we did a good job of containing her.”

Scoring nearly 80 points per game on 47% shooting, the Wildcat offense ranks among the nation’s twenty best. But in the five games leading up to Saturday’s, the ‘Cats had been slumping to an average of only 63 points per game. On Saturday, Kerry Brown and company shot 58% from the floor and 70% from the charity stripe while dominating Furman both in the posts and on the perimeter. Davidson knocked down four three-pointers on the afternoon, all four from freshman sharpshooter Magette.

“When Janna’s hitting them,” said O’Brien, “I don’t think anyone can hit them any better. And she also drew that critical charge against Jackie (Smith) and came through with a ton of steals. Her whole game was just money tonight.”

“Janna was the one in the first half that should get the credit for sparking us and turning things around,” praised Kerry Brown. “Not only her shooting, but her defense was awesome as well.”

Twelve Wildcats saw floor time, seven of them over ten minutes worth. Kim Taylor and Jessica Heath both played some strong minutes in the post, helping to contain the Lady Paladins’ dominant post players, Kena Hodges and Jackie Smith. Smith was last year’s Southern Conference Player of the Year, and was co-recipient along with Jen O’Brien for pre-season player of the year recognition for this season.

It was not the luckiest of weeks for Jess Montrella. The senior fouled out with only four points last Monday, though she did score her 1000th career point. On Saturday, Montrella roared back with 14 points in 38 solid minutes of floor time, only to be inadvertently tripped by a Paladin defender with less than a minute to play. Montrella slammed her forehead on the hardwood, splitting a cut above her right eye that required seven stitches.

Furman marks the first time in Wildcat basketball history that Davidson has beaten the Lady Paladins twice in the same season. Furthermore, the win guarantees Davidson their fourth consecutive winning season. No other team in the Southern Conference has done the same. That accomplishment offers some perspective for the contributions of Davidson’s Class of 1999—Jess Montrella, and Jamie and Kerry Brown, all from Pennsylvania. In the two seasons leading up to their admission to Davidson, the Wildcats had a combined 0-21 conference mark. Over the Class of ‘99’s four seasons in red & black, Davidson has been the most consistent.

Vr. Jimmy MagetteC4 Jamie Brown on the run, winning program in the Southern Conference. “It’s a tribute to these seniors,” said Carter Kelly. “They’ve been a hundred percent dedicated, and they really have built this program up. Our team’s goal and purpose is to finish this season strong for them.” The win moves Davidson into the fourth seed position in the Southern Conference with just two regular season conference games to play.

Men drop late-season conference game to ETSU, swept by Bucs for first time in fifteen years.

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

With just one week remaining in the regular season and Davidson in a dead heat against Appalachian State for the North Division regular season championship, the Wildcat machinery sputtered and then stalled against East Tennessee State last Saturday night. Davidson and ASU entered the weekend tied atop the North Division with identical conference records of 10-3. But ETSU handed Davidson their fourth conference loss of the season, improving the Bucs’ record to 9-5. The loss marked only Davidson’s second in ten games. ETSU swept the season series with Davidson for the first time since the ‘82-’83 season. The Wildcats shot 40% from the floor and a dismal 57% from the charity stripe, compared to ETSU’s 46% and 68%, respectively.

“I’d like to credit East Tennessee for playing a superb defensive game,” said Coach Bob McKillop. “They completely negated our ability to score on the interior.”

It would be fair to say that the men in the zebra stripes played an active role on the night. While the teams made a combined 48 field goals on the evening, the officials whistled in 62 fouls, contributing to 77 free throw attempts and nearly a two and a half hour game.

“Rhythm did not exist tonight for us,” commented McKillop. “Maybe the rhythm did not exist tonight because there were 62 fouls called. We never got into an offensive rhythm because the game was continually stopped and we never were able to score in the post. We were unable to score out of our transition game, and (ETSU) always answered. They always put us on our heels, and we were constantly digging out of a hole.”

ETSU led 35-31 at the half, and pulled away with about three minutes to play in the game on a pair of 3-point field goals from Gabe Lisicky. “You give up six points on two possessions like that, it makes things difficult,” admitted McKillop.

Senior Ali Ton (who was honored on Senior Night along with classmates Ben Ebong and Chadd Holmes) apparently suffered an eye injury early in the contest, and continued the game with markedly impaired vision. The Turkish native was still able to contribute six assists on the night, maintaining his position as the third-leading assist man in the nation. Junior Davor Halbauer led the team in scoring with 16 points, 12 of them came on his four of eight shooting from behind the arc. Ben Ebong added 13 points and a game-high 11 rebounds.

With the loss, Davidson falls a game behind Appalachian State in the North Division standings. The ‘Cats will travel to Appalachian State on Saturday, and provided they beat Wofford last night and Appalachian this weekend, Davidson will still emerge as the top seed in the North Division.

“We have to respond to the adversity of not playing very good basketball,” said McKillop. “We have to reengage the trust in the system, and can’t deviate from it and can’t go off on a tangent thinking we have to change everything or create a new plan of attack. Our plan of attack system is very efficient and very good to us. We cannot panic at this point and think it’s the system that needs fixing.”

--Leila Wormuth (‘00), on hand Saturday for the ETSU vs. Davidson game.

Women’s Basketball
The junior center was awarded Southern Conference Player of the Week after an 18-point performance followed by a 25-point night.

Southern States Championships
Wednesday through Saturday
Baker Sports Complex

Wrestlers split recent contests........page 13
Men’s Basketball Defeats Ga. Southern...page 14
Swimmers prepare for Southern States.....page 14
Jessica Montrella Feature................page 16