10. THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MOVIE REVIEW

By BRYAN STEVINSON
Staff Writer

As I sat and watched David Koepp’s “Stir of Echoes,” I was not able to shake the nagging image of what Koepp, Kevin Bacon, and the other makers of “Stir of Echoes” said when “The Sixth Sense” premiered earlier this summer. Among other things, “Eek” must have sprang from their lips.

The viewer must give “Stir of Echoes” the benefit of the doubt, as it is based on Richard Matheson’s 1985 novel, and is similar to “The Sixth Sense” in basic premise only. But as the movie opens, Kevin Bacon’s son (Zachary David Cope) is in the bathtub playing with someone we can’t see. “Does it hurt to be dead?” he says to an empty room. Uh-oh, is what I thought. Another movie with a cute little kid that sees scary dead people. However, the film picks up considerably when Bacon is hypnotized by his sister-in-law (Ileana Douglas). The hypnotism, which mysteriously “opens his mind,” leads Bacon to start seeing dead people, too. At this point, as the music slips into that scratchy violin staccato that thrillers use to tell you you’re about to see something scary, I must confess that I tensed up and shrank in my seat. After 20 minutes or so, though, I relaxed because the movie settled into a well-crafted psychological mystery.

Unfortunately, anyone who’s seen a few television police dramas will solve the mystery long before the end. Director David Koepp’s adaptation of the story is far too predictable, but Bacon’s tenacious commitment to his character’s obsession holds the viewer’s interest. After his hypnotism, Bacon becomes entirely devoted to carrying out the things his ghost is telling him to do. He begins digging frantically. A tune he can’t identify sticks in his head. He plays the role brilliantly.

But the movie also falls into the common horror-movie syndrome of the characters putting themselves into danger for no particular reason. For example, after Bacon’s wife (Kathryn Erbe) has a chance encounter with a policeman that seems to know what's happening to her husband, she wanders into a dark alley in the middle of the night to find the policeman and force him to answer her questions. She gets her questions answered, all right, but the dangerous alleyway setup serves no purpose other than as a vehicle to get her questions answered. Who is the cop? Who are the people in the room behind him threatening Erbe? None of these questions are answered. Neither are many others.

Koepp constructs a beautiful movie — he knows how to use music and lighting and flashy edits to build tension — but the whole scene seems to be thrown together to give the audience a cheap thrill.

Yet despite all its shortcomings, the movie engaged me completely. And in the end, that alone makes it worth the price of admission.

---

s Hiring!!

Delivery Drivers and Counter Help Needed!

Meet Friends and Fight Campus Hunger in the Hub of Patterson Court.

For Information Call Dennis at 6404 or 2490 (Late at Night)