THE DAVIDSONIAN - I, for one, am sick and tired of this whole Presidential impeachment debate. It’s old news. Not to mention, it’s damn boring. Whatever happened to the days of the “Juice” and Nancy Kerrigan? Now that was news. “But Crabbie, this is the President of the United States we’re talking about. The ramifications are so far-reaching that every one of us might feel the effects.” So tar and feather me and parade me around campus... At this point, I care more about the lint between my toes. Anybody else out there with me? You should be, because as usual, I’m right (oh, don’t deny it, you know you missed me—that charming wit—who couldn’t?). The problem might not be that this is simply a boring story, although without a doubt I had my fill of reading about it right after I read page 69 of the “Starr Report.” The problem is that President Clinton didn’t do squat. “But Crabbie, the President of the United States LIED to us in a court of law, and then he even used his Presidential power to tell Monica Lewinsky not to tell anybody about it!” As far as I’m concerned, with that logic we should have impeached him when he told us he didn’t inhale. President Clinton lied. He lies. He will lie. Uh... oh... uh... oh, I think I feel a moral dilemma coming up... oh, no, that’s just the mushroom quesadillas at the Commons. News Flash—Politicians lie. (Incidentally, apparently so do some of my classmates. For the record, I never said “not enough of the Seniors are putting out” as one Trey Wilson and one Emily Eagan so vividly remember me saying. A memory so vivid to them, yet absolutely unmemorable to me, that they even decided to put it in print. I say we kick them out of Davidson for a semester. No, wait, that’s right, I don’t care. And for the record, nobody write in now saying that I don’t care about the honor code and what Davidson represents, because that is not what I’m saying. I’m saying that society has dictated that it is not in and of itself.)

Put down your calculators and pocket protectors. We know that Davidson is a highly academic institution and that everyone has lots of work to do. However, there is more to college than just studying, like HAVING FUN! There is a little secret in Belk Arena that not many people on campus know about. The fact is that both the men’s and women’s basketball teams are battling for their respective Southern Conference titles and berths in the NCAA tournament. The problem is that the Davidson students are stuck in their rooms rather than filling the seats in Belk Arena. Come on fellas, really, Jenna Jamison and Nikki Dial can wait. How much porn can you fit on your hard drive?? Don’t you know that stuff makes you go blind? We know you’re really waiting for the newest version of WinZip, but IT CAN WAIT! And ladies, Brandon finally left Beverly Hills, 90210, don’t you think you should too? Aren’t you sick of Dillon’s debauchery and Donna’s nympho-attitude mixed with her stupidity? Not to mention, if Party of Five got any worse they’d have to put it on Lifetime. If you’re into Dawson’s Creek, don’t worry, we will tape it. No more excuses! It is bad enough that the Thornton family comprised half of the attendance at the football games while the team set the school record for wins in a season (sorry, we had to mention it). We have seen more people at the Economics picnic than at most of the varsity sporting events. Everyone always gripes about getting his or her voice heard. Well, we’re giving you the opportunity. Going to a basketball game is the perfect opportunity to lose your inhibitions and go crazy. You can yell and jump up and down and scream “bull$#!*” at the officials when they make a bad call. Then again, at the UNCC vs. Davidson men’s game, their fans taught us a thing or two about team spirit. We haven’t been so outdone since we took Economic Statistics (thanks Dr. Martin). We were disgraced as we were out-cheered by one of our biggest rivals. They came into town in OUR HOUSE and embarrassed us, and for those of you who don’t...know us, embarrassing us is a difficult feat to accomplish. The basketball teams are comprised of the same people that you go to class with every day. They spend 40 hours a week practicing and watching film so they can perform their best for you, the Davidson community. The least you can do is get off your cans for an hour and a half on a Saturday or Wednesday night and show them that their hard work is appreciated. You’d be surprised how much effect the fans can have on a game. This Saturday night, the men will battle conference leader and nationally-ranked College of Charleston, and February 8th the women take on conference rival UNC-Greensboro. It is time to make the difficult decision of crossing the threshold of your room for something other than going to class. Come out and cheer on our basketball teams. It is time to make Belk Arena the 6th man it has the potential to be. Hey, you never know, you might win a Ford Explorer, right Bill? And remember, there is more to the “college experience” than academics. We have to develop our minds, our bodies, and our spirits. As the great Mark Twain once said, “I have never let my schooling interfere with my education.” GO CATS!!!

Whatever happened to the days of the “Juice” and Nancy Kerrigan? Bad to lie. Not even our hallowed honor code says we should not lie, but simply that we should not lie with regard to school business. Likewise, the President should not lie, but only with regard to official business. Politicians have been lying for years, and they are going to keep right on doing it. I don’t care if it was in a court of law, because it had absolutely zero to do with his Presidency. It had to do with all the men and women who have ever cheated on their spouses. How many of those “cheaters” do you think simply volunteered to their spouse, let alone the entire world, that they screwed up? Personally, I’m glad he didn’t admit it, because I sure as hell didn’t want to know about it then. And I sure wouldn’t know about it today if it wasn’t for the wonderful mass media of the United States of America. Instead, I go to bed each night to dry heaves and visions of cigars. This isn’t about the Constitution. It isn’t about morality, or what is right or wrong. It isn’t about other countries not respecting us, because last time I checked, respect was about power. It is about party politics. If the President is forced out of office, it will be for one reason, and one reason only: because Republicans held the majority in Congress. Thank goodness for members of the House like Connie Morrella (my home representative in MD, incidentally), who was the ONLY Republican member to vote down all four articles of impeachment. Crabbie is proud of you Constance, but is not sure why such a “constitutional” issue as impeachment of the president is so divided by party lines. Answers? Anybody? Anybody? (Side note: answers are sought from rational and clear-thinking Democrats only).

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

News Editors
SCOTT RICHARDSON
ASHLEY E. KING

Op-Ed Editor
CARRIE ARTHUR

Circulation Manager
MELISSA ANN DE CASTRIQUE

Sports Editors
ALISON KALETT
SETH DAVIS

Advertising Managers
MIKE ANDERSON
PETER CLARK

Arts & Living Editor
DAVID JORSTON

News Layout Editors
EVAN McCORMICK
KELLS HETHERINGTON

Arts & Living Contact Manager
ELDER GWIN

Head Copy Editor
WHITNEY BLAKE

Op-Ed Layout Editors
BURGIN HARDIN
BEN COVINGTON

Sports Layout Editors
EVAN McCORMICK
CADER HOWARD

Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD
DAVID ROSENBERG

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Cartoonist
NATHANIEL LOTZE

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036

Look for The Davidsonian on the Internet soon, the current site is in the process of being updated and brought back online.

I’ve decided to take a more scholarly approach. No more “Wheeesh” or vigilante justice. By applying and conquering this veritable tin pot, I will make this work. My A’s will come. Last semester, when a disaster struck, your wonder... What? That was only a joke.