__THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1999__

**Palestinian leader Hanan Ashwari speaks in Love**

By AMANDA Britt
Staff Writer

Through the unflagging efforts of the Dean Rusk Program, Chair of the College Union Public Lecture Committee Dr. Vivian Deitz, and Dalia Abu-Dayyeh ’01, top Palestinian Spokesperson and Peace Advocate Dr. Hanan Ashwari spoke in Love Auditorium on Thursday, February 4. Students, faculty, and members of the greater-Charlotte area gathered to hear her lecture entitled “Peace in the Middle East: The Palestinian Perspective,” a firsthand perspective on the ongoing Israeli/Palestinian struggle.

Dr. Kenneth Brown, Director of the Dean Rusk Program, introduced Ashwari and her multiple accomplishments and contributions. Holding a Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in medieval and comparative literature, Ashwari was the founder and chair of the English Department at Birzeit University, where she also served as dean of faculty and arts. Since becoming a member of the Palestinian Council’s Political Committee in 1988, Ashwari has held numerous positions in the Palestinian government. As the only female and Christian member in Yassir Arafat’s cabinet, she served as a representative of Jerusalem in 1996. After her refusal last August to accept reappointment to her cabinet position, she has since worked to promote peace and advocate human rights. Ashwari regularly appears in worldwide news programs as the voice and face of the Palestinian cause.

Ashwari approached the podium before a standing and applauding audience. She acknowledged their persistence, acceptance, and appreciation. These characteristics, she revealed, illustrate her hopes and goals for seeking a permanent peace among all, especially between the Palestinians and Israelis. In her opening remarks, she asserted that there is life beyond Washington. Ashwari admitted to her sense of responsibility for altering and challenging Americans’ view of the intense and complex issues before both Palestinians and Israelis.

Ashwari immediately addressed her perceived conditions of her own people. In her view, the Palestinians were initially victimized by the world’s attempt to conveniently solve the Holocaust problem. As the true “people of the land,” the Palestinians have since “undergone a great injustice,” she contended. Moreover, Palestinians have become actual “victims of peace.”

In 1991, Ashwari directly participated in the Middle East peace process in Madrid. She described a “spillover effect of extremism.” The Israeli government’s language, attitude, and policy shift to the far right destroyed potential for peace, she further conveyed. Ashwari believed the Israelis abused the power and control their democracy enabled them to have over the Palestinians.

Within their own government, Ashwari claimed that the Palestinians have suffered political confusion and denial. Furthermore, the Palestinian government has not had entire support from its people. This separation has been problematic in upholding the Wye Agreement as well. In August 1998, Ashwari refused her appointment back into Arafat’s cabinet because she did not want to be part of that institution.

She also discussed the US’s role in launching and bringing strategies to the peace process. However, she lamented that the US took sides. Israel, she said, is a domestic issue in the US. The Palestinians are not. With its power, Ashwari believes the US has a responsibility to protect human and democratic rights on both sides. The question remained: how do the Palestinians and Israelis establish permanent peace when there is a profound conflict in ideology? Ashwari, herself admitted, “When you make God take sides, then you have no hope.” Still, Ashwari has hope in following generations that can reshape their mentality. In the meantime, she promised to persist in attempting to change attitudes. She believed that the Arab world must empower its people and redefine its nationalism. It must democratize.contended. Ashwari’s speech was sponsored by the Joseph T. Wearn Endowment, which annually brings to Davidson a speaker of great scientific achievement and/or statesmanship. Copies of her newest book, "This Side of Peace: A Personal Account," can be found in the college bookstore.

Newly inaugurated SGA leaders seek tangible results

Continued from page 1

“We need to push the senate body to find tangible answers and results. That’s the job of SGA.”

In his speech, Haselden grew sentimental and thanked his parents, who were present for the occasion, for the opportunity to be at Davidson. He also admitted to being nervous, to which he said, “I wasn’t nervous about speaking, but just about the significance of what was happening. I just felt awe. You can’t really prepare for that.”

Haselden said, “It just really hit me at the inauguration just what exactly was happening. It hadn’t hit me the night I won, but as the week went on, it slowly started to sink in. My heart started beating crazily right before my speech when I finally realized what was happening.”

Prior to Haselden’s speech, the new vice president, sophomore class president Dane Erickson, gave his inaugural address. The 1998 vice president, Chris Tuttle ’99, introduced Erickson. In his speech, Erickson emphasized two main points. He began focusing on the committee system of SGA, because as vice president, he will chair the InterCouncil.

“Foster and I both believe the committee system is the backbone of SGA,” Erickson said. Erickson also challenged the SGA senate body to take the initiative. “I think SGA does an excellent job listening to students and responding with tangible results, but as campus leaders, it’s sometimes our responsibility to fix problems before they come about,” Erickson said.

Erickson concluded his speech, saying, “I expect a lot out of student senators and committees because I know they expect a lot from me.” Speaking for Haselden and himself, Erickson said, “We both love the SGA, and we are excited about the opportunities and are really looking forward to this year. We’re going to accomplish a lot, and a lot will happen.”

Former vice president Tuttle said, “I’m excited about the possibilities for this new administration. They are committed to forming even better relationships with students and really listening to their peers and friends.” Tuttle also commented on Haselden’s dedication, saying, “It’s really neat to see how much this job means to Foster.”

Former president Fisher remarked, “I am very confident in this next year with Dane and Foster. They’ve both done so many great things as class presidents and committee chairs. I’m confident they will keep up their dedication, hard work, and enthusiasm for SGA.”

A low-key reception followed the inauguration, and a photo shoot with the new administration and past presidents was held. On Thursday night, Haselden and Erickson initiated SGA’s volunteer involvement with the Vamonos Van system by each driving a shift.

"Academic couple seeks: EGG DONOR for clinic in VA/NC region: Caucasian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker, college degree or higher, solid SAT scores, at least 5'8", lean/athletic build, dark complexion/hair, even-featured face, excellent health/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right candidate will be well compensated and asked to provide photos. Please send letter along with background, education, and motivation for doing this to: POB 425545, Cambridge, MA 02142. All serious replies answered.”

Introducing the American Express Credit Card for Students. Live for today. Build for tomorrow. The American Express Credit Card for Students is a resource you can depend on. With benefits like big airfare savings, free credit information, and no annual fee, it'll help you get the most from your student years — and help you build a solid financial foundation for the future.