THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

The Class of 1999 played their final game at Belk Arena on Saturday and Davidson obliterated Wofford’s Lady Terriers in
the season’s last regular season contest.

The game offered a microcosmic glimpse at the growth of the women’s basketball program over this season, in the context
of the four-year careers of Jamie & Kerry Brown and Jessica Montrella.

On January 18 of this year, Wofford earned their first conference victory of the season, handing Davidson an embarrassing team
that sent the Wildcats into a flat spin over the ensuing weeks.

“Wofford had a little celebration after that game,” said Coach John Filar. “They did nothing to hide that celebration. That
gave us a little extra incentive, it was something we didn’t forget. When you win you win with class, when
you lose you lose with class. We kind of had it rubbed in our noses a little bit, we had
a point to prove today.” February 20, 1999: Davidson 78, Wofford 53.

Point well taken.

With the exception of injured freshman Leah Uhernik, every Wildcat saw floor time.

“This is what you hope the last game of the season is like: It’s a ‘W,’ your team plays well,
your seniors play well, and your bench not only gets to play, but they get to contribute,” Filar exclaimed.

Jamie Brown led all scorers with 16 points, while fellow seniors Kerry Brown and Montrella added 10 and 7, respectively.
Jen O’Brien crept to within 5 points of the career 1000 mark, adding 10 along with her 4 assists on
the day.

Janna Magette came off the bench to add 9 points, while fellow freshmen Kelly Copland and Bethany Schott came through
as big contributors on the day, combining for 10 points and 7 rebounds. “We talked about before the game how
we’ve got to have a hunger,” said Filar. “We have to get the boards in order to get out and
run on them. Bethany Schott came off and had four boards in the first half, that was great.”

High-level defensive intensity forced 26 Terrier turnovers that turned into 27 Wildcat points. “Our defense so many times generates our
offense,” Filar proudly noted.

With the victory, Davidson improved their final conference mark to 11-7, earning 4th place in the regular season standings.

Wofford falls in season’s final contest

SPORTS

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999.

The Wildcats won their eleventh regular season conference game on Saturday.

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Writer

The Appalachian State pep band humored themselves last Monday night with an array of taunting cheers—including a “Meow, Meow, Meow,
Meow” scorning of our mascot (you know, from the Meow Mix commercial). But when the clock struck 00:00 at Varsity
Gym in Boone, NC, it was the Lady Wildcats laughing.

Davidson emerged with their 10th conference victory on Monday night, rolling over ASU’s Mountaineers 78-69.

Jen O’Brien led all scorers with 24 points and also notched 5 assists and 4 rebounds. Kerry Brown continued on
a tear that earned her Southern Conference Player of the Week Honors with 15 points, 10 rebounds, 6 steals, and
5 assists. Brown was the second Wildcat in a row to stake claims to the honors—center Katy Kamp was recognized
as the conference’s most dominant player the previous week.

It was a game of streaks. Davidson leapt out to an 11-0 lead in the first four minutes of play.
The Mountaineers responded with a spurt of their own, capitalizing on four Wildcat traveling violations to score 15 unanswered points
of their own.

O’Brien turned the tide with two key 3-point buckets that sparked a 30-15 run for Davidson for the duration of
the first half. In the second half it was Janna Magette that helped the Wildcats pull away with two clutch
3-pointers, and Davidson then cruised to a 78-69 victory.

Dispelling any concerns posed by their early-season road woes, Davidson's win marked the second convincing conference victory of the weekend.
“In this conference the way it’s been this year, any win on the road is big,” said Coach John Filar.

The victory handed Davidson their 10th victory, and assured the ‘Cats a 4th place seed in this week’s Southern Conference
Tournament.

Junior Jen O’Brien, the SoCon’s leader in assists and steals, poured in 24 points against ASU on Mon.

STUDY IN OXFORD

Live with British students in the very center of Oxford as an Associate Student of a medieval Oxford college.

Summer and graduate study available. Since 1985, students from 240 leading U.S. Colleges have studied in Oxford through W.I.S.C.

Washington International Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. (Suite 370)
Washington, D.C. 20002

Phone Number: (202) 547-3275
Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC
Facsimile: (202) 547-1470
Email: wisc@erols.com
