-* By: BurGin Harbin, Sports Editor

Riding high on a 7-1-1 record for September, the Lady Wildcats soccer squad entered October with a full head of
steam. But halfway into their toughest month of competition, it appears the boiler may be overheating as the ‘Cats face
the toughest stretch of their schedule.

The Wildcats have been in a slump since their Oct. 2 victory over East Tennessee State. Following that 4-0 rout
of the ETSU Buccaneers on the road, the Wildcats dropped three straight against Clemson, Duke, and Furman, respectively. They appeared
to recover slightly this past Friday when Davidson freshman Tara Maloney closed the gap early in the second period by
launching a shot that sailed over the head of Duke goalie Isis Dallis and into the goal. Duke responded quickly,
however, as sophomore Sarah Pickens found the bottom right corner of the goal and sealed Duke's 2-1 victory.

Once again, the Cats were out-shot, getting off only four shots compared to Duke’s 20, and Davidson notched only three
corner kicks, seven less than their opponent. The ’Cats looked to get back on track when they traveled to upstate
South Carolina on Oct. 12 to take on Southern Conference foe Furman, the only team besides Davidson that remained undefeated
in Southern Conference action.

Top freshman midfielder Amy Johnston, assisted by Ginny Dye and Heather Maloney, netted the Wildcats’ first goal of the evening
at the 26:37 mark. Johnston’s goal was one of only two Davidson shots in the first half, but it sent
the ‘Cats into the last 45 minutes of play with a 1-0 lead. Furman did not lie down, however, as
the Lady Paladins fought back in the early moments of the second half, finally evening the score with a shot
by Nicole Malseed who tapped in a corner kick at the 71:52 mark. After 90 minutes of play, the 1-1
tie forced the game into overtime, but Furman’s Melissa Turner, who had left the game earlier with an apparent leg
injury, returned to drill the game-winner past Corrigan.

With the 2-1 victory, Furman took exclusive control of the Southern Conference, and Davidson dropped to 5-1 in conference play.
“For Melissa Turner to come back from an injury where she could barely walk off the field to score the
game-winner shows a lot of heart,” commented Furman Head Coach Brian Lee.

“Davidson is a very good team. They really made us earn a hard-fought win,” added Lee.

Phone: 895-1774
Valid through 11-15-99
Subs, Salads, and...More 20816 N. Cornelius, NC 28031 (3/4 mile from Davidson College) Subs, Salads and More Main St. Fax:
895-1647 $1 off a large sandwich or $.50 off a small sandwich or salad.

SPORTS

Women’s soccer meets stiff mid-season competition

"To score a great goal like that in overtime is incredible,” said Furman Head Coach Brian Lee. “Davidson is a
very good team. They really made us earn a hard-fought win.”

Reeling from the recent 3-game skid, the ‘Cats hosted Brown University on Oct. 15 and looked as if they were
returning to form, even though they had to settle for a 1-1 tie. Sophomore Carolyn Stumpf scored the ’Cats’ lone
goal of the evening, pounding a shot past Brown keeper Elise Roy from 20 yards out. Brown answered late in
the game as Kristin Nabb relayed a corner kick into the goal. The fruitless overtime period that followed left Davidson
with their second tie of the season.

“Our conference games are the main concentration right now, and are must-wins for us,” said Hundley at the first of
October, “but we feel as though we are playing well and that’s what you strive for at this point of
the season.”

Since that comment, the ‘Cats have gone 1-1 in conference play, including their 4-0 ETSU win, so it is expected
the season that got off to the best start in school history will soon recover from the recent slump. Three
losses and a tie in four games that came over an 11-day period may not be a stellar record, but
don’t forget the big picture — eight wins in the first 11 games, a school record eight shutouts this season,
and the second-best record in the Southern Conference. While victories would have been nice, the losses over the last two
weeks by no means signal the demise of the ’Cats’ record-making season.

The ’Cats (8-5-2, 5-1) face three more SoCon opponents before the end of October, including defending Southern Conference champs UNC-Greensboro.
They will host the UNCG Spartans on Oct. 21, and kickoff is scheduled for 7 p.m.

Thanks to the Furman University Sports Information Office for their contribution to this article.

INNER HAIR CARE ©1997 BeZ2I, Division ZZ, Darien, CT 06820-1005

Expert Hair Services
Relaxing Manicures & Pedicures
Soothing Facials
Complete Wax Hair Removal
Total Body Massage
Hydro-therapy room

Mon-Thu 9-8
Fri 9-7
Sat 9-5
895-0404

Shopping Center Corner of I-77 & Exit 28 Cornelius 20430-2 Norman Crossing

Volleyball flawless in Southern Conference

Press Release Davidson Sports Info

Three Wildcats reached a game-high 14 kills as Davidson defeated Wofford, 3-1, Sunday at Belk Arena in Southern Conference volleyball.
Junior Brooke Bentley was among those with 14 kills to go with her game-high 15 digs. Senior Gina Lawrence, who
added 13 digs, and junior Mara Mordini also reached the 14-kill plateau for the Wildcats (18-2, 11-0 in the Southern).

After winning the first two games, Davidson dropped the second despite leading 10-5 as the Terriers went on an 11-4
run to close out the game. Janna Webb led Wofford with 13 kills and 13 digs and Christy Carter had
10 and 12, respectively. Molly Bushong registered 29 assists for the Terriers. Junior Katherine Lorenz finished with 13 digs and
three aces as sophomore Erica Schwartz racked up 45 assists.

With the win, Davidson has successfully made it once through the SoCon without suffering a loss and will start the
second half of the conference season Friday, Oct. 22 at Chattanooga.
