THE DAVIDSONIAN

Professor X

Take a guess all break must have been bittersweet for most of you. On one hand, you were enjoying your time away from school, but you did have to wait an extra week to find out who last week’s professor was, and who was the lucky winner. Your wait is over. The lovely Ann Colter Hosch deciphered Dr. Michael Hosking’s identity out of the previous column. Golf clap, please.

This week’s interview was the most intriguing I have experienced. The honesty and openness of this man were heartwarming. I hope you appreciate the journey. Feel free to ask anyone but me.

He was born in Fort Worth, Texas, the second son of Harold and Iva. Straight out of North Side High School, he had a romantic dream to travel the world aboard an aircraft carrier in the U.S. Navy. He became a sailor and went into naval aviation. Uncle Sam didn’t lead him around the globe; instead, he traveled to Oakland and Pennsylvania and ended up as a naval recruiter to various colleges around the nation. Coming from a family without a tradition of higher education, this was the first time he really began to ponder the value of college. He believes that there is an intrinsic human thirst for knowledge that overrides conventional education.

While recruiting at Texas A&M University, he became filled with a “starry-eyed” wonder by the institution and decided he desired to continue his schooling there. He was always interested in the liberal arts, and Texas A&M supplied many outlets for him. He began to study the Christian religion very intensely. At the same time, he was leading a parallel existence with an equally intense study of the life sciences. Upon reaching his senior year, he was torn between seminary school and going on to Graduate School for scientific study. A great opportunity with A&M grad school and the experience of being the pastor to a small Texas church influenced his decision. As a senior, he was ordained a Baptist minister and began preaching at Rock Prairie Baptist just south of College Station. He believed at the time that he could bring something fresh to the Baptist ministry because of his in-depth studies of evolution. This knowledge would be the differentiating factor which could separate him from the customary history and religion background of contemporary preachers. He preached “do unto others” and race relations to this tiny congregation, which was more content with standard bible-thumping sermons and didn’t really feel a connection. So after being offered a good research job and a place among those on their way to a Ph.D., he decided to attend A&M’s graduate school.

I have found a pleasant irony in his focal study as a graduate student. While attempting to reconcile the truths of Darwin with his powerful religious beliefs, he conducted a vigorous study concerning the evolution of the human heart. He considers the study of evolution to be an unavoidable study of one’s personal philosophies. At the age of twenty-six, he graduated with a fascinating blend of the spiritual and the scientific. Finding a way to incorporate both into his new occupation as a professor at Holyoke Community College in Massachusetts, he considered teaching an altered ministry. The students at Holyoke were of a similar background to him, not yet fully understanding the virtues of a collegiate experience. He delighted in opening the world of education up to them, being most elevated when he sent a student off to the University of Massachusetts. This real-world teaching experience whet his appetite to work with young people interested in learning. A job opening here at Davidson led him to North Carolina and his wife, whom he married in 1992. Davidson also brought him a strong friendship with Dr. Holland. Together they offer a class which incorporates Darwinism with literature. Together they have traversed the English countryside. Dr. Holland sparked an inquisitive interest to seek out the homes and resting places of great thinkers by taking him to locations such as the Lake District home of Wordsworth. On his own, he searched intensely for the grave of a great agnostic philosopher, Thomas Henry Huxley. He was almost ready to give up his quest after two days of walking an enormous cemetery a few miles north of London. Finally, he stumbled upon it and the quote he discovered echoes his journey and deserves a moment of contemplation: “Be not afraid, ye waiting hearts that weep, for God still giveth his beloved sleep, and if an endless sleep he wills, so be it.”

Email any guess as to the identity of this professor can be sent to brmcmillan@davidson.edu.

Brandt McMillan ’01

_OPINIONS_

One fish, Fall “Break”

Well...it’s over. Four days of relaxation, sleep, and self-indulgence are over and now I am ready to delve back into my work at Davidson with renewed vigor, right? Wrong. If anything, I am more stressed out, more sleep-deprived, and less healthy than when I left this campus Friday afternoon. This was my great vacation?

Let me be clear that I had a great fall break. I went home, reunited with my menagerie, ate copious amounts of home cooking, and saw a bunch of friends who all bitched about how much harder college was than we thought it would be. Never during my periods of bonding, partying, and complaining did I ever think to work on the very thing that I had planned to do: sleep. I left Friday with bags under my eyes and returned looking like one of Mike Tyson’s wives. But, the wife-beating analogy aside, I was worn out. As I was commiserating with my hall-mates late Tuesday evening, it hit me. I had an (expletive deleted) load of work to do and my “break” wasn’t getting any shorter. So, I returned to class Wednesday less prepared than I had been before my “break” and much more harried. Looking around the lecture hall, I took comfort in the plethora of nodding heads, many more than normally sleep through the lectures. Thus, I have been able to conclude: fall “break” is anything but a vacation.

To prove my hypothesis, like any good student, I looked up the word “break” in the dictionary. To my surprise, it did not mention “vacation” or anything similar. The closest this incredibly long paragraph came to “vacation” was “a pause or interval in work.” The definition did, however, mention the following: “to diminish or discontinue abruptly,” “to become unstable or inoperative,” and (my favorite) “to diminish in or lose physical or spiritual strength; weaken or succumb.” Perhaps this is it, the administration knows what will happen to us over fall “break” and they wereTrying to warn us... Though, they must have realized how we could be so easily deceived. To think, I mocked my colleague who was doing work Thursday night, even though it wasn’t due until the next Wednesday. If only I had known! Or perhaps they are attempting to keep us on campus. One thing that I have noticed is that the “poor souls” who had to stay here over the “break” looked much better than the weary travelers did returning Tuesday night. Perhaps it is my fault. I mean, I had ample opportunity to open those books (don’t lie, you know you brought them home). This again goes back to the misconception of this being a vacation. My response to the weak little voice in my head pleading me to get some work done was “I’m on vacation, shut up.” My voice tried a few times during idle moments to coax me away from the TV, but hey, I had to make up for a deficit. Luckily, watching TV is a lot easier than riding a bike, and no matter how many of your brain cells it kills, you are still able to remember to watch it. In conclusion, I would like to make a mental note to myself: Beware of the “break” for it can lead to much catastrophe.

Note: Andrew would like to make it clear that he does not hear voices in his head (on a regular basis, at any rate). Furthermore, he would like to note that US Airways refused to serve him a meal on his return flight and he is really quite upset.

Andrew MacDonald ’03

Red fish, stared at the TV in disbelief as the sitcom announced three new shows: “Odd Man Out,” “Ladies Man,” and “King of Queens.” Interesting, isn’t it? All three titles promote the male characters as the center of the show. The second two include the presence of women, but only as attached to the “Man” or “King.” In pouring over the TV Guide, I unfortunately missed “Odd Man Out,” but I did catch “Ladies Man” and “King of Queens.” The Ladies’ Man lives in a household where there are at least 5 women around him, and last week’s episode focused on his inability to keep them out of his at-home workshop. This show’s title seems to give women an equal place by placing the “Ladies” first (they comprise the entire cast except for the “Man”), but, in fact, “Ladies” merely becomes an adjective for “Man.” The “King,” as far as I can tell, has only one “Queen,” his wife. This show’s plot followed the couple’s decision whether to be godparents for their best friends’ children. Why, since the show focuses equally on the wife and husband, is the title “King of Queens”? Frankly, (and I hope this ironic twist is the show’s clever intent), the “King” gets bossed around by the “Queen” and in this particular episode, her discomfort at the notion of godparenting drives the story.

The gender-biased naming extends even into the cartoon world with “Family Guy,” yet another show where the focus includes all members of the family. Still, the title represents the “Family” as belonging to the “Guy.” How will sitcom titles ever become unbiased when the cartoon powers-that-be choose to name a show after a male character who shares the same amount of on-screen time with his wife, a female character? The trend extends beyond husbands and dads to include teenage and twenty-something guys. Older shows’ titles also reflect a trend toward bias, namely “Dawson’s Creek” and “Two Guys and a Girl.” Why isn’t the title “Joey’s Stream” or “Anytown Pond”? All four original characters have a subplot of their own, so why a title giving one character, a blond boy, the top billing? The title “Two Guys and a Girl” troubles me even more. In previous seasons the title was “Two Guys, A Girl and a Pizza Place,” tacking the “Pizza Place” on almost as an afterthought. Since one of the “Guys” now went back to school, and therefore cannot work in the store, the “Girl” character is tacked onto the title’s end. The show’s first title was bad enough, placing the “Two Guys” before “A Girl”; now, the “Girl” has become an “and” clause.

The sitcoms I attack could be renamed to give all characters an equal, and fair, standing. These shows do not concentrate on one character and use other characters as they relate to this one character. I am not attacking the shows titled with a character’s name that actually have the aforesaid title character in a title role. These sitcoms frame plots around the main character, and present an entirely separate premise than “Two Guys and A Girl.” “The Drew Carey Show,” “Everybody Loves Raymond,” “Norm,” “Frazier,” and “Cosby” use the title character concentration technique, as do their female counterparts: “Felicity,” “Ally McBeal,” “Sabrina the Teenage Witch,” “Buffy the Vampire Slayer,” and “Jesse.” All of these shows name a specific person such as Ally, Drew, Felicity, or Norm; the individualized titles do not rely on the weaker “King of Queens” type name. Does the “King” have a name? Titles such as “Ladies Man” and “King of Queens” misleadingly hint that the male character is the dominant, title character, which the plots prove untrue. The rationale of using such generic nouns indicates that the “King” isn’t really the title character, that instead, this character is one of a few who hold equal roles. This naming problem disappears with the gender-neutral, not generic, titles such as “Friends” and “Snoops,” which hit the mark by highlighting the unique shared interest of all the characters in the cast.

What’s the big deal? They are just sitcoms—some destined to become classics, others to ill-fated single seasons. But these shows infiltrate mainstream American culture with their widely recognized titles. The disturbing trend toward gender-biased naming spans prime time lineups, networks, and seasons. Clever network executives promote new shows so well that the titles go unnoticed, silently forcing the women in the sitcoms into second-class positions simply by their exclusion from or submission in titles. Titles are important; in theory, a sitcom title encapsulates the show’s premise into a few words. When the titles emphasize the sole male character or a male character, the roles of all other characters diminish. Reach for the clicker. Recognize a title. Realize whether the title works or not. Television sitcoms create microcosms much like reality, only with snappier dialogue and neater closure. Can we responsibly ignore the fact that these little worlds have become increasingly labeled as generically male?

Kristen Taylor ’01

JUST RING ALREADY! For the Coolest Stuff & Accessories: JUST DO WHAT I ALWAYS DO... DRINK TILL THEY'RE CUTE!