By Burcin Harbin
Sports Editor

Lightning wasn’t the only thing striking this past Wednesday on the varsity soccer field. There were also the Wildcats. Prior to the rain and lightning that postponed the Lady Wildcats’ soccer game against Georgia Southern for nearly an hour last Wednesday, the ‘Cats scored three times within twenty minutes en route to their first win over the Eagles from Statesboro, NC, in two years.

“This was a great win,” said Coach Kevin Hundley following the game. “[Georgia Southern] is a team we’ve battled with for years, and to win the game convincingly is a big win for us.” For the ‘Cats, who had played Duquesne (Pa.) to a 0-0 tie 3 days earlier, the 3-0 victory was a tremendous confidence boost for them. Hundley praised his players for the exceptional poise and talent they showed in overcoming what has been a stumbling block for the team over the past few years.

But Georgia Southern continued its dominating trend into the opening minutes of Wednesday’s contest, setting the pace of the game for the first fifteen minutes with their aggressive and physical style. Wildcat’s junior goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan, who entered the game with the lowest goals-against average in NCAA Division I at 0.19/game, was put to the test by Georgia Southern’s quick, attacking offense, which methodically pounded the ball into Davidson territory. Two diving saves by Corrigan prevented Davidson from falling behind early. A few early corner kicks also were unsuccessful for the ‘Cats, and it wasn’t until Heather Maloney’s breakaway drive down the right side that Davidson caught a break. As Maloney, a freshman forward from Ridgefield, Conn., approached the goal box, she dumped the ball off to senior forward Ginny Dye, who found the lower right-hand corner of the goal for Davidson’s first score. The goal was Dye’s 27th of her career, ranking her 4th all-time in most career points at Davidson with 64, and it provided the boost Davidson needed to take control of the match.

“After the first goal, we had them on their heels,” commented Hundley. Davidson forwards Mary Ellen Schaefer and Tara Maloney took advantage of the Eagles’ backpedaling when Schaefer, assisted by Maloney, scored with a header into the top left-hand corner of the goal at the 33:40 mark. Just as the rain began picking up, Tara Maloney threaded the Georgia Southern defense and advanced on the goal unassisted. Georgia Southern goalie Mary Perry eagerly came up to meet Maloney.

@ Carolyn Stumpf drives past the Georgia Southern defense in the ‘Cats recent 3-0 victory.

Field hockey improves
By Burcin Harbin
Sports Editor

Junior midfielder Jennie Gold scored the lone Davidson goal on a penalty corner, but it wasn’t enough as Georgetown defeated Davidson Field Hockey last Thursday by the score of 2-1 in Washington, DC. Kim Ceci and Lisa Holthaus combined on the assist for the ‘Cat score, tying the game 1-1 late in the first half. The Hoyas put the game away when Lori Fogilano scored an unassisted goal midway through the second half. The Wildcats remained in Washington over the weekend and met American University in a Sunday morning contest. Davidson rebounded nicely from Thursday’s defeat as they beat American 1-0 to close out a two-game East Coast trip. The ‘Cats (6-3) have a week before they commence a West Coast road trip that has them slated to meet California (Oct. 8), Pacific (Oct. 9), and Stanford (Oct. 11).

Volleyball dominates
Press Release
Davidson S.I.D.

Junior Brooke Bentley led the Wildcats to a Southern Conference sweep (15-10, 15-5, 15-4) over Wofford with 13 kills with no errors and 15 digs to lead the 'Cats in both categories. Senior Gina Lawrence followed with 12 kills and 10 digs for Davidson (12-2, 5-0). Davidson, who sits atop the Southern, returns to conference action Sunday, October 2, at 2 p.m., with a trip to Georgia Southern.and make a stop, but Maloney side-stepped her and drilled the ‘Cats' third score of the afternoon into the net at 40:39. After almost 40 minutes of play punctuated by rain showers, a downpour drenched the players and fans in the waning minutes of the half, and with just over 4 minutes left to play in the half, officials postponed the game indefinitely because of the heavy rains and lightning. An hour later, the two teams returned to the field to complete the half, and halftime was shortened to 5 minutes to ensure the game would be completed before sunset. Despite the delay, the ‘Cats' performance in the second half was not any less enthusiastic than it had been in the first half, and the defense was especially powerful in the second half, doing a tremendous job of protecting the ‘Cats' 3-goal lead. However, it was no easy task as Georgia Southern took 5 shots and 4 corner kicks in the last 45 minutes, and controlled the ball most of the half, allowing Davidson only 3 shots.

“I wish we could have picked up another one after the rain,” said Hundley, “but a 3-0 lead is a good place to be.” And it was a lead good enough to carry them to their fourth Southern Conference victory of the year, even though the ‘Cats appeared to tire in the closing minutes as Georgia Southern continued their relentlessly physical attack. Still, Davidson’s top-ranked defense was strong enough to stave off the Eagles’ assault. Going into the game, the ‘Cats were tied for fourth in the nation in shutouts per game and were ranked in the top twenty in team defense.

“Our entire defense has played a huge role in our success,” Hundley noted. “Obviously Winnie is playing great but our whole defense deserves credit for keeping opponents from getting very many good shots on goal.”

The ‘Cats returned to action Saturday, traveling to Johnson City, Tenn., and set a school record for most shutouts in a season by defeating the East Tennessee State Buccaneers 4-0 in another important Southern Conference victory. Davidson took advantage of an ETSU own goal early in the first half, while Dye accounted for another score in the opening 45 minutes. In the second half, Schaefer and sophomore Penn Graves recorded a goal apiece. The goalkeeping duties were divided evenly between Corrigan and senior Chesley Garrett.

Davidson is now 8-2-1, the best start in school history, and has not lost since Sept. 1 against N.C. State. They also sit undefeated atop the Southern Conference with 5 SoCon victories, proving with each game that they can play well and win big in important games.

“We have the confidence that we can do this for a long time,” noted Hundley, who knows how encouraging each win is but quickly notes that his team does not look too far into the future, nor is it taking lightly the next month of competition. Over the next four weeks, the ‘Cats will meet, among others, the two teams that appeared in the Southern Conference Championship last year (Furman and UNC-Greensboro). Still, the ‘Cats like to take it one game at a time, and right now they are preparing for a Tuesday, Oct. 5 home match against Clemson University. Originally slated for a 7 p.m. start in Richardson Stadium, the game has been moved to the varsity field behind Martin Court F and rescheduled for a 4 p.m. kickoff.

Meet your 1999 Wildcat Men’s Basketball Team at Mid-Afternoon Madness Saturday, October 16 in Belk Arena from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. To cap off their first official practice day of the 1999-2000 season, the Wildcats invite you to join them for sandwiches, drinks, and some friendly competition, including a half-court shot contest and a 3-point shot contest.

Freshman Heather Maloney has been a key to the Lady Wildcats' record-setting season.