THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gina Lawrence (#14) and Jennifer Ortega controlled the net much of the night, helping guide Davidson to a key win
over Chattanooga.

Wildcat swim coach, Rich DeSelm, returns from Australia
By David Moncure
Staff Writer

Nineteen days in Australia helping coach and train the best swimmers in the world—now that’s a swim coach’s dream. That
dream became a reality this past August for Davidson’s head swim coach, Rich DeSelm, as he was the head manager
of the USA national swim team for the Pan Pacific Games in Sydney, Australia.

Being the manager for the USA Pan Pacific Team this past August was nothing new for DeSelm. He had also
been the head manager for the team in 1997 in Fukuoka, Japan. The Pan Pacific games are held every two
years (beginning in 1983), and the four participating countries are the United States, Japan, Canada, and Australia.

His role as head manager for the team encompassed a wide range of responsibilities. He dealt with all travel and
lodging arrangements for the team, organized training programs, decided on meal plans for the athletes, and handled all communication responsibilities
for the team. Working alongside the USA National Team director, DeSelm made sure all of those events were well planned
out and executed.

DeSelm’s incredible nineteen-day experience began at the University of Southern California at a two-day mini-camp that the national team held
before departing for Australia. The national team’s first destination in Australia was Terrigal, about 100 kilometers north of Sydney. There
was a six-day training camp held there to prepare the team for the upcoming competition in Sydney. DeSelm was very
positive about the team’s experience in Terrigal, as he said the training camp “helped develop team identity and helped the
team get unified with its goals to go to Sydney.”

The eight-day meet in Sydney started on August 22. The new format for the meet was set up as a
replica for the Olympics in the year 2000. This new format added a semifinal event to all of the shorter
events, and as DeSelm stated, “it gives the athletes an extra chance to be at their best.” DeSelm was very
proud to be a part of this year’s event not only because of the magnitude that the event holds in
the swimming world, but also because of the number of world records set at this year’s meet.

By Shelley Conroy
Staff Writer

Ten goals. Two shutouts. No losses. Such were the season statistics of the Wildcats’ field hockey team heading into last
Sunday’s game against Appalachian State University. Over the course of the next 70 minutes, the tally stretched to 13 goals,
three shutouts, and still no losses, as the ‘Cats' undefeated season continued with their 3-0 win over the Mountaineers.

Lisa Holthaus started things off with a goal off a pass from Lea Jaeger almost 15 minutes into the game,
followed ten minutes later by freshman Jessica Barton’s goal with the assistance of co-captain Kate Schoening. The third and final
goal came with seven minutes left in the game by senior Jennie Gold, off passes from Alex Rogers and Jaeger.
Defensively, goalie Nancy Livingston recorded her third shutout of the season.

“We really dominated the entire game, both offensively and defensively,” commented head coach Jen Halliday. “We just played a great
game.”

A week later, the ‘Cats took on visiting Ohio University, ranked 13th in the nation. The Bobcats, defeating Davidson 4-1,
brought the ‘Cats' winning streak to an abrupt halt.

“It was a tough game; Ohio was the first team of this caliber we’ve played this season,” said Halliday. The
Wildcats attempted only 6 shots on goal, one-fourth of Ohio’s 24 attempts. “We focused too much on defense and played
not to lose, rather than to win, which cost us.”

Barton scored the lone Wildcats’ goal off a pass from Schoening and Holthaus. The Wildcats took to the field again
Sunday, now 4-1, looking to rebound from the season’s first loss.

By Kerry Sugrue
Staff Writer

What do you do when you're ranked first in the Southern Conference and find yourself faced with the #2 and
#3 teams who are eager to take your spot? If you’re the Davidson Women’s Volleyball team, you quickly let them
know that this isn’t the year to mess with the ‘Cats.

This weekend Davidson's touted Wildcats improved their overall record to 9-1 and their Southern Conference record to 2-0, defeating Chattanooga
and Western Carolina, the #2 and #3 teams in the conference, respectively.

On Friday night, the Davidson Volleyball team sent the squad from Chattanooga packing after an exciting match in front of
over 400 rowdy fans. The ‘Cats rallied back from a 4-15 loss in the opening game to soundly defeat Chattanooga
with three successive wins, 15-4, 15-4, 15-13. After falling in the first game, the ‘Cats executed plays like clockwork and...played
with an intensity that proved too much for Chattanooga to take. “After the first game, we talked about how much
we owed it to ourselves to win because we had so much to prove to this team. We hadn't beaten
Chattanooga in two years, and we were ready to change that,” said junior outside hitter Brooke Bentley. In the final
game, the ‘Cats came back from a 7-13 deficit to stun the defending Southern Conference champs. The ‘Cats were helped
to victory by the outstanding play of the dynamic captain trio of seniors Gina Lawrence and Ginny Quis, and junior
Mara Mordini. Mordini had a game-high 16 kills and 14 digs while Lawrence tallied 11 digs and 12 kills with
only 1 error, for a game-high attack percentage of .423. Quis, the team’s playmaker, racked in 42 assists and a
pair of aces. Bentley continued her exceptional play this season, burying 14 kills and notching 12 digs. Mordini, Lawrence, and
Bentley again posted impressive double-digit statistics for both kills and digs, as they have consistently done so far this season.
Sophomores Katie Middendorf and Jennifer Ortega also made strong contributions to the victory, with 6 and 8 kills, respectively. The
‘Cats were able to put their impressive depth on display, showcasing junior Katherine Lorenz and freshmen Kaitlyn Martin and Rebecca
Tiechgraeber.

Saturday night saw the ‘Cats give another solid performance as they crushed Western Carolina in three straight games, 15-8, 15-5,
15-10. Again, they came back from a 5-10 deficit in the final game to post yet another exciting finish. “It
was a great game for us to win like that,” said Bentley. “It’s always hard to come back after a
game like we had on Friday night and play with the same excitement and power, but the team did a
great job of keeping the intensity level up.” The Ortega duo was on fire Saturday night, with Jennifer tallying 13
kills and a .440 attack percentage, while Jacqueline put away a team-high 14 kills and 15 digs, and had an
incredible .522 attack percentage. Bentley hammered in 13 kills and scooped 12 digs, giving another strong performance for the ‘Cats
and Mordini finished the night with a game-high 18 digs and 11 kills. Quis and Sophomore Erica Schwartz split time
in Saturday's game, grabbing 30 and 17 assists, respectively. The ‘Cats continue their attack on the Southern Conference next weekend
as they face the College of Charleston and the Citadel in Belk Arena.

He will also continue his work with the USA national team next year in the Olympics as the assistant manager
for the team. Again, DeSelm hopes to learn many things that will in some way benefit the swimming program here
at Davidson that he has been in charge of for seven years now. The swimming program has greatly improved during
his tenure at Davidson. The women have won the Southern States for three years in a row now and have
also improved to ninth overall in the ECAC rankings. The men placed second in the Southern States this past year
after winning for two years in a row. They also improved their ECAC ranking to eighth overall. DeSelm’s hard work
as the Davidson head coach has also paid off in the category of personal awards. He has been named Southern
States Men’s Coach of the Year three times (1995, ’97, ’98) while at Davidson, and he has been named the
Southern States Women’s Coach of the Year twice (1997, ’98). His hard work with the USA national team this past
August and then again during the 2000 Olympic games can only continue to pay off for him personally and for
the Davidson swimming program as a whole.

Field hockey continues to surge, Wildcats improve to 5-1
Mike Anderson
