THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Cats split pair against Wofford

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

As the front end of the conference season drew to a close this week, Davidson found themselves tied with Chattanooga
for 5th place in the conference with a record of 5-4. League-leading UNC-Greensboro jumped out to an 8-2 start, followed
by 7-2 Georgia Southern. Entering this weekend’s action, the Lady Wildcats boasted a 5-1 Southern Conference record in games played
at Belk Arena. But unfortunately for Davidson, half of the conference games are played on the road, where our ‘Cats
were a winless 0-3. And a .500 record won’t win many championships.

Davidson 65, Wofford 66
Monday, January 18
Spartanburg, South Carolina

Their longing for the comforts of the Baker Sports Complex could not have been more prevailing than last Monday night,
when the ‘Cats dropped a game at Wofford, handing the Terriers their first conference victory in nine tries. Coach John
Filar described the game as “upsetting.” “In the first half, anything and everything that could have gone wrong went wrong.”
The only thing going for the ‘Cats in the first half was Jessica Montrella, the 6’2” senior forward out of
Altoona, Pennsylvania that Filar has described as perhaps “the most consistent person on this team this year.” Montrella stepped out
of the post to knock down four 3-pointers in the first half alone, on her way to leading all scorers
with 20 points on the evening. The Wildcats were down 15 points at one point in the first half, before
cutting the deficit to five at the half.

Davidson let Wofford pull away again to another fifteen-point lead in the second half before rallying to tie the game
at 62-62 on a Kerry Brown put-back of Katy Kamp’s missed free-throw. But then Wofford’s 6’3” freshman Stephanie Adelaine and
her teammates pulled away for the final time. Davidson trailed by just one with 20 seconds remaining, but committed back-to-back
turnovers to hand Wofford their first conference victory of the season. “That was really the most disappointing thing at the
end,” said Filar. “You hope you get at least a look at the basket and a shot. Unfortunately, we didn’t.
We turned it over at a time when we couldn’t afford to.”

The Wildcats learned a difficult lesson that night, as they failed to capitalize on losses by UNC-Greensboro and Georgia Southern
that could have landed Davidson just one game out of the conference lead. Instead, the ‘Cats fell to 5-4, placing
them fifth among the ten Southern Conference teams. After the loss, Filar warned, “We can’t afford to have (another off
night). We can’t even afford to learn any more lessons. It’s to the point now that if we’re not careful,
the regular season conference championship could get out of reach very quickly.” “Over the next nine games, we’ve got to
put a streak together. If there’s ever a time to start a positive streak, it’s Saturday against Chattanooga.”

Davidson 80, Chattanooga 76
Saturday, January 23
Chattanooga, Tennessee

Responding to their coach’s plea and perhaps fully recognizing the urgency of their predicament, John Filar’s Wildcats secured their first
conference road victory of the season on Saturday at Chattanooga. The victory avenged UTC’s 86-84 upset of Davidson back on
November 28. Following that conference-opening defeat, the Wildcats rallied to win seven consecutive games through the month of December. Wildcat
fans can only hope that this Chattanooga game, too, will serve as the catalyst for another tear through the Southern
Conference.

Davidson was able to recover from a dismal first-half performance in which Chattanooga shot 57% from the floor to Davidson’s
37%. UTC’s “drive and dish” offense—that sank 11 3-pointers in the teams’ previous meeting—helped the Lady Mocs jump out to
a 41-38 halftime lead. For the second time in as many games, Davidson had to contend with a dominating freshman
in the post. This time it was Chattanooga’s Heather Dykes.whose 17 points on 7-7 from the floor helped the Lady
Mocs outscore Davidson 24-10 in the paint during the first half. Thanks to some superior free-throw shooting, Davidson was able
to stay within striking distance throughout the first half. The Wildcats shot 16-18 (89%) from the line, while Chattanooga barely
broke 50% at 6-11. Filar responded to Chattanooga’s first-half dominance in the paint with some inside firepower of his own,
namely 6’3” center Jessica Heath, a sophomore out of Monument, Colorado. “As a coach,” beamed Filar, “you love to see
somebody step it up and give you the ability to increase their role... If Jessica Heath doesn’t have the game
she has, we don’t win that game.”

While Katy Kamp spent much of the second half on the bench in foul trouble before fouling out with just
shy of six minutes to play, Heath scored 12 points on the night—far eclipsing her average of 2.7 ppg on
the year. The reserve center also helped to pacify Chattanooga on the other half of the court, racking up a
number of rebounds and blocked shots on the defensive end. And as it has been time and time again for
the Wildcats this year, senior captain Jamie Brown took control of the game in the closing minutes to guide Davidson
to an 80-76 victory. Brown secured a crucial rebound and bucket in the waning seconds of the game on her
way to a career-high 24 points.

EXTRA INCOME NOW!
ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230
Own transportation.

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS
Duke Endowment Internships available this summer for two students from Davidson to work in the Charlotte area in one of
the Duke Endowment supported areas (health care, childcare, rural churches, and higher education). To be eligible, you must be available
from June 1 until August 1, and have your own transportation. A full description of the internship and applications are
available in the Dean of Students Office, 102 Chambers. Deadline: February 5.

Jessica Montrella applies the pressure. Davidson went on a 14-1 run late in the second half. Then, with 43.6 seconds
left in the game, O’Brien stood on the free throw line with two shots and a chance to extend a
78-76 lead, forcing Chattanooga into a two-possession game. But in uncharacteristic fashion, the 68% free-throw shooter missed the pair. Jamie
Brown leapt out of the block to secure the offensive rebound and, in effect, the ballgame. Brown added a basket
off a subsequent O’Brien rebound and assist in the waning seconds, and Davidson improved their conference record to 6-4.

Looking Ahead
Davidson rounds out their conference schedule with three home and six road games over the next four weeks before heading
to the Southern Conference Tournament. These next few weeks will demand near flawless performances in order to ascend into the
upper echelons of the conference in time for tournament seedings. “With everybody beating up on each other, you just can’t
tell. We’re a team that could go anywhere from 6th place to 1st place, that’s an unbelievable range. What you
definitely don’t want to do is have to play a #5, #6, or #7 place team in the first round,”
said Filar.

For a class of three seniors (Jess Montrella, Kerry Brown, & Jamie Brown) that has seen the fledgling program improve
during each of their three seasons in Wildcat red & black, this next month poses an opportunity to leave one
final legacy on a program they have helped to mold and develop. “Every game is a reminder that it’s almost
done,” proclaims Filar. “If you have the opportunity to play college ball, then you have been given a special blessing...
You want to make the most of this. It’s dawning on them that it’s going down the stretch now and
it’s almost over.”
