THE DAVIDSONIAN _TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1999

Domestic and international news briefs

By Derek Politzer
Staff Writer

Saturday, 4-17-99: After the Albanian government turned over a Yugoslav army lieutenant to the U.S. military, the Pentagon said Saturday
that a “prisoner swap” with Yugoslav authorities was unlikely. According to the U.S. Defense Department, the three U.S. soldiers captured
on the Macedonian-Yugoslav border have been denied their rights under the Geneva Convention. Currently, 57 percent of Americans would support
the use of ground troops in the Kosovo conflict.

A bomb packed with nails blasted a busy market area of Brixton, England Saturday, injuring about 50 people. A neo-Nazi
organization, calling itself “Group 18,” claimed responsibility for the attack. Although Scotland Yard could not confirm the credibility of this
claim, they could not rule out a racial motive since Brixton has had a reputation as the “symbolic Black capital”
of England.

On the domestic political front, Vice President Al Gore has suffered in his bid for the presidency from recent White
House scandals and from perceived weakness. A poll released Saturday indicated that his favorability rating dropped from 58% in December
to 47%.

Ending a 20-year career with the NHL, Wayne Gretzky announced his retirement Saturday. Gretzky, with 61 NHL records, won nine
Hart Trophies as the league’s most valuable player.

Sunday, 4-18-99: Turkish Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit’s Democratic Left Party received the most votes in Turkey’s parliamentary elections Sunday at
22%. In second place, the extreme right-wing Nationalist Action (MHP) party made astounding gains at 18%. The Islamic Virtue Party,
which has held the most seats in the current parliament since the last elections, suffered an electoral defeat with only
15% of the votes. Ecevit will likely try to form a coalition government with the MHP. Although deeply religious, the
MHP would not mix Islam and politics and would likely urge greater cooperation with Turkic states in Central Asia.

Accusing Tirana of aiding NATO, President Milosevic severed diplomatic ties with Albania. Meanwhile, President Clinton warned that the region could
not be secure with Milosevic in power and that Belgrade would lose control of Kosovo unless Milosevic accepted NATO’s terms
for an end to the conflict.

Monday, 4-19-99: U.S. officials said as many as 500,000 Kosovar men are unaccounted for and may have been killed by
Serb forces. Satellite imagery indicated that 43 mass graves might exist in Kosovo. Russia denied that Yugoslavia engaged in any
“ethnic cleansing” and warned NATO Monday that it would not permit the alliance to establish control over Yugoslavia.

Seven parents of white students in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg County public schools, who sued the Board of Education on charges that
school busing has discriminated against their children, have reopened the landmark school busing case of 1969. One parent alleged his
daughter was refused admission to an area magnet school because she was white. A school board attorney argued that five
more years were needed to fully desegregate the county’s schools.

As forest fires continued to whip across Florida’s Everglades Monday with no signs of stopping, state officials fear the blaze
could char more than 150,000 acres. An Alaskan volcano erupted Monday, spewing ash and steam 30,000 feet in the air.

Tuesday, 4-20-99: Two teenage gunmen went on a killing rampage in Columbine High School just outside of Denver, Colorado on
Tuesday, fatally shooting 15 people and injuring many others. They also planted 30 pipe bombs, including two larger bombs that
were intended to maim and kill as many people as possible. The two suspects,Eric Harris, 18, and Dylan Klebold, 17,
were members of the “Trench Coat Mafia,” a small group of high school outcasts who shared a racist ideology, embraced
Satanism, and followed Marilyn Manson. Harris and Klebold were admirers of Hitler and planned the attack to coincide with Hitler’s
birthday. After launching their attack, the two suspects killed themselves. President Clinton deplored these killings and offered federal assistance to
Colorado.

Firefighters contained a wildfire Tuesday, after it destroyed 173,000 acres. Because of the resulting haze over the Miami-Fort Lauderdale area,
authorities warned residents who had trouble breathing to stay indoors.

Wednesday, 4-21-99: As a reversal of an earlier policy to offer 20,000 Kosovars temporary shelter at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Vice
President Gore announced that they would be allowed into the United States mainland. The U.S. will accept those who have
relatives in the country and those who are particularly vulnerable. U.S. warplanes again bombed anti-aircraft missile sites in Iraq because
of a radar threat. The UN World Food Program announced Wednesday that, for the first time, the U.S. will make
a direct food shipment to North Korea.

Conservative Gary Bauer announced his bid for the Republican presidential nomination Wednesday. However, polls showed that he lagged far behind
other Republican presidential hopefuls including George Bush (son of former President Bush), Elizabeth Dole, John McCain, Dan Quayle, Steve Forbes,
Pat Buchanan, and Lamar Alexander. Bauer promised to restore religious values to the nation’s youth if nominated.

Thursday, 4-22-99: NATO discussed the possible use of ground troops Thursday but remained committed to the air strikes. According to
Russian envoy Victor Chernomyrdin, Belgrade was ready to accept an “international presence” in Kosovo. President Clinton and other NATO country
leaders remained skeptical. Major Daouda Malam Wanke, who seized power in Niger following a military coup, promised elections in November.
He said that military and security officials would not be allowed to run. A U.S. army helicopter crash in Fort
Campbell, Kentucky has left seven soldiers dead. The cause of the crash is being investigated.

Friday, 4-23-99: While NATO officials and heads of state convened in Washington, DC for the alliance’s 50-year celebration, NATO warplanes
engaged in what has been described as the heaviest bombing of Belgrade to date. Radio Television of Serbia came under
attack in an effort to end President Milosevic’s anti-NATO propaganda campaign. In light of Sonia Gandhi’s inability to garner enough
support in the parliament to form a new government, another Indian election seems likely. As such, it would be the
third election in just three years. The Socialist Party blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress Party for the
“poor state of the country.”

Authorities concluded Friday that others may have helped the two teenage boys who killed fifteen people at Columbine High School
in Colorado. Thursday’s discovery of a large propane bomb that could have destroyed the entire school indicated that the two
suspects may have had several accomplices. As a result of an agreement reached between tobacco companies and 46 states last
November, all outdoor cigarette advertising has been banned. The agreement also barred tobacco logos from appearing on caps, T-shirts, and
backpacks.
