THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINION TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999

The final word: More take it or leave it advice

Cattershooting while wondering what in hell happened to Gunnar and Matthew Nelson of that 80’s band of the same name whose two quality hits still delight retro freaks (myself included):

First of all, let me get the banal formalities out of the way before I really begin my assault on modern-day society. Welcome back, one and all. I trust y’all had long, lazy summers with much hedonism and very little cerebral growth. I wouldn’t want it any other way. And allow me to extend my deepest sympathies to all those who return to Davidson this fall after a semester (or even two) abroad. It sure is a rough adjustment, isn’t it? Going from doing very little work to having reviews and hundreds of pages of reading in the first three weeks back. Man, I must admit that while I love Davidson life and I relish the academic challenge of maintaining a GPA above the Mendoza Line, North Carolina just ain’t London.

The English way of approaching their studies — in the pubs with their professors, drinking themselves silly while debating the literary merit of Thomas Hardy and Sean O’Casey — is ideal. It lowers students’ usually obscene stress levels and lends for greatly needed relaxation. I can still recall that glorious, yet brisk, morning way back in February when my Modern American Fiction tutor (they call professors this over in the U.K.) glared at me during his lecture about Jack Kerouac’s “On The Road” and barked: “I am sure that all American students can relate to Sal’s feeling of restlessness and basic insouciance, right?” Right you are, sir.

No, really, in all seriousness it’s great to be back here on campus. My brain cells were dying by the tens with every day that passed in London. There’s only so much Killian’s Red a liver can take. And to all freshmen (especially the ones on Belk First West, my old stomping grounds from my first year — it’s all girls now, but nevertheless there is a tremendous legacy to uphold), the mighty Class of 2003, welcome to Hell. I’ve had a wonderful three years, but I’ve also had my share of heartbreak, academic failure, and anxiety attacks along the way. It’s the nature. But being able to boast proudly of having a diploma from Davidson College is definitely worth all the strife. A very prestigious school to say the least. Certainly superior to those wicked Ivy Leaguers at Princeton and Yale. Damn overrated snobs.

By now every freshman should be well adjusted in their new college life. Enjoy your time here and flourish in everything you do. The professors are engaging, personable, and sagacious and the beautiful facilities are second-to-none. I cherish the education I have received here and will eternally wear my Davidson ring with pride. Good luck, fish. Respect our college.

Sitting here in the cozy confines of my senior apartment all doped up on a near-fatal mixture of Amoxicillin and Aleve, I can’t help but turn my attention to what’s going on in this crazy world (besides, there’s only so much reading one can do for Colloquium in a single day). Lots has gone on in the nearly eight months since I boarded a plane leaving Dallas to London Gatwick, so let’s get to it.

One brief (and perhaps necessary) disclaimer before I begin. If any of you are easily infuriated or offended, then STOP READING NOW. I’m a senior and therefore have some rights to express myself. To (loosely) quote Adam Sandler in The Wedding Singer: “I have a column and you don’t, so you will listen to every damn word I have to say!” There, you’ve been warned. Now let’s begin the rant from a true cynic, a good ol’ conservative boy.

Hi. I’m a 17-year-old coquette who feels it a priority to get breast implants. Who the hell does Britney Spears think she is? She has ONE hit, albeit an annoying one, and believes it is now in the best interests of her floundering career to increase the size...of her boobs. God Almighty. Hey Britney, may I remind you of two other teen dreams who hit it big for about a year before their “image of innocence” bottomed out? Try Cyndi Lauper and Tiffany. And where are they now? In rehab, sister. I wish nothing but the worst for your career. No girl needs to worry about how big her breasts are. It’s genetics, not their fault that they are not very well-endowed. The only size that matters, the only one that girls can control, is dress size, and Miss Spears, queen primadonna, is well below a ten. So no worries. A 17-year-old with silicone inside of her has some mental problems she needs to address. Nothing smacks more of a superficial slut than fake breasts. I hope you're happy with your shallow self, Britney (and spell your name right, too, while you’re busy remaking yourself)...

Speaking of people/bands who owe 99.9% of their success to horny teenage girls or the stereotypical “switch hitters,” those tools in Backstreet Boys and ’N Sync need to realize that just because their parents abused them as children is no excuse to keep making crappy records. And especially ones that involve no talent whatsoever besides standing up on stage and looking pretty while SOMEBODY ELSE (with more than a fifth-grade education) writes, produces, and directs their music. I saw perhaps the most disturbing sight ever back in July while walking (reluctantly, the girlfriend made me do it) through an ultra-preppy Dallas mall: a girl, who was no more than nine years old, pranced out of a Camelot Music store singing that infernal anthem for suicidal thoughts, “Quit Playin’ Games with my Heart,” happily clutching a poster of Justin Timberlake, supposedly the lead guy for “The Boys” (don’t ask me how I know that). Figures that he’s dating the equally ditzy aforementioned Britney Spears. Wow. Great role models. Maybe he’s gonna follow his woman’s lead and get a prosthetic penis, a la Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights. Sorry, Justin, but unlike Marky Mark, NOTHING you do will EVER make you “a big star.” I'll come visit you in two years when you’re flipping burgers at McDonald’s. What a waste. Try appealing to MATURE fans over the age of 13 next time, OK? Congrats on being the losers of the summer.

And now I have said my piece. Many thanks to those copacetic Co-Editors-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, John Dunwoody and Wes Goldsberry, for letting me write a column this year. You guys are putting your journalistic careers on the line by allowing me this inimitable privilege. I certainly know how it feels to be an underappreciated Chief. Anybody with queries, insults, or compliments can contact me at 896-IDGAF. Please join me next week as I continue to try and track down the location of Nelson while also attacking more pressing issues in the news, such as Texas Gov. George W. Bush, Jr’s (our next president) alleged crack usage (media hyperbole), why Pudge Rodriguez deserves the AL MVP, the winners — rather, the bastions of morality — of the summer (including the greatness of Ricky Williams), an introspective look at Bill and Hillary’s futile lives, and the New Jersey Supreme Court’s ludicrous decision to allow homosexual men to be Cub Scout Troop Leaders. It’s always been said that if you want to give our nonpareil nation an enema, you'd place the spout in that dirty state. Heck, I'd even be wary of sending my son off to a few church camps. Parents, think twice before letting your impressionable and naive son join the Boy Scouts. Bruce and “Father Noose” are loose. I'm outta here. Like the French writer and philosopher (the only reputable thing France has engendered) Albert Camus implied in his classics, “The Stranger” (1942) and “The Plague” (1947). I shall always have great concern for the absurdity of the human condition. Until next time, stay hard, maintain the peace, and keep on jammin’. The bitter sage has spoken. See ya...

Love,
Matthew R. Fuller ’00

Guess who's back once again?

CRISPY CRUNCHY

The Creative Illustration Book 1991: Bernstein & Andriulli Inc: Craig Nelson

READED 4