_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Janet Lepke offers guidelines to dieting

By Asutey E. Kinc
News Editor

On Tuesday, February 16th in the 900 room of the College Union, Janet Lepke, a professional nutritionist-therapist, delivered a speech entitled “Should I Break up with My Diet?” Originally from Los Angeles, California, Lepke has recently moved to the Charlotte area where she has started a practice as a licensed dietician.

Before Lepke plunged into the guidelines for a proper diet, she offered some of her personal experiences with dieting. Studying nutrition, she attended Cornell University where she said she “flirted with an eating disorder.” She went on to explain that she “was constantly on some sort of diet.” After discussing her past experiences with eating disorders, Lepke tried to ascertain the audience’s level of involvement with the disease, asking how many people in the room knew someone with an eating disorder. All of those who attended raised their hands. She also gauged the opinion of the audience on several topics with questions such as whether or not the audience thought that people are overweight simply because they have no willpower.

Lepke then talked about the effectiveness of various popular diet products that are on the market today. She felt that Slim Fast, for example, was an ineffective diet. Lepke said that when a person is not consuming enough calories and not exercising, “the order of weight loss is water, lean muscle mass, and then fat.” Explaining that the body first converts excess food into fat when a person is gaining weight again, Lepke said that a Slim Fast diet could actually cause a person to gain weight in the long run. Another faulty dietary supplement that Lepke discussed was metabolism-enhancing pills. “The only thing that really helps metabolism is exercise,” she said.

The next topic that Lepke touched upon was the pressure in today’s society to diet. She discussed the countless magazines such as Shape and Self, which promote weight loss, as well as the images offered to youth of extremely thin women. On television today, 80% of characters are slim. “There are eight supermodels in the world,” she said. “Most of them are airbrushed.” She continued by saying, “We strive for an ideal that just doesn’t exist. It isn’t real.”

According to Lepke, diets can be dangerous when they get out of control. “Seventy percent of bulimic women were previously dieters,” she said. She also cited the many health complications that can arise from improper dieting. Among the health problems listed were gallstones, cardiac disorders, elevated cholesterol, elevated uric acid level, dry skin, muscle cramps, hair loss, decreased libido, anemia, fainting, and fatigue.

Lepke concluded her speech by offering advice about how to eat properly. She encouraged those present to be careful with their approach to dieting. “Be aware of what your motives are,” she said. “What are you hoping to accomplish?” She also warned those considering a diet not to deprive themselves of food when they are hungry. “Eat when you’re hungry,” she said. “Thinking you can’t have it drives you more nuts than just having it.” Finally, Lepke stressed the importance of exercise, recommending that a person exercise at least five days a week for twenty to forty-five minutes.

After the conclusion of her speech, Lepke invited students to ask any questions they might have had pertaining to dieting or nutrition. Lepke’s speech was a part of the activities for eating disorders week.and seniors who have significantly contributed to campus life in one of these areas and who are ranked in the top 35% of their class are eligible for ODK membership. Current members of the Davidson College Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa feel that the following students deserve to be recognized with this award.

Omicron Delta Kappa 1999 New Members

Ms. Yevgeniya V. Arutyunyan ’00
Ms. Jennifer Louise Lyon ’00
Ms. Janice Alicia Baker ’00
Mr. Robert Andrew Magnussen ’00
Ms. Sandra Joan Bishop ’00
Ms. Michelle Lynn Markey ’00
Mr. Charles A. Bringardner III ’00
Mr. Timothy Andrew McCune ’99
Mr. Benjamin Joseph Brown ’00
Mr. Matthew Stephen McKillop ’99
Mr. Omer Lee Burnett III ’99
Ms. Katherine C. McKnight ’00
Mr. Benjamin A. Buxton ’00
Ms. Irene Jane Middleton ’00
Ms. Soosan Elizabeth Calhoun ’00
Ms. Rebecca Joy Montague ’99
Ms. Leslie Carbone ’00
Mr. Jack Osborn Morse, Jr. ’99
Mr. Toh Heah Ch’ng ’99
Mr. Keith Campbell Nelson ’00
Ms. Claire Louise Cheatwood ’99
Mr. James Hilton Nolen ’00
Ms. Cynthia Jane Clark ’00
Mr. Christopher Morris Pruitt ’00
Ms. Elizabeth Ann Clasen ’00
Mr. Christopher Thomas Rackley ’00
Ms. Loraine Elizabeth Cook ’99
Ms. Grace Christian Robinson ’99
Ms. Elizabeth Anglea DeWitt ’99
Mr. Thomas Warren Ross, Jr. ’99
Mr. William Conner Eldridge, Jr. ’99
Ms. Claire Nicole Sisco ’99
Ms. Caitlin Welsh Haskell ’00
Mr. Jesse T. Smallwood ’00
Mr. Andrew Scott Holbrook ’00
Mr. William Walton Stoops ’00
Ms. Abigail Brooke Kniffin ’99
Ms. Julia Lynn Summersgill ’00
Ms. Elizabeth Reid Leavitt ’00
Ms. Margaret Halsey Talbot ’99
Ms. Kirstyn Jean Leuner ’99
Ms. Natasha Balendu Vasavada ’99
Ms. Kendra Lyn Luss ’00
Ms. Kelly Elizabeth Westbrook ’99

Continued from page 1

According to legend, Nian is the reason the New Year is celebrated. Today, the color red is also used for decorative purposes; houses are decorated with red paper, firecrackers are set, and money is given to children in red envelopes. “The Spring Festival is like Christmas celebrations in the United States, but without the religious aspect. It is a time to get together with family and friends, exchange gifts, and decorate the house,” said Dr. Vivian Shen, a Davidson professor of Chinese. Though the Chinese celebrate the Spring Festival worldwide, each family and each region may have a different way of celebrating.

At Davidson, the festivities began on the Chambers lawn with a traditional Lion Dance. A dinner followed the dancing with food from Lotus. The festivities finally came to a close with a Chinese New Year discussion. Though the celebrations at Davidson lasted for about 2 hours, Spring Festival activities can run for three days. The ending of festivities marked the start of the New Year, the year of the Rabbit.

c/o College Communications

Relay for Life

By Frank Glover
Guest Writer

On April 16th and 17th, the Patterson Court Council Service Committee, along with various other organizations and individuals in the North Mecklenburg/Lake Norman area, will host the Relay for Life. Relay for Life is a fundraiser for the American Cancer Society. This event takes place every year; however, this is the first time that Davidson College has hosted it. This year’s Relay for Life will be four times the size of last year’s relay, and organizers hope to raise $50,000 to benefit cancer victims in the North Mecklenburg and Lake Norman areas.

Participants from each team will walk around the IMAC fields from 4:00 p.m. Friday until the same time on Saturday. Food and entertainment will be provided for all participants. Each team consists of 10 to 15 members, each of whom raises money through pledged donations. Team members also participate in walking however long they choose. There must be at least one person from each team walking during the entire relay. This event promises to be fun for its participants as well as beneficial to the entire community. Anyone interested in participating should call Christine Larned (x6200) or Desirae Haylock (x6319) for more information.

Get the EXPOosure you deserve. Increase your visibility to leading employers and recruiters.

www.goldenparachute.com

Exclusive to students and alumni of the top 100 universities

Golden Parachute, Inc.
1000 Fremont Ave., Suite 180
Los Altos, CA 94024
phone (650) 559-9911
fax (650) 559-9944
info@goldenparachute.com

© Golden Parachute, Inc.