THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1999

Fall Convocation will include honors and awards

Former U.S. Ambassador Edward Brynn, currently on staff at UNC-Charlotte, will be the featured speaker this Saturday.

By STRATTON LAWRENCE

College Communications

Davidson College invites the public to join the college community in honoring students, faculty, and a distinguished alumni jurist at
Fall Convocation on Saturday, October 30. The academic procession begins at 10:30 a.m. in J. Spencer Love Auditorium of Chambers
Building. Featured speaker for the occasion will be Ambassador Edward Brynn, associate vice chancellor for international programs at The University
of North Carolina at Charlotte. Brynn served in the U.S. Foreign Service from 1972-1998, including assignment as the Ambassador to
Ghana from 1995-1998. He also served in six other African countries and Sri Lanka, and was a diplomat-in-residence at the
Air Force Academy and staff member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

Brynn has entitled his speech, “America As ‘City on the Hill’ in the 21st Century.” He will speak about “the
end of exceptionalism,” or the end of the notion that what ails the world in general doesn’t affect the United
States because of our unique position and power. He will propose that this country is being increasingly affected by events
and trends beyond our borders, and must work closely with other countries around the globe to help shape our mutual
destinies.

The college will present one of its two top teaching honors, the Thomas Jefferson Award, to an outstanding professor, and
will announce two additional faculty members as new holders of prestigious named professorships.

Three students will receive the Goodwin-Exxon Awards for character, sportsmanship, and consideration of others. One sophomore will receive the Alumni
Association Award for achieving the highest academic average during his or her first year of studies. Historically, two out of
three students who win this award go on to graduate first or second in their class.

In addition, the college will confer an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on J. Dickson Phillips, Jr., a 1943 graduate
who has earned esteem as a soldier, academician, and as a federal judge.

Born in Scotland County, N.C., Phillips joined the armed forces immediately after his graduation from Davidson and served as an
officer in the Seventeenth Airborne Division during the European Campaign of World War II. He received the Bronze Star for
valor, Presidential Citation, and the Purple Heart. After the war, he earned a law degree from UNC, and was editor
of the “Law Review.” He practiced law in Laurinburg and Fayetteville, then returned to UNC as a professor and later
dean of the law school.

In 1978, President Carter appointed him as a judge to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, where he served for
20 years. During that time, the North Carolina Bar Association presented him with its two highest awards.

He also served his alma mater as a trustee for 20 years, and was vice chair of the board. In
that capacity, he wrote the college’s constitution and its Code of Disciplinary Procedure, which has guided the student judicial process.

The ceremony will include musical selections from a student ensemble led by Professor William Lawing and organist Patricia McBrayer, and
an offering from the student Concert Choir, which is led by Professor Raymond Sprague.

Hand Picked New Tea Selection

Choose from many delicious & unique Green Teas, Black Teas, and Herbal Tisanes.

128 S. Main Street • Davidson • 895-9080

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS
Senior Editors

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
LAURA McCANDLISH

Senior Editor
PETER CLARK

Photographer
JAKE HARRINGTON

Advertising Manager
MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

Designers
BEN COTTON
SETH DAVIS

Photographers
JESSICA BOGO
ADAM SOTO

Circulation Managers
CINDY CE
ANNA JUDY

Head Copy Editor
Extraordinaire
WHITNEY BLAKE

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
