THE DAVIDSONIAN - Professor X

Take a guess when you see Ben Wolff around campus this week. Give him a couple of soft pats on the behind and tell him congratulations for being last week’s big winner. He correctly guessed Dr. Susan Roberts of the Political Science department. He had to deliberate for a couple of days before he could pick out this week’s professor, but finally made up his mind. I had a really good time with this interview. Read with care, the column is allusive; the answer not too elusive.

Hailing from a city in the Great Plains that rhymes with “law,” this professor is a Renaissance man of the nineties. He grew up with an older brother, younger sister, mom, dad, and Heidi the beagle. They lived in Plains suburbia—farmland converted into subdivisions and shopping centers. His dad was in the title and escrow end of the real estate business and his mother kept him in line as a teacher at the Catholic prep school he attended. His brother and sister have both settled in Massachusetts. His brother is a Jesuit in Cambridge, and his sister is a dietician in Worcester.

In elementary school, he and his best friend John Olson rode BMX bikes and got into a little mischief now and again. They were once responsible for having an all-school assembly called, but I couldn't get the whole story out of him. In high school, he bounced around from sport to sport showing off his multiple skills in basketball, baseball, football, and track. As a football player, he played both as a wingback on offense and a strong corner on defense. As a senior, he was sixth in the state (rhymes with Alaska) in the long jump.

He went to St. John’s University in Minnesota but transferred his sophomore year to Creighton University for the excellent program they are renowned for. It was at St. John’s that he met Steven Saupe, the professor that influenced him to become a professor himself. He admired Dr. Saupe for the enthusiasm and genuine care he brought to the classroom. Dr. Ramirez of the Davidson Psychology department actually taught at St. John’s and was friends with Dr. Saupe. It is a small world.

At Creighton, the atmosphere was highly competitive. He cut loose every week at the Howard Street Tavern, for a break from the intense studying. He performed solo every Wednesday night, singing and playing covers on the guitar. He still plays often and is into David Wilcox and Dave Matthews Band. His two favorite DMB songs to play are “Satellite” and “Crash.” When he wasn’t crooning in smoky bars or studying, he was cycling pretty seriously.

He was accepted to Indiana University grad school in Bloomington and continued cycling with even more intensity in the hill country of Southern Indiana. He worked hard and gained some good teaching experiences; sometimes lecturing to halls filled with over 120 students. The job market when he graduated was tough, to say the least. Obviously, he landed solid employment here and is really enjoying it. He likes Davidson because he can leave his office unlocked, walk home for lunch, and get to know a lot of interesting people. When he is not walking through downtown, look for him roaring by on his 750 Ace American Classic Honda motorcycle. He describes it as having a sort of 1940s style. He loves it when Harley die-hards mistake his bike for a vintage Hog, and then walk away in embarrassment. I suspected the novel “Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance” influenced his purchase, and it did. I agree with him that this book is thought-provoking and support his recommendation of it to everyone.

To end the interview this week, I thought I'd add a little spice to the column by doing a little word association. I said a word and then he said the first word that came to him—
I said “Tree,” he said “Pinnate” (a sort of leaf veining structure).
I said “Body,” he said “Jesse” (I hope there are some WWF fans out there).
I said “Love,” he said “Sexual Chocolate” (if you haven’t seen Eddie Murphy’s “Coming to America,” get up and go straight to Blockbuster).
I said “Anger,” he said “Teenagers.” (I think he was thinking about anger management).
I said “DNA,” he said “Jim Watson” (You know, the scientist that discovered the double helix with that other guy, Crick, and Rosalind Franklin). He actually heard Jim Watson deliver a paper on the double helix at grad school. Hint, hint.

Email your guess at this week’s professor and the professor you would like to know more about to brmemillan@davidson.edu. Good Luck.

Brandt McMillan

I love FOX. Not the cute little animals, but the big brash television network. “Why” is a question that so many other educated people ask, and the answer is quite easy and to the point. Fox has football, “The Simpsons,” VIP, and When Sh#T Blows Up 38. NFL football needs no introduction; males everywhere pull themselves out of whatever condition Saturday night has left them in and, like a microwave, give that dehydrated burrito called your brain new life and warmth. I mean, it’s football, what else is there to explain?

The Simpsons have been on TV since... I don’t know how long, but a really long time. And, the family of Homer has developed a cult following. I know in my room, no matter WHAT else is going on, The Simpsons starts at 6 and 11:30 and it is watched. End of story. Personally, I’m not the hell-bent fan most around here seem to be, and to be honest, I hadn’t watched it until I got to this institution of higher learning. Although it’s paramount to religion for some, sometimes I have to take a stand when it’s Monday night football... it’s gotten ugly, but I’m learning to write with my left hand and Dave’s skull and femur are healing nicely.

VIP is not a Fox show, it’s syndicated, but I included it because I know whose job I really want now. VIP is Pamela “If those are reduced...” Anderson's new television program. The main characters are Ms. Baywatch, three other attractive girls, and some dude. This guy has quite possibly the greatest job ever. All he does is learn a few lines, play with large and expensive fake guns, and hang out with Pam and her buddies. Also, it’s not like the dude is a great actor either, so when... if... I manage to graduate, I want his job.

Finally, the greatest show on Fox is not football or even the noble Simpsons. The best show on Fox is ANY of the Random-Violence-Caught-On-Tape shows. I guess it’s a strictly male behavior, but I love watching junk explode! Don’t think I’m some kind of freak show, nobody likes seeing people get hurt, but big fireballs are OK, right? In my opinion, the World’s Scariest Police Chases or World’s Scariest Explosions are the greatest. It’s superior to anything else on television. Has anybody ever seen Dr. Greene from ER flip his car over 14 times... get out... and continue running from the cops? I think not! What about Dawson? His little punk ass has NEVER done anything as cool as get attacked by the polar bear and live or jump off a burning building to safety! So anyway, the next time you’re channel surfing and you come to FOX... stop, see what horriblethings are going on. I mean all the World’s Scariest Police Chases is real life Dukes of Hazzard, although I doubt the drunks and crack dealers stop to see if Roscoe or Enis is OK. I'll see y'all later. 

Jimmy Burford ’02

Singing in the rain

Rain is wet. Yes, I know what a profound statement that is, but it is also true. I discovered this fact the other evening as my friends and I were traversing the muddy path into town in search of the perfect chocolate-chip-cookie-dough ice cream. On our return journey, as we skipped down the empty rain-soaked street, a vision came to me: Gene Kelly in his famous movie scene, “Singing in the Rain.” First, I began to lightly hum: “I’m singing in the rain.” Then, as I became braver, my humming transformed into a low whistle. From the low whistle, the song proceeded into a loud whistle, and as my companions picked up on my tune, we broke out into verse. Picture a group of rain-drenched, ice cream-laden Davidson students skipping along Main Street reprising Gene Kelly’s theme song from a fifty-year-old musical. Just wait, it gets better. After this outburst of rhyme, I became emboldened. So, as we passed by Chambers on our way to our respective dorms, I entreated my comrades to join me in an outburst of expression and just plain absurdity. (It should be mentioned that we were in full control of our mental faculties at the time.) We sauntered up to the front steps of Chambers and I began my oration: The Gettysburg Address... What we said that fateful night is really rather irrelevant. It was the action of which I wish to speak. What on earth possessed me to make an utter fool out of myself? As a Davidson student, the adjectives that come to mind are reserved, insightful, and studious. These do not connote someone who wakes up the resident skunk late on a Tuesday night. I needed to vent some stress. I am now over a month into college, and I have come to a very disturbing realization: I am not a genius. Hell, at Davidson, I am not even above average. My “genius” was a fallacy I had come to believe after a very unchallenging high school experience, one in which A’s were plentiful and work was casual. This is simply not the case at Davidson. What is the solution to that which ails me? I can plod along, satisfying the requirements to graduate. I can transfer to the University of Texas where I have no doubt that I can excel at whatever I do. I suppose I can study harder.... But this brings me back to a point I made in a previous article. Will studying harder do any good? I intend to test this theory, at the very least. I cannot afford to continue on the current course. What is the value of a $125,000 education? Is it more than a prestigious diploma? It is a solid education from which I will be able to draw throughout the rest of my adult life. Right? I wonder whether I am getting my money’s worth. Is there a point to it all? Will any of it matter in the long run? I cannot answer these questions. I simply know that I have been led to believe in the importance of an education all my life. I also was led to believe that A’s were the “end all and be all” of life. As the past few weeks have all too strongly pointed out, if they are “the end all,” then I am ended.

Note: The names and actions of my “comrades” on the evening in question have been omitted to protect the innocent. It should also be noted that anyone experiencing a deep pity at my circumstance is invited to contact my professors on my behalf.

Andrew MacDonald '03

Are you kiddin’ me?

First Night Down was a great night to start the Freshmen’s first year of social fun and mischief. The parties were jumpin’ and it seemed that everyone moved from party to party, a perfect way to start the year. Each freshman got a taste of the different people and different houses. Second Night Down... Second Night Down felt like a Saturday night at the end of last year. Great fun, but there were two distinct parties in which people from each party had no intention of going to the other. Are you kiddin’ me? It’s only Second Night Down and freshmen already know where they want to be and whom they want to hang out with? Frankly, this doesn’t make much sense. The only reason why any freshmen think they know where they want to hang out is because their upper-class buddies have informed them upon which eating houses are cool and which fraternities they should watch out for. Two freshmen girls were at Party #1, and about to head on over to Party #2, when a fraternity brother explained to the fine ladies that the drummer at Party #2 broke his hand and they had stopped playing. “So stay here,” he says. Are you kiddin’ me? As funny as this may be, we all know that there was no drummer with a broken hand on Saturday night. I can understand if he was trying to work some “game,” however in this situation, the intention was otherwise. This is the perfect example of the kind of nonsense that doesn’t need to come from the upperclassmen. Stop and think for a second. Second Night Down, where were all the baseball players? Where were all the soccer girls? Where were all the volleyball players? Where were all the soccer guys? When you think about it, it’s pretty amazing how each one of these groups stayed at one party and didn’t take advantage of the fact that there was more than one party, especially freshmen who haven’t experienced all aspects of Patterson Court. To all upperclassmen: Let the freshmen make up their own minds. Even if you are partial to one eating house or fraternity, encourage the first year students to go around and check it all out. On top of this, the petty bickering between houses and fraternities is getting old. It seems all of our heads have hardened and we can no longer venture away from the house in which we associate with. The fact is, we are at a school where the Greek and eating house system is such that we have the fortune of being able to walk into any house without being turned away. To the Freshmen: You are at Davidson indefinitely because each one of you can think for yourself. Although you may respect your Hall Counselors, your upper-class teammates, your big brothers or big sisters, don’t listen to them in regards to Patterson Court. Experience it for yourself and make your own decisions! Hopefully, with the lead of the freshmen class, weekends this year can be more like First Night Down and less like Second Night Down.

Ryan Stroker ’01

“All things considered, I’d say that was a successful date. I didn’t feel the need to rush home and scrub myself down with gasoline or call my therapist.”

For the Coolest StickWorld Apparel, Greeting Cards, Games, & Accessories, Visit Us at: www.stickworld.com

StickWorld Rule #155: You can send me to my room, but you can’t make me clean it!

For the Coolest StickWorld Apparel, Greeting Cards, Games & Accessories, Visit Us at: www.stickworld.com