The Davidsonian

A LOBUNDAWLLDXUBJORAWLLBERAS

“The Nation’s Foremost
College Weekly”
Class of 2003

A profile!

ESTABLISHED 1914 NEWS 2

Kickboxing:
It’s damn manly!

OPINIONS 6

Men’s soccer comes up short,
despite stellar performances!

SPORTS 18

Positive dissatisfaction,
i.e. satisfaction?

AOCL 15

Special Fall Phone Directory Pull-Out Section — Page 7

Annual Cake Race subverts construction obstacles

Laura McCandlish
News Editor

Despite construction obstacles at Johnston Gym and Richardson Track, the Annual Freshmen Cake Race was held last Wednesday. The race originated over 60 years ago at Davidson, when it was mandatory for all freshmen to run in order to determine new prospects for the cross country team. On Wednesday, both varsity athletes and non-athletes raced to win one of the 109 donated cakes, distributed evenly between the male and female winners.

The course was approximately 1.7 miles, yet the route differed from past years due to construction. Runners began on the Field Hockey field instead of the track, and the course continued past the tennis courts towards Little Library, and then down Main St. following around Patterson Court, finishing again on the Field Hockey field. Jimmy Swansboro ’03, a cross country runner, finished first for the men with an unofficial time of 8:42. His teammate, Trip Young ’03, placed second with a time of 8:45. Caroline Bennett ’03, also a cross country runner, placed first for the women, although the first 19 female finishers unintentionally cut Patterson Court out of the run because the course was poorly marked. Liz Gross ’03 placed second for the women. Caroline said, “I really enjoyed the race. It was fun to run with my teammates and share cake with the team and my hall.” She chose a hot-air balloon cake donated by Math Professor, Dr. Robert Whitton.

As the gun sounded, the Freshmen males sprinted from Field Hockey Field.

Dan Wingate

For Swansboro, the race “felt like racing in high school one last time.” He enjoyed racing against Young, his teammate. Swansboro added, “Trip should have won but he had run earlier in the day already.”

Young said, “I think the race was a good way for everyone to come out, have a little competitive fun, and win some cool cakes. I don’t know who made those cakes, but they were really good. I'd really like to thank whoever made them.” Young’s prize was two chocolate star-shaped cakes, surrounded by a sea of M&M’s.

Joel Sadler ’03, who is Young’s roommate and a varsity soccer player, placed tenth in the race. Young said, “The night before, Joel and I were joking around about the race. Now our claim to fame is that we have the most athletic room in the freshman class.”

The Men’s Cross-Country coach, Gary Andrew, felt the race was successful. He said, “I was pleased that my team finished in the first four spots for the men. We also had six or seven of the top thirteen finishers overall, so I was happy.” (For more information please see Sports on page 18)

INDEX

EDITORIALS 5
OPINIONS 6
FALL PHONE DIRECTORY 7
ARTS & LIVING 15
SPORTS 17

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

DEADLINES & AD RATES

All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles received after this deadline will not be edited or placed.* These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s) or dropped off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks can be used if file is saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40
For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

College Communications

The Class of 2003 embarks upon their Davidson Adventure — article on next page.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday Evening or Saturday events supersede the Friday deadline.