THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Romantic Comedy” laughs its way through love

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

The cast and crew of “Romantic Comedy” proved that love can be a laughing matter and that success doesn’t have to be based on experience. Opening night—Wednesday, February 17—was filled with comic and entertaining performances. Five members of the six-person cast were making their Davidson mainstage debut; it was certainly a success. This success was enhanced by the commendable efforts of the production crew.

Sitting in Hodson Hall before the opening of the play, one was struck by the stage itself. All the action of the play was staged in the study of Jason Carmichael’s (Dan Cooke) penthouse. From the predominant greens and browns in the room to the backdrop of the New York skyline, the stage seemed to be a professional setup. The stage lighting deepened as the action began with music. It was an inauspicious beginning to a good play, as the happy, bouncing melody was instantly irritating. With a ring of the telephone, the stage burst into light and the story began.

The first two appearances were made by Blanche Dailey (Lee Robison), a forty-two-year-old agent, and Carmichael, a thirty-four-year-old writer on a downward ebb. Carmichael answers the telephone with a short, angry conversation with his ex-writing partner. From this point, the romantic comedy begins. Jason needs a new partner. Coincidentally, Blanche has received a manuscript from a young writer named Phoebe “P.J.” Craddock (Andra Whitt). Even more coincidentally, P.J. decides to visit Jason that very day to talk about the manuscript. The day she visits is the day of Jason’s wedding to Allison St. James (Ann Strauser).

The storyline, with its tug and pull between Jason and Phoebe, examines a host of issues including the nature of love and friendship. One of the most compelling issues touched upon by the play is the relationship between constrained passion and creativity. Jason and Phoebe work as writing partners for a number of years while Jason stays married to Allison.

See Stellar performances on page 11

Mardi Gras comes to Davidson

Campus-wide formal reinstated

By Ketts Hetherington
Arts & Living Editor

Even the snowfall of the previous day did not keep the spirit of New Orleans from coming to Davidson on Saturday, February 20th. The cold night surrounded the tent set up in Richardson Plaza. Inside, the climate was as warm as the bayou. This campus-wide formal, the Mardi Gras Masquerade, was arranged by the Social Contingency of the Union Board, headed by Thirza Sayers ’99. The Social Contingency, whose chairs include Kirk Willingham, Eric Arnold, Jenny Nolan, Nureya Namaz, Kurt Yusi, Christopher Brantley, and Thornwell Simons, is pleased that more than five hundred students attended the event. The Board only expected the event to sell between three and four hundred tickets.

The dance was a community event, drawing support from several professors and their families. The celebration began at 9:30 p.m. on Saturday night and continued until 2:00 a.m. Sunday. The high turnout can be attributed to the committee’s creation of an event that had nearly ubiquitous appeal. Chip Plybon, who was recently featured in Chambers Gallery, acted as DJ for the first hour of the dance. Plybon was followed by the Flipped Fedora Orchestra. Well known in the South for their swing music, the band played on Sunday the 21st at Swing 1000, a popular dance club in nearby Charlotte. Additional entertainment included a caricaturist and a fortune teller.

A campus-wide formal was an annual event at Davidson until North Carolina raised the drinking age in 1984 to twenty-one. In fear that students would not support a dry event, the campus-wide formal was canceled. Although a growing pressure exists for a dry campus, the Union Board decided to reinstitute the dance with alcohol for those of age.Legal age. The reason for bringing back the campus formal is that many students complained that Saturday nights at the Student Union paled in comparison to Saturday night events on Patterson Court. A great effort went into the arrangement of the formal, and, by all appearances, it was a success. Carried on independently of Patterson Court, the Union-sponsored formal broke the mold for a Saturday night at Davidson. The reinstatement of the campus-wide formal may prove to reemphasize Union social events. Substantial student attendance and enthusiasm about the event will hopefully ensure the event’s return next winter.

Cellular Forms
By John A. Dunwoody | Co-Editor in Chief

This past Friday was more than just another example of the freakish nature of the Carolina weather system; it also marked the beginning of Michael Miga’s student show, titled “A Collection of New Paintings,” in the Smith Gallery at the Visual Arts Center (VAC). The odd assortment of lightning, sleet, snow, and rain seemed strangely appropriate for Miga’s show. It is not that he has attempted to explain the secrets of our random weather patterns, but that he seems to see the beauty deep within or even beyond the external surfaces of nature.

The work that Miga has done possesses an underlying vibrating quality. They are alive and animated. Each painting seems to be a reflection upon the most microscopic reality that makes up life—the cell. His work appears to be an intense study on the body, but not in the traditional external form. He probes beneath the surface to reveal the internal complexities and beauties of the microscopic. The colors on the paintings resonate with a sense of power which heightens the overall movement within each of the works.

In order to achieve the cellular aspects within his paintings, Miga incorporates various dyes, washes, encaustics, oils, acrylics, and solvents. When examined closely, the combination of these mediums and chemicals reflects the cellular quality of the work. Much like the thin layers that exist within the cellular realm, Miga’s work possesses a sense of depth where the foreground and background blur. The cellular images float on and within the multiple layers of paint on the canvases and linens. Each painting becomes akin to the universes seen only through a magnifying lens—a beauty achieved through the mounting cells between two thin sheets of glass. Miga captures this unique beauty and enlarges it to a scale rarely seen. This collection of work will be on display through the remainder of this week.

On the Scene at Davidson College

Publicity — Eating Disorders. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. at the Conversation Pit Wall.
Video — Eating Disorders. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. at the Conversation Pit.
Coffeehouse. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Romantic Comedy. Two thumbs up! 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
Twenty-One Year Old Night. What could be more fun? 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Art Exhibits. “Table to Tomb” exhibit all week. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the Belk VAC.
CROP Lunch. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Wellness Seminar. Go there. Listen. Get well. 1:00 - 2:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Free Play Basketball. Once again, it's free. 2:00 - 6:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
Coffeehouse. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Spring Break!

TUESDAY
Eating Disorder Awareness continues. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. at various locations on campus.

WEDNESDAY
Girl Scout Cookie Sale! You know you gotta buy at least one box. 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. on the College Union Patio.
“The Opposite of Sex.” Showing in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

THURSDAY
More Girl Scout Cookies! On sale at the College Union Patio from 3:30 - 5:00 p.m.
Indoor Soccer. From free play basketball to indoor soccer, it's prime time, baby! 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.
“The Opposite of Sex.” Showing in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m.