‘12... THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tree of the Week
The Flowering Dogwood blooms this spring

ARTS & LIVING

The EAC does more than recycle
By Brian CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

The Flowering Dogwood (Cornus florida) is in bloom all over our campus this week. Although it is a common tree, many people know little about it. These trees are spectacular year-round, with scarlet leaves in the fall and showy red fruits into the winter, but dogwoods are most striking in early spring. Surprisingly, the beautiful white petals that are so distinctive of dogwoods are not, in fact, petals at all. The four true petals are yellowish-green and tightly crowded in a head less than an inch across. Surrounding this head are the large, eye-catching “bracts,” which are 3-4” across and white or sometimes pink.

In addition to its beautiful presence year-round, the dogwood has a variety of interesting uses. The hard wood is extremely shock resistant and useful for making weaving shuttles. In addition, it is used in spools, pulleys, mallet heads, and jeweler’s blocks. Native Americans used the aromatic bark and roots as a herbal remedy for malaria, and they extracted a red dye from the dogwood’s roots.

The dogwood, like many trees, is captivating beyond its beauty and utility. It has found its way into the stories of our culture. There is a legend that at the time of the Crucifixion the dogwood was the size of the oak and other forest trees. So firm and strong was the tree that it was chosen as the timber of the cross. To be used thus for such a cruel purpose greatly distressed the tree, and Jesus, nailed upon it, sensed this, and in His gentle pity for all sorrow and suffering said to it: “Because of your regret and pity for My suffering, never again shall the dogwood tree grow large enough to be used as a cross. Henceforth it shall be slender and bent and twisted and its blossoms shall be in the form of a cross... two long and two short petals. And in the center of the outer edge of each petal there will be nail prints, brown with rust and stained with red, and in the center of the flower will be a crown of thorns, and all who see it will remember.”

Take a closer look at the Flowering Dogwood this week. The campus has several clusters: in the planters in front of the library, amidst the azaleas behind Martin Science Building, and beneath the Magnolias in front of Sentelle and Duke. Like the dogwood, shine with the joy of spring while still remaining sensitive to the suffering so close at hand.

DCSO spring concert to feature outstanding sophomore cellist
By Wesley H. GOLDSBERRY
Co-Editor in Chief

On Thursday, April 22nd, the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will present its spring concert at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The ensemble, directed by Dr. Richard Prior, will be giving a warm-up performance of the program at The Pines this Thursday afternoon. The program will include Mozart’s overture to “The Marriage of Figaro,” Beethoven’s Symphony No. 1, and Edouard Lalo’s Cello Concerto. The concerto will be performed by sophomore cellist Lauren Baird, a native of Temple, Tex. and winner of the 1998-99 DCSO Concerto Competition, which was held on January 30 of this year.

Lalo’s Concerto is a marvelous work, a remarkably well-conceived, adventurous, three-movement excursion into the unique aural realm of the cello, where depth and lyricism magically collide. The work presents its soloist with frequently difficult passage work, which Baird tackles most impressively. The concert should be a fitting spectacle to conclude a dynamite year for the DCSO. Admission is free for all, so everyone should plan to attend.

By JT Tolentino AND Betsy Nosler
Staff Writers

At Davidson College, where green lawns and trees coexist with beer cans and plastic bottles, there is an organization that is dedicated to environmental awareness. For several years now, the Environmental Action Coalition (EAC) has been active in promoting environmental awareness in the college community. The traditional “big” project of the EAC has been, and indeed remains, recycling. The EAC has undertaken several new projects to help Davidson College tackle some of its current environmental problems.In early February, the EAC hosted the ACS Sustainable Campus Development Conference at Davidson College, a workshop in which 12 Southern private colleges participated. The participants worked on finding new ways of adapting college facilities to become more “earth friendly.” As a result of the workshop, the EAC formed the Sustainable Campus Committee, consisting of students, faculty, and maintenance staff. The goal of this committee is to implement into Davidson’s campus what was discussed at the workshop, such as ways to improve energy and water conservation. 

The newest EAC project, the Adopt-A-Stream program, which is under the direction of JT Tolentino, has recently adopted the South Prong Rocky River. The program’s mission is to combat pollution in area streams and to promote awareness of the sources of stream pollution. Currently, the program is still in the developing stages. Right now, the EAC’s main focus is Earth Day, which will be celebrated on Thursday, April 22 from 11 am - 2 pm. Earth Day’s goal is to educate the media, the political arena, and the public by drawing attention to environmental issues. On Earth Day, the EAC will be sponsoring a number of activities, including crafts, a letter-writing campaign, and the “recycling game.” The EAC has expanded the Earth Day celebration into an “Earth Week,” which will include environmental speakers and a clothing drive. Anyone interested in helping with Earth Day is invited to attend an organizational meeting Tuesday, April 12 at 8:00 pm in the Union Morrison Room, or contact the EAC co-chairs, Sara Massie and Jason Todd.

Menu
The Soda Shop | SINCE 1951
Breakfast
Omelets
Pancakes
Burritos
104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC
Eat-in Take-out

On the Scene at Davidson College
Coffeehouse. Come drink caffeine. 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Senior Art Major. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the Belk Visual Arts Center.
Jumpin’ Java. More caffeine. You'll be jumping around. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.
Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. About 1/4 of the school can go. 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Rebecca Radcliff. Go see Rebecca in the 900 Room from 7:30 - 9:00 p.m.
CROP. They grow ‘em, you eat them. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Shane Windmyer. Go see him in the Morrison Room from 6:30 - 9:30 p.m.
Naoto Nakagawa. The artist speaks from 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the VAC.
Scholarship Weekend. So it begins. On campus all day.
Coffeehouse. You know what it is. 8:15 - 11:15 p.m. in the Home Room.
Decision Davidson. They’ll be deciding. Be on your best behavior...
George Clinton. See News press release for times.
Chess Club. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Conference Room.
Jumpin’ Java. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the Outpost.
Amnesty International. Meeting in the Wilson Room from 8:00 - 9:00 p.m.

TUESDAY
Professor Lance K. Stell. He is a professor and he will be in the 900 Room from 4:00 - 5:00 p.m.
Chess Club. Concentrate! Checkmate! 7:00 - 9:00 p.m.
Irene Kacandes Lecture. She'll be speaking from 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Death Penalty Forum. An interesting topic. In the Home Room from 7:00 - 9:00 p.m.
J. Alfred Broaddus, Jr. Go see him in Chambers Gallery from 8:00 - 9:30 p.m.
“The Last Days of Disco.” It's a movie. 9:30 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Kayak Rolling. It's fun! 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. at Baker Sports Complex.
FLAG Meeting. In the Wilson Room from 9:00 - 10:00 p.m.
College Republicans. The GOP. It's fun! 9:15 - 10:15 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
“The Last Days of Disco.” Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Concert Choir/Chamber Singers. In the DCPC Sanctuary from 8:00 - 9:30 p.m.
African Drums. A performance at the BSC from 8:00 - 9:30 p.m.
Eddie From Ohio. ‘Nough said. Performing in the 900 Room from 9:30 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.
CHRIST SUPERSTAR! See article in Arts & Living for times.
Juggling. From 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Piano Recital. From 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
Jumpin’ Java. Same time and place as Sunday.