Stop vandalizing the trails. This past weekend, someone vandalized the Davidson College cross country trails by pulling all of the posts with directional arrows and the college’s green “Private Property” signs out of the ground. Additionally, all of the white posts with directional arrows were cut in half, most likely with an ax. Most of the signs and destroyed posts were left to the side of the trails, with one on the back men’s loop strewn across the trail approximately 200 meters from the women’s two-mile marker. Most likely, the vandalism occurred late Saturday night or early Sunday morning.

As a four-year member of the Davidson College women’s cross country team, I am deeply saddened and angered by the vandalism on the trails. Hundreds of Davidson athletes, coaches, other students, faculty, staff, and local residents regularly run, bike, or walk on the trails for exercise and recreation. Normally, the trails are a place of scenic, natural beauty and a stress-relieving refuge for those seeking to escape the rigors of college life without leaving campus. Now, the trails’ attributes are temporarily ruined not only by Duke Power’s annual underbrush cutting, but by the senseless vandalism of the signs and arrow posts.

The white signposts were newly constructed and painted before this school year’s cross country season because they were old and needed to be replaced in preparation for the college’s hosting of this year’s Southern Conference Cross Country Championships. Since the cross country trails are almost entirely maintained by the cross country and track and field coaches, vandalism puts an enormous financial and time-consuming burden on these coaches who end up repairing the damage. Moreover, the cross country and track and field teams are already limited for practice facilities—they share the field hockey and practice football fields with those respective teams as the new track is under construction on Richardson Field—and they cannot afford to lose the trails to vandals as another practice facility option.

It is frightening that anyone would consciously commit a premeditated act of random violence and destruction by vandalizing the signs on the cross country trails. It is even more frightening that the perpetrators of this crime were probably a group of intoxicated Davidson males who, knowing the exact locations of all of the signs, would go out on the trails at night with axes or sledgehammers and vandalize a varsity sports team’s practice and racing facility. This incident is more than a college prank; it is a serious crime. I implore the campus police to regularly patrol the cross country trails in order to protect the safety of the people using them and to prevent any further or future vandalism on the trails. Additionally, anyone having information regarding the vandalism should contact the cross country and track and field coaches and the police, because this crime should not go unpunished. Meanwhile, keep your cars, shovels, sledgehammers, and axes off the cross country trails; they don’t belong there.

Laura Wolfrom ’99

I have a new pet peeve. Maybe it’s not explicitly in the Honor Code, but I just know it’s in there somewhere. Thrice in the past two weeks have I gone to the library to do research. Two large research papers loom before me this month, and frankly, the thought frightens me more than a little; so I have packed my trusty bookbag and trekked off to the library. Ready to roll up my sleeves and dig into the papers, I diligently situate myself in front of a CHAL computer and begin browsing through the electronic index. After coming up with no hits, the computer’s equivalent of “try a new topic, moron,” I finally uncover a topic with possibilities, or at least some potential.

I’m not knocking our library—for its size, it’s quite good. But when I discover possible books on the computer, I hurriedly write down the Dewey Decimal number and rush to grab the books I have so painstakingly found through my extensive searches. Imagine my chagrin when the book is not in its rightful place. Now, this is a small school and an even smaller library. I don’t want to search all the carrels to find the book I need, but I WILL do it out of sheer desperation. For the sake of the Honor Code, have the courtesy to check your books out—do not abscond with them to your carrel. I get a small thrill when I actually see ‘Available’ underneath the book I need on the computer screen. For the sake of the Honor Code, have the courtesy to check your books out—do not abscond with them to your carrel.A school with a student body of 1788, I think it’s almost adequate. But frankly, I don’t always have the time to do inter-library loans for papers and presentations, due to the fact that our library may have one book on a topic for which I need seven. But that’s not my pet peeve. When I finally find the book I need on the computer screen, to then not find it on the shelf, because OF COURSE it must be in the library as there are no sensors on the doors (Honor Code), is incredibly frustrating. So all of you book thieves out there, you had better change your errant ways—I want my books, and no carrel is safe in the meantime.

Kristen Taylor ’01

You can learn to wake up late every day. It doesn’t matter what time I go to bed because inevitably I wake up late. Something about sleep just stimulates my neurons, and I seem to dream well. I walk across campus to visit an old friend. She seems to always have my sausage patty well heated and my biscuits soft and flaky—those biscuits are to die for. A mixture of coffee, cocoa, and hazelnut jazz and my first thoughts are upon me. I stumble into mid-morning sunlight and notice something to my left. “Deja vu again,” I mutter to myself. Well, maybe not deja vu, because that sixty-year-old fat man lounging half-naked in a lawn chair with the Diet Mountain Dew has been there all week. “What is he doing?” I ask myself half-inquisitive, half-jealous. Maybe you have noticed him, too. He looks at the bricks all day long in the beautiful Carolina sun. He looks at bricks all day so I guess he must be the supervisor. Boy, would I like to have that job. I bet he says stuff like, “Move that one here,” and “That’s a bit much adhesive compound. Lighten the load, soldier.” He probably has some great stories to tell about life. I think I might go talk to him.

Speaking of bricks, I think I may have stumbled onto something. Life, in a way, is like Davidson College’s bricklaying. You must keep attaining; higher and higher and more and more accomplishments and credentials. You think you have gotten it all taken care of, you think everything is in place and that nothing else needs to be changed. But halt, there are a lot of bricks yet to be laid! Shee-it, we could cover the campus in brick. Wouldn’t that perfectly nice road yonder look better in brick, and maybe even that path over there, I think it needs more brick. You ask your friends and all agree that brick is cheaper—and it costs only five percent more than wood. Brick lasts longer, too. A wooden road would be interesting, but rather impractical and splinters hurt like hell. Back to the bricks. Bricks represent the movement through life. One more brick stacked onto the template of life is analogous to the movement up the social ladder into the higher echelon of economic stability and freedom determines your success. Maybe you agree with my stereotype or maybe not. I don’t care, regardless. Next time you step outside and see the edifices and structures of bricks, think of my analogy. Is your direction fulfilling, is it your soul? Is what you are doing enjoyable to the very last drop, or have you caught a ride on your parent’s bandwagon? Do you want to stack another brick on the curve ball of life, or do you want to ride the curve ball? I don’t think a lot of us live. Replace that brick with mashed potatoes. There’s plenty left over in the KA kitchen, but just imagine how much fun walking on a road of mashed potatoes would be! Life ain’t all that complicated, but we have mastered a way of complicating it. We have a way of pissing ourselves off, of creating stress and misery. It doesn’t have to be that way. Don’t read that boring History book; read a book you enjoy and from which you will truly learn. It doesn’t matter what you are going to be in life as long as you are participating in it fully. Walk around the bricks and tear up the grass. Spit on yourself and laugh. Make your own path!

Chris Murray ’01