12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

Features hyper-real paintings by Naoto Nakagawa

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

Press RELEASE

Song of the Earth, an exhibition of hyper-realistic paintings by Japanese artist Naoto Nakagawa, will open on Thursday, April 1,
in the William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at Davidson College and remain open throughout the month. The exhibition’s paintings
feature clods of grass that can almost be described as portraits. Some are studies on site in the field, and
some are abstracted from their natural environment and brought into the artist’s studio for meticulous observation.

Nakagawa will be in Davidson to talk about his work at 7 p.m. on Thursday, April 15. The exhibition and
his talk are in the Katherine & Tom Belk Visual Arts Center at the corner of Main and Griffith Streets.
A reception will follow the talk.

A full-color poster that includes an essay by Gail Levin, noted art historian and former curator at the Whitney Museum
of American Art in New York, is available at the Van Every Gallery. The exhibition and poster are funded in
part with grants from the North Carolina Arts Council, a state agency, and the Japan Foundation (pending).

Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays, and noon to 4 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, with hours
extended until 8 p.m. on Thursday evenings. The galleries will be closed from April 3–6 for Easter break. Free parking
is available behind the Visual Arts Center, and the building is wheelchair accessible. For additional information, call 704/892-2519, or 704/892-2344
weekdays.

Born in Kobe, Japan, in 1944, Naoto Nakagawa studied at Naniwa Art University in Osaka before leaving for New York
City in 1962 at age 18. He attended the Brooklyn Museum Art School and began exhibiting his paintings at a
number of galleries. His first solo exhibition of paintings, in 1968, was held at the Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich
Village, where for a time the avant-garde Judson Dance Theater attracted many prominent artists and intellectuals.

In the following years, Nakagawa established himself as a painter of hyper-realism, contrasting mechanical objects such as television sets and
electric fans with birds, flowers, fish, masks, and shells. He has always been concerned with getting as close as possible
to the very skin of nature. In preparation for new paintings in the past, he performed a ritual “earth dance,”
rolling himself in the canvas after a layer of paint had been applied, “to free myself, to imprint myself like
a fossil into the painting.”

In a catalogue essay written in 1991, art historian Dore Ashton described Nakagawa’s work. Ashton wrote, “Nakagawa longs to come
so close to nature ‘of and on its own’ that he spent many years seeking almost magical ways to enter
into its being... what is significant in this celebration of nature is the victory of an artist who wishes to
erase the obstacles to his union with the earth.”

Song of the Earth at Davidson College is curated by Perry L. Nesbitt, director of the Van Every/Smith Galleries. The
paintings in the exhibit present an irrepressible majesty and natural beauty. In one, Blades of Grass, 1998, Nakagawa presents an
earth clod against the backdrop of the city, invoking comparisons and attention to dualities. Lingering in Nakagawa’s thoughts is the
passion of the painter Jackson Pollock, who, when asked if he painted from nature, replied, “I am nature.”

In the United States, Nakagawa’s work has been exhibited at the Nielson Gallery in Boston, and at New York’s OK
Harris Gallery, Allen Frumkin Gallery, and Victoria Monroe Fine Art Gallery. In Japan, he has exhibited at the Fuji Television
Gallery in Tokyo, and the Kasahara Gallery in Osaka. His work has been included in numerous museum exhibitions, most recently
the landmark Scream Against the Sky: Japanese Art Since 1945, which originated at the Yokohama Museum in Japan and traveled
to the Guggenheim Museum Soho, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and the Center for the Arts at Yerba
Buena Gardens.

Nakagawa received a National Endowment for the Arts grant for painting in 1978. His work is included in many private
and public collections, among them the New York Museum of Modern Art, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the Worcester
Museum, and the National Museums of Modern Art in Kyoto and Osaka, Japan. He currently teaches at Columbia University and
the Parsons School of Design in New York. In addition, Nakagawa has been invited to lecture at the Japan Society,
Asia Society, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, Manhattan Cable Television,
National Public Radio, and various colleges and universities.

Tadao Ogura, former director of the National Museum of Modern Art in Kyoto, wrote in a recent catalog of his
first encounter with Nakagawa’s work in 1972. Ogura wrote, “Even though he left his country at an early age for
New York, the center of the international art world, and immersed himself in many of the contemporary art movements, he
has developed an original vision grounded in the spirituality and traditions of Asian and Japanese culture.”

All programs of the Van Every/Smith Galleries are free and the public is welcome. Please call the gallery office for
more information during the week: 704/892-2519, or the gallery desk on weekends: 704/892-2520.
