Most of us know who Davidson’s outstanding athletes are—or do we? While we know about the football team’s record-breaking season, the swim team’s Southern States three-peat, and last year’s trip to the NCAA basketball tournament, how many of us are aware that Davidson is also home to one of the country’s premier equestrians?

Eliza Shuford, a sophomore from Hickory, NC, won the $75,000 Grand Prix of Florida in Tampa—one of the foremost show jumping competitions on the equestrian circuit. Competing against numerous elite riders, five members of the United States Equestrian Team, and past Olympians including the silver medalist from the 1996 games in Atlanta, Shuford claimed the first Grand Prix victory of her career. Shuford was the only competitor of the 63-rider field to navigate the 17, over five-foot-high double, triple, and water jumps without knocking down a single rail.

Shuford’s victory was the biggest of her equestrian career thus far; however, Shuford is no stranger to competing—and winning. Since her first competition at age five, Shuford has amassed hundreds of ribbons and plaques. In 1997 she won a National Championship event at Madison Square Garden in New York, in Washington, DC, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, and Palm Beach, FL, and earlier this year. Just last week, Shuford took fifth place in a Grand Prix event in Tampa—to name only a few of the numerous shows Shuford has either won or placed highly in over the past three years alone.

Blue ribbons, however, are a testament to much more than Shuford’s equestrian talents. As we all know, Davidson is the art of balancing studies, extracurriculars, and social life and, like many of Davidson’s student-athletes, Shuford manages successfully to add a sport to her repertoire. What makes Shuford’s success even more impressive is that she is a part-time competitor in a full-time sport. Unlike her fellow equestrians who practice or show every day, Shuford is only able to compete on the weekends. Throughout high school and her two years at Davidson, Shuford has dedicated the vast majority of her weekends to traveling across the country where she typically competes in two or three shows before returning to school on Sunday night or Monday morning.

What makes it all worth it? The money? Hardly, all of Shuford’s prize money is invested in travel expenses and caring for the horses. Rather, Shuford, like many amateur or student-athletes, dedicates herself to her riding and subjects herself to a grueling schedule out of a genuine love for her sport. And where will Shuford’s dedication take her next? The Olympics? Possibly. However, whether or not the Olympics are in Shuford’s future, she deserves a place among Davidson’s outstanding athletes.

Davidson Waterfront Condo
2 Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms
Fully Furnished
Washer/Dryer, Pool, Tennis
No Pets
Weekly rental still available for graduation weekend.
Call for rate (704) 895-2294

The Duke basketball team has done what no one could have foreseen. Witness the following:

1990 East Regional Final: Down 78-77 to Connecticut with just over a second left, Christian Laettner hits an off-balance runner to deny UConn their first-ever Final Four trip.

1991 Final Four: Duke upends the 34-0 UNLV juggernaut, 79-77, on their way to a championship.

1992 East Regional Final: Grant Hill hits Laettner with a length-of-the-court pass, and Laettner drops in a turn-around at the buzzer to stun Kentucky 104-103 in overtime.

1995 Regular Season: In the midst of their worst season of the decade (13-18), Jeff Capel launches a 40-footer at the buzzer to send the Duke-Carolina game into overtime.

This year, however, it would take something quite unforeseen for the Dookies NOT to return to Durham as the conquering heroes. The March 22 edition of ESPN The Magazine is entitled “Duke or Die.” Many were calling the NCAA Tournament the Duke Invitational. Maybe next year, they shouldn’t invite Connecticut.

The Huskies crashed the party with an unlikely cast of characters. They are led by point guard Khalid El-Amin, a pudgy Webster. Before Monday, Moore was averaging a mere 6.8. It was nights like these that remind us—thankfully—of the unpredictability of sports.Duke for 27 points; Jake Voskuhl, a center reminiscent of a giant Backstreet Boy; and Ricky Moore, a guard who is known almost solely for his defense. In fact, points per game. In the title game, he scored 13 first-half points and lived up to his defensive-stopper moniker. It was his defense that caused Trajan Langdon to travel with 5.4 seconds left. The game itself was an all-time classic. All too often, big games turn out to be one-sided or sloppy. Not this championship game. All told, there were 14 ties and eight lead changes. The game was by all accounts an upset. But what people fail to realize is that Connecticut was ranked number one 10 of the 19 weeks of the season... one more week than Duke. On a historical basis, this upset was nowhere close to such games as the 1974 title game where Notre Dame ended UCLA’s 88-game winning streak, or the 1983 game, in which N.C. State defeated Clyde Drexler and Akeem Olajuwon’s Houston team. What this game turned out to be was an epic battle between two heavyweight fighters, not decided until the final round. As he celebrated the championship, El-Amin screamed, “We Shocked the World!” It fully — that greatness is never easily attained and certainly never guaranteed.

Solid showing at Wake
By KEITH GORDON
Sports Writer

This weekend, the men’s track team competed at Wake Forest. On a hot and humid day, the men defeated UNCA by a score of 66-33, and UNCG 65-22. Though conditions were not ideal, the men ran another strong meet. In the field events, Senior Gray Austin won the discus competition with a throw of 98 feet, 1 3/4 inches. Junior John Moore improved his javelin PR and his overall Davidson placement with a winning throw of 142 feet, 9 inches. Junior Ade Artis won the long jump with a leap of 19 feet, 5 1/2 inches. Artis also made the Davidson top-ten performance list with a triple jump of 44 feet, 5 inches. The men’s 4x100m team, Senior Stan Baker, Austin, Senior Michael Albert, and Moore, also won with a time of 44.3 seconds. In the 400m hurdles, Baker ran a strong 61.7 seconds. In the 100m, Baker led the Cats with an impressive 11.1. He was followed closely by Austin, 11.4, Senior Karim Lawrence, 11.6 (nursing an injured hamstring), and Albert, 12.0. Moore ran a strong 200m in 23.6. Rounding out the sprints, Albert finished the 400m with a 52.0, followed closely by Moore, 53.4. In the 1500m, freshman Jay Jahnes knocked junior Brent Ferrell from the top-ten performer list. Jahnes ran a strong 4:03. Junior Thomas McElveen finished in a season’s best 4:09.9. Right beside him, fellow junior Pat Burchett also finished in a PR, 4:09.9. In the 800m, Senior Davey Bacon improved his PR to a 1:57.5. Sophomore Keith Chapman also ran a 1:57.5. Senior Keith Gordon finished strong with a season’s best 2:02.6. McElveen, just recovering from the 1500, ran a 2:04.4. Senior Jonathan Fly ran a season’s best 2:07.3. Junior David Vaughn finished in 2:11.8, followed by illness and injury plagued freshman, Miles Harmon in 2:18.1. In the 3000m, Freshman Dan Gibson ran a top-ten performance of 8:57.6. Burchett cruised to a 9:16.3. Freshman Paul Irwin, running strong, came through in 9:23.4. Junior Scott “the Berserker” Hutchins finished well in 10:16.2, and in his first race since cross country season, junior Steve “Snake” Johnston accomplished almost all of his pre-race goals with his 10:20.0. The 4x400m team ran well despite a notable lack of competition. The front-running ‘Cats enjoyed the race and cruised to a 3:34.2. Albert ran lead off in 52.9. Freshman Grant Bleecher ran second with a strong 51.9. Baker took the baton third, racing to a 53.5 split and handed off to the fiery McElveen. When questioned after the race, McElveen, inspired by Karim Lawrence, only responded, “got ‘em!”

“This was a good meet for the team,” said head coach Gary Andrew. “We're looking strong going into conference. A couple of the guys are recovering from injuries, but we’re ready to run hard at ETSU.”

Members of the record-setting 1998-1999 Wildcat Football team received commemorative rings at a banquet last week. The ‘Cats finished the season with an 8-2 record.