__THE DAVIDSONIAN__

Professors who received tenure:

Ben Baker  
B.A. (Wofford), M.A. (University of South Carolina)

David N. Blauch  
B.S. (summa cum laude) (Lebanon Valley College),  
Ph.D. (California Institute of Technology, Pasadena)

Shireen E. Carroll  
B.A. (Florida Atlantic University), M.A., Ph.D. (Tulane)

Burkhard J. Henke  
M.A. (University of California, Santa Barbara),  
Ph.D. (University of California, Irvine)

Richard G. A. Prior  
B.A. (University of Leeds, England), A.Mus.D. (University of Nottingham, England)

Shelley Rigger  
A.B. (magna cum laude) (Princeton),  
Ph.D. (Harvard)

Murray S. Simpson  
B.A. (magna cum laude) (Davidson),  
M.S., Ph.D. (University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign)

TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1999

Raymond Sprague  
B.A. (Williams), M.M. (University of New Mexico, Albuquerque),  
D.M.A. (University of Colorado, Boulder)

John Wertheimer  
B.A. (Oberlin), M.A., Ph.D. (Princeton)

Todd G. Will  
B.A. (Carleton), M.S., Ph.D. (University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign)

Promotion to Associate Professor:

David N. Blauch  
Shireen E. Carroll  
Burkhard J. Henke  
Richard G. A. Prior  
Shelley Rigger  
Murray S. Simpson  
John Wertheimer  
Todd G. Will  
(Please note: Ben Baker is already an Associate Professor.)

Admissions:  
A look at the class of 2003

Continued from front page

academic students interested in their majors. Foster Haselden, SGA President, and Cintra Pollack, former Union Board President, have also written letters to accepted students, and the Parents’ Council is sending letters to their parents.

Decision Davidson took place this past weekend. All admitted students and their parents were invited. The scholarship competition, in which 80 admitted students compete for scholarships, occurred on Thursday and Friday. Scholarship interview committees meet with these finalists.

All accepted students have until May 1 to decide to enroll. Their deposit must be postmarked by that date. By mid-May, the Admissions staff will know who will arrive in August as the Davidson College Class of 2003.

Introducing the edge you need for college.

To pay for all the essentials traditional financial aid won't cover, get the AcademicEdge™ Loan.

Low interest rates. Easy to apply. Make no payments in school. Flexible repayment after you graduate.

AcademicEdge™  
THE TOTAL EDUCATION LOAN

Call toll-free 1-877-310-3456 for more information. http://AcademicEdge.ChelaFinancial.com

©1999 Chela Financial

Dinner & A Movie  
Friday Night

Leave Campus at 6:30 for a Dinner at the Lake Campus  
Then Travel to Charlotte

At The Omnimax Theatre

*Transportation Provided. Offer only open to 30 students  
Sign Up at The Union

April 23