THE DAVIDSONIAN

The St

By Juvia Philport
Health Advisor

As the year jumps off to a fast and furious start, that familiar air of anxiety begins to show its
face. How many of us have felt an undefined sadness that starts like a seed behind the belly button and
spreads throughout the entire body? If you haven't, then please send in the antidote; otherwise, you are not alone. Depression
can be one of the most common illnesses on a stressful campus like Davidson’s, yet it is also one of
the trickier ones to cure. Therefore, I would like for us as a campus to nip this sickness in the
bud while we still have a new year and a fresh start. To help, I have compiled four thoughts on
how to decrease anxiety and increase joy.

1. Look at the world with the responsibility and experience of an adult as well as the wonder and innocence
of a child.

Remember when you were little how the world cradled you instead of swallowing you up? The colors were more brilliant
and the emotions were more raw. As we get older, we replace that perspective with mature worries when we should
be holding onto it for dear life. As humans, our childhood wonder and need for care is ever-present — it
simply gets repressed as time goes by. Little kids don’t ignore their instincts and neither should adults. Don’t try to
take care of everything by yourself when there are loving people who want to help you through hard times. On
that note, it wouldn't be a good idea for a five-year-old to drown sorrows with twenty beers, so it is
not a good idea for students either. Try drowning your sorrows with a huge water gun fight. It is much
more exhilarating and better for you.

2. Turn dissatisfaction into positive dissatisfaction.

We are all so lucky to be here at Davidson; therefore we need to take our frustrations with a grain
of salt. Yes, there will be times where we are not happy with the way the day treats us, but
it is important to keep negativity in perspective. As trite as it may sound, most people do not have the
opportunity to be where we are. Think of disappointment as the jumping-off point for improvement rather than the depths of
despair.

3. Take off the mask and feed your soul.

Sometimes at a school like Davidson it is easy to lose oneself. At first glance, you see a school of
high achievers with a great need to relax and cut loose. While going out partying can be a good way
to do this, don’t feel it is your only option. Everyone needs a close group of friends to help cut
down on that lonely feeling which sometimes catches us all. Sometimes the concerns that go with partying can cause more
stress when the weekend should bring relaxation. Have a nice talk over dinner once in a while; balance is a
good thing.

My fourth and final thought is actually stolen from the marvelous book “Don’t Sweat the Small Stuff...and it’s all small
stuff” by Richard Carlson, Ph.D:

4. Remind yourself that when you die your “In Basket” won’t be empty.

Carlson says: “Regardless of who you are or what you do, remember that nothing is more important than your own
sense of happiness and inner peace and that of your loved ones. If you're obsessed with getting everything done, you'll
never have a sense of well-being! Very little in our work lives truly falls into the emergency category. If you
stay focused on your work, it will all get done in due time.”

So with that in mind, I hope everyone has a great second week of school. Continuously remind yourself to laugh
more joyously, for the best kinds of days are those filled with a love for life.

---

BEN & JERRY'S

VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for birthday or graduation celebrations,
study breaks, exam time, or just for fun!

902 S. Main St. Davidson 892-0604

---

Crossword

An Exercise in Redundancy

By Trey Davis

Across
1. High school tests
5. Big party
9. Medicine
13. Actress Garr
14. Singer Fitzgerald
15. Revolving part
17. Soprano solo
18. Castle guard
19. Greek letter
20. Singer Freddy’s nickname
22. Cheerleader prop
23. Klutz
24. Any Tom, Dick, or Harry
25. French dessert
29. Opening tennis score
33. More crystallized
34. Keyed in
35. Fire
36. Slugger Snider
37. March sign
38. Kick away
39. Hymn closings
40. Bathroom floor guy
41. New York prison
42. African fly
44. Apprentice (abbr.)
45. Music without music?
46. Male reproductive organ
47. North African grain dish
50. Despise
55. DJ Freed
56. Adept
57. Film critic Roger
58. Fail
59. White or red
60. Attitude
61. Tennis breakdowns
62. Cardinal Musial
63. “Telephone Line” band (abbr.)

Down
1. Puncture
2. Smith or space prefix
3. Threesome
4. Ancient Thailand
5. Grieve
6. Detached
7. Door noise
8. Crown coverer
9. Slobbered
10. TX school
11. Disco
12. Computer info
16. Rude person
21. Concretes
22. Sulks
24. Waits for
25. Lenses
26. Camera company
27. Worker insect
28. Deceiving
29. Dark side
30. Weather adornments for a barn
31. In between Madrid & Barcelona
32. Senator Lott
34. Out of place
37. Apple or American
38. Declares forcefully
40. Kitchen measurements (abbr.)
41. Florida residents
43. Provokes
44. Barbecue
46. Taekwondo
47. Recedes
48. NY stadium
49. Classic board game
50. Crow calls
51. Newspaper item
52. Arm bone
53. Observed
54. Stomach muscles
