_ SPORTS _ THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16

“He’s good at what he does. He’s got a special relationship with our players. He’s both a friend and a professional. Our players spend a lot of time in the training room whether they’re injured or not.”
- Assistant coach Matt Matheny, Davidson men’s basketball

On Tuesday, January 19th, Davidsonian Sports Staff member Stephen Cefalu chatted with Davidson Wildcats head athletic trainer Scott Applegate about the special challenges and joys of his occupation.

DSS: Can you describe a little bit about your professional background?

Applegate: Well, I first developed an interest in athletic training and physical therapy when I was in high school. I pursued undergraduate studies at East Carolina, then served as a graduate assistant at Miami University of Ohio. My graduate work provided a lot of practical hands-on experience; we put in close to 2400 hours. I spent three years working at Fairfield University, then moved on to Lafayette. It was there that I first gained exposure to Davidson through athletic competition. One year later a position opened up down here; I applied for it and got it. My wife is originally from North Carolina, so it was always a hope of ours to get back down here.

DSS: How are things different now from when you first arrived here ten years ago?

Applegate: When I first started we were still over in Johnston Gym. The opening of Baker (Sports Complex) obviously made a huge difference. The facilities here are outstanding. Also, the number of participants we see has increased dramatically, which is a reflection of the expanded number of programs. Even with all our staff members working around the clock, it’s difficult to cover everything, especially with teams practicing year-round.

DSS: If you were to construct a pie chart detailing your time allotment per job duty, how would it break down?

Applegate: I would say that the majority of my time is spent working directly with the athletes. The rest is reserved for administrative obligations. Of late, we’ve been receiving a lot more requests from coaches trying out different (strength and conditioning) programs. We try our best to accommodate everyone. Our schedules are constantly in flux. We designate people to travel with the teams and try to make as many road trips as possible.

DSS: How do integrity and confidence...

Wrestlers split recent

By David Moncure
Sports Writer

Two incredible home victories coupled with a few tough road losses brought the 1998-1999 Wildcat wrestling season to an end. The wrestlers made a great showing at the Washington & Lee tournament on January 23, finishing in second place only half a point behind Washington & Jefferson.

After suffering four straight losses, the ‘Cats needed a lift as they headed into the Washington & Lee tournament. The team got that emotional lift from juniors Miles Cox, at 125, and Ian Kaplan, at 157, who both ended the tournament as champions of their weight classes. Cox pinned one opponent and then won two hard-fought matches by points, defeating a Scranton wrestler 8-6 and a Longwood wrestler 6-5. Kaplan’s three matches were all won on pins, improving his overall season record to 13-2. Anthony Albert finished second at the 149 weight class and Dan Carman finished third at the 133 weight class. Four wrestlers placed fourth in their respective weight classes, aiding in the ‘Cats great showing at the tournament. Among them were Harley Friedman at 141, Alan Roe at 165, Justin Perkinson at 174, and Charles Waldron in the heavyweight bracket.

Next up for Davidson was Norfolk State at home on January 30. The emotion from the great performance at the Washington & Lee tournament and the fact that the wrestlers were on their home turf were two strong factors in the 35-15 victory. Cox, Harley Friedman, Kaplan, Nick Grainger, and Andrew Friedman all won their matches by forfeit. Albert added a decisive points victory to cap off an incredibly successful day.

On January 31 the wrestlers made their way up to Greensboro to face Coppin State and conference rival UNC Greensboro. The Wildcats lost 36-6 to UNCG and 33-9 versus Coppin State. Carman and Kaplan provided the only victories for the team against UNCG, as the Davidson wrestlers seemed outmatched against this conference opponent. Kaplan won his match against Coppin State, but this time the only other victory was Harley Friedman by forfeit. Carman, Perkinson, and Albert all lost close matches in this bout.

The wrestlers were back on home turf the following weekend to face off against Gardner Webb on February 6. The Davidson wrestlers took advantage of being on their home floor as they handed Gardner Webb a 27-15...defeat. Kaplan led the charge again as he pinned his opponent in a mere 1:14. Albert, Roe, and Cox all won thrilling matches by points, and Charles Waldron added a forfeit victory to top off the day for the victorious Wildcats.

In Focus with Head Trainer Scott Applegate

DSS: How does confidentiality apply to your work?

Applegate: With regard to professional integrity, we follow the guidelines set down by the National Athletic Trainers Association. Confidentiality is something we take very seriously. It’s really pretty cut and dry. Coaches are on a need-to-know basis. We don’t get many inquiries from the press, but when we do, the release of information requires first verbal consent from the athlete. That’s a simple rule I picked up from the Charlotte Hornets team physician, Dr. Perry.

DSS: What’s the most painful or severe injury you’ve come across in your professional career?

Applegate: Emeka Erege’s leg injury last year would have to be up there. I can’t express how much satisfaction I get from seeing him, and others like him, return to high-level competition and achieve success.

DSS: Is there any one team you feel a special affinity for?

Applegate: I think you inevitably develop a certain affinity for a team you spent a lot of time with. For me, the 1992 men’s soccer team (national semi-finalists) and some of the baseball teams I traveled with early on stand out.

Field trips contests

The ‘Cats hoped to continue their winning ways this past weekend in Chattanooga against Chattanooga and The Citadel, but Chattanooga blanked the Wildcats 49-0 in the first of two matches. The team wrestled without Kaplan as he was sidelined with the flu. The Citadel then handed Davidson a 44-7 defeat. The highlights of that match were Albert’s 8-1 victory and Cox’s 10-4 victory. The final match of the season before the Southern Conference Tournament in Greensboro is this coming Saturday, February 20, at Campbell.

Sailing season starts Saturday

By Will Beasley, DSS Contributor

After a dormant fall, the sailing team resumes competition this Saturday by hosting the season’s first regatta at the lake campus. The event is North Points 1. The top four schools in the three North Points Regattas advance to SAISA (South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association) Championships held in Tampa, Florida on April 10-11. The 1999 racing team consists of four veterans (Derek Kverno ’00, Will Beasley ’00, Kate Schill ’01, and Mike Osgood ’01) and four newcomers (Paul Gravel ’01, Dax Allred ’01, Cheryl Greene ’02, and Juliana Wiegand ’02). The remaining North Points regattas are at UNCW (Feb 27) and at College of Charleston (March 13).

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN PLATTEVILLE Study Abroad Programs

Learn Your Way Around The World

* Study abroad in England, Mexico, Japan, or Spain
* Courses in liberal arts and international business
* Fluency in a foreign language not required
* Home-stays or dorms with meals
* Financial aid applies (except for summer session)
* Field trips per semester (for Wisconsin residents/non-residents)

Program Costs:
* In London, England: $4,975/$5,275
* In Puebla, Mexico: $5,275/$5,575
* In Nagasaki, Japan: $5,375/$5,675
* In Seville, Spain: $6,475/$6,775

Application deadlines:
* April 1 for summer session
* April 30 for fall semester
* October 15 for spring semester

For further information contact:
Toll free: 1-800-342-1725
E-mail: StudyAbroad@uwplatt.edu
Web: http://www.uwplatt.edu/~studyabroad

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION

Mardi Gras Masquerade Campus Wide Formal

Dance under the trees at Richardson Plaza to swing music and DJ

Tickets on sale in ticket office
1 for $10, 2 for $15

Parade of Celtic Arts

Sonus: Come watch this gifted Irish stepdance group perform a uniquely contemporary and Canadian folk music. This show is almost sold out, so buy your tickets at the ticket office today!

Wednesday Feb. 17
Alumni Speaker: Steve Bagerly
"Striking Back at the Empire"
4pm Morrison Room

Thursday Feb. 18
Jumpin Java
9:30pm Home Room, free!

Friday Feb. 19
Coffee House
9:30pm Richardson Plaza

Saturday Feb. 20
Service Project
9:45am-Noon Ada Jenkins Center
Campus Wide Formal
8pm-12:30pm 900 Room

Sunday Feb. 21
Multicultural Kids Day
8:30am-11:15am
Community Dinner and Cultural Show
5pm Ada Jenkins Center

Monday Feb. 22
Movie: Smoke Signals
9:30pm Home Room, free!

Tuesday Feb. 23
Workshop
12:10pm-12:15pm Outpost
Kayak Rolling
7-9pm Baker Pool

Wednesday Feb. 24
Jumpin Java
9:30pm Home Room, free!

Thursday Feb. 25
Town History Forum
8pm 900 Room

Friday Feb. 26
Artists Series: Leahy
8:15pm Love Auditorium

Saturday Feb. 27
Climbing Wall
1pm Outpost
21 Year Old Night
8pm-12:30pm Johnston Gym