Millennium Survey results compiled from THE Campus Forums COMMITTEE

In celebration of the Union Board’s Millennium Week (October 20-27), the Campus Forums Committee conducted a brief survey to ascertain the impact of the impending turn of the millennium on Davidson students. Here is what we found out:

- 72% of those surveyed knew that the first year of the third millennium is 2001, not 2000. (Common Era numbering starts at year 1, not year 0, so 2000 is actually the last year of the second millennium.) However, 10% proposed numbers like 1997 and 2032, supported by extensive calculations of the birth year of Jesus in the margins.
- On October 12, 1999, Kofi Annan, Secretary General of the United Nations, declared that the world population had reached six billion people. By October 25, the day of the Millennium survey, 48% of Davidson students still hadn’t heard the news. In an even more frightening tally, 57% did not know that Davidson College is fewer than twenty miles from the nearest nuclear power plant. Lake Norman was built specifically to feed Duke Power's McGuire nuclear power facility, and Davidson-Concord road is one leg of the official evacuation route in case of nuclear disaster.
- Only 34% of those surveyed had taken any precautions to ensure that their computers and/or other electronic equipment were Y2K compatible, and an even scantier 11% claimed that their travel plans for December and January had been influenced by technology fears. Most of those who answered affirmatively are avoiding air travel on New Year’s Day.
- 16% of survey participants have family members who are stockpiling food, water, or other survival essentials as a Y2K precaution.
- Most people surveyed planned to be with family and friends at the stroke of midnight on January 1, 2000, but two destinations came up more than once: the James Taylor concert in Raleigh and the Phish concert in Florida.
- 17% said that their religious beliefs influence, either positively or negatively, their perceptions of millennial dangers.

And, finally, some commentary:
- A Southern Baptist from Nashville says, “I think the hype isn’t legit. The Bible says, ‘nobody knows the day or time’ that rapture/Armageddon/the return will happen, and God is way too creative to have it at the end of the millennium!”
- A Floridian says, “2000 is just a number. We like to think it’s significant just because it has a lot of zeroes in it.”
- A woman from Richmond ruminates, “Sometimes I wonder if some kind of apocalypse will happen but I doubt it.”
- “I think the current paranoia is crap — that’s not what Christ is about,” says a New Orleans Presbyterian.
- A sage from Pennsylvania writes, “I’m just getting older, that’s all.”

Thanks to everyone who completed a survey. Hope you had a happy Millennium Week! If you would like to join the Campus Forums Committee please e-mail Cameron Richardson (carichardson).

CLASSIFIEDS

EMPLOYMENT
- Rosetti’s Italian Restaurant & Pizza is due to open its catering facility as well as expanding its staff. Hiring professional servers, bartenders, & host staff. Flexible hours, FT/PT, will train person with the right attitude. Competitive salary, excellent tips. Please apply in person at 19905 West Catawba Ave., Cornelius, near I-77: Exit 28.

T-shirts in Chambers memorialize victims of violence
- Story continued from front page
killed by men who said they loved them. Similar to the Vietnam memorial, the Clothesline Project commemorates the violent deaths of the women in their own, private war. The project revolves around laundry, traditionally women’s work, and allows women and their loved ones to speak out aboutviolent crimes. The Davidson project is jointly sponsored by the Rape Awareness Committee, Women’s Issues Committee, the Student Health Center, and the Gender Resource Center. Ann Culp ’00, president of the Women’s Issues Committee, feels the project is exciting because “it is not only about words, but also about being in a space in which women have poured out their experience.” Although the organizers originally envisioned the project outside, the lobby has become a space of remembrance. Chambers Lobby certainly has a distinctly different atmosphere without the posters and flyers. Justifiably, it is a disturbing place, but Culp believes “it is alive.” The Clothesline Project is unique because it not only raises awareness about rape and domestic violence, but also about incest and homophobic-motivated assault. We hear about this violence often on the news and it is hoped that the project will re-sensitize us to violence of all sorts. Culp’s only regret about the project is that it leaves out the men who are also victims of violence and assault. Though the project specifically targets violence against women, she encourages men who have been moved by this project to become involved with the Gender Resource Center, a place for everyone, men and women. Culp wishes to thank the Davidson community for its reception of the project. Deya Murray ’00, president of the Rape Awareness Committee, also played a huge role in organizing the exhibit. The Clothesline Project is a visual memorial. When you walk into Chambers Lobby, don’t ignore the shirts and their message. Stop and read them. Some of the shirts were prepared by Davidson students. Violence happens here as elsewhere, and we can’t be silent about it any longer. There will be a worship service affiliated with the Clothesline Project on Tuesday, November 16 at 7 p.m. in Lingle Chapel. Everyone is invited to attend.

RESIDENCE LIFE STAFF APPLICATIONS FOR 2000-2001

Now available for those students who are going abroad in the spring semester.

Applications: available in the Residence Life Office beginning November 8, due by November 22.

Information Session: Monday, November 15, 5:00 PM in the Morrison Room. All interested students are encouraged to attend. Please contact Dee Kauffman, Associate Director of Residence Life, at x2188 with questions.

SPRING BREAK 2000

Free Trips, Free Drinks, Free Meals
Jamaica, Cancun, Florida, Barbados, Bahamas

Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips
Book by December 17th for Lowest Rates
1-800-426-7710
www.sunsplashtours.com

Your image is everything. How much it costs can be our little secret.

Turnberry Place-Cornelius (Next to Sushi at the Lake)
W. Catawba Ave

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY $6.99
OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99
Not valid with other offers
Limit one coupon per visit
Great Clips for hair

You buy a $10 Prepaid Wireless Card.
You get $20 worth of wireless calls.
(It’s not like you need to take Critical Perspectives in Economic Theory to figure that one out.)

FREE AIRTIME WITH NEW ACTIVATION*

Our Prepaid Wireless service is a great way to get wireless when you need it at a price you can afford. Simply purchase our Prepaid Wireless Cards. You can use your own phone, or buy our prepaid package and get a phone. When you need more time, just purchase additional minutes. It’s truly wireless when you want it.

www.alltel.com

Charlotte: Highland Park Commerce Court, 734 Tyvola Road
One Independence Center, 101 N. Tryon Street, Suite 100
7128 E. Independence Blvd.
The Arboretum, 8206-1400 Providence Road
Pineville: 9105 Pineville-Matthews Road
Concord: 349 Copperfield Blvd., Suite O

ALLTEL
The power to simplify