By Bro Kritt, Sports Writer

First place in the Northern Division was at stake last Monday night when VMI rolled into Belk Arena to spar with Davidson’s Wildcats. It certainly showed. In a game characterized by bumps and bruises, the stronger, more physical Wildcats pounded their way to a 76-66 victory.

The 2,249 fans saw three players foul out and VMI’s Aaron Demory ejected for a flagrant foul late in the second half, after the Keydet tossed Wildcat Davor Halbauer across the floor with a swift forearm. “Davidson is the most physical team in the league,” VMI coach Bob Bellairs said as he answered questions regarding Demory’s ejection.

The game’s wild and physical style fit Landry Kosmalski’s style to a tee. “L Train,” as the junior forward has been dubbed by Wildcat broadcaster Frank Santore, led the way for the Wildcats as he recorded his fifth double-double of the year with 22 points and 11 rebounds.

Making the most of his new-found role as a starter this season, Emeka Erege helped hold VMI star Jason Bell to under 50% from the floor last Monday.

Davidson students were in for a treat as Kosmalski entertained the crowd with some soaring dunks. But the Wildcat coaching staff was in for a treat of their own, specifically with the free-throw shooting of the 6’7” forward. Kosmalski hit all nine of his free throw attempts on the night, after entering the game with a frustrating 45% rate from the charity stripe. “For him to go 9-9 is a tremendous statement to his hard work before and after practice,” coach Bob McKillop said.

VMI’s nickname, the Running ‘Roos, definitely characterized VMI’s game plan—their full-court pressure created an almost-frantic pace for the game. VMI’s defensive intensity forced 22 Wildcat turnovers, but the ‘Cats forced 19 of their own as VMI showed sloppy ball control throughout the game. “We tried too hard to create on our own,” coach Bellairs admitted.

Early on, Davidson responded well to VMI’s pell-mell style, converting many easy lay-ins out of their transition offense while only committing 6 first-half turnovers. “It was a very relentless and passionate defensive effort by VMI,” praised coach McKillop. “They force you to go back on your heels or attack, and I am pleased with how we attacked.”

A shallow bench seemed to hurt the Wildcats in the second half as fatigue led to numerous faulty passes, enabling VMI to stay in the game. “The turnovers maybe are a response to the minutes played in the second half,” McKillop said.

But the Keydets could not handle Davidson’s inside presence despite the fact that the Wildcats lacked the services of sixth man Ben Ebong, who remains sidelined due to a back injury. Senior Chadd Holmes stepped in and filled Ebong’s absence, tying his career high with 18 points in only 21 minutes of play. “The four and five positions are giving us pretty darn good production,” commended McKillop.The Wildcats also pulled down 12 more rebounds than VMI, including a new career high from Anna Judy (9) and shooting guard Davor Halbauer. VMI’s Jason Bell, the Southern Conference’s leading scorer (19.5 ppg), led the Keydets with 22 points. Although he bettered his season average, Bell was held under his overall shooting percentage (50 percent) due to aggressive defense from Emeka Erege and Halbauer. “Jason Bell is a tremendous player. Emeka and Davor did an outstanding job,” said McKillop.

Men’s Tennis

Men’s tennis back on the court
By Brad STEVINSON
Sports Writer

In the weeks leading up to the opener of the men’s tennis season, Coach Jeff Frank focused his team’s efforts on singles competition, often foregoing doubles practice time. With this in mind, he had high hopes that Davidson would match up well individually with their first opponent of the season: UNC-Chapel Hill. As such, the results of the meet could not have been more unexpected. North Carolina’s Tar Heels, ranked forty-seventh nationally, swept all six of the singles matches while the Wildcats prevailed in the doubles.

“Our doubles were very good, very consistent,” Coach Frank said. “We just knew what we were doing out there, but our singles’ strategy left a lot to be desired.”

In college tennis, a maximum of seven points can be earned in each dual match. A school gains a point with each of the six singles matches that it wins and must clinch at least two of the three doubles matches to earn another point. Davidson, suffering losses at all six singles positions but winning two of the three doubles matches, lost to the Tar Heels 6-1.

On the positive side, the Wildcats’ doubles teams played very well, with the #1 team of seniors Scott Briggs and Judson Sutherland and the #3 team of senior Paul Wulfsberg and junior Brett Ialacci garnering decisive victories. The #2 tandem of senior Tyler Epp and junior Alex Okulski was the only Davidson duo to lose to North Carolina. Coach Frank was pleased with the performance, especially considering that three of his six doubles players from last season graduated last May.

“The doubles played very well, and it looks as if we'll keep some of these teams together for the next couple of matches,” he said.

The singles, however, were swept in straight sets by the Tar Heels. Frank cited a lack of concentration and an abundance of unforced errors as the primary factors in Davidson’s losses. As the 1999 season gets underway, Frank believes there is no reason this squad cannot match or even improve upon last year’s second-place finish in the Southern Conference tournament. Although the team is weakened by the graduation of last year’s #1 and #3 singles players, the tremendous depth that characterizes the 1999 team may be more than able to compensate for these losses.

“We have nine players who could play in the top six spots,” Frank said. Such depth gives him the flexibility to mix and match doubles teams and shake up the singles line-up for the best possible combination. The ’Cats’ next match is at home on Saturday against two teams, Queens College and Belmont Abbey. Playing multiple opponents on the same day will allow the Wildcats to evaluate their current line-up and adjust it accordingly before they move on to the bigger guns in their schedule, namely East Carolina (a home match on February 23) and South Carolina (on February 26).

A key for the Wildcats will be keeping everyone healthy. Already they have lost sophomore Billy Boykin to injury along with freshman David Webb, but Webb expects to join fellow freshman Chad Winebarger in the line-up within weeks. Coach Frank's strategy for the season: “Fight like hell in the doubles to get into the singles in good shape.” If the Wildcats can accomplish this and stay consistent in their singles play, they may once again be rolling through the Southern Conference come tournament time in April.