-R x

Women’s tennis edged out in Southern Conference tourney

By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

The women’s tennis team entered the 1999 Southern Conference Tournament with hopes of winning the tournament and earning the conference’s first-ever automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. Their title run ended, however, in the tournament’s first round when the fifth-seeded ’Cats fell to the fourth-seeded College of Charleston in a down-to-the-wire match.

“We knew it was going to be a war,” said head coach Caroline Price. “We felt like we got the draw we wanted and we just needed the breaks to go our way. Then we had a shot at the semifinals and finals.”

According to Price, the goal of the match was to win three of the six singles matches. In an unanticipated turn of events, it was the ’Cats two freshmen, #4 Forbes Thompson and #5 Elizabeth Moreno, who earned Davidson’s lone singles wins. “The freshmen really kept us alive,” said Price.

Senior Amber Bradford came very close to victory when she went up 3-0 in the third set of her #2 singles match, but she couldn’t hold on as sophomore Liorah Levin of College of Charleston came back to claim the win. “Amber is so mentally tough,” Price said. “She went up in the third set but couldn’t quite hold the lead.” Also, #3 seed senior Claire Cheatwood and #1 seed senior Dana Casner fell in their singles matches.

The ’Cats headed into the doubles down four matches to two, but soon tied the match at 4-4 when the #3 doubles team of Thompson and Moreno won their match.

---

Commentary

THE GREAT ONE

By Mark HYMERLING
Guest Writer

On Saturday afternoon, the hockey world received the news it had been dreading since 1979. At a press conference at Madison Square Garden, Wayne Gretzky officially announced his retirement from the game he had dominated since he was three years old. He has completed a career that has been unmatched by that of any other athlete in any other sport. Imagine, if you will, Hank Aaron, Mark McGwire, Joe DiMaggio, and Michael Jordan rolled into one.

Gretzky has amassed sixty-one NHL scoring records. He equals Michael Jordan’s ten scoring titles, is the all-time career leader in goals scored, assists, and total points, and holds the single-season record for goals, assists, and total points. He also holds the longest consecutive points scoring streak at fifty-one games. Until 1981, the mark of excellence for NHL goal-scorers was to score fifty goals in his team’s first fifty games; that season, Gretzky scored five goals in his thirty-ninth game to shatter the mystique of fifty goals in fifty games.

In 1981-82, Gretzky shattered the single-season goals scored record by netting ninety-two goals; the previous record, once thought untouchable, was Phil Esposito’s seventy-six. He holds the single-season points scored record with 215 total points in the 1985-86 season. To put this feat into perspective, he also has the second through fourth highest single-season point totals as well. No other player has amassed more than two hundred points in one season. In 1985-86, Gretzky recorded 163 assists in an eighty-game schedule. His career assist total (1962) exceeds the number of total points collected by the man in second place for career scoring.

This season he recorded professional career goal number 1072, breaking Gordie Howe’s record of 1071 goals, including time spent in the World Hockey Association. He has won twenty-three NHL post-season awards, including ten Art Ross Trophies for leading the league in scoring, nine (including eight in a row) Hart Memorial Trophies as League MVP, and four Lady Byng Trophies for being voted the most gentlemanly player in the League. He also won four Stanley Cups and two Conn Smythe Trophies as MVP of the NHL playoffs.

In the eyes of many front office people in the NHL, Gretzky’s presence in Los Angeles following the trade that sent him to the Kings on August 9, 1988, enabled the league to bring expansion teams to Anaheim, San Jose, and other warm-weather cities. He is also thought of as the greatest ambassador to the game, whose personality and charisma brought newer fans to the rink. To illustrate the respect that he has earned, NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman announced before Gretzky’s final game that his number, 99, would be retired by the league.

He played in countless international tournaments representing Canada. He is credited with jump-starting the career of Mario Lemieux by challenging him to apply himself to hockey in the 1987 Canada Cup. This challenge enabled Lemieux to enjoy a career that led him to be considered by many as one of the greatest players in the history of the sport.many to be the second-best player of all time. With his retirement, Gretzky ended the most storied career in the history of the National Hockey League. Because of the shift to a more defensively oriented system, many of Gretzky’s records are considered unbreakable. His records collected while playing for the Edmonton Oilers, Los Angeles Kings, St. Louis Blues, and the New York Rangers support the claim that he is indeed the Great One.

WOMEN’S TENNIS
by Bro Krift

The senior star won her final doubles match in this weekend’s SoCon Tournament. Casner was also named to the SoCon All-Conference Team.

MEN’S TENNIS
by Brad Stevinson

Senior Kirstyn Leuner and the #1 team of Bradford and Casner won their matches. The match came down to #2 doubles, in which the ’Cats fielded the tandem of Cheatwood and Moreno. The senior-freshman duo battled the Cougars for 13 competitive games, but ultimately fell 8-5 in the pro set.

“It was a tough loss knowing you came that close to making an unbelievable run at the finals to go to the NCAA’s,” Price said. “I’m happy with the solid season but when you’re so close you look back to see if you could have done something different.”

Looking to the future, Davidson will lose five starting seniors in Bradford, Cheatwood, Marks, Leuner, and the recently named all-conference standout Casner. However, with the presence of rising sophomores Thompson and Moreno and at least three promising incoming freshmen, Price is excited about next season.

After defeating the ’Cats, the Cougars went on to upset top-seeded UNC Greensboro 5-4 before losing 5-1 to second-seeded and pre-season #1 Furman. By virtue of their tournament victory, the Lady Paladins will earn the Southern Conference’s first-ever automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. This is the first year the NCAA has changed the women’s tournament to the same 64-team regional format used in men’s and women’s basketball. In past years, only the top sixteen schools with the most difficult schedules were invited to the national tournament. Furman will learn their opponent and regional location on May 1st.

Women’s Track: Conference bound
By Smyth Bitter
Staff Writer

In final preparation for the upcoming Southern Conference Outdoor Track Championships this weekend, the women’s track team traveled to the Appalachian State Invitational on Saturday. Competition included ASU, UNC-Pembroke, UNC-Greensboro, VMI, the University of North Florida, and Francis Marion. Despite windy conditions, the meet’s outcome revealed impressive showings from both runners and throwers.

Kicking off the day’s events with the 1500-meter was the senior threesome of Beth Brewster (5:53), Katie Lannon (5:34), and Ellen Runnels (5:51). Brewster and Lannon showed impressive races considering that both were battling illness. Entered in both the 400-meter hurdles and the 100-meter hurdles, senior sensation Jamilah Sawyer was clocked at her best times of the year in both events. Her times of 1:07.23 and 14.77, respectively, earned Sawyer a first-place finish in the two races. Freshman Wendy Legerton accompanied Sawyer in the 400-meter hurdles with a solid time of 1:13.91. Freshman Takiyah Smith sprinted a strong 100-meters to cross the finish line in a time of 14.09.

Sophomore Smyth Bitter kicked in a 58.47 400-meter to break the Davidson school record. Later that day, Bitter also finished in the 200-meter with a time of 26.74. The 800-meter run was raced by six Wildcat studs. Sophomore Clare Frey and freshman Lucy Billingsley placed an impressive 4th and 5th place overall with their times of 2:23.1 and 2:24.7, respectively. Displaying incredible determination against the forceful wind, freshmen Rhiannon Ollis and Hannah Grimes crossed the finish line at 2:32.3 and 2:35.1, respectively. Grimes earned her personal best time. Also showing solid races in the 800-meters were freshman Julia Kudravetz (2:37.5) and senior Tab Combs (2:50.0).

Davidson’s two throwers also competed on Saturday. Junior Yolanda Kirby had a strong throw of 51’10” in the discus. Kirby also competed in the javelin where she placed an impressive third overall with a throw of 89’7”. Joining Kirby in this event was junior Kristy Noesges with a 76’5” throw to earn her a fourth-place finish. Noesges, throwing solid 24’4”, also took part in the shot put event.

“This was a great tune-up meet for us,” said Coach Thomas Cason, “We are now ready to focus all of our energy towards the Southern Conference Championships this weekend at ETSU.”

Men’s and women’s track travel to Johnson City, Tennessee this weekend for the Southern Conference Championships and a trip to Fazoli’s.