THE DAVIDSONIAN

In Focus with:
On January 15th, Davidsonian Sports Staff member Stephen Cefalu sat down with John Filar, head coach of the Davidson Wildcats women’s basketball team, to discuss the past, present, and future of the program he resurrected five years ago.

DSS: When did you first become involved in coaching?
Filar: When I left college, I had a job in business, but always had this itching to get into coaching. So I started coaching at the local YMCA on a volunteer basis. The more I did that, the more I realized I was enjoying it 300% more than what I was doing in business. It all kinda evolved from there. I went from volunteer coaching at the “Y” to working full-time there. But the more I moved up in the “Y”, the more I was pulled away from the kids and the coaching. So next, I became assistant athletic director at Kentucky Country Day. I stayed there nine years, became athletic director, then moved on to Charlotte Latin, and from Charlotte Latin came here. I was always rather fortunate to be in the right place at the right time. What’s funny is that we'd have kids from Kentucky Country Day go to Davidson, then come back and say, “Coach, they don’t have a women’s basketball program there. You need to go down there and start one.” I’d joke with people that my plan was to go to Charlotte Latin, win a couple of state championships, and then by that time Davidson would be ready to start a program, and I’d go there. When the wheels started turning, it was really spooky.

DSS: How did you first get interested in coaching women’s basketball?
Filar: When I was coaching at the “Y” it was always guys. The reason I got into coaching girls was that when I went to Kentucky Country Day that was the opening. After I was there 5 or 6 years, they asked me to take over the boys' program, but I told them I had no interest. (Coaching the girls) was really special and gratifying. I had no desire to coach guys.

DSS: What would you say most differentiates women’s basketball from men’s basketball?
Filar: A lot of men believe they already know all there is to know about the game, whereas women are much more open to coaching, much more reachable. They want to learn as much as possible. Actually, though, as a coach you don’t look at it as coaching males or females; you’re coaching athletes. That’s how we talk to them about hard work and commitment. We say, “Off the court, you’re ladies; on the court, you’re athletes.” The young ladies really appreciate your coaching. They respect the fact that you’re interested in them not only as athletes but as people. It means a lot to them that you want to know how their life is going off the court. They’re a lot more emotional than men, in a positive way. They get excited about a lot of things that a lot of male athletes maybe take for granted.

DSS: What would you say is the biggest difference between coaching women’s basketball at the high school versus collegiate level?
Filar: I think that at the high school level, you maybe have a little more chance to shape the youngsters that you’re dealing with. The young ladies whom we’re working with in college already pretty much have a bunch of ideas formed in their head and aren’t seeking as much for you to tell them how to go about their business.

DSS: How would you describe the jump from Charlotte Latin to Davidson?
Filar: It was a difficult transition for me at first in that we were building a program from the ground up. I had to deal with 3 or 4 years here of struggling from a success standpoint. What bolstered us in the early going was absolute faith that we were building a really strong foundation for something down the road. At the high school level, you’re involved in a lot of other things (besides coaching) that you can get your self-worth out of, like being athletic director, a teacher, a counselor. At the collegiate level, job duties are more narrowly focused. As coaches, we have to be really careful that we don’t tie too much of our self-worth up into wins and losses, even though it seems that’s how we're evaluated. I’ve changed over time here. In the early going, I was putting way too much stress on myself. I thought it was all my fault if we lost. I think the most important lesson I learned early on was that you can’t get too high after wins or too low after losses. You have to stay steady. The last couple of years I haven’t even paid that much attention to our records, and the girls understand that.

DSS: How many of the off-the-court administrative duties, such as recruiting, do you take upon your own shoulders?
Filar: In the past, I tried to coordinate all the recruiting myself. But, the more competitive we’ve become on the court, the more I’ve tried to delegate off-the-court administrative duties.

‘Cats claim supremacy
By Bro Kitt
Staff Writer

It’s not whether you win or lose, but rather how you play the game that matters. That bit of wit and wisdom, however, was unlikely to serve as much consolation to the men’s basketball team after two disappointing losses on the road in early January. After the mind-numbing losses, the Wildcats returned home and burned down Belk Arena with white-hot shooting to send a message to Western Carolina and the rest of the Southern Conference: “We're still the team to beat.” Davidson’s play throughout the 96-58 victory showed their ability to live up to this team’s billing as the top team in the conference’s Northern Division. After the blow-out, Coach Bob McKillop appeared pleased with his troops' rebound from the difficult stretch in early January. “The word to describe tonight’s game is trust,” Coach McKillop said. “They trusted the system. They trusted their teammates to pass the ball back. Trust was the foundation. Despite the two difficult losses, they kept believing in each other. “This was the most consistent performance to record-breaking seasons in each of the most recent three campaigns.I look at how well we’ve worked as a team, how much we’ve gotten out of what we have; that’s the sort of evaluation that’s important to me. Five years ago we were really hurting for wins, but now they’re coming, and I think the reason they’re coming is that we have much better talent now. Another reason is that we’re saying, “Let’s just be us out there, play as well as we can, and the results will take care of themselves.”

The ‘Cats pounced on Phil Hopkins’ team early, jumping out to a 21-5 lead on a Brian Turner three-point field goal. Davidson never looked back and extended the lead to as many as forty in the second half. “The first five minutes was the telling point of the game,” Hopkins said. “What happened is what I was afraid was going to happen. The reason it happened is their tremendous defensive pressure and how hard they run on the offensive side.”

Led by Davor Halbauer’s 19 points on 7-11 shooting, Davidson smothered the Catamounts with a consistent offensive attack. “Without a doubt, this was the most complete performance by Davor Halbauer this year,” McKillop said. “Extremely smart decisions were made on the part of Davor Halbauer.” The ‘Cats finished the game shooting 63 percent from the field. Four players scored in double figures, and all 11 players in uniform scored. “When Davidson shoots the ball like they did tonight, they are tough to beat,” Hopkins said.

As is his style, Ali Ton flawlessly executed the oft-overlooked intangibles that provide the keys to victory. He scored nine points to go along with his season-high 12 assists and six steals. More importantly, Ton, along with backcourt mates Halbauer and Michael Bree, forced 26 Catamount turnovers while holding the WCU guards to a season-low 5 assists. “Ali Ton is the heart and soul of that team,” Hopkins said.

Davidson hopes to build on Saturday afternoon’s positive play as they search for continued success and disregard the disappointing defeats. “Sometimes you have to take a step back before you take a step forward,” McKillop said. “You have to get knocked to the mat to see what you are made of. We want to be at our best in late February.” The WCU action provided a glimpse of “their best.” “[Tonight’s game] was a perfect blend of aggressiveness and patience.”

Women’s Head Basketball Coach John Filar

DSS: What moments stand out in your mind as the most ecstatic or most disappointing since you’ve been here?

Filar: Certainly one of the most rewarding was the first conference win we had here against Western Carolina. We had four seniors on that team who had never won a conference game, so that was very important. The win at Georgia Tech was also huge for us. I could have gone out and sat in that arena until four or five in the morning. I just didn’t want to leave. It was a moment where we were all able to say, “Hey, Wow! Look at what we’ve become. Look how much we’ve grown.” Another moment would be the game at Vanderbilt. Seeing our kids respond like that in front of 6000 people against the #9 team in the country was just fantastic.

Every year what’s memorable is to see how close the team becomes. When I talk to recruits I say, “Well, yeah we have a great basketball program here with fantastic players, but they’re ten times the fine young ladies that they are players. When I go away from here what I'll remember is, yeah, the teams, but mostly the individuals.” I'd say the most disappointing thing here has been to watch us so many times over the last three seasons not be able to put everyone on the floor. That’s always tough.

DSS: Can you give a general overview of this year’s team, with regard to not just performance and expectations for the homestretch, but team chemistry?

Filar: This has been the most enjoyable season so far and gone by the fastest. Once we came to grips with what the expectations were, we said, “That’s fantastic to be picked #1 here and there, but there’s much more to it than that. We talk a lot about journey and destination. That’s the destination we want, but the thing you really remember about the season is the journey. If the journey is really an enjoyable and rewarding one, then the destination will take care of itself.” We come into practice this year and don’t have to spend time motivating. The players perform every day, have high standards and push themselves. We're where we want to be. We're starting to play better and better. I’m excited about where we are, but even more excited about where we are going. We’ve always been very clear about what we’re after. We want to bring a Southern Conference title banner home. The quest for a banner is a popular topic of conversation around our locker room. This is the team that can do it. We want to be associated with the best women’s teams here and keep setting higher standards for ourselves.