M Se 7 Se O N ID A » 4G

Volleyball squad showcases depth of talent in weekend’s action

By Brad STEVINSON
Staff Writer

At the beginning of the season, Coach Lisa Marston had a suspicion that the '99 Wildcat squad might be one of the deepest teams Davidson has seen in recent years. On Friday night and Saturday afternoon, she put this depth to the test, playing all fourteen Wildcats in contests against College of Charleston and the Citadel. Marston’s Wildcats, from top to bottom, passed with flying colors.

After being swept by N.C. State on Tuesday, the ‘Cats were looking to rebound against Southern Conference opponent College of Charleston on Friday night. They did just that, sweeping the Cougars 15-5, 15-11, and 15-11 in a mere seventy-five minutes. More impressively, every Wildcat saw action in the match.

“Being able to work more people into the match will help us later on this season,” assistant coach Kelly McCaffrey said. “We have great depth at the right side and setting positions, which we will hopefully be able to continue to utilize.”

Sophomore Erica Schwartz, as she would do all weekend, paced the offense Friday night, recording 17 assists and 11 digs, highs in both departments on the team. Freshman Rebecca Teichgraeber and sophomore Jennifer Ortega led the team with seven kills each. Junior Mara Mordini entered the game with 899 career digs and eclipsed the 900 plateau with one of her eight digs in the game.

On Saturday afternoon, the ‘Cats manhandled a struggling Citadel squad, sweeping them 15-8, 15-2, 15-5. The contest gave Coach Marston yet another opportunity to showcase Davidson’s impressive depth. Freshmen Kaitlyn Martin, Roberta Quis, and Rebecca Teichgraeber logged extensive minutes, and each recorded five kills. Sophomore right-side hitter Jacqueline Ortega also played solidly. Schwartz, once again, quarterbacked the offense, earning an impressive 27 assists.

The wins kept Davidson undefeated in conference play (4-0) and improved its overall record to 11-2.

“It was really good to see that we are in fact fifteen members solidly deep,” said Mordini. “In both games, we used experimental line-ups, playing with people we hadn’t necessarily played together with in practice. We came across some bumps, but the team overcame them.”

The bumps were few and far between in the Citadel match, as the ‘Cats crushed any fleeting glance of a Citadel offensive with overwhelming force. Davidson tempered power with consistency, throwing the Bulldogs’ offense into disarray and tearing the defense into shreds. In the third game, the Citadel fought its way to a 4-2 lead before the Wildcat offense took over, outscoring the Bulldogs 13-1 to win the game and the match. The streak was marked by the impressive serving of freshmen Martin and Quis. Alison Board had the game winner, killing off a Citadel block.

“It was just really positive and encouraging to see that we can use the entire bench and still get things done,” said Jacqueline Ortega. Mordini echoed the sentiment. “It was a good weekend for the entire team. We bounced back from mistakes with big hits, big serves, and big kills. We carried ourselves well in pressure situations.”

Davidson begins a five-game road trip on Tuesday against Wofford. If this weekend was a test of the ‘Cats’ depth, the month of October will test the squad’s grit and determination, as Davidson has only two home games.

“This month will be a true test to see what our team is made of,” said Jacqueline Ortega. “So far it has been easy playing the big games at home, in front of our crowd, but now we have to get geared up to play well.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In the big games on the road.”

Women’s soccer continues to dominate Southern Conference

By Burgin Harpin
Sports Editor

Patience is a virtue. Slow and steady wins the race. Such are the catchphrases often preached by well-intended parents, teachers, and coaches to encourage their charges to be more diligent, assuring them they will achieve success invariably if they are dedicated and committed.

Somebody has taught the Lady Wildcat soccer team well. After only mustering 11 victories over the last two seasons, the Lady Wildcats have notched 6 consecutive wins. And they’ve done it only 8 games into the 1999 campaign. The latest in this string of “W’s” came before a home crowd last Thursday night with a 3-0 defeat of Elon College. The Wildcats commanded the second half, scoring all 3 goals in the latter 45 minutes.

“I told them at halftime, ‘We have 45 minutes and we can win in 45 minutes. We have to have the patience and play well,’” said Head Coach Kevin Hundley following the game.

And patience they had. After a scoreless first half, it wasn’t even until halfway through the second half that Davidson got on the board when freshman Penn Graves punched it in at the 61:17 mark. But from that point on, the ‘Cats were unstoppable, knocking home two more goals over a thirteen-minute span.

“We opened the game up in the second half,” said Hundley. “Everybody relaxed once we got the [first] goal and played with a lot less nervousness.”

Two minutes after Graves’ score, freshman forward Tara Maloney added a goal after recovering a loose ball that had slipped out of the goalie’s hands. After a shot ricocheted off the arm of Elon goalkeeper Sommer Cork and dribbled past her, Maloney quickly pounced on it and tapped an easy score into the unattended Elon goal. Tara’s sister, Heather, and freshman Mary Ellen Schaefer were credited with assists on the play.

Schaefer came up even bigger at the 74:50 mark with a tremendous header off a corner kick by Heather Maloney that upped the score to 3-0. “We worked on corners in practice,” noted a beaming Coach Hundley.

Thus the score remained as the final buzzer sounded, by which time the Wildcats had made 15 shots on goal, 10 of which came in the second half. Senior goalkeeper Chesley Garrett recorded two saves en route to her second shutout of the year.

Now at the midpoint in their 1999 campaign, the ‘Cats have only given up one goal in the last 6 games, and Coach Hundley is optimistic about the future. “We’re on a roll,” he said. “And the confidence is there for us to keep going.”

Hundley also spoke highly of the team’s freshman class, which has accounted for 8 of the team’s 13 goals this season, and praised the leadership of the senior Lady Wildcats. As they head into the last five weeks of regular season action, the Wildcats (6-2, 2-0) still try to take it one game at a time, but Hundley admits to being anxious about the upcoming conference matches. Among those schools on the Wildcats' schedule during October are conference foes Furman, East Tennessee State, College of Charleston, Western Carolina, and defending conference champion UNC Greensboro.

They will return home to host Georgia Southern Sept. 29 in a pivotal Southern Conference doubleheader with the men’s team, which will face the College of Charleston. Also of note, the games have been moved from Richardson Stadium to the practice soccer fields, and the women’s game is now slated to begin at 4 p.m.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.