_

TT

u> ee SoR

~

See Ya’ in the Tourney
Wildcats take Charleston (19-2) to the wire

By Bro Krirr
Staff Writer

Could it get any better?

Could it get any worse?

Davidson’s men’s basketball team had the perfect opportunity in front of a conference home game record crowd (5,499) to show the world why they are the defending Southern Conference champions. And they did it... for 33 minutes. Unfortunately, Davidson still had to play 40 minutes last night against the College of Charleston Cougars.

Davidson seemed poised for the challenge from the opening tip. In the first half, the Wildcats hit 65 percent of their shots while jumping out to a 15-point half-time lead on a deep three-point bomb from Ali Ton. As the ball fell crisply through the net, Ton pumped his fist and pointed toward the student section.

Charleston—like a tired and worn-out heavyweight boxer—appeared in shock as they took Davidson’s hardest punch. But twenty minutes remained and the Cougars were still standing.

“Bob McKillop had them hitting home runs tonight, especially in the first half. In the first half we couldn’t stop Davidson,” proclaimed Cougar coach John Kresse.

In a performance reminiscent of earlier match-ups against Navy, Wake Forest, Colgate, and UNCC, the Wildcats played nearly flawless basketball until a cover was put on the basket.

In fact, Davidson only scored two baskets in the last eight minutes of the game. To compound Davidson’s offensive frustrations, Charleston scored on all nine of their attempts from the floor in the last seven minutes.

Tied at 78 all, Charleston’s Danny Johnson sealed the deal when he pulled down an offensive rebound off a Sedric Webber missed free throw and then made a long three in front of his coach, John Kresse.

“If we had a drought in the last six minutes, we wouldn’t have had a chance. 27 points in eight minutes, that’s incredible,” said Kresse.

Coach McKillop was as elated with his team’s performance as he was disappointed. “I thought our effort tonight was outstanding.”

But the tides turned after a breakaway lay-in by junior forward Landry Kosmalski.

“At that point, I thought we couldn’t give them any easy shots and we did,” said Coach McKillop. “They were then feeling that little breath of confidence. Bottom line, we had to get stops and we didn’t get them. We got caught in the mud in the second half.”

Ali Ton led the way for the Wildcats as he scored a new career-high 22 points to go along with his team-high nine assists. But his performance was not enough as Davidson took quick complacent shots down the stretch.

Webber led all scorers with 24 points. Webber and mates only turned the ball over two times in the second half, hit 60 percent of their shots, and pulled down seven offensive rebounds.

The Wildcats know that save for the conference tournament, one game does not a season make.

“I'd rather have this experience now than in February,” declared Coach McKillop.

And what an experience for both teams, the crowd, and everyone in the building.

“I have never been on any other campus in the Southern Conference with this kind of atmosphere,” asserted Coach McKillop.

John Kresse took it even a step further: “The atmosphere tonight was fantastic. It was an ACC type atmosphere. It doesn’t get any better at any place, even at Cameron, at the Dean Dome, or at Maryland.”

Coll. of Charleston

@ Emeka Erege brought the crowd to their feet with this one-handed slam.

Davidson

84

“The atmosphere tonight was fantastic. It doesn’t get any better at any place, even at Cameron, at the Dean Dome, or at Maryland.” — Charleston coach John Kresse

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:

Reigning Southern Conference Coach of the Year Bob McKillop:

“I have never been on any other campus in the Southern Conference with this kind of atmosphere.”

ALI TON

The senior captain from Turkey scored a season-high 22 points on Saturday against Charleston.

The team’s all-time assist leader exploded into a scoring frenzy against the ‘Cats’ newest conference rival.

WOMEN’S B-BALL

vs. UNC-Greensboro

Monday, 7:30 PM
Belk Arena

The Wildcats host conference-leading UNC-Greensboro with a chance to spark a final run at the regular season conference title.

Kurt Hirsekorn
Swimming & Diving

The sophomore from New Jersey won the 200 individual IM and 200 breaststroke on Saturday, recording personal best times of 1:55.73 & 2:06.59, respectively.