14... THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1999

SPORTS

Wildcats drop key contest to ETSU

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Davidson continued their skid down the Southern Conference standings on Saturday, dropping their contest against East Tennessee State University to mark the ‘Cats’ third loss in four games.

Davidson 54
ETSU 75

With the defeat, Davidson fell to sixth place in the Southern Conference.

Thanks to a pair of upsets on the day (Wofford defeated second-place Georgia Southern and top-notched UNC-Greensboro fell to Western Carolina), the Wildcats are still but three games out of first place. But they'll have to leapfrog five teams over the next few weeks in order to claim the SoCon regular season championship.

Though that prospect is looking increasingly distant, it is by no means out of reach. Davidson has six games remaining—with chances to hand losses to the three top teams of the conference (UNC-G, Georgia Southern, and Furman) as well as opportunities to rack up victories against the conference’s basement dwellers (Western Carolina, College of Charleston, and Wofford).

“With everybody beating up on each other,” head coach John Filar pondered, “you just can’t tell. We're a team that could go anywhere from sixth place to first place, that’s an unbelievable range.”

The teams played evenly to a 31-31 half-time score, but then the bottom fell out: Davidson shot a mere 33% from the floor and 50% from the free throw line in the second half. ETSU’s Buccaneers outscored the ‘Cats 44-23 in the latter twenty minutes on their way to a 75-54 victory. The Wildcats’ point total for the evening fell 25 points below their season average.

Davidson was without the services of leading-scorer Jamie Brown, whose MRI last week confirmed she had indeed torn meniscus (cartilage) in her knee. Brown had been playing on the injury for approximately a month. Arthroscopic surgery could repair the tear, but would also pose a month-long recovery period, jeopardizing the star’s likelihood of returning to form in time for the Southern Conference Tournament.

“I’ve decided to wait until after the season for the surgery,” Brown said. “It feels a lot better than it has recently. I’m going to try to play this next weekend.”

A factor in the ‘Cats struggles through this half of the season has been a lack of scoring balance. In early-season action, it wasn’t uncommon to see five or six players scoring in double-digits.

In Saturday’s loss, seniors Jessica Montrella, Kerry Brown, and junior Jen O’Brien scored 44 of the team’s 54 points. The remainder of the ‘Cats lineup contributed only 10 points in 97 minutes of floor time on 4-22 shooting.

Freshman Leah Uhernik started her first game of the season, filling in for the injured Jamie Brown. Uhernik pulled down six rebounds on the night, but the freshman could not alone offset the scoring deficiency created by Jamie Brown’s absence—the senior captain out of Pennsylvania leads the Wildcats with almost 16 points per game.

“I think we can always make up for points and rebounds if we're missing a player,” commented Brown. “But jumbling up a lineup will always throw any team for a loop. It was a tough assignment for our freshmen to be thrown into the mix and expecting them to score points, but they’ll be ready for it (Monday).”

Davidson traveled to Charleston last night, and will then visit Western Carolina on Saturday before returning home to take on league-leading UNC-G on Monday night.

“With the way teams are winning and losing,” said Jamie Brown, “we still have a chance and we have to remember that. We still have the ability to come in first.”

Jamie Brown hopes to return from a knee injury for next weekend’s contests against Western Carolina and UNC Greensboro.

Junior captain Jen O’Brien pulls up for a jumper against Georgia Southern last Monday. O’Brien is at the top of the Southern Conference in assists.