4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Greenway to extend from Main St. to I-77

By COLLEGE RELATIONS

Freshly cleared lots on Davidson’s Griffith Street where houses once stood are the sign of Davidson College’s efforts to help
residents of that town gateway improve their living conditions. The college recently razed three substandard homes there, and it is
making attempts to find better living arrangements for residents. The College still owns three Griffith Street lots with homes that
it rents to tenants.

Susie Lowery, a retiree who formerly worked on the college’s Patterson Court fraternity row, had lived in her home at
315 Griffith Street for 50 years, but she was forced to sell her house because she couldn’t afford to maintain
it. She tried to get a rehabilitation grant from the town but found none available, so she asked Davidson College
Physical Plant administrators if the college was interested in buying her home. The college bought her property and gave her
a college lot on nearby Mallard Court on which she built a new two-bedroom house. Lowery said she was sorry
to have to leave the Griffith Street home she loved but happy to be in a sturdy, new dwelling. “I
feel alright about it, except that I couldn’t get anyone to move my flowers and shrubbery!” she said.

The demolition of that home has also allowed the Town of Davidson to complete the Griffith Street sidewalk all the
way from Main Street to I-77. Another home demolished, which had sat on the corner of Watson Street, was vacant.
The college offered to donate the structure to at least two local, non-profit groups, but none found it suitable for
their needs. The third home, at 331 Griffith, had fallen into disrepair, and the college purchased it in 1992 at
the owner’s request.

The college’s acquisition on Griffith Street began with a group of alumni who incorporated as Griffith Street Properties Inc. who
purchased lots in 1984. Their intention was to create a greenway entrance to town along the main thoroughfare from I-77.

The College is now building a duplex apartment on Westside Terrace for Graham and another college renter and will raze
their Griffith Street houses when that duplex is finished later this spring. Graham said he has lived in the house
for almost 15 years and considers the street quiet and safe. He’s a little wary that the youngsters in his
new neighborhood might...

BAT mobile visits campus

By Cader Howard

Continued from page 2

The survey used the responses of 253 full-time students, of which 56% were women. As indicated by the report, Davidson
students believe drinking is a problem larger in scope than researchers found it to be. For example, while 0.4% of
students surveyed believed that there were no students on campus who had never had a drink, 14% of those surveyed
said that they had “never” touched alcohol. The latter number is significantly greater than the national average for the percentage
of students on campus who had never drunk alcohol.

The study reported that nineteen percent of Davidson students reported having driven a car while under the influence of alcohol.
The number of Davidson students who reported that they had “been hurt or injured” was also nineteen percent. Eighteen percent
had “been taken advantage of sexually” and 6.9% “had taken advantage of another sexually” due to alcohol-related incidents. The number
who had “tried unsuccessfully to stop using” alcohol was 6.5%. Thirteen percent thought they “might have a drinking or other
drug problem.” Because of problems with alcohol, 21% “performed poorly on a test or important project,” 30% had “missed a
class,” and 46% “had a memory loss” while under the influence or shortly thereafter. These were all percentages greater than
those reported by other institutions in Davidson’s “reference group.”

Despite the assertion that reported alcohol-related incidents have decreased since last year, no student could be found to support the
claim that drinking is down from last year. When asked whether she thought that the freshmen this year drink more
than the junior class did in their freshman year, Fourth Cannon Hall Counselor, Amy Council ’00 said, “I think that
the freshmen this year drink more than students did my freshman year. There are, however, fewer parties during the week.”
Anna Fenton-Hathaway ‘99 added, “Because it is harder to obtain beer on the Court, there is more drinking in the
dorms.” Although some freshmen tended to agree with the statement that binge drinking is perhaps more prevalent at Davidson, Mackenzie
Hilton ’02 said that “the social life at Davidson lends itself to drinking because it is dominated by the fraternities
and eating houses, but many students, including freshmen, drink responsibly.” Hilton continued by saying, “The close-knit community of Davidson emphasizes
any minute drinking problems.” Lindsey Cattreal ’02 tended to agree with Council and Hathaway when she said, “People are drinking
to get drunk.” Cattreal also said, “Many freshmen drink enough to be drunk all night, before going down to the
Court, because drinks are more difficult to get at the Court.”

Regardless of the debate about a decrease or increase in alcohol use at Davidson, only a fraction of the student
body are above the legal drinking age of 21.re- quire some adjustment but said he’s appreciative of a new dwelling
and satis- fied with the arrangement. Lena Connor, who has lived at 336 Griffith Street since 1971, had been hoping
for some time to move into a nicer house for her retirement years.

Property quest. The college’s property acquisition on Griffith Street began with a group of alumni who incorporated as Griffith Street
Properties Inc. who purchased lots in 1984. Their intention was to create a greenway entrance to town along the main
thoroughfare from I-77. The corporation ceased operation in 1994 and donated its properties to the college. Since that time, the
college has not actively sought to buy more lots but has responded to residents like Lowery who wished to sell.
Bob Collins, director of the Physical Plant, said Davidson now owns 18 of the 25 lots fronting Griffith Street between
Watson Street and Davidson Pond. The college still owns three Griffith Street lots with homes that it rents to tenants.
One is the 337 Griffith Street home of William and Hazel Graham. William Graham retired from the college’s dining services
last year but still works.

"One day I saw someone from the college down here and told him I heard that the college was buying
houses. He said that was right, so I told him, ‘Come on in!’” Connor identified a house for sale on
Lakeside Terrace and got a price for her Griffith Street house from the college that allowed her to buy it
and fix it up. She’s having that work done now and hopes to move in by the end of February.
“It made me proud, what they paid me for it,” Connor recalled.

Collins, the college’s Physical Plant director, pointed out that the college is engaged in real estate management throughout town to
provide housing opportunities for staff and faculty. He included the actions on Griffith Street as a part of that activity.
However, the college has no current plans for the property on Griffith Street other than maintaining it as a scenic
greenway entry to the town and college.

PCC Minutes
SUBMITTED BY PHOEBE NORTON
PCC Secretary
Union Conference Room
February 14, 1999

I. Attendance

II. Announcements
*FLAG-Ann Culp came to tell us that Shane Windmeyer is coming to campus on April 1. The program is called
Coming Out on Fraternity Row, and PCC will donate some money for dinner.
*PCC Games. We set up a standing committee to work out timing, location, and games to see if we have
an interest.
*Jim’s Announcements.
(A) TIPS Schedule
Tuesday, Feb 23 MCF 304 15 WH/15 SAE and
Wednesday, Feb 24 MCF 304 15 Rusk/15 KA
(B) President’s One-on-One meetings need to be set up.
(C) SEIFC/SEPC
SEIFC is February 18-21
SEPC is March 25-28
Jim needs to hear from the women if they want to attend.
(D) Remember to lock up your kitchens at night and on the weekends. Jim has keys in the office for
House and Kitchen Managers.
(E) Reminders to turn in: Budgets from Treasurers, Risk Agreements (green), and Anti-Hazing Forms (yellow), House maintenance system from House/Kitchen
Managers.

III. Finances - Mauricio Sauma
Bills will be in mailboxes on Wed., Feb. 17. Dues are due on Wed., Feb. 24 payable to Patterson Court
Council. Meeting for treasurers will be in two weeks with the Controller's office.

IV. Service - Desirae Haylock
Relay for Life will be held April 16-17. Every house must raise at least one team of ten people. Team
lists are due Friday. Service chairs must call Desirae Haylock or Christine Larned for Captain packets.

V. Judicial Board - Scott Buchanan
No trials for this week. Last Wednesday, trials were held for SAE and Turner.

VI. Committees
Each committee met to go over its duties.

EGG DONOR for clinic in VA/NC region: Caucasian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker, college degree or higher, solid SAT scores, at least
5'5". Serious candidates will be compensated. Background, education, and motivation for donation will be considered. All serious replies answered.

Community Service Office creates new scholarship
FROM THE COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICE
Working on behalf of Bruce Parker, who is a philanthropist living in Charlotte, NC, the Community Service Office is coordinating
the application for and allocation of funds for his service scholarships. This fund provides Davidson students with the opportunity to
design service projects which combine academic and personal interests. The strongest candidates are those who design a project which synthesizes
their various interests and passions into one meaningful, challenging service experience. Due to the timing of the application process, projects
should take place during the summer months of 1999, unless otherwise approved prior to the application deadline.

The office encourages all interested applicants to apply and to be creative and ambitious in their project proposals. All recipients
of funding must comply with several requirements. First of all, they must save and submit receipts for project expenses. Students
are also required to write a one-page reflection essay upon completion of the project. Finally, recipients are encouraged to share
their experience with the rest of the campus when they return.

All students interested in this opportunity are encouraged to contact Bill Abrams, the Community Service Coordinator (x2460), before completing their
proposal. Proposals will be reviewed regardless of prior involvement in service. All applicants are encouraged to discuss their ideas with
the service coordinator, especially if they are unsure of their options for summer projects. If necessary, applicants may be contacted
for a personal interview. The Parker Fund proposal should include reasons for applying, well-developed summer service internship or project, and
a tentative budget for summer expenses, including other sources of funding. Proposals are due in Linda Gurley’s Office, Union basement
located in Room 04, on March 19, 1999 by 5:00 p.m.
