DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“The Tom Clark Museum's Foremost College Weekly” - Established 1914

Downward trend in tuition increase! NEWS 2

Tinky Winky! OPINIONS 4

Maxwell’s House of Style! A&L 7

Ian Kaplan captures NCAA berth in 150-pound weight class! SPORTS 12

Professor Kazee to leave Davidson for Sewanee

By Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

Political science professor Tom Kazee will be leaving Davidson to assume the position of dean of the college and professor
of political science at the University of the South in Sewanee, Tennessee. His duties at Sewanee will begin on July
1, and Kazee will completely finish his tenure at Davidson after the Davidson in Washington program ends on July 24.
As dean of the college, Kazee’s position will be analogous to Davidson’s dean of faculty.

Kazee explained that while his emphasis has stayed primarily on teaching at Davidson, he will work more with administrative duties
at Sewanee. He enjoyed the idea of “the challenge professionally and personally of helping to shape their curriculum.” This shaping
encompasses the two-year, interdisciplinary humanities program. Also included among his duties is the recruitment and retainment of “good faculty.” Because
the dean of admissions will report to him, Kazee will help the University of the South to raise its national
profile. Along with his administrative duties, he will still teach one political science course per year.

Kazee said, “I will certainly miss teaching,” but he looks at his new position as a “temporary detour” from his
primary profession: “I assume, at some point, I'll return to the classroom.” Despite the departure from teaching, Kazee looks forward
to the change. Because Davidson and the University of the South are similar in size, focus, and ranking, he is
eager to be “part of a community that is as excited about liberal arts as Davidson is.”

The University of the South first contacted Kazee in November after people on the Davidson campus with Sewanee connections told
him about the job and asked about his interest. After telephone conversations with the search committee, Kazee went first to
Atlanta and then to the campus for interviews. He praised both interviews as one of the reasons he decided to
accept the position because it is “a fresh challenge, an opportunity to do something I’ve always thought about doing.”

The move will also occur at a good time for his family. He will have “an empty nest” in the
fall with his daughter Nicole starting her senior year at Wake Forest University and his son Geoff entering Davidson as
a freshman. His wife Sharon will leave her job as a curriculum supervisor for performing arts in the Charlotte/Mecklenburg School
System to teach music at St. Andrews Sewanee, a private high school in the area. Kazee said, “the prospect of
both of us taking on a new challenge professionally is pretty exciting.”

Kazee has taught at Davidson since the fall of 1981 and has served as the chair of the political science
department since 1989. He won the Hunter-Hamilton Love of Teaching Award in 1996. Of his time at Davidson, Kazee said
the most rewarding experience has been “working with students.” Kazee decided to accept the position because it is “a fresh
challenge, an opportunity to do something I’ve always thought about doing.” He praised both Davidson’s teaching environment: “Davidson attracts a...”

Giduz Photo c/o College CommunicationsRemarkable group of students, and this is a wonderful place to teach.” Kazee decided to accept
the position because it is “a fresh challenge, an opportunity to do Professor Kazee continued on next page.

Dr. Elijah Anderson delivers speech
By Mandy Lauria
Staff Writer

On Thursday, March 11th, Dr. Elijah Anderson gave a lecture to the public entitled “Violence and the Inner City Street
Code” at 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. Dr. Janet Shannon, an associate professor of Sociology
who has wanted Dr. Anderson to visit for years, collaborated with Dr. Vivian Dietz, the head of the lecture committee,
to make the lecture a reality. The Dean of Students office, Economics department, Sociology department, Public Lecture Committee, and Dr.
Clark Ross have contributed to making the lecture possible.

Dr. Anderson is a Charles and William L. Day Professor of the Social Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. A
celebrated sociologist, he has done important ethnographic studies dealing with social issues in Philadelphia. He received his master’s degree from
the University of Chicago’s department of Sociology and his Ph.D. from Northwestern University’s Department of Sociology. Dr. Anderson’s book, “Street
Wise,” has earned him the Robert E. Park Award of the American Sociological Association.

Taking advantage of the opportunity to interact with Davidson students before his speech, Dr. Anderson started his day with a
breakfast with African-American students. Later he had lunch with local clergy and community leaders. In the afternoon, Dr. Anderson talked
with students in Urban Sociology and Economic History classes.

This lecture consisted of information that helped to explain problems in the urban environment. Dr. Anderson challenged students to question
where the responsibility for urban problems lies. As our economy moves to a high-tech global economy, many low-skilled, high-paying jobs
are eliminated. Dr. Anderson explained that inner city African-Americans, who used to depend on factories, cannot make a successful adjustment
to this transition. CEOs of companies rarely consider the inner city workers and are more concerned with making a profit.
Dr. Anderson asked students, “What do you do in a situation like that?” He suggested that more emphasis should be
placed on “building human capital in these cities.”

Many poor African-Americans living in ghettos believe that drugs, inability to obtain jobs, and even AIDS are attempts by a
higher white conspiracy to destroy African-Americans. When these inner city African-Americans have trouble finding jobs, they suffer a “profound alienation
and don’t believe in the system,” Dr. Anderson said. According to Dr. Anderson, loss of faith in the work ethic
occurs when opportunities are not available. Instead, many inner city African-Americans turn to an underground economy that offers what seems
to be a better life. Dr. Anderson observed that drugs, prostitution, and crime offer many disillusioned inhabitants of Philadelphia’s ghettos
a way to earn money. Dr. Anderson explained why many African-Americans living in ghettos feel there is a white conspiracy
against them. According to Dr. Anderson, it remains extremely difficult for blacks to obtain employment, and the jobs that are
available to them often are ones that whites do not want.

Inner city violence continued on page 3.
