Silver Anniversary

Continued from front page
the college proper, the original library collection contained 1630 volumes. The room designed for the library had no artificial heating or cooling, and in the winter the librarian, Miss Cornelia Shaw, had to wear boots and a scarf to keep warm. Outgrowing this frigid environment, the collection moved from Old Chambers to the Carnegie Library, now the Carnegie Guest House. Andrew Carnegie donated $20,000 for the project. This library was used for 30 years until 1940 when Captain James Park Grey, an alumnus, donated funds for a new building. On October 1, 1941, the books were moved from the Carnegie Library to the Grey Memorial Library, now the College Union, by a human chain of students and faculty. The college served refreshments and broadcast a ball game over loudspeaker to keep the momentum going. By the late sixties, Davidson was outgrowing the Grey Library and made plans for the Little Library. An innovation in architecture, the designers kept the Jeffersonian design, but the new library could not exceed Chambers’ daunting height. The library building is modeled on the only structure Thomas Jefferson built with a flat roof.

Today the library remains the center of academic life at Davidson. Each day approximately 1000 people pass through the front doors, which calculates to 8 million over the past 25 years. Dr. Leland Park, Director of the Library, explains that the building has served the college well. The designers planned the building to accommodate changing technology, an important factor in the structure’s lasting power. Currently, the library has 470,000 volumes (impressive compared to the original 1630), half of which have been checked out over the past seven years. This statistic is impressive when placed against the average of 20% check out for most colleges and universities. What's in store for E.H. Little Library? According to Dr. Park, a classroom in the basement and a storage facility are in the works. But the question on everyone's mind: what about the green carpet? Dr. Park points out that the green shade, which Davidson has come to hold near and dear to its heart, has held up for 25 years, an impressive stint considering 8 million people have walked across it. They do plan to replace it, however, after completion of the classroom and the storage facility. When asked about the current status of the building, Dr. Park is confident that it will remain for another 25 years. Whether used for checking e-mail, doing research, or late-night studying, the E.H. Little Library holds special significance for almost everyone at Davidson. For some, it is a love/hate relationship, but the E.H. Little Library remains the center of most academic life at Davidson. Don’t forget to go through Richardson Plaza Monday, September 27 from 1-3 pm. Get some free ice cream and learn something about the place in which you spend so much time.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

Stately pillars reach towards the sky in front of E. H. Little Library.

Wesley H. Goldsberry

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDLISH
ANN GREGORY
Photographer
JAKE HARRINGTON

SPORTS
Senior Editor
MIKE ANDERSON
Photographer
ANNA JUDY
Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
PETER CLARK

Advertising Manager
PETER CLARK

Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Circulation Managers
CINDY CLARK
INA SPECHAR

Circulation
DEREK KVERNO
IRENE MIDDLETON
DAN WINGATE

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
MELISSA ANN deCASTRIQUE

ARTS & LIVING
Senior Editor
SETH DAVIS
Photographers
JESSICA BOGO
ADAM SOTO

Copy-Editor Extraordinaire
WHITNEY BLAKE

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Founded in 1914

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

The Davidsonian is published Mondays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Wesley H. Goldsberry

Into the stacks at Little Library.