_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Reduced Shakespeare Troupe
will review the millennium

By Jim Swansbrough
College Communications

The four-member Reduced Shakespeare Company will visit Davidson College on Monday, Oct. 25, to perform “The Millennium Musical: Abridged to
the 21st Century.” This comic musical presentation has received rave reviews for its hilarious rendition of “1000 years in 100
minutes.”

The performance begins at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium of Chambers Building, and is presented through the College Union’s Artists
Series. Tickets are $14 for adults and $10 for senior citizens, or by Artists Series season ticket.

Blending a broad array of physical humor with irreverent satire, the quartet of actors adopts numerous accents, costumes, and fashions
of facial hair to depict the more famous (and infamous) people of the millennium. They depict characters as varied as
Leif Ericsson, Joan of Arc, Michelangelo, Howard Stern, Monica Lewinsky, and John Glenn. The wit and topical humor of the
troupe has been compared to that of the Marx Brothers and Monty Python.

The Reduced Shakespeare Company was founded in 1981 by Daniel Singer, an eight-year performer with the company, and is based
in California. The troupe has been on the road ever since, and currently consists of Reed Martin, Austin Tichenor, and
Dee Ryan as performers, as well as Nick Graham, who plays keyboard and guitar and who wrote the original music
for the production. The “Millennium” production is written and directed by Martin and Tichenor.

During homecoming weekend, the installation of the new Tucker sculpture between the E.H. Little Library and Duke Dorm occurred.

The Century author
Todd Brewster will
speak at Davidson

By Jim Swansbrough
College Communications

Todd Brewster, co-author of the number one New York Times bestseller The Century, will speak at Davidson College on Thursday,
Oct. 21. The presentation will review the most impacting events of this century, from the arts and technology to race
relations and war. It will include a selection of unused photographs taken for the book, as well as video clips
from the 27-hour ABC television series based on the book.

Six years of research by the staff of ABC News went into the production of The Century, a book which
delves into the past with analysis, pictures, and eyewitness interviews with people who experienced the events first-hand. The television series,
hosted by Peter Jennings and based on the book, was broadcast this year on ABC and the History Channel.

Brewster wrote and edited for Life magazine for 10 years, and witnessed many of the events depicted in his book.
He was in Czechoslovakia in 1989 when the communist government was toppled by Vaclav Havel. He also witnessed the enactment
of martial law in Poland to drive off the Solidarity trade union, and he ran Life’s Washington bureau during the
Persian Gulf War. He is currently a senior editorial producer for the ABC network television and History Channel series.

Health Educator

P.O. Box 1719
Davidson, NC 28036

(704) 892-2615 (FAX)

Georgia Ringle, M.P.H.

(704) 892-2902 (Office)

FLU Vaccinations
this Thursday,
October 21st in
the tent in front
of Chambers

Flu Vaccines will be given on Thursday, October 21st on the front lawn of Chambers from 11 a.m. to 1
p.m. There is a $7 charge which is billable to your account. This is an important vaccine to get this
time of the year. There is a noticeable difference in the degree of winter illness in those students who have
been vaccinated. The rain location will be in the Chambers Gallery. For questions call Georgia Ringle x2902.

Davidson College Student Health Center
