THE DAVIDSONIAN Editorials Part Deux

(Editor's note: Please read this week’s Letters to the Editor prior to reading the following editorial.)

“Somehow I'll manage to write an editorial for each of this semester's issues. Some of these will undoubtedly end up
offending certain factions of the college population... Sure, I’ve had my allies, but unfortunately, their names didn’t appear at the
top of these articles, while mine did. Thus I suffer the so-called ‘blowback’ alone, serving as the whipping boy for
all those who share my opinion.” —Wesley H. Goldsberry, Davidsonian 90/14 (January 26, 1999), 4.

Well, it finally happened. Some would say it’s about time that one of us found a pertinent campus issue to
tackle, finally taking a stand, creating a stir, spurring campus dialogue. We’ve been starved for controversy, and when at long
last circumstances presented me with an opportunity to opine upon an issue worth discussing, I couldn’t afford not to leap
all over it. Life at Davidson can and does reach beyond the realms of laundry and Teletubbies, and our editorials
should reflect the more prominent aspects of campus life.

As a result of my most recent attempt at doing so, certain factions of the college population were indeed offended
and/or hurt by several of my contentions. Not terribly unexpected — anticipated, in fact. I admit to making presumptions that
turned out to be false. I admit that a few of the raw facts in my editorial were incorrect. My
oversights aided in misrepresenting both the Women’s Issues Committee and the Davidson Photography Club, and I have made apologies to
all those who have mandated and deserved them.

This past week, faced with the dilemma of whether or not to respond to the forthcoming onslaught of written retribution,
I sought my predecessors’ advice on what would be my most appropriate course of action. Given the many questionable indictments
and misunderstandings involved, it is apparently my option — if not my duty — to respond. If I felt that
the situation called for a full retraction of my “Shame on all of you” editorial (Davidsonian 90/22 (March 30, 1999),
6), you would be reading one as we speak. But this is not a full retraction, and don’t expect one
next week, nor any week after that, for that matter. The remarks I make on this issue here will be
my last. This issue, like all things, had a time to be born, and it has a time to die.

My premier adversaries (Mr. Clifford and Ms. Taylor, whose supporters are numerous) have presented me with a host of accusations,
to which a focused response should not only serve to re-evaluate whereupon the blame lies, but more importantly should help
induce a campus-wide awakening as to exactly how the infamous display came into being.

My opposition’s central complaint, that it was reckless of me to write the editorial without first checking out all the
facts with the proper authorities, has a certain deal of merit. I could have called up members of the Women’s
Issues Committee or of the Photography Club to give me the low-down on the display, but I didn’t; I was
judging based on appearance. It was, after all, an opinion piece and not a news article (this is a mitigating
factor, not an excuse). As a fabled Kentucky journalist once said, “We don’t let facts get in the way of
our editorials.”

I also came under fire for failing to attribute any role in the creation or implementation of the “Skipping Stones”
exhibit to the Davidson Photography Club. The Photo Club was eager to make sure they received credit for this display
— even after I had just finished criticizing it, which I admired. But questions asked of me like, “Did you
wonder perhaps where the pictures came from?” can be answered simply and honestly, “Uh, probably members of the Photography Club.”
I did not realize the extent of the role that they had played in the formation of the exhibit, and
so I apologize to the Photography Club for failing to include them in my berating of their display.

My insinuation that the women chosen for representation in the exhibit were simply hand-picked by Women’s Issues Committee members was
false — not inconceivable, but untrue nonetheless. Neither were they chosen by the Photography Club, nor by anyone associated with
Libertas. In fact — well, as Ms. Taylor enlightened me: “I’m sure you failed to notice the board in Chambers
that allowed students, faculty and staff to nominate women for this exhibit. After all, it was only up for a
MONTH and of course no academic classes are held in Chambers. Unfortunately, you also seem to have missed the voting
in Chambers by the entire student body for the exhibit in October.” (By the way, is this the same sort
of “professionalism” that Mr. Clifford would have me emulate?)

Actually, I did fail to notice said board, and I’m not embarrassed to admit it. I concede that there are
academic classes held in Chambers — I’ve even attended several of them — and I still failed to notice said
board. I entirely missed the voting thing, too. What strikes me most heavily is what a complete moron Ms. Taylor
would have you believe that I am for being so oblivious to said board and this campus-wide vote (in which
the “entire student body” participated). I can make no defense for myself.

Now, here’s the epiphany in the argument. This is the part of the sword fight where you find out that
while Inigo Montoya turns out not to be left-handed, Wesley, the “man in black,” the “bad journalist” (epithet courtesy of
Mr. Clifford), shrouded in journalistic irresponsibility and lack of professionalism, isn’t left-handed either. While my most recent editorial stands as
my most despised piece of writing to date, I have also never received...More praise, positive feedback, support, or compliments for
anything I have ever written. As hard as it may be for many students (especially several Photo Club members) to
believe, some people actually liked my editorial — and some even, dare I say, agreed with me. There is definitely
temptation to disregard any agreement with my viewpoints on the basis that my opinions were based largely in part upon
false assumptions. But after speaking with a great number of students last week, after several angry and/or hurt emails had
informed me as to how the display actually came into being, very few of the students I spoke with claimed
to have ever crossed paths with any such board in Chambers, or even knew of one’s existence. My opponents have
repeatedly emphasized that we all had an opportunity — a month-long one, in fact — to make nominations. It does
not follow logically from this mere fact that the student populace was actually aware of its opportunity to make nominations.
I didn’t know about it, and neither did most of the students that I spoke with. Is that my fault?
If my ignorance makes me a moron, then beware you’re surrounded by morons. And very few of the morons that
I’ve spoken with participated in this alleged (I’m sure it happened, but you couldn’t prove it by me) campus-wide election.
Why did no one but members of the Photography Club and Women’s Issues Committee cry foul? Because hardly anyone else
but them knew any better. Apart from holding my cluelessness (and that of my schoolmates) against me, my opponents’ diatribes
are riddled with a preponderance of lesser, negligible arguments. I have been oft-criticized during the past two weeks for having
claimed that there was merely one varsity athlete represented in the display when, in fact, there were two. Well, one
of the women represented in the display herself pointed out that if cheerleading counts as a varsity sport, there were
actually three varsity athletes represented. See how productive splitting hairs can be? Since I could not afford to run extensive
background checks on all twenty-four students (including the one musician represented, whose musicianship was not mentioned in her bio (which
makes having had a musician in the display seem most incidental)), I had to roll with the information that the
display provided for me. I apologize. But imagine the assumptions I’m tempted to draw now — the only two bona
fide varsity athletes represented = both swimmers; two of the three founding members of the Photography Club = swimmers. Despite
my suspicions, I won’t pretend to be able to prove anything. Next... Nothing is more ludicrous than Mr. Clifford’s contention
(which others share) that I wrote my editorial “hastily.” If you're as interested in gathering correct facts as you seem
to be, then why didn’t you ask Dunwoody how long I spent on my editorial (or me, for that matter)?
He’ll be glad to tell you how carefully I chose my words, and how many hours I kept him up
doing so. How is this assumption any more grievous than mine were? Try to avoid stooping to that same low
level of journalistic integrity that I stand accused of frequenting. (For the sake of serendipity, I shall retract the use
of the word “artsy” from my editorial. I had not realized the severely negative connotations that this word brings with
it. For the record, I said nothing explicitly negative about the photography. I thought the photographs were very well done.)
And what of Ms. Taylor’s contention that I’m upset that my friends weren’t included in the exhibit? Another completely unfounded
and, for that matter, inaccurate claim. You’re looking for excuses to be angry with me now. Splitting hairs over virtually
irrelevant facts and putting “motives” in my mouth, so to speak, are no less reprehensible than the crimes of which
I stand accused. Not to mention that these trivial contentions, which carry basically no weight, undermine the credibility of the
remainder of your arguments. “Biased.” “Not a representative sample.” “Unsystematic.” These are just a few of the ways that other
students have chosen to describe the display. Remember that while I may have had the audacity to put these sentiments
into print — in a “fit of journalistic bravado,” no less — so many of your fellow Davidson students have
been feeling and thinking them just the same, working with the same evidence, drawing the same conclusions. Feel free to
antagonize the rest of them in a like manner, if you still feel so inclined. What I hope that my
adversaries and proponents alike will realize is that my editorial has spawned debate, which is part of what editorials are
supposed to do, and from that debate has arisen a sorely needed mass awakening, for the sake of the Photography
Club, the Women’s Issues Committee, and the campus at large. Now that we’ve broken ground on this issue, the truth
has finally begun to reveal itself. It appears that those in charge of the display were just as clueless about
mass sentiment towards their creation as the rest of us were about the manner of its inception and realization. You
can view my editorial either as a violation of journalistic ethics or as a huge favor, however indirect. It is
your choice entirely. Allowing room... I have decided to lend the space that usually contains my editorial to my Co-Editor
in Chief. In the wake of his editorial from the March 30th issue, I feel that he will need as
much space as he can handle to systematically prove his point and fend off the angry (in addition after seeing
the size of this editorial, I realized there would be very little room for mine). So until next week, I
bid you adieu! Yeo Dunuenaly
