T 22 e. ge S m4

Wildcats impress alumni with Homecoming victory

By Laura DENTON
Staff Writer

The Wildcat football team made for a happy Homecoming Saturday, knocking off the Guilford Quakers 28-21. The ’Cats improved their
record to 2-3 while handing Guilford their first loss of the ’99 campaign. Coming home looking to bounce back after
last week’s loss to Emory & Henry, the ’Cats kept a strong presence throughout the game offensively and defensively.

“We really got up for this game,” praised Coach Landis. “We didn’t realize we’d lost seven straight homecoming games up
until last year. I really used that with the kids to get ‘em fired up, and they responded well.”

The large crowd of alumni and students helped to motivate the players. “Hey, there are recent alumni coming back that
have played with you guys,” Landis told his team. “They helped build what we have here...there was a real reason
to play hard for all our alumni.”

The ’Cats struck first as junior fullback Eric Ferguson dove across the goal line from a yard out, capping off
a 10-play, 45-yard drive. With the touchdown, Ferguson passed Alvin Atkinson ’81 to become the third-leading scorer in Wildcat football
history. Davidson added to Guilford’s woes just a minute later, scooping up a loose ball that was a result of
a botched pitch from Guilford quarterback David Hessler. Senior lineman Rowan Driscoll recovered the football and returned it to Guilford’s
21-yard line before stepping out of bounds. Just two plays later, sophomore Ryan Pagan scampered into the end zone from
eight yards out. Daniel Hanks added his second PAT on the afternoon, and Davidson took a 14-0 lead. Hanks had
a career day, averaging 43-yard punts and completing 4 PATs. Landis showed confidence in the freshman, “As long as we’re
inside 45 yards, we feel real comfortable lining him up.”

Guilford bounced back, however, with a 9-play 81-yard scoring drive of their own. Hessler completed a 21-yard touchdown pass over
the middle to Quaker receiver Nick Lamotta. After exchanging punts, Davidson struck again with three minutes to go in the
first half.

Early matches benefit ’Cats

By SHELLEY CONROY
Staff Writer

While their dual-match season begins in the spring, the Wildcat women’s tennis team arrives on campus in the fall to
train for the tournaments they will play at the start of the calendar year. Wildcat Head Coach Caroline Price, who
begins her 18th season of coaching at Davidson, advised, “There is tremendous depth in the Southern Conference. Six teams have
a chance at the title. We’re a young team, but we will remain in the mix of it.”

The loss of 5 seniors has significantly changed the dynamics of the team for the 1999-2000 season, yet the veteran
coach is enthusiastic about the team’s new chemistry. “From a coach’s perspective, this year is very different from last,” Price
noted. “We’re very young, coming out of the shadow of five seniors. This fall we’re finding our identity and it’s
great watching it unfold.”

Already, the ’Cats have played in tournaments at N.C. State and Virginia Tech. These competitions, in which they face teams
from the Southern Conference, ACC, Atlantic 10, Colonial Conference, and Conference USA, serve a tri-fold purpose. For one, individuals play
to earn their collegiate rankings; secondly, the team gets a sneak preview of the competition it will see in the
spring; and lastly, it’s a chance for the ’Cats to work on strategy and establish what works best for them.

At the N.C. State tournament, sophomores Forbes Thompson and Whitney Boykin each placed 3rd in their respective singles flights. The
sophomores took the lead again at Virginia Tech. Kelly Cantrell won the #4 singles division, and Katie Brooks defeated teammate
Catherine Rainbow to win.the #8 singles division. In doubles, senior Anna Holland teamed with freshman Jasamine Hilu to take 2nd
place in flight 2, and Brooks and Rainbow placed 2nd as well in flight 4. “It was great to have
two good weekends back-to-back. At these tournaments, we’re playing sun up to sun down and that’s valuable for our young
team to gain experience in competition.” Price continued, “It’s great that the girls get to compete, compete, compete. Everything is
so wide open, we’re excited about the possibilities.”

Looking ahead, the ’Cats have two more tournaments this fall. In late October, they travel to the University of South
Carolina, and in November they head to Wake Forest for the Regional Championships.

Senior fullback Eric Ferguson, who entered the ’99 season second on Davidson’s all-time rushing chart, rushed for three touchdowns Saturday.
A 14-yard run from scrimmage by Eric Ferguson. The 51-yard drive extended the Wildcat lead to 21-7. Praising both fullbacks,
Landis commented, “They both did an excellent job.” Guilford landed the last blow of the half on a 44-yard hail
mary to the end zone. Hessler’s pass deflected off of a Wildcat defender into the hands of Quaker receiver Luke
Davis for a miraculous reception. Guilford kicker Luke Southam chipped in the PAT, shrinking the Wildcat lead to 21-14. The
Quakers’ passing game surprised Landis. “A lot of the wide open stuff was fairly new,” he said. “They'd always run
the football pretty efficiently. They obviously had enough respect for our defense to be able to say ‘We’re not going
to be able to run it.’”

Davidson recorded the lone touchdown of the third quarter, capitalizing on a blocked punt by receiver Roland Williams. The senior
from Corpus Christi, Texas, deflected the ball twenty feet into the air and then recovered the ball on the Guilford
13-yard line. “Roland deserves all the credit,” commended Landis. “He was frustrated during the first couple of weeks, but he
just rededicated himself this week to doing more.” On the subsequent play, Ferguson exploded through the Guilford defensive line and
trotted into the end zone for his third touchdown of the afternoon. The ’Cats managed to keep the Quakers in
check for the fourth quarter, maintaining possession for the final minutes of the game. “I am proud of our offense
there,” Landis explained. “In the past, it might just have been one-two-three-and-punt the football. It was the most important thing
that came out of the game.”

Davidson’s next challenge is an away game at Washington & Lee next Friday, which marks the start of a three-game
road trip that includes Georgetown and Randolph-Macon. The ’Cats hope to build on this week’s win and see another victory
next week. “We never like to look ahead,” Landis claimed, “But we talked all week about needing to be 3-3
heading into Georgetown. We feel like that if we play well, we can win.”

Mike Anderson

Wildcats junior RB Jon DeBord is forced out of bounds Saturday.

PLAYER OF THE WEEK

Lady Wildcats soccer standout Ginny Dye scored her 27th goal of her career against Georgia Southern last week. She now
ranks fourth all-time in career points at Davidson.

“In my four years here, that is the most united as a team as we have ever been. Everyone was
willing to do the extra work for each other.” Senior Andrew Holbrook referring to the high level of teamwork utilized
by the Wildcats soccer team in their wins against nationally ranked Clemson and the University of South Carolina earlier this
season. Holbrook and the ’Cats hope to find their way out of a recent slump by relying on that teamwork
which helped elevate the team briefly to a No. 5 national ranking.
