Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Field Hockey captures

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

SALISBURY, N.C. — Davidson’s field hockey squad finished their season this past weekend, capturing the Deep South Field Hockey Association
Tournament and capping off their best campaign since 1994. Highlighted by victories over Virginia Commonwealth, American University, and Stanford, the
Wildcats turned in an 11-7 record, garnering the sixth most wins of any team in the program’s 23-year history.

Head Coach Jen Halliday is in her third year at the helm of the Wildcats’ program. During her own illustrious
career as an All-Atlantic Coast Conference midfielder at Chapel Hill, Halliday and company claimed three ACC titles and finished as
NCAA national runner-ups for four consecutive years.

The Cats opened up the tournament with a 6-1 victory over Catawba College. Despite an overtime loss to Radford University
on Saturday afternoon, Davidson advanced to the conference’s championship game on Sunday. Halliday’s Wildcats scripted the last chapter of their
storybook season with a sound 2-0 victory over Appalachian State, improving their record to 11-7 and capturing the tournament championship.

A final crusade

All seven members of the Class of 2000 were solid contributors to the program, including a trio of four-year starters:
Kate Schoening, Lisa Holthaus, and Kim Ceci. Holthaus led the squad with 24 points entering this weekend’s action, while senior
goalkeeper Nancy Livingston logged five shutouts and recorded over 125 saves this season. Maggie Ferris added great depth to the
Wildcats’ forward line this season, and back Soosan Calhoun was voted the Wildcat Award (for the most spirited member) in
’98. Ceci, the team’s 1998 MVP, has been lauded as perhaps the best sweeper in Davidson history. Finally, back Shana
Byers, a perennial All-Deep South selection, has been an unflagging defender as a three-year starter.

Ceci, Byers, Schoening, and Livingston (along with freshman Alex Rogers) were all named to the All-Tournament team. “That’s quite a
large testimony to the seniors that have provided a lot of great leadership over the course of the year,” applauded
Halliday. “(Those seniors) deserve it,” said junior Lauren Hancock. “They’ve built this team from the start, and all seven of
them have stuck together for four years. It’s awesome to send them off like this.”

Quarter-finals

Davidson defeated Catawba College in the tournament’s quarter-final round on Saturday morning. Featuring an explosive offense and unyielding ball control,
the contest quickly turned into a rout as the ’Cats pulled away early for a 6-1 victory. Freshmen Jessica Barton,
Alex Rogers, and Agnes Bateman provided the first-half firepower, scoring the team’s first three goals. Rogers showed remarkable stick control
and poise, driving downfield and then drifting outside to pull the Lady Indian netminder out of position before pounding a
shot inside the far post. Senior Lisa Holthaus opened the second half with her tenth goal of the season, swelling
the lead to 4-0. The goal gave Holthaus her 51st career point, moving her into sixth place among the Wildcats’
all-time points leaders. Junior Lea Jaeger added her fourth goal of the season, brilliantly deflecting a pass from Lauren Hancock
into the corner of the net.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.goal. The Class of 2003 provided one final knockout punch
when Jennifer Kawwass became the fourth freshman to pitch in a goal in the morning. “The freshmen,” Halliday lauds, “have
done a great job. They’ve stepped up to the challenge of being major contributors in their first season. I’m blessed
with such a freshmen class. They’re all wonderful people, they’re enthusiastic, and they’re intense.”

The victory marked Davidson’s second victory over Catawba this season—but the 6-1 trouncing was even more convincing than the ‘Cats’
3-0 triumph in the season opener. “That reflects just how far we've come. We’ve come a long way. We were
a great team to start, but I think it just shows that we've come together as a team and really
gelled.”

Semi-finals
The Wildcats lost a heartbreaker later that afternoon at the hands of longtime foe, Radford University. Davidson bounced back from
a 1-0 deficit to take a 2-1 lead at the half on goals by Schoening and Cici. But Radford mounted
a comeback of their own, securing a 3-2 advantage with 15 minutes to play. Halliday showed extraordinary audacity, pulling goalkeeper
Nancy Livingston with six full minutes to play. The Cats played the final six ticks with Jaeger, donned in no
goalie equipment other than a mask, as an extra position player and makeshift goalkeeper. The strategy proved brilliant, as Davidson
was able to apply constant pressure on the Radford end of the field. With seconds to go, an infraction by
a Lady Highlander defender resulted in one final opportunity for Davidson—in the form of a corner. By this point, no
time remained on the clock—and all Radford had to do was cover up the ball, or send it out of
bounds to end the game (the contest could not end on a defensive penalty). After a tense fifteen seconds of
fury around the Radford goal, Holthaus sent the ball flying from the fray into the net, forcing an overtime. Unfortunately,
the breathtaking comeback was to little avail, as Radford recovered to score a sudden death goal about six minutes into
the overtime frame. “It was a great game for us, really well-played,” Halliday praised. “(Our girls) dug deep and really
showed us the intensity and the heart that they’ve displayed all season.”

Finals
Due to a scheduling technicality, Radford was prohibited from participating in the championship contest on Sunday. “It was a difficult
three years, but then coming out with a winning record, a great group of girls, and such tremendous camaraderie has
made it so wonderful. I couldn’t be happier.” “We can look back without any regrets,” Calhoun avowed. “It’s a great
way to go out!”

Mike Anderson
Eye on the future
Despite losing invaluable talent and leadership to graduation, Davidson will return an impressive squad in 2000. A remarkable class of
sophomores will make great contributions, with next season’s upperclassmen bringing a great deal of aptitude and experience to the table.
Among the brightest stars in Halliday’s arsenal will be Class of 2003 forwards Alex Rogers and Agnes Bateman. The duo
brings scoring ability and quickness unparalleled for a pair of first-year athletes. “It’s really fun,” smiled Bateman. “From the first
day, the seniors really made us feel at home. They’re awesome players, they’re great friends, and they’re fun to be
around. I’m so excited to start playing again for the spring season, and next year is going to be a
lot of fun.” Perhaps most impressively, Halliday agrees that this year’s senior class will leave behind a legacy of commitment
that will serve this program long after they graduate. “This year’s team has been a great one because of its
attitude,” Halliday proclaimed. “This season is a direct result of the seniors’ effort and the seniors’ focus. When you ask
the underclassmen who they look up to, they all give you a different name. That says a lot.”

Mike Anderson
