THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Tapp BEVAN
Staff Writer

The frustrations of early-season shutout losses to N.C. State and UNC-Charlotte were all but erased on Saturday, as Davidson knocked
off Wofford College by a score of 2-0, giving the Wildcats a key victory in their Southern Conference opener.

Before the game, Head Coach Kevin Hundley warned, “We can’t put ourselves in a hole too early in the season.
This game [Wofford] is a game that we have to win.” And win they did.

Sophomore Carolyn Stumpf scored the first goal of the game and the conference season for the Wildcats in the twelfth
minute of action, on an assist from freshman Mary Ellen Schaefer. Stumpf, a 5’9” sophomore out of Cox High School
in Pensacola, Florida, will be a major contributor for Coach Hundley’s ‘Cats again this year. In her freshman campaign, Stumpf
netted four goals and added three assists to finish second on the team in total points.

Senior Ginny Dye netted the second goal for the Wildcats in the 63rd minute after receiving a pass from freshman
Tara Maloney. With the goal, Dye is tied for third on Davidson’s career goals list.

Junior goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan made two saves, scoring the first solo shutout of her collegiate career. The ‘Cat defense turned
in an impressive performance, allowing Wofford only seven shots on goal.

The win helped the ‘Cats rebound from their 2-0 loss last Wednesday to N.C. State. That contest was scoreless until
sixteen minutes into the second half when the Wolfpack’s Laura Scott scored. Rachel Durr finished off the scoring by beating
Wildcats goalkeeper Chelsey Garrett with seven minutes left.

The ‘Cats return to action on Tuesday, hosting the University of Oregon at 5 PM.

Davidson Sports-Information contributed to this article.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1999

Anna Judy

Football opens season with 40-0 loss to Morehead State

By MIKE ANDERSON
Sports Editor

When the Wildcat football squad departed for Morehead State last Wednesday, they had their eyes on a number of impressive
statistical benchmarks. A win would have extended their winning streak to a record-tying eight games, given the ‘Cats their 350th
program victory, and knocked off the #1 team in Division I-AA non-scholarship football.

Instead, Morehead State’s Eagles rudely acquainted the ‘Cats with another set of facts and figures: the Wildcat offense was shut
out for the first time in 35 games; the defense surrendered more points in one evening than they did in
the final five games of 1998 combined; and Davidson was handed their worst shutout loss in the 1990s.

Almost 7,000 were on hand at Jayne Stadium in Morehead, Kentucky to watch a much-anticipated season opener that pitted perhaps
the nation’s best I-AA-NS offensive force against Davidson’s #4-rated defense. For the first quarter, it looked as if the ‘Cat
defense might indeed prevail—it stymied the Eagles’ offense to but 43 yards and 0 points. Linebacker Kevin Strange and cornerback
Ryan Crawford—both juniors—each pulled down interceptions.

Then Morehead State drew first blood with 11:07 in the second quarter on an 11-yard run from scrimmage and PAT
to take a 7-0 lead. Just four minutes later, Eagle quarterback David Dinkins struck again, tossing a 29-yard touchdown pass
to extend the lead to 14-0. Tim Landis’s ‘Cats headed to half-time down but two touchdowns to the #1-rated Eagles.

“At half-time the score was 14-0, which was tremendous against a team that was averaging 40 points a game. We
had a couple of interceptions, and some big plays,” said Wildcat junior Bo Henderson.

When the teams took to the turf for the second half (this was Davidson’s first contest on artificial turf in
the decade), the ‘Cat defense was unable to hold their ground. Morehead State exploded for three third-quarter touchdowns in less
than seven minutes, extending their lead to 34-0.Before adding a touchdown in the fourth. Meanwhile, the Wildcat offense was unable
to make a similar breakout. The ‘Cats were only able to push the ball into Morehead State territory twice on
the evening—once in each half. The first drive ended at the Eagle 42 with a fumble, the second suffocated on
the 33 with the ‘Cats turning the ball over on downs. Davidson’s split-option attack rushed for only 56 yards—only 72%
of rushing attempts gained positive yardage. “We just didn’t execute on offense,” Head Coach Tim Landis admitted. “Our mistakes put
too much of a burden on the defense to contain perhaps the best offensive weapon (in quarterback David Dinkins) we’ll
go against this year.”

Davidson looks ahead to Saturday’s home opener on newly-renovated Richardson Field against I-AA-NS opponent Jacksonville University. Jacksonville handed the ‘Cats
one of their only two losses last season when the teams met on opening day. The Dolphins went on to
a 4-5 record in their inaugural season. “We're pretty excited about it,” says senior Donnie Johnson. “Everybody is not so
much worried about the loss—we're going to put it behind us and go out and show that we’re a good
team... We’re a bunch of tough guys, we bounce back well. We showed that last year, going 8-2 after starting
off 1-2.”

Billingsley wins invitational, men’s team takes first place

Press RELEASE
Sports Information Dept.

The Davidson College Wildcats women’s cross country team finished second overall at the Hagan Stone Park Invitational. Sophomore captain Lucy
Billingsley won the 5K race in a personal best 19:15. Billingsley took the lead at the mile mark, and then
pulled away from the field, cruising to a 31-second victory over the second-place finisher. The victory was Billingsley’s first collegiate
title. A pair of freshmen, Caroline Bennett and Casey Chiang, finished ninth and 18th respectively. Sophomores Hannah Grimes and Caroline
Little ran strong to round out the top five positions for the Wildcats.

Division I Team Scoring:
1. Winthrop University 39 points
2. Davidson College 65 points
3. High Point University 78 points
4. Radford University 85 points
5. East Carolina University 93 points

Top Wildcat Runners:
1. Lucy Billingsley 19:15
9. Caroline Bennett 20:08
18. Casey Chiang 20:51
25. Hannah Grimes 21:10
29. Caroline Little 21:20

Sports Information Dept.

The Davidson College Wildcats men’s cross country team won the Hagan State Park Invitational in Greensboro, N.C. Saturday morning. Brent
Ferrell finished second overall and first among Division I competitors. Ferrell navigated the 8K course in 26:22, which was a
top ten performance for the course. A trio of seniors, Pat Burchett, William Isenhour, and Steve Johnston trailed Ferrell, finishing
fifth, 16th, and 17th respectively. Sophomore Dan Gibson rounded out the Wildcat top five in 18th place. The Wildcats return
to action in two weeks running in the Wolfpack Invitational hosted by N.C. State.

Division I Team Scoring:
1. Davidson College 44 points
2. East Carolina 59 points
3. Radford 76 points
4. Winthrop 108 points
5. High Point 122 points

Top Wildcat Runners:
2. Brent Ferrell 26:21
5. Pat Burchett 27:25
16. William Isenhour 28:09
17. Steve Johnston 28:20
18. Dan Gibson 28:21

The Wildcats return to action in two weeks running in the Wolfpack Invitational hosted by N.C. State.

Richardson Field Rededication
Saturday, Sept. 11
At half-time of the football game

Lake Norman’s ONLY Raw Bar Is Now Open
Wednesday - College Night. Wings half price with college I.D.
Thursday - Mug Night. $1.00 Domestic Draft 20 oz. and under
3 Big Screen TVs
8 26 in. TVs
NFL Package

Bo Bo Sally’s Raw Bar
Exit 28 off of I-77
Karaoke - Late Night
895-8846
19501 Hwy 73, Cornelius, NC
- Oysters
- Steaks
- Burgers
- Shrimp
- Salads
