Head Volleyball Coach Lisa Marston

By Brian Harbin
Staff Writer

If there was ever a Hollywood script, it is the story of Lisa Marston’s volleyball career. How’s this for a
brief synopsis of the film? A high school soccer star joins the volleyball team on a bet and goes on
to start for the team as a sophomore. She enrolls at UNC-Chapel Hill and walks onto the volleyball squad, eventually
playing four years of ACC volleyball before graduating as a three-year letter winner and joining the coaching ranks.

The rest of the film would be filled with dramatic slow-motion shots punctuated with triumphant music as the volleyball convert
climbs to a head coaching position with Division I Davidson College, revitalizing a team that at one time could only
manage one or two conference victories a year. Then, just before the credits roll, Marston is presented the 1998 Southern
Conference Coach of the Year award. The screen fades to black and thus concludes Part I of the Lisa Marston
story. It’s only the beginning.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Marston’s ’Cats are off to a 7-1 start.

Behind the Scenes

“It was actually off a bet with one of my best friends,” says Marston, recalling her first venture onto the
volleyball court. “I had played soccer my entire life and she [the best friend] had played volleyball. So at the
beginning of our tenth grade year, we bet each other that we couldn’t make the other person’s sport. Well, we
ended up starting by the end of that first year.” And she was hooked.

Marston played the next three years for her high school before moving on to the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, where she joined the team as a walk-on. She graduated in 1992 after lettering three of her four
years on the team. With a degree in education, Marston entered the teaching ranks after graduation, teaching history for a
year at a local high school in Raleigh, NC, before deciding to move on. “It just wasn’t the lifestyle for
me,” says Marston.

Soon, however, she did find a suitable lifestyle in the world of collegiate coaching. In the fall of 1993, Davidson
dangled before Marston the assistant volleyball coaching position, a job that gave her more than she expected. “I decided I
would do it for a year,” explains Marston. “I ended up coming here and absolutely loving coaching and Davidson.”

Before long, Marston had spent a year-and-a-half with the Davidson volleyball program, falling in love with coaching. When the Wildcats’
head coach stepped down, she was the logical choice for an interim head coach, and in 1995 Marston took the
reins of Davidson’s volleyball program.

Plotting a Course

Since taking the helm in ’95, Marston has transformed a once sagging volleyball program. She has a solid 31-31 record
in Southern Conference play, including a 13-5 Southern Conference season last year, good enough to tie them for 2nd place
in the conference.

“Lisa has done a great job,” remarks Davidson Athletic Director Jim Murphy. “It [Wildcat volleyball] has evolved into a top-notch
program over the last few years.”

Of course, the fifth-year head coach did not create a top-ranked volleyball program overnight or without a plan. Marston’s focus
and direction are two of her most valuable assets as a coach. She is determined to make the volleyball experience
a worthwhile endeavor for her players, setting common goals for everyone to achieve. These goals not only bring the team
together by having everyone work toward one particular pennant, but also show her players the program is moving in a
positive direction.

“We always have a sense of team and a sense ofwhere we’re going,” insists Marston. Someone once described a leader
as, “A person who has two qualities. First, he is going somewhere. Secondly, he is able to convince others to
go with him.” Lisa Marston surely fits the bill. Self-described as “very competitive,” the coach hones in with marked passion
on her set goals — and has the fullest of confidence from her fifteen athletes that she will indeed guide
them to a Southern Conference championship.

In just four years Marston has stabilized a Wildcat volleyball program that finished a dismal 7th in the 1994 SoCon
standings. She has become more aggressive in her recruiting efforts, making sure high school players nationwide are aware of Davidson’s
strong volleyball program. She has molded a loosely-bonded group of girls into a very close-knit team, which recently earned itself
a No. 1 preseason ranking. “Since Lisa has become the coach the Davidson program has taken a big, positive turn,”
commented Marston’s colleague Jewel Giesy, head volleyball coach at the College of Charleston. “I think that Davidson is now one
of the teams to beat in the Southern Conference.”

The Sequel

Marston says her favorite part of coaching is making an impact on young people’s lives and helping athletes develop their
potential. The most rewarding moments come when she watches her players perform at their peak, satisfied knowing that she has
been a part of their growth on and off the court. “I am going to push my players,” she says.
“But I do it to help them realize their potential.” Marston's office is peppered with photographs of all those players
she has pushed over the years, and it’s interesting to note that in every picture, the girls are either smiling
or celebrating, or both. They will make wonderful props for Part II of the Lisa Marston story, which remains to
be written, of course. But a No. 1 preseason ranking and a Coach of the Year award indicate that the
pieces are in place for an exciting sequel.

Wildcats off to 7-1 start, brace for Chattanooga on Friday

Press Release Davidson SID

Four Wildcats recorded double-digit performances in kills as Southern Conference Player-of-the-Week, junior Mara Mordini, paced Davidson (5-0) with 14 kills
and 19 digs in a 15-13, 15-6, 15-6 win over Charleston Southern.

Mike Anderson

Freshman Kaitlyn Martin has been a key contributor in the preseason. Sophomores Jennifer Ortega and Katie Middendorf and senior Gina
Lawrence each hammered 10 kills for the Wildcats. Sophomore Erica Schwartz ran the offense with 37 assists in the opening
round of the four-match tournament at Georgia State.

The Wildcats (5-1) met their match in the second game of the tournament as the Idaho Vandals handed them their
first loss of the year, 15-7, 15-4, 15-12. Regan Butler buried 14 kills in 27 attacks, and Heather Kniss posted
a 12-kill, 19-dig performance for the Vandals. Senior Gina Lawrence registered 12 kills to lead the ’Cats, and junior Mara
Mordini finished with 11 kills and 10 digs. Ginny Quis tallied 34 assists. Idaho held Davidson to 12.8 percent hitting
and well below their season average of 12.4 points per game. The ’Cats had never scored less than 10 points
in a game prior to Friday.

Davidson continued play in the Georgia State Tournament on Saturday, knocking off Georgia State and Winthrop, improving their season record
to 7-1. The ’Cats have their toughest test yet on Friday night, when they host Chattanooga at Belk Arena. Chattanooga
finished a close second to Davidson in the preseason coach’s poll.

Mike Anderson

Davidson celebrates their season-opening victory at UNC-Charlotte. What a special section!
