I sing of arms and of a hat: his fate

Had made him fugitive; he was the first

To journey from the room of Andrew as far

As the Well and the perimeters of Davidson.
Across the lands and pathways he was battered
Beneath the violence of the Winter Storms, for
The savage Shadow’s unforgetting stupidity;
And many sufferings were his in traveling—
Until he was found and saved

And carried home to his owner;

From this have come the legends, the snowman
Of winter, and the faith of the high Honor Code.

So, the Snowman cameth and he wenteth. Through the destruction of the Snowman
began a new journey. An adventure of epic proportions: the travels of the Top Hat.
It all began one snowy afternoon many weeks long past. The year was new and it brought
fresh hopes, dreams, and snow to Davidson. With the snow came revelers and with the
revelers came the Snowman. Constructed through many arduous hours of slave labor, this
edifice was to stand for all eternity (or at least the night) as a reminder of the carefree days
long since past. But, the Fates intervened. Within decades (hours, really) of the completion
of this monolith came a great plague of inconsiderateness and with it came the Shadow. His
identity is not known to this day; however, his deeds are infamous. Every child is told of his
actions, every schoolgirl sings jump rope songs about the Shadow. Who knows what evil
lurks in the hearts of men, the Shadow knows...

The Shadow left that poor, bedraggled Snowman in pieces amongst the matted snow
and grass. He left that unfortunate soul scattered on the cold hard earth, not buried and not
for rest. But, the Shadow did not stop his path of pain there. No, he continued full steam
ahead as he grabbed the Top Hat from the ground and raced off like a Wake Forest fan
leaving the Belk Arena. Where did the Top Hat travel from there? Well, deciphering its
exact path is akin to translating ancient Egyptian bathroom humor, but I shall give it a shot.
The Top Hat’s journey began, as it was tossed casually aside on Main Street. It then was
kicked up by an 18-wheeler that passed over it and landed in the back of a gardener’s pick
up truck. He didn’t make it far before Bette Midler, who was picking up litter on the side
of the road, assailed the truck after the gardener threw a can out of his window. His littering
days were numbered as she chased the truck down and returned the can. He was soon flying
off a cliff in that truck. The Top Hat lay there and reminisced about its long life.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

mourned. The ghost of Snowman still lingers in the Underworld, searching for a purpose.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000

Upper Classmen

Favor Freshman Franchise

“What do you think of giving freshmen a vote in student body
elections, with the provision that two freshman
votes equal that of one upperclassman?”

As one of its objectives this year Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa has undertaken
the restoration of the freshman franchise under the above condition, that the freshman ballot
be valued at half of that of the three upper classes.

In an effort to discover student body opinion on this matter, members of the circle
approached a number of students selected at random from the Junior and Senior classes and
requested an answer to the question stated in our lead paragraph.

From the Editor: a
salute to Foster Haselden

As I sat in my seat at SGA on Tuesday
night, I felt privileged even to be in the same
room as Foster Haselden.

Foster’s hands shook and his eyes welled
with tears as he delivered a stirring farewell
address to the senate. He spoke with an
inspiring

eloquence, pride, and passion. He spoke
with the words of a man who had invested his
life in something.

I only got to know Foster a year ago this
month. But over these past two semesters, I
have been continuously encouraged by his
intense sense of duty and honor, by his fun-
loving essence, and by his drive to enrich
Davidson College.

For the past three and a half years, Foster
Haselden has done just that...embodying
Churchill’s famous quotation by giving
"blood, sweat, toil, and tears" to a cause that
he believed in more than anyone. And the
Student Government Association—not to
mention the student body at large—is better
because of it.

Foster Haselden’s name will forever be
synonymous with the commitment he made
to Davidson College, and with the pride he
holds for this institution.

Near the end of his address, Haselden
stammered, "Be proud of this SGA, and of
this school. My father always tells me that
‘Pride matters.’" The Senate responded with
a thunderous, lasting, standing ovation for
the retiring president.

Over the three-plus semesters I have
spent at Davidson, I never felt such pride in
this school as I did at that moment. And I
thank Foster for
sharing it with me.

Mike Anderson

SGA VICE PRESIDENT
Joey Harris

UNION BOARD V.P. - CO-CURRICULAR
Will Parker

UNION BOARD V.P. - SOCIAL CHAIR
Eric Arnold

ATC VICE CHAIRMAN
Randy Skattum

STUDENT CONDUCT COUNCIL
Liz Hoekstra, Grant Lovellette

Election Results
SGA PRESIDENT

Dane Erickson

UNION BOARD PRESIDENT
Kirk Willingham

STUDENT SOLICITORS
Shaheen Counts & Eric Arnold

TRUSTEE COMMITTEES

ACADEMIC & EDUCATIONAL POLICY
Joey Harris
ADMISSIONS & FINANCIAL AID
Christopher Brantley
BUILDINGS & GROUNDS
Mark Cody
COLLEGE RELATIONS
Lee Ann Petty
ATHLETIC POLICY
Kimberly Taylor
FINANCE & BUDGET
Andrew J. Nash Webber

COUNCIL ON CAMPUS & RELIGIOUS LIFE
Matthew Moretz, Cameron Richardson, Lauren
Urbanski, Matt West

REVIEW BOARD
Sanjana Karim

DEFENSE ADVISORS
Travis Martz & Eric Arnold

INDEPENDENT SENATOR
JT Tolentino
