THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Joy Gerpy AND Matt Peaks
Staff Writers

As the election grows nearer, the (Other) Zogby Poll completely ignores what others might consider the “hard-hitting issues.” We instead
choose to write about what we know best: Saved By The Bell. We asked Davidson students which Saved By The
Bell character would best represent them as the next president of the United States. Despite preconceptions about high school presidential
elections, our poll showed that, at least at Bayside, popularity is not the decisive factor in politics. Our poll showed
that Davidson students throw their support in widely diverse directions.

Whom did they vote for, you ask? Not surprisingly, the majority of the votes rested with the six main characters
(not including the talented Mr. Belding, who received no votes and is arguably the main character). The support for the
six main characters comprised 73% of the popular vote.

Zack “Preppie” Morris, an obvious favorite from the outset, received only 19% of the vote, finishing second. Alexis Boehmler ’02
campaigned hard for her candidate, saying, “Zack could be the best president we’ve ever had.” While voters certainly appreciate Mr.
Morris’ innovative ideas and fascinating ability to “Time-out” any situation and speak directly to the viewers at home, such talents
weren’t enough to win over the campus at large. Early on, political pundits expressed concern that Mr. Morris’ penchant for
mischief would get him into trouble with the voters, who have not yet forgotten “Potatogate,” as it is widely known,
an incident in which Mr. Morris took other students’ money and invested it in potato stock, which later plummeted. Perhaps
this incident is the reason why Mr. Morris’ childhood friend received more votes.

Although Jessie Spano (a.k.a. “Legs” a.k.a. “Mama”) grew up next door to Zack Morris, she did not step into the
limelight until the high school years. Despite her relatively recent appearance on the show, Ms. Spano has succeeded in squeezing
out enough votes to win the election. This fact is not all that surprising considering she is by far the
most politically minded student at Bayside. Aileen Waters ’02 voted for Ms. Spano because she is “intelligent... and responsible.” Xander
Morsink ’02 pointed out that sometimes she seems to be “the only one who gets any good work done over
there [at Bayside].” Ms. Spano did only receive 25% of the vote, however. Perhaps this close race was the result
of Ms. Spano’s former addiction to caffeine pills. Also, more than one reliable source has claimed to have sighted Ms.
Spano at the Stardust in Las Vegas, Nevada working as a showgirl under the name “Nomi Malone.” Surely this spotty
past affected the voters’ view of Bayside’s salutatorian.

Samuel “Screech” Powers a.k.a. “the dork who gets to hang out with the cool kids” did not receive as much
of the vote as was expected. Considering his superior intelligence, evident in the success with his creation of Artificial Intelligence,
for example, Bayside’s valedictorian only received 10% of the vote, placing him fifth. Unfortunately for everyone involved, because he did
not win the election, he will be forced to continue with his old job as Mr. Belding’s assistant on Saved
By The Bell: The New Class. We look back with joy on the days when he played an extra in
Big Top Pee-Wee.

Both Lisa “Token Minority” Turtle and Albert Clifford “Brillohead” Slater a.k.a. “Pig” each received 13% of the vote. Pryor Dawson
’04 called Ms. Turtle “aggressive” and was quick to point out that she is not afraid to speak her mind.
Ms. Turtle was a gossip columnist and therefore has always kept up on current events. This “hobby” certainly helped her
with the voters. Mr. “A.C.” Slater had a surprisingly large number of votes considering he is an idiot. More than
one voter chose Mr. Slater because of his fashion sense, citing both “pleated, acid-washed jeans” and tank tops as the
central factor in their decision. Another voter said that Mr. Slater would be capable of “chiseling the country into one
big pectoral muscle.” Mr. Slater’s support can be attributed to the fact that he has stayed in the public eye
as a cover model for a muscle magazine your esteemed pollsters once saw in Harris Teeter.character received a measly 3%
of the vote. Kelly “All-American Girl” Kapowski received the majority of these votes because she is “hhhhhhhot.” Interestingly enough, around
the same time that Ms. Spano was sighted as “Nomi Malone,” Ms. Kapowski was driven to move in with her
cousin Brandon Walsh in Beverly Hills where she was known as “Valerie Malone.” Conspiracy theories are still being considered as
possible explanations of this amazing coincidence. Other characters who received 3% of the votes included the enigmatic Max, of The
Max, Nikki, who mysteriously disappeared after eighth grade, presumably living somewhere under the name “Malone,” James, the witty actor/waiter who
helped the gang out of many a jam, and the obligatory cliché group of nerds. A dark horse candidate, Miss
Bliss received 6% of the Davidson College students’ support. She is perhaps best known as the junior high school teacher
who was responsible for putting an end to Potatogate with appropriately TV-teacheresque punishments for all involved. Christopher Brantley ’01 justified
his vote by saying that it is about time we had a woman as president. He did, however, run into
difficulty with the fact that she is British. You may have noticed that our percentages add up to 101%. What’s
your point? The (Other) Zogby Poll would like to express its excitement at the fact that this poll did not
become simply a popularity contest. While Jessie Spano is in no way one of the nerds, she is far from
holding the popularity status of a Zack Morris or a Kelly Kapowski. Upon hearing the news of winning the poll,
Ms. Spano reportedly cried, “I’m so excited! I’m so excited! I’m so...scared!” Have no fear, Jessie! Davidson is behind you!

We here at the (Other) Zogby Poll feel that it is important to realize that Saved By the Bell can
be related to most any situation. As one Mary-Margaret Zogby once said on the occasion of her sister’s wedding (at
which Sarah Jessica Parker was present), “This whole situation reminds me of a Saved By The Bell episode. You know
the one? Where Zack got into some mischief and things got out of control, but in the end Kelly and
the gang came through and everything was okay?” Yeah Mare, we know the one.

Ms. Brownlow ’03 and Ms. Padget ’01 would like it to be known that J.R.R. Tolkien uses the “number” seven
in The Lord of the Rings. We here at the (Other) Zogby Poll still feel that this only serves to
reinforce the fact that eleventy is fictitious. However, they asked us to point it out anyway.

Listen to WALT 1610 from 9-10pm on Sundays to respond to the next (Other) Zogby Poll Question.

The Student Health Advisors are, from left to right: Stephanie, Rehelea Moore, Julia Puporr

“To have an eating disorder is to have a disease of the self-esteem, and to have a broken coping mechanism.
Eating Disorders are about being addicted to a behavior that makes it easy to temporarily forget problems and feelings of
depression and self-hate, stress and anxiety, guilt and pressure. Just like alcohol is a symptom of alcoholism, food is a
symptom of Anorexia, Bulimia, or Compulsive Overeating. The real issues are hidden away in the victim’s heart and mind.”

When you take a look at the Davidson College Community, there are a lot of amazing people doing too many
things with too little time. Such conditions make for a campus of opportunity galore, yet for many...

1. Do you keep your feelings inside for fear of being judged negatively or do you feel like talking to
others about your problems is a burden?
2. Are you considered the “rock” for everyone else’s problems when you never seem to talk much about your own?
3. Do you disparage your own pain and emotions and think of everyone else’s feelings first?
4. Do you ever have a “voice inside your head” that tells you negative things about yourself, or that you
are undeserving of happiness?
5. Do you starve, binge and purge, eat, or over-exercise when you are having a hard time with things?
6. Do you ever drink a lot of water...
