THE DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

Marston departs for UNC Charlotte post
By Buracin Hardin
Sports Editor

When Davidson volleyball hosts UNC Charlotte in October, Lisa Marston will be on the sideline, of course—but it won’t be Davidson’s. The coach who led the red & black attack on an imposing 20-0 run through the 1999 Southern Conference has left to head the volleyball program at UNC Charlotte, a school ten times the size of Davidson that boasts a fully-funded volleyball program.

“I feel like at this time in my life this is a good career move for me,” Marston said, “and I feel confident about that. I feel good about the potential at UNCC and I feel good about what I’ve done here.”

Mike Anderson
Marston’s 85-79 overall career record at Davidson included an undefeated ‘99 Southern Conference campaign. And indeed she should. The two-time Southern Conference Coach of the Year compiled an 85-79 overall record in her five years at Davidson, including a 51-31 conference record. Marston’s first year, 1995, saw her squad finish a dismal seventh in the conference, but since then the Wildcat Express has stormed through the SoCon rankings, finishing sixth, then third, then tied for second, then finally an undefeated first place finish in ‘99.

“She put in an incredible amount of work and the success she’s had is amazing,” senior Gina Lawrence said. The Wildcats’ NCAA tournament contest against powerhouse Nebraska marked the first NCAA tournament appearance for any Davidson women’s team, and the loss to the Cornhuskers didn’t upset the Wildcats—they were thankful for the opportunity.

“I’m really proud of just making it to the national tournament,” Lawrence said after the game. But stats are just numbers on a page and trophies are shiny things that impress visitors. For Marston, her best memories will be of her players.

“It would be easy to say that the conference championship or the night when we found out we were going to be undefeated [will be the greatest memories]. Those were great moments, of course, but the best memories I'll have will be of the time I spent with the girls.”

It’s no accident that the Wildcat team members have a very close relationship with each other as well as their coaching staff. “I think that’s why we were so successful—we cared enough about each other to work hard for each other,” Marston said. Marston has stressed togetherness and team-

Uhernik out for season
By Mike Anderson
Editor-in-Chief

In October of 1998, a wide-eyed and glowing John Filar promised great things from a 5-10 freshman forward out of Freedom, Pennsylvania. “Leah Uhernik is going to be a huge asset to this program,” Davidson’s head coach praised. “Our fans are really going to thoroughly enjoy how she plays.”

As fate would have it, none of us have been given that opportunity yet. Her first two seasons were supposed to be marked by spectacular rebounding, an uncanny knack for creating scoring opportunities, and eventually a major role in the starting lineup. Instead, the story thus far of this seemingly star-crossed sophomore has been an endless litany of crutches, ice bags, and ibuprofen.

The latest chapter in this saga of frustration and unfulfilled potential came Jan. 10, when Uhernik suffered the third torn ACL of her career. “It just happened so fast, I knew as soon as I landed,” Uhernik recalled. “My knee hurt, but I was more heartbroken than anything.”

The injury occurred in the midst of a fierce battle against UNC Greensboro, one of the league's most physical opponents. “I went up for this rebound, but as I was landing I was twisted funny. On my way down, my leg bumped one of their players and I landed awkwardly.”

Head coach John Filar was visibly distraught. “As disappointed as we are, I can’t imagine the disappointment she must feel. I’ve never had an athlete endure what Leah has had to go through in terms of injuries.”

Uhernik entered this season with renewed expectations after a frustrating, injury-plagued freshman campaign. The forward spent last year’s pre-season workouts on the sideline recovering from another torn ACL. After seven months away from the game, Uhernik was forced to play catch-up during her first few weeks in Wildcat red & black. But she found her touch quickly. In the first two weeks of 1999, she averaged 7 points and 6 rebounds per game off the bench. Uhernik showed flashes of brilliance against some of the league’s best competition, chipping in a combined points and 18 rebounds in the regular season’s two contests against the conference’s top-rated team, UNC-Greensboro.

Shortly thereafter, a fractured rib sent the Freedom Area High School product back to the starting blocks. Playing with excruciating pain, Uhernik didn’t record another point or rebound until the Southern Conference Tournament championship game. Asked if she would describe her freshman season as disappointing, Uhernik answered: “Disappointing? Try disastrous.”

But 1999-2000 was supposed to be different. The Pennsylvania native was expected to return to the Wildcats’ starting lineup, bringing a nearly unparalleled level of athleticism and versatility. “Leah is one of the biggest unknowns to people,” Filar explained just before the start of this year’s campaign. “She has the ability to create a lot of mismatches on the court. She’s a 3-point threat, she’s a slasher. She knows, and her teammates know, that no one has seen the real Leah. I know the things that she’s capable of, hopefully this year she'll have the opportunity to show it.”

In the early going, Uhernik was slowed by a string of nagging injuries, including a joint injury in her foot and continuing shin splints. Nevertheless, she managed to play 25 minutes per game and was among the team’s best with 6.3 points and 4.2 rebounds per game before being sidelined by her most recent clash with fortune.

As her teammates continue their journey towards Greenville this season, Uhernik will embark on an entirely different and all-too-familiar journey. She is slated for surgery today and will begin the agonizing six-month recovery and rehabilitation process. “I just want to be able to contribute to this team,” a frustrated Uhernik said. “Jen O’Brien is the best player I have ever played with, and I'll neverget to play with her again. It’s just so hard to accept.” Through it all, No. 25 has proven indomitable. “There’s no way I’m going to go out like this,” she proclaims with unwavering resolve. “My coaches and my teammates are counting on me, and I want to prove myself and contribute to the team. There’s no way I’m going to leave here without anybody seeing the true Leah Uhernik play.”

John Filar couldn’t agree more. “I have no doubt that she'll come back better than ever. Because that’s the kind of player, and that’s the kind of person, Leah Uhernik is.”

From the very beginning, planning trips and training activities fostered team bonding. The players’ respect and care for their teammates and coaches transcends the volleyball court and undoubtedly will help ensure success in the post-Marston era. “Our strength and cohesion will work to our advantage during this transition,” sophomore setter Erica Schwartz commented.

Marston said repeatedly that the one drawback to taking the UNCC job would be leaving her players. “They are just wonderful, wonderful girls who have given me everything they could have given me,” Marston praised. “I have thoroughly enjoyed every minute of it. The thought of leaving the girls was the one thing that kept me saying, ‘I don’t want to leave, I don’t want to leave.’”

“It’s upsetting, but I do understand,” Schwartz said. “We understand this is a good move for her.”

At UNCC, Marston will have twelve scholarships at her disposal compared to the 1.5 that Davidson’s resources afforded her. Playing the likes of Cincinnati, DePaul, and Marquette means more national exposure, also. “The athletic department has put the resources and energy into making that program a premier women’s sport at Charlotte,” Marston commended. “She brings impressive credentials to our program,” UNCC’s Athletic Director Judy Rose said at the announcement. “She knows what it takes for a team to be successful, which is the type of program we want. We are excited to have her.”

Marston inherits a 49er team that went 13-17 overall last season and won a school record seven Conference USA matches. Patty Dennison, the 49ers former coach, resigned Jan. 8 for personal reasons. Davidson will now begin a search for a coach of its own, which Athletic Director Jim Murphy believes could take up to two months. The department is conducting an open search through the NCAA News and the AVCA, the American Volleyball Coaches Association.

“I feel positive about where our program is and the strength of the program will help us attract a new coach,” Murphy commented. “I want [the players] to know that the department is very dedicated to them, dedicated to their success, and dedicated to finding a well-qualified person to come in,” Marston added. But it won't be easy. Lawrence said, “It’s going to be hard to fill her shoes just because she loves Davidson and the people of Davidson.”

ROOMMATE WANTED
2BR, 2 BA WF condo. $400 + utilities/month/person. No smokers/pets. Credit check/deposit required. Call Stacy 892-7373 or 655-9259.

Ben T. Craig
Ben Craig played his last football game at Davidson in 1953, but his contributions to the school and the community have endured for nearly five decades. He was an outstanding tackle in football from 1950 through 1953, and a successful business leader as President of First Union Corporation. Craig also was a member of the Davidson Board of Trustees (1973-88), serving as Chairman from 1985 until his death in 1988. In 1987, Craig received the first James P. Hendrix Award, presented to a former Davidson football player whose success after college can be attributed to the lessons learned on the football field. Craig and his wife, now Jane Craig Hanes, who currently serves on the college’s Board of Visitors, are the parents of Cathy, Sally ’81, and Chip '86.

Homer A. Smith
Homer Smith didn’t attend Davidson, but his accomplishments as the Wildcats' football coach from 1965 to 1969 are still remembered. He was an All-East tailback at Princeton (class of ’53). As Davidson’s football coach, he was regarded as an offensive genius, and his teams consistently ranked among the nation’s leaders in passing. In 1969, he guided the Wildcats to their only Southern Conference championship and a berth in the Tangerine (now Citrus) Bowl. Coach Smith retired from coaching after the 1997 season. He and his wife Kathy have two children, Kim and Cari.

Hall of Fame Welcomes Class of 2000
During the halftime of the Jan. 22 men’s basketball game against VMI, four new inductees to the Davidson Athletics Hall of Fame were recognized for their outstanding contributions to Wildcat athletics. The Carl and Louise Knobloch Tennis Center hosted the official induction ceremonies earlier in the afternoon.

Richard E. Lyon ’71
Rick Lyon still shares the school’s 200-meter record. He ran a leg on the 1969 team that won the Southern Conference 440-yard relay championship and he was the conference 220-yard champ in 1971. In football, Lyon was an outstanding receiver who set a single-game record with 248 receiving yards when he caught 13 passes against Bucknell. Lyon also achieved in the classroom, ranking 13th in his class and earning an NCAA postgraduate scholarship. Currently an emergency room physician, Lyon resides in Florida with his wife Joanne and their children, Jamie and Carolyn.

Julius “Jake” Wade, Jr. ’50
Jake Wade intercepted four passes and returned one of them 94 yards for the decisive touchdown in a 20-14 win over N.C. State that took place 50 years ago at Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium. If the Wildcats held a play-of-the-century contest, Wade’s interception would be at the top of the list. Wade also played second base for the Wildcat baseball squad. Baseball has remained one of his passions and he has coached in Charlotte’s Myers Park Trinity League for the past 42 years. One of the league’s fields is named in his honor. An attorney, Wade resides in Charlotte with his wife Sara. He has three children, Jimmy, Jay ’79, and Amelia.