Snow alters series at ASU

By Rick BENDER
Davidson S.I.D.

BOONE—Davidson split a Southern Conference baseball doubleheader with Appalachian State Sunday afternoon at Red Lackey Field in Boone, N.C. Davidson (21-18, 12-11) won the first game, 10-5, and Appalachian won the nightcap, 8-3, in a game called after five and a half innings due to darkness.

In the first game, Davidson jumped out to a 5-0 lead after three innings and never trailed. The Mountaineers cut the lead to 5-3 after scoring three runs in the bottom of the fifth inning, but could get no closer. The win was Davidson head coach Dick Cooke’s 200th career coaching victory.

Derrik Wolpert (2-2) picked up the win for the Wildcats, pitching 2-2/3 innings of relief. Mark Wells earned his third save of the season. Stewart Sloan was 4-for-4 with four RBIs to lead Davidson, while Tim Frend and Cassidy Lundin each had three hits for the Wildcats.

Ben Hager (2-8) took the loss for the Mountaineers. Wes Timmons had three hits to lead ASU and Jason Howell added a two-run home run in the bottom of the eighth inning.

The second game, originally scheduled for seven innings, was called after Davidson batted in the top of the sixth inning due to darkness. The doubleheader was one hour and 11 minutes late getting started after an overnight snowstorm blanketed the area. Saturday’s doubleheader was canceled due to the inclement weather.

Appalachian took the lead for good with three runs in the bottom of the second inning, highlighted by a two-run single by Timmons. ASU closed out the scoring with a pair of runs in the bottom of the fifth inning.

Tyson Blocker (2-4) scattered seven hits over six innings, picking up the complete-game victory, his second of the season. Chris Behne was 3-for-3 for the Mountaineers and Howell added an RBI double and solo home run in the win.

Jamie McDonald (2-4) took the loss for the Wildcats. Ryan Stroker and Matt Berry each had a pair of hits in the loss.

The Wildcats will have next weekend off from conference action. This week, Davidson will host Duke Wednesday at 3:00 p.m., then travel to Winthrop Thursday for a 3:00 p.m. game as well.

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.I.D.

Jack Purcell bunted for a hit to drive in the winning run with two outs in the bottom of the ninth and make Davidson a winner over visiting Winthrop, 15-14. It was the Wildcats’ 20th win of the season, making it only the first time since 1994 that the Wildcats have reached 20 wins in a season.

Tied at 14, Cassidy Lundin started the bottom of the ninth for Davidson by drawing a walk from reliever Jason Colson (1-2). A failed bunt attempt forced Lundin at second, and another fielder’s choice left a runner on first and two outs.

But Ryan Stroker grounded a 2-2 slider through the right side to put runners on the corners. Purcell didn’t waste any time, bunting the first pitch he saw down the third-base line. Colson made a tremendous throw, but it was just a split-second too late.

Tim Frend (2-2), the sixth Wildcat pitcher, entered the game in the ninth with a runner on first and nobody out. He got two quick outs, but John Neale stole second and went to third as the pitch went to the backstop. Frend was able to maintain his composure and retire Todd Leathers on a grounder to third.

Davidson had leads of 8-1 after four innings, and 9-3 after five. In the sixth, the Eagles erupted for six runs to tie the game. After the Wildcats tallied another run in the bottom half, Winthrop put five more on the board in the seventh to take a 14-10 lead. After the first two batters were retired in the last of the seventh, Davidson managed to score three unearned runs.

Sloan was the hitting star of the day, going 5-for-6 with seven RBIs, both career highs. He drilled a three-run homer in the fourth, plus had two doubles on the afternoon.

Going To Be In Atlanta This Summer?

Oglethorpe’s short summer schedule allows you to get the courses you need and still have time for a summer job and/or vacation.

Get AHEAD, EARN SOME BREAD, VISIT BUCKHEAD.

OGLETHORPE

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 1-800-428-4484
WWW.OGLETHORPE.EDU

Anthology

Main Street Books
O’Charley’s
California Juice Co.
Paramount’s Carowinds
Dean & Deluca
Summit Coffee & Tea
Bellacino’s Pizza and Grinders
Ferrucci’s Old Tyme Italian Market

A big thank you to all who participated in this year’s Annual Fund Spring Phonathon and to all the sponsors! You helped us raise over $50,000!

For raising the most money, the winning halls are:

1st place — First Akers.
2nd place — Third Richardson.
3rd place — Fourth Belk

and a round of applause to Second Little for the highest participation!

Pizza generously donated by:

Buck’s Pizza

Prizes graciously provided by:

Kudzu on South Broad
Bagel Bin
Ben & Jerry’s
Harris Teeter
Buttery & Beanery
Olé Olé
Hops
Davidson Depot
The Original Pancake House
Providence Café
Rosetti’s Italian Restaurant
Earful Audio Books
Fuddrucker’s
El Cancun
Zapata’s Cantina Mexican Restaurant
Fuel Pizza Café
Wolfman Pizza