2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Flag from page 1.

ment as a way to move away from the status quo. “We felt that as students, we could unite ourselves and cause change.”

“Students are at a point in their lives where they can think about where they are and what kind of society they want to live in,” Erickson elaborated. “And that gives them power.” The student body president hopes that this idealism and drive will push the process of change along. To this end, he started a committee to discuss what options were available. Committee member Kevin Epps recalled, “He started it with the idea of exploring the options on what Davidson could do towards flag removal or other plans.”

Their first action was to try and garner the support of other schools. College of Charleston was the first contact and has proven to be a very enthusiastic partner in this effort. In fact, Erickson noted that their SGA had already passed a similar resolution. It also favored “relocation” of the flag. After discussing this issue with Angela Kouters, SGA president at College of Charleston, she and Erickson agreed to seek active involvement from all Southern Conference schools. They are pressing all student representative groups to pass resolutions in the same spirit. Erickson and Kouters each took half of the conference and have been trying to convince other schools to cooperate in this venture. Kouters focused on the South Carolina schools and Georgia Southern, while Erickson has targeted the rest of the Southern Conference. Of the reaction, he noted, “Some schools are excited, while others are interested but a bit more cautious.”

The split on the issue of the Confederate Flag runs deep. In particular, students disagree about what role—if any—Davidson should play. Many on the committee assert that Davidson has a vested interest in bringing down the flag. McCandlish agreed that the flag’s influence extends beyond the South Carolina border. She noted in particular the large numbers of Davidson students who hail from South Carolina. Others are more hesitant to take such a strong stand. Senator Will Fortune emphasized that it is important to go about this with the right motivations. He agreed that it is an important issue, but warned against “doing anything bandwagon-ish or simply to get media attention.” Some senators voiced concerns about whether the flag initiative is truly of concern to the student body at Davidson. Senator Whitney Frazier doubted if “this is what the campus wants or needs right now.”

Beyond the bubble. This situation also touches on many broader issues. Opponents of the flag point to the historical context in which it was first used. The battle flag was first displayed on the State House in 1962 during a time of great social upheaval and racial tension.

In a Libertas article printed on January 27, Aaron Houck wrote, “South Carolina’s decision to fly the Confederate flag over the state capitol in the early 1960s as a silent protest to the movements of integration shows the obvious tie of this particular display of the symbol to animosity towards racial rapprochement.” Fortune agreed, “No one can deny that the flag was put up at that time for racial reasons.” In addition, the flag used is the Confederate Battle Flag and not the actual Flag of the Confederacy. Some assert that this choice was intended to be more incendiary. Nevertheless, many defend the flag as an appropriate and respectful affirmation of Southern heritage.

Smoking from page 1.

room, only 47% favored a universal ban on smoking in the residence halls. Members of the SGA then debated among the various plans presented. The option of retaining the standing policy was eliminated quickly, and the “smoking floor” proposal was dispensed of shortly thereafter. The SGA was then faced with the options of supporting the abolition of smoking in all dormitories, or the creation of a smoke-free residence hall or halls. Those in favor of banning smoking in all residence halls noted that barely over five percent of students report smoking in their rooms. They argued that the health and environmental rights of 95% of the campus should outweigh the “right to smoke” exercised by a slender minority.

In support of the smoking minority, some argued that the prohibition of smoking in the residence halls would serve to alienate students that smoke. “Smoking is a personal choice, just like other personal habits,” stated Brent Wilson. Dean Kurt Holmes of the Residence Life Office made an “educated guess” that “the majority of schools (across the country) currently do not have a ban on smoking, but more and more seem to be going that way.” Despite such trends, an overwhelming majority of senators felt that a universal ban on smoking would not yet be acceptable for Davidson College. Most of the SGA representatives present agreed that the establishment of smoke-free residence halls was the most attractive option. The immediate subsequent issue was that of determining which residence hall would be smoke-free. Dean Holmes said that the additional “smoke” factor would further complicate the tricky process of balancing the residence halls, but that his office would gladly answer the student demand. The office already undergoes a protracted number-crunching process, taking into account gender, class, geography, and amenities, he explained. He solicited student input, asking that students submit suggestions for the smoke-free building to him via e-mail. “I want this decided before Friday,” he stated firmly. “People need to know of changes early so that they can make informed decisions (before lottery).”heritage. As such, it has more to do with culture than with racism. Explained Houck, “They argue that the exhibition of the Confederate flag is about honoring their ancestors who fought and died for a cause - a cause larger than the issue of slavery.” More generally, some feel that South Carolina’s decision to fly the flag is based on certain fundamental rights. Specifically, they assert that the flag was adopted by the state legislature, which is the only body with legitimate authority to determine that. Senator Jesse Smallwood commented, “There are lots of connections between Davidson and South Carolina, and we do have a right to voice our opinion... Still, in the end, it’s South Carolina’s decision.”

Bracing for impact. THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

All involved knew beforehand that this would be a controversial and emotional issue. Noted Epps, “This is the kind of issue where both sides are offended by the other’s opinion. We run the risk of dividing the student body.” Erickson recognized this and assured that before any action is taken, “We're going to get as many opinions as we can.” Students will have another chance to voice their opinions at a forum on April 5. The SGA sees this as an important opportunity to gather student input. Senator Allison expressed a desire to use this forum as a means to generate student support for the cause, “Our next big hurdle is to get the student body involved, to get them fired up.” At the forum, students will be presented with a list of options. Some suggestions include a march on Columbia, a letter-writing campaign to politicians and/or Davidson alumni in South Carolina, and sending representatives to address the state legislature. Epps also speculated about the possibility of a substitution. He suggested that the students come out in support of replacing the Battle Flag with the less frequently used and more benign Flag of the Confederacy. Erickson expressed the hope that student support will coalesce around this issue. “It’s easy for us to get caught up in our own lives. Once in a while we have to stand up for something, to stand up for what we believe in.” Said the president, “I think this is one that’s worth fighting for.”

DO YOU SMOKE IN YOUR ROOM?
Frequently 2.9%
Occasionally 11.6%
Never 85.6%

ARE YOU TOLERANT OF PEOPLE SMOKING IN YOUR ROOM?
Yes 18.8%
No 73.9%
Did not reply 7.2%

DO YOU SUPPORT BANNING SMOKING IN ALL RESIDENCE HALLS?
Yes 46.9%
No 43.5%
Don’t Know 9.7%

DO YOU SUPPORT THE CREATION OF A SMOKE-FREE RESIDENCE HALL?
Yes 77.3%
No 12.6%
Don’t Know 10.1%

Housing concerns allayed
By ANN GREGORY News Editor

RLO’s drastic reduction in off-campus housing permission coupled with the largest campus population in history has incited concern amongst the student body over recent weeks. Many of these fears were allayed on Tuesday, as every senior group that applied for a four-person apartment was accommodated. Three “mixed groups” (with some seniors and some juniors) also secured apartments, as did one group of all juniors. However, some seniors seeking either five-person apartments and off-campus permission were able to obtain neither. Due to the added costs incurred by the construction of the new dorm and lost revenue from the addition of lounges to every hall, RLO slashed the number of off-campus permissions from 120 to 60. Holmes says the reduced number of off-campus spots “has always been a reality of the new building. It was a conscious choice on the part of the College to slightly increase the percentage of students on campus. Targeting the exact number is some sort of cross between an art form, magic, and voodoo.” The RLO staff came up with the number 60 from an estimate of the number of students studying away from campus and the number of students needed on campus to create 16 new lounges and return the appropriate amount of financial support. If their estimate of 134 students studying off-campus next year is lower than expected, Holmes assures that “we will be able (and eager) to tell people on the waitlist for off-campus that they can go.” In the meantime, eleven seniors have been denied off-campus permission in the first round of lottery. The only underclassmen that were awarded off-campus permission were those with “special needs” approved by Residence Life, the Dean of Students office, or the Counseling Center. “I had looked forward to living off campus for spring semester next year, until I was told by RLO that there was little chance of getting permission,” lamented rising junior Dave Love. Many students fear that limited off-campus space will translate into increased competition for the more desirable residence halls. Rising sophomore David Summers added, “I just hope that there will be enough room in the new dorm to accommodate those of us who'd like to live there.” Answering those concerns, Holmes said, “While it is possible that seniors will take a number of spaces in the new building, I don’t believe they will constitute any sort of majority. The 445 rising seniors in the Class of 2001 marks the largest class in Davidson’s history, continuing a trend that will peak with the Class of 2002. In short,” says Holmes, “this year’s senior class is the largest in the history of Davidson. Thus, every milestone for lottery seems that much more difficult for students and the RLO staff to navigate. But, we are modifying our projects as we cross each of those milestones and are working hard to make all of the square pegs fit in the square holes and the round pegs in the round ones.”