Ignition 2, a titled debut album, includes songs ranging from the eccentric and flirtatious “Meet Virginia” to the serious and
reflective “Blind.” Tickets in advance are $10 with a college ID, and $15 for the general public. Tickets at the
door are $12 with a college ID, and $17 for the general public. Tickets can be purchased at the Union
Ticket Window, or by calling Desicine at (704)-552-6500.

John Lane, Environmental Poet, Meets Davidson

John Lane, an environmental poet from South Carolina, visited Davidson on Friday, September 1. A professor of English and creative
writing at Wofford University in South Carolina, Lane participated in workshops and readings about the environment aimed at emerging poets.
He spent the day with Dr. Ante Ingram’s “Literature and the Environment” class. The highlight of his visit occurred Friday
evening. Lane read some of his poems, dating from his time in college to those currently awaiting publication. The majority
of the poetry presented during the evening was naturalistic in theme.

Nearly fifty people showed up for the hour-long reading that began around sunset. Ben Carter ‘01, chair of the Literary
Arts Committee of the Union Board, noted that this large turnout is “indicative of the interest in Davidson [in poetry]
that sometimes is not recognized.” Although the evening did not feature any student works, Carter pointed out that the Union
will be sponsoring an open mic poetry night in the near future.

Entertainment Industry Alumni to Speak on Campus

On Wednesday, September 13 and Thursday, September 14, Davidson alumni will introduce and speak about their experiences in the entertainment
industry.

BY AMBER PARKE - Staff Writer

An issue that is making headlines across the nation—the debate over the death penalty—has caught the attention of two local
governments this month. The city councils in Charlotte and Davidson have passed resolutions calling for a moratorium, or temporary ban,
on executions. Currently, there are approximately 211 condemned criminals on death row in North Carolina, including 16 from Mecklenburg County.

The Coalition for a Moratorium on Capital Punishment, composed mostly of local clergy and attorneys, brought this issue to the
attention of the Charlotte City Council at a meeting on July 28. The meeting attracted a large crowd eager to
voice its opinions on the controversial issue. Because the City Council doesn’t hold official authority on the issue of capital
punishment, many leaders were opposed to dealing with it at all. Nevertheless, a bipartisan vote for the resolution passed by
a vote of eight to three.

Mayor Pro Tem Susan Burgess was among those who supported the moratorium. “I’ve been told that a wealthy person has
never been executed. If one can afford competent defense and avoid the death penalty, that to me is unjust,” said
Burgess. Joe White, a Member-at-Large on the Council, voted against the resolution because he does not view capital punishment as
a topic pertinent to the council and its duties. But he supports a moratorium. “I support capital punishment as I
feel that it is appropriate in certain cases, but at the same time, I do support the moratorium.” White considers
the current manner in which the death penalty is implemented to be immoral, but he added, “I feel very strongly
that we were elected to [deal with] the business of Charlotte.”

Burgess, on the other hand, argued that the death penalty is of concern to the council. “Our employees at the
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department are the point of entry to the justice system (and potential death sentences),” she said. Burgess said
that “there needs to be a groundswell of support from the people to give the General Assembly [of North Carolina]
the courage to address the issue.”

The resolution was vetoed by Charlotte Mayor Pat McCrory, who adamantly opposed the council’s involvement, saying the vote was “a
political gesture” and “not representative of the beliefs of the majority of Charlotte.” “First, it is not within our realm
of responsibility,” explained McCrory. “Second, I strongly agree with the actual proposal. There are 16 people from Mecklenburg County on
death row, and I have personally reviewed each of the cases. The families of the victims have waited long enough
for justice.” The council debated the issue again at last night’s meeting. Seven votes are needed to override the mayor’s
veto.

The Davidson Town Board of Commissioners first focused on capital punishment in early July. Rev. Andy Baxter and other local
citizens approached the Town Board and...

Russian Poet Speaks Out Against Indifference

BY KATIE WILSON - Special Contributor

Yevgeny Yevtushenko will present this year’s McGaw lecture on Thursday, September 7, when he reads and comments on his work
beginning at 7 p.m. in Love Auditorium. A reception and book signing will follow the presentation. Not only a poet
but also an actor, filmmaker, and photographer, Yevtushenko will also introduce his film, Stalin’s Funeral, on Friday, September 8, at
8 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.

While Yevtushenko may not be familiar to the majority of Davidson students, he is recognized among the professors. “Yevgeny Yevtushenko
is one of Russia’s best-known poets, whose courage and political savvy in raising Holocaust issues during the Khrushchev era tested
the limits of free speech under a regime of censorship,” said Dr. Bob Williams, chair of the history department. Yevtushenko’s
most celebrated poem is “Babi Yar,” which criticizes the indifference of the post-World War II Soviet Union to atrocities committed
against Jews. The title refers to a ravine where...96,000 Soviet Jews were systematically killed by German forces. In the content
of the poem, Yevtushenko condemns the reaction of the Soviet government, namely the construction of a monument which made no
mention of the victims’ religious affiliation. Yevtushenko broached a taboo subject in a way never attempted before, drawing comparisons between
him and anti-establishment poets in our own country. Indeed, his readings often filled stadiums and other large venues. Nina Serebrennikov
remembers one such occasion at the Library of Congress in the late sixties. “I went because my parents were Russians
who had left during the Revolution, but Yevtushenko was young, he was a dissident, this was still the time of
the cold war, and the line was huge. Despite all the conversations with people in front and back of me
as we waited, I wasn’t quite sure what to expect when I grabbed a folding chair and sat down. When
he read Babi Yar, I can only say I was impaled. I’d been to Dachau, and I’d often wondered what
it would be like to be a German my age, knowing what one’s parents had been witness to, indeed complicit
to. Now I knew. I haven’t forgotten.” When this poem came out in 1961, the government’s response was swift, and
“Babi Yar” was rewritten in a censored version. Yevtushenko and the other shestidesiatniki, “people of the sixties,” sought greater artistic
freedom and a movement away from poetry as political propaganda. They spoke out against Stalinism and advocated for reforms in
Soviet ideology. They were not, however, anti-communist. Yevtushenko is noted for his dramatic presentations and charismatic stage presence. He allowed
Dmitri Shostakovich, a twentieth-century Russian composer, to set “Babi Yar” to music. Symphony No. 13 was also banned by the
Soviet government, although two performances were allowed before the ban was issued. A discussion of this symphony, the historical context
of censorship, and other musical connections of Yevtushenko will occur on Friday, September 8 at 3:00 p.m. Contact Neil Lerner
in the Music department for details. Yevtushenko’s visit to Davidson is sponsored by the Department of German & Russian, the
Department of English, the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies, and the McGaw Endowment of the Public Lectures Committee. For
more information, call 894-2441 or 894-2855.

The Board and the Davidson public were invited to a presentation about the death penalty at Davidson United Methodist Church.
At the July 11 meeting, the resolution passed by a vote of 5-0. The resolution cites facts such as “98%
of the people on North Carolina’s death row have been unable to afford their own attorney,” and “In the past
decade in North Carolina, for every four citizens executed, we have released one citizen from death row after their innocence
has been established.” The resolution further urges the federal government to adopt legislation imposing a moratorium on executions until it
can be confirmed that any citizen charged with a capital crime would be guaranteed competent legal counsel not dependent on
the defendant’s ability to pay for it, due process in which the risk of an innocent citizen being executed has
been minimized and due process in which neither the race of the defendant nor the victim changes the likelihood that
the defendant receives the death penalty. Dr. Dave Martin, Professor of Economics at the college and a member of the
Town Board, stated, “It is a concern for the Davidson Town Board when any Davidson resident could be part of
the system we support.” It is also important to emphasize, he added, that “it was (calling for) a moratorium on
the death penalty, not a statement on the validity of the death penalty.”

Matt Garfield, Aaron Houck
Contributing authors

Vamanos hits the road
SGA brings back late-night taxi service
BY JOHANNES NORLING
Staff Writer

“Vamanos” is back in business. After a yearlong layoff, the transportation service is back and ready to shuttle students to
and from their desired destinations. It will run for the first time this weekend. The “Vamanos” (which is Spanish for
“we go”) idea originated a few years ago as a student-operated taxi service. Each weekend, a different Patterson Court organization
was in charge of driving the van. The service was designed to offer transportation to students without cars and to
cut down on drunk driving. But a shortage of drivers kept the Vamanos van parked in the garage all year.
New interest and a change of leadership revived the service this year. The Dean of Students’ Office and the SGA,
which sponsors the service, appointed two directors to run the show and keep “Vamanos” on the road. Beth Gardner and
Monica Siegenthaler are now in charge of scheduling all drivers. The new service runs from 8 p.m.-11 p.m. on Thursday
nights and from 8 p.m.-2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. During these hours of operation, anyone who needs a
ride merely has to call the van’s cell phone at (704) 564-7135. The van will take people from Davidson to
a location, and bring them back home later. “Vamanos” operates anywhere within Interstate 77 exits 25-36 or anywhere else within
about fifteen or twenty minutes, but not to Charlotte. For those interested in driving the van, described as a “very
fun experience, in which you’ll get to meet all sorts of interesting people,” contact Beth Gardner at extension 5430.
