No. 12 Vanderbilt tops Davidson 19-7  
By Derek SMITH  
Davidson S.I.D.

NASHVILLE, Tenn.—The twelfth-ranked Vanderbilt Commodores used a balanced scoring attack Friday night as they overpowered the Davidson Wildcats 19-7 in women’s lacrosse action at the Vanderbilt Lacrosse Stadium. As has happened so many times this season, the Wildcats got behind early and were unable to make a comeback. The Commodores jumped out to a 4-0 lead before sophomore Beth Calder put the Wildcats on the scoreboard at the 13:34 mark of the first half. Vanderbilt scored five more goals in the first period and kept Davidson to just that lone goal as the teams headed to intermission with a 9-1 edge for Vanderbilt.

Junior Lauren Kenchington scored the first goal of the second half to pull the Wildcats within seven, 9-2. The two teams traded goals for the first six minutes of play in the second stanza with Kenchington adding her second goal of the match with 24:34 left in the game. Vanderbilt scored less than a minute later to make the score 11-3 and proceeded to score the next six goals to extend their lead to 17-3. Davidson went on a run of its own that was started by sophomore Christin Raimondo. Sophomore Blair Otto scored her first collegiate goal with just under 11 minutes in regulation and then junior Stephanie Hunter followed with a goal off a pass from Molly Cherington to slice the Vanderbilt lead to 17-6 with 8:29 left. Cherington added a late goal for Davidson while Vanderbilt netted two more themselves to make the final score, 19-7 in favor of the Commodores.

Senior goalkeeper Lisa Benjamin recorded 13 saves on the afternoon while facing 42 Vanderbilt shots. The duo of Emily Lough and Shana Crabtree recorded 11 saves to earn the victory for the Commodores.

Davidson triumphs 13-7 over Denver  
By Derek SMITH  
Davidson S.I.D.

NASHVILLE, Tenn.—Sophomores Beth Calder and Molly Cherington each scored a hat trick Saturday afternoon to lead the Davidson College Wildcats to a 13-7 victory over the Denver Pioneers in women’s lacrosse action at the Vanderbilt Lacrosse Stadium. Unlike the game against Vanderbilt on Friday evening, the Wildcats jumped out to a quick 4-0 lead. It took almost 10 minutes, but Calder put the first points of the game on the board. Sophomore Sarah Otto netted a goal at the 16:19 mark to make the lead two for Davidson. Sophomore Christin Raimondo extended the lead to 3-0 with 15:06 left in the first half. Calder scored her second goal of the game with just under four minutes remaining which was quickly followed by the Pioneers' first goal of the game with 3:43 remaining. The Wildcats extended the lead to 6-1 before the half on a pair of goals by junior Lauren Kenchington, both of which were assisted by junior Stephanie Hunter.

Otto put her second goal of the game in the back of the net to get the second half scoring underway for Davidson. A goal by Kim Bodick of Denver pulled them back to within five, 7-2, before Cherington scored back-to-back goals and Hunter netted her second goal in as many games. With the score 10-2, Denver scored the next four goals and pulled within four goals with just over 12 minutes left in the game. Davidson answered back with goals from sophomore Blair Otto, Calder, and Cherington to seal the victory. The Wildcats (5-7) hit the road again next week, traveling to Boston College on April 22 and then to Columbia on April 25.

By Rick BENDER  
Davidson S.I.D.

For the first time in six years, the baseball team of Davidson College (22-18) will get an opportunity to knock off the top-ranked team in the country. The Wildcats will play at South Carolina (36-4) on Tuesday evening at 7:00 p.m. against the Gamecocks, who just earned the number-one ranking in the most recent polls from Baseball America and Collegiate Baseball. Davidson is no stranger to pulling off the upset against top-ranked teams in baseball. The last time the Wildcats squared off against the number-one team was on April 13, 1994, against Georgia Tech in Atlanta. Despite entering the game with a 13-23 record, Davidson shocked the Yellow Jackets, 6-4. Among the members of that Georgia Tech team were current major leaguers Nomar Garciaparra and Jason Varitek.

Davidson to face No. 1 South Carolina  
Mark Wells (left) and the Wildcats will try to topple another top-ranked team when they travel to Columbia, S.C. next week. Wells earned the victory against N.C. State earlier this season.

Davidson is having one of its finest seasons in recent memory. With 22 victories, the Wildcats have reached the 20-win plateau for the first time since 1994, the same year they beat Georgia Tech. The last time Davidson finished a season above .500 was in 1992 when the Wildcats went 27-22.Garciaparra, Jason Varitek, Jay Payton, and Brad Rigby. Prior to that encounter with the top team in the nation, the Wildcats defeated the No. 1 Hurricanes of Miami on March 15, 1990, by a final of 3-2. Famous players for Miami that year include Charles Johnson, Jorge Fabregas, and Orlando Palmeiro. So, the question is, can Davidson continue its “winning streak” against number-one teams? “Obviously, that’s just a quirky stat,” said Davidson head coach Dick Cooke. “(South Carolina coach) Ray Tanner runs a great program,” Cooke continued. “South Carolina has great fans, a tremendous facility. This is why we play the big schools — to expose our players to some of the best teams in the country and do everything we can to play competitively at that level.”

The Wildcats tied the school record with 28 wins. The Wildcats have been able to maintain their solid play despite losing two key players to injury more than three weeks ago. Senior shortstop Ben Brown, who had started all but one game at short in his career, suffered a broken fibula in his left leg on March 19. The team’s staff ace, junior Wes Self, was enjoying his finest season with a 5-1 record and a 2.83 ERA — second best in the Southern Conference — when he tore his meniscus in his right knee on March 26. Both are expected back on the field within the next two weeks, giving them time to get back in the groove prior to the Southern Conference Tournament on May 17-20.

Charlotte native Mark Wells (4-1, 4.62 ERA) is scheduled to start for Davidson. He has drawn some of the Wildcats’ stiffer competition this year, having defeated N.C. State earlier this year and suffered his only loss to the nationally-ranked Tar Heels of North Carolina two weeks ago.

Tennis, from page 16.

“These two are so streaky that I call them the ‘Tennis Twosome,’” said head coach Jeff Frank. In singles action, Ialacci managed a huge win over Iliam Gonzales, who was ranked one of the top thirty players in the world as a junior. “This is the biggest win of my life, even more so than my win over Eddie Almada of the Citadel,” said Ialacci. “If I can play with a guy so high in the (junior rankings), then I can beat anyone at the collegiate level.” Okulski won an easy match 6-1, 6-2 on his 22nd birthday over Browning Nagel, but Hansen and Boykin, who managed to play singles, weren’t as fortunate in their singles competition. Boykin lost a close match to Whitney Himpler, 6-2, 6-3, and Hansen fell to Gabriella Mantini 7-6 in the third set. At the No. 7 singles spot, Leroy Butler prevailed in a close match to move to a 2-8 singles record for the year.

Wildcats win second straight
By Matt PETERS
Staff Writer

On a sunny Sunday afternoon, the Davidson men’s tennis squad demolished the Mountaineers of Appalachian State, improving the team to 10-8 overall, and 5-3 in the Southern Conference. “This win was bigger than all the others this year combined,” head coach Jeff Frank said. “This victory feels real good deep down inside.”

In non-contested doubles action, the senior leaders, Brett Ialacci and Alex Okulski pummeled their opponents, Layton Hewitt and Leslie Thompson, 8-3. “This was a great win for us,” said Okulski after the match. “My mom, Pam, and Brett’s dad Rocky were watching, so it felt good to win this one for them.” In other non-contested doubles action, the undefeated Whit Hansen and Jakub Sramek defeated their opponents 9-7 in a nail-biter. After the match, it was announced that Sramek will permanently replace Billy Boykin in the doubles lineup, thus enabling Billy to concentrate on his No. 4 singles position.

The Wildcats played the singles matches that counted with the same tenacity. At the No. 1 spot, Ialacci defeated Blair Easton 6-3, 6-4 to clinch another point towards the Wildcats’ victory. Hansen demolished his competition 6-3, 6-7, 6-1 under the hot sun. “I was in total control the entire time,” a confident Hansen said after the match. Okulski took care of business at the No. 3 spot, defeating Tahoe Alvarez 7-5, 6-4. After resting during the doubles matches, Boykin defeated his opponent in a close three-set battle. “It feels good just to win today,” said Boykin after suffering a groin pull last week. “I am only trying to rebuild my strength.”

The match of the day came at the No. 5 position, where Chad Weinbarger defeated his opponent Mateen 6-0, 6-0. Saturday’s match marked the first time such a score had been registered in Southern Conference play in over three years. “I just felt on today,” said Weinbarger. “It was like I was possessed.” “I was proud of the guy today,” lauded coach Frank. “He went out and played like I knew he could.” Chad Phillips won 6-3, 6-4 to complete the Wildcats’ sweep. In exhibition action, Leroy Butler and Matt Peters both won in doubles and singles play. At the last singles spot, Jim Davis ousted his opponent, Patrick Fraley, 6-1, 7-5 for his first victory of the year.

The team looks to improve even further on their record Thursday against No. 39 in the nation, UNC Greensboro.