By Mariana DeEFEDEISA

A few weeks ago, the world was abuzz over the situation in Austria, a tiny mountainous country located in Central
Europe. Why? Simply because the long-held coalition between the SP and VP disintegrated, leaving behind the opportunity for a third
party, the FP, to arise. This is nothing new. It would be tantamount to the Reform or Libertarian Party gaining
a majority up on Capitol Hill. So why has the European Union (EU) threatened to sanction Austria?

Austria, like the other EU members, is a free and democratic country in which elections are held and the people
choose their rulers. Though their governmental system is quite different from that of the US (perhaps a source of misunderstanding),
it is still democratic and holds much of the same principles. Is it fair to say that the world should
isolate the country simply because it is facing internal governmental problems and is restructuring? No. What were the reactions to
the recent military coups in Pakistan and Ecuador? Was there talk of sanctions upon those countries? No. Yet, Austria, who
didn’t have anything as drastic as a coup, faces the threat of political isolation.

Such sanctions would be like a vote of no confidence in the British system. The government is restructuring. Shouldn’t we
be complimenting this? Critics of Austria should go back to the basic democratic principles of representation. The Austrian people were
fed up with the current interaction between their two main parties (comparable to the Republican and Democratic Party disputes in
the US). Therefore, what should be the natural result, but a changing of government to reflect these changing desires?

Things would have looked differently had President Kleistil called earlier elections. This would have shown that the people do indeed
desire Joerg Haider’s Party (FP) to be a part of the government. And if it’s the people’s will, then how
can you call it undemocratic? After all, it’s not as if Haider, a man renowned for his Nazi and anti-immigrant
sentiments, will be a part of this government. Unfortunately, Haider is not known for his diplomacy. This is what I
believe is causing the call for sanctions.

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Austria receives unmerited sanctions

International

Crossword

Across
1. Pointed
5. UCLA rival
9. Ship part
14. Kiddie vehicle
15. Train depot (abbr.)
16. Gives off
17. Balboa competitor
18. German one
19. Gem measurement
20. Beginning of quip
22. Musical symbol
24. Be sick
25. Artist Andy
29. Actor Idle
31. Great Expectations nickname
34. Zones
35. Proofread
36. As well as
37. Second part of quip
39. Third part of quip
41. Model Moss
42. Actress Skye
44. Range
45. Mos. and mos.
46. Carson’s successor
47. Concurs
48. Egg holder
49. Shoats’ partners
51. Final part of quip
58. British distance
59. Southpaw’s stat
60. Wed unseen
61. “If you need __ to talk to”
62. Word with supply or thin
63. Baggy, as clothing
64. Playfully bounds
65. USA panhandle
66. Bad car

Down
1. “__-boy!”
2. Goo Goo Dolls song
3. Rent character
4. Squeaks by
5. Glucose variety
6. Consumers
7. Higher than normal
8. Sugar crop
9. Non-stop
10. __ and the Night Visitors
11. Send money
12. Celebrity
13. EDT alt.
21. Electric animal
22. George Michael song
25. Absurd
26. Full of noise
27. Leases
28. “I Told You Lately”
30. Emulate the sun?
31. Pen feather
32. Section of Time or Life
33. Beauty and the Beast mom, w/ Mrs.
35. English school
36. Open
38. Brother’s daughter
40. Something to walk on?
43. Hole in one’s head?
46. LA hoopsters
47. Wonder
48. Chuck
50. Scarlet, in Gone With The Wind
51. Casino offering
52. Newspaper column
53. Dumb’s partner
54. Lotion ingredient
55. Sonic noise
56. __ facto
57. Adolescent
58. Damageversus the idea of a right-wing party being a part of the government. I believe that within a couple
of months, the people and his party will see the devastating result of Haider’s frequent and indecent remarks. Once this
happens, leadership changes will occur. But that is Austria’s business. Give it a chance to reform its government without having
to worry about political isolation. The world has not given this tiny country a chance to prove itself. Instead, before
even watching to see how this new government will operate, we threaten them with sanctions. Is that really fair? Certainly
not. Give Austria a chance for political reform!

Mariana DeFede is a freshman, German and Political Science double major from Spain.

Dr. Krentz to write book on Greek warfare

Press RELEASE

W. Kendrick Pritchett ’29 has ensured that the name of Davidson College will forever be associated with scholarship on ancient
Greek warfare. Peter Krentz, professor of classics, will further enhance the college’s reputation by writing a book that synthesizes current
knowledge of the subject into a single volume with popular appeal. Pritchett, a former professor at Berkeley whose 90th birthday
was celebrated by Krentz and many others last spring, wrote the five-volume The Greek State at War between 1971 and
1991. Krentz will draw from those books and a tremendous amount of scholarship from Pritchett and other researchers to write
a single-volume interpretation of Greek warfare with appeal to a broad audience.

The National Endowment for the Humanities has accepted his proposal, and will provide $30,000 funding to support Krentz’s research on
the subject in Greece next academic year. He will spend the year as an Elizabeth A. Whitehead Visiting Professor at
the American School of Classical Studies in Athens. Krentz has written a half-dozen articles on Greek warfare, dating back to
1985. His research thus far has led him to believe that Greek warfare was not so bound by a code
of honorable conduct as many scholars believe. “Some have even referred to the battles as ‘tournaments’ to emphasize the rules
they followed,” explained Krentz. “But my notion is that things were never so rigid.” His most recent journal article covers
deception in Greek warfare, and argues that ambush and trickery were accepted practices. Krentz said, “It may be that early
Greek

See Krentz, page 7.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

Sierra Leone. The UN Security Council agreed to increase the size of its peacekeeping force in the West African nation
from 6,000 to 11,000. This makes it the largest UN force currently in operation.

Stipe Mesic. The reformer, who was Yugoslavia’s last president before its breakup in 1991, has just been elected as President
of Croatia. Mesic’s first move as President was to invite around 300,000 ethnic-Serb refugees to return to the country.

Hostages on the hijacked Afghan airplane. The tension surrounding the Afghan airplane that was hijacked in London came to an
end as all the passengers were released and the hijackers surrendered under the terms of political asylum.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Lebanon. When six Israeli soldiers were killed in Israel-occupied southern Lebanon, the Jewish nation retaliated by bombing Lebanon. Three electric
transformers that provide power to key Lebanese cities including Beirut, the capital, were hit by the bombs.

Pavle Bulatovic. The Serbian, who was Yugoslavia’s defense minister and a key ally of President Milosevic, was fatally shot in
a restaurant in Belgrade.

Nauru. One of the newest members of the United Nations, this Pacific island has proposed to review its banking system
after it was disclosed that Russian criminals were using it for money laundering.

Your image is everything. How much it costs can be our little secret.

Turnberry Place-Cornelius (Next to Sushi at the Lake) W. Catawba Ave

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY $6.99

OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99

Not valid with other offers.
