THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS. THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Coach Mark retires after 48 years of coaching
By Davin MoncureE
Staff Writer

After seven seasons as the head coach of the Davidson College golf team, Joe Mark is retiring. After about 48 total years in coaching, Mark is looking forward to his retirement. “I’m looking forward to travelling more and becoming a spectator,” commented Mark. He is also happy that he is ending his Davidson coaching experience on a high note, as the golf team is playing as well as any team has played during his seven years here. “I feel great about the direction the program is heading,” said Mark. “We have gotten better and better [during my time here].”

Mark graduated from William and Mary in 1951 with a Bachelor of Science degree in physical education and a minor in biology. He also played football and ran track. After graduating he served in the Korean Conflict for two years with the US Army. He then received his Master’s in Education in 1954 from William & Mary. Mark then moved on to coaching. For three years he was an assistant football coach and head golf coach at William & Mary, and then he spent eight years as an assistant football coach at University of North Carolina Chapel Hill. He then coached at the Naval Academy, the University of Maryland, the University of Virginia, and Shippensburg University. Mark then went back to Virginia to work with athletic fundraising in 1979 and remained there until he came to Davidson in 1992.

During his first year at Davidson, Mark worked with the Davidson Athletic Foundation, and in 1993 he began his tenure as the Wildcat’s head golf coach. “It has been a great experience working with the true student athlete,” lauded Mark. “They are all fine young men with their priorities straight.” Mark has also left a big impact on the student-athletes that he has coached at Davidson. “Coach Mark was one of the main reasons...

Dye named member of the GTE Academic All-District First Team
Press RELEASE
Davidson S.I.D.

STAMFORD, CONN. - Senior Ginny Dye was named to the GTE Academic All-District Fall/Winter at-large first team. She was one of nine females voted to the District III first team, which is made up of members from all fall and winter sports. She was the only Southern Conference athlete on the first team. Dye, a native of Columbia, Md., represented the only female athlete from the Southern Conference on the first team. She has a 3.88 cumulative GPA and led the Wildcats with her six goals, 10 assists and 22 points. She currently sits in third place for career points (73), third in career goals (28) and tied a single-season record this year for her 10 assists. Earlier this season, she was named to the 1999 National Soccer Coaches Association of America’s Scholar Athlete All-American second team. The only other women’s soccer player to earn this honor was Kelly Ammann (’93-’97), who was named in her senior year. Dye also earned All-Southern honors for the fourth-straight year. As a result of the award, Dye will be automatically nominated as a GTE Academic All-American and represents the first women’s soccer player on a national ballot.

Davidson hockey crushes UNCC
By Mark HyMERLING
Hockey Correspondent

The Wildcats faced off against their rival, UNCC and once again came out on top in local roller hockey action. Evan McCormick opened the scoring with a trademark rush from the defensive zone. He beat the entire UNCC team and fired a wrist shot over the shoulder of the goaltender. Continuing their dominance, the Wildcats quickly added to their lead on a goal by Mark Hymerling. Hymerling took a pass from Ron Olson and shot over the diving goalie. Andy Rhodes continued his offensive roll by one-timing a shot through the UNCC goalie’s five-hole to raise the lead to 3-0. Ryan Auster, playing through his knee injury, flew down the floor and rifled a wrist shot into the upper corner of the net. Minutes later, Marc Naples scored the prettiest goal of the game; he one-timed a pass from McCormick into the roof of the net. Meanwhile, the defense of Brad and Bryan Stevinson suffocated the UNCC attack, allowing only a few shots to reach goalie Jamey Heit, which he turned away effortlessly, frustrating the UNCC forwards. “The guys in front of me make my job very easy,” said Heit. “For them, scoring goals is like shooting fish in a barrel.”

Auster single-handedly killed the second half of a Wildcat penalty by weaving and circling the floor with the puck. After the penalty expired, Hymerling rushed in and fired home a wrist shot to make it 6-0. The Wildcats then drew a power play and Naples cashed in on a shot from a sharp angle that deflected off the goalie’s pads and into the net. McCormick once again weaved through the UNCC defense and notched another goal. In the third period, Auster fed Hymerling...In the slot, he fired a shot over the goalie’s shoulder. Bryan Stevinson then put on his own impressive display of stickhandling, cutting through the UNCC defense and firing a bullet into the net. The Wildcats dominated far more than the 10-4 final score showed, earning a very satisfying victory. 

"Tonight was by far our best performance of the season,” said McCormick. “Everyone had a tremendous game and played heads-up hockey. It was fun tonight.” Rhodes was far more impressed with the effort tonight. “Last week we just kept hacking away in the crease,” Rhodes commented. “But against UNCC, we kept our eyes open, picked our shots, and remembered to make it look pretty for the ladies.”

“Having Auster back is huge,” said Bryan Stevinson. “It just gives us so much more depth on defense. It lets me play on the right side with him and with his offensive skills. I can just focus on playing solid defense. And it lets us shift Naples back to his natural forward position, which also gives the attack a little more spark.”

"One of the reasons why I came to Davidson to play golf,” Oliver Cross said. “He has made my college golf experience one I will never forget. Coach Mark is not only admired by his players, but by other coaches, teams, and the community as well.”

“It will be sad to see Coach go,” Sean Davidson said. “What he has done for Davidson golf is basically indescribable. He has meant so much to the program.” Coach Mark said, “I will definitely miss the association with the team and being around the young people. I will also miss the camaraderie with the other coaches. I will still follow the Davidson golf team and see how they perform. It is fun to follow up and see how your recruits have performed.”

Women’s Tennis Weekend Action
Press Release Davidson S.I.D.

CHARLESTON, SC — Davidson’s Kelley Cantrell and Gayle Jones were the lone bright spots in a disappointing 6-3 loss to College of Charleston (9-12, 3-5) Sunday in Southern Conference women’s tennis. Cantrell stayed hot with her third straight win at No. 4 singles. She improved to a perfect 3-0 mark in SoCon action. Freshman Jones also remained undefeated in the league as she earned a three-set victory at No. 6 singles. The two accounted for each of the Wildcat victories as they rallied for an 8-4 victory in No. 3 doubles.

The Wildcats were not without their chances to win. Sophomore Forbes Thompson (No. 1 singles) split the first two games with Vinny Seiverling, only to lose the third 6-0. Senior Anna Holland breezed through the first game at No. 5 singles and fell short, losing the next two. Thompson and sophomore doubles partner, Elizabeth Moreno, jumped out to a commanding 7-0 lead in No. 1, but Seiverling and Liorah Levin rallied for nine straight points to win 9-7.

Press Release Davidson S.I.D.

DAVIDSON, N.C. — Davidson College lost for the second time in as many matches, suffering a 5-2 loss to the Bucs of East Tennessee State in Southern Conference men’s tennis action on Saturday afternoon. The Wildcats only captured two of the six singles matches and also lost the doubles point despite winning one of the three matches. Davidson falls to East Tennessee 5-2. Senior Brett Ialacci (above), along with doubles partner Alex Okulski, notched a point for the Wildcats last Saturday with a victory in doubles competition. Davidson falls to 1-2 in the SoCon and 5-8 overall and plays host to UNC Greensboro Wednesday.

STATESBORO, GA — Davidson played Georgia Southern to a 3-3 tie in singles but fell short as the Eagles swept in doubles to defeat the Wildcats 6-3, Saturday in Southern Conference women’s tennis. Freshman Yasamine Hilu picked up the first Wildcat win at No. 3 singles with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over Ella Reilly. Kelley Cantrell won at No. 4 singles and freshman Gayle Jones won at No. 6 singles. Hilu, Cantrell, and Jones each remain undefeated in SoCon action with a 2-0 record. Elizabeth Moreno, who had won her previous four matches, fell 6-2, 6-3 in No. 2 singles to Martha Barett. Barett, Isabella Kling, and Brooke McNamee each picked up a pair of wins for the Eagles. GSU (6-6, 3-1) travels to conference-leading Furman Sunday. Davidson falls to 1-1 in the SoCon and 5-7 overall and travels to College of Charleston Sunday for a 10 a.m. match.

The No. 5 and No. 6 players for Davidson—Chad Winebarger and Chad Phillips—each earned victories on the afternoon. Winebarger took a straight-set victory over Ricardo Nava while Phillips won a 6-2, 7-5 match over Matt Keeter. The doubles duo of Brett Ialacci and Alex Okulski squeaked out a 9-8 victory in doubles at the No. 1 slot, but the Bucs took the other two matches to earn the double point as well. The Wildcats (6-7, 2-2 Southern Conference) visit Southern Conference foe VMI on April 4 for a 1:00 p.m. match.