Greetings and salutations. For those of you who are wondering who came up with a column with such a bizarre
title, most of you don’t care, but I'll tell you anyway. My name is Andrew MacDonald. Last year I authored
a series of unusual and informative (debatable) articles, including “Hall Golf,” “The Snowman Cometh,” and “Spam, It’s What’s For Dinner.”
This year, as an erudite and enlightened sophomore, I shall both try to expand your minds as well as to
offer little-known and amazing details of the inner workings of the Davidson College campus and of the a-typical student’s mind.
Here we go!

I arrived on campus early this year and found, to my dismay, that the transportation infrastructure had been turned into
something reminiscent of Dresden, 1945. I was distraught, dismayed, and most of all, delinquent (I ran a portable stop sign).
How was I to unload my packed-to-the-roof vehicle? Was I to ignore warning signs and pull up on the sidewalk?
Exactly. I was a rebel with a cause: shortening the distance between my suitcases in the car and the floor
of my dorm room. Success! But, I celebrated too soon.

As I was walking up from my basement location (basement Cannon, to be exact, girls, my door is always open)
to my aging but illustrious Volvo, I began to hear a ringing sound. No, not a ringing sound, more of
an incessant beep, kind of like the drone of the torture device used in medieval Han dynasty torture chambers. That
was when I realized something that had eluded my attention up until that time. There was nowhere to park; not
nowhere to park as in I have to park two minutes from my dorm instead of the usual thirty seconds.
Rather, nowhere to park, as in there would be a better likelihood of finding a needle in Siberia.

What was the source of this head-splitting screech? It was the door, the door that had been propped open, and
the door that had been propped open with a trashcan. Actually, it looked remarkably similar to the door that I
had propped open with a trashcan, but that is of no grave importance. What is of grave importance was that
my harmless little trashcan maneuver attracted the attention of a not-so-harmless officer. She was actually very kind as she told
me to get my car off of the grass before she had to open fire on me and all of
my worldly belongings. So, naturally, I jumped in the car and drove off at speeds up to and exceeding 10
mph.

It was then that I began to look around at the campus. Gone were the sloping hills of beautiful evergreens
that had lined Patterson Court. In their place was an architecturally masterful dirt lot. Where paths once stood to guide
my meanderings, dirt trails now existed, muddied from recent rains. And, as if to add insult to injury, the trip
from Cannon to the Belk computer lab (where I work frequently, girls...), which had once been a hop, skip, and
a jump, was now more along the lines of a ten-mile march through the jungles of Vietnam.

Why had they destroyed the idyllic Davidson campus? Was it in an effort to trip up the backwards-walking tour guides?
Or was it part of something more sinister? Did they really think that no one would notice that Cannon did
not have a roof or that the entire building of Belk looked as if it was in the middle of
two opposing armies engaged in trench warfare? But, not to worry, all is well. This “construction” (read as devastating mess)
is in the name of progress (the same progress, I might add, that led to the Hindenburg, Nuclear Winter, and
the TV series “Big Brother”), and progress is a good thing... Or so they would have us believe...

Note: Andrew does not imply, suggest, nor admit to having ever parked on the grass. His legal team will deal
with any such salacious claims in a quick and decisive manner. Furthermore, he has not held the views stated in
this article ever since he got a “sweet” space in the Belk parking lot.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Real “Reality TV”: the Kursk tragedy

As many of you were preoccupied the past couple of weeks with who was going to be the “Survivor,” or
about the arcane peculiarities of “Big Brother” participants, a much more compelling and significant “live” narrative was playing itself out
on the floor of the Barents Sea. One of Russia’s newest and most sophisticated nuclear submarines, the Kursk, sank suddenly
and dramatically under uncertain and controversial circumstances with 118 crewmen. As much of the rest of the world held its
breath and which America won a great victory in the Cold War, the supreme irony is that we find ourselves
gravely threatened by the weakness and potential collapse of Russia. We won, their sub sank, and we are the ones
threatened? The operative words are nuclear weapons, theft and terrorism, state failure and disintegration, the environment, and perhaps the much-maligned
interdependence.served to expose the raw truth of Russia today: a former military power with reduced defense spending that differs dramatically
from its military’s self-image, force structure, and manning (still larger than the US), which continue to project Russia as a
major power and as the target of threats from a myriad of sources. One of those sources is the United
States and the fact that we maintain, among many other forces nuclear and conventional, 16 ballistic missile nuclear submarines operational
a decade after the Cold War, forcing the Russians to try to continue the Cold War. The Kursk has two
nuclear reactors, which like the sub lie rotting on the sea floor and will continue to do so for some
extended period until the huge military vessels might be raised. Military specialists, scientists, and advocates all disagree over whether the
reactors are/will be a danger to the environment or may be subject to leakage. Anyone remember the half-life of radioactive
material from your physics class? The tragedy underscored the fact that Russia already has some 100 nuclear vessels lying in
various states of disrepair in Russia’s northern ports, many with nuclear fuel still on board. The Bellona Foundation, a watchdog
agency, reports that besides the laid-up subs, Russia is believed to be storing nuclear waste in nine rotting ships, and
to have dumped as many as 17 nuclear reactors which it could no longer maintain or store into the Kara
Sea. Rest easy, this is the country that brought the world Chernobyl at the height of its power 14 years
ago. The British, however, are already uneasy about the effects on one of the main supply sources for their hallowed
fish and chips.

But this reality is far from any direct connection with me and my “Survivor” habits — or is it? Consider
the implications of one commentator’s remarks: Aaron Houck usual. But the Kursk affair was far from routine or simply another
instance of Russian post-Cold War ineptitude. The incident is emblematic not only of a human tragedy that we all share,
whether tragedy is a matter of proximity or not; rather, it is one of all too “real” connection to our
own lives and responsibility. As Graham Allison, former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and briefly “czar”
of Russian policy in the Clinton administration, lamented recently, “Were Russia’s military, and even the Russian state, sinking and dissolving
on another planet, Americans could regard this as either a greater risk of nuclear weapons vulnerable to disintegration with its
nuclear tragedy or just deserts but nonetheless as a matter of distant interest. Sadly, however, they and we share a
shrinking globe. After four decades of exertion in superpower, now bankrupt, no longer able to repair much of its still
vast nuclear arsenal or even to train its military personnel adequately, the country itself is at risk of failing as
a modern state. Nowhere may the danger exposed by the Kursk loom greater than in the possible failure or negligence
of Russian military officers who control nuclear-tipped missiles (still with some 8000 warheads) aimed at the United States. Such a
nuclear accident waiting to happen may itself be overshadowed by the theft or sale to terrorists. What makes Russian weapons
and personnel high-risk is the problem that Russian reality and era games of underwater cat-and-mouse (i.e., “Hunt for Red October”)
in order to remain a respectable power, despite a fleet rusting in harbor, nuclear power plants decaying and personnel poorly
trained, and even more poorly paid and respected. Disappearances of nuclear-weapons grade material and weapons, while not yet commonplace, have
been documented and are of increasingly grave risk in such an environment and declining authority of the state. What would
happen if the Russian state, like its predecessor the Soviet Union, were to collapse? The Kursk episode comes after a
1980s decade during which the Soviet state itself sank. It follows the 1990s, when the popular hopes invested in democratization
and westernizing reform were betrayed by the incompetence, misconduct, and corruption of the Russian military or its civilian management. As
the US increases its defense budget (despite rhetoric to the contrary) and moves so that the next president does not
“inherit a US military in decline” (again, rhetoric), how might a newly assertive movement of “national revival” in Russia react?
Are our two countries and our two societies on a collision course? Who would be the successor state this time
around? Russians and outsiders alike, is the fact that the danger belongs to us as well? Stay tuned.

Political Science
