This semester’s juggling class, taught by veteran juggler Bill Giduz, will participate in this year’s Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival.

BY Matt GARFIELD
News Editor

The skies around Davidson will be filled with flying objects of all shapes and sizes this weekend when the College Union hosts the Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival. Professional jugglers and “object manipulators” will showcase their talents and offer free lessons to anyone interested in learning to juggle.

The festival, in its third year at the college, begins Friday at 4 p.m. with the Object Manipulation Olympics. Events begin this Friday and end Sunday morning.

‘Hugo’ Festival draws jugglers. Events include the always-exciting one-ball stationary high-toss, in which participants toss a ball as high as they can and attempt to catch it without moving their feet, and the edge-of-your-seat thriller known as three-egg juggling, which challenges brave contestants to test their skills with raw eggs. Despite the risk of spilling yellow goo all over yourself, Media Relations Director and veteran juggler Bill Giduz encourages all fun-seekers to participate.

“It’s geared at a level that anyone can participate and have a good time,” said Giduz, who teaches the art of juggling to about 50 students every year—fulfilling their lifetime sport physical education requirement.

The festival concludes Sunday morning at 10 a.m. with a “Vaudeville Brunch” in Vail Commons. Jugglers will put on a 45-minute comedy show including magic and other vaudeville skills. Vaudeville is a stage-variety comedy style popular in the 1930s and 1940s.

The festival got its name from Hurricane Hugo, the massive 1989 storm whose high winds sent objects hurling through the air.

---

Second fiddle with VP debate

WINSTON-SALEM (AP) — Wake Forest University may be left playing second fiddle under a proposal by George W. Bush that would eliminate a presidential debate on campus scheduled by a nonpartisan commission. The Republican presidential nominee proposed Sunday making the Winston-Salem school the host for one of two debates between the candidates for vice president and not for president.

“It’s disappointing, but it would still be a very interesting process,” said Allan Louden, an associate professor of communications at Wake Forest.

Bush announced Sunday he had accepted three prime-time debates with Democratic nominee Al Gore, who quickly rejected the Texas governor’s terms. The Bush proposal calls for debates between him and Gore Sept. 12 in a special, prime-time edition of NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Oct. 3 in Los Angeles on CNN’s “Larry King Live,” and Oct. 17 at Washington University in St. Louis. A second vice presidential debate would be at a location yet to be set.

Wake Forest spokesman Kevin Cox said Sunday the university had not heard from the Bush campaign, or from the Commission on Presidential Debates, a nonpartisan group that planned the presidential debate schedule that included Wake Forest. The commission has proposed presidential debates in Winston-Salem, Boston, and St. Louis. The panel suggests a vice presidential debate for Danville, Ky.

The university, like other potential hosts of debates, has paid the commission $550,000 to help cover costs of the debate, Cox said. “If there were not a debate, I’m sure we would recover much of that,” Cox said.

Cox said he hopes that university officials will talk to the commission Monday. Commission members have a scheduled visit in Winston-Salem on Wednesday, but it’s unclear now if they will still come.

If the presidential debate is held at Wake Forest, it would mark the second time that such an event has occurred on the campus. In 1988, Democrat Michael Dukakis debated Republican George Bush, the father of George W. Bush, at Wake Forest’s Wait Chapel.

---

Man’s old fraternity house now houses his start-up company

By SCOTT ANDERSON
The Ann Arbor News

ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) — When you open the iron gate and step through the chapel-like arched door, you almost expect to hear a chorus of Gregorian monks echo through the walls. The ornate stained glass seems to filter the air with a sense of history. Every step creaks as you walk, summoning a presence of the past.

Then you remember — this is aFormer fraternity house. Wait a minute, it’s actually a tech start-up. To Dick Beedon, CEO of the new firm Sporglt, it’s both. The Ann Arbor entrepreneur is rare proof that you can go home again, or at least start a business there. The story behind the speech data software company started in the mid-70s, when Beedon was a student at the University of Michigan and restarted the dormant Delta Kappa Epsilon chapter. He partied many a night in the old meeting house, found in a quiet cove on William Street near the corner of State Street. Gerald Ford, U.S. president at the time and a DKE himself, even stopped by the fraternity house in 1974 when he gave a commencement speech at the university.

Following graduation in 1976, Beedon went to California, where he literally wandered into IBM to see if they were hiring. They were. After stints with other firms as a sales representative, Beedon quit working for others and created a CD-ROM program about Notre Dame football. Other Big 10 colleges were soon interested and the venture turned into a college sports website, http://www.FansOnly.com. Just a year ago, after merging FansOnly.com with Student Advantage, which went public, Beedon decided to return to Ann Arbor after getting engaged to a local woman.

Beedon said he got the bug to create another company, which he planned to locate on the East Coast and manage from Michigan. Those plans changed drastically when he received a call from DKE executive director David Easlick, who told Beedon he was looking for a tenant to rent the fabled fraternity house. Beedon jumped at the chance. “I lost a lot of brain cells in this building—I hope I can get a few of them back,” said Beedon, an enthusiastic yet easygoing man who’s quick with a funny story.

The Sporglt lease, which is up in December, has helped the organization gain revenue on the property and pay off property taxes, Easlick said. “It turned out to be a pretty good deal for both of us,” said Easlick, who plans to rent out the building for special occasions after Sporglt vacates. Renovating the house, which was built in 1878, took some doing before it could be home to eight workstations and a rustic conference room. The building has been refurbished and rewired to accommodate the 13 or so tech employees, serving as the R&D lab for Sporglt. Another seven employees work from offices at another location.

“You should’ve seen these floors,” chuckled Beedon as he gave a tour of the DKE house. “There were about four or five layers of beer soaked in the wood.” But the jokes stop when Beedon talks about the possibilities of his new company. He’s already raised $3 million in seed money, mostly through Michigan friends and assorted family investors. Beedon said deals are in the works to gain another $15 million in venture capital.

Sporglt, which stands for “speech, organize it,” is a voice-automated service geared toward the mobile professional. Beedon took his experience as a sales rep with IBM for the Sporglt model. The road-weary salesperson usually doesn’t want to cap a busy day by sitting in front of a laptop to update accounts, Beedon said. “I know all the excuses, because I used to give them,” he said. “They all say the same things: ‘Do you want me to talk to customers or do you want me to update these files?’”

Using cell or land phones with the Sporglt program, sales workers can access and tweak their schedules, update accounts, and find out information on clients. In a computer-generated demonstration, the Sporglt voice system can read the common language of the caller, without any technical jargon or specialized grammar. The system also uses caller identification, voice recognition, and passwords to ensure security, Beedon said. Beedon hopes to have a completed version of the software by October. Although the company is still in its infancy and without any customers, Beedon said heavy hitters, including IBM, are interested. “I really think it’s a revolutionary product, not an evolutionary product,” he said.