By Setu Davis, News Editor

“Its mathematical, but its not difficult,” says Judge Vic Fleming. This Little Rock, Arkansas judge is referring to calculating a
person’s Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC). During his forty-five minute presentation after the men’s basketball game on Thursday, January 20, Judge
Fleming explained to a crowd composed largely of freshmen the important mathematical principles behind responsible drinking.

In his words, Fleming was “giving out the information that no one else is giving out.” For him, the crusade
against irresponsible and dangerous drinking is that simple. It's all about information.

One drink is 1.25 oz. of 80 proof liquor, 12 oz. of beer, or 5 oz. of table wine. Subtract
.01% for each 40 minutes of drinking.

Martin Luther King, Jr. Day (from page 1)

Children’s Defense Fund delivered the Reynolds lecture on Monday night. Her appearance began a trend that Dean Jeffries believes will
continue. Future MLK Day celebrations will be planned around a speaker. Edelman spoke informally with a group that afternoon in
the 900 Room of the College Union before addressing the Davidson community at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Dr. Edelman, whom The Washington Post has deemed “the most influential children’s advocate in the country,” has recently published Lanterns:
A Memoir of Mentors, in which she discusses leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr. whose philosophy helped shape her.
In her informal conversation with the group in the 900 Room, Edelman proclaimed, “I am absolutely obsessed with developing a
generation of leaders.” She explained the mission of the Children’s Defense Fund is to “leave no children behind.” Good examples
in the home and schools are important for children. “Children don’t do what we tell them. They do what we
do,” she explained.

Edelman discussed building multi-racial leadership in high schools and colleges. She suggested the importance of service, advocacy, and activist groups,
citing “a hunger for groups to...” She also recommended the teaching of a non-violence philosophy. Non-violence, Edelman explained, would appear
as a theme in her lecture later that evening. She encouraged further gun control, giving statistics that “every two hours
a child is killed by a gun.” She looked to the building of a “spiritual will” to counter violence. Edelman
added that much ignorance still exists on who is killed by guns. “It is nonsensical that we regulate toys and
children’s products yet not guns. We need to make this a moral issue and lobby at the local level,” she
said.

Davidson's President Bobby Vagt asked Edelman, “How, after 26 years, have you not lost your verve?” In response, she again
stressed the importance of “building a spiritual will.” Besides tangible poverty, Edelman spoke of countering the larger problem of children’s
“poverty of spirit.” She expanded, “Children present the starkest challenge to our faith and common sense. We cannot save ourselves
if we don’t save our country.”

The Reynolds Lecture

Later that night, Dr. Elizabeth Mills, English Professor and Chair of the Speakers Committee, welcomed the audience to Edelman’s Reynolds
Lecture in Love Auditorium. She thanked those who made Edelman’s visit possible and invited the audience to a reception and
book signing in Chamber’s Gallery following the lecture. President Vagt introduced Dr. Edelman by “beginning with the basics.” He spoke
of the Children’s Defense Fund, which she founded in 1973 and which she still serves as President. She attended Spelman
College and Yale Law School. Vagt also mentioned that Edelman was the first black woman to pass the Mississippi State
Bar and served as counsel to the Poor People’s March, led by Martin Luther King, Jr. She also chaired the
Center for Law and Education at Harvard University and organized the March on Washington for Children.

Edelman began by calling upon the audience to “follow Martin Luther King, Jr. rather than just celebrate him.” Family had
an early and lasting influence on Edelman. She mentioned other mentors in her life that served as co-parents. From the
guidance of those that surrounded her, Edelman said, “I learned that I could knock down hurdles for girls, especially black
girls.” Her mentors were not just people with doctorates from Yale or Harvard, Edelman stressed, for “You can get all
A’s and still flunk life.”

Martin Luther King, Jr., appropriately, had a great impact on Edelman. “He taught young people that they could be uncertain
and not have answers,” she said, “but to just take a step forward and leave the rest to God.” He
spoke in chapel while she was a student at Spelman, where he encouraged students to keep a positive force forward,
as Edelman said, “We often stall morally.”

Highlighting the sharp contrasts between rich and poor in this country, Edelman explained that the U.S. ranks 18th in the
gap between rich and poor children, and 16th in living conditions for the poorest children. “The poorest group of Americans
is children, living in the richest country in the world—and that is wrong,” Edelman emphasized. She added, “Children in homeless
shelters have no sense of place, privacy, and private property. How can we then expect them to have respect for
others' private...property?” Edelman also cited a disparity in healthcare, as the U.S. leads the world in health technology, yet has
the highest infant mortality rate. Returning to the gun-control topic discussed earlier that afternoon, Edelman spoke of a choice between
non-violence and non-existence. She stressed the importance of voting for the children. “Children can’t vote or lobby so we must
do it for them,” she said. Modern America lacks a spiritual community and family support, in Edelman’s view. Besides impoverished
children, Edelman equally worries about affluent children who may “have too much and may suffer a deeper poverty: of spirit.”
Education is key to Edelman’s vision of reform, as she asserted the importance of teachers. “Teaching is the most noble
profession—it’s what our young people need. It’s not just a job, but a mission to fulfill a crucial need for
our children,” Dr. Edelman said. She encouraged the audience to reach out to children, for them to “emulate a mentor
and see what it means to be a human being.” Edelman stressed that “all children are sacred in the eyes
of God and racism, sexism, and classism fall.” She closed her speech by leading the audience in prayer.

When asked about abortion during the question and answer period, Edelman said, “I won't make a stand on abortion, because
my main concern is children here on earth. Regardless of whether we are pro-choice or pro-life, we should all be
pro-child,” she answered. “I thought it was a very good lecture and she said a lot of things that we
should take into consideration,” says sophomore class president Joey Harris. Edelman’s new book is Lanterns: A Memoir of Mentors.

Was Judge Fleming successful in getting his message across? For Boyd Stephenson, a freshman from Little Rock, Judge Fleming’s program
was successful in part because of mathematics, but also because of his real-life stories of irresponsible drinking. “For me, the
more swaying parts of his [Judge Fleming’s] argument were... the stories... it definitely made an impression on me,” Boyd says.
Others were not so sure that Judge Fleming’s program was an unqualified success. “The numbers were real shocking... but I
don’t think it’s really going to change the way that anybody drinks,” says freshman Sean Gantt.

Fleming, father of junior Elizabeth Fleming, carries his message across the country with a wry sense of humor. Besides appearing
before crowds of college, high school, and middle school students with his “Why 2 Kegs?” program, Fleming also writes a
humor column that appears in a Little Rock paper. He has authored seven books. Many, such as Perry's Dead! (And
the “Juice” Is Loose) and Real Lawyers Do Change Their Briefs, poke fun at American law. During his presentation, Judge
Fleming tells the story of a Canadian who ate his underwear in the hopes that it would lower his BAC.
When he appears in front of students, Fleming combines his sense of humor with the seriousness of his subject. Binge
drinking, according to statistics that Fleming cites, is responsible for more than 40-50 college student deaths every year. In addition,
alcohol abuse can lead to violence and date rape.

In light of these alcohol-related problems, Judge Fleming made a promise when he ran for the position of traffic judge
in Little Rock. He promised to work on educating the populace in order to keep more children and adults out
of trouble. His promise has taken him farther than he originally expected: He has been featured in “The Rotarian” magazine
and on Good Morning America. He was awarded the Pulaski County Bar Association’s “Outstanding Municipal Judge of the Year” recognition
in 1999. While he seeks to put the mathematical information out there, Fleming also stresses responsibility and common sense. When
offenders appear in his court, he talks at length with them about alcohol use and abuse, addiction, and the value
of even-headed thinking. He offers them a choice: go three months without drinking and come back to court with proof
and your fine will be lessened. Fleming will be up for reelection as traffic judge of Little Rock soon. He
hopes to win reelection and to continue his cross-country crusade against the ills of irresponsible drinking.

Vike Anderson

Dr. Marian Wright Edelman fields a question in the 900 Room.

N.C. State chemist to lecture

By Seta Davis
News Editor

Marye Anne Fox will deliver this year’s Henry Louis Smith lecture when she presents “Transforming Undergraduate Science Education” tonight at
8:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery. Dr. Fox is a physical organic chemist and the twelfth Chancellor of North Carolina
State University. Dr. Fox has committed herself to the development of the National Science Board and the Chair of this
board’s Committee on Programs and Plans. Dr. Fox holds a spot as a fellow of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Nor has her influence been felt only in the
American sciences. Internationally, she is a foreign member of the Royal Academy of Arts and Sciences of Barcelona. In addition
to this honor, Dr. Fox was a Professeur Invitee at the Universite Pierre et Marie Curie.
