By Wit ROBERSON; Sports Editor

Sportsmanship has taken quite a beating in the media recently. The press has been all over Terrell Owens, Emmitt Smith,
the USA men's 4x100 relay team, and the USA men’s basketball team for recent displays viewed as “bad sportsmanship.”

Owens and Smith got in an altercation last week during the 49ers-Cowboys game. Owens scored a touchdown, and proceeded to
run to mid-field and spike the ball on the Cowboys’ logo, and point skyward. Obviously spurred by Owens’ antics, Smith
proceeded to mimic the display after a touchdown of his own. After scoring again later in the game, Owens sprinted
to the star to perform once again. This time, however, Cowboys safety George Teague followed Owens to mid-field and flattened
him during his performance. Teague was ejected, and Owens was suspended for the next game for “conduct detrimental to the
team.”

Was Owens in the wrong? Probably. Many people have scored touchdowns in the past and reacted with much less vivacity.
But he did fire up his teammates and lead them to a 41-24 victory. Were Smith and Teague in the
wrong for defending their home field? I would say no. But I would also say that a better way to
defend their home turf would be to prevent Owens from scoring touchdowns and not have to worry about him celebrating.

Perhaps the most blatant lack of sportsmanship was shown by the 4x100 relay team. After securing their gold medals, the
team of Maurice Greene, Jon Drummond, Bernard Williams, and Brian Lewis paraded around the stadium flexing their biceps and baring
their chests. Once on the podium, the foursome proceeded to goof off and show off for the cameras while the
Star-Spangled Banner was played in their honor. This is the worst kind of display—preening around after having already secured victory.
I would tend to give Owens more leeway because his actions happened during the game, and self and team motivation
were still hanging in the balance.

The Dream Teamers have been the victims of hypocrites throughout their 3-Olympic existence. Other than the omnipotent ‘92 team, when
they win by too much (Dream Teams II & III) they are bullies winning boring games. In the 2000 Olympics,
they become lackadaisical sleepwalkers lucky to win. Any time the team showed any intensity (like Vince Carter flexing after a
dunk or confronting a Russian), they are criticized. Any time they let the world keep it close (said a Lithuanian,
“They’re treating this like a vacation”), they are criticized. So what are the 12 millionaires to do? As Vince put
it, “We didn’t lose. I don’t care what the world says. Look at the scoreboard.” I agree with Carter 100
percent. There is a line as to how far one can go. Each individual’s line is extended with success.

Former heavyweight champion Rocky Marciano said, “You’re not in the ring to display your courage. You’re in there to win
the fight.” And, Larry Bird won the contest. Being brash and confident is how he pumped himself up. And he
backed it up. Once the game was over, so was the talk. So, do not look at Terrell Owens as
a villain. He did his job—he scored two touchdowns and won. He surely could have done it with more class,
but he won nevertheless.

Remember the motto of Oakland Raiders owner Al Davis: “Just win, baby.” Michael Jordan had no equal on the court,
and therefore could do basically whatever he wanted. Jordan talked as much trash as anyone in history, but was virtually
never criticized for it. Why? Because he always backed it up.

I lost a lot of respect for Keyshawn Johnson recently, because he mouthed off to Wayne Chrebet and the Jets
and then got beat. Had he backed his talk up and won the game, I would have gained respect for
him. That’s the risk one takes when they are bold enough to open their mouth. Before a three-point contest, Larry
Bird walked into the locker room full of competitors and said, “So, who’s gonna get second?” That statement took a
lot of courage. But as villain. He did his job—he scored two touchdowns and won. He surely could have done
it with more class, but he won nevertheless.

Remember the motto of Oakland Raiders owner Al Davis: “Just win, baby.” To Emmitt Smith and George Teague: get the
job done on the field and you won’t have to worry about anything else. To the 4x100 relay team: you
were an embarrassment. Once the contest is over, so is all the extra activity. Especially during the national anthem. To
the USA Basketball team: Let’s come back in 2004 with some attitude. Let’s beat people by 50. If it takes
talking a little bit to pump yourselves up, so be it. We should sport a team of Allen Iverson, Latrell
Sprewell, Chris Webber, Vince, and Shaq, and not worry about our image as much. The team will be criticized no
matter what happens, so let’s just take care of business.

As baseball Hall of Famer Lou Brock once said, “Show me someone who’s afraid to look bad, and I’ll show
you someone I can beat every time.”

Reader’s Response: Be careful.With the G.O.A.T.

With all due respect to my good friend Will Roberson, giving Vince Carter credit for the six best dunks of
all time is like saying Jeff George is the best quarterback in the NFL because he has the strongest arm.
Both ideas are ludicrous. I am a sports purist. I am a traditionalist. I love history and I love statistics.
Just ask any of my teammates on the baseball team. It is because of this affinity for the past that
I disagree with Will kowtowing to the MTV-generation in his most recent editorial piece.

I have seen video clips of each dunk Will included on his list. The dunks by Vince Carter are all
amazing. His sheer athleticism is an incredible thing to watch. The combination of grace and power, as Will alluded to,
is something the game hasn’t seen in a long time. I can’t deny any of that. My problem with his
selections is that most of the dunks meant nothing. So Vince Carter jumped over some really tall French guy. So
what? It’s a good thing he dunked over the guy and got his team pumped up, because if he hadn’t
they may have only won by 10 points and, surprise surprise, still won the gold medal. Talk about saving face.

Saying that dunk, or any of Vince Carter’s dunks, are in the top three is like saying that Mark McGwire’s
longest home run was “greater” than the one that broke Roger Maris’ record. Or that a 65-yard bomb from Randall
Cunningham to Randy Moss in Week 3 is a “greater” touchdown pass than the 15-yarder from Joe Montana to Dwight
Clark in the ‘82 NFC Championship game. Just because the play was powerful or physically superior doesn’t make it the
greatest (and by the way, I’m not even going to waste my time commenting on the #2 G.O.A.T. dunk that
took place in a summer league pickup game—come on now).

I’m sure many of you have seen Willie Mays’ famous over-the-shoulder catch. You know, the one where he sprinted to
the wall, caught the ball with his back to home plate, and hurled a throw back to the infield to
keep a runner from scoring. Now, why was that a better catch than one of the many diving or climbing
plays that Andruw Jones or Jim Edmonds have made? Because Mays’ catch meant something. It had implications on something more
than a highlight reel. Mays made the play in Game One of the 1954 World Series. And it was to
preserve a 3-3 tie. It may not have been the most awe-inspiring catch, but it certainly was the G.O.A.T.

So, without further ado, here is a purist’s list of the top five dunks of all time:

5) Vince Carter at the 2000 Olympics. In the grand scheme of things, it meant very little. It was, however,
one of the most incredible feats in the history of sport.

4) Woody Harrelson’s dunk at the end of White Men Can’t Jump. It gave hope to millions of white men
and boys around the world. Even if it was a 9-foot rim.

3) Michael Jordan over the Knicks and Patrick Ewing. Will included this dunk at #9 on his list, but he
failed to mention it was during an incredible playoff series between two bitter rivals on national television and at Madison
Square Garden. Oh, and that the series could easily have gone either way. It propelled the Bulls to another NBA
Championship.

2) Julius Erving’s windmill slam from the left side. This was the first real highlight film dunk. Vince Carter is
Dr. J’s contemporary. No one combined grace and power like Erving. This powerful dunk opened the door for Jordan and
everyone else.

1) Michael Jordan in the 1988 Dunk Contest. This is the famous dunk from the foul line that has been
played over and over and over and put on millions of posters. Yes, this dunk was in a Dunk Contest
and would seem to refute my earlier point about Vince’s trio of slams in last year’s exhibition. This dunk is
#1, however, because without it, and without Jordan, there wouldn’t have even been a contest for Vince Carter to dunk
in. Jordan made dunking what it is today. He made it cool (Editor’s Note: Carter's dunk made hurdling 7-foot Frenchmen
cool). Jordan’s dunk revolutionized the sport. It helped bring millions of fans to the television every night to watch SportsCenter
and similar highlight shows. That one dunk sold hundreds of millions of shoes. It was a dunk that has affected
sports ever since the day it occurred.

Vince Carter’s dunks are fun to watch, but they don’t mean anything—not yet, at least. Jordan is the slam dunk
king, and this dunk is the best of them all.

Steve Aldrich ‘02

DAVIDSON BASKETBALL

RE-LIVE THE EXCITEMENT!!

“MATINEE MADNESS”

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14

BELK ARENA 5:30-7:30

Come join the Men & Women Wildcats as they begin their journey to excellence with their 1st day of practice

DUNK & 3 POINT CONTESTS!

FREE STUFF! FOOD!

For more info, call x2369
