Menkhaus philanthropy course one of many new offerings for spring

By ZEB KELLEY
Staff Writer

Preparations for next year have already begun, as the Davidson faculty recently approved several new courses. New courses include “Philanthropy
and the Non-profit Sector,” offered by the political science department and taught by Dr. Ken Menkhaus. Two classes in the
religion department include “Art of Biblical Narrative” and “Jewish Religious Life,” and a generic listing for W-courses has been added
in the history department.

Menkhaus says his “Philanthropy and the Non-Profit Sector” course, offered for next semester, is especially relevant in today’s world. “There
are currently 1.6 million registered non-profit (organizations) in the U.S. alone,” he said. “They account for an increasing portion of
national employment, 11% of total employment.” He added that “non-profits are accruing around

Quips and Cranks

Interested in getting to know more of your fellow Davidson students? Do you like design, art or photography? Join the
Yearbook Staff! We are looking for some people to supplement the Sports section, faculty section, and sophomore section. Time commitment
is minimal, especially if you sign up to work on a section with some friends. There are also positions available
as business manager and senior ads editor. Please contact Nathaniel Rogers (x6010) or Lindsey Vaala (x6206) if interested. No experience
necessary.

EAC

This coming Thursday, November 16, Summit Coffee will be sponsoring a presentation and slide show by Fred Barth, an accomplished
mountaineer who has summitted Everest, among many other achievements. His talk will begin at 7:30 pm in the 900 Room.
The EAC Meeting at 9 pm will follow in the Conference Room! The EAC also held Recycling Day today, with
a number of recycling events to promote awareness on campus. More on the events will come in the next issue.

Anthropology Society

This week, the Anthropology Society will be sponsoring two major events highlighting the Native American culture. On Thursday, November 16,
starting at 8:00 PM in the 900 Room, there will be a presentation entitled “Modern Native American Survival.” On Saturday,
November 18, there will be a Native American dance performance, starting at 4:00 PM in the 900 Room.

PCC

The PCC is sponsoring the “Community Thanksgiving Dinner” this Sunday, November 19th from 2-5 pm at Roosevelt Wilson Park on
Griffith Street in Davidson. This event is open to the entire College and town. There will be tons of food
and games, so please come join us, and bring your friends, professors, students, kids, dog, WHOMEVER, to give thanks together.
Any questions can be directed to Mike Schaefer x6038 or Ida Wainschel x6219.

English Majors’ Presentations

On Tuesday, November 28 and Thursday the 30, roughly 45 of the English majors will be presenting their final projects
in panels during the course conference. Three panels will be in session at 1 pm and again at 2:10 pm
on both days in Chambers 316, 309, and 212. Creative projects will be presented Tuesday evening at 7:30 in Perkins
Auditorium. Since politics has taken center stage as of late, we decided to continue the trend. David Farnum will be
presenting a critical look at the speeches from the major party candidates. Alicia Shelton will also examine the current political
issues with a debate between Shakespeare’s Richard III and Willie Stark (All the King’s Men), played by Davidson.seniors Brandt McMillan
and Ed Ellington. If you like music, Travis Martz will present four different versions of a Dylan song and explain
how performance changes based on political setting. Even the popular film genre will be represented through Jamey Heit’s analysis of
a poem in Braveheart and Ambrose Tuscano’s exploration of Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil.

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALDPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989
ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A 20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE
EXAMS.
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR
DEAN & DE LUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

powerful influence as advocacy groups, shaping public policy debates and pressuring businesses,” and “non-profits constitute the backbone of civil society
and community development in neighborhoods across the country.”

“Most Davidson students have personal experience in the non-profit sector as volunteers and members of various civic organizations, and many
will assume positions of influence in the non-profit sector.” Since this class was available for the spring semester, it might
be a possibility during the drop/add stage of scheduling. College registrar Dr. Hansford Epes said courses are added based on
suggestions from the departments and the Education Policy Committee (EPC), which can either send the classes back for clarification or
approve them immediately.

“When it approves the course, it sends the proposal to the full faculty for its vote,” Epes said. “The process
is ongoing and routine; most meetings of the EPC, roughly every couple of weeks, will look at one or more
course proposals, as will most of the faculty’s monthly meetings.” The EPC is a committee of six elected members chaired
by the Dean of the Faculty. Two of the members are students selected by the SGA Senate.

David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott
By David WHEELER
Health Advisor

On Thursday, November 30 until midnight December 1, Davidson will remember those who have died or are suffering from AIDS/HIV
with its recognition of World AIDS Day. That evening, luminaries will be placed throughout the campus in memory of friends,
loved ones, students, and faculty who have in some way been affected by the disease. The memorial is considered a
somber and beautiful one. Georgia Ringle and Mary Thornberry, the Student Body Health Advisors, are, from left to right: Stephanie
Courchesne, Rebecca Moore.

A Classics professor, Steven Lonsdale, who died of AIDS, began this “Night of Light” in memory of those affected by
the disease. Along with Professor Lonsdale, the event highlights six reasons: (1) men represent the majority of people living with
HIV/AIDS; (2) men’s behavior often puts their sexual partners at risk for HIV; (3) unprotected sex endangers men’s male and
female partners; (4) men need to give greater consideration to AIDS as it affects their families; and (5) men often
do not give adequate attention to their own health. President Clinton writes the theme “calls on all men around the
world to embrace a new leadership role not only in prevention, but also in the care of their children and
other loved ones whose lives are affected by the disease.”
