“The South’s Foremost College Weekly.” ESTABLISHED 1914

Mock trial team coverage. NEWS 2
Who wants to be a schmuck? OPINIONS 7
Swimmers drown Duke! SPORTS 10

Cable TV sparks controversy
By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

Answering a call from the Student Government Association, the administration is moving to increase the number of lounges in the
residence halls. Furthermore, President Vagt has agreed to continue investigation into a proposal for cable television in all dorm rooms.
The resolutions, submitted by sophomore class president Joey Harris on November 9, have met with mixed reactions. Student leaders insist
that both proposals are popular and important, but the administration has seemingly embraced the lounge proposal while shying away from
the call for cable television.

Harris’ first proposal requested “that the administration explore the option of providing cable television access to every dorm room.” The
second requested the creation of “more lounges...in each of the residence halls.” Both resolutions garnered popular support from the student
body and passed the SGA by overwhelming majorities.

Vagt & Shandley visit SGA. President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley addressed both issues at the November
16th meeting of the SGA. Both administrators eagerly received the lounge resolution but showed reticence towards the idea of cable
in all student rooms. Vagt agreed, “We don’t have enough lounges...I am fully prepared to sit down with Kurt (Holmes,
the Director of Residence Life) to respond to that in the best way we can.” The college’s 16th president stressed
the need for a sustained community atmosphere at Davidson. Vagt cited “the row” dorms (Cannon, Little, Sentelle, and Watts) as
especially lacking in adequate community space.

By Lauren DANIEL
Staff Writer

The Carolina Foothills Battalion, an Army ROTC unit that includes Davidson College, recently received the Douglas MacArthur Leadership Award. Under
the command of LTC Michael Alexander, the program (headquartered at UNC Charlotte) emerged at the top of 101 mid-sized East
Coast schools from Miami to Maine. The award recognizes excellence in ROTC units based upon the number of students enrolled
and retained each year, the ratings its cadets receive at advance camp during the summer, and the number of students
commissioned.

Foothills Battalion was considered against such fine institutions as VMI, The Citadel, and North Georgia College. Lieutenant Colonel Alexander recognized,
“It’s the people that really make this program go.” Major William Geiger, Davidson’s assistant professor of military studies, humbly diverts
praise toward his cadets. “Without outstanding cadets like Darisse Bowden, Sara Rothermel, Dave Kaufman, Kurt Yusi, Andy Blanton, Ross Boyce,
Lauren Schultz, Adam Soto, and many others, this award would have been difficult to win. I am particularly proud of
the effort each cadet puts into the program.”

“These kids get a hard education,” LTC Alexander said. “They’ll benefit from that discipline. Their Army careers will benefit from
the challenges they face here at Davidson.”approaching the cable television proposal with reluctance. Vagt joined some student voices claiming that
cable television would further diminish student interaction by causing many to remain locked in their dorm rooms. “When we’ve had
problems as a community,” Vagt said, “they haven’t come from us having too much interaction with each other. They’ve come
from too little interaction.” Shandley shared those concerns, fearing cable might “further isolate this community.” Despite these concerns, both administrators
have agreed to continue dialogue with Harris and other student government leaders.

Bring on the lounges...
SGA representatives and college administrators have come to a virtual consensus concerning the resolution to increase the number of lounges.
Foster Haselden, SGA president, stated that he was “pleased that [the administration] agreed to get more lounges” and added that
he thought this was a concrete, positive step forward for students and for the SGA. Vagt agreed that there was
a real need for more lounge space and expressed his commitment to making that happen. Kurt Holmes, Director of Residence
Life, also expressed a strong interest in adding more lounges. Holmes remarked that the single lounge on the first floor
of the row dorms is entirely insufficient. But, he explains, “We're struggling with what to do next fall.” The SGA
proposal suggested that the school aims to have one lounge per hall. Holmes agrees that this is a promising long-term
goal, but cost and space constrictions will stall any attempts to make that goal a reality in the immediate future.
“There is neither money nor time to do the kind of renovation necessary, and there are not enough rooms to
make up for the lost bed space.” He presented two possible temporary alternatives. First, he said that students “down the
hill” seem to find that one lounge for every two floors is sufficient, a system that could presently be arranged
in the row dorms. Another option might be converting some normal double rooms into smaller lounge areas instead of knocking
down walls between rooms to create the larger spaces found in the existing lounges.

Harmless entertainment? Or brain-melting video waves?
While all sides seem to share a common voice regarding the lounge proposal, the suggestion of cable access for every
student has sparked some contentious debate. Harris recalled that exploration of cable as an option was among the SGA’s top
goals for the academic year. The sophomore class president framed the issue as a question of personal choice and explained
that the SGA felt an obligation to follow up on matters of popular interest among students. First, he commented that
students generally complain about the caliber of reception they receive in their room through ordinary antenna use. Providing cable access,
he asserted, would “allow people more opportunity to watch what they want to watch when they want to watch it.”
He claimed, moreover, that Davidson students are clearly responsible enough.

See Cable TV, continued on page 2.

Davidson, NC 28036
