It is wonderful working in an atmosphere of trust and respect.
--Dr. VERNA JEAN CASS, BIOLOGY

The honor code sets a tone for interaction between students and faculty.
--Dr. PETER HESS, ECONOMICS

I love working under an honor code and would be willing to make extra efforts to support it.
--DR. MALCOLM CAMPBELL, BIOLOGY

Students and faculty can share a sense that learning is a joint enterprise, not a battle of wits over whether students will get away with cheating.
--Dr. RUTH AULT, PSYCHOLOGY

The honor code liberates and empowers all of us.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FEATURES

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

The Honor Code at Davidson isn’t always cut and dry...

PERSPECTIVES ON THE HONOR CODE AT DAVIDSON

By CARRIE RILEY
Features Editor

While some see the Honor Council as a frightening entity, out for the blood of the presumed-guilty infractors of the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility, proponents maintain the Council is one of Davidson’s most vital institutions.

The Council actually protects many of the students’ freedoms - the freedom to leave our doors unlocked, to take tests in the comfort of our own rooms, to relate to professors without fear of their automatically doubting us.

But it does this by trying the ones of us who are charged with breaking the standard on which these freedoms are based.

“The Honor Council is in a hard place,” says William Terry, former student, chaplain, and Dean of Students; the members are honor-bound to not discuss the trials they judge, even when their own reputations are being maligned.

Since the Council is comprised entirely of students, trials have a personal impact on the members of the sitting panel. But while the defendant is accused of wronging the entire student body, the members of the Council also recognize the lasting impact their sanction will have on the life of the accused.

This regard for the defendant will sometimes cause trials to last four or more hours, even when the accused pleads guilty.

For this reason, the members of the Council will hear mitigating circumstances and see the case in shades of gray, instead of merely black and white. They have the leeway to adjust sanctions depending on the infraction; sanctions range from apology to referral to community service to suspension.

VMI, on the other hand, is not quite as user-friendly. According to a Davidson administrator, they have a single-sanction code — their only punishment is dismissal from the university. They do not have the same guarantee of privacy that we do; if found guilty, the entire student body escorts them to the gates of the campus.

While Davidson’s student-run Honor Council does consider the effect their sanctions have on the accused, the members also consider the offense directed to the members of the Davidson community at large.

Tom Shandley, Dean of Students, told of the infamous “Coke Trial,” where two students were accused of stealing from a vending machine that dispensed some soft drinks without the students paying for them. This merely resulted in community service (not suspension, as the rumor has it).

However, Shandley mentioned, students have been suspended for stealing from the Union Café.

The difference? Theft from the Café affects many more people than a broken vending machine; it endangers the trust between the workers and all the students that frequent the Café. (Hence the fact that we can no longer pay before receiving our food.)

Shandley also spoke of an incident involving several freshmen who knowingly walked out of a local restaurant without paying their bill and were reported by several upperclassmen. They received social probation for the rest of the year (meaning they could not attend any parties on the Court, Union functions, or sporting events).

This case was judged this harshly not because of the $1.40 that the first-years tried to walk away from, but because of the impression that the workers of the restaurant would have of all Davidson students from that time.

Since our school is basically founded on this standard of honor, we not only must maintain it among ourselves as students: it must be upheld in the entire community of Davidson, and some would argue the world as well.

The Code and Council allow us to learn from our mistakes; as Dean Terry says, the anonymity associated with punishments “allows people to go their way and receive forgiveness. The Honor Code works by law and it works by grace... therefore you learn and become a better person for the experience.”

To educate a man in mind but not in morals is to educate a menace to society.
—Thomas Jefferson