THE DAVIDSONIAN

Take it down or leave it up? That is the central question in the controversy raging about the Confederate flag
flying atop the South Carolina Statehouse. As the issue swirls around the country, some fervently argue that the Confederate flag
symbolizes tradition while honoring the soldiers who died in the Civil War. Others vehemently assert that the flag remains a
symbol of hate and oppression. A recent poll conducted among South Carolina voters showed that only a slight majority (52
percent) want the flag removed.

But somewhere between these two strong and steadfast viewpoints lies a third group of people. A group of people who
just cannot make up their minds. A group of people who refuse to take a stand on taking down the
flag. And who are these passive and unopinionated individuals? Frighteningly, they are the people whose jobs are based on voicing
their opinions. They are our political leaders.

Elizabeth Dole cleansed her hands of the controversy stating, “That’s very much a state issue, and, obviously, that’s something the
voters and the people of South Carolina will have to resolve.” Even South Carolina Governor Jim Hodges stalled on taking
a definitive stand, calling for the flag to be “moved from the dome to a place of historical significance on
the statehouse grounds.” Texas Governor George W. Bush, who many consider to be the White House front-runner, took an unctuously
passive stand, “I believe the people of South Carolina can figure out what [to] do with the flag. I don’t
believe it’s the role of someone from outside South Carolina, someone running for President, to come into this state and
tell the people of South Carolina what to do with their business.”

The debate moderator pressed on, “Governor Bush, as a human being, what is your visceral reaction at the sight of
a Confederate flag?” It seemed the governor had no human, visceral reaction.

Taking a stand and taking it down

Telling people “what to do with their business” and deciding between right and wrong has long been the role of
an elected servant. Inevitably, whether justified or not, Americans look to their leaders to promote morality in our country. During
the whole President Clinton—Monica Lewinsky saga, most politicians did not have any qualms about voicing their opinions, condemning President Clinton
for what they considered to be immoral acts or attacking Kenneth Starr for his investigation. Where is the politicians’ moral
stance on the Confederate flag debate? Or is the “morality card” only to be trumped in times of low risk
and little controversy?

America’s presidential hopefuls and South Carolina’s governor seem to have opted for indifference and appeasement rather than decisiveness and conviction.
Dante wrote, “The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who, in a period of moral crisis, maintain their
neutrality.”

We at Davidson do not need to look too far to see the positive results of acting with conviction against
a moral wrong. Just nine months ago, the Student Government Association gave emphatic support to a resolution calling for an
anti-discrimination clause in the Code of Responsibility. Davidson’s political leaders acted decisively in issuing an adamant stance against such hatred
and oppression.

Dr. King said the best leader is someone who not only takes a stand during times of comfort and convenience,
but one that takes a stand during times of conflict and controversy,” described Margaret Rush, president of the South Carolina
Black Chamber of Commerce. The time has come for America’s politicians to stop worrying about pleasing voters and follow Rush’s
advice. The time has come to take a decisive stand on this highly controversial issue. The time has come to
make a decision. Maybe these politicians could learn something from the students of a small liberal arts college in North
Carolina.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
SETH DAVIS
ANN GREGORY

Sports Editor
BURGIN HALL

Executive Layout Editor
BEN COVINGTON

Business Managers
PETER CLARK
JOHN JOHNSTON

Assistant Business Manager
FRANCES PARK

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON
ALISON KALEF

Features Editor
CARRIE RILEY

Op-Ed Editor
ERICA SCHWARTZ

Editor Emeritus
WILL PARKER
MICHAEL KRUSE
WES GOLDSBERRY
CADER HOWARD

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Is it A) Duck, Duck, Goose; B) Duck, Duck, Partridge; C) Duck, Duck, Stalin; or D) Duck, Duck, Duck, Goose?”
The audience becomes deathly quiet and the lights dim and become a new shade. The camera pans from Regis to
Moron #1 as he considers this Herculean test but rather to the entire audience), “Well, I know it is either
Duck, Duck Goose, or Duck, Duck, Duck Goose, but I am just not sure how many ducks there are... I
want to say that it is Duck, Duck, Goose, but since I am the epitome of stupidity, I will use
my lifeline to ask the audience, who is obviously much smarter than I am.”

So begins another night of (you’ve guessed it!) America’s favorite game show, “Who Wants to be a Millionaire.”

I can understand that certain people who were born and raised in the remote pygmy villages of the Congo rain
forest could have trouble discerning the subtle difference between “duck, duck, goose” and “duck, duck, duck goose.” However, moron #1
(the name’s idiotic) is over three feet tall and speaks English rather well, so I can only assume that he
has been exposed to life outside of the remote bastions of cannibalism. As you, my perceptive reader might have guessed,
I am less than pleased with the current genre of game show on television. Yet, night after night, I tune
in. Why is this? I think it deals with some deep need I have to feelOverly superior in every way,
shape, and form, to my fellow Americans. Apparently, I am not alone. If I were, this show would not be
so popular and the questions would not have to be that inane. Ok, whom am I kidding?

The point was the State of the Union address. Picture this: "What is the name of the..." He ponders (not
to himself, names have been removed to protect the innocent). Before it was another thrilling episode wherein a bunch of
moderately-able individuals were given chances to win large sums of money. Someone raised the question of what would have happened
if the show had been on during the State of the Union? Which would have had higher ratings? Unfortunately, we
all agreed that Regis Philbin is more of a draw than the leader of the most powerful nation in the
world (no offense to anyone who hails from Trinidad and Tobago, you guys just keep on truckin’).

Now I have to ask the question: is the problem that our populace enjoys always being right? Or, is it
that they are really perplexed by the complexity of whether the answer is “Duck, Duck, Goose” or “Duck, Duck, Duck,
Goose.” I am not sure which is more frightening, to be perfectly honest. What is the most frightening, however, is
the nuclear holocaust that Regis keeps prophesizing... but I digress...

Don’t get me wrong on Regis. He is a good guy. To stay with his co-host, Kathy Lee, after all
those sweatshop scandals and the fact that her blood is complete caffeine really makes me respect the guy. However, my
respect does not extend to the point that I am willing to watch mindlessly while he mocks my intelligence. So,
consider yourself warned, Mr. Philbin.

Note: Andrew watches this show every friggin’ night and is addicted to it. He acts like George Bush on crack.
Furthermore, it should also be noted that Andrew received a visit from Mr. Philbin’s attorneys and during the meeting “fell
down the stairs.” Please send flowers to the Lake Norman ICU. Finally, I still have not heard a word about
my beloved top hat...

Calling all
By Taylor HERBERT

Let’s face it, here at Davidson we have a finite amount of free time. We all have things that we
have wanted to try or would have done if only we had the time. Personally, I have always felt a
pull between music and service commitments. The time I spend rehearsing with Writing in the Grey (my band) is time
that I cannot spend planning trips for Alternative Breaks and vice versa. Given the number of musicians on this campus
and the number of available service activities, I’m certain that there are others out there with the same problem. Well,
the problem now has a solution. I am getting together a new organization to use music as service. I have
given it the working title Looney Tunes.

The idea is relatively simple. I think that music can be a tool to bring people closer together. For me,
there is an almost spiritual connection that forms when I jam with someone and it really clicks. It’s a feeling
that I can’t get from watching someone else perform, and I think that most other musicians will tell you the
same thing. I want everyone to be able to have the same feeling I get when I’m forming that connection
with another musician. I believe that we can organize a group of students who will be able to go out
into the community and not only perform music, but involve others in the process. Think of the enjoyment we could
bring to places like hospital wards, nursing homes, and elementary schools if we played with them instead of to them.

Music has become a thing that most people watch instead of participate in. They prefer to leave the process to
talented amateurs or professional stars. It does not have to be that way. The best thing about this group is
that everyone can participate. My vision is to have a musicians concert where every member of the audience has a
drum, a rattle, a bell, a whistle, or dare I say it, an accordion. The bottom line is I need
people to be a part of this project. I need people to play the guitar, flute, piccolo, bassoon, tuba, and
even the hambones. I want you if you can sing, drum, bang on stuff, or clap your hands. I need
people to help write, select, and arrange songs. I need people to sit around and tell us we stink so
we can figure out ways to get better. I need people to tell me if I'll get sued for copyright
infringement for calling the group Looney Tunes. I want you even if you think you have no musical talent. I
want you especially because you think you have no musical talent. Some of the best jam sessions I’ve had were
at a paper mill when my co-workers and I started banging on empty paint cans with paint rollers. It brought
us closer together that summer and I think it can work in other settings too. Professors and staff are welcome.
I invite anyone with a pulse to attend our meetings. We as students have the power and talents to enrich
our lives and the lives of others through music. I am really excited about the prospect of this organization; I
really think it can work. I hope to one day expand the scope of this group to encompass things like
free music lessons and getting workshops brought to campus. If you want to be a part of this undertaking, have
any ideas about how things should run, or want to suggest a new name for the group, please come to
our first meeting Sunday, February 6, at 8:00 in the Morison Room or contact me through email: taherbert@davidson.edu.

Sincerely,
Taylor Herbert
