By Jenn Hicains
Staff Writer

Off to the best start in team history, the Davidson Women’s Soccer team (6-1) was prepared to vanquish the Dukes of Duquesne (1-5) in preparation for their approaching conference matchups. Although a non-conference game, this Friday night doubleheader with the men’s team set the stage for exciting soccer action. Not only were the stands filled with 517 enthusiastic fans, but the Davidson women were gaining attention in an even larger national arena. Just a few days prior, the National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSCAA) ranked the Wildcats number 10 in the Southeast region. This impressive list of the week’s best teams in Division I included national powerhouse UNC-Chapel Hill (#1) as well as Southern Conference rival Furman (#6). The NSCAA ranking was the first for the Wildcats since the 1993 season.

Being prepared for a competitive Duquesne team was crucial for the Wildcats considering their previous encounter ended in a 0-0 draw. This did not discourage the Davidson women, who came out shooting. The Wildcats did an excellent job of penetrating the Dukes’ defensive third, getting off a total of 18 shots in the game, and outshooting the Dukes 12 to 1 in the first half alone. With all of this shooting, it wasn’t long before the Wildcats netted their first goal. In the 12th minute, the Wildcats’ leading scorer, Heather Maloney ‘03, went down the wing unassisted to rip a shot past Duquesne goalkeeper Michelle Guna and get the ‘Cats on the scoreboard early. The rest of the first half was filled with intense play as several other Wildcats attempted to get another goal. Leigh Anne Hoskins ‘04 took almost as many shots as the entire Duquesne team with 6.

In an answer to Duquesne’s only goal of the night in the 71st minute off a corner kick, the Maloneys proved the saying, “Anything you can do, I can do better.” Off of a Tara Maloney corner kick, Heather netted her eighth goal of the season and the game-winner. The goalkeeper was unsuccessful in a “diving” effort to keep Duquesne in the game. And when it came down to it, the only stat that was comparable was in the foul category, with each team receiving 17 total. With so much success to date leading into Southern Conference play, head coach Kevin Hundley agrees that the Wildcats are taking it one game at a time. “With such a young team, we have to learn lessons from every game,” said Hundley.

By Anpy LANOHA
Staff Writer

Following a tough 4-0 loss to the North Carolina Tar Heels earlier in the week, the Davidson men’s soccer team responded vigorously in their home opener last Friday night, destroying the Virginia Tech Hokies 5-1. Last Tuesday’s match in Chapel Hill looked to be a clash of early season titans. Davidson came into the match unbeaten following an emotional 3-2 overtime defeat of the Charlotte 49ers. The Tar Heels were also unbeaten and had just knocked off the No. 4 ranked Clemson Tigers. Davidson opened the match flying high looking like they might bring down yet another North Carolina rival.

Things changed quickly, however, at the 13:51 mark when North Carolina’s Chris Carrieri opened the scoring for the Tar Heels. Receiving a pass from Caleb Norkus, Carrieri ripped the ball over the outstretched hand of Davidson keeper Soren Johnson and tallied his third game-winner of the still young season. From this point out, Davidson found themselves chasing a fired-up and goal-hungry UNC team. Freshman Grant Porter waded to the lead in the 30th minute, finding the upper corner on an errant cross from outside the box. Just twelve minutes later, and still in the first half, the Tar Heels moved three goals ahead when sophomore Ryan Kneipper finished a bouncing ball in front of the net. The first half left the ‘Cats reeling. Despite their efforts to...Fight back in the second half, a three-goal lead proved too much for Davidson to surmount. The Tarheels added their fourth in the 75th minute on a penalty kick by senior Michael Bucy. This first loss left Davidson facing a lot of questions before Friday’s home opener. Apparently, they answered them. Davidson left no doubters after Friday’s 5-1 trouncing of the Virginia Tech Hokies. In front of a large and rowdy crowd, the ‘Cats rushed out to an early lead. At the 7:25 mark, junior Jeremy Kilburn headed home a beautifully orchestrated corner kick. Erick Ozimeck set up the goal with a low hard cross that found Chris Norbet on a run to the near post. Norbet flicked the ball on to Kilburn’s head who made no mistake putting it past the Hokies’ helpless keeper.

Freshman Justin Porter added to the lead and the excitement of the game with his first career goal. Perhaps the most impressive shot of the season, Porter pulled the trigger from approximately 25 yards out, splitting two Hokie defenders and questing the ball just inside the post. Davidson brought the 2-0 lead into the locker room at half. Virginia Tech’s Kerl Schlegel attempted to launch a comeback when he scored the Hokies’ lone goal at the 47:27 mark. For several minutes it looked as though the fate of the game might be in question. However, Davidson answered Schlegel’s goal with two goals in one minute, laying all hopes of a Virginia Tech comeback to rest. Junior Jon Teterick got Davidson’s third goal, and his third goal of the season, when he finished a rebound off a Chris Norbet shot. Norbet and Justin Saunders teamed up less than a minute later, sending in a cross that junior Erik Ozimeck finished for his first goal as a Wildcat. The final thirty minutes of the game were all Davidson. Coach Slagle substituted liberally as the game closed but the ‘Cats never lost a step. Davidson’s offense put on a clinic for the Hokies and in the 87th minute, freshman Nick Hansell scored his first collegiate goal, putting in a deflected shot by senior Bryan Garrett. The ‘Cats next face the no. ten nationally ranked University of South Carolina, Wednesday night on Richardson field at 6:15.

The Wildcats head into Southern Conference competition beginning on Friday, September 22nd against Chattanooga at 4 pm in Richardson Stadium. They continue on Sunday, September 24th when they face Western Carolina at 1 pm.

Rankings Press Release

The Davidson College men’s and women’s soccer teams were both ranked for the second consecutive week in the National Soccer Coaches Association of America regional rankings released today. The Davidson men, who host the University of South Carolina Wednesday evening at Richardson Stadium, are ranked ninth in the South Region rankings. The Wildcats are coming off a 5-1 victory over Virginia Tech in the home opener for the men. The team is currently 3-1-1 on the season. The Davidson women moved up one spot to ninth in this week’s rankings. The team, which is 6-1 on the season, defeated Duquesne on Friday evening, 2-1, and faces a Duke team which is ranked in the top-10 this Tuesday at Richardson Stadium on Davidson’s campus. The 6-1 record for the women is the best start through seven games in school history.

Spring Break! Deluxe Hotels, Reliable Air, Free Food, Drinks and Parties! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Mazatlan & Florida. Travel Free and Earn Cash! Do it on the Web! Go to StudentCity.com or call 800-293-1443 for info.