By Extas Kruger

These last few months have been marked by an increasingly protectionist attitude by the United States. Last week was detrimental
to US foreign relations as it ruffled the feathers of both Brazil and the European Union (EU) through its decision
to increase the tax on imported steel. Additionally, the US has been pressuring the EU to import from US-owned Latin
American banana plantations. This form of protectionism was also seen in the unsuccessful World Trade Organization (WTO) meeting last year
in Seattle.

There are several reasons for this renewed protectionism. One of them is the fact that we are in an election
year. It doesn’t look good for the Democratic president nor a majority Republican House and Senate to be allowing foreign
goods to crowd the domestic market. This hurts American industries, which are composed of voters. Another reason is that American
industries, in general, are fearful of third-world competition. They know they cannot compete with their cheap and unending labor. That
is why President Clinton did not want to talk about trade before discussing labor issues in the Seattle meeting. Another
danger is that multinational firms will simply move to those countries, taking with them not only the American market but
also American jobs. With China entering the WTO, these issues become a pressing reality.

Let’s face it. This nation presently enjoys its largest economic expansion ever. It also boasts one of its lowest unemployment
rates. According to economists, this trend does not show any sign of ending. Instead, Alan Greenspan, the Chairman of the
Federal Reserve Board, is increasing interest rates in order to contain consumption and avoid overheating the economy. Then why all
this fear of foreign entrenchment? One must consider that the US does have a deficit in its trade balance. Moreover,
most of the jobs that are being created are not fulfilling the needs of those that are losing jobs. These
new jobs are mostly for highly skilled labor, while the demand for low-skilled labor is decreasing.

Yet, what about the “miraculous and invisible hand” of capitalism? Shouldn’t the whole country benefit from growth even if this
connection cannot initially be made? Is it wrong for a country to prefer and give privileges to its own industries?
According to common sense, no. But according to globalization, yes! That is where the problem lies. The United States has
waved the banner of globalization as an important component of its foreign policy as exhibited by its admittance of China
into the WTO. A few years ago, the Colossus of the North waged trade wars with European countries and Japan
over agricultural products and luxury cars. For example, in the Chablis trade war, France did not want to import genetically
altered agriculture. Yet, in those instances, the US claimed that these countries were going against the principles of free trade.
Therefore, the problem is not American protectionism but its dubious double standard concerning foreign policy. On one hand, the government
presents itself as the defender of the free market and, consequently, free trade. On the other hand, whenever...Faced by domestic
pressure, it becomes truly protectionist. The truth is that no country can really defend free trade completely. Every country will
support free trade as long as it benefits its citizens. This especially holds true for democracies in election periods. I
would like to present one possible alternative to the problem of the rapidly changing world economy. Globalization seems irreversible at
this point no matter how much certain countries would like to stop it. With the growth of telecommunications such as
the Internet, the world moves closer to becoming one economy. Governments should try and use this trend to their advantage
rather than working against it. Thus, they should invest in education and make sure opportunities reach the less privileged. States
must ensure that the same people who lose their jobs because of the transitions in the industries are able to
fulfill the new ones that are being created. This can only be achieved in a highly educated society. This is
a complicated and expensive solution, yet, in the long term, it is still the best solution. Come on Uncle Sam,
lead the way and we will follow.

The author is a sophomore Political Science major from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

---

2004 WILDCAT HANDBOOK

IF YOU ARE:
- Interested in designing and compiling your own publication
- Creative
- ORGANIZED
- Looking for a way to gain practical design and layout experience
- Interested in BEEFING up your resume

APPLY TODAY....

E-mail letter of application and resume to Meg Kimmel, “mekimmel@davidson.edu”

---

NEWS

A double standard in U.S. foreign policy

---

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000

---

Crossword Finger Food
By Trey Davis

Across
1. Trash bag maker
5. Lett and Trotsky
10. Feet
14. Kind of bag
15. Ration
16. Radius partner
17. Smell
18. Legume for a cannibal?
20. “Quick as a fox”
22. First lady
23. Be indebted
24. Hat with a hole in it?
27. Cessation
29. Nametag
32. ___ Mahal
34. Church lady’s word
38. Vein constituent
39. Repents
42. Hoopster Bison
43. Vegetable for a cannibal?
46. Words on Wayne’s World
47. Fifth prime number
48. Vermin
49. Billow
51. Compass pt.
52. They’re for fears?
54. Car help grp.
56. Russian rulers
58. Is plural
61. Computer key
63. Album
67. Sausage for a cannibal?
71. Kind of code
72. Dutch treat
73. Opera highlights
74. Tonight Show host
75. $0.01
76. E-mail option
77. Ladies’ magazine

Down
1. Classic Pontiacs
2. CCR song
3. Tiny particle
4. Get out of
5. HOMES, for example
6. Inventor Whitney
7. Antediluvian
8. Nary
9. Garvey or Guttenberg
10. Tape
11. Margarine
12. Chew through
13. Playing with a full deck
19. Desires
21. Purple flower
25. Actress Annette
26. Smelliest
28. Art school
29. Shells out cash
30. Dart
31. Actress Davis
33. Butler’s name
35. ___ cotta
36. Church area
37. Aeries
40. Article
41. Word with devil or bop
44. Spanish island
45. Spanish between
50. Den
53. The Pina Colada Song
55. Egyptian prez Sadat
57. Bohemian
58. Actor Baldwin
59. Carnival attraction
60. Actress ___ Rachel Wood
62. Old Spice competitor
64. Kind of exam
65. Word with world or get
66. Lost Colony surname
68. Paramedic
69. Epitaph letters
70. Actor Mineo
