BY ANDY LANOHA
Staff Writer

“It ain’t over ‘til the fat lady sings.” Or, there is the ever thought-provoking, “It ain’t over ‘til it’s over.” Whatever your favorite “never say die” cliché is, the Davidson Men’s soccer team proved its truth last Thursday night. With only 19 seconds to play, Davidson’s Pat Miller headed in a corner kick that evened the match at 2-2 and set the stage for a thrilling 3-2 sudden death victory over the Charlotte 49ers.

Junior forward Chris Norbet put in the game-winner just three minutes into the overtime period. “Once we got that second goal, we knew they were gonna die,” recalled Norbet.

That final goal, Norbet’s second of the season, not only ended Davidson’s six-year losing streak against Charlotte, but also brought Coach Charlie Slagle his 200th career victory.

“Coming from behind against one of our biggest rivals, it was an exciting way to get 200.” Slagle furthered, “It is a nice milestone, another notch in the longevity belt and another ice bucket on the back.”

Though it ended blissfully, the ‘Cats opened the contest falling behind by two goals. The 49ers’ Juan Munoz-Airey opened the scoring in the ninth minute. He hit a low-hard shot from outside the penalty box that deflected into the corner past Davidson’s keeper Soren Johnson. Chris Wargin added to that lead just six minutes later, capitalizing on a counterattack that left Davidson’s defense outnumbered and out of position. Despite their best efforts to come back, Davidson found themselves trailing by two at the half.

“We were playing to play well and not to win,” recalled coach Slagle. “At half, I told the guys that they were going to have to play more aggressively in the back and that we were going to have to risk losing in order to win.”

Slagle’s team listened and came out with a new aggression in the second half. Junior forward Justin Saunders started the comeback in the 70th minute, heading home a Jon Teterick shot. “The ball bounced out to Teterick on the top of the box and I ran for the back post to cover a rebound. Teterick hit it right to my head and I just redirected it toward the goal,” Saunders recalled. “After that goal, our energy level shot up... we were ready to dig in and fight for the win. We knew that we were going to have to score again for [the goal] to mean anything.”

In the final minute, the ‘Cats got their last chance to fight for the win on a corner kick from the right side. “I saw 42 seconds on the clock so I sprinted over to take the kick. I looked over and Slagle called the play—an outswinger to Buehler,” said midfielder Eric Ozimeck. Ozimeck hit the corner to a streaking Buehler who had beaten his man. Buehler headed it toward the back post where senior defender Pat Miller was waiting. “I just wanted to frame the goal,” explained Miller. “I know Buehler can win 95% of the balls in the air, so I wanted to put myself in a position to finish. When I saw the ball in the air, I knew I was just going to have to change its direction and put it in.”

From this point on, it was only a matter of time. “Once we scored that goal, I knew we were going to win that game. We won every 50-50 ball in overtime. It was an awesome team effort,” said Ozimeck.

Norbet ensured the victory just three minutes into the first overtime period, when he headed home a goal that was assisted by freshman Justin Porter and Ozimeck. Norbet recalled, “Porter got it out left and sent a good ball into Oz. Oz volleyed it back across to me, behind the defense. I knew that if I beat the keeper to the ball, all I would have to do was get ahead on it. You see so many goals like that, if you can beat the keeper to the ball and keep it on frame it is going to go in.”

Davidson may be taking some increased confidence out of their comeback victory. Ozimeck commented, “I have played for several championship teams and I know that the teams that fight back are the teams that do well in the end.”

“The comeback means a lot. We learned, defensively, to be more aggressive and we are learning how to become more dangerous with our possession play,” coach Slagle explained.

The Wildcats square off against highly touted UNC Chapel Hill at 7:00 on Tuesday, September 12 before their home opener against Virginia Tech at 7:00 on Friday, September 15 at Richardson Stadium. Hopefully, Davidson will take their greater confidence into these games, finally believing that “where there’s a will, . . .”

Free Food and Free Music
RAIN OR SHINE

Saturday, September 16th at 6:00 p.m. behind Vail Commons

Dinner and the music of Gran Torino provided by the Union Board and Patterson Court Council

(Rain location: Dinner in Chambers Gallery and Gran Torino in Love Auditorium)

Have you thought of joining the Wildcat Pep Band?

Hmmmm...

(This guy is way too calm to be in the Pep Band)

I'll have good seats at the basketball games, I'll enjoy pizza and soda during breaks, I'll express my Davidson pride in close proximity to the visitor's bench, I'll plan on going to the SoCo Tourney...

For these and many other reasons, come out to our First Rehearsal, dinner included.

Please R.S.V.P.
Wednesday, Sept. 20th
Cunningham Band Room 6:00 P.M.

Contact Ken Davis, director, (704) 663-1538

Anyone with musical talent can be part of our team. Forgot your instrument? Play one of ours!