1. age” event in cooperation with the SGA and RLO. Students have the opportunity to sponsor beds. As with “Angel
Tree” service projects, sponsors receive some basic information about each bed’s recipient.

Davidson Professors’ Book Promotes ‘New Wave’ In Physics Instruction
The new book contains a selection of these problems as well as new problems written by the authors and their
collaborators. The purpose of the Physlets® book is to provide instructors with all they need to know to start writing
their own problems using Physlets®.

Run for Peace To Focus on Unity and Violence
On Monday, January 27, the Run for Peace, a 5K run/walk, will be held here at Davidson with the purpose
to unite people against family violence. This year’s theme is “Peace Brings a Home.” The Run is organized by the
Family Center of Charlotte, which raises funds for the Family Center, an umbrella organization which treats and prevents child abuse
and neglect, and the Shelter for Battered Women. The starting point for the run will be at 27. A spaghetti
dinner will be held for participants the night before at Queens College. Students are encouraged to participate in the run.
Information is available through Jennifer Madden, coordinator of helping someone else in need. Maggie McDougall ’04 said, “It’s an amazing
opportunity to participate in a good cause.”

This past Thursday, November 9, the brothers of Kappa Alpha went to jail for the KA Lock-In. With a little
help from their friends and cohorts to “bail” them out of jail, they were able to get $7500 in pledges
to go to the Muscular Dystrophy Association, or MDA. So far, they have received about $2000 from the pledges, but
they are still collecting money. KA is very happy about the overall event, says Matt Chapman ’03, service chair of
the fraternity. “We had a lot of students come out. We had a lot of support from the school.” KA
has been a big beneficiary to MDA. In the past, the biggest fundraiser has been the KA Karnival, held in
the spring. This year’s Karnival is set for April 21.

One student who knows about the benefits of MDA is Marie Sharp ’01. She has muscular dystrophy, or MD, and
currently gets around using a wheelchair. “The MDA is a great organization and what KA is doing is really great,”
said Sharp. Sharp spoke to the brothers of KA before the lock-in about her personal experience with MD and what
the MDA has provided for her over the years. Sharp pointed out that one of the most important services MDA
offers to children with MD is MDA camp. In this one-week experience, children with MD have the opportunity to participate
in activities such as swimming and horseback riding, that they normally would not have the chance to do. “It was
an amazing experience,” she said.

By MICHAEL CLIFTON
Special Contributor

Have you ever had a great idea, but no one with whom to share it? A new Internet startup in
Charlotte, largely staffed by Davidson graduates, has found a way to help. ShyGenius.com is an online community that connects marketers
with their consumers to tap the consumers’ creativity. It began as the brainchild of Steve Halloran, a former producer for
ABC Television and director of off-Broadway productions. His two main interests are theatre and business, and in ShyGenius, he found
a way to combine the creativity of theatre and opportunities of an e-business. Companies come to ShyGenius with their marketing
needs, and their needs are turned into contests on the ShyG web site. Members of the online community submit their
ideas. The best idea is selected and sent on to the company, and the contributor is rewarded with a prize.
For example, there is a contest now for ShyG users to create the tag line for Charlotte magazine. The company
is founded on a belief that all people possess native creativity, whether their occupations allow them to express it or
not. Companies rely on creative innovation to grow and survive. ShyG is the medium through which consumers areEmpowered to present
marketing ideas to marketers, and marketers in turn reward those consumers for their contributions. The promise of the Internet is
that it will allow all people to access vast amounts of information, and so it is proving to be a
great equalizer. However, the Internet is still very young, and so this dream has yet to come to full fruition
— but companies like ShyG are taking big steps in that direction. It is empowering consumers to make marketing decisions
about the very products they consume. Davidson has strong connections in the ShyG management team. In fact, 4 out of
5 ShyGenius employees are Davidson graduates. Bill Gullan, Davidson class of 1996, came on as the Chief Marketing Officer. Next
came Ryan Northington, '96, Meagan Gleason, '00, and Elizabeth House, '97. According to Gullan, a liberal arts education best prepares
people for the nature of their work because it develops strong communication skills, problem-solving ability, creativity, and cultural awareness. Halloran
is a graduate of Middlebury, so the whole company is steeped in the liberal arts tradition. ShyGenius is a unique
community and requires unique advertising. It has begun an “evangelist” program in which students at various colleges and universities are
responsible for developing marketing tailored to their school’s population. These evangelists are employees of the company and have great freedom
in the avenues they pursue. Because the ideal ShyG member is someone creatively, culturally, and academically inclined, college students are
targeted. Davidson has two ShyG evangelists, Brandt McMillan and Meghan Martiniere. According to McMillan, “Being an evangelist is a good
opportunity to get involved in the grassroots of Internet business. It’s granted me an understanding of e-business mechanics and provided
several chances to have a good time while working.” ShyGenius has been heavily trafficked in the few months it has
been open. According to Gullan, it is difficult to predict how much traffic a new site should get, but he
believes the company is right on track. Membership in the ShyG community is free, so next time you find yourself
annoyed by terrible advertising, stop by ShyGenius.com and make a difference.

New library procedures under consideration
By Jessica Mering
Staff Writer

The SGA recently approved a resolution calling on the Library to relax restrictions on student use of videos. Little Library
has hundreds of videos available for student use, but under the Honor Code, none can be removed from the library.
The proposal aims to change that policy. The resolution, proposed by Kevin Epps '03 and Gray Patterson '03, points out
that students can only check reserve and non-reserve videos out for three hours at a time. During this time, they
must watch them using the library’s limited number of VCRs. Not only is the three-hour limit constrictive, but the opportunity
to watch videos ends at 1:00 a.m., when the library closes. This can be especially difficult when an entire class
needs to watch a video over a small period of time. If the video is already checked out, students are
unable to find out who is watching it. Once they have checked it out, they may discover that all of
the library’s VCRs are in use. The proposal seeks to alleviate the number of students vying for a limited number
of machines as well as to make it more convenient to watch videos when the library is closed. It suggests
“that the Library administration consider allowing videos, which are checked out by students, to be taken from the building so
that they can be played in their rooms or elsewhere.” Most likely, this would apply only to non-reserve videos. Epps
and Patterson defend the logic of the resolution by pointing out that all Davidson students live under the Honor Code.
Hence, students that removed videos from the library would be honor-bound to return them there. Also, since many of the
library’s VCRs require headphones, they allow only one viewer at a time. “This would allow several students to check out
a video and watch it somewhere else, all at one time,” explained Epps. By making it easier for students to
view the movies in groups, the videos would not be unavailable for as long as it takes students to watch
them individually. The SGA approved exploration of this idea, and the proposal now moves into the hands of the administration.
Dr. Leland Park, Director of the Library, will head up this discussion. He expects that it will be sometime late
next semester before the administration implements any changes. “I will be discussing the proposal with the Faculty Library Committee, the
Library Staff, the Instructional Support Center staff, and the faculty. This will take some time,” he noted.

Police blotter will return next semester.
