Davidson COLLEGE

SGA debates representation changes

BY Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Last Tuesday night, the structure and efficiency of the Student Government Association became the center of debate among the senators. Christopher Brantley, Class of 2001 President, submitted a resolution to the Senate that proposed the restructuring of the SGA on the grounds of its inefficiency to deal with student matters. The resolution states that “the SGA Senate of Davidson College would more equitably represent the [student body] of Davidson College.”

According to the bylaws, the Senate has forty members: four non-voting officers, three senators elected from each of the upper classes, six freshmen senators, five independent senators, and one senator from each of the Patterson Court houses. Brantley contends that this relatively large governing body is a hindrance to efficient governance. Brantley proposed removing positions that exclusively represent social organizations, including all fraternities and eating houses, the Black Student Coalition, Davidson International Association, and the independent senators. These positions would be replaced with an increased number of class-elected senators, reducing the number of voting members by twelve.

Kevin Epps, ‘03, Chairman of the SGA Bylaws and Charter Committee, agreed that this was a necessary action: “The infrastructure of SGA has got to change... we’re getting things done but that’s not getting out [to the students] through the representation.”

Contributing to the inefficiency in representation is a lack of enforcement of the bylaws. Senators are allowed only three absences. After that, they can lose their seat. This attendance policy has not been rigorously enforced. Two-thirds of the elected senators must be present for a meeting to occur; at last week’s meeting, the number in attendance just barely met this standard. Patterson Court senators are absent more than others, which leads some to believe that representing the Court differently may raise efficiency within the Senate. “There have been some complaints that [fraternity and eating house] representation hasn’t been that great and we’re letting them know that something could change,” noted SGA Vice-President Joey Harris, ‘02.

While the method for improvement is up for debate, some senators argue that restructuring is not the issue. “If it’s structuring, it’s structuring. Whether we need to restructure or not, we need to have better communication between the SGA and the student body,” commented Bobby Pittenger, President, Class of 2002.

The end result - President Dane Erickson created the Restructuring Committee to assess the current system of representation. The Committee, chaired by Brantley, met multiple times during the past week and spent hours debating the best way for Senate to better achieve its goals.

See SGA, page 6

Davidson police search local woman’s car
Incident raises issue of probable cause

BY LINDY BALDWIN
Staff Writer

“The right of the people to be secure... against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause...”

Anyone who’s studied the US legal system—or watched an episode of Law and Order—knows this Fourth Amendment clause can be difficult to interpret. In particular, the term “probable cause” is open to interpretation and often invoked by lawyers when the legitimacy of a search or seizure is questioned in court. The Davidson police department recently found themselves before the court of public opinion on just this sort of question.

On August 17, Susan Martin, a twenty-two-year-old Davidson waitress, stopped at a license checkpoint. She was cleared to leave, but a few miles later she was pulled...Over by Davidson Police Officer Scott Searcy. He told her the officers at the license checkpoint had seen something in her backseat, and he had probable cause to search the vehicle. The suspicious item was an issue of the newspaper Creative Loafing; on its cover was a photograph of a marijuana plant. According to an article in the August 19 issue of Creative Loafing, Martin felt the officer did not have probable cause to search her car, but consented to the search so she wouldn’t be stuck on the roadside for hours. Officer Searcy’s search yielded nothing, and Martin was allowed to leave.

A letter from Martin to Creative Loafing prompted Sam Boykin to write the article about her experience. Boykin wrote that the officers apparently thought it was a copy of High Times (a publication about marijuana). However, Boykin interviewed several attorneys, and according to criminal lawyer James Watt, “You could have 100 books in your car about marijuana, and that’s still not probable cause.”

By August 25, local newspapers and TV stations had picked up the story as well. Despite the notoriety her case has gained, Boykin said Martin has no plans to press charges. Inquiries at the ACLU have been met with red tape, and Martin is reluctant to paint “a bull’s-eye on her back.” When asked about the story, Boykin was annoyed by “the fact that the [assistant] police chief [Butch Parker] stuck to his guns and said it might have been an issue of High Times, like that would make it o.k,” implying he believes there was no probable cause to search Martin’s car. Dr. Mary Thornberry of Davidson’s political science department agrees with this assessment. “Having a magazine of general circulation, such as Creative Loafing, is not probable cause.”

See Police Search, page 6

Rankings keep Davidson among nation’s elite

BY SUSAN ROBISON
Staff Writer

College administrators across America eagerly awaited last week’s issue of U.S. News and World Report. The magazine released its annual ranking of the top colleges in America, including the fifty best liberal arts schools, and every year “the competition is fierce,” said Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable. Davidson found itself in the 11th spot for the second year in a row, improving or retaining its scores in six of the seven evaluation criteria over last year, which, to college president Bobby Vagt, “is the preferred result.”

The data is amassed by standardized surveys sent to every college. The rank is based on seven parts: academic reputation, retention, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources, graduation rate performance, and alumni giving rate. The highly subjective “academic reputation” category is based on a survey given to the president, the chief admissions officer, and the chief academic officer of each school. Director of Planning and Institutional Research Linda LeFauve was happy about the college’s overall consistency in the rankings. “We continue to be ranked among the best in terms of selectivity, retention of students, graduation rates and alumni giving,” she said.

Although 11th isn’t the highest that Davidson has been—it was eighth in 1997—students seemed to be extremely satisfied with the outcome. “The high ranking made me feel even more proud and honored to be a part of such a great institution,” said freshman Jason Scott. Students and faculty members alike are especially pleased with the report’s impact on Davidson’s perceived reputation. “I was definitely excited to see us ahead of other schools with really great reputations,”

See Rankings, page 6

INSIDE

Viewpoint
SGA Commentary
Response to Chaplain Spach
Hate Crimes Laws Under Scrutiny

Sports
Possible Conference Changes?
Big Week For Volleyball
Football Preview