THE DAVIDSONIAN VIEWPOINT

The Davidsonian EDITORIAL

Consider that:

- The college has disallowed cable television viewing in the dorm rooms, citing the general welfare of the students and
the community.
- The school prohibits pets in the residence halls, citing others’ rights to a clean (and non-allergenic) environment.
- And college officials have banned such ordinary appliances as toasters, candles, and halogen bulbs, citing them as fire hazards.

The issue of smoking in the residence halls has been debated. The issue is admittedly a sticky one, with viable
claims to be made on all sides of the debate. But one argument in particular caught our attention. Some SGA
senators decried any proposed action against smoking in residence halls, claiming that the school has no right to regulate personal
behavior behind closed doors. Professor Alan Michael Parker of the English department articulated this same argument at the recent CCRL
meeting, “My sense is that the residence halls constitute a domicile, and that what one does legally in one’s domicile—behind
a closed door, and of no danger to others—constitutes an idea of civil liberty.”

The defense of civil liberties is, of course, always a noble endeavor. If the college’s administration were to justify its
current smoking policy solely on the notion of “civil liberties,” then that contention would be glaringly hypocritical in light of
other campus policies.

If the school feels entitled to regulate such ordinary behavior as owning a pet, watching cable television, and toasting bread,
could it possibly renounce jurisdiction on the issue of smoking citing the principle of “civil liberties”? Does not tobacco affect
our general welfare? Does it not affect the cleanliness of our communal environment? And does smoking not constitute a certain
degree of fire hazard?

We do not necessarily disagree with a student’s right to smoke in their residence hall room. But if campus decision-makers
were to balk at the principle of regulating legal behavior behind closed doors, then those same students ought to be
able to smoke while watching CNN, toasting their breakfast, and petting their cat.

Fanfare for the Commons’ Man

Disclaimer: Andrew normally confines his article to social satires, little things that annoy him, and other menial issues. He has
decided this week to take an actual stance on an issue that has so disturbed and upset him that he
could no longer allow it to go on without some commentary.

I have a stomachache. It is not from the three gallons of whole milk that I drank today, nor the
attempted-dive-belly flop that I did in the pool today. No, the source of my discontent goes much deeper and, I
fear, has plagued many a man and woman at this school recently. What do I speak of? Don’t tell me
that you do not at least have an idea... We all know where this is going, just look at the
title, it does have a purpose... Yes, the cause of my extreme upset is the one, the only, Vail Commons.

Do not tell me that you have not noticed the disturbing trend at the Commons lately. The food has gone
from “decent” towards the beginning of the year, to “mediocre,” to “Pizza Day,” to “let’s just go to the Union,”
to the point where it is now so bad that just reading the menu makes me sick to my stomach.
I know that the food at the Commons has been a source of much griping, but I honestly believe that
it has gone from a “gripe-worthy” cause to a “call-a-mortician” cause. Thus, I write to warn you and to take
my mind off of the incredible “yuckiness” I feel when thoughts of the Commons arise.

Do they think that we are totally devoid of taste buds? Do they really believe that they can serve meatloaf
for lunch and Sloppy Joes for dinner and not have us notice the glaring fact that it is the same
meat? Are they under the impression that they can stop using their normal grade “C” meat and switch to retired
circus animals without anyone noticing? The answer, my friends, is they have and they do. Well, I’m angry, and I’m
not going to take it anymore! And that is exactly what they want. They want me to avoid the daily
ritual of gagging, gas, and intestinal bleeding. Why? Because the fewer people that eat at Commons, the more money they
make. Think about it. We have no choice in the matter now; we are stuck in our meal plans. Thus,
they can slowly phase in worse and worse and cheaper and cheaper food. Soon, fewer and fewer people will be
eating there and they will make more and more money all at my and your expense! It is ingenious; I
wish that I had thought of it myself—a scheme the likes of which haven’t been seen since the pyramid scheme
that collapsed the government of Albania or the Teapot Dome scandal. They are milking us for all that we are
worth and there isn’t a thing that we can do about it! We have been had, my friends. They have
read our music and played it.I’m sick, I’m mad as us like Stradivarius violins. All that there is left to
do is wait until they are serving us the new and improved “Solvent Green.” Now, if you'll excuse me, I
am going to vomit. Note: Andrew did not, in fact, vomit. Instead, he went to sleep and dreamt that a
giant Sloppy Joe was trying to eat him. If this article offends you in many ways, shapes, and forms, please
write a letter in response. While Andrew most likely considers anyone who eats Commons food on a regular basis, let
alone enjoys it, to be clinically insane, he no longer has power of attorney and will not have you committed.
Hate mail is also appreciated.

P.S. Did you ever wonder why there are no horses around Davidson despite open land? Where did they all go?
There used to be horses...

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

There has been much talk recently about the issue of smoking in dormitories on campus. This topic extracts a multitude
of opinions from varied students and administrators alike, and the discussion of this topic has the potential for becoming very
heated. But before the ACLU raids Davidson College in defense of smokers’ rights, let me share a little about why
all smoking should be banned from dormitories on campus.

First, I will make it clear that I am from New York, so please forgive me if it seems that
I cannot understand the sacredness in which some in this region hold the tobacco leaf. I will admit that I
do fail to see the attractiveness of a product which has been proven to cause lung cancer, birth defects, accelerated
aging, and emphysema, among other afflictions. If you are a smoker and you do find an attraction in such things,
please enlighten me with your knowledge. Now I will put all the jokes aside with a reminder that even facetiousness
contains its truth.

A side of this issue, which is often forgotten, is that of non-smokers’ rights. Smokers have rights, yes, but their
right to smoke infringes upon non-smokers’ rights not to inhale second-hand smoke. Therefore, the rights of a smoker to his
cigarette need to be curtailed where the rights of the non-smoker are violated. Remember that smokers make the choice to
smoke, while non-smokers must passively endure that choice in the form of second-hand smoke, which is more dangerous than that
inhaled by a smoker: at least the smoker has the benefit of a filter.

Contrary to an opinion published in the March 23 issue of The Davidsonian, smoking, though often done behind a closed
door, is indeed a danger to others. If it were not a danger, there would be no issue. Smoke does
not respect the boundary of a closed door. It seeps through cracks, windows, and vents. Many are allergic to smoke;
such symptoms include nausea, burning eyes, stuffy nose, and cough. For others, it is simply a plain nuisance. Must non-smokers
endure this because someone else made a choice to smoke? Must we non-smokers resort to Kleenex, eye drops, and coughing
in the name of supporting someone’s supposed civil liberty? I should hope not.

Smoking not only raises health concerns but also safety concerns. In the wake of the recent string of dormitory fires
in colleges across the country, I would hope that Davidson College would be especially sensitive to this issue. Simply stated,
smoking is a safety hazard. This proves yet again that smoking, in whatever location, is a direct danger to others.
The College currently bans candles, toasters, and halogen lamps from dormitory rooms because of their fire hazard. Have we forgotten
that a lit cigarette can do the same thing as any one of these contraband items, or is this fact
intentionally ignored in order to preserve some [supposed] civil liberty?

Smokers, you are the ones who make the choice to smoke. You need to respect the rights of non-smokers as
well. You should have the right to smoke, but only outside and preferably away from doorways so as to minimize
the impact on the health of non-smokers. For those of you who insist on blindly poisoning the air of everyone,
you must remember that since your activity creates a negative externality (alas! economics), you must make the effort to be
considerate of others.

I call on the administration of Davidson College to implement a ban on smoking in all dormitories on campus for
the health and safety of all persons. This action would take courage, especially here in tobacco country, but the end
result is the most desirable for all parties involved. And fear not, for our precious civil liberties would still be
preserved.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Features Editor
CARRIE RYAN

Advertising
PETER CLEAR

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON

News Editors
SETH DAVIS
BURGIN HARDIN

Sports Editor
ANN GREGORY

Executive Layout Editor
BEN COVINGTON

ERYCA SCHWARTZ

CLARK GIBSON

Managing Editor
GABRIEL SPECHAR

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
