Bill Giduz

The Class of 2004 gathers for a group picture August 18 during the orientation program. The class, made up of 237 men and 233 women, began moving in Wednesday. It participated in several activities throughout the weekend designed to help get them acquainted with college life. The freshmen heard from campus police, ministers, academic advisers, and other college leaders. On Saturday, they ventured out into the community to participate in an array of service activities. The class learned about the Honor Code from current members of the Honor Council Sunday night.

Parking causes headaches
By AMBER PARKE AND MATT WHITED
Staff Writers

Returning students and campus security collided last week over a recurring issue - parking. In a single week, officers issued over 120 tickets and had twelve of these vehicles towed. Many students, dismayed by the apparent lack of spaces, parked outside designated areas. Those who did were unpleasantly surprised.

“There are more than enough parking spaces throughout the campus,” asserted Sam McKelvey, Director of Public Safety and Police. “The problem is not the number of spaces, it is the students’ willingness to comply with general parking laws.” Each of the 12 towed vehicles was parked illegally. Infractions included blocking fire lanes and parking outside of the designated white parking lines. Each of the students had also been given more than 24 hours notice that their vehicles were parked illegally and would be towed if they did not move, according to McKelvey.

Tracy Banghart ’02 tells a slightly different story: “The fire lanes are not clearly marked and I certainly did not receive a warning 24 hours before it was towed — I wasn’t even parked there for 24 hours!” Told her parking sticker and registration were not ready on Sunday when she went to pick them up, Banghart parked in the drop-off lane behind West Sunday night. The part of the fire lane that she parked in front of was not marked as a fire lane — “There was no paint, no signs, no warning, no phone call — nothing.” Because she had not received a parking guidelines manual, she was unaware that she was parking her car in a tow-away zone. “My biggest complaint is not that I got towed,” explained Banghart, “It’s the fact that I wasn’t informed about the fact that I was parked illegally!”

Sergeant Dickie Fleming suggested that at Davidson, unlike at many colleges, the problem does not result from a lack of parking spaces; rather, the difficulty stems from a lack of good spaces. Hopefully, the addition of 45 spots in the new lot north of West will simplify things. Meanwhile, McKelvey would like to remind students that, although it is a slight trek, the Baker lot has 600 available spaces. Other parking alternatives include the satellite lot (with 60 spaces) as well as the new expansion of the Greenhouse lot off Ridge Road (another 30 spaces).

West, from page 7

Most, like John Kenyon ’01, are “very happy with [their] choice to live in West.” However, a few problems are putting a damper on the new dorm’s first term. Some are temporary problems, such as the lack of shower curtains and low water pressure. Williams said RLO is working to correct the water pressure, which Smatlak described as “pretty lousy.” Shower curtains were absent at first to give students a chance to buy more personalized ones, according to Williams. A curtain was provided for all students who did not wish to purchase one; however, they are too short (new ones have been ordered) and require a separate spring-loaded bar. Michael Newnam ’01 complained that...The rod has already broken, causing water to spill out when someone takes a shower. Some of the complaints address more permanent aspects of the new dorm, such as the size of the rooms. Newnam feels the rooms are “extremely small and claustrophobic.” Williams contends that, when common area space is considered, West residents have more room than residents of other dorms, but Newnam wishes “a lot of the common space [was] incorporated into larger single rooms.” Smatlak agreed that the common space is “kind of a waste,” but like most West residents, she believes the rooms are “decent-sized.”

A few of West’s inhabitants are irritated by the requirement that they clean their own bathrooms—one accused Davidson of being “miserly.” Most students were not aware of this requirement during last spring’s housing lottery. However, Williams pointed out, the policy (similar to the one on Martin Court) was recommended by students who did not want Housekeeping in their private space. Furthermore, the students have been provided with bathroom cleaning supplies. Smatlak added that the bathrooms are small, shared by few people, and easy to clean. Newnam, however, feels that “there’s no reason to pay $30,000 for the privilege of scrubbing a common toilet.”

For students who have cars on campus, the recent loss of parking is a cause for concern. But Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes maintained that parking will be better than it was last fall. Perhaps one of the biggest controversies surrounding West was the accusation that the new dorm would deprive students of the chance to live off-campus. During the spring housing lottery, only 60 students received permission to live off-campus, leaving a waiting list of 20. However, due to the replacement of Pax Lodge by the new co-ed eating house and the addition of lounges in Richardson, Little, Sentelle, Watts, and Cannon, 42 beds were given up and all students on the waiting list were allowed to move off-campus. Holmes said RLO ended up providing a perimeter house to four upperclassmen to make room for four freshmen. Despite these developments, the total number of students living off-campus is still far lower than pre-West numbers, which averaged around 120.

As for the rumor the building was condemned? Just a rumor. The real story, according to Holmes: students were moved to a hotel because there was too much heavy machinery around West. The inspector was concerned for the safety of students coming to and from the building, so 4 RAs and a handful of students spent five nights in a hotel (paid for by the contractor) while the machinery was cleared away. When the inspector returned, the building passed. “[West] was never condemned; there was never really a problem with the building itself, just with the surrounding area,” Holmes explained. A college-wide event to celebrate West’s grand opening is scheduled for early September.

We throw all kinds of obstacles in. Tuition isn't one of them. Sure, we’ll have you climbing walls. But if you qualify for a 2- or 3-year scholarship, tuition’s one obstacle you won't have to worry about. Talk to an Army ROTC rep. And get a leg up on your future.

Steve Aldrich ’02, whose car was also towed, offered his opinion. “I understand where they’re coming from. Rules are rules, but I think they jumped the gun a little bit. They could have been more understanding considering how inconvenient the situation was.”

ARMY ROTC
Unlike any other college course you can take.
For Additional Information visit our office at Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165.