By Matt GARFIELD, News Editor

It began under the sweltering August sun three months ago, the first official day of practice on Aug. 12. And
now, sixty minutes separate Davidson’s football team from the goal to which they have devoted their lives since that day:
Perfection.

The team has won 16 consecutive games dating back to last season—including nine this year—tying Robert Morris for the longest
current win streak in I-AA. A win in Saturday’s 1:30 p.m. game against Georgetown at Richardson Stadium would finalize the
first undefeated season for a varsity athletic team in Davidson history.

But there will be no bowl games or playoff berths to look forward to for the Wildcats’ 65 players and
ten coaches. Twenty-two seniors will almost surely be playing their last game of competitive football. Next season, Davidson will join
nine schools in the football-only Pioneer League. So while Saturday’s game will bring an end to this season, it will
mark the beginning of a new era for Davidson football. A win would provide valuable momentum as the program makes
the transition to conference play.

For a team that hasn’t lost in 14 months, is there a reason to expect anything other than a victory?
“The way we’ve approached it is to focus on one game at a time,” said head coach Joe Susan. “Right
now, it’s a one-game season.”

“We realize what is riding on this,” said sophomore wide receiver Mike Chase. “There is added pressure, but I don’t
think it will affect us. Everyone is ready to play.”

Susan, off to the best start of any coach in Davidson football history, says the team’s success isn’t due to
lucky breaks or weak opponents, but to solid leadership and commitment from every player. “What’s unique about this team is
we bring 65 people together into one personality. These kids don’t care about statistics. They just care about knowing who
you are as an opponent and finding a way to beat you.”

“It’s a lesson in how selfless you have to be. If you’re able to set your ego aside and focus
your energies on being a part of the whole, it can become a lot stronger. It becomes a very powerful
concept. That’s what we have going for us right now.”

Examples of that selflessness aren’t hard to find. It is senior linebacker Bo Henderson asking a reporter during a recent
interview to do a story not on him, but instead on close friend and defensive end Andre Carelock. It is
Carelock, who upon being awarded the game ball after a recent win promptly handed it to senior running back Bryan
Fish, because in Carelock’s opinion, Fish deserved it more. It is Susan insisting that supporters from the school and community
be thanked for their support.

Asked whether luck has played a role in the win streak—two of Davidson’s victories have come by three points and
one game went to double-overtime—Susan was quick to suppress the notion. “Luck is when preparation meets opportunity, except when you’re
gambling,” he said. “And these kids don’t gamble.”

Mike Anderson

Coach Joe Susan, off to the best start of any coach in Davidson football history, hopes to lead the Wildcats
to their 16th straight victory in the final game of the 2000 season.

Davidson (9-0) vs. Georgetown (5-5)
Saturday, Nov. 18, 1:30 p.m., Richardson Stadium

The Coach: Bob Benson (seventh year at...Georgetown, 48-22 lifetime). ENSIOE.... Football continues undefeated season

The History: Last year, the Wildcats made a dramatic comeback, scoring 21 points in the final seven minutes to knock
off the Hoyas, 28-27 in Washington, DC. Quarterback Paul Nichols entered the game in relief and ran for two touchdowns
in the game’s final minutes to lead the attack.

Volleyball captures SoCon title

The Team: After finishing last season with a strong 9-2 record, the Hoyas have been somewhat inconsistent during the 2000
campaign. However, the team has won three of its past four games, including wins over Marist, Iona, and St. Peter’s.
Its prolific offense, which finished second in the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference a year ago with more than 380 yards
per game, is led by All-America candidate Gharun Hester. Hester, last season’s Football Gazette’s NCAA 1-AA Non-Scholarship Wide Receiver of
the Year, was 13th in the nation with 97.6 yards per game in receptions. Earlier this season, he broke the
school record for receiving yards with 2,817, and touchdowns (14). Last week, Hester scored on a 44-yard pass play with
2:25 to play as the Hoyas rallied to defeat St. Peter’s College 20-16. After catching a short pass from quarterback
Dave Paulus, Hester raced down the sideline for his second touchdown of the day to give the Hoyas the victory.
It was Paulus’ third touchdown pass of the game.

The Hoyas return seven starters on a defensive unit that finished fourth in the country, allowing only 15.1 points per
game. Last season the Hoyas tied for fourth place in all of Division I-AA with 23 interceptions. Despite giving up
343 yards, the Hoyas’ defense made some key plays to contribute to last week’s win over St. Peter’s. With the
game tied at 7-7, St. Peter’s running back Daniel Spain took a handoff at the GU 30 and raced toward
an apparent touchdown. However, senior Mike Turamian caught him from behind and knocked the ball free and out of the
end zone, giving the Hoyas possession. Matt Korcinsky added a fumble recovery, while Brett Crowder and Ryan Merse each had
interceptions. Junior Matthew Craffey led the team with 11 tackles.

Winter Sports Schedule

Men's basketball tournament bracket

Mike Anderson

Women's basketball falls in 2nd exhibition | Wrestling season begins

What to Expect: Both teams should be very emotional, as Davidson goes for an undefeated season and Georgetown tries to
play the role of spoiler. Both teams feature high-octane, pass-happy offenses, so there should be some fireworks. Davidson All-America cornerback
Ryan Crawford, who closes out one of the best careers in school history, should be matched up on Hoyas’ star
wideout Gharun Hester most of the day. The winner of that battle will play a huge factor in who goes
on to win the game. If it’s Davidson, expect a huge celebration. The stadium will likely be packed, as the
possibility of going undefeated has caught the attention of many Davidson students.

Davidsonian Player of the Week

THE WEEK AHEAD

VOLLEYBALL
Nov. 17-19 SoCon Tournament

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Nov. 18 @ Jacksonville 5:00
Nov. 20 @ Stetson 7:00

WRESTLING
Nov. 19 @ ODU Tournament 10:00

MEN’S BASKETBALL
Nov. 17 # South Florida 11:00
Nov. 18 # Santa Clara/Utah St. TBA
Nov. 19 # TBA TBA

SWIMMING
Nov. 16-18 * Nike Cup East TBA
in Chapel Hill, NC

# in Fairbanks, AK
