THE DAVIDSONIAN

By CHRISTINA COOKE
Staff Writer

Diana Pendergrast ’02 climbed on her bike this summer in New Haven, CT, and began to ride. Sixty-three days and 4,200 miles later, after crossing the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, CA, she dismounted with her mission accomplished. Diana cycled across the country with 28 other students as part of a Yale University program to raise money and awareness for Habitat for Humanity, a charitable organization that builds homes for underprivileged families. The money they earned through fundraising, including Diana’s $4,500, amounted to enough for the construction of two houses in New Haven. The riders also spread word of Habitat to those they met along the way.

“I thought it would be a good experience. It would be something I’d be proud of, it was for a good cause, and I’d get to see the entire country,” said Pendergrast.

Each morning, the group rose around 5:30 a.m. to begin riding before the heat became too intense. Halfway through the day’s ride, when they came upon the van that carried their supplies, they would stop to eat lunch. By mid-afternoon of most days, they reached the church in which they would spend the night. The group cycled an average of 75 miles each day.

“For the first two weeks, you were exhausted by the end of the day,” recalled Pendergrast.

Grant supports future religious leaders

By JOHANNES NORRLING
Staff Writer

A drug company has made a multi-million dollar grant to Davidson designed to promote religious activities on campus. In May of last year, the Lilly Drug Company invited more than 60 colleges, including Davidson, to write proposals for a new grant. The company runs a foundation interested in offering money to schools to promote religion on their campuses. After nearly a year of planning by college officials, Davidson’s proposal was accepted, and the school will receive nearly $2 million beginning next year.

The foundation has historically focused on offering grants to small, theological seminaries both in Indiana and throughout the United States. However, in response to what they see as a growing lack of ministers, the foundation has now decided to also focus on undergraduate institutions. Kevin McCarthy said Davidson’s “long tradition” of students entering the ministry makes the school a perfect candidate for the grant. However, he said the grant is also designed to prepare students to take “leadership roles in their congregation” even if they don’t become ministers.

Davidson will receive roughly $500,000 each year over the next four years. However, the foundation has not yet made it clear whether the grant will be renewable again in 2004. The grant comes with very few strings attached. Lilly’s only guidelines are for using the money “to identify and nurture a new generation of talented and committed religious leaders.”

Davidson officials say they will utilize some of the money to promote student service opportunities. Starting next year, the school will develop many new community projects. Students will also be able to request funding for extended service trips over breaks, and can receive resources even if they belong to another church. McCarthy sees “support for students in other congregations” just as important as aid for the college’s affiliated church, Davidson Presbyterian.

A lecture series, featuring Davidson alumni, will also begin next year. Designed to inform students on “ways that they can relate theology, reflection, and faith on their careers,” the series will include speakers from many professions, both religious and secular. However, the grant will be used primarily for extracurricular activities. There will be very few restrictions on how the money can be used.Few changes to the existing curriculum in the religion department, except that a new theologian-in-residence will teach a course for two semesters. The grant is not entirely allocated yet. The oversight committee, chaired by Dr. John Kuykendall, is still planning many programs over the next four years. Students with ideas about the grant should contact the Rev. Rob Spach in the Chaplain’s Office.

Celebrations, study breaks, exam time, or just for fun! BEN & JERRY'S VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT 202 Main St. Davidson 892-0604. Surprise your college kids or campus chums with ice cream or frozen yogurt for birthday or graduation.

Pendergrast, students bike cross country to raise money. Pendergrast said she grew accustomed to spending eight hours at a time on the road and felt she could last for weeks without a day off. The riders faced sweltering heat, forceful winds, and steep mountains during many parts of the trip, but in Kentucky, they encountered a different obstacle. “This Tyson chicken truck had an equipment failure on the road,” Pendergrast remembers. “Eight thousand dead or half-alive chickens were scattered all over the road. Pick-up trucks kept carrying the dead chickens away from the site.” A bystander offered the riders a shortcut through his backyard as an alternative to the lengthy detour that the state trooper insisted they take. And so to avoid the pile of chickens, 26 of the cyclists rolled their bikes up his driveway and into his backyard, lifted them over the fence of a goat pen, and continued on their way.

Pendergrast said her favorite part of the trip was interacting with the residents she met along the way. “People all across the country were so nice,” she said. The members of the churches in which they stayed prepared huge dinners each night. Motorists offered directions, helped change flat tires, and drove injured riders to the hospital. As the cyclists struggled up hills, many drivers flashed thumbs-up out their windows as encouragement. Over the course of the summer, Diana pedaled through deserts, plains, hills, mountain ranges, and barking dogs of 12 states, all the way from one ocean to another. At the beginning of the trip, she dipped her back tires in the Atlantic Ocean, and at the end, she dipped her front tires in the Pacific.

Depression is a condition that can make you feel isolated, as if you are trapped in a tunnel without any hope of escape. No one can reach in to help you, and you can’t reach out to others. That light at the end of the tunnel has suddenly gone out, and there is no reason to go on existing through the horrible pain you face every day. Nothing can make you happy anymore, not even the family and friends you once held so dear. Everyone looks like a stranger, and everything you do feels unfamiliar and uncomfortable.

There were days when I was so tired I couldn’t bring myself to get out of bed. But strangely enough, I never seemed to sleep. I just drifted through endless gray moments between dreaming and reality, waiting for the next moment which would end. An estimated 19 million people in the United States have some form of a depressive disorder, affecting 12% of women and 7% of men each year. Depression is the leading cause of disability for people five and older. Symptoms of depression include a sad mood, loss of enjoyment in activities one once enjoyed, change in appetite or weight, sleeping too much or insomnia, feelings of worthlessness and guilt.