The

@ ALENDA LUX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Thursday, May 4, 2000

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

VOLUME 91, NUMBER 25

Spike in faculty departures raises questions

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Over recent months, some longtime faculty members at Davidson have noticed what they describe as a disturbing trend: it seems
that more and more highly-respected professors are trading their teaching posts for greener pastures in other academic institutions or the
private sector.

Five respected Davidson faculty members tendered their resignation over the course of the 1999-2000 school year.

Some alarmed faculty have dubbed the recent surge a “brain drain,” warning that these departures reflect systemic shortcomings in faculty
compensation at this small liberal arts college.

Nonetheless, the Vice President for Academic Affairs acknowledges that “We have to be vigilant with respect to the situation, we
have to look carefully at the causes of faculty departures, and we need to assess our policies when appropriate.”

Oh, the places they’ll go.

Those that are concerned point not only to the sheer number of professors departing, but to the high quality of
those taking flight.

“The people that have been leaving were all excellent teachers and professionals,” says Ross.

According to sources, Drs. Richard Kaye (English), Al Mele (Philosophy), Mark Csikszentmihalyi (Religion), Paul Marciano (Psychology), and Murray Simpson (Economics)
all announced their decision to leave Davidson this year. Those five departures, coupled with the high-profile losses of Drs. Tom
Kazee (Political Science Dept. Chair) and Rosemarie Tong (Pre-Med Advisor, Director of Medical Humanities) during the previous year, have raised
some eyebrows across the college community.

Dr. Kazee left to become Dean of the Faculty at Sewanee, while Dr. Mele departed for a tremendous research opportunity
at Florida State. Dr. Kaye will move on to the cosmopolitan environment of New York City, and Drs. Marciano and
Simpson have traded their professorships for endeavors in the private sector.

“I’ve grown to love Davidson more and more every year that I’ve been here,” says Mele, who has taught at
Davidson since 1979. “But it would have been just crazy to turn down this job offer.” Florida State University offered
Mele a prestigious endowed chair with “an enormous research budget and a very high salary.”

“It is with a lot of sadness that I am saying goodbye,” adds Dr. Kaye, who will assume a position
at Hunter College of the City University of New York beginning this fall. “Davidson has an amazing faculty and the
best college students in the country. At the same time, Hunter presented me with an extraordinary professional opportunity, along with
the chance to work and live in an urban environment.”

Dr. Shelley Rigger, a prominent expert on East Asian politics who was nearly plucked away by an offer from Georgia
State University this spring, echoed those sentiments. “Davidson is great, the idea of leaving was really painful,” she says. Rigger
had considered the move after her husband was offered an attractive position in the Atlanta area, but the tandem opted
to stay near Davidson when he found a comparable offer in Charlotte.

“The quality of faculty at Davidson remains absolutely excellent,” beams Ross. “And I personally feel that the faculty is very
supportive of the institution and very supportive of its students.”

Answering faculty concerns.
That does not mean that faculty members are universally content. Many feel that Davidson’s faculty compensation packages pale in comparison
to some other peer institutions.

As recently as 1998, Davidson’s faculty were the lowest paid among national liberal arts colleges ranked in the Top 25
by U.S. News & World Report, according to a report from the college’s Professional Affairs Committee.

The college’s leadership took this discrepancy to heart and embarked on an aggressive program of fortifying faculty compensation packages. The
Board offered healthy raises to all returning faculty in each of the past two years. For the upcoming school year,
full professors will earn an average of 6.0% more, while associates will bring in 8.3% more and assistants will garner
a 9.8% raise.

“The administration has made some very serious efforts,” says Dr. Ken Menkhaus, a political science professor serving on the Professional
Affairs Committee. “In the past few years, salary increases have been quite generous. We're starting to become more competitive.”

Dr. Ross explained that faculty pay raises are a high priority, but that salary alone has not been the deciding
factor in the loss of any recent faculty members. “To date, I have not seen any evidence that salary was
the primary reason for any of the recent departures,” he says.

See Departures, page 2.

INSIDE

Viewpoint
Students find bulletin board offensive

Sports
Wildcats welcome 24th football coach Joe Susan
