Through MP3 search engines and sharing programs, users can easily find rare live versions of songs by their favorite band, or they can download the most popular single. Listeners love the convenience of MP3s, and some bands have met with success due to exposure they gained on the Internet. However, for many groups, music is not a profitable enterprise. For a band struggling on the college circuit, landing a hit on mainstream radio requires a great deal of personal sacrifice on the part of the band members. They count on the radio play to generate interest in their music and to convince the audience to buy their music. But why would listeners drive to the CD store and pay $15 for one song when they can download the MP3 for free in the comfort of their own room? If economists have anything to tell us, it is that consumers will always take the most goods at the smallest cost. Simple market forces doom many bands to the same fate. Most groups will eventually fade into anonymity, only remembered on flashback radio programs and reruns of Saturday Night Live. Contrary to popular wisdom, this is an important issue. So important, in fact, that artists have decided to take it to the courts. Whether the courts will propose specific measures is debatable. Whether that will actually change the way people acquire recordings is doubtful.

While Davidson students are probably just as opportunistic as anyone else, we are, however, bound to a higher standard. If your conscience doesn’t stop you from exploiting artists, then the Honor Code should. In the final analysis, when we download MP3s of songs we do not own, we are helping ourselves to the property of others.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors-in-chief

Davidson prepares students for rich experiences

For anyone who read “Pittenger reports on a summer of excitement” from last week’s Davidsonian, I hope to clarify a few things with the article. Liz Neiheisel kindly asked to interview me earlier this semester for the weekly Career Services column, created to aid students in thinking about different and exciting things to do during the summer time. I reflected upon the article and asked myself, as I am sure you did, “why me? Why do I deserve a third of a page devoted to what I did this past summer?” I did nothing to merit such praise and did not deserve an entire article dedicated to my summer. There are too many other Davidson students who deserve this so much more than I ever would: those who aided in children’s lives at the Love of Learning Program, a sophomore who studied Greek in Ireland, a friend who cared for a mother diagnosed with breast cancer, and the list continues. My point is that no more than anyone else, do I deserve the kindness granted to me in last week’s Davidsonian.

Secondly, I do not have the strong writing skills the article may have conveyed. In truth, I am a mediocre writer. I strive to improve my writing skills, and because of Davidson I am four thousand times better than I was in high school from taking classes like Dr. Campbell’s freshman composition and Dr. Nelson’s Literary Analysis. If there is one thing I learned from my internship, it is that Davidson prepares us to do anything. My internship experience this summer is something any Davidson student could have done. So take a visit to the white house two doors down from the Admissions house on Main Street and figure out something to do this summer. Find out that you really have improved since Ms. Britt’s AP class in high school.

Bobby Pittenger ‘02

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VIEWPOINT

CIRCULATION MANAGER

Richard Vinson

Peter David

Jackie Davidson

Roberson Schwartz

Renee Miller

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

I was surprised the other day to receive a two-dollar credit check and memorandum explaining the new “Wildcat Credit” program. I was not surprised that the idea of service, emphasized by the last administration and much cherished on the campus, should find ever new forms. But I did not expect such an explicit expression of its cash value. Of course, there has always been a certain commercial aspect to Davidson’s service programs. The financial rewards of virtue under the Bonner Scholarships are well known, and the extracurricular service of students and faculty are paid in the coin of local fame, employment, and job security. Some years ago, when such commercial incentives for service were announced by the Kuykendall administration, a few complained—some fearful that their virtue could not weather competition, others concerned about the biblical preference for anonymity in well-doing. Such cavils, however, were swept away by the obvious practicalities of the program. Since virtue was clearly not its own reward, some rejected the law; he said he came to fulfill it. If we say that homosexuality is not a sin anymore, I feel that we are not loving our brother but accepting the sin. Another verse that clearly condemns homosexuality is found in Romans 1:25-26. Note that homosexuality is not the main issue here. Yet, Paul uses it as a sign of the level of wickedness. In Paul’s epistle, the problem is not homosexuality in itself, but rather he sees that as a result of falling away from God. For Paul, homosexuality is against the natural. To this argument, you could reply that nature is relative and that actually homosexuality can be one’s nature. That is where I also...disagree with you. Although I acknowledge that there are people with homosexual tendencies, that does not mean this is solely their nature. Science has not proven that homosexuality is a nature-only issue. It is probably a mixture of both nature and nurture. Thus, I would argue that even if somebody is born with homosexual tendencies, that does not define him or her as a homosexual. We may be born with tendencies to many things. Some are born with tendencies to be unfaithful, to be alcoholic, to be violent, etc. That does not mean we are helpless in giving in to these tendencies. Humans may have a fallen nature, yet that does not mean that God cannot redeem it. Thus, I firmly believe that if homosexuality is a sin, God has the power to change it. The teachings of Jesus compel us to love our neighbors as ourselves. It teaches us mercy and compassion. Believing that homosexuality is wrong does not contradict these teachings. Instead, it actually fulfills this teaching. A true friend will tell another friend whether he or she is in sin. It is my duty to love the homosexual and to bring him to the Biblical truth I believe in. By doing so, I am loving him instead of just ignoring something that I and the Bible think is wrong and thus harmful for him.

Elias Kruger ‘02

Save the Community Bike Program!

For almost a year now, Davidson College has had a Community Bike Program. You know, those hard-to-miss, obnoxiously red bikes that can be seen around campus. The premise of the program is wonderful — to offer bikes that can be borrowed any time, anywhere, to cruise around campus and to leave the bike wherever you happen to stop for the next person. Borrow freely and enjoy.

However, a stick has been thrown in the spokes of the program lately; the Davidson Outdoors staff can’t repair the bikes as fast as they are being broken. While a little damage is expected, the bikes have been thoroughly abused. Although the D.O. staff has been amused with the ever-new ways in which clever Davidson students can mangle bikes, the thrill is gone. As a result of such destruction, we currently have two bikes on campus, and six in the D.O. office being fixed. Not the best ratio. Two red bikes is a novelty, not a program.

So what can we do? Well, we can try to take care of the bikes. Seems simple, doesn’t it? It is. The only way to make the program work is if we all take a little responsibility for what we do. The freedom of the Community Bike Program comes from being able to ride around on a rather flamboyant bike whenever you want, not from the ability to ghost-ride the bike into a tree.

So, enjoy the bikes, ride them as much as you want, leave them wherever you want on campus, just please try to take care of them, and we’ll have a really cool Community Bike Program that will keep growing.

Robert McKeehan and the Davidson Outdoors Staff