__THE DAVIDSONIAN__

——— The case for cable

Editorials printed in The Davidsonian represent the preponderant opinion of the editorial board, and are not intended to reflect the
personal opinion of any particular staff member.

A little over three months ago, the Student Government Association issued a resolution calling on the administration to “explore the
option of providing cable television access to every dorm room.” Responding to the public clamoring for this popular amenity, the
SGA set the “exploration of cable” as one of their top goals for the 1999-2000 academic year.

In the weeks following the resolution, it became obvious that many in the administration met this proposal with obvious disfavor.
President Vagt told the SGA that cable TV would prompt students to spend more time behind closed doors in their
individual rooms, undermining the ongoing effort to build and sustain a sense of community on this campus.

We applaud President Vagt’s position in defense of the community at Davidson. Our sense of community is a defining commodity
that we should guard with all due zeal. And if cable television threatened to substantially diminish the community-mindedness of this
student body, we would oppose it. But we do not agree that such an amenity would gravely impair this student
body’s commitment to service and togetherness.

The supposition that community life at Davidson would evaporate in the face of SportsCenter and CNN gives Stuart Scott and
Wolf Blitzer way too much credit. And it gives Davidson students way too little credit. The young men and women
on this campus are renowned for their level of community involvement and service. But this tendency toward leadership and service
did not necessarily develop over their Wildcat careers. Most Davidson students have been overachievers from birth, investing their adolescent years
in academics, athletics, service, and various other community endeavors (a tendency acknowledged by the admissions office when they selected us
to attend this school). And during these high school years when they were making good grades, pursuing our interests, and
walking little old ladies across the street, most each and every one of them had access to cable television.

To suggest that students here would be unable to pry themselves from cable TV programming now that they are in
a college environment is not only unreasonable, it is insulting. There are students who are involved in campus life. And
there are those who are not. Cable TV is unlikely to seriously alter that. Those that want to be involved
will continue to be. And for those who do not, there are a multitude of other potential distractions on hand—Instant
Messenger, the Internet, video games, alcohol, movie-watching, sleeping, Union breaks, a trip to the 1st floor of the library...you get
the idea.

Judging by the manner with which students enjoy regular television programming, video games, and movies, students will almost inevitably congregate
in each other’s rooms to watch popular shows. Lounges are an attractive alternative—but they are often dominated by students studying
or one-track programming (how often have you walked into a lounge to find someone watching CNN?). And though it threatens
to distract from time spent studying, it also offers the potential to enhance the academic experience—with real-life programming including CNN,
MSNBC, & CNBC.

Those who oppose cable television offer well-intentioned objections. But the notion that cable television will seriously impact the level of
community involvement is at the least controvertible. Admittedly, access to cable TV is a luxury and by no means a
God-given right. But, for better or for worse, cable TV is quickly becoming a staple of American society. It would
be artificial and gratuitous to deprive the men and women that study here of this option—and we at The Davidsonian
find no compelling rationale to justify doing so.

A word on sportsmanship

It’s Wednesday, February 2, 2000, and I have just returned from watching Davidson beat Wake Forest, an ACC team, by
five points. Wow! I still haven’t recovered. A particular thrill was meeting my friend from WFU after the game and
watching him hang his head in shame. I have not experienced such excitement in a long time. I was so
proud of our team. My fellow fans were quite another story. I was embarrassed at times to be sitting in
the Davidson student section. At one point, a Wake Forest alum sitting nearby asked some zealous Wildcats near me to
watch their language. I felt ashamed of our behavior. I myself was using a few expletives at some of the
more exciting moments. However, I think there is a difference between using a few expletives in a “Man, I-wish-we-had-gotten-that!” sort
of way and calling the players and the refs names (no matter how much they may deserve it).

At the Appalachian State game, one of their players, Corey Cooper, was called “Fat Boy” repeatedly. It became the official
chant of the game. I agree that Cooper was a big boy, but he was also tall and very muscular.
I wouldn’t mess with him. That boy could take out just about everyone who wanted to call him “Fat Boy”.
I had the distinct pleasure of sitting behind the visitors’ rows. Directly in front of me sat Cooper’s father and
(I assume) his younger brother. Every time the “Fat Boy” chants began, I got to watch the little boy look
over to his right at all the Davidson students calling his brother names. I could not help but think that
this ten-year-old was acting more mature than most of our fans. I grant you that Cooper was a us He
had more fouls that went unnoticed by the refs than

See Sportsman, page 9.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000

Honor code violations cause system changes at Baker

As I am sure many of you have noticed there is a new ID card policy at Baker Sports Complex.
Most of you, I am sure, think this system of “confiscating your ID card while you work out” is ludicrous.
We were all able to simply swipe our card upon entering Baker, take the card with us, and then go
about our business. But no, now the head officials at Baker are making all students, faculty, and staff leave their
cards in little boxes at the front desk. Personally I found this new system a nuisance and I have talked
to many others who agree withme. The first day I worked out in Baker after this new policy had been
implemented, I left the complex without my card. Luckily, however, I realized my error before I had walked too far.
I thought to myself, “This new policy really stinks. The old ‘card-swiping’ system worked fine, so why did those power-loving
Baker executives have to change the policy?” I then decided to confront an employee in Baker to express my irritation
with the system and demand answers as to why there was a change. Basically, I wanted to know why Baker
officials no longer trusted “honor-bound” Davidson students (“honor-bound” is in quotation marks for a purpose that you will soon see).

After discussing the subject with a full-time employee at the front desk, I realized that the motives behind this new
system were reasonable and logical. This is where the “honor-bound” part comes into the story. Davidson College students themselves were
the reason that the new system was implemented. Evidently, there are members of our “honor-bound” student body who were using
the sports complex after operating hours (both during the week and on weekends). Yes, students felt that they were allowed
to hide in the building until the last employee or coach left and then proceed to work out, play basketball,
etc. Those same students also felt that it was their right to prop doors open in order to let their
friends in the building as well. Also, students who for some reason knew the codes to the doors thought that
they were allowed to use the code after Baker had closed in order to let others in the building to
work out with them. Basically, these “honor-bound” students have caused problems by creating their own hours for Baker to be
open. Why you guys cannot use the complex when the rest of the student body does is beyond my comprehension.

The Baker officials decided that there needed to be a better security system to truly know who was in the
building at all times. Otherwise, those morons (I mean “honor-bound” students) would continue using the building after hours. Now, since
your card is confiscated at the front desk, decoding the doors or hiding until everyone leaves will become obsolete acts.
If you think about it, the Baker guys are really looking out for your safety. Have you ever heard of
Hank Gathers? I mean, a freak accident, such as passing out and dying on the basketball court with no one
around, could happen while you morons (“honor-bound” Davidson students) are in the building alone. The Baker officials were also worried
that if you were irresponsible and dishonest enough to be in the building when you were not supposed to be
there, then you might even have the motivation to steal or vandalize things, too. Oh, so now I have said
it, you are irresponsible and dishonest. Yeah, I guess not all “honor-bound” Davidson students really are all that “honor-bound.” Obviously,
the idiots who caused trouble in Baker were not too keen on responsibility and honor. Please do not take this
the wrong way, I do believe that the overwhelming majority of this campus truly takes to heart the honor code
and code of responsibility. However, it only takes a few to mess the system up for the rest of us.

The Baker officials are still allowing those people who eat at the Wildcat Den and who want to go swimming
to carry their ID cards into the building. You can even keep your card if you are going to work
out and then eat or swim. Some trust has to be left in the system; the few dishonest students cannot
completely take the system away from the rest of the campus. Also, the new system is a lot more work
for the front desk workers, so this new security measure must be a necessity because who in their right mind
would try to make more work for themselves?

To step away from the Baker issue for a moment, the recent public abuses of the honor system were also
seen in the library. If you walked into the library last week, then you were kindly welcomed by a sign
that basically said a VCR was stolen and if such actions continued, then student privileges in the library would begin
to diminish. Personally, I am inclined to believe that someone other than a student committed this act; however, the thought
of that one dishonest student screwing up the system for the rest of us remains in the back of my
mind.

I am a tour guide for the Admissions office and one of the big aspects of Davidson life that tour
guides discuss is the honor code. Sure, most people on my tours do not at first believe the system works
because it is very “non-real world” like. However, since an overwhelming majority of the campus (aside from those Baker morons
and the few plagiarists, cheaters, and thieves who sometimes run around the campus) abides by the honor code, then the
honor system is the “real world” on the Davidson campus. It is hard to talk about the honor code on
tours, however, when there are signs in the library about stolen VCRs and when you have to hand over your
card in Baker because a few dishonest people screwed up the system for the rest of us.

So, what is the major issue here? The major issue is that these more recent abuses of the honor system
that have resulted in policy changes may only be the first in a chain of abuses that could lead to
an entire new system. Think about it, students will eventually have to lock their doors, dollar bills will no longer
be seen tacked on the wall, take-home tests will be memories of the distant past, and unproctored exams will surely
be history—that is, if there continues to be handfuls of students who do not follow the system. Handfuls lead to
small groups, and small groups to larger ones, etc. Don’t let the abuse of the honor system get out of
hand because, honestly, isn’t the honor system (the “real world” at Davidson) a great thing?

David Moncure ‘02
