The Davidson Wildcats’ men’s basketball squad played its only exhibition game of the preseason on Monday evening, showing off a
youthful roster that displayed a mix of perimeter and post scoring in a 91-77 triumph over the VASDA USA Silver
team. Sophomore Chris Pearson and junior Martin Ides led the Wildcats with 19 points apiece, while sophomore Wayne Bernard added
18 points with four three-pointers and seven assists. Pearson also grabbed a game-high 13 rebounds for a double-double. Without a
senior on the roster or the services of junior co-captains Emeka Erege and Michael Bree, Davidson found itself behind by
a point after five-and-a-half minutes. But fueled by a vicious dunk on a putback by Pearson and two three-pointers by
sophomore Peter Anderer, the Cats went on an 18-0 run over a 4:29 span. Davidson built the lead to as
much as 25 points before settling for a 56-37 lead at the half. After the intermission, the Wildcats scored the
first eight points, capped by another dunk by Pearson in Monday’s exhibition.

The Powerpuff Girls of Davidson Soccer
By JENN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

“When danger looms for the Davidson Women’s soccer team, the call goes out for Bubbles, Blossom, and Buttercup—The Powerpuff Girls.
Under the watchful eye of their captains Corrigan and Falconi, the girls fly into action against a colorful gallery of
nefarious villains throughout the Southern Conference—saving the day each Fall season.”

You might wonder who these soccer superheroes might be. Maybe it is too much to call them superheroes per se.
So I will just refer to them as the Powerpuff Girls. I'll give you a hint—they are each only in
their second year at Davidson. Each has their own power which allows them to force their opponents into submission. Each
has been acknowledged by the coaches of the Southern Conference to be of the best talent. Each claims their hideout
is located in Irwin Residence Hall or among the women of Connor. Each has scored at least one goal this
season. Each girl scored against Appalachian State in 1999. And although they don’t wear costumes or resemble actual cartoon characters,
these girls possess qualities that make them true soccer superheroes. At least here at Davidson.

Blossom: [power: aggressive] a feisty all-around naturally gifted soccer player who doesn’t back down despite a slight height disadvantage. But
note this is soccer, not basketball. Blossom is recognized to be the leader of the Powerpuff Girls, always receiving the
highest honors for her work. As a first-year superhero, Blossom was awarded All-Southern Conference recognition for her excellent performance. She
was named to the 2000 Preseason All-Conference team and was predicted by the Charlotte Observer as the player to “Keep
Your Eye On” in the Southern Conference. In 1999, Blossom was tied for first on the team in scoring with
six goals. One of these goals was the product of a play created by another Powerpuff Girl, Bubbles, during a
matchup versus No. 7 Duke. Bubbles bolted down the field at lightning speed to feed the ball to her sister,
Blossom, who pounded a shot past All-American Duke goalkeeper Isis Dallis. For the 2000 season, Blossom notched 30 shots and
assisted on six goals, both of which are third on the team. One of her two goals this season was
the game-winner against Vermont, which helped land her on the Harvard Invitational All-Tournament team. Blossom was also awarded second-team All-Conference
honors.

Buttercup: [power: uses her head] a tall powerful defender/midfielder who moves the ball up the field and frequently uses her
head in finding the back of the net. Buttercup, a former All-State basketball player and recruited by Davidson, has become
accustomed to using her head and long legs for good, not evil. She received second-team All-Conference honors in 1999, while
being ranked fifth on the team in scoring with five goals. Buttercup even took a hit for the team, like
any Powerpuff Girl would, during the ETSU game this season. After going up for a header and colliding with another
girl’s head, she suffered a serious nose injury that would require surgery, thus leaving the Powerpuff Girls one short for
the 2000 Tournament.

Bubbles: [power: unassuming threat] a forward, resembling Blossom in stature, who has dominated the record books and national rankings this
season as an unrelenting scorer. Bubbles, despite being second on the team in scoring in 1999, has proven this to
be her year on the charts. She has been nationally ranked in the top 20 among Division I leaders all
season in two categories: points per game and goals per game. Her powerful Powerpuff shots have made her fourth in
the country in points per game and ninth in goals per game. For individual statistics in the Southern Conference, Bubbles
ranks second in shots (68), shots per game, points (48), points per game, and assists (10). She is first in
goals per game (1.06) and in game-winning goals (6). Along with these rankings, Bubbles has set records in 2000 as
well. In the Southern Conference, she has set the season record for shots in one game (10 vs. Vermont) and
assists in one game (3 vs. UNCA). In the Davidson record books, Bubbles’ 19 goals and 10 assists equal-48 points
are single-season records. After two years at Davidson, Bubbles already has 66 points, fifth all-time in the Davidson record books.
She has been the only Wildcat recognized as a SoCon player of the week (10/16/2000) and to also receive first
team All-Conference honors this season. Do you think you know the Powerpuff girls? Be one of the first five people
to email me [jehiggins@davidson.edu] and win a free cookie and a yellow Starburst. Members of the Davidson Women’s Soccer team
and residents of Irwin are ineligible for the prize.

Davidson hit half of its three-point attempts (9-for-18) and outrebounded VASDA by a 56-41 margin. The Wildcat defense held VASDA
to just 33.3 percent shooting from the floor, and just 25.0 percent (5-for-20) from behind the arc. Eight players for
the Wildcats played at least 18 minutes, including Anderer and Pearson, both of whom averaged less than eight minutes per
game between them a year ago. Anderer was perfect from the field in four attempts, including all three breakaway. VASDA
pulled within 16 points for-13 shooting from the field. Seven of his 13 rebounds came on the offensive glass. “I
was very happy with the way we shot the ball from the perimeter, and how we got the ball into
our post players,” said Head Coach Bob McKillop after the game. “Chris Pearson and Martin Ides did a terrific job
down low, and Wayne Bernard did a great job leading the team on the floor.” For VASDA, Rob Pisanelli led
the team with 18 points in 21 minutes, while Gaines and Derrick Stroud each added 14. Like Pearson, Stroud had
a double-double, hauling in 10 boards. Chris Pearson had 19 points and 13 rebounds. Davidson will open its season in
Alaska next week in the Top of the World Classic, hosted by the University of Alaska-Fairbanks. The Wildcats will play
South Florida in the opening round on Friday, Nov. 17 at 11:00 p.m. (EST). On the following day, Davidson will
play either Santa Clara or Utah State, a 2000 NCAA Tournament participant. The first home game for the Cats will
be on Nov. 28 against Pennsylvania at 7:30 p.m.

Davidson SID

John Kilgo joins Davidson radio family

Press Release

The Davidson Radio Network moves into a new era with the hiring of John Kilgo as its play-by-play announcer for
the 2000-01 basketball season. Kilgo is known throughout the Carolinas for his past work as the executive producer and host
of North Carolina football and basketball television coaches’ shows, as well as radio call-in shows with Dean Smith and Bill
Guthridge. After graduating from UNC Chapel Hill in 1957 with a degree in Journalism, Kilgo was a columnist for The
Charlotte News for 10 years prior to becoming Davidson’s first full-time sports information director in 1966.

“I am thrilled to renew my association with Davidson College,” said Kilgo. “I admire and respect everything about Davidson and
always have. I’m delighted to be working with Coach Bob McKillop, whom I hold in the highest esteem. In this
era of billion-dollar television contracts for college sports, and huge stadiums and arenas that are steeply mortgaged, my faith in
the system is renewed when I study the way Davidson does it.”

Kilgo’s service in radio is well-documented. The news and sports director for WAYS Radio for 18 years, he did play-by-play
of UNC Charlotte games from 1976-82, including the 49ers’ NIT finals game in 1976 and their NCAA Tournament run to
the Final Four in 1977. Kilgo also did play-by-play for the professional football team in Charlotte for three years, as
well as Davidson’s football game in the Tangerine Bowl in 1969. For 17 years, Kilgo worked with Jefferson-Pilot Communications. It
was with J-P that he was the executive producer and host of UNC football and basketball television coaches’ shows for
13 years. Kilgo was also the host of radio call-in shows with former North Carolina basketball head coaches Dean Smith
and Bill Guthridge for 17 and three years, respectively.

Kilgo is also an accomplished writer, having co-authored the best-selling memoirs of Dean Smith, “A Coach’s Life.” He also wrote
“Season of Dreams,” the story of North Carolina’s 1993 national championship season in basketball.

“I am thrilled to have someone of Kilgo’s caliber on our team,” said McKillop. “His professionalism and commitment to excellence
is well documented and well respected throughout the country and the basketball community.”

Kilgo will be joined courtside by Brad Childress, a former Campbell basketball standout. Childress is in his fourth year as
the color commentator of Davidson basketball, and brings insightful and in-depth analysis about the team and games. All of Davidson’s
games can be heard on one of the following: WAGI, 105.3 FM out of Gaffney, S.C., WMIX, 106.1 FM out
of Waxhaw, N.C., or WHIP, 1350 AM out of Mooresville, N.C. In addition, the broadcasts can be heard live via
TEAMLINE at (800) 846-4700, ext. 1143, and live on the internet at either www.BroadcastAmerica.com or www.davidson.edu.
