THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Lauren Baird

In the week leading up to International Women’s Day on March 8, the air in Washington, DC resounded with more
than just a fanfare of celebrating voices. In addition to the many planned events and marches, Amnesty International and other
human rights organizations generated a different kind of noise. They inundated the nation’s legislators with phone calls and faxes —
a loud and insistent clamor directed towards ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against
Women.

Supporters call it CEDAW for short and claim that it’s a “dynamic, proactive approach to women’s advancement.” Its principal opponents
don’t say anything at all. By refusing to address the convention, adversaries of this international treaty hope it will languish
quietly as forgotten legislation.

Until very recently, the silent treatment method has succeeded. As chair of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Jesse Helms (R-NC)
refuses to rescue the convention from its inertia of neglect. The United Nations adopted CEDAW in 1979, and President Carter
sent the treaty to Congress for consent after eagerly signing it in early 1980. In the intervening twenty years, 162
other nations have ratified it but the United States has not. Secretary of State Madeline Albright recently quipped, “It’s not
(Helms’) favorite treaty, but I have made it clear it is an administrative priority.”

As a document, CEDAW defines discrimination against women and requires states to eliminate that discrimination in civil, political, social, economic,
and cultural arenas. As an international movement, CEDAW represents the stance that neutrality has no legitimacy in the worldwide realization
of women’s human rights. In the United States, ratifying CEDAW would signal both our international awareness of these goals and
our domestic commitment to secure them.

When Congress designated March as National Women’s History Month thirteen years ago, the resolution acknowledged that “American women of every
race, class, and ethnic background served as early leaders in the forefront of every major progressive social change movement.” Yet,
last year, when a delegation of women representatives (led by Lynn Woolsey, D-CA) interrupted a committee meeting to demand attention
for CEDAW, they found themselves selectively removed from the embattled “forefront” they had fought to achieve. Helms admonished them to
“please act like ladies” and had the group unceremoniously expelled from the hearing. In protest of both the frustrating disregard
for the treaty and Helms’ insulting performance, Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced Senate Resolution 237, calling for hearings and Senate action
on CEDAW by International Women’s Day.

Many of the women and men who took action on March 8, 2000 are members of the “Third Wave.” This
is a generation of feminists who find themselves arrested between the allure of complacency and the glamour of activism. Although
armed with the influence of “the personal is the political,” we are tempted to indifferently enjoy the equalities secured for
us by the preceding ebb and flow of the feminist movement. However, we possess in this third wave both the
imagination and ability to transform ideologies into living instruments for change.

In her 1969 commencement address at Wellesley, Hilary Rodham asserted that “the challenge now is to practice politics as the
art of making what appears to be impossible, possible.” The challenge now involves the possibility of an international paradigm. In
its design to dismantle all discrimination, CEDAW represents politics as the art of essential action. It also opposes a notion
of globalization that undervalues or neglects the needs and contributions of women.

As a powerful and internationally recognized lever, the convention allows women worldwide to benefit from innovative strategies of political and
social transformation. Feminist and cultural theorist, Julia Kristeva, identifies “dissatisfaction and creativity” as the qualities of a Third Wave consciousness.
In her estimation and in the appraisal of other activists, the arena of international human rights—specifically extended to women—symbolizes the
“upheaval that will require a new ethics” in feminist thought.

The ethics of legitimacy for all human liberation is not compatible with a congress that ignores essential humanitarian legislation—or a
committee chairman who asks his colleagues to “behave like ladies.” In the United States, we have to galvanize our actions
to address the increasing globalization of economic and cultural life. Internationally, we must redefine the concept of human rights to
reflect the position of women in the global order. By identifying and empowering women’s voices, we ensure that the experience
and expertise of women will be included in international agendas.

Both CEDAW and International Women’s Day have the potential to become potent instruments for the international women’s movement. The clamor
of dissatisfaction and creativity and the sounds of phones and faxes promise to manifest the third option of the Third
Wave—a social model that ensures the universality of human rights while respecting individual diversities. On March 8, feminist activists around
the world expressed their commitment to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women. Hopefully, the United States and Jesse Helms
will summon the imagination to respond.

The author is a junior English major from Temple, Texas. She is presently studying abroad in Scotland.

This Summer

The Library

Summer Employment in Davidson

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer workers. Positions are available in all departments.

Interested Students should contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332
