By ELENA SAKKALOU

In the article on Cyprus in last week’s Davidsonian, I couldn’t help but notice certain facts that had apparently been distorted in Turkish “history textbooks.” These misinterpretations of the truth represent Turkey’s policy of misleading propaganda on the Cyprus issue. This petty policy has been in effect for some years now. Although I respect the author of last week’s article, I believe that some of the information therein has been misconstrued.

I am a Greek-Cypriot, born in the generation after the 1974 war, but in a period during which the scars of the Turkish invasion are still visible. My personal experience of this tragedy is negligible in comparison to those of other Cypriots, but feelings of hurt rise to the surface when my father shows me our land that lies in the inaccessible Turkish-occupied area.

After the struggle for Independence from British colonial rule, the Republic of Cyprus was formed in 1960. The constitution, which for all practical purposes was forced upon the Greek-Cypriots, provided that the government was to be formed by both communities. Both the Council of Ministers as well as the Parliament were composed of Greek-Cypriots and Turkish-Cypriots in a ratio of seventy percent to thirty percent. Moreover, the police force comprised Greek-Cypriots and Turkish-Cypriots in a sixty-forty ratio. These ratios did not represent the actual Turkish-Cypriot strength, which accounted for only eighteen percent of the population.

However, the most unfair provision of the Constitution may have been the prescription that the Vice President, a Turk-Cypriot, had veto power over the Greek-Cypriot President. The painful truth about the constitution of Cyprus was clearly depicted by British journalist Christopher Hitchens in his book Hostage to History: Cyprus from the Ottomans to Kissinger. In this work, he states, “A legacy of intercommunal tension and distrust had been created by outside powers, and then built into an imposed constitution.”

Since its formation, Turkey has made several attempts to sabotage the effective functioning of the independent state of Cyprus. This can be inferred from the rebellion launched against the state in December 1963, during which the Turkish-Cypriots withdrew from the government. At the same time, Turkish officers carried out a forcible relocation of Turkish-Cypriots to compact Turkish areas. This was an attempt to produce further intercommunal strife and bring about a geographical separation between the two communities.

Turkish government officials have often voiced their intention to partition the country. Kemal Satir, the vice president of Turkey in 1964, stated publicly, “Cyprus will be divided into two sections, one of which will join Turkey.” Furthermore, F.C. Erkin, the Foreign Minister of Turkey in 1964, stated in an Athenian newspaper, “The radical solution would be to cede one part of Cyprus to Greece and the other closest to the Turkish Asiatic coast to Turkey.”

The Turkish invasion of 1974 had a spurious pretext. The Turks did not come to “defend” the Turkish-Cypriot minority or to “restore order,” but to seize the Northern part of the island that was geographically closer to Turkey. The Turkish army that supposedly arrived to “protect” actually brought death. Their military campaign was aptly named “Operation Attila,” a name that derives itself from the King of the Huns who became synonymous with destruction and pillaging.

Six thousand Greek-Cypriots—the majority being civilians—were killed in that invasion. The ratio it would equate to is comparable to over 3.5.million American citizens. Turkish troops were also responsible for raping women, whose ages ranged from twelve to seventy-one; some of these happened in public and in front of their own children. Two hundred thousand Greek-Cypriots were forcibly evicted or fled in fright from their homes and became refugees in their own country. The fates of thousands of these refugees are still unknown thanks to a lack of cooperation from the Turks. Turkey then began a concentrated policy of ethnic cleansing in the thirty-eight percent of the island that they occupied through force. While the international community has repeatedly condemned Turkish atrocities against Greek-Cypriots on ethnic grounds, Turkey alone still claims that the invasion was a peace operation. 

Last week’s article attacks the United Nations and the European Union for their “pathetic and very humiliating attitude.” Is Turkey right and the rest of Europe wrong? I also found the information on Cyprus’ entry to the EU extremely inaccurate. The Cypriot government repeatedly proposed to the Turkish-Cypriot side that they participate and be informed about the negotiations for the entry of Cyprus. The rest of the EU praised this attitude and labeled it generous. Unfortunately, instructions from Turkey compelled the Turkish-Cypriots to refuse the proposals. The Cypriot government has proposed demilitarization of the island. This suggests the departure of all foreign troops from Cyprus and the presence of a multinational force comprised of NATO members. Such a force will remain on the island for as long as it is needed to find a solution. The Cypriot government even suggested the formation of an equal rights federation that abides by EU legislation. Once again, Turkish insistence on the formation of two independent states showed their dissatisfaction with the present situation on the island. 

The people of Cyprus only demand a basic human right, namely the return of the refugees to their previous homes. We claim the right for free movement, which we have been denied for the past twenty-six years. In my opinion, it is a crime that I am not able to cross the so-called “Attila line” (that has separated the island since the Turkish invasion) and visit the rest of my country. Unfortunately, Turkey is still a militaristic country with expansionist policies that all its neighbors have experienced at different times. The brutality of the Armenian genocide is widely known. Even today, Turkey is steadily and methodically carrying out genocide and ethnic cleansing of the Kurds inside Turkey itself. If Turkey tramples upon the human rights of its own citizens, how is it possible that it will respect the human rights of the Cypriots?

An American painter visited Cyprus this summer. In one of her paintings inspired by the island, she managed to capture the longing of every Cypriot. There is an inscription on it which reads: “A cruel invasion, a thrusting division. A homeland is heart, only whole it beats, yearning for a place in the sun.”

The author is a sophomore Psychology major from Athienou, Cyprus.

Correction: We mistakenly listed Allison Beebe as a member of the record-setting women’s relay team from Southern States last weekend. The name listed should have been Rachel Horak. The Davidsonian regrets the error.