11 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Critical look, from page 7.

indicate that the offender had just killed the Pope. In my opinion, the harsher sanctions, such as suspension and expulsion,
should be reserved for people who violate the Code a second time and for very extreme violations that were performed
with malicious intent and that significantly harmed someone else or the college community as a whole. We as a community,
and the Honor Council as an entity, need to have some compassion. Everyone makes mistakes, and chances are that the
person who violated the Honor Code feels terribly guilty about his or her mistake already. So go ahead and punish
the offender and make it clear that this sort of behavior is not without repercussions. But I don’t think it’s
necessary to ruin students’ entire semesters or years. We are a Presbyterian College founded upon Christian principles. One of those
principles is forgiveness. None of us, including those of you on the Honor Council, are perfect, and therefore we all
need to be really careful when we go around judging other people. I think we need to judge a little
more slowly and less harshly and remember that none of us are exempt from the lapses of moral reason that
lead our classmates into the unfortunate position of having violated the Honor Code.

Moreover, I firmly believe that if we are going to insist upon having an Honor Council made up of students,
they should receive some kind of formalized training for the role they occupy. One idea might be that a mandatory
class or training session be completed before they are allowed to begin trying cases. In order to properly understand and
evaluate their classmates’ actions, they need to be schooled in the different ways in which stress affects people. In order
to mandate alcohol counseling, violence counseling, or other counseling, they need to know what signs and symptoms indicate a legitimate
problem that could be helped through counseling. The people on the Honor Council are making very weighty decisions that quite
literally affect the lives of those they are judging. There is no doubt in my mind that as the Honor
Council currently operates, the people who serve on it are grossly unqualified for their position simply because of a lack
of practical training. Were some sort of training session implemented, I think it would serve to drastically improve the Honor
Council’s ability to evaluate the cases they try.

In conclusion, let me reiterate that I like the Honor Code. If I didn’t like it, and if I didn’t
appreciate the community of integrity in which it allows Davidson students to live, I wouldn’t be here. I do not
condone any transgression of the Honor Code, but when such violations do occur, I believe our current judiciary system handles
them poorly. I think those on the Council often make overly harsh judgments, I think the secrecy surrounding the Honor
Code trials removes those on the Council from having to be accountable for their actions, and I do not believe
the Honor Council members have been adequately trained for their position. In light of John Powell’s lawsuit against the college,
the Honor Code has come into question, and I think we should take this opportunity to question it and fix
the problems. Once this is done, maybe we will be just a little bit closer to the utopian society that
the application of the Honor Code attempts to create.

Katie Schill ‘01

A sheep shears the shepherd

Reluctant to express a heated opinion to the controversy, hesitant to appear overly rash, and desirous of retaining some dignity,
perhaps the students of Davidson College have shied away from responding to the mentioned articles concerning the Powell case. However,
Michael Kruse, you pose a challenge. “Have an opinion. Ruffle some feathers. Discuss,” you dare us. For this, my sincerest
praise goes to you Michael. However, my laud stops there. The onset of your piece demonstrates remarkable aptitude in eliciting
a point and arguing it in a clear and concise manner. Choosing to examine the Powell case from a pseudo-outside
perspective, you put forth two arguments, the first questioning what validity a Davidson student or teacher has in judging Powell’s
mental status, the second illuminating administrative errors. Up to that point, as a writer, you have outlined a legitimate challenge
by forcing your reader to forget for a brief instant a strong personal opinion and ponder the case from a
removed, objective point of view. However, the minute you ask your reader to “think” in the following paragraph, your argument
fails. Perhaps your point would be strengthened by consulting any basic composition manual that instructs on the principles of presenting
an argument on paper. Your comments that follow concerning the nature of Davidson’s student body devalue if not obliterate the
validity of your musings on the Powell case and contradict the intended backbone of your article. The hypocrisy in naming
an entire student body “doers who do because it’s what’s supposed to be done” while simply fulfilling a perceived role
as Editor Emeritus by demanding an opinion through a devil’s advocate role unnerves me. You objectively skirt around your own
opinion as concerns the Powell case, yet your subjective opinion runs rampant in the last paragraphs of your article. While
having stated that Powell’s case should not exist as a personality contest, you subsequently taxonomize the personalities of an entire
student body. This is where your “challenge” becomes rather transparent to me.

Defense, from page 7.

The blanket accusation that these Honor Council members—elected representatives of the student body—are heartless and cruel is unsubstantiated and ludicrous.
Competition for Honor Council spots is fierce—44 people ran for only six available slots last month. Clearly the student population
vests substantial trust in these select individuals to uphold the Code. We agree that the Council ought to always exercise
great compassion. But indeed it does. These students are commissioned with the weighty responsibility of judging their peers, perhaps even
their friends. Their capacity for empathy is the very reason that students, not professors or administrators, sit in judgment of
their peers. It is not at all unheard of for jurors to shed tears at the gravity of the sanctions
that they are handing out. Compassion is of great importance—but so, too, is upholding the justice of the Code. Some
claim that cheating on a test is a crime without a victim—that others aren’t affected by an act of academic
dishonesty performed without “malicious“intent.” Clearly, we are all affected when one of us breaks the sanctity of the Code. If
uncaught, the dishonorable student threatens to upset the curve and invalidate the efforts of those who toiled away to earn
their just grade. If the person is caught, their action casts a shadow of doubt upon the open system of
trust and honesty that facilitates so much of what makes Davidson special. Another assertion has been that students are unfit
and ill-trained to assume the role of jurors in a Council trial. Who better to judge the mindset of an
accused student than his or her peers? Considering that the United States government could entrust an 18-year-old to serve as
a juror on a capital murder trial, surely that same individual (who, in this case, is also a student at
one of America’s finest educational institutions) can manage to adjudicate an Honor Council trial.

For the record, Honor Council members do attend an annual training session conducted by lawyers from one of Charlotte’s most
prestigious firms. Still, some argue that this is not enough. Perhaps it is not. But the suggestion that panelists need
to be “schooled in the different ways in which stress affects people” seems to be without merit. Hmmm, it’s really
too bad that the ordinary Davidson student doesn’t understand the impact of stress.

One final complaint has been the practice of Honor Council members delivering “referrals” for convicted students to obtain alcohol- or
anger-management counseling. But such referrals only call for the student to meet once with a professional counselor—any further counseling is
left to the discretion of that professional. It should be noted that such referrals are typically ordered in place of
more severe sanctions. If an ordinary American citizen can determine whether Jeffrey Dahmer belongs on death row or in a
mental institution, surely the Honor Council should be allowed to reserve the right to refer students to a professional counseling
session before admitting them back on campus.

An overwhelming majority of the campus population abides by the hallowed Code—and each of us is subject to its jurisdiction.
We all pledged to uphold and abide by the Code when we agreed to join this covenant community. A student
who feels unable to abide by this mutual covenant ought to reevaluate the decision to embrace this community and its
respected traditions.

Public disclosure would, of course, help the Council justify its actions. But the importance of an individual’s right to privacy
should not open the door for unfounded and imprudent assaults on the Code and on our peers who are entrusted
to uphold it.

Since we, as readers, have been graced with your subjective “vision of the typical Davidson student,” tell us Michael, what
is your subjective and, if I may say so, real conviction concerning a case where the difference between right and
wrong is so clearly demarcated for me, and the majority of the sheep here at Davidson? To you who attempt
to be some sort of shepherd to the sheep, come back and take your place among the flock. Don’t attempt
to claim clairvoyance until you can grace your readers with a solid argument and a truthful opinion. I have thought
about what John Powell is asking of Davidson and I have thought about what you are asking of your readers.
With careful consideration of the arguments presented in both cases, the determining factors signal that you are both at a
loss. The evidence works against you. Please note, however, that this is by no means a Denham-istic attack on you,
but rather on your arguments.

Elizabeth Kathleen Tripodi ‘00

Honor Code process is ‘sketchy’

It would be a great thing if all indelible memories were good ones, such as your Sweet Sixteen or your
first kiss. Unfortunately, we tend to remember the bad things in just as much (if not more) detail. For me
personally, one of those better-forgotten (or perhaps not) memories is from freshman year here at Davidson. One of my closest
friends told me she’d been brought up on an Honor Code violation. The process seemed pretty sketchy to me—someone else
(unnamed of course) had voiced a suspicion of wrongdoing to a professor who had then, without so much as giving
my friend any warning, filed a complaint. Needless to say, she was very overwhelmed and confused. From my vantage point,
the events that followed seemed warped—within a week, she was gone, and no one said anything. It was like she’d
been “disappeared” by some small Latin American government. Talk about a reality check. I remember sitting at my desk during
the days she was on trial, and also later, thinking that the way this system works, someone could accuse me
because they don’t like me, or they don’t agree with my politics, or whatever, and as long as the evidence
was circumstantial enough, or if I happened to make some slight but extremely stupid mistake, there I’d be as well.
Ever since then, I’ve been even more paranoid than most people are in the face of the Code. I am
the footnote, over-documentation queen. I have actually wondered what would happen to me if I were to leave an exam
crying—that would be an obvious demonstration that my math final had gone horribly, and any classmates of mine might redouble
their study efforts if they were to see me. It sounds annoying to you. It’s pretty annoying to live it
as well. In addition to lengthening my endnotes pages, this constant nagging at the back of my mind makes me
pretty angry. I’d like to think that most of my professors think enough of me personally and of Davidson students
in general to bring an idiotic blunder to my attention, but in light of what I know of the system,
I’m still forced to wonder. And that bothers me. But I believe in the honor system. Or I really hope
I do. It’s part of what assures me that everyone here is busting it just as hard as I am.
But still, if Davidson were a TV, the people would be green and the sky would be purple. It bothers
me. The feeling that something is out of joint pokes me in the ribs frequently. There are a lot of
issues regarding the trial’s proceedings that my friend isn’t allowed to discuss. She had no choice about signing the agreement
to remain silent, and,

See Sketchy, page 9.
