A’ H Women four-peat at

By ALISON KALET Editor-in-Chief

The fast lane to victory: On behalf of the Wildcat women swimmers, Britta Toleman proclaimed, “We're not going to let them beat us in our house.” And they didn’t. For the fourth consecutive year, the lady Wildcats claimed the Southern States Championships. In front of a packed house of screaming, flag-waving, face-painting, and noise-maker-shaking fans, the Wildcats racked up 756.5 points en route to a 38.5 point victory over second-place finisher University of Louisville.

The Wildcats, who finished the regular season 7-4, shot out of the blocks in this year’s championships, establishing a thirty-point cushion in Thursday’s events. Despite the early lead, head coach Rich DeSelm said this was one of the most competitive Southern States in recent history. “After the [Saturday] morning session we could have lost,” DeSelm noted. “I don’t think with a 50 point lead they fully comprehended that it would be a close meet in the end.”

DeSelm and his coaching staff gathered the team together and told them that if they failed to improve on their earlier times, Louisville would win the meet. Co-captains and seniors Britta Toleman and Beth Wilson inspired their teammates emotionally. “This is our house,” Toleman told her teammates, “We’re not going to let them beat us and take away our championship.” The Wildcats responded to the challenge. “We were on fire,” Toleman said. “Our victory was a response to pressure.” “(Louisville) could have easily overtaken us, but everyone stepped up so amazingly,” added senior Suzzi Bozzone.

“This year’s win was really earned,” DeSelm said. “This was one of the best team efforts and examples of determined spirit that I have been involved with in a championship meet.”

The senior factor: Davidson’s ten senior swimmers have known nothing but Southern States victory over their careers—and they succeeded in keeping it that way. “Every senior has been on fire all season,” Toleman said. “We’re a really tight group and we didn’t want to let that fourth championship slip away.” “The seniors really wanted to win four in a row and everybody worked so hard throughout the meet to make that possible,” said senior Mary Shell Brosche.

Brosche, who was named Southern States swimmer of the meet for the third time, dominated her opponents in this year’s championships, earning victories in the 200-yard backstroke and individual medley, and the 400-yard individual medley. The senior from Anderson, S.C. also helped Davidson edge out the University of Louisville by .96 of a second in the 400-yard medley relay. Brosche, a perpetual member of the all Southern-States team, has never lost a 200-yard backstroke, 200-yard individual medley, or a 400-yard individual medley over her Southern States career. This year she set personal and meet records in the 200 and 400-yard individual medley and narrowly missed setting a record in the 200-yard backstroke.

Toleman helped set a new school record as she powered the second leg of the victorious 400-yard medley relay team as well as garnering third-place finishes in the 200-yard medley relay and the 100-yard breaststroke. “As you get older it’s harder to swim faster,” Toleman said. “I was so excited to end like that here at home. It was an exciting weekend individually, but it came from the group effort.”

Davidson’s never-ending supply of senior talent also included Rachel Horak, Karen Fritchie, Jennifer Howard, Beth Wilson, and diver...Elizabeth Fraser, Howard, and Horack joined Brosche and Toleman to swim the third and fourth legs of the 400-yard medley relay—a race in which Davidson’s all-senior foursome beat the University of Louisville, adding 40 key points to the Wildcat total. Horak also led the Wildcats to a third-place finish in the 200-yard medley relay, while Howard claimed second in the 100-yard butterfly. Fritchie and Wilson, the team’s co-captain and most-improved swimmer, earned fifth place finishes in both the 200-yard individual medley and 100-yard breaststroke. 

“Fritchie had the meet of her life,” DeSelm said. “She blew away her best times at Davidson.” In the diving competition, Fraser finished a respectable eighth in both the one- and three-meter events. “Elizabeth had her best performance ever,” DeSelm said. “She is the first diver to dive all four years and is the rock of our diving program.”

Rising Talent
Davidson’s rising talent certainly rose to the occasion at Southern States. “Every single girl had an amazing meet,” Toleman said. “Beth Summerlin and Tonya Werner did what they had to do in the 200 Back and Heidi Hester beat two Louisville swimmers in the mile.” Sophomore Kendra Berner of Lake Bluff, Ill. proved key in the Wildcats’ relay victories, anchoring Davidson’s come-from-behind win in the 400-yard freestyle relay and the team’s third-place finish in the 200-yard medley. Individually, Berner claimed second in the 200-yard freestyle event and swam a personal best in the 500 freestyle. 

“Kendra is a vicious competitor,” DeSelm said. “She loves to race and always races to win. She always finishes with a strong surge and is the kind of person you want on your team.” 

“Kendra and all the underclassmen worked so hard throughout the whole meet,” Brosche said. Summerlin may be Brosche’s successor in the individual medley and backstroke events. The sophomore swam a lifetime best in the 200-yard backstroke and fell just short of her lifetime best in the 400-yard individual medley. 

“It’s fantastic to have a talented backstroker and individual medley swimmer,” DeSelm said. “She’s a great competitor.” Junior Elissa Weddle also performed well in the consolation final of the 100-yard freestyle. “She’s a very consistent and dependable sprinter,” DeSelm described. Sophomore diver Liz Nugent set a championship record in the three-meter event on Thursday night and finished fourth overall. Earlier in the season, Nugent qualified for the NCAA zonal competition for the second consecutive year. 

“Liz is an amazing athlete,” said Toleman. “The diving program has come a long way,” said Fraser. “The performance of the women at this meet is a testament to the growth and achievement of this program.”

Looking Ahead
So far, the Wildcats have accomplished all of their pre-season goals: they finished the season with a winning record, beat Duke University at a dual meet, and won their fourth consecutive Southern States Championship. According to DeSelm, all that is left to do is perform well at the ECAC meet.

MEN’S BASKETBALL
2/26 Georgia Southern 7:00 p.m.

MEN’S TENNIS
2/26 Campbell 1:30 p.m.
3/2 @ UNC Chapel Hill 2:30 p.m.
3/4 @ South Carolina 10:00 p.m.
3/8 @ The Citadel 1:00 p.m.

INDOOR TRACK
2/25-26 Southern Conference Championships

Boldface indicates home games
*at Kings Mill Golf Course, Williamsburg, Va.
**at Orlando, Fl.

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
2/26 Chattanooga 3:00 p.m.

WOMEN’S TENNIS
2/25 Campbell 3:00 p.m.
2/27 Virginia Tech 1:00 p.m.
3/7 Boston University*** TBA
3/8 Georgetown*** 10:00 p.m.

LACROSSE
3/8 William & Mary** TBA

*at Greensboro, N.C.
Italics indicates Southern Conference games
**at Johnson City, Tenn.
***at Boca Raton, Fl.

BASEBALL
2/23 @ North Carolina A&T 3:00 p.m.
2/24 @ Wake Forest 2:30 p.m.
2/25 @ Wofford 6:00 p.m.
2/26 @ Wofford (DOUBLEHEADER) 12:00 p.m.
2/29 Wake Forest 3:00 p.m.

GOLF
3/5-7 William & Mary Invitational*