S P

LT U S Y
Wildcat baseball improves with weekend rally
Davidson makes up for early losses with 16-2 romp Sunday

By SEAN BURKE
Staff Writer

After losing the first two games of the year but only giving up an average of just 2.5 runs per game, all the Wildcats needed were some hits to put themselves on top. And when it rains, it pours.

High Point 4
Davidson 2
Saturday

Mt. St. Mary’s 2
Davidson 1

The Wildcat hitters got on track in a big way to start Sunday’s first double-header game against Mount St. Mary’s at Wildcat Field. In only the first two innings, the Wildcats scored sixteen runs.

Cassidy Lundin fueled the rally, notching five RBIs in those first two innings. He drilled a three-run double in the first inning and connected on a two-run double in the second.

Billy Ryan also contributed to the scoring with a three-run homer in the first.

Game 1, Sunday
Davidson 16
Mt. St. Mary’s 2

Game 2, Sunday
Davidson 5
Mt. St. Mary’s 4

“Cassidy’s double gave us confidence and we went from there,” said Stu Sloan, who went 4-for-13 from the plate in the first four games.

The Wildcats eventually tallied a 16-2 victory, their first of the season. In the second game of the Sunday double-header, Tim Frend delivered some late-game heroics when his single with the bases loaded drove in Jack Purcell and Ben Brown. Frend’s two RBIs put the Wildcats on top for good, 5-4. Pitcher Wes Self claimed his first victory of the season after relieving Mark Wells.

The first game against Mount St. Mary’s on Saturday was a disappointing 2-1 loss for the Wildcats. Ryan Stroker’s two-run, six-strikeout pitching performance shined for 5-1/3 innings, but the Wildcats’ offense couldn’t get started. The team recorded just four hits during the game and only five men on base in the first five innings.

“We just couldn’t hit well,” said Lundin following the disappointing loss.

Last Wednesday, Davidson opened its season at home against the Panthers from High Point, who edged out the Wildcats 4-2. High Point’s John Cavanaugh drove home what would be the winning run with an RBI single in the fifth inning.

Although the Wildcats sported a nine-hit effort, none of their bats connected at opportune times. The Wildcats had no hits when the runners were in scoring position and no one batted past first base. In his first game of the season, pitcher Wes Self struck out nine batters in 5-2/3 innings but allowed the four runs that High Point needed for the victory.

The Wildcats traveled to Duke Wednesday, but the results of the matchup with the Blue Devils were not available at press time.

Davidson returns home to face VMI in a three-game series Feb. 19-20. The Keydets will be Davidson’s first Southern Conference opponents of the season.

O’Brien Honored

At right, Jen O’Brien is awarded the game ball from the Wildcats’ Jan. 5 game against College of Charleston in which she became the all-time leading scorer in Davidson women’s basketball history. Athletic Director Jim Murphy presented O’Brien with the ball during an awards ceremony that preceded the tipoff of the Wildcats’ Feb. 7 home game against Western Carolina. “It’s been a pleasure to play with Jen the past few years,” said teammate Katy Kamp, who ranks fifth on the scoring list. “It means a lot to be part of her success.”

Men’s Basketball
2/19 @ Appalachian State 12:00 p.m.
2/14 @ VMI 7:00 p.m.

Women’s Basketball
2/12 Appalachian State 2:00 p.m.
2/15 @ Wofford 7:00 p.m.

Cassidy Lundin
...five RBIs in the first two innings of Sunday’s first game against Mt. St. Mary’s ignited the Wildcat offense, which went on to score a total of 16 runs.

BASEBALL
2/19 VMI (DOUBLE-HEADER) 12:00 p.m.
2/20 VMI 1:00 p.m.
2/23 @ North Carolina A&T 3:00 p.m.

WRESTLING
2/19 Campbell 12:00 p.m.

Men’s TENNIS
2/19 James Madison 11:00 a.m.

Men’s AND Women’s SWIMMING & DIVING
2/17-19 Southern States Championships* All Day

Women’s TENNIS
2/17 Presbyterian 2:30 p.m.

Boldface indicates home games
Italics indicates Southern Conference games
*at Cannon Pool