Latin American Influence in Mecklenburg County | On Wednesday, October 18 at 7:15 pm in the 900 Room, there will be a panel discussion on the topic “The Latino Presence in the Charlotte Area: Building Bridges with Davidson.” The panel will consist of four members of the surrounding community who work closely with Latinos and Hispanics. The moderator will be Professor Magdalena Maiz-Peña.

Oxfam Dinner
The Oxfam Dinner will be held on Monday, October 16 from 6:30 to 8:00 pm in Vail Commons. The dinner is intended to demonstrate world food distribution. A discussion of resources will follow.

Homeless Panel
Homeless people in Charlotte will come and talk about their experiences on Tuesday, October 17 in the 900 Room. The talk starts at 6:30, and dinner will be served at 6. This event is a part of Hunger and Poverty Awareness Week.

Briefs and announcements can be sent to JT Tolentino at jttolentino@davidson.edu, or to Matt Garfield at maserpeld@davidson.edu.

By Lindy B. Baldwin
Staff Writer

Last February, the deaths of four Pine View A&M athletes capped off a two-month period in which five van crashes injured or killed college athletes traveling to and from games. Such tragedies caused many colleges—including Davidson—to question the safety of their policies regarding athletic teams’ travel. Beginning this year, the school no longer allows athletes to drive vans to games and provides drivers for buses or vans for all its athletic teams.

Athletic Director Jim Murphy says Davidson’s policies regarding van travel have always been notably stricter than those of comparable schools. “Prior to this season, we allowed teams to take vans if the trip was under four hours and the team would return to campus before midnight,” he said, adding that accidents have been limited to blown tires and other minor incidents. But the school decided not to take any chances. Murphy said he and other members of the athletic staff were uncomfortable with the idea of van travel, especially given the increase in highway truck traffic and the recent string of accidents. Murphy’s staff worked with college President Bobby Vagt to allocate the necessary funding to hire buses for larger teams and van drivers for smaller ones.

In addition to improved safety, Murphy feels the new policy is much more comfortable for athletes. “The physical stress of a long return trip packed in a van does not lead to maximum productivity upon the team’s return to campus,” he said. And then there’s always the benefit of inspiring jealousy in opponents. Beth Corrigan ’04, a member of the tennis team, said that at this season’s first match, other teams were impressed with Davidson’s new method of transportation. Many athletes from other schools expressed interest in the school’s policy and said that they wished their schools had similar travel policies. Given the benefits of using professionals instead of exhausted athletes to drive on long trips home, perhaps other colleges will soon adopt Davidson’s new policy.

Ecumenical Council promotes Christian community
By Richard Vinson
Editor-in-chief

Both in national discourse and here at Davidson, the Christian community has presented a divided and often confusing front on the issue of inclusion and ordination of homosexuals. The Ecumenical Council wants to reframe the ongoing debate in a forum entitled “Many Voices of Faith in One Conversation” next Tuesday, October 3. The Council encourages and respects differing views. They are concerned, however, about the way the debate has been carried out and about its perception in the community. In light of this, the forum intends to “discuss the way the Christian community has reacted” to this debate and to demonstrate a more unified, more tolerant approach to its resolution, according to Olga Granda ’01, chair of the Council.

As Granda explained, Chaplain Rob Spach had intended to begin a dialogue on the inclusion of homosexuals in the Christian community with his letter to The Davidsonian. Both Spach and the Council are pleased to see this debate taking place, but because of its distance from the issue and from the actors involved, “The Davidsonian doesn’t show every side,” remarked Granda. “We [the Ecumenical Council] feel that we need a more open and familiar environment.” Furthermore, the letters that have been printed “show a rift [among Christians], and that is a negative image to present to the larger community.”

This forum is also an attempt to increase the involvement of the Council in its main area of responsibility, promoting cooperation and dialogue among Christian students and organizations on campus. The Council, explained Granda, is sponsored by the Chaplain’s Office and includes representatives from every Christian group at Davidson.son. “There have been times in recent memory that the Council and its members found themselves unable to work together,” she recalled. Now, however, she feels that members, with their differing yet compatible views of Christianity, are excited about their role in the community and eager to make a positive impact. “After all, this is what the Ecumenical Council is supposed to be responsible for,” Granda asserted. She stressed that this forum is not supposed to determine whether or not homosexuality is a sin. “There will be no scripture quoting or arguing back and forth.” Council member Lydia Wilson ’01 added, “The Council recognizes the issue of homosexuality is of great importance to the entire Christian community but fears no positive effect can come out of further debate until Christians learn not only to understand each other’s views and their roots but also to respect those differences.” Finally, Granda encouraged all interested students to attend. Though the event is specifically for Christians, she commented that she “would invite others to come to witness the fact that Christians can agree, can be tolerant, and can behave as the brothers and sisters that we claim to be.”

+ Neigh Porrgl Pink4 BankotAmerica

For 9/25/00 — 10/2/00

9/28/00
Solicitor
Officers responded to a complaint that a solicitor was observed in Belk Hall without a permit and unaccompanied by a Davidson student. Officers located the solicitor, explained the college’s policy on solicitation, and instructed the solicitor to leave the building.

9/27/00
False fire alarm
A student reported that an alarm was sounding in Richardson Hall. Further investigation revealed the alarm was activated because the “tamper” cover was removed from the fire alarm pull station on the first floor of the hall.

9/26/00
Loud noise
Officer responded to a noise complaint located in Watts Hall. The complainant stated that the noise appeared to be coming from the basement and it sounded like someone “beating on pipes.” The officer was unable to locate the source of the noise.

Disorderly conduct
Officer observed 2 subjects urinating on a parked vehicle near Patterson Court. The subjects were later identified and disciplinary action is pending.

Compiled by Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of Public Safety/Campus Police

Erin Berry
from page 1

the commissioners. “Most everybody said that it would complement [the town],” said Kincaid. Added Martin: “We are in the business to ensure that downtown is viable.” Both men said the Harris Teeter could boost the town’s tax revenue, which will help fund services such as parks and recreation. Martin says the town has historically not actively recruited new downtown businesses. “We would like more businesses in downtown Davidson,” said Martin, adding that it is an “attractive place” for business. “A sustainable community includes a grocery store.” The store also could improve town/college relations, much like the post office has done in the past, says Kincaid. “Residents would be in regular contact with college students,” he said. With the opening of the new Knobloch Campus Center in the spring, students won’t need to go into town as much. The Harris Teeter might provide the only opportunity for students and residents to interact. Kincaid stresses that “this is a place where you need to walk to.” He hopes that the college students will not drive to the store, but rather will walk from their dorms. Martin agrees, stating that it is “within walking distance” of his own home. Many students are happy about the project, saying it will make shopping much easier—especially students like Nina Somers ’02, who doesn’t have a car on campus. Students like Somers are happy to have such a nearby shopping choice. Given the current options of shopping in town—the CVS pharmacy, Home Economists natural foods store, gas stations, and the College Union—students say the Harris Teeter will give them a one-stop destination for all needs. But some students also said the store poses a threat to downtown’s small-town image. Ben Carter ‘01 believes that “it is misplaced for the community.” “It’s alright, as long as it is not too big,” said Al Vichot ’01. His biggest worry is that it will destroy the image of the town that Davidson has long sought to preserve. “The idea of having it in town is good, just so long as it complies with the architectural standards of the town,” said Vichot. Kincaid summed up the overall result of the development: “This project will have some costs to one or two immediate neighbors but I believe in balance it will have great benefits for the town as a whole.”