By Trey RAYBURN Staff Writer

The Wildcat baseball team improved to 6-2 overall and 3-0 in the Southern Conference with an incredible win over Duke
and a three-game sweep of VMI. The Wildcats are off to a great start as a result of good pitching
and great run support.

At Durham Wednesday, freshman Derrick Wolpert made an impressive collegiate debut by allowing only one earned run against the Blue
Devils. Junior third baseman Cassidy Lundin started the scoring with an RBI single in the first. Senior Eric Bowers hit
a solo bomb in the second, his first collegiate hit. Tim Frend had a two-run home run in the fifth
that set the stage for his dramatic save. Frend took the hill with one out in the eighth, after Duke
had cut the lead to one and loaded the bases. He could not have dreamed of a better result, inducing
an inning-ending double play on his first pitch. He later said that to deal with the pressure of the situation
he simply convinced himself that he could beat anyone on the Duke roster. About his game-winning homer, Frend said that
he was just trying to hit the ball up the middle, and it took off. The 4-3 victory ended a
streak of six straight losses to the Blue Devils.

The weekend series against VMI opened conference play for the Wildcats. Saturday at Wildcat Park saw the Wildcats win two
games by one run apiece. Pitchers Jamie McDonald and Wes Self both gave credit to the offense for jumping on
the Keydets early. They said that the early run support made their jobs much easier and put the opposition back
on its heels. The Wildcats opened Saturday’s games with a 4-0 and 3-0 lead, respectively. Frend saved both games, and
freshman pitcher Andy Demko picked up his first collegiate victory in relief. Jack Purcell had a particularly good weekend, hitting
two key home runs into the trees. Senior co-captain Stew Sloan credited Jack with providing the Wildcats with much more
than just the three runs his Sunday home run brought in. Jack’s towering bomb ignited the crowd and gave his
teammates the confidence they needed to put VMI away. The reliable Wes Self gave the Wildcats 7-plus innings on their
way to an 11-3 romp. The week’s victories are the latest in a six-game winning streak for the Wildcats.

Women’s tennis continues winning streak
Press RELEASE Davidson S.I.D.

For the second straight match, senior Anna Holland provided the Davidson women’s tennis team with a big lift. She won
a three-set match (7-6 (7-2), 2-6, 7-5) over Presbyterian’s Allison Merritt, securing a 5-4 Wildcat victory Thursday in Knoblauch Tennis
Center. Holland, the team’s lone senior, was a big contributor to the Wildcats’ 9-7 win over High Point Feb. 15.
She won a single match and teamed with Yasamine Hilu to win the No. 2 doubles match.

“When you have a young team, like we do, it is a great sign to see them pull out the
close matches,” head coach Caroline Price said. “Anna Holland really showed her experience in a three-set win. That is what
you expect out of a senior leader.”

The one-two punch of sophomore sensations Forbes Thompson (6-2, 6-1) and Elizabeth Moreno (6-0, 6-3) secured two victories in singles.
Kelley Cantrell also earned a victory over Kelly Fitzpatrick by the score of 6-3, 6-1. Presbyterian won No. 1 and
No. 2 doubles by the scores of 8-6 and 8-2, but it was Cantrell and freshman Rebecca Rigel who provided
the eventual match-winning effort in their 8-5 victory in the No. 3 doubles slot.

The Wildcats improve to 2-2 and return to action next Friday, February 25 at 3:00 pm. Presbyterian (1-1) returns home
Feb. 22 for a match against Augusta State with a 2:30 pm start.

Sports Info

Duke, sweep weekend’s series against VMI. The week at Duke. Their longest in eight years. This year’s team is off
to a good start with its potent offense and solid pitching.

Charlie Balick

Tim Frend (33) zips a hit down the third base line during last week at Duke. Frend had a two-run
homer earlier in the week. The Wildcats return to action Wednesday at North Carolina A & T. Then they head
to Wake Forest before a weekend Southern Conference series atWofford Wrestling falls to Campbell

Press RELEASE Davidson S.I.D.

Campbell rallied late in two matches to pull away from Davidson 30-3 Saturday in non-conference wrestling at Belk Arena. Campbell’s
Carson Orvin (174), who trailed the entire match, pinned Davidson’s Alan Roe with two seconds remaining in the third period
to give the Camels a 12-0 lead. Abner Suarvez (141) won in overtime (13-11) against freshman Grant Doornbos, who will
enter the Southern Conference tournament as the No. 3 seed with a 13-12 record. Suarvez recorded a takedown in the
closing seconds of the third period, forcing an overtime in which he scored two points on his first shot.

Anthony Albert (149) and Wes Wooten (184) each recorded victories for the Wildcats. Albert upped his record to 11-8 with
an 8-0 victory over Mike Cox and Wooten got back to .500 (13-13) with a 9-7 win. The Wildcats (3-9)
will enter the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament Feb. 26 at Chattanooga, Tenn. Senior captain Ian Kaplan (157), a two-time NCAA
qualifier, will take his 25-8 record into the tournament as the No. 1 seed. Campbell (6-4) returns to action Feb.
21 with a home meet against North Carolina State.

Men’s Tennis suffers first loss of season

By Curis HERRINGTON AND Matt PETERS Staff Writers

The men’s tennis team suffered their first defeat of the season, barely losing 4-3 in a close duel with the
Fighting Birds of James Madison. Playing through overcast and chilly conditions, team manager Hank Bahr commented that the “low ceiling
(cloud cover) would slow down our shots.” Still, Coach Frank opted to play outside because the “sun was going to
come out” and because “the Birds had not played much outdoors this year.”

Two weeks ago, in the Wildcats' first match, the team looked like a rusty nail, but with two more weeks
of hard practice, they came out hot and won the crucial doubles point with wins by the Billy Boykin/Whit Hansen
team and the David Webb/Chad Winebarger pairing. After pristine prosets of doubles, the singles were much anticipated. Junior Whit Hansen
gave his opponent nothing to hit. Whit’s drop shots, lobs, and wide array of spin humbled the Birds’ Jamie Elliot.
“What a player,” said Hansen of Elliot. “I think I will never be worked that much again by anyone else.”
Hansen’s doubles partner, Billy Boykin, also won a close singles match against JMU’s Trey Stone. Boykin fell behind but clawed
his way back into the lead and began controlling the key points. “Playing Billy was like hitting against a wall,”
Stone said. “But I have never been beaten by a nicer guy.”

Unfortunately, Boykin and Hansen recorded the Wildcats’ only two singles wins of the afternoon. From the number one spot, Brett
Ialacci lost to Luis Rosado. The day ended in controversy when Alex Okulski lost in a third set tiebreaker. Although
Okulski felt his opponent was dishonest, Alex played well and gave hope for the rest of the season. Although the
Wildcats didn’t pull this one out, the match was far from one-sided. With every match, the Wildcats will gain that
much more experience. “Even though we lost, we were in every match, and come conference time, we will win the
close matches and prevail,” Franke added. The team would like to thank all the fans that came out and look
to avenge this weekend's loss on Saturday the 26th with a victory over rival Campbell.

TRACK ROUNDUP

Ferrell sets record for the mile; women compete in Clemson

Press RELEASES Davidson S.I.D.

The Davidson College men’s track and field competed in the Danforth Track & Field Classic Feb. 11 in Clemmons, N.C.
The meet featured Davidson as well as Appalachian State, Campbell, Gardner-Webb, High Point, and UNC Greensboro. Davidson captured two individual
titles Friday with Brent Ferrell and Dan Gibson winning the mile and 3000M events respectively. Ferrell set both a Davidson
and track record with his time of 4:18.3 in the mile. Gibson’s 8:51.6 in the 3000 is among the top
10 in Davidson history. In addition to the two victories, the Wildcats had seven top-five performances and 21 top-10 performances
at the meet. Next up for Davidson is the Southern Conference Track & Field Championships February 25-26 at the Mini-Dome
in Johnson City, Tenn.
