Alumni, from page 1

days as the Davidsonian managing editor in a time before computers. “We'd start the layout at 9 on Thursday night
and finish at 5 or 6 on Friday morning.” Bayne, a literature major, now works at American University in employee
communications and said the experience has given her new perspective on college life. “I understand the importance of alumni giving,”
she said.

Older Alums Gather to Share Memories

While it was no doubt memorable for recent classes to get together and see old friends, Homecoming Weekend was doubly
significant for the classes of 1935 and 1940, who came to campus to celebrate their 65th and 60th reunions. Wally
Scherer ’40 returned to campus from Florida for the first time in 60 years to celebrate with his fellow classmates
at a Class of 1940 reception which 29 of its 78 surviving members attended. The reception, held in the VAC,
featured artwork by Mr. Scherer, including a poster board filled with Far Side-esque cartoons, a self-portrait in charcoal, and the
“Davidsonian’s Dream.” This last work is a collage of drawings depicting memories from Davidson College. Some are things of the
past — an iron bed and freshman cap — but most are still familiar — a towering stack of textbooks,
an alarm clock, and Chambers. “Hey, Wally,” said Dan Cagle ’40, “You got all four years into this one!”

All of the art present at the reception had been with Mr. Scherer in Florida until this weekend except for
“Davidsonian’s Dream,” which has been at Davidson since he painted it. Mr. Scherer called his artwork a hobby, but classmate
George Milne disagreed, citing the self-portrait. “All great artists do one of themselves!” he said.

Gales McClintock ’40 was also present at the reception, and recalled a Davidson where the all-male student body of only
750 students were not allowed to have cars until after Easter of the senior year. In 1940 there were 10
houses on the Court — nine national fraternities, and one house called the “Kappa Snappa Chapter of the Signa Phi
Nuthin’,” where McClintock lived. When asked if anything had changed about the college’s character since he graduated, he smiled and
answered, “The introduction of you females has given entirely new life to Davidson.”

McClintock is a World War II veteran who flew with the 10th Air Force over China, Burma, and India between
1941-1945. Fellow veteran Archie Coleman ’35 landed at D-Day in a glider as a member of the 82nd Airborne Division;
the casualty rate for this dangerous operation was 50 percent. Coleman was one of eight people in attendance at a
special Class of 1935 dinner. He was joined by his daughter Nancy Adams, KD Weeks ’35 and son KD Weeks
Jr. ’65, Liz and Carl McPhail ’79 (the son and wife of Frank McPhail ’35), reunion chair Douglas Bailey ’35
and his wife Jane.

The Class of 1935 graduated at the height of the Great Depression. Coleman was elated to receive a telegram at
graduation notifying him he had a job at Jefferson Life Insurance. Bailey was also one of the lucky ones; he
had a job teaching English in Rockingham, NC for $84 a month. Between his savings and a scholarship, he was
able to attend seminary, and he has been a Presbyterian pastor since 1941. Weeks, a Davidsonian editor, went to Duke
Medical School with five of his SAE fraternity brothers. He recalled being taken...aside by their biochemistry professor and told, “You
Davidson boys are the dumbest students here!” (They got their revenge when four of them graduated with honors.) His son
followed in his footsteps and remembers his Duke admissions interviewer knew his father. Frank McPhail passed away in 1993, but
his wife and son came to the reunion to share his memories with his classmates.

Matt Whited

The college honored Mrs. Nancy Blackwell on Saturday. According to Carl McPhail, Frank and his brother ended up at Davidson
after their father drove them down from Charlotte and dropped them off with the words, “This is where you’re going
to school.” McPhail went on to serve in Europe during World War II and founded a Charlotte business that still
exists today. At the time, Davidson students couldn’t dance on campus, women were not allowed either, as was playing tennis
on Sunday (which McPhail learned the hard way). Most students worked as many jobs as they could obtain; Coleman joked
he took a cut in pay after leaving college and accepting his full-time job. Almost everyone at the table had
fond memories of a man named Hujohn, who made the beds for the students and had a kind word for
everyone. Apparently, he also had a wonderful memory. When Weeks Jr. came to the campus as a freshman, Hujohn immediately
recognized him and said, “Tell your daddy I said hello.” When asked if anything fundamental had changed about the college,
the group was silent for a while before Mrs. McPhail observed, “There’s always been something kinda special about a Davidson
mind.”

Blackwell Alumni House Dedication

In spite of such memorable events as class pictures, dinners, and receptions, the Saturday morning dedication of the Nancy Overcash
Blackwell Alumni House was the most memorable of the weekend. Mrs. Blackwell began working at the Davidson alumni office as
a junior in high school; fifty-three years later, she has served with every alumni director except one, kept track of
countless Davidson alums and their families, and has no plans to retire anytime soon. Davidson alums from 1929 forward —
plus community members and five generations of Mrs. Blackwell’s family — came to pay tribute to her commitment at the
dedication ceremony. President Bobby Vagt gave the opening remarks, then handed the podium over to Leslie H. McIver Jr. ’86,
1999’s Alumni Association President. With obvious affection, McIver announced Mrs. Blackwell was likely “embarrassed as all get out.” Debbie Dillon
Darden ’78 echoed this sentiment. “There is no one whose name I’d rather see on this alumni house,” she said.
She thanked Mrs. Blackwell for being a mentor at a time when there were few adult women on the Davidson
campus. Mary Robertson Howell ’87 presented Mrs. Blackwell with a scrapbook, and Andrew A. McElwee Jr. ’77, the current Alumni
Asso-

continued on opposite page

(WELL, AT LEAST THE CD WE’RE GIVING AWAY DOES)

Stir and 10 other artists. CHECK OUT WWW.WACHOVIA.COM. *One CD per account, while supplies last. Wachovia Bank, N.A., is a
member FDIC. Account subject to approval. ©Wachovia Corporation

FREE TUNES WHEN YOU OPEN A WACHOVIA COLLEGE account. And a free check card, free use of Wachovia ATMs (they're
all over the place) and free Online Banking. Try to find another bank that gives you all this, plus the
music of Train, Josh Joplin,

TO OPEN A COLLEGE ACCOUNT AND RECEIVE A FRESH CD* STOP BY ANY BRANCH. OR FOR MORE DETAILS,

WACHOVIA
