By Mike ANDERSON
The Wildcat Report

DAVIDSON—In a tumultuous contest that saw momentum change course as unpredictably as a Florida election judge, Davidson outlasted a highly-touted
Penn lineup to capture a thrilling overtime victory in its home opener at Belk Arena last night. The Wildcats’ 84-81
win against the Ivy League’s top-rated team comes at a crucial early-season juncture as head coach Bob McKillop seeks to
steady his squad after a turbulent first week of play.

“Our guys really responded well tonight,” McKillop said, whose team was coming off a 31-point defeat at the hands of
Georgia Tech the previous Friday. “There was a relentless passion in the way we played out there.” A multitude of
Wildcats exhibited flashes of clutch brilliance on the night, but perhaps none was as “relentlessly passionate” as Davidson’s 6-3 sophomore
guard from San Diego, Calif.—Wayne Bernard. Bernard led all scorers with a career-high 27 points while pulling in eight rebounds
and sinking some crucial shots, including a high-arching three-pointer to grab the lead with 3:18 to play in the overtime
frame. As the ball rolled off his fingers, Bernard shot both arms in the air in a Joe Montana-esque exultation
even before the shot splashed through the net. That basket marked the twenty-sixth, and final, lead change on the evening.

“In the beginning of the season, Coach (McKillop) told us that our team was lacking a leader,” Bernard said. “I
wanted to step up and be the one, especially tonight.”

“That’s just Wayne,” smiled teammate Martin Ides. “His intensity spreads throughout our team—we really needed him tonight.” Ides himself turned
in an impressive performance on the evening. The 7-2 product of the Czech Republic tallied 14 points and six rebounds
before fouling out in the extra period. Ides’ sweet baby hook from the baseline with just 17 ticks to play—and
subsequent free-throw conversion—helped send the game to overtime. The extra period has been kind to Davidson of late, as the
Wildcats won their eighth straight overtime contest dating back to the 1990-91 campaign.

Penn took the first lead in the overtime on a free throw by Lamar Plummer, one of three Quakers to
score 17 points on the evening. Koko Archibong extended the Quaker lead to two with a free throw of his
own at the 3:49 mark. But then Bernard’s three-pointer with 3:18 to play gave Davidson a lead they would not
relinquish. Penn’s Plummer knocked down a jumper with :52 to play to cut the Davidson lead to a single point,
but Bernard again answered with a field goal of his own to extend the lead back to three with :36
to play. Junior point guard Fern Tonella added three free-throws over the final :21 to preserve the victory.

The action was halted frequently by a barrage of whistles and resulting free-throws. A combined 80 free throws were attempted
on the night, with Davidson knocking down 28-41 and Penn converting on 25-39.

“I’m not worried by that at all,” said McKillop. “Because most of our fouls tonight were aggressive fouls. They weren’t
the kind of cop-out fouls that you’re forced to make when you get beat by the guy you’re guarding.”

Three different Wildcats scored in double-digits—Bernard with 27, junior Emeka Erege with 17, and Ides with 14.

“There were a lot of different heroes tonight,” McKillop said.of the biggest had to be Erege, a 6-5 captain from
Lagos, Nigeria. “We always know that we can attack (Erege’s) defender,” said Bernard. “If they put a big guy on
him, he can go right by him. If they put a small guy on him, he’ll post him up.” Erege,
who typically plays the small forward position for the Wildcats, found himself down on the blocks in the final minutes
after a pair of Davidson big men—Ides and 6-9 junior Chris Pearson—fouled out. “Emeka brings us such versatility,” said McKillop.
“And tonight showed what that can mean to our team.” With the victory, Davidson moves to 2-3 on the season
while the Quakers skidded to 0-3. Both teams have some big names on their schedules in the two weeks ahead—Davidson
travels to top-ranked Duke and then hosts Charlotte while Penn prepares for Penn State, Maryland, and Seton Hall.

The New Kid on the Block
In just eight games, Jason Ford has provided a huge spark off the bench for the Wildcats. Ford, a 5-11,
170-pound freshman from St. Louis, is averaging 6.8 points in only 11.8 minutes per game. Ford’s best game this season
came in a closing effort at Elon, where he scored a career-high 16 points. For the year, he is shooting
42%.

It was, by all accounts, the kind of game that seasons are built upon. And it couldn’t have come at
a more crucial juncture. Coming off a sluggish start that saw the Wildcats fall to a quick 1-3 over the
season’s opening week, Bob McKillop’s Wildcats earned a hard-fought victory over a solid Penn squad at Belk Arena last Tuesday.
But more importantly than the “W”—Davidson exuded the kind of heart that this young squad didn’t even know it had.

“There were a lot of heroes tonight,” said head coach Bob McKillop. Wayne Bernard, a 6-3 guard from San Diego,
Calif., erupted for a career-high 27 points including a picture-perfect game-altering three-pointer in the overtime frame. But Bernard’s true contributions—in
this game as in many others—could not be reflected in the box score. Instead, they lay in the unadulterated passion
and intensity he brought to the floor. “(Wayne’s) intensity just spreads throughout our entire team,” noted teammate Martin Ides.

Another hero on the night was junior captain Emeka Erege. Erege—who is still acclimating himself to the court after a
redshirt year last season—contributed 17 points and delivered a clutch baby hook from the baseline to help send the game
to overtime. Freshmen Nick Booker and Jason Ford saw key minutes in their first-ever game before the home crowd at
Belk Arena. Fern Tonella sparkled from the point guard spot and was money down the stretch—hitting three straight free-throws in
the game’s final 20 seconds.

The game was one of pure grit, inflamed passions, and raw endurance. The night’s action saw no fewer than 26
lead changes and 15 ties. It was one of those games where the team with that extra ounce of heart
would emerge victorious. And—as so often seems to be the case with Bob McKillop’s squads—the team with the “little extra”
was dressed in red and black tonight.

Season At A Glance
