p EE DAVIDSONIAN

Race relations on campus

I’m responding to an article written on the state of race relations at Davidson. Jenny Joslin’s article begins: “A ‘pre-orientation:’
Why do the minority students have an orientation before the rest of the freshmen arrive? A house on the Court:
Why do the African-American students have their own house on Patterson Court? A table in the Commons: Why do the
African-American students sit together in Vail Commons?”

Although Joslin makes several good points in stating that race relations need to be discussed, no points are made on
where to begin. At Davidson, minority students are expected to be the ones to begin discussions on improving race relations.
However, why isn’t choosing to attend a college, knowing you will be a minority, considered a step towards improving race
relations? Why isn’t that considered a major “initiative to step outside of your comfort zone and reach out to someone
who you perceive as completely different from you,” as Joslin stated in her article.

At Davidson, we are given a unique opportunity to improve race relations, but those who make an attempt at doing
so are ridiculed, questioned, and/or silenced. The article quotes Dane Erickson: “For different people to learn from each other and
break down stereotypes, they need to interact with each other. In many ways, students at Davidson are on an equal
playing field and only need to interact.” Yet, since I have arrived at Davidson, my presence here has been questioned.
Several comments are made, “Perhaps it was easier for you to be admitted to Davidson because you are a minority
and female.” If I am not perceived on an equal playing field, how can we interact fairly? Maybe it was
not any easier for me to be admitted to Davidson than the next guy, whose great-grandfather, grandfather, father, and uncles
all attended Davidson as well.

In order for us to interact, we must each accept that all of us have special and unique talents, regardless
of our ethnic background, gender, and/or family history. We are all equals.

A table in the Commons: Why do the African-American students sit together in Vail Commons? In addition to viewing ourselves
as equals, we must be willing to point out flaws, from all sides, which contribute to or perpetuate negative ethnic
relations. When I walk into the Commons, I see exclusively white tables. Although virtually all white students sit together at
Vail Commons, the minority students are attacked and criticized for “segregating themselves.” So I pose a question that was not
asked in the last article: Why do all the white students sit together at the Commons?

A house on the Court: Why do the African-American students have their own house on Patterson Court? The BSC was
founded on the ideals of Dr. Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, and many other inspirational and influential African American leaders.
Does that make it an exclusive African-American institution? Perhaps the BSC was created to promote unity, “African-ness,” and as a
social organization for African-Americans, but it is by no means only for African-American students. In fact, there are more white
students in the BSC than there are African-American students in my own eating house of 150 women, Warner Hall.

Many white students say that the name, the BSC, “intimidates” them, yet what about the names Kappa Alpha, SAE, and
Pi Kappa Alpha? All of the fraternities were established in the South and originally excluded non-whites from membership. However, now
these organizations welcome most groups. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon National Website states: “Qualitative changes in recent decades have been profound...
Membership today is far more heterogeneous than it was a generation ago as chapters have welcomed increasing numbers of men
from religious, ethnic, and racial minorities, enriching chapters with an unprecedented cultural diversity.” Although there is a shift towards diversity,
The Kappa Alpha Order National Website states: “Kappa Alphas have never claimed that Lee was a member of the order,
but we do rejoice that KA was born under the white light of his noble life. We are immensely proud
and honored that his ideals were woven into KA’s soul, and that he is, in a profoundly real sense, our
spiritual founder” (Kappa Alpha Order National Website).

Although the members of KA (and other fraternities) at Davidson College are not racist due to their affiliation, they are
brothers to other KAs nationwide. The KA members are brothers to a group of men at Old Miss who hired
African American children to pick cotton for their formal and brothers to a national fraternity which did not “appreciate” Davidson
having an African American student in their chapter. Despite the fraternities' exclusively white history, no one questions their presence on
campus.

When I addressed the issue of diversity at a recent Patterson Court Meeting, not only was there an attempt to
change the topic of discussion, but my statements were miscommunicated and I received an email about my “complaints.” Although the
BSC is on Patterson Court, the BSC has not really been included in Patterson Court activities. Many members of other
houses, including the Patterson Court advisor, donot attend functions at the BSC. When I ask why, students respond by saying
they feel uncomfortable, which for Davidson is a valid excuse. If so, then why can’t I say the same thing?
Is it not uncomfortable for me to stand before a group of girls who are not of the same ethnic
background as me at my own house meetings, since I am the only African student member? Is it not uncomfortable
for me to walk into a fraternity party where none of the brothers are of my ethnic group? If I
attempt to use that excuse it is invalid. Not only is it invalid, but I can only claim being uncomfortable
if someone directs a racist comment toward me. Another excuse often used is: the BSC party was not well advertised.
Yet last time I heard, impromptus aren’t advertised either and many students still show up to those.

A ‘pre-orientation’: Why do the minority students have an orientation before the rest of the freshmen arrive? As an African
student, I attended the International Student’s Orientation. Even though I am from Fairfax, Virginia, I found that the orientation was
helpful and beneficial, especially to those students who live half a world away. Yet, at the same time, the orientation
did encourage us (though not by force) to “hang out” with each other. Maybe there needs to be a change
in how the orientation is set-up, but I don’t feel that doing away with orientations will improve race relations overnight.
How can we learn from each other when we’re unwilling to learn each other’s history?

This semester I have attended several events, more recently the Spelman Glee Club, the African Ceremonies slide-show, and a lecture
on the current conflict in Sudan. I asked many friends to attend, but many people argued that they had homework
or needed to study. Homework is a valid excuse, but following the African Ceremonies slide-show, I saw many of these
students partying on the court. There have been many attempts by the Dean Rusk Program, the BSC, the Political Science
Department and other organizations on campus to “reach out” and “educate” students about other ethnic groups, but these events are
not well attended. If people are unwilling to learn, how do we reach out and learn from each other?

In addition, history that may be beneficial to understanding one another remains unknown to Davidson students. We drive by the
college and we learn that “Woodrow Wilson studied here.” Each morning students pass the Sparrow’s Nest not knowing that it
was once a servants’ quarter. Every day, we take classes in Chambers, which was built from funds from a man
who earned his wealth trading slaves. Why aren’t we taught this history about Davidson?

Does Davidson need to do more to improve race relations? Of course. But we must also work to improve campus
relations. Davidson is divided among appearance. In addition to ethnicity, we separate ourselves based on how we dress, what our
interests are, our affiliations on Patterson Court, and on our socio-economic status. Most of the time we do this and
we are unaware of it. Perhaps we should promote unity in all areas. Yet, this cannot be accomplished when students
who are subject to prejudices, due to their gender, ethnicity, or religion, are silenced or ignored. Simply saying “I haven’t
experienced that problem” or “Are you sure that they were discriminating against you?” does not alleviate the problem. However, being
supportive, taking initiative to make a change, and asking how to help, will improve things in the long run.

Aguil Lual Deng, ’01

The author intended this article to run in last week’s issue, but due to an editorial oversight it is being
run in this week's Davidsonian.

To the Editors:

The family of Dr. Sandy Kemp would like to thank the many students who expressed their appreciation for her teaching
and friendship through their inquiries, their cards and messages, and the notes contributed to the bright yellow poster outside her
office. Her students were very important to her, and we hope that her passion for justice and concern for our
world’s marginalized people will live on in them.

Sincerely yours,

Martha Kemp McKnight
Grace Kemp Harris
Winifred Kemp Husted

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Editors in Chief
ANN GREGORY
BEN C. F. JUSTIN

News Editors
MIKE ANDERSON
SETH DAVIS

Sports Editor
TREISON KALEFT

Executive Editors
BURGIN HARDIN
CARRIE RI

Business Managers
DAVID CLARK
PETER CLAR

International News Coordinator
ROSHAN PAUL

Advertising
DAVID JOHNSTON

Web Editor
GAMBOA CADER

Layout Managers
CINDY CLARK
ALEX CALHO

Layout Editors
SPECHAR NGTON
SCHWARTZ

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
