THE DAVIDS: ONIAN

By Kristin TAYLOR

Staff Writer

Artists Adam Straus and John Monteith dredge up things we would like to stay hidden: careless consumerism and bad yearbook
pictures.

Straus’s work makes my fingers tingle with excitement—he uses the really really good colors in the Crayola box, and welcomes
fuchsia, goldenrod, teal, and thistle to his canvases. With child-like exuberance he loads on the paint, adding dimension to his
pieces.

Straus chooses to frame his work in lead and steel, emphasizing that the canvas is not the big picture, but
only a moment captured.

Straus even paints one of his frames; by extending the golden glow beyond the perimeters of the canvas, we wonder
where the painting ends and the frame begins. I couldn’t help looking for extension cords because I was sure the
ethereal skies were backlit. I was wrong.

My favorite piece, “Man on Top of the World,” places a tiny background figure far away from the Budweiser can
and cigarettes and trash in the foreground. A flower blooms in between the rubbish and under another brilliant cloudscape.

Straus paints postcards of beauty while reminding us that the dirtiness is still there. It struck me how disgusting the
brightest, most glorious colors look in neon signs and crass containers of modern convenience. Straus’s work is best described in
the title of one of his pieces, “The Dark Side of a Once Green Place.” Beyond the verdant pastures he
includes the toxic run-off that we all know exists.

John Monteith might seem someone with an excess of time on his hands. Actually, he has photography ink on them.

Monteith’s work morphs 40’s and 50’s era University of South Carolina yearbook pictures into pop art, producing Andy Warhol-like images
with a gender twist.

Upwards of 40 images in each work exhibit berserk makeovers; a cardigan-clad mug cycles through various androgynous stages aided by
lipstick, dark curls, ribbons, and smutty eyes. The original masculine image transforms into Marilyn Manson, Boy George, and that principal
from Grease. There are so many variations on one picture that each work, in its entirety, blurs the individual.

A good yearbook picture seems all but impossible in Monteith’s world. The slight gradations in the black and white shadings
dramatically alter the images that Monteith uses. One realizes how very generic yearbook pictures are—rather than a cause of grief,
these mugs should be a source of amusement.

Each face seems a reject, and the large collages of rejects are very comforting—c’mon, we all hate those people who
take perfect yearbook pictures anyway.

Review: Two new exhibits open at the VAC

Faces stare out from John Monteith’s work

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2000 3

NEED MONEY FOR A PROJECT?

The Bonner Community Fund has $4000 to grant proposals with a service component.

Applications are available in the service office of the Union Basement.

Questions? Call Rosie Molinary x2298

Two layers of chewy fudge brownies, two layers of your favorite ice cream or frozen yogurt and your very own
message on top. Order your cake today.

BEN & JERRY'S ICE CREAM ON A FIRST NAME BASIS.

Davidson, NC 892-0604 202 South Main Street

© Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Holdings, Inc. 1997 Ben & Jerry’s is a trademark of Ben & Jerry's Homemade Holdings,
Inc.

University of WISCONSIN PLATTEVILLE Study Abroad Programs

Learn Your Way Around The World

* Study abroad in England, Japan, or Spain
* Courses in liberal arts and international business
* Fluency in a foreign language not required
* Home-stays with meals
* Field trips
* Financial aid applies (except for summer session)

Program Costs:
* For tuition, room, board and field trips per semester (for Wisconsin residents/non-residents)
* In London, England: $5,475/$5,775
* In Nagasaki, Japan: $5,675/$5,975
* In Seville, Spain: $6,675/$6,975

Application deadlines:
* April 1 for summer session
* October 15 for spring semester
* April 30 for fall semester

For further information contact:

Toll free: 1-800-342-1725
E-mail: StudyAbroad@uwplatt.edu
Web: http://www.uwplatt.edu/~studyabroad

LIKE PEOPLE?

Want a job this summer?

Stay at Davidson!

Be a Summer Conference Assistant Resident Advisor! Office Assistant

Interested? Contact: sag Hector at 6675
