~ Columnist

The 2000 Election has caught nearly everyone by surprise. This author expected (and wanted) to see a decisive Bush victory
with a wide popular and electoral vote margin. Instead, what we have is a contested Bush victory with a margin
so slim that “razor-thin” has become an inaccurate description. What we also have is a vice president so bent on
winning and therefore furthering his own agenda that he has tossed aside civility, rationality, and the rule of law in
hopes of swinging the outcome. For the sake of the future of American elections, we should hope that Al Gore
does not prevail as a result of these means.

One can hardly blame Al Gore for not conceding the election to George W. Bush on election night when it
appeared that the Florida count was narrowing. This author is not about to criticize this because the narrowing that Gore
saw was a legitimate reason to postpone any concession. However, this is the last time in this article that you
will see this author register agreement with our despicable vice president.

George W. Bush won the first count in Florida. The recount, mandated by law, was a necessary step to ensure
the accuracy of the original numbers. Yet, before the recount was completed, Gore’s team sent scores of lawyers and one
notorious race baiter to Florida in order to undermine the results, should they not be in Gore’s favor. Many heated
buzzwords were thrown about by the Gore team, but the biggest zinger of all was “disenfranchisement.” Here is this author’s
substitute heated buzzword: stupidity.

A person is disenfranchised when his right to vote has been taken away. Murderers are disenfranchised. Dead people are disenfranchised.
The stupid, regardless of our wishes to the contrary, are not disenfranchised simply by virtue of their stupidity. When a
voter fails (read: is too stupid) to follow an arrow from their preferred candidate to the numbered hole to punch,
this is not disenfranchisement. These people had their right to vote and they exercised their right to vote. It is
no fault of the state or of any candidate should a person not vote how they claim to have intended.

This author recognizes that if some voters had been more careful—if indeed they truly did “miscast” their vote—this election could
very well have gone to Al Gore. But in elections, votes are counted based on how a person voted, not
based on how a person says.

---

Invisible: The forgotten poor in America

By ALEX MASSENGALE AND JOSH CRAFT

Columnists

Last Friday in Chapel Hill, we decided to stop by Caribou Coffee to counter the chilly evening. While sipping our
bad coffee, we spotted a poor man, probably mentally ill, harassing passersby. After a little while, police officers arrived on
the scene. From their tone and mannerisms, we could tell this man frequently haunted downtown Chapel Hill. Although we were
glad to see him harass no more wealthy alumni, we realized that sweeping him off the street night after night
is not the solution to his problems. The man will be on the street once again, begging for money and
the cops will once again scold him and send him away.

This event is a microcosm of what happens to the poor in our society. Rather than formulate permanent solutions, we
would rather just sweep the poor from view, so that we don’t feel the guilt of their suffering on our
conscience. The poor have been non-existent in politics in general for some time. Both Democrats and Republicans love to talk
about how their policies would help alleviate poverty. Gore preaches using our “prosperity to help those most in need” and
Bush claims he would substantially reduce their tax burden. But do they offer any real help? No, these policies are
just vague ideas that don’t offer the poor any real relief.

The political climate in this nation is much too hostile to aiding the poor. But why is this? Theda Skocpol,
a Harvard sociologist, reports that the main problem is that these citizens are “disproportionately black and urban which makes them
unpopular targets for federal largesse.” People do not identify with this segment of our society and believe they are undeserving
of public assistance. Somehow, the poor, deprived of a proper education and the opportunity for work, are expected to be
able to succeed on their own. The public constructs an image of the poor as a lazy and savage group
whose failures are self-generated. This image seeks to exonerate society from its responsibility to provide for the least wealthy.

In truth, there are millions of poor, working families in this country, who put in more hours than the average
million-dollar CEO would ever dream of. Yet this ugly stereotype remains. What people fail to understand is the degree of
social stratification in this, our great nation. We live in the richest society in the history of the world yet
we have the highest rate of single motherhood and the highest rate of child poverty in the developed world. Fourteen
percent of American households now fall under the poverty line.

The news media and politicians harp incessantly about “our prosperity” yet fail to address the fact that that same prosperity
has yet to reach those elements of society most in need. The trickle-down effect, much hyped during the Reagan-era, has
failed to give the poorest an adequate income. If one glances at a few figures, this becomes painfully clear. For
instance, during the period from 1973 to 1996 the median income of the poorest twenty percent of our population rose
by .7% while the income of the richest five percent rose by 49.8% (www.census.gov). Because of wage stagnation and the
rising costs of living, the average net worth of a household from the bottom forty percent of society has plunged
76.3% over the last fifteen years while the average net worth of the wealthiest one percent of American households has
risen by 42% (www.levy.org).

According to Edward Wolff, the richest one percent of our society now control more wealth than the bottom 95% of
the population. This is unconscionable for a society founded on the principles of equality. But how can we, as a
society, address the problems of such stark inequality? We have to stop pretending poverty doesn’t exist and open a frank
dialogue on the root causes of our huge income disparity and possible solutions for bridging the gap. Finding ways to
convince the public that entitlement programs are necessary is a crucial first step in the fight against extreme poverty. Because
our economic boom has not benefited the majority of our society, we must find innovative ways to help the poor.
After all, the working class have been instrumental in creating our nation’s newfound wealth. They “deserve” to reap the benefits
of their labor. We as a society must grow up, open up our eyes to the plight of those who
toil in our fields and factories, and enact meaningful social change.Less is inexcusable. He readied to vote. It is a
shame that in this case the election is so close that a non-issue like this is brought to the fore,
but voters must be personally responsible to exercise care when exercising their right to vote. Al Gore has reacted to
his apparent loss in a way that is destructive to our unique electoral process. Instantly after learning for the first
time of his loss in Florida, he sent many lawyers there to prepare for a possible court challenge. The only
thing worse than an election being decided by a court is when Jesse Jackson is dispatched to fan the flames
of hatred and division in an effort to turn the political winds to Gore’s back. Keep in mind that these
steps were taken even before the recount was completed. George W. Bush has won the second recount in Florida, barring
a reversal from the outstanding overseas ballots, so it is possible that we may see more of the same behavior
from Al Gore’s camp before the election is officially certified. It is regrettable, also, that George W. Bush tried to
have a court issue an order to stop a manual recount, but his campaign was right in seeking some more
definite sense of finality to this whole mess. Without any deadline, it appears that Al Gore is ready to continue
counting until the result is favorable to him. It is very disappointing that Al Gore has decided to put his
own interests before the interests of the country. This is not always the case, however. In past campaigns as well
as in this one, examples of selfless politicians admitting defeat, even when there may be fraud, include Richard Nixon conceding
to John F. Kennedy, refusing the chance to challenge the results. Nixon said in his memoirs that challenging Kennedy’s election
would “be devastating to America’s foreign relations” and that he “could not subject the country to such a situation.” This
year, upon his defeat in the Missouri Senate race by a dead man, John Ashcroft said that “there are some
things more important than politics.” With this statement, he effectively expressed his intention to let the results stand, even though
there is much legal precedent showing that his defeat by a dead man might not stand up in court. In
this election, the equivalent of these two actions would be for Al Gore to recall the lawyers, to recall Jesse
Jackson, and to respect whatever are the results of the original legally mandated Florida recount, after the overseas ballot deadline
passes on November 17. Challenging the election in court, subjecting the ballot count to human error and bias in a
manual recount, and perpetuating the claims of disenfranchisement by the stupid are all destructive methods of closing this election. It
is this author’s hope that both Al Gore and George W. Bush will allow the original recount, including overseas ballots,
to stand as binding in Florida so that this country may begin the process of political reconciliation following the deeply
divisive aftermath of Election 2000.

Close the computer centers. Lock up the library. The Davidson Wildcats are 9 and 0, so all Wildcat fans damn
well better go. Just in case you may have been too busy downloading your favorite version of Barry Manilow’s “Copacabana”
to notice, the Wildcat football team has been trouncing opponents with flawless voracity. Now they have a chance to end
their perfect season in front of a home crowd. The game is this Saturday, Nov. 18th at 1:30. Mark it
on your dry erase board, put it in your palm pilot, tattoo it on your forehead, I don’t care, you
will be there. If you’re on life support, I’ll wheel you to the stadium, but you will be there to
witness and share in the Wildcats' perfect season. And to that guy I see in the basement of the library
every home game, you know who you are, if you’re in there during this game I will smash through the
window and drag you out into the sunlight by your backpack for the game. I know we’re not the crazed
rednecks of NC State, but they do know how to cheer for their team with unabashed fervor. I want enough
noise to rattle the bolts loose from the construction of the new Union, since it’s not going to be finished
while any of us are still here anyway.

Now that I hopefully have your attention about my opinion on attendance, let’s set forth a few rules of conduct
for fans at the game. First, sitting down is only allowed when nothing is going on during the game. I
have the means to electrify the bleachers if that is what it will take to get people standing. I think
a few hundred volts would make you hop up and yell like a madman. And on a personal note to
any parents that happen to read this, do not even try to make the futile attempt to ask me to
sit down, because you will be met with... well I don’t even want to think about it. Making fan history,
or school sanctions — mandatory attendance for the game, whatever... tucked between their legs. Next, on 3rd down and anything
you will cheer. This is the crucial down on offense or defense, so make as much noise as possible to
cheer the team on. A popular cheer on kickoff is not chatting to the person sitting next to you about
how someone else had the tenacity to wear the same pants as you, but to build up to a tumultuous
uproar until the kickoff is made. Anything the ref calls against us is wrong. I really don’t care if Sam
Fraundorf picks up the quarterback and tosses his broken body at the sidelines, the ref is the enemy and he
will be treated as such by the fans in the crowd. The cheerleaders are a wonderful group of girls, but
there’s only so much a pom-pom can do. Whenever they address the crowd, respond with such noise that it blows
their black and white skirts up (then cheer again).

Tailgating. There is a vicious rumor that the school is providing a “beverage” truck for the court before the game,
but I would not take this to heart. Since the cordial campus cops have effectively lopped off one of a
fan’s testicles by stopping tailgates, (pardon me ladies, and the PC afflicted, for the blatant use of violent and aggressive
sexual language for my analogy. If thinking of removing a leg from a table helps you be more at ease
with yourself then think of that) I would recommend finding a place you can gather with your friends, eat some
Bojangles and get pumped up for the game. In closing, I make a final plea to the student body of
Davidson College to pack Richardson Stadium for the final football game of the year and be part of fan history
once the Wildcats send the Hoyas back to our nation’s capital with their stubby tails.

SuperFan #99, Charles “Waldo” Waldron ’02
