“When we examine why we act the way we do, we find spirituality—spirit, soul, and we challenge the assumptions and
beliefs of Scott.

FEATURES

How do you express your spirituality?

THE DAVIDSONIAN
By Linsey VAALA
Staff Writer

Zen meditation, service work, feng shui, music, or art? What signifies spirituality for you? Webster’s dictionary likens the adjective “spiritual”
to “intellectual,” “soulful,” and “incorporeal,” yet spirituality is difficult to define; there is no black and white. Spirituality can be
an emotion, feeling, or a fleeting thought. We cannot name it or pinpoint its exact location within us, but most
of us express it every day in personal and unique ways. Spirituality is often linked with religion, though they are
not synonymous. Frequent church attendance is not a prerequisite for spirituality. Davidson boasts numerous non-denominational and non-religious outlets for spiritual
expression.

Interfaith Fellowship, for example, was started last spring by Sanjana Karim. At the group’s meetings, which are open to everyone,
people often lie on the floor and exchange personal stories or poetry readings, as well as utilize more traditional forms
of worship. Participants describe the atmosphere as “comfortable and satisfying.”

Formerly known as Chapel Committee, Sanctuary focuses on social justice. It is a “faith-based, justice-oriented Christian fellowship group with a
strong emphasis on service and action from a progressive Christian standpoint,” describes group leader Cader Howard. “In addition to performing
service, we seek to educate the community about social justice and peace issues, to advocate for those who suffer oppression
in any form, to work for positive changes in our community and in our world, and to proclaim the rightful
place of justice and righteousness in all communities and in all lives.” Currently, members participate with Room in the Inn,
a project that provides on-campus shelter for homeless guests.

However, spiritual expression is not limited to organized groups. Senior Jenny Lyon finds a spiritual outlet through her artistic masterpieces.
Her upcoming senior art show, scheduled to open April 12th, will be a visual “book of hours” with each hour
dedicated to the Virgin Mary and the baby Christ. “I am using this spiritual format as a place to muse
on the affinity of the immaculate conception with the creative process itself,” Lyon described. Furthermore, according to Lyon, the suffering
of the Virgin Mary parallels crimes against women such as rape and abuse.

Spirituality also extends beyond Davidson’s campus. Led by Rev. Rob Spach and assistant minister to DUMC, several students embark on
an annual “reverse mission trip” to Central America. This year thirteen students will travel to Nicaragua. According to Spach, the
goal is to learn from the faith of the people they meet and reflect on what it means to be
a Christian in an impoverished, non-American environment.

Rev. Brenda Tapia also conducts alternative spiritual opportunities both on and off campus. She describes her guided meditations as spiritual
and relaxing and believes everyone possesses spiritual gifts and special talents. Davidson: the challenge is on the table. How do
you express your spirituality?

The miraculous in the ordinary
By Kye Erickson
Staff Writer

The alarm whines. I hit the snooze button. The alarm whines again. I hit the snooze button one more time.
The alarm whines. I give up and shut the alarm off. I roll out of bed and step on my
boots lying on the floor. Tripping to the sink, I pry my eyes open and jam in my contacts. The
stinging sensation helps me wake up. It is a cold February morning and the floor is chilled from the open
window at the end of the hall.”the hall as I sleep-walk into the bathroom. The freezing water takes my breath
away. I forgot to check the temperature in the shower. The water beads and dries on my skin, making my
skin rise in goosebumps. Shirt, pants, and sweater sleepily find their way onto my body. I shoulder my backpack and
head out the door. Every morning I am tired and severely inconvenienced by my early class, yet as soon as
I walk out the door I am transformed. I am the only person encompassed in the early morning haze that
grays the lawn, shades the trees, and cools the air. Untouched dew carpets the grass and muddy clay. The chill
in the air stings my lungs and tickles my nose. The Chapel steeple rises sublimely above the tops of leafless
trees and breaks through the haze framed by a smoky sky. Meanwhile, Phi and Ew halls rest in sage debate.
The quiet from Main St. drifts back to me. I stare up at a dripping tree. The well is weighed
down by the wet ivy. The brick is moist and the benches damp. The haze crawls about them. Chambers shrugs
the haze off as her bald dome causes me to shiver with intimidation. The brick is slick beneath my feet.
Gravel crunches and mud splashes under my feet as momentum throws me down a hill, and then leaves me to
struggle. Sleeping kudzu surrounds me with a brown brittleness. The hills roll gently and the tall grass glides past my
thighs. The trees sit petrified in the breathless afternoon while a bird sings to my right and leaves rustle to
my left. My eyes, normally fixed on my shoelaces, search about me. Is it a rabbit? Blackish-brown wrinkled bark rushes
past me on all sides. The setting sun and a solitary late afternoon breeze chill the sweat on my back
and chest. I wipe the sweat off my face with my sleeve. My lungs sting and my throat feels dry.
The trees stand naked about me. The thick green grass and the supple clay soften the ground as I lay
down. I watch the clouds swirl in the sky. Some are thin and wispy while some look thick and supple.
They race across a blue sky that conjures up a richness of pure and perfect images. The cool air brushes
against my face as I stroll down the hill. The sun sets to my left somewhere over Lake Norman. A
car’s hazard lights wink at me as I pass it. Two people throw a football on the lawn next to
me. Stepping over some mud that has been washed onto the path, I walk past the tall oak with the
wire running down its side. I step off the path into the mud. The footprints have been there since after
dinner. I walk carefully through the mud, through the gravel, and onto the porch. The dark blue night glows gold.
The lamps shine fuzzily. The haze has returned. Sharp, green bushes brush against my pants leg. Christmas lights still dangle
off the branches of a skinny tree. The dark silhouettes of trees grow all around me. I hear the sounds
of crunching ground and splashing puddles beneath people’s feet. A hidden face walks past; but her white teeth under her
smiling lip break through the darkness and illumine her face. Two bikes rest unlocked in the rack. I follow Chambers’
pillars to her clock. It’s been a long day. I slide my card through and open the door with the
sun rose.
