@ ALENDA LU: $ a DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2000 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 6 DEAN RUSK PROGRAM

Erin Berry

Bill McKibben, author of The End of Nature

Environmental Conference sets Davidson straight

By Susan Rosison
Staff Writer

Cheers for environmentalism resounded across the Davidson College campus recently in the form of an environmental conference held over four
days. Events began Sunday, September 24th, and ended Wednesday, the 27th. The World Bank provided a generous grant to the
Dean Rusk Program to help sponsor the event. The topic, “International Conservation in the New Millennium,” featured six speakers and
nine panelists touching upon a broad range of environmental issues.

The opening address, given by author and journalist Bill McKibben, entitled “A Special Moment in History,” set the tone for
the conference by conveying a “gloom and doom” evaluation of our current environmental situation. McKibben said, “We need to understand
exactly where we are in order to understand exactly what we need to do.” He lamented the notion that humans
increasingly determine their surroundings by altering the environment. He argued that the worldwide increase in fossil fuel consumption has caused
an increase in average global temperatures, making global warming a very real problem for society. This idea of a drastic
climate change formed the basis for his first novel, The End of Nature. He went on to implore members of
our consumer-driven society to break free from its “enchantment;” to stop thinking only of ourselves, and start thinking about what’s
really important. He determined that “the basic idea [of consumerism] is that [the consumer is] the absolute center of the
universe.” McKibben stressed that it’s difficult to care for the environment when we think in this manner, and encouraged the
audience to “imagine other ways of life.” To finish up he declared, “Something other than money matters in this world...
breaking out of this spell is only the first step.”

The following day brought the first panel discussion called “The End of Enforcement? Collaborating on an Environmental Agenda,”

See Environment, page 5

Town anticipates arrival of Harris Teeter

New downtown development to bring groceries within walking distance of College

By JT Toventino
News Editor

Davidson’s Norman Rockwell-like downtown is anticipating a major new tenant in the form of a Harris Teeter Express grocery store.
Final plans are still in the works, but officials expect the store to open within a year. Once that happens,
college students and local residents will have a much more convenient shopping option, says Davidson Mayor Randy Kincaid. Right now,
“everybody [in Davidson] has to go three miles to grocery stores,” said Kincaid. The only food store in town is
the pricey natural foods store on Griffith Street. The nearest major stores are a 15-minute drive to Cornelius and Huntersville.

The Harris Teeter Express is actually a part of a larger project designed by local architect John Burgess and developed
by The Stephens Company of Charlotte. The site plan covers 2.7 acres of downtown property. The store will occupy the
ground floor of a 26,000 square-foot, two-story building with offices for rent on the second floor. The project will add
nearly 50 new parking spaces and a new access road between Lorimer Road and Main Street. The ground that the
project currently stands on is occupied by the Blake House and the former Cashion’s Gas Station. Considered a historic house
— there are current efforts to include the House on the National Registry of Historic Places — the Blake House
had to be moved, and will be moved to a location on the new access road. Two new residential properties
are also included in the project. The former Cashion’s Gas Station, once used by

PiKA serves its time,

By Lindy Baldwin
Staff Writer

As fall break approaches, students are counting the days until they get a break from classes and a chance to
sleep in for a few days. Members of Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA), how-ever, have another reason to celebrate — their
fraternity is coming off probation after this weekend. The fraternity has been banned from serving alcohol at parties since last
spring, when a few senior members, who have since graduated, had an argument with a Davidson police officer while sitting
on the PiKA house roof. One of the students threw a beer can, though not at the police officer. Mike
Schaefer ’01, the current PiKA president, expressed regret over the incident, saying it was “no indication of how we usually
act with police officers.” The Patterson Court Council handed down the probation sentence after a hearing. According to Sarah Moore
’01, the PCC officer who presided over the hearings, an official citation was issued for failing to “respect college property.”
Fraternities and eating houses reprimanded by the PCC can be fined or given probation. The length of the sentence, as
well as the form of probation, varies according to the severity of the offense. One form of probation is referred
to as “BYOB.” A fraternity on BYOB cannot serve alcohol, but guests over 21 are allowed to bring a certain
amount of alcohol, which they label for personal use and hand over to the bartender. The second kind, full social
probation, strips a fraternity or eating house of the right to host or co-sponsor any event where alcohol will be
served. This was the sentence imposed on PiKA. Since the PCC must approve all parties where alcohol is served and
is responsible for hiring bartenders, ID checkers, and risk managers — plus getting a police officer to monitor the party
— full social probation is difficult to manage.

Artist’s conception of new two-story development on Main Street. The college, as a physical plant building, was destroyed to make
way for the project. The college owned the land that the project now occupies, but president Bobby Vagt declined to
be a part of the planning process, saying that it is a matter between the townspeople and the developer. The
Harris Teeter Express will be similar to the store that is located on Providence Road in Charlotte. It will feature
a scaled-down inventory of groceries, which include dry goods, produce, and dairy products, as well as packaged food-to-go. The store
aims not to serve as a convenience store but to serve people who have limited time to shop and cook.
Despite the benefits, the project was met with opposition by area residents when first proposed last spring. According to Dr.
David Martin, a town commissioner and economics professor, concern centered around a few issues. Townspeople wanted to be assured that
the historic Blake House was not to be jeopardized. Residents also questioned the use of the access road by delivery
trucks and its effects on Lorimer Road. Also, residents of South Street did not want to see their neighborhood commercialized
— a possible spillover effect of the development. “They wanted it [the commercialization] down Main Street,” said Dr. Martin. In
response to these concerns, the town gave the project’s developers in early May a series of 19 conditions that had
to be met for construction to be approved. Among them: Delivery trucks cannot use Lorimer Road; they must use the
new street that connects Main Street to Lorimer. The building must be “compatible in scale and appearance with other downtown
commercial structures.” No construction traffic could be conducted on Lorimer Road, and a bicycle rack must be installed. Providing a
convenient shopping location, while protecting the small-town feel of downtown, was the challenge facing Kincaid and the developers.

FDA decision regarding abortion pill examined. Commentary on the crisis in Israel and the occupied territories. Sports: What happened to
sportsmanship? Field fee? Senior Day. Men’s soccer conquers The Citadel.
