G3

By Mark Copy
Special Contributor

Health care is the biggest issue in the current presidential election. There is no other current political topic that transcends economic, gender, race, political, or any other imaginable divide than that of health care. No matter who you are, what you do, or where you live, sooner or later you will face a health issue. Unfortunately, it appears that a pro-business Congress influenced by the money and power of large insurance and pharmaceutical companies is more concerned about money than the average American’s personal health.

Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore understands that we must utilize our current prosperity to address one of America’s greatest challenges—achieving quality, affordable health care coverage for all families. To achieve this important goal, both sensible and bold steps are needed. A Gore administration will focus on several essential areas of importance.

First, Gore will insure all of America’s children by 2004 and all Americans by the next decade. To do so, Gore will expand the eligibility under the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (CHIP) and hold states accountable for covering every child. Working families will not be ignored, as Gore would extend CHIP to these hard-working parents. Also, Gore will expand health care coverage by creating a 25% tax credit to people ages 55-65 that choose to buy into the Medicare program and strengthen health care delivery systems for all uninsured.

Gore will take strides to protect Medicare by creating a “lock-box” so that Medicare funds will only be used to strengthen the Medicare system or pay down the national debt, but not used to fund tax cuts or other government spending. Creating price competition among managed care plans will also strengthen Medicare. This “lock-box” will extend the system through 2030 and beyond.

Wake Forest hosts presidential candidates

By ZEB KELLEY
Staff Writer

On September 14, Wake Forest University received the call of a lifetime. The university learned that it had been awarded the October 11 presidential debate between candidates George W. Bush and Al Gore. According to the Media Relations Department, Wake Forest was elected last January as one of the possible debate sites; however, members of each candidate’s campaign did not agree on Wake Forest as a site until just a few weeks ago.

During the weeks prior to the announcements, the Student Government Association organized a postcard drive to help show students’ interest in actually hosting a debate. News of this historic event has created excitement in all areas of the university and its hometown of Winston-Salem. The format of the event, decided just days ago, will consist of a “round table talk” hosted by journalist Jim Lehrer of PBS’ News Hour. The candidates will also debate at the University of Massachusetts on October 3, and Boston University on October 17. A special vice-presidential debate will be held at Centre College in Kentucky on October 5.

To receive tickets, Wake Forest students must enter their names into a lottery system. The university has announced that the general public may also receive tickets if any are left by sending a postcard to the mayor of Winston-Salem. These names will also be entered into a lottery. Tickets or no tickets, the university community everywhere is excited about the upcoming debates.

Then, We Want You!!

RLO needs students to participate in Work Groups for the following topics:
Housing Lottery & Facilities Issues

Anyone interested or with questions can contact Associate Director, Leshe Urban at x2188 or at leurban.

Al Gore: An advocate for all patients, young and old

Medicare will also be improved with the implementation of a prescription drug benefit plan. By paying 50% of seniors’ drug costs up to $5000 annually, implementing a catastrophic prescription drug benefit, and providing cost-sharing protections for low-income seniors, Gore will ensure that America’s oldest generation will get every chance for the longest, healthiest life possible.

A Gore administration will be a patient’s advocate. Gore is a strong supporter of the Patient’s Bill of Rights, which will ensure that doctors and patients will be making the medical decisions. A Patient’s Bill of Rights would also protect the privacy of all patients. As long as insurance companies and HMOs make medical decisions, the quality of health care will be measured in dollar signs and not lives saved.

Gore will also advance the lives of the five million Americans in need of long-term care. A “National Family Caregiving Program” will support those with disabilities by forming “one-stop-shops” that will not only provide quality care but also assist caregivers.care and information, but other services such as family counseling and support to efficiently meet long-term family needs. Gore will be a patient’s advocate by continuing to promote the advancement of research and prevention of disease. He has proposed new initiatives that will double cancer research over the next five years and has similar ambitions with HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment. Gore’s experience as Vice-President will be beneficial in understanding and continuing the Human Genome Project, which will change the face of medicine as it is known today.

It is very important to understand that “universal” health care does not mean “socialized” health care. A Gore administration will improve the system by allowing ALL Americans to reap the benefits of affordable health care and returning important medical decisions to medical professionals and their patients. As Gore summarizes, “We need to fix our healthcare system, so that no one falls through the gaps. We must help all Americans get the quality health care they need, when they need it.”

Bush: Help people help themselves
By Rick Bolp
Special Contributor

The current administration has a proven record of falling down on health care issues, as evidenced by the fact that there are 44 million uninsured Americans — 8 million more than there were when Clinton/Gore took office. Governor Bush hopes to reverse this trend by making health insurance affordable for hard-working, low-income families. The Bush plan provides low-income families with a $2,000 refundable health credit so that they can purchase their own insurance. Bush’s plan will also make it easier for small businesses, which employ 60 percent of the uninsured, to obtain lower cost insurance through associations. Finally, Bush will remove federal regulations that restrict states from designing and implementing programs for the uninsured. In short, Bush will put the consumer, not the government, in charge of health care decisions.

Families that don’t qualify for Medicaid and other government assistance and who don’t get insurance through their employer will be offered a $2,000 health credit ($1,000 for individuals) to assist in purchasing a basic health insurance plan. Those most in need will receive the most help. For example, if a family earning $30,000 purchases a health insurance plan costing $2,222, the government will contribute $2,000 (90 percent), and the family will pay just $18.50 per month ($222 annually, or 10 percent). While if a family earning $50,000 purchases the same $2,222 health plan, the government’s contribution will be $667, and the family’s contribution will be $129 a month ($1,555 annually, or 70 percent).

Bush will make health insurance affordable by allowing families caught between poverty and prosperity, which make up the largest segment of uninsured, to purchase a health plan of their own that would include hospitalization, physician benefits, and discounted prescription drugs. The families that would benefit from such programs include 80 percent of the uninsured working Americans and their dependents.

Almost 60 percent of all workers without health insurance are employed by small businesses. These businesses often pass along the high price they have to pay for health insurance to their employees, who, in turn, cannot afford the coverage. Since small businesses provide 65 percent of workers with their first job, Bush is committed to making health insurance more affordable for these businesses and allowing their employees to work and to gain access to quality, affordable health care benefits.

To make health insurance more affordable for small businesses, Bush supports allowing these companies to purchase health plans from multi-state trade associations, such as the Chamber of Commerce, so that they can enjoy the same economies of scale that large employers have, and realize the significant savings that group purchasing brings. Bush also believes that people should have every opportunity to manage more of their own health care needs. To this end, he will empower individuals with greater freedom of choice by lifting the artificial restrictions on Health Flexible Savings Accounts (FSAs) and Medical Savings Accounts.

Bush supports expanding and reforming two innovative health care options for individuals: Medical Savings Accounts and Flexible Savings Accounts. By removing many of the structural design flaws and tax disincentives, individuals will have greater freedom of choice and be empowered to make their own health care choices. Governor Bush’s healthcare plans provide real reform, personal choice, and help for those who need it most. Perhaps most importantly, however, Bush’s plans do not include socializing one-seventh of the nation’s economy. Sorry, Mrs. Clinton.