THE DAVIDSONIAN

International By Ayse Tek

I have always been aware of the animosity between Turkey and Greece. Even my history textbooks in high school held
an undercurrent of hostility, referring to the way we Turks “kicked the Greeks into the depths of the Aegean Sea”
at the end of the Turkish Independence War (1919-1923) - a war that announced our ultimate victory against the Imperial
powers and their puppets. The fear of a potential war between Greece and Turkey had seized my mind so much
that it also triggered my interest in studying in the US - simply to keep out of the picture, just
in case. I may have physically changed settings, but as a political science major, I have come to realize that
world politics is far from black or white and the path to objectivity lies through the appreciation of the gray.
On the other hand, I can’t say that I have mastered it yet and this article will obviously provide a
Turkish view into the longstanding Greek-Turkish conflict.

The roots of this conflict stem from the sixth-century dominance of the Ottoman Empire over Greece and Cyprus. This produced
the ingrained feelings of dislike and prejudice, if not retaliation, from Greek nationalists towards the inheritors of the Empire, the
Turkish Republic. It displays itself clearly on the political front, especially when it comes to conflicts over the Aegean Islands
and Cyprus. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, that part of Cyprus that is only recognized by Turkey, is referred
to by Turks as ‘the junior country’. The sympathy contained in the phrase arises from the sadly manipulated and distorted
history of the Turks on the island, which constitute thirty percent of the population.

The Republic of Cyprus was originally established by Turkish and Greek communities in 1960 and was based on the total
equality of all citizens in all aspects of society. The sovereignty of the state and the prohibition of the island
from partition or union with any other state were confirmed by a Treaty of Guarantee signed by Greece, Turkey, and
Britain in 1960. In case the treaty was violated in any way, the guarantor states reserved the right to take
action to re-establish the state of affairs. This right alone was one of the articles comprising the treaty.

The peace, however, did not last long and the Greeks began an ENOSIS campaign, urging the union of the island
with Greece. A second Hellenistic state in the contemporary world was in the minds of many, including the Greek President
of the Republic, Makarios, as he noted in a speech. “It is true that the goal of our struggle is
to annex Cyprus to Greece.” Ethnic cleansing then began on the Greek side, ridding the Turkish community of all their
political and human rights and confining them into three percent of the island to live in “open-air” prisons. As George
W. Ball, former US Under-Secretary of State, commented in The Past Has Another Pattern, “Makarios’s central interest was to block
off Turkish intervention so that he and his Greek Cypriots could go on happily massacring the Turkish Cypriots”.

Yes, Cyprus was invaded in 1974, but contrary to popular belief, it was an attempt by the Greek military to
annex Cyprus.

Sponsored by SGA, RLO, and The Annual Fund

To sign up contact your Residence Advisor!Turkey’s subsequent intervention was only to protect the Turkish minority and was completely legitimate
and in accordance with the fourth article of the treaty. Turkish troops are still situated on the border between the
two nations, as are UN soldiers. However, their sole aim is guaranteeing security for the lives of Turks, which the
Republic obviously has not been able to provide. Their presence consequently leads to a security dilemma, which is a misperception
of each adversary’s aims. Seeing the military build-up at the border, the Greeks feel that the Turks are preparing to
attack. Hence, they too start an incredible military expenditure, including missiles from Russia that are powerful enough to reach Turkish
shores. Turkey, in turn, smells a rat. Even though both sides seek self-protection, misperception leads to a crisis. However, if
the Greeks blame Turkey for the present status quo, it puzzles me that they don’t realize that if Turkey had
indeed set eyes on “more of Cyprus,” they would have taken action twenty-six years ago when they had a great
chance. It is also very interesting to note the Greek viewpoint that blames the Turkish intervention of ’74 as the
source of conflict on the island and totally disregards their own ENOSIS ideology prior to the partition. Suddenly, it is
the Turks that intruded on the social and economic harmony of the “happily-living” Cypriots.

Currently, the Greek-Cypriot government is recognized as the only legal government in Cyprus, although it lacks the participation and consent
of 30% of the population. At an international level, UN attempts have been an absolute failure. Today, the Greek side
of Cyprus seems to enjoy the advantages of a unitary state, instead of a bi-zonal one. It is not to
the government’s advantage, therefore, to settle a peace and have to accept Turks as equal co-founders of the Republic once
again. The status quo is definitely the better alternative to a negotiated agreement for them. After all, they are already
internationally recognized.

The role and attitude of the European Union (EU) on this issue can be considered pathetic and very humiliating for
all Europeans. A whole continent, bragging about the democratic measures and values they embody, takes an action contradicting those same
values by accepting a state into their union that disregards the existence of thirty percent of its population. Under the
1960 Treaty, the Greek-Cypriots have no right to make a unilateral application to enter the EU without getting the consent
of the Turkish community. By letting Cyprus in, the EU is obviously denying the existence of a bi-communal presence on
the island. This is also contrary to UN efforts, as it destroys the delicate balance in the negotiation process.

It is true that Cyprus occupies a very strategic spot in the heart of the Mediterranean, but so does Turkey.
The 21st century has begun with the world balancing itself in between the superpowers. Even though the interests of the
United States in Turkey cannot be denied, it would be too naive to depict Greece as a victim, considering their
history.

See Spark, page 6.
