THE DAVIDSONIAN

By STEVEN MERIWETHER

On March 26, Vladimir Putin was officially elected President of the Russian Federation, a position he has held since the stunning New Year’s Eve resignation of Boris Yeltsin. Mr. Putin garnered 52.8 percent of the vote, thus surpassing the 50 percent needed to prevent a runoff. His closest opponent, Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, achieved 29.3 percent. Zyuganov achieved a stronger percentage of the vote than expected, and analysts believe he benefited from a large protest vote. In any case, Putin achieved a much greater percentage of the vote than Boris Yeltsin did in 1996, when he garnered only 35.2 percent of the vote in the first round, beating Zyuganov in the runoff.

Putin, an ex-KGB agent and a relative unknown at 47, achieved public acclaim while Prime Minister with a concentrated military campaign against rebel fighters in the breakaway region of Chechnya. His no-nonsense language and man-of-action image appealed to voters weary of the chaos Russia has endured since the collapse of the Soviet Union. He has promised to stamp out the endemic corruption that has invaded all aspects of Russian political and economic life, restore the influence the Russian military once enjoyed, and revive the staggering economy. He has not, however, laid out specific plans. In fact, to those in the West, he remains a mystery. He has never held elective office and was appointed Prime Minister only eight months ago.

As quoted by the Washington Post, Boris Yeltsin, appearing at a local polling station, said of Putin: “Everyone is waiting for change. There will be some changes, but the main thing is that the reform course must be maintained; and it will be. I am sure of this.” But some Russian commentators and analysts also fear that Putin is not interested in the many trappings of democracy and is more than willing to create a more authoritarian state. This view is held by a minority, however, as most Russians have indicated that stability is their most pressing desire. “From the very start,” Putin said before the election, “Russia was created as a super-centralized state. This is part of its genetic code, traditions, and people’s mentality.” Though he argues there will be change, he has also warned against unwarranted expectations, urging Russians, “not to expect miracles.”

American analysts note his seeming commitment to a market economy and indicate a possible thaw in U.S.-Russian relations, which suffered a heavy blow during the NATO bombardment of Kosovo. Renewed arms-control talks and further financial assistance have been raised. However, there is still much to be learned. Until now, Putin has relied on Kremlin officials carried over from Yeltsin’s administration, and a small cadre of advisors he worked with at the KGB. His official appointments will indicate the direction he intends to steer Russia. Putin must also find a way to end the conflict in Chechnya and address the myriad issues facing a nation filled with so much struggling. The most apparent answer is Love. Love for each other, love for God, and love for us.

International

By Grant BLEECHER

We had read dozens of articles on Nicaraguan politics, history, religion, sociology, and gender issues. We consulted the Bible, clergy, and Nicaraguan citizens. But when we stepped out into the hot Nicaraguan air, the smell of burning garbage and the muttering of children begging for money surrounded us. We were far away from anything familiar. We were thirteen Davidson students led by Rob Spach, the Davidson College Chaplain, and Andy Baxter, a minister at Davidson United Methodist Church. We had envisioned this day back in October when we applied for this trip and, perhaps, every day since. Standing on that airport curb, we were anxious and excited, yet inevitably overwhelmed.

Our goal was to immerse ourselves in Nicaraguan life and, as Rob Spach put it, “We wanted to commune with our brothers and sisters in Christ, across borders.” We didn’t go with the intent to build anything, but to learn from them what Americans could do to help them overcome their oppression. We called it a reverse mission trip because rather than go there and offer them ten days of our service, we spent ten days learning how to live an entire lifetime of awareness. In essence, our service begins now by sharing our experiences and what we learned from the Nicaraguan people, so that our efforts can stretch out to the Davidson community and into the world.

As we made friends in the Nicaraguan communities and became comfortable interacting with them, we found humility in realizing that the poor people we met could give us gifts that would leave an indelible mark on us. We spoke with an environmental activist, an economic researcher, a students’ rights activist, the former president, Violeta Chamorro, and many others. We spent several nights living with host families. We ate with the families, worshipped in their churches, and slept in their homes. They told us about their lives and their dreams, and their hopes for the future of their country. Ironically, the culture of love and community they shared with us was a powerful lesson in itself.Shock hit us harder when we returned to Davidson than when we arrived in Nicaragua. Our world was shaken and our routines didn’t seem to fit us anymore. We questioned the things we spend time doing and what we spend money on. Our experience in Nicaragua imparted on us a new lens through which we see ourselves and the world we live in. Once you’ve walked into a shack not much larger than a Belk dorm room with a dirt floor, and a sheet of ruffled tin for a roof, and when you see that the kitchen consists of a table and an open fire for cooking, you start to question your lifestyle of plush carpet and microwaves. With images of hungry children sucking chicken bones that we had finished with, for the last bits of meat, we can’t help but be cognizant of how uneven the distribution of resources is in the world. We go on diets while elsewhere, children’s stomachs point upward from malnutrition. We started to question what’s necessary in our lives. We’re on the cusp of planning our future. And as we look ahead, we face a new challenge: how to enjoy our life, but not enjoy it at the expense of someone else. What is necessary? Luxury cars? Expensive, indulging meals? A $120,000 education? Everyone has to decide where to draw the line for themselves.

We did projects working with street kids who sniff glue, students who have disabilities, people who live off food and findings at the city dump, and at a library providing hope and education for the people of the community. Many of the people we met were hungry, poor, and uneducated. We spoke with a widow in a small village called El Aguacate who had many children, but no land and no job. When we asked her what her life was like she said, “We suffer and we die here.” In a moment of silent contemplation, we asked ourselves how these people are able to endure a life that is service.

Time: 8:00 PM
DAVIDSON IN NICARAGUA: A Reflection on Faith and Poverty
This past Spring Break twelve Davidson students embarked on a journey that changed their views on life and faith. Let us share with you what we learned in Nicaragua. Come see our slide show of the experience and ask us questions about the experience.
Date: Monday, April 17
Location: 900 Room, College Union

The Davidsonian accepts responses to stories in the international commentary section. Please submit responses to the Viewpoint Section.

Introspection in Nicaragua
As well-educated people with a concern for humanity and seeking to live “useful lives of leadership and service,” we must construct our lifestyles with an awareness of people who live their lives struggling. The author is a sophomore English major from Camarillo, CA. Please come to the slide show and discussion on Monday, April 17 at 8 PM in the 900 Room to hear more from the Nicaragua Team.

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:
NATO: Momcilo Krajisnik, a Serb who was wanted for war crimes in Bosnia, was captured by NATO-led troops.
Rwanda: Seven people were sentenced to death by Rwandan courts for their role in the 1994 genocide. Over three hundred people have received death sentences in Rwanda for involvement in the genocide.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:
Nawaz Sharief: On trial for terrorism, hijacking, and attempted murder among other charges, the deposed prime minister of Pakistan was found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment. He was, however, acquitted of the attempted murder charge.
The Horn of Africa: According to the United Nations, severe droughts in this region are putting almost 16 million people in danger of starvation. Ethiopia’s foreign minister has accused wealthy countries of waiting till they saw “skeletons on screens” before they made up their minds on assistance.
Iran-Iraq relations: A Honduran-registered tanker smuggling oil out of Iraq was seized in Iranian waters, leading to increased tension between the two countries.