DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2000 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 12

PERFECTION!

The army of students and the goalposts they destroyed were gone. All that was left on the field at Richardson Stadium were the players and coaches of Davidson’s undefeated football team—along with the lifetime of memories they had just finished creating. Davidson capped off its best season ever with a decisive 41-17 victory over Georgetown on Nov. 18. The win extended the Wildcats' winning streak to 17 games and marked the first time a Davidson athletic team has gone undefeated in the school’s 163-year history.

The game began on an ominous note as Georgetown entered the game looking to avenge Davidson’s 21-point comeback victory from last season. The Hoyas started the first quarter with a scoring drive that took less than two minutes to complete. The pivotal play of the drive involved Georgetown’s All-American receiver Gharun Hester making a difficult catch against Davidson All-American cornerback Ryan Crawford ‘01, setting up a Hoyas touchdown. Wildcat fans appeared concerned as the quarter ended with Georgetown holding a 7-0 lead.

That concern quickly evaporated as the Cats posted 17 points in the second quarter. Sophomore kicker Daniel Hanks put Davidson on the board with a 32-yard field goal. The first touchdown for Davidson came courtesy of a spectacular 2-yard reception by senior receiver Corey Crawford. After initially bobbling the ball, Crawford managed to haul in the pass as he fell to the ground.

“One thing about the Georgetown game is how the guys responded after Georgetown scored initially,” observed Davidson Head Coach Joe Susan. “Early in the year we were fortunate not to fall behind, and when we did I saw a couple of guys get wide-eyed. But when Georgetown scored... our guys responded.”

Davidson’s offense didn’t stop there. Later in the second quarter, sophomore quarterback Paul Nichols connected with senior tailback Bryan Fish for a 47-yard touchdown, giving the Cats a 17-7 lead going into halftime.

“Over the course of the game we out-‘physicalled’ them and out-played them and it was reflected on the scoreboard,” said Susan. “It was a reward to watch how much fun they were having.”

The second half was more of the same for Davidson. Senior Mike Tarver scored on a 45-yard pass from Nichols, and with a comfortable 24-7 lead, the Wildcats never looked back. The postgame celebration that ensued after the game was surely one that will never be forgotten by those in attendance. Both goalposts were torn down and paraded across campus by dozens of ecstatic students. Coaches and players enjoyed victory cigars. For a team with 17 straight victories, the celebration seemed well-earned.

Later, Susan spoke with great pride of the team’s 22 seniors. “The key thing that people tend to focus on is the quality of the players, but more importantly is the quality of the leaders who we are losing. I told them last week that they will always be a part of this team and we’ll continue to rely on the stuff they have given us as leaders during times of adversity.”

The Wildcats will open up a new era next season when they join nine other schools in the football-only Pioneer League. Susan says it presents the program with a whole new set of challenges. “The challenges for Davidson football continue with the transition to the new league. I tell the guys and the recruits that if we are fortunate enough to continue our success we will have post-season opportunities. There is a heightened sense of interest locally and nationally in the Davidson program for both academics and the way kids look at football.”

On that Saturday, when a perfect season was completed, it wasn’t hard to see why.

Debate over future of Outpost heats up - ByRICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

This Wednesday the Committee on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) will hear student suggestions on the future of the Union Outpost.

News 2
Briefly 7
Arts & Living 8
Perspectives 10
Sports 12

Three main options are up for discussion before the CCRL makes its final recommendation to the President. These views reflect the wide range of student opinion on the fate of the Outpost.

In anticipation of the opening of the new Knobloch Campus Center, the CCRL is considering the best use of the Outpost building. According to present plans, the late-night grill will be subsumed into the new café. Other programming may also continue in the new Campus Center. Consequently, the current Outpost facility may be available to any of a number of student groups. Suitors are already lined up for the building. Some students, however, feel that the Outpost should maintain its present status as a neutral space and as an important alternative to the Court scene. From petitions to colorful t-shirts, these differing views are stirring up discussion on campus.

see Outpost, page 4

Students celebrate after the victory against Georgetown

PCC, administration haggle over streaking
By LINDY BALDWIN
Staff Writer

Patterson Court is central to Davidson’s College social scene, and one of the Court’s most established traditions is Self-Selection Night. It therefore came as a surprise to many students when the administration announced that the traditional self-selection streak would not be allowed — and that any streakers would face strict penalties. The announcement came amid concern the administration was trying to alter, or even permanently curb, Court activity.

After successful negotiations between the Patterson Court Council (PCC) and the administration, PCC maintained responsibility for censuring streakers. However, despite assertions by the administration to the contrary, many students feel the houses on Patterson Court are being monitored more closely and punished more severely than in past years.

Too harsh?

Rusk House president Kerry Sugrue ‘01 said, “It feels like we are always being watched and that people are practically looking for things to bring houses up on.” Pi Kappa Alpha president Michael Schaefer ’01 claimed that “all you have to do is look at the recent J-board cases” to see houses being brought up on previously ignored charges. He pointed to more stringent punishments for drinking games, as did Sigma Phi Epsilon president Adam Boyd ‘01. “I don’t think it is any secret that Patterson Court is being more closely monitored this semester than ever before,” Boyd commented.

Both President Bobby Vagt and Patterson Court Advisor Craig Rinker strongly disagreed with the idea that there is a “crackdown” on the Court. “If organizations are found in violation of the policies of the institution, they are held accountable for their actions,” Rinker argued. “At the beginning of each semester organizations are told to familiarize themselves with the policies of Davidson College. Before organizations host any activity they are expected to be familiar with these policies.” Vagt theorized that some of the perceived

see Naked, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Are you a ShyGenius?
A new Internet startup in Charlotte, largely staffed by Davidson graduates, has found a way to help. ShyGenius.com is an online community that connects marketers with their consumers to tap the consumers’ creativity.
News page 2

The Last Zogby Poll
The (Other) Zogby Poll’s Totally Rad and Tubular Choosing Sides End-of-the-Year Extravaganza!
News page 5

Christmas in Davidson
Carols blare from dorm room radios, stockings hang from dorm room doorknobs, and strings of lights weave across dorm room ceilings. With signs like these, one thing is certain—the holiday season has descended upon Davidson.
Arts & Living page 7

A Letter from Santa
How the commercialization of Christmas has helped Kris Kringle.
Perspectives page 8