_, Tur Davinsonian CH Boe x Pagid A epee a Language Resource Se RE SNRE? SPer #BeG nter provides high-tech
instruction

By Johannes Nortinc
Staff Writer

Tucked away on the Union side of the Chambers basement, the newly renovated Language Resource Center (LRC) offers students an
array of foreign language opportunities in a computer-oriented environment. The lab was previously a listening center containing traditional audio equipment.
However, in recent years, the foreign language faculty began to see a need for a more high-tech facility, and many
toured other colleges to explore the possibilities. The foreign language faculty also applied for a financial grant and carried out
a capital project to fund the lab.

In the fall of 1999, renovations began. The space was completely remodeled and rewired to be able to maintain the
incoming collection of new technology. The LRC became fully functional in January 2000. LRC Director Dr. Peter Janssens has been
responsible for installing and maintaining all aspects of the language lab, namely, the physical center and its online functions.

The lab contains an impressive array of computing equipment. In the largest room, a combination computer lab and classroom, new
Macintosh G4 computers line the walls, and video projection equipment is available at the front of the room. Foreign language
classes often meet in this room to use its multimedia capabilities not available upstairs in Chambers. However, the room is
also open at times for foreign language students to use outside of a scheduled class.

The faculty development room also plays a large part in the lab. Using both state-of-the-art computers and conventional audio/visual equipment,
such as a turntable and stereo, Dr. Janssens, student workers, and faculty members create new materials in digital format. The
media is then loaded onto a server which students can access over the campus network. Through the campus network, students
can then utilize an array of information, audio, and video related to foreign languages without ever operating a VCR or
tape player. For example, over the website, students can watch the Spanish instructional series Destinos or watch a Russian news
broadcast.

The LRC is achieving its larger purpose of integrating new technology with the foreign languages. An entirely Macintosh-based system, the
LRC is, in part, an instructional technological facility. As Dr. Janssens noted, “focus on the integration of technology is becoming
increasingly important” in colleges and universities today. The new LRC offers the foreign language departments one more tool on this
increasingly wired campus.

To access the LRC website, simply go to http://www.davidson.edu, click on “academics”, and then click on “Language Resource Center.”

DAVIDSON COURT
Elaine 896-5152
Karen 896-5110
896-8283

Historic Davidson for $103,000-$123,500
2&3 BR. Condos
Fireplaces
9’ ceilings, garden courtyard, tile foyers
Model Open Sat. & Sun. 1-4pm
ALLEN TATE REALTORS

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
EXPLORE THE WORLD’S RELIGIONS while earning college credit
© Study for a full academic year in Taiwan, Thailand, India and Israel
© Earn up to 30 undergraduate credits
© Pursue your academic studies of religion, anthropology, and international studies through readings, lectures and participation in religious and cultural
rituals and activities
© Experience life in a Buddhist temple, a Tibetan monastery, a Hindu mission

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
(631) 287-8474
LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY
e-mail: fw@southampton.liunet.edu
www.southampton.edu/fw
239 Montauk Highway
Southampton, NY 11968
GLOBAL EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL CHANGE

The new language

Staff Writer

You know the feeling. There’s a ton of work piled up on your desk and you’ve done everything humanly possible
to avoid doing it except... cruise the Network Neighborhood. From checking out the latest pictures of friends to listening to
their MP3 files, the Network Neighborhood offers a great source of entertainment during study breaks. Before now.

“If you have any copyrighted material in your computer’s shared folders (Network Neighborhood) then you are violating the Educom Code
and the Davidson Acceptable Use Policy (AUP),” said Bob Macdonald, Davidson’s Residential Network Coordinator.”

Students received an e-mail last week containing the Educom code, which states: “Respect for intellectual labor and creativity is vital
to academic discourse and enterprise. This principle applies to works of all

is one of the most state of the art facilities on Davidson’s campus

Educom codeOutlines rules for computer conduct - no shared MP3s allowed

By AMBER PARKE

Matt Whited authors...in all media. It encompasses respect for the right to acknowledgment, right to privacy, and the right to
determine the form, manner, and terms of publication and distribution.” Examples of this include MP3 files, movies, and music videos.
Downloading files during the day has interfered with the college’s Internet connection. Because too many people are taking advantage of
these files, classes that depend on the Internet are suffering.

“I can see how us downloading files during class time would be a problem,” commented Rob Neuman, ’04, “But the
internet is open to everyone, we should be able to post whatever we want on there.”

One popular program on campus, Napster, may also be seen as a violation of the AUP if it is set
to share MP3 files over the internet. It is acceptable, however, to download these files for personal use without violating
the AUP. Macdonald stipulates, “[But] you must not share [these files] on our campus network or across the internet.”

Davidson College Union Board

By MATTHEW ZOGBY

Union Board

What is “Wacky William’s Wild Giveaway?” You may have noticed something recently in the Union or at Union events. A
large wheel in the Pit contains the names of people entered to win $500 in November. Each name in the
container is a result of people attending Union events and filling out the registration card. It’s simple. For every Union
event people attend, they can add their name to the pot and increase their chances of winning $500.

Why’s the Union Director, William Brown, doing this? Good question. Because he is rumored to be wild and crazy, no
one knows a definite answer. Perhaps it’s to stir things up on campus. Or maybe William’s doing it as ongoing
publicity for the Union and Union events. Maybe he’s just a really nice guy with $500 to spare. Regardless, no
one can argue that this isn’t a great chance for students to make a load of cash without really doing
anything. Ever heard that, “There’s no such thing as a free lunch?” Well, this is your chance to prove that
wrong and have a lot of free lunches.

How can you be a part of this excitement and possibly win $500 for having fun? Simply go to any
event sponsored by the Union Board. Once there, look for the Wacky William’s Wild Giveaway slips. Fill one out, have
fun at the current event, and cross your fingers that your name will be drawn later this month. Plan to
attend the mysterious event planned for November 18 because this is when William will pick the lucky person. Along with
the $500, smaller prizes will be given out at the event as well as each week leading up to the
main event (check out the board near the cafe for a list of winners). You must be present to win
prizes at Wacky William’s Wild Giveaway.

Three students have won gift certificates to Summit Coffee. Their names are posted on the bulletin board outside the Union
Cafe. The winners this week are: Phillip Stewart, Elijah Smith, and Kayleen Hartman. Contact Bridgett Green at x2651 to claim
your prize. Last Monday, William picked three more winners out of the barrel: Trey Davis, Diedre Jefferson, and Christina Ritchie.
These lucky winners will get a gift certificate to the California Juice Company. To claim your prize, contact Bridget Green
as mentioned above. Go check the board every week to see if you or a friend has won. If you
didn’t win this time, don’t worry... the prizes will keep getting better and better. Just continue going to Union Board
events until November 18th when William will give away the $500 grand prize at a huge, mysterious blowout event (that’s
all you get... for now). Every Union Board event attended earns you one entry into the drawing. So come out
and enjoy... bring candy if you’d like, William won’t steal it... we hope.
