Last-minute Wildcat rally comes up short

By Burain Harbin
Sports Editor

They kept the dream alive. Even if it was just for the last few minutes.

After a four-minute field goal drought, Davidson came alive in the last 50 seconds as it tried to pull off
a comeback over conference leader Appalachian State.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats’ heroics fell short as the Mountaineers were able to match Davidson almost shot-for-shot in the closing seconds
and managed to pull out a 77-72 win Monday night at Belk Arena.

Stephen Marshall led the way for the Wildcats in the first half, recording 17 points and nine boards. He finished
the night with his fourth career double-double—24 points and 11 rebounds.

But his lean second-half performance reflected the Wildcats’ inability to get the ball inside, which cost the Wildcats dearly.

“When the guy who scores 17 in the first half doesn’t touch the ball in the first four minutes of
the second half, something is wrong,” head coach Bob McKillop said.

By the end of that four-minute stretch, App State had outscored Davidson 2-11 and the Mountaineers kept piling wood on
the fire.

“The game was decided in the first four minutes of the second half,” said an agitated McKillop.

Mountaineer coach Buzz Patterson, who notched his first win at Davidson since joining the program in 1994, echoed similar sentiments.
“At halftime, we emphasized that the first five minutes of the second half had to be ours.”

By midway through the second period, the deficit had grown to thirteen, 39-52. But just when the Wildcat faithful thought
the Mountaineers had snuffed the red & black attack, Michael Bree burned the net with a 3-pointer from two feet
behind the arc that brought the Wildcats to within 10, 50-60.

Another trey by Wayne Bernard with four-and-a-half minutes to play cut the Mountaineers' lead to seven and suddenly the game
appeared within the Wildcats’ reach.

Davidson, who shot a paltry 37 percent from the floor for the game, bombarded the net with three pointers in
the last six minutes—the Wildcats’ only successful three-point attempts of the half.

Jeff Bergmann was 0-for-5 on the night until he landed two threes in the last 20 seconds of the contest,
the second of which pushed the Wildcats to within 4 points of the Mountaineers. But that was as close as
the Wildcats would come.

The Mountaineers were too quick and too poised in their transition game to let this one slip away, even in
that last minute when Davidson refused to let the flame die. With almost every successful rallying basket by the Wildcats,
the Mountaineers scored one of their own with tremendous efficiency.

“Our ability to defend the perimeter was outstanding,” McKillop commented. “Most of their threes came in transitions.”

An important element of those successful transitions was App State’s Tyson Patterson, who finished the night with 18 points and
five assists.

“Tyson Patterson is the guy who makes that machine hum,” said McKillop. “He has great abilities and we gave him
some open looks that he was able to take advantage of because of his talents.”

The Mountaineer coach returned the compliment. “Landry is one of the best rebounders in college basketball,” Patterson said. “He just
has a knack, and we were really worried about him getting up there and cleaning the glass.”

Kosmalski, who averaged eight rebounds per game going into Monday night’s contest, recorded only seven against the Mountaineers before fouling
out late in the closing seconds.

The Wildcat Roar was out in full force at Monday night’s game against the Mountaineers. The Roar, usually heckling visitors
from behind the south goal, donned the body paint and sported “WILDCATS” from V.I.P. courtside seats.

---

Jason Dickens tries to pass over Appalachian State’s Corey Cooper in Monday night’s game at Belk Arena. The Wildcats couldn’t
pull off a late-game rally and lost 72-77.

---

Men’s BASKETBALL
2/5 @ The Citadel 7:15 p.m.
2/8 East Tennessee State 7:00 p.m.

Women’s BASKETBALL
2/5 @ College of Charleston 3:00 p.m.
2/7 Western Carolina 7:00 p.m.

Men’s INDOOR TRACK
2/5 Clemmons Collegiate Open*

WRESTLING
2/5 @ Appalachian State 1:00 p.m.

BASEBALL
2/9 High Point 3:00 p.m.
2000 Wildcat Baseball preview coming next week

Women’s TENNIS
2/5 @ South Carolina 4:00 p.m.

Men’s TENNIS
2/5 Queens College 9:00 p.m.
Belmont Abbey 1:30 p.m.

Boldface indicates home games
Italics indicates Southern Conference games
*at Clemmons, N.C.

---

Liz Nugent swept the women’s diving events against Duke last weekend and has qualified for the NCAA zone championship for
the second straight year. She is the only Davidson athlete to ever qualify for the NCAA zones.

---

Swim teams defeat Duke in last dual meet of the season. pg. 14

Women’s basketball extends its win streak pg. 14

Davidson wrestling places high in recent tournaments pg. 13

Previews of the coming week’s men’s and women’s basketball games pg. 14-15
