South Carolina rallies past men’s soccer, Air Force

By ANDY LANOHA
Staff Writer

Eighty-one minutes into their match against South Carolina last Tuesday night, the Davidson men’s soccer team found itself with a
golden opportunity to topple the top-ten Gamecocks. Chris Norbet’s goal put the Cats ahead 2-1 and set the stage for
Davidson to repeat the fireworks of last year’s 2-overtime victory in South Carolina, which stunned the nation and vaulted the
Cats to #5 in the country.

But, this year the magic wasn’t meant to be. Just 20 seconds after the elation of Norbet’s goal, the Gamecocks
struck back. South Carolina’s Jordan Quinn was able to break the line of Davidson’s defense and fire a long volley
into the upper corner. Tied 2-2 and having dominated the game from the start, Davidson’s chances still looked good. But,
the Gamecocks refused to be beaten. At the 83:27 mark, South Carolina’s Joey Worthen finished a bouncing ball in front
of the net. The Gamecocks had struck fast and hard, capturing a 3-2 lead that the Cats were unable to
break.

South Carolina’s stunning comeback ended Davidson’s dominance throughout the match. The Cats opened the game looking confident and strong, going
ahead in the 13th minute on a Jon Teterick goal. Even after South Carolina tied the match in the 72nd
minute, Davidson’s superiority remained clear. When Chris Norbet fired home the go-ahead goal, the Cats were poised to capture a
win that they had earned. So it seemed.

“I think we had the better of the game,” commented Teterick. “But, the scoreboard is what matters and we didn’t
have it.”

“We definitely gave up three goals that we shouldn’t have,” Davidson’s co-captain, Dane Erickson, lamented. After the game, Coach Slagle
made it clear that playing well is not enough for this year’s team. “We want wins—there are no moral victories.”

Davidson forward Jon Teterick (“Tet”) scored the lone, game-winning goal for Davidson men’s soccer team this past weekend, earning Davidson
a much-needed victory over the United States Air Force Academy. The hard-fought 1-0 win was Davidson’s first ever over the
USAF Falcons and improved the Cats’ record to 4-2-1. Unfortunately, this was the only game Davidson could play on their
trip to Colorado. The Wildcats’ second match, slated for Sunday against the Denver University Pioneers, was cancelled due to an
early season snowstorm that dropped up to 5 inches.

Teterick’s goal, late in the first half, capped a strong opening period for the Cats. Junior before whipping in a
cross to Teterick beat one man inside the box and shot the ball past the Air Force keeper. Teterick’s goal
proved to be all the Cats would need. At this point, the Cats settled in to hold the lead. The
Falcons attacked vigorously in the second half, tallying nearly 20 shots in the game, but the Cats’ line, this time,
would not be broken. Sophomore keeper Soren Johnson recorded his second shutout of the season.

“It was a really good win for us. Because of the weather, it had to be a gutsy game, we
knew that we weren’t going to win with style.” Johnson added, “The victory meant a lot. We have been scoring
goals, but the ability to sit on a lead and hold it, is going to be crucial to us down
the stretch.”

Davidson will take this win, and maybe a little momentum, into a big match on Wednesday. The Cats square off
against ACC power Wake Forest on Richardson Field at 6:15 pm.

Women’s soccer begins quest for SoCon championship

By JENN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s soccer team had an upset in mind and a national ranking in their sights. An upset over
the Duke Blue Devils, ranked number eight in the country, would have easily propelled the Wildcats into the top 25
teams in America. Yet the Blue Devils were not ready to let go of their high ranking or their six-game
winning streak even to a tenacious Davidson team.

The scoreboard read nil-nil until Leigh Anne Hoskins ‘04 showed some finesse to put the Cats ahead 1-0 in the
42nd minute. Deneille Erikson ‘04 put a great ball upfield to an eager Hoskins who made her move towards goal.
Duke goalkeeper Isis Dallis came out quickly to contest the unpressured Davidson advance into the box. With three defenders on
her back and a charging keeper, Hoskins looked to fake them all—and did. She got one last touch on the
ball which sent it on a course towards the back of the goal. To the 411 spectators, it almost looked
as if the pursuant Devil defenders would succeed. But the lay of the pitch looked kindly upon the Cats for
the first time all game. And Hoskins’ rolling ball won, beating the slow-footed Duke defenders past the goal line.

Like all great teams, Duke responded. Less than two minutes later, Duke defender Kelly Harris answered to get her team
on the board. Harris ripped a powerful shot from outside the penalty box that traveled like lightning into the upper
90 past Davidson goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan. The perfectly placed shot tied the game at 1-1 going into halftime.

The second half saw neither team particularly in control of the game.The pace of the game. The Blue Devils only
took one more shot than the Cats in the second half. Unfortunately, for the 'Cats who played diligently to the
finish, the Blue Devils showed exactly how they earned their number 8 ranking—by finishing those shots. Two unassisted Duke goals
in the second half doomed the Wildcats. In the 67th minute, off of a mishandled cross in the goal box,
Alison Sanders tapped in the winning goal for the Blue Devils. The final goal on the night came in the
86th minute from Duke midfielder Carly Fuller. Following a direct kick (because of a Davidson yellow card 30 seconds earlier),
the Duke momentum kept truckin’ as Fuller gathered the ball down the wing to send a shot past Corrigan near
post for the score. In a school rivalry that only recently included women’s soccer, the Wildcats have proved to be
a very formidable opponent for highly ranked Duke Blue Devils. But once again, the Devils were able to escape with
a close win.

Although the Wildcats’ quest for the Southern Conference title began immediately following Furman’s overtime goal in last year’s championship game,
the true expedition commenced this past weekend when they faced their first conference matches of the 2000 season. The Cats
faced Chattanooga on Friday and Western Carolina on Sunday. Heather Maloney scored 3 goals on the weekend and Leigh Anne
Hoskins scored 2, placing them at 11 and 9 for the season to date. The Cats started off SoCon play
on the right foot defeating the Lady Mocs 3-0 and the Catamounts 2-1 to obtain a clean 2-0 conference record.

The Wildcats faced Chattanooga on Friday afternoon despite heavy rain throughout most of the game. A few loyal fans graced
the stands of the Varsity Soccer Field to see the Cats defeat the Lady Mocs 3-0 in regulation time. Davidson
got on the board early with a goal by Heather Maloney in the 13th minute. Penn Graves sent the ball
in the box to Leigh Anne Hoskins who settled the ball to make the play. After searching for a gap
in the collapsing defense, Hoskins placed a great ball through to a waiting Maloney who gathered the ball to send
it far post past Chattanooga goalkeeper Rawlslyn Ray. Ray had eight saves on the afternoon, but they were not enough
to hold back the pressing Wildcat offense. Late in the first half, Hoskins found the back of the net off
of a play from Deneille Erikson to Natalie Cox. The goal put the Cats up two goals going into halftime.
The only goal of the second half came in the 59th minute from Hoskins once again. Heather Maloney took the
corner kick for Davidson which was recovered by an incoming Penn Graves who sent a beautiful rainbow-like cross into the
box. Despite the wet conditions, Hoskins managed to get her head on the ball and propel it into the back
of the net. The Wildcats controlled the pace of the game outshooting the Lady Mocs, 21 to 6. Senior co-captain
Winnie Corrigan grabbed two saves to capture her fourth shutout of the season. Davidson head coach Kevin O. Hundley seemed
to be contented with this first SoCon win of the season. “We’re happy to have won our first conference match
of the year,” he noted. “Our six previous wins have established us as a top team in the region, but
one of our goals for the season has been to challenge for the conference championship and today was our first
step down that road.”

The second step down that road was on Sunday afternoon against the Catamounts of Western Carolina University. At times, the
feisty Western team seemed quite determined to get their first conference win at the Cats’ expense. But Heather Maloney and
the Cats’ 20 shots sent a clear message to the Catamounts about who was the better team. Both of Maloney’s
goals came in the first half to put the Cats ahead 2-0 at halftime. The first goal came in the
24th minute from a play started by Mary Ellen Schaefer. Schaefer intercepted a misplayed Catamount ball where under heavy pressure
she gave a quick feed to a nearby Leigh Anne Hoskins. Hoskins acted quickly and one-touched it to a waiting,
unmarked Maloney in the box. Maloney was on her own after that, promptly disposing of the ball in the back
of the net past the reaching Western goalkeeper. The only goal of the second half and for the Catamounts occurred
in the 72nd minute by Nardia Moore. Western’s Kelly Barker passed the ball to Moore who took a sharp-angled shot
from about 20 yards out to beat Davidson goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan. The only other real scoring opportunity of the second
half came from Davidson’s Carolyn Stumpf. Stumpf nearly made the score 3-1 when she ripped a shot that ricocheted off
the goal post like a gunshot. But the Wildcats held on to defeat the Catamounts 2-1 despite a hard-fought second
half.

Following this weekend’s matches, the Wildcats have advanced to 8-2 overall and 2-0 in the SoCon. The women’s soccer team
takes their success to the road for the next four games traveling to South Carolina to take on College of
Charleston on Friday at 7 pm and to Georgia to battle Georgia Southern on Sunday at 1 pm.
