THE DAVIDSONIAN

React, Reflect, Renew

All photos courtesy of Cader Howard.

By Amy Pog
Staff Writer

Davidson College has been directly affiliated with the Presbyterian Church since its founding in 1837. The college’s statement of purpose,
revised in 1994, states: “Davidson commits itself to a Christian tradition that recognizes God as the source of all truth,
and finds in Jesus Christ the revelation of that God, a God bound by no church or creed. The loyalty
of the College thus extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes an openness to
and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.”

The revision of the statement of purpose is just one of Davidson’s many alterations over the years. Due to changing
cultural standards, the college has modified and adapted policies and rewritten parts of its governing documents. Furthermore, changing times have
altered the way we live and think.

When we think of “spirituality,” religion often comes to mind. But we must remember that we all define “spirituality” differently.
Each person experiences spirituality differently. What renews one person’s spirit may leave another’s unmoved. In a world where an increasing
number of demands are placed upon college students and faculty, spirituality is increasingly pushed to the periphery.

Students enter college in order to challenge themselves, explore new ideas, and confront issues. But at schools nationwide, including Davidson,
many students and faculty are too beleaguered for spirituality. Multiple obligations and expectations stand in the way of what we
are at college to do — learn and then reflect.

Davidson has mastered the learning portion of this equation. The faculty is bright, intellectual, and insightful, and the students are
some of the most highly motivated, over-achieving individuals worldwide. Put it all together and what do you have? A collection
of people so highly driven, and focused on how to improve upon what they are doing, that they lose sight
of why they are here. In other words, we get so caught up in our academic rat race and in
trying to participate in every service project and cultural event that, ultimately, we spread ourselves too thin. Consequently, we accomplish
less than we intended while sacrificing quality. Instead of focusing on one or two activities, we insist on trying to
be superhuman, and in the end feel like a sucked orange cast by the side of the road.

I asked President Vagt how he sees “spirituality” on Davidson’s campus. “It is a microcosm [of the world]. We are
all too busy to be reflective and spend time with people and their ideas,” responded Vagt. Professor Scott Denham agreed,
saying that our “commitments prohibit reflection” whereas “confronting ideas,” what we spend too little time doing, “promotes reflection.”

I could quickly list the half dozen extracurricular activities in which I participate on top of a full academic load,
but, in the last year and a half, I have found myself asking “why?” Why participate in all of these
activities? Why feel compelled to stretch myself thinner than is healthy or humanly possible? Why are my classmates and others
inthe Davidson community overburdening themselves? These questions lead to others: “What am I doing at Davidson?” What do I believe
in and why? What is my role in the world? I will not attempt to answer all of these questions.
But are not these the precise questions we are supposed to focus on in college? Is not college intended to
give students the time, ability, and resources to ponder, contemplate, and answer these questions for themselves? If so, then are
we being sold short? And, if so, what can we do to change the situation?

The statement of purpose states, “Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and encourages teachers and students to explore
the whole of reality, whether physical or spiritual, with the unlimited employment of their intellectual powers.” Furthermore, the statement says,
“As a liberal arts college, Davidson emphasizes those studies, disciplines, and activities that are mentally, spiritually, and physically liberating.” Has
the college community strayed from the goals set forth in the statement of purpose? Is overburdening ourselves with extracurricular activities,
compromising sleep and friendships, and not allowing sufficient time for reflection the correct interpretation of the statement of purpose? And
what about the “good” that comes from these extracurricular activities — the relationships, the “rounding out” of the individual, and
the invaluable lessons about life and love?

We find ourselves in the middle of a substantial contradiction. The college statement asserts one philosophy; yet, we seem to
conduct ourselves according to another. Does this choice make us less spiritual? Are our lives too busy for us to
wholeheartedly embrace a spiritual life? I believe our chosen lifestyles certainly allow us less time to devote toward fulfilling our
spiritual sides. We are too busy worrying about how many activities we can add to our resumes or about finishing
the reading for our next class. Often, we fail to take the time to actually absorb the material. The question
remains: What is the cost of neglecting our spiritual side?

Perhaps part of the answer is that lives filled with the dogged pursuit of academic excellence and enough extracurricular activities
to fill up the remaining hours of each day do not necessarily follow a path leading away from spirituality. President
Vagt, Professor Randy Ingram, and Professor Denham all agreed that spirituality and academics cannot be separated. “Searching for the truth
and living a moral life are inseparable,” Professor Denham said. “When we examine why we act the way we do,
we find spirituality — spirit — heart, soul, and we challenge the assumptions and beliefs we hold.” President Vagt agreed,
“Academics and spirituality are inseparable. ‘Why am I here?’ can’t be separated from the classroom.”

Maybe we are too busy focusing on the next test, paper, or Ada Jenkins tutoring session to examine the larger
picture offered by these former college students. When there are only 24 hours in which to cram 30 hours of
“stuff,” it remains difficult to find time to react, much less reflect. But we must reflect, lest we miss out
on much of what the Davidson experience is all about.
