o The Devillea Student Government Association faced a crisis of character this week. A proposal emerged that could drastically alter not only the size of the organization but also its composition. Simply put, this resolution would eliminate all Patterson Court representation in favor of a set number of senators from each class. Beneath the contention that this resolution was merely an attack aimed at the “social vote” lay a long history of frustration. Apparently, not even Davidson is immune to bureaucratization and micro-management. The SGA consistently finds itself struggling through a web of self-inflicted red tape. Initiatives consistently languish as members quibble over details. Confusion over which member of which committee is responsible for which issue thwarts the efforts even of those most committed to the SGA. While SGA members promptly enlisted the help of (surprise) a committee to solve this quandary, those who do not have daily dealings with the organization were characteristically unaware and uninformed of the situation. Does SGA do a poor job of describing its actions and purposes? Unfortunately, that seems to be the case. How often are other students aware of what is on the agenda for the SGA in any given week? Clearly, not enough. By the same token, if the lines of communication were more effective, SGA initiatives would garner more support from the student body. A feeling of common interest is essential to combating the lack of involvement on campus. Undoubtedly, the blame must address its inefficiency. Committees certainly aid in making educated proposals. As the number of committee meetings increases, however, the cost in time and effort increases exponentially. In our limited exposure to the SGA, we have seen actions and proposals postponed repeatedly for further revision and discussion. On such a small campus, student government must be able to act quickly and decisively on important issues. The most important consideration, however, is whether reducing the size of the SGA will increase efficiency and accountability. Does reducing the number of members necessarily ensure that the most hard-working elected officials will remain? Surely it is easier to hold thorough discussions and build needed consensus when the group is smaller, but it is also more difficult to accomplish all the necessary tasks with fewer available hands. In addition, every seat lost is one less senator with the ability to inform his or her fellow students. At present, the SGA should find it unnecessary to reduce its size. Rather, through more stringent attendance policies and enforcement of existing by-laws, it should adopt a new, more interactive role on campus. The recent proposals should serve as a warning to all members of SGA—get involved or get out.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors in Chief

The REALLY big questions: response to the chaplain

Well, here we go again. Every year, the debate over the ordination of homosexuals resurfaces. Back and forth the questions fly, and often the discourse generates more heat than light. When the smoke clears and the opposing sides retreat to lick their wounds, the issues remain. They’re not going to go away. Before you brace yourself for a Bible-thumping tirade against the ordination of homosexuals, let me make one point perfectly clear: my purpose in writing is not to argue against my more liberal brothers and sisters in Christ who maintain that the Bible makes no blanket condemnation of homosexuality. It does, just as it condemns adultery, fornication, and murder, but that’s beside the point. If Christians have learned anything from the past two thousand years of church history, it’s that sometimes you’ve just got to agree to disagree. This is one of those times. There’s something else I hope we’ve learned, too: Christians run into trouble when they major on the minors.This is also one of those times. Now, I do not mean to imply that homosexuality is a minor issue; nor do I mean to belittle the situation in which Christians of a homosexual orientation find themselves. They are in tough circumstances. However, the chaplain’s article raises questions that are even more important—and more relevant—than the issues he addresses: What is the message of Christianity? Is social justice the ultimate goal?

In last week’s letter, the Chaplain said that he hears “a call in scripture for us to work towards communities characterized by justice; especially on behalf of the poor and the marginalized.” I disagree. The scripture calls us to something even higher: to communities characterized by grace. Social justice attempts to equalize circumstances: to level the playing field in such a way that individuals can be accurately evaluated according to their performance. Divine justice levels that playing field and determines that none of us is good enough. We’re all dead in the water. We can’t live up to God’s perfect standard, regardless if we’re straight or gay, if we read our Bibles every day or if we never darken a church door. What homosexuals need, what I need, and what you need is not justice, but grace. We need a lifesaver; someone who sees that we’re broken, who loves us anyway, and who has the power to restore us to what we’re meant to be. That lifesaver is Jesus Christ. True social justice can only exist where grace abounds. Therein lies the essential message of Christianity.

Let’s face it. We screw up. The church screws up. Christians (myself included) do a pretty poor job of showing Christ’s love to those around them, and this is especially true when it comes to homosexuals. In the Gospels, Jesus Christ hangs out with “sinners” of all types: adulterous women, tax-collectors, and lepers, to name a few. He spends time with them because they are “sick and need a doctor.” He condemns sinful behavior, while at the same time showing the sinner—the people—the love of God. We often get so caught up in condemning the sin that we end up destroying the sinner in the process, or in our misguided attempts to “love” the sinner we gloss over his or her need for a divine checkup. Neither approach is loving or honest. We all would do well to take a long, hard look at the actions of Jesus Christ.

None of us is really in a position to affect the national debate over the ordination of homosexuals. We are in a position, however, to affect the eternal destinies of those around us. Christians, are we doing that? Talk is cheap. What about our actions? Do we radically love people the way Christ did? Do we humbly speak the truth, regardless of the cost? In short, do we live lives that point others to Jesus Christ? Don’t get distracted, friends. That’s the real reason we’re here.

Katherine Rice Miller ‘01

Outpost artwork shows no respect

Last week a group of friends and I were enjoying our late night snacks at the Outpost when one freshman pointed out that the wall said “What Would Judas Do” and further over “God protect me from your followers - Amen”. As one might expect, those statements became the focal point of our conversation. Those at the table came from numerous different religious and social backgrounds, but all agreed on one thing: those statements should be painted over. While no one was in support of limiting the artist’s freedom of speech or expression, the message that the work sends is disrespectful and offensive. The Outpost is a public “safe place” where all can come and enjoy good friendship and food in an environment of respect. It is not a place to be mocking anyone’s religion. The fact that there has been little public outcry up to this point illustrates how little respect the Christian religion is offered in the public sentiment. If the wall had contained derogatory statements about any other religious, racial, or ethnic group, it would have been dealt with long ago. It is time for the management of the Outpost to recognize and realize that the art they promote on their walls is not passed over lightly by the student body. In the name of respect: paint it over!

John Pitt ’04

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html