8 : THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 2000

Jen O’Brien etches name

FOR THE RECORD

O’Brien in the Wildcat career record book

Points
1416 1st
Assists
560 1st
Steals
338 1st
Field Goals
493 3rd
Three-point field goals
124 1st
Three-Point FG %
36.6 3rd
Free Throws
306 1st
Rebounds
519 4th

Only women’s Southern Conference player ever to score 1400 points, pull down 500 rebounds, deliver 300 assists, and pick up
300 steals.

At 3.8 steals per game, O’Brien ranks 8th among all Division I women in 1999-2000.

By Mike ANDERSON

Editor-in-Chief

She is arguably the most talented hoopster to ever don the Wildcat red and black.

However, you'd never know that by speaking with her.

On the court, Jennifer O’Brien will forever be known as a tried-and-true leader with an astonishing record—she is the only
Wildcat ever (man or woman) to accrue 1400 points, 500 assists, 500 rebounds, and 300 steals.

But off the court, those accomplishments are out-shined by a simple, charming glow that emanates from this 5'6” guard with
a fun-loving grin and a profound humility.

“Jen is just phenomenal,” says head coach John Filar. “She has such a love for the game. She shows her
enthusiasm out there on the court. Off the court, she’s just a pleasure to be around. She brings so much
chemistry to this team.”

“I can’t say enough...”

When Jen O’Brien is on her game, there is seemingly nothing that she cannot do. O’Brien flat out dominates—she negotiates
through defensive pressure with a finesse and style unparalleled in the Southern Conference. She befuddles defenders, working passing lanes with
the efficiency of a teleporter. She chases rebounds with uninhibited tenacity. And, as a three-year captain, she commands the Wildcat
troops with a stirring intensity.

“I can’t say enough about her skills and how much they’re going to be missed,” says Filar. “But most of
all, we’re going to miss her personality on the team, in the huddles, on the bench, and in practice.”

“Jen is such a leader on and off the court,” says sophomore Bethany Schott. “She believes in you, she makes
you be your best.”

“Everybody learns something from her,” adds Janna Magette. “I’ve learned so many things from her on the basketball court. But
more importantly, I’ve learned so many characteristics that will carry on well after our playing days.”

“They called her Elmer.”

Coach Filar and assistant coach Jennifer Roos first noticed this point guard extraordinaire at a tournament in Hampton, Va. during
O’Brien’s junior season in 1995.

“It was the little stuff that impressed us the most,” says Roos, who is in her seventh season as a
Wildcat assistant. “She would point to a teammate after they made a shot. She’d sit on the end of the
bench clapping and cheering after she’d been subbed out.”

“What caught our eye was how she held her team together,” Filar says. “You know what her nickname was on
that team? They called her Elmer.”

O’Brien earned the nickname from her AAU coaches, who were fascinated by her ability to glue together the vast and
various talents of that nationally-competitive squad. “That really intrigued us,” says Filar. “But the more we watched her, the more
we understood.”

Mike Anderson

“I could not disappoint them.”

O’Brien played her high school days for Mercy High in Middletown, Conn. Named USA Today’s 1996 Connecticut Player of the
Year, O’Brien guided Mercy to its first-ever state championship.

“Jen is truly spectacular,” wrote Melissa Sebold in the March 1996 edition of Mercy’s Omnibus.

Jill Penney, a teammate of O’Brien’s at Mercy, describes, “Jen was just the best basketball player that Mercy had ever
seen. And she didn’t let it go to her head. She’s a great person on and off the court.”

O’Brien also played for the Connecticut Starters AAU squad, with whom she earned two national medals.

“Basketball has been a momentous part of my life,” she wrote in a piece published in her high school literary
magazine. O’Brien went on to describe the scene of a contest against an Arkansas AAU squad at a national tournament
held in Dallas:

In a medal-round game, her Connecticut squad entered the halftime locker room down by three points. “I remember sitting on
the cold cement floor in the musty locker room and glancing around at the expressions on my teammates’ faces,” she
wrote. “Their reactions gave me a feeling that I will never forget...I knew I had to step up. I could
not disappoint them.”

True to form, she left nobody disappointed. O’Brien rallied her troops in the second half to play to an 87-87
tie at the end of regulation.

Just before the overtime tip-off, she gathered her teammates. “I blurted out a famous quotation that danced in my head,”
she recalls. O’Brien told her teammates: “Intensity isn’t something to fear.” Five minutes later, the Connecticut Starters emerged with not
only a victory, but a national medal. “And that’s why she’s a presence you always want on the court and
in the locker room,” says Filar.

“She loves tradition.”

Not long after that tournament, O’Brien came to Davidson where she joined a team with an established cast of characters.
Senior Monica Winter was a mainstay at the point guard.

Mike Anderson
