THE DAVIDSONIAN

GRC sponsors fashion show

ANN GREGORY
News Editor

Saran wrap, magazine dresses, and a painted-on tuxedo typified the “first annual” Gender Resource Center fashion show in Chambers Gallery last Saturday.

Seniors Dan Wingate and Bill Stoops served as the masters of ceremony for the show, which centered around the theme of “Body Image in the Media.”

Stoops, in a spiked collar, and Wingate, sporting a tuxedo shirt painted on his body, introduced the various acts, beginning with the women of the GRC.

Befitting the theme of the evening, they showcased dresses made entirely from magazine pages. The rest of the show featured dances, a “dominator and dominatrix” routine, a rendition of real-life Barbie and Ken dolls, and several performances involving the stripping of conventional media-inspired ideals.

The Davidson band Writing in the Grey played three songs during the show’s intermission.

This is the first year that the fashion show has been sponsored by the Gender Resource Center. BGLAD, formerly known as FLAG, voted to stop hosting the fashion show because they felt that “the fashion show was offensive to members of FLAG,” says former chair Alexis Boehmler ’02.

“It seemed to perpetuate stereotypes of homosexuality, such as being highly sexual.”

The GRC decided to take on the project with the intention of “continuing the tradition of the fashion show, but with a different spin,” says the show’s coordinator, sophomore Christy Beesley.

“We wanted to open it up more, to a broader possibility of themes and ideas to explore within the show.”

At the same time, however, the GRC wanted to get back to the roots of the fashion show. “Recently it had begun to be seen as a forum for risqué, sexual exhibitionism. We wanted to get it back to what it was to begin with: more of a fashion show,” said Beesley.

One difference in the show this year was that it was conspicuously short, due to, according to Beesley, “lots of last-minute cancellations.”

She also speculates that more people did not sign up because of confusion about the name change.

Regardless of the brevity, Beesley was content with the final result. “The acts we did have were really good, people really seemed to enjoy it. I’m thankful to those who participated as well as to everyone who attended.”

The show raised $475, which will go towards the Clothesline project for female victims of abuse.

Anna Judy

Press RELEASE

Richard Terry, director of auxiliary services, will also help set direction for area businesses as chair of the Lake Norman Chamber of Commerce during the year 2001.

Terry, who has served as treasurer of the organization for the past three years, was appointed chair-elect for the year 2000 recently. He will serve this year as assistant to local realtor and current board chair Charles Knox ’86.

Terry has been the college’s representative to the Chamber for the past four years, and seen its membership double to a current size of 800 members and its budget rise to $300,000 annually. He acknowledges that the college is not a typical chamber business. “Our customer-base is finite, and not local, and we don’t do much for outside groups,” he admitted.

Then he added, “But the college has a significant interest in the way this area develops. Cornelius and Huntersville have almost as big an impact on the quality of our students’ experiences as Davidson does. It’s that shared interest in the quality of life here that gives us a lot in common with other chamber members.”

His involvement has led him to a better appreciation for members of the local business community. He commented, “They all cherish the quality of life here, and aren’t in business strictly for making money. I sense in them a real pride and appreciation for these communities.”

Through its Business After Hours, Power Lunch and Business Works programs it provides an opportunity for members to network and learn about business management. Through its office in Shops on the Green, it also promotes tourism to the area through a web site, a CD, and kiosks at N.C. Welcome Center.

Terry said the chamber has also been active in lobbying for state road funds for this area, and also has lobbied for education bonds. “I don’t expect the chamber to be a social activist, but certain things like education pretty clearly contribute to an attractive community, and we’ll press for them and support them.”

The chamber’s connection with the college will be strengthened on January 15, when its annual banquet will be held for the first time at Vail Commons. Terry expects more than 300 members and guests to attend.

As chair in 2001, Terry will preside at monthly meetings of the 20-member board, determine a plan of action for the year, and set a budget. The duties will require a significant amount of his time, and will require him to become much more well-versed in local politics and issues. He added, “It’s also a commitment to attend ribbon cuttings just about every week!”

Models pose during the GRC fashion show.

Avoid the Exit #28 Traffic...
A short drive to Exit #33 for shipping and copying.

Our networked copiers can copy from your disk

Providing Professional Postal & Business Services

- Shipping Service
  - FedEx, UPS, US Postal
- Packing Service
- Copy Services
  - Color, Staple, Bind
- Office Supplies
- Printing Services
  - Professional Color From Disks
  - Oversized Too!
- Laminating
- Greeting Cards
- Gift Wrap

$9.00 OFF for Davidson Students & Staff only
10 FREE Copies for Davidson Students & Staff only

Go Wildcats!!