_WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2000_

Men’s soccer splits with Wake and Citadel

By Andy LANOHA
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s soccer survived another week of ups and downs. Last Wednesday night they fell 2-0 to the Demon Deacons
of Wake Forest. It was a hard-fought match that Davidson seemed to be controlling, but in the end, the Deacons
came up with the win.

The Cats didn’t lie down for long, however. And, this Sunday they launched an all-out assault on The Citadel, winning
8-0 and scoring 4 goals in the first 11 minutes of play.

Davidson’s loss to Wake Forest was especially heart-breaking because Davidson looked like the better team for most of the game.
Just as they had against South Carolina, the Cats came out strong and controlled the game for the first 45
minutes. The 0-0 tie at half time promised good things for the Cats, who seemed due to finally break the
Deacon’s defense. But, Wake Forest broke that promise very quickly.

Wake came out of the locker room hungrier than Davidson and Jamal Seale put in Wake’s first, and the eventual
game-winner, just one minute into the second half. “We have been talking all year about how we respond to things,”
said senior co-captain Dave Buehler. “How we respond to goals or tough losses. I guess we didn’t respond well to
being tied 0-0 at half.”

Davidson fought hard after going down 1-0. The Cats pushed Wake into their defensive end, pounding the net and sending
everyone forward to get the tying goal. Unfortunately, that goal wouldn’t come. In the 70th minute, Wake Forest was able
to take advantage of Davidson’s aggressive attack. The Deacons counter-attacked and caught Davidson’s last defender in a two-on-one situation. Wake’s
Ben Stafford used the numbers to his advantage and broke away from the defense, scoring the final goal of the
match.

Neither Davidson nor their supporters believed it was over at this point. With 20 minutes left and even until the
last seconds, Davidson continued to fight. Despite creating many chances in this final period and throughout the game, the Cats’
finishing woes kept them off the scoreboard. “We had lots of opportunities,” said Buehler. “If we had scored first or
even finished one of our late chances, the game would have ended a lot differently.”

Similar to the last-minute loss to South Carolina, the hard loss to Wake left the Cats with a lot to
think about. “We were frustrated because we believe in ourselves,” said co-captain Dane Erickson. “We know we have the pieces
to the puzzle to be a nationally competitive team. We go out, play well, and prove we can control the
game against top-ranked teams, yet we still lose.”

The Cats' feelings of frustration didn’t last long into the second game, however... 11 minutes at most. Davidson opened the
game against The Citadel scoring what must be a record-setting four goals in the first 11 minutes of play. Junior
Erik Ozimeck opened the scoring just 50 seconds into the play, scoring a “wicked” diving header. “I whipped in a
cross from the left side,” recalled David Peoples who assisted on the play. “Oz was open about the penalty spot
and headed it right into the lower corner. It was an excellent finish for sure.”

The Cats kept rolling. Just two minutes later Chris Norbet added to the tally off another David Peoples assist. Norbet’s
header took the fight out of The Citadel. But, the Cats had no intention of slowing down. Dane Erickson notched
his first goal of the season and Davidson’s third in the 11th minute of play. Justin Porter swung in a
cross that was flicked on by Chris Norbet. “Norbet put the ball right in my stride. I was about 14
yards out, I just hit low and hard into the left corner.”

Jon Teterick capped the scoring frenzy just 50 seconds later when he beat a couple of Citadel defenders and fired
home an unassisted goal, his sixth on the year. Freshman David Peoples got his fourth point of the game, enough
to earn him highly sought honors as Lake Norman Regional.

Senior Day dominance for field hockey

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

What scoring problem? After the Wildcats had shown aPropensity to dominate field play but lose the scoring battle throughout much
of this season, the squad erupted on Sunday for a 10-3 Senior Day victory over Catawba. Five different Wildcats found
the back of the net as Davidson scored ten goals for the first time since 1980. Senior Lea Jaeger led
the way with five goals—giving her 11 for the season, the most for any NorPac player. Agnes Bateman scored her
ninth goal on Saturday, which puts her just behind Jaeger in second place amongst the seven-team conference. But the headline
shot of the day belonged to senior Lauren Hancock, usually a defender, who took full advantage of her last home
game by scoring her first-ever collegiate goal on a penalty stroke with 22:52 to play. Apparently, Hancock felt quite at
home in her newfound scoring role, as the Severna Park (Md.) High School grad added her second career goal with
one minute to play.

“It was just great,” said Hancock. “To score your first-ever goal on Senior Day, in your last ever home field
hockey game, I couldn’t have asked for anything more.”

“She had been dying to get a goal for three years,” said head coach Jen Halliday. “So we moved her
up to play forward (instead of her usual defensive position) in the second half, and she was so excited to
get that first goal.”

“It was a huge weekend for us,” continued Halliday, whose squad improved to 6-5, pushing them over the .500 mark
for the first time since late August. “We couldn’t ask for a better transition into fall break.”

The Cats will hit the road this weekend, trekking to Pennsylvania where they will play a series of three games
against Ursinus, Rider, and NorPac foe Southwest Missouri State.

Medical Center Player of the Game, when he scored in the 25th minute of play. This ended the Cats' first
half assault and sent them into the locker room leading 5-0.

“We came out really hard because we were frustrated from the Wake game. We were determined to get some offensive
production and we did,” said Peoples.

Davidson finished the game just as they had started, scoring. In the 50th minute, Ozimeck got his second goal of
the game finishing home a deflected shot from Jon Teterick. Thirteen minutes later, Paul Watson got his first goal of
the season when he finished a ball on the back post. Joel Sadler started the play on the right side
whipping in a low cross. Senior Bryan Garrett flicked the ball through a gap to a streaking Watson who finished
it without hesitation. Sadler finished the scoring at the 73-minute mark. He received a ball at his feet inside the
box. With his back to the goal, he turned tightly to his left, beating the defender and finding the open
space at the far post all in one motion.

“It was a really good time for us to blow a team out,” said Erickson. “We were able to ease
a lot of our frustrations at not scoring against Wake.”

Jason Baran said that he knew the Cats were going to win. After the game, the loquacious freshman recalled, “Last
night I had a dream that we beat The Citadel 6-0. When I woke up, I was sad because I
knew we could beat The Citadel by a lot more goals than that.”

Davidson will take this big win into two more must-win Southern Conference matches, Tuesday at home against VMI and Thursday
away against Wofford.

INSIDE...
Women's soccer improves to 3-1 in SoCon
Volleyball picks up big win over Wake
Field Hockey dominates on Senior Day
Response to the G.O.A.
Arrogance or Confidence?

THE WEEK AHEAD

MEN’S SOCCER
Oct. 5 @ Wofford - 7:00
Oct. 8 @ Col. of Charleston 2:00
Oct. 11 @ App. State 7:30

VOLLEYBALL
Oct. 6 App. State 7:00
Oct. 7 East Tennessee St. 5:00
Oct. 10 Charlotte 7:00

WOMEN’S SOCCER
Oct. 6 # Vermont 1:00
Oct. 11 # Harvard 2:00

FIELD HOCKEY
Oct. 7 @ Ursinus College 2:00
Oct. 9 % SW Missouri St. 1:00
Oct. 10 @ Rider 1:00

# - Harvard Tournament; Cambridge, MA
% - in Villanova, PA
