The Davidsonian - Wednesday, November 8, 2000

Berner returns after successful trip to Sydney

By David Moncure
Staff Writer

Imagine representing your country in an athletic event in front of an international audience. Imagine walking into Olympic Stadium in
Sydney in front of 120,000 cheering fans from across the globe. Imagine walking through Sydney with fans clamoring for your
autograph because you just won multiple medals. For Davidson’s Kendra Berner, those seemingly unrealistic dreams became reality. This past month
she represented the United States of America as a swimmer on the national Paralympic team and held her own, winning
four silver medals.

The Paralympics are held about a month after the Olympics in the same city. Therefore, Sydney was in the spotlight
yet again. Berner was born with a congenital deformation of her right hand. While swimming, she uses a training paddle,
which is cut to the size and shape of her left hand. The paddle was approved by the NCAA for
her use at Davidson when she swims intercollegiately.

The USA Disability Championships, the qualifier for the Paralympic Games, was held in June in Indianapolis. Berner qualified to compete
in 7 events at the Championships. The Paralympics are broken down into 10 different physical disability levels, with an S1
being the most disabled and an S10 being the least disabled. Berner qualified to compete in the S10 classification of
the games. Berner commented that other swimmers in her classification “had partial hand amputations, and one had a leg that
was four inches shorter than her other leg.”

After the trials in June, Berner headed to Colorado Springs for the US Paralympic training camp in July. While there,
she was able to meet several of her teammates, and she recalls, “I kept in touch and became friends with
one girl, who was from my home state of Illinois.” Then, in October, it was off to Sydney, where Berner
competed in 5 individual events and 2 relays.

During the first week in Sydney, Berner remembered, “We were in training and welcome events all day.” She continued, “The
Paralympics is huge in Australia. Overall, not many Americans have heard of the Paralympic Games, and, actually, I did not
know much about the opportunity until I went to the trials in June. However, fans were everywhere in Australia. The
Australian Paralympians are big superstars, like national heroes in some cases, and the Australians really follow the games.”

When asked if Sydney hosted the Paralympics as well as they had the Olympics, Berner responded with an emphatic “yes.”
“Advertisements were all over billboards, magazines, and television for the games, and the Australian people were so friendly and supportive
of the athletes.” Berner continued, “So many people wanted autographs, and with as much security as there was for the
athletes, we really felt important.”

After the week of training, the competition began. Berner recalled, “Swimming lasted the entire length of the Paralympics, so every
day we had preliminaries in the morning and finals in the evenings.” Basically, there wasn’t much free time for Berner
to sight-see around the city. She commented that she was able to tour some during the final two days that
she was in Australia, but the majority of her time was taken up by swimming.

Berner commented that the overall excitement, enthusiasm, and thrills surrounding the games really didn’t sink in until she was about
to swim in her first race. “In my first event, the 200 IM, everything really hit me when...”

Davidson SID
Davidsonian Player of the Week — Graham Elmore had 2 critical interceptions in Saturday’s game against Centre College.I stepped up
to get ready for the race and the announcer said, ‘In lane three, representing the United States of America, Kendra
Berner.’ I had only been nervous about swimming a couple of times previously, but I have to admit I felt
the pressure.

She finished fifth in the 200 IM, and then went right back out for her second event, the 400 freestyle,
and won a silver medal with a time of 4:48.96. Berner won her second silver medal in the 100 freestyle
with a time of 1:02.78. She finished only about a second behind the gold medallist, who set a world record
in the event. Berner commented, “The meet was really fast overall. The pool was fast to swim in, and lots
of world records were set every day.”

In her third individual event, the 100 Backstroke, Berner finished fifth, while a teammate set a world record in the
event. Berner won her third individual silver medal on the final day of competition in the 50 freestyle, finishing with
a time of 28.83 seconds, which was only .39 seconds behind the gold medallist who set a new world record.
Berner’s fourth silver medal came in the 400 Freestyle Relay. “Overall, the American team swam well. Lots of records were
set and lots of medals were won by our team.” Berner then commented that the overall atmosphere of the swimming
events was “absolutely amazing.”

“The swimming stadium held 17,500 people, and it was full every day. The people were so loud and into the
events, it made the experience so incredible. Usually, when we swim in the United States, like at Davidson, there are
handfuls of fans in the crowd; however, at the games, the fanfare was amazing.”

The Paralympics were broadcast on national television throughout Australia, and Berner remarked about how amazing it was to turn on
the TV and see herself swimming. “Some of my teammates started telling everyone there that I was on TV about
to swim. It was really cool watching myself swim, and then having the close-up of me after finishing second for
the silver.”

Aside from the actual athletic competition, Berner remarked about how amazing it was to witness some of the paralympians participate
in their events. “There was a wide range of disabilities there, from having only one arm to not having either
leg. However, the people don’t think of themselves as disabled. They have amazing motivation, and they don’t see themselves as
having any physical disadvantage.”

Even though Berner’s Paralympic experience is over, the celebrity status surrounding her success and the American team’s success is not
over yet. After Thanksgiving, Berner, her fellow Paralympians, and the entire US Olympic team will have dinner at the White
House with the President. “I can’t wait to go, it should be a great time,” commented Berner.

Wrapping up her Paralympic experience, Berner recalled a particularly memorable moment. “I’ll never forget the opening ceremonies, marching in the
arena with 120,000 people. I was so amazed not only by the athletes but also by the people. After winning
one of my silver medals, I rode the bus back to the hotel with the coach and only a couple
of other people. When I got off, there were people there with sparklers and taking pictures of me. The people
truly made the event a memorable experience.”

---

Football continues undefeated season
Bo Knows
Women's basketball preview p. 8 & 9
Field Hockey finishes 3rd in NorPac tourney
Volleyball wins again
Men & Women conclude soccer seasons

THE WEEK AHEAD

VOLLEYBALL
Nov. 10 @ App State 7:00
Nov. 11 * Charlotte Stars 3:00

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Nov. 11 @ East Tennessee St. 7:00

WRESTLING
Nov. 12 @ VMI Tournament 11:00

CROSS COUNTRY
Nov. 11 NCAA SE Regional Champ.

SWIMMING
Nov. 11 1:00 @ Columbia

* Exhibition game in Greenville, SC
