Could the Internet combat student apathy? Pundits and politicians are constantly discussing the phenomenon of low voter turnout. Many assert
that voters are, as a rule, apathetic and uninformed. In their defense, there is a common perception that all politicians
are crooks and that elections make no difference anyway. The federal, state, and even local governments seem like distant entities.
What conceivable influence could one vote have on the workings of a faceless state?

By that reasoning, as the size of a community decreases and the visibility of officials increases, voter participation should rise.
Anyone who believes that has obviously never witnessed a student election at Davidson. If we may be permitted to generalize,
the average Davidson student knows and cares nothing about the college’s electoral process. She cannot distinguish between Category I and
Category II elections and has no idea when they are held. He probably does not bother to vote, and if
he does, the responsibilities of the different offices hold no significance for him. After she has cast her vote, the
names of those selected fade out of memory.

Worse yet, this trend worsens the longer students stay at Davidson. The following statistics illustrate this point. They give voter
turnout by class for the two days of our most recent elections. First day: freshmen — 69.9%, sophomores — 37.2%,
juniors — 30.8%. Second day: freshmen — 59.7%, sophomores — 23.7%, juniors — 23.2%. Second day elections for the freshmen
and sophomores were run-offs, while, due to a procedural error, the second day for juniors was the actual election.

These numbers are appalling, but they represent a fairly consistent pattern. The SGA and the Elections Council have given up
hope of raising these results through conventional methods and are looking for new ways to make voting even easier. Their
latest plan envisions an Internet voting system for all student elections. To quote from a proposal submitted by the Elections
Council to ITS, “This system would supply the voting ballot to individual Davidson students and then tally the results, keeping
both names and ballots in separate files, thus ensuring a secret ballot.”

Such a system would achieve several goals. First, it would make the voting process simple and convenient, since most students
could vote from the comfort and privacy of their own rooms. Second, it would save the SGA and the Honor
Council countless man-hours of sitting at tables, hoping in vain for voters to wander by. Finally, Internet voting would provide
instant and accurate results with virtually no possibility of human error. Instead of having to tally the votes by hand
from computer printouts, the Election Council could simply check over a few figures and announce the winners.

Unfortunately, this plan made it no farther than the ITS bureaucracy. Despite an SGA resolution and frequent entreaties from the
Elections Council, the Banner Team Leaders have designated Internet voting a non-priority. While we understand that ITS is currently understaffed
and must pick and choose from among countless programming requests, we fail to see why they consider student elections non-essential.

We freely admit that those on the ITS staff are experts, and we are not equipped to challenge their judgment
on technical matters. However, choice of priorities is an administrative decision and should reflect this school’s priorities, including a responsible
student government and an active student body. Internet voting would certainly promote both these interests.

Should the ITS staff relent and agree to institute Internet voting, that would only be one step towards curing Davidson’s
electoral apathy. The Elections Council in particular and the SGA Senate in general could do a better job publicizing the
elections and educating the student body. Moreover, if students themselves took an interest in their elections, they would see immediate
results. An email to a representative or a letter to the administration would go a long way towards improving the
electoral process. But, chances are, if you are a student, you don’t care anyway.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck, Editors-in-chief
The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
Tia Cook
Peter Clark
David Johnston
Amar Arivig
Matt Garfield
Peter Clark
David Johns

Davidson, NC

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
Erin Berry

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Vermont exemplifies the strengths of American system Founders envisioned protection from “tyranny of majority” - I am writing in response
to Khoury Ashooh’s essay entitled“Whither Vermont, whither the United States?” (The Davidsonian, October 18). I agree with Mr. Ashooh that
judges should not “legislate” by misinterpreting the law in order to promote their own agendas. Nevertheless, I believe that the
unchecked popular rule he favors violates key American constitutional principles. While this country’s founders regarded the people’s will as central
to free republican government, they also realized that popular majorities could act tyrannically at times. They therefore sought to place
checks, although not absolute checks, on popular rule. One of those checks lies in representative government itself. James Madison, the
“father” of the Constitution, hoped that representative government in a large, diverse republic would “refine and enlarge the public views,
by passing them through the medium of a chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true interest
of their country, and whose patriotism and love of justice will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or
partial considerations.” (The Federalist, #10). Perhaps Vermont’s legislature exemplified such government when it promoted statewide funding for school districts and
when it sanctioned gay and lesbian civil unions. In any case, as Mr. Ashooh suggests, the representative system offers a
very weak check on popular rule since legislators may easily be voted out of office.

Dr. J. Russell Snapp, Associate Professor of History

Civil unions suffer little popular disapproval

In his article about civil unions and the state of Vermont, Khoury Ashooh misrepresents the “will of the people” of
Vermont. He claims that there is a widespread grassroots movement against civil unions, but he skews the facts. He claims
that 5 out of 10 Republicans were defeated in their primaries because they voted for civil unions. But a review
of the GLAD website (www.glad.org) reveals that Mr. Ashooh didn’t get all the facts straight. In fact, only 9 Republicans
were targeted and of those 5 who lost nominations, one will be running as a Democrat and one will be
running as an independent. All 4 Democrats targeted retained their nomination, and one Democrat who voted against civil unions lost
his nomination. This is far from a blaring rejection of civil unions by the public in Vermont, and Republican primaries
have never been havens for the rights of sexual minorities. The real test will come in the upcoming elections on
whether the public is truly opposed to civil unions. What an analysis of the facts shows is that Mr. Ashooh
is angered by a development that he dislikes (civil unions) and desires to perpetuate repression of sexual minorities by an
intolerant majority. There is no legitimate reason to oppose civil unions for gays and lesbians and Mr. Ashooh presents none.
The institution of civil unions acknowledges that gays and lesbians live together in normal, healthy monogamous relationships and they want
that to be recognized by the general public. We should be proud that the legislators in Vermont are progressive enough
to fight against the forces of bigotry. Only by standing up to homophobia can mindsets be changed. We fear the
day when the very government entrusted with protecting the rights of all citizens gives in to Mr. Ashooh’s “will of
the people.”

Josh Craft ’04
Alex Massengale ’04
