THE Davidsonian News

Abundance of jobs facing graduates

SCRANTON, Pa. (AP) — Life is pretty good these days for Phil Goodwin and Tom White. The two University of
Scranton seniors are winding up their college careers and preparing to enter the professional workforce. Like many of their classmates,
the main issue for them hasn’t been: “Will I find a job?” It’s been more like: “What job will I
take?”

The labor shortage created by the nation’s strong economy and low unemployment rate has not only benefited employees currently in
the workforce, it’s also helping college students like Mr. Goodwin and Mr. White who are seeking to launch their professional
careers.

Goodwin, a marketing major from Horsham, near Philadelphia, said he has already received a sales offer from a national financial
services firm and expects to get another one shortly. That’s fine, he says, but he may wait to accept a
position more to his liking. “I don’t want to take the first thing that comes my way,” says the 21-year-old
senior. “I want to find the thing I want to do in the location I want, which is in the
Philadelphia area.”

White is a 33-year-old Clarks Summit resident who was in the Army before going to college. He said his goal
all along has been to get a job with one of the nation’s “big five” accounting firms. Last December, he
did just that, accepting an offer from PricewaterhouseCoopers. When he graduates, he’ll head to Stamford, Conn. to take a job
with the firm for an annual salary of about $40,000. “I got offers from government agencies in Boston and Philly,
but I wanted the big five. That was my goal,” he said.

Paul Perhach, the university’s director of career development and placement, and Cheryl Collarini, the school’s recruiting coordinator, each say the
last few years have been boon times for college graduates. “I’ve seen the cycles. I saw the mid-80s when it
was a great market. This is as good or better than the mid-80’s market,” said Perhach, who has been at
the university since 1982.

Students who have degrees in any type of technical field like computer science or engineering are in great demand. But,
says Perhach, those with other majors aren’t having much trouble either. “It’s across the board. It’s accounting, business, nursing, even
education,” he said.

In a recent study, the university surveyed 827 members of the class of 1999 who received undergraduate degrees and 220
who received graduate degrees. Of the 72 percent who responded, Perhach said 99.5 percent reported they were either working or
in graduate school full-time. “The average salary was $30,000,” he said. “The range could go down in the low 20s
and maybe the high teens in some areas (like human service professions). I’ve also seen $50,000 and $55,000 per year
for computer science people and nurses in New York and Philadelphia,” he said.

The job market is so competitive, says Collarini, that many companies are actually beginning to recruit juniors as well as
seniors. That’s why the university recently sponsored a “Junior Jump Start” program, designed to encourage juniors to meet with placement
officials to discuss things like resume preparation and internship possibilities. “Some of the bigger companies are actually hiring students in
their junior year. When students are coming back for their senior year, they already have a job offer,” she said.

Career placement officials at Marywood University say the strong economy is definitely benefiting students as the number of companies recruiting
on campus continues to increase. “They (companies) have so many positions available, they are looking for the best and the
brightest people to fill them,” said recruiting coordinator Roseann Martinetti.

Lisa Morgen-Barrientos, a spokeswoman for Manpower, a national placement firm based in Milwaukee, Wisc., agrees this is a good time
to be graduating from college, no matter what major. “If someone is an English major but has basic computer skills
along with strong ‘soft skills’ such as the ability to work in a team environment and work under deadline pressure,
they can be valuable to companies in various industries,” she said. Morgen-Barrientos said telecommunication and pharmaceutical industries are two of
the most rapidly growing sectors.Expanding fields. Locally, many firms are also planning on hiring new graduates. Frank Merkel, a partner
in the Dunmore accounting firm McGrail, Merkel, Quinn and Associates, said accounting firms all across the country are competing for
the best talent as they try to expand into areas like consulting and financial services. One trend, he said, is
to recruit college juniors as interns and then hire them after their senior year. “More employers are finding students who
are juniors and then offering them jobs as seniors,” he said, noting his 20-member firm hires one or two new
graduates each year. That’s good news for both.

“(The mood on campus) is pretty optimistic. I think everyone pretty much feels they’re not going to be worried about
finding jobs eventually,” said University of Scranton junior Rebekah Ferguson.

Princeton to increase enrollment by 500

PRINCETON, N.J. (AP) — Princeton University on Saturday agreed to boost student enrollment by 500, the first significant increase in
the size of the student body since women were admitted in 1969. The university's Board of Trustees formally approved the
increase to individual classes by 125 students, a 10 percent rise, over the next seven years. They cited the school’s
expanded curriculum, a need to accommodate more international students, and a desire to increase student participation in non-sports activities.

While the plan will make it easier to be accepted to the university, applicants will still have their work cut
out for them. Last week, Princeton offered admission to 12.2 percent of applicants for the class of 2004. University spokesman
Justin Harmon said the plan would increase the number of students involved in arts and academic programs at Princeton, where
29 percent of students are on varsity teams and 23 percent play club and intramural sports.

“Relative to our competitors, we have a fairly small class, and that will still be the case as it has
been one of the hallmarks of the Princeton experience,” Harmon said. “One disadvantage to a relatively small class size is
that when you are fielding as many athletic teams as we are, you are in some sense constraining the admissions
process.” International applicants will be among those to benefit from the enrollment increase, Harmon said.

The plan calls for the construction of additional dormitories, including a sixth residential college. Fundraising for the construction is already
underway, although Harmon said the cost has not been determined. Princeton will not increase the size of the faculty, which
has grown 1 percent a year for the past 25 years. Instead, the plan calls for an increase in the
number of graduate students, the size of which will be determined by different departments.

Dean of Admissions Fred Hargadon was not available for comment. In the past, he has said that his office frequently
denies admission to qualified students and that increasing the size of the student body would not adversely affect the quality
of students. There are currently 4,600 undergraduates at Princeton, 1,150 per class.

An appeal to the Class of 2000

The Class of 2000 Senior Class Gift is setting a school record, but they are striving to blow it out
of the water. With Katie Crane and Drew Williams as co-chairs, the senior class has secured 65% paid participation and
over $8,000 in gifts. This alone is worth a standing ovation, but that is not the end of the story.

President Bobby Vagt pledged $5,000 of his own money if the senior class received 75% paid participation. The class is
only 39 people away from reaching that goal. With only 33 days left until graduation, the crunch is on. The
purpose of the Senior Class Gift program is not to raise a ton of money, but to educate students, especially
seniors, about the importance of giving back to Davidson. Without the support of her alumni, Davidson would not be the
college that each person here has grown to love.

This letter is an appeal to those members of the Class of 2000 who have yet to pay on their
pledge or participate in their Senior Class Gift. Don’t miss out on an opportunity not only to be part of
history, but also an opportunity to show your appreciation for all that this school has given each of you. Thank
you!

Sincerely,
Caroline Bynum
Assistant Director of The Annual Fund

A special thanks to the 260 seniors who have contributed to the Senior Class Gift! If you have questions or
concerns, please direct them to Caroline Bynum at 892-2113.

“There are three things that no one can do to the entire satisfaction of someone else: make love, poke the
fire, and run a newspaper.” — WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE, 1917

Join The Davidsonian. Fall Editorial positions available. Contact Alison Kalett or Mike Anderson for more information.
