It Depends

How are you enjoying your iced tea, Mr. Al Gore opened his mouth again. The vice president (and I stress vice) is doing this more and more nowadays. Like any politician, Al wants your vote. But unlike every politician, it appears that Al Gore will say or do just about anything in his quest to win it, without regard for the truth. Lies flow freely from Al Gore’s mouth. Lies also come in the form of policy reversals, of which Al has had many over his long career inside the Beltway. Let’s start there.

“Inside the Beltway.” Al Gore would have you believe that he is a Washington outsider, a regular guy who knows Americans. After all, his campaign headquarters are all the way in Nashville, Tennessee, and one can’t get more “average-America” than that. But the truth is that Al Gore moved his campaign headquarters to Nashville after advisers told him that the image of a Washington insider is not a favorable one. In Al’s mind, a simple move to Tennessee erases, well, his whole life.

Al Gore is an insider. His father was a Senator during Al’s childhood. Al says he grew up on a farm in Carthage, Tennessee. Al really grew up living in the Fairfax Hotel in D.C., and he graduated from St. Albans National Cathedral School, also in D.C. But Al likes to pick and choose when it’s good to be an insider. He’d have you believe that Governor Bush has no experience. He’s partially right; Bush has never worked in an elected position inside the Beltway. But while he claims being an outsider, like Bush, is bad, Al himself tries to hide from his own Washington experience. So who’s the insider now?

Many politicians lie. Bill Clinton does it a lot. But Bill seems only to lie when he has to. Not that this is any more admirable, but Al lies even when he doesn’t have to. Al lies when they can be easily uncovered. Al lies habitually and pathologically.

Take an issue uncovered this past week. In August, Al Gore addressed a group of seniors in Florida about prescription drug benefits. In his speech, he claimed that both his mother-in-law and his dog take the same prescription for arthritis, but that his mother-in-law pays $108 per month while it only costs $38 for his dog. This story was concocted in its entirety, in the name of getting votes from seniors. According to Gore’s campaign, he does not even know whether his mother-in-law actually takes the drug in question, he does not really know what she pays if she does, he doesn’t know how much he actually pays for his dog’s medicine, he compared wholesale prices to retail prices, he did not take dosages into consideration, and he used figures from a Democratic study on the issue. Gore’s argument was totally hypothetical. It’s just one example of many.

Another lie that came out last week is that Gore claims to have been sung to bed in his youth by his mother with the lullaby “Look for the Union Label.” He threw out this story at a Tennessee Teamsters meeting. The song is a union jingle, and Al Gore never fell asleep to it in his youth because it was written in 1975, when he was 27. This time, the Teamsters fell victim to Gore’s need to lie.

Gore also lies when he rails against Big Oil. He claims to be the man of the people, not the powerful. Big Oil is for men like George W. Bush and Dick Cheney, not Al Gore. Oops! Al Gore forgot the facts: his family has stock in Occidental Petroleum valued between $500,000 and $1 million. In fact, last week a group of fifty students protested Gore’s ties to the oil industry in a

Planes, Trains, and Automobiles

Where have all the good parking spaces gone? I noticed the extreme lack of available parking when I returned to campus at one o’clock the other morning. I circled through Belk, passed through West, meandered around the court, turned around, and in the end, settled on Satellite (the lot somewhere near Egypt, not the Dave Matthews song) all the time asking myself: why is there so little parking?

Frankly, I can’t figure it out. I mean there are a whole lot of spaces. Granted, the Davidson town cops won't let us park on Main Street anymore, but there still should be ample parking for the student body in the designated parking areas, at the designated times, in between the designated white lines.

Well, for starters, no one parks in between the white lines. If The Princeton Review were to rank schools on the students’ parking abilities, Davidson would most likely wind up somewhere near the bottom along with Northwest Louisiana State, where the “parking lot” is actually just a mud hole full of old pick-up trucks. And even those students could probably do a better job of parking in between the white-lined mud ditches.

While the inability of Davidson students to fit a rectangular car/SUV into a rectangular space explains why all the parking lots look like they have angled parking when in actuality they do not, it does not explain why my walk to the car seems to be on par with a trek through the Kalahari. I feel like I should charter a plane flight to save my fellow colleagues stuck out there. However, I don’t think that the chartered plane would work since I am not sure if anyone would sign up. You see, I have realized something else. No one leaves campus. Everyone has a car on campus (I know this because they are all taking up spaces that are rightfully mine), but no one goes anywhere. Davidson lets freshmen bring cars to campus because it is so isolated, yet no one takes advantage of it. In fact, I bet that freshmen are the problem. Those little punks are taking up all the good spaces. It must be, because last year they weren’t here and I didn’t have nearly as much trouble getting a parking space for the car that I took to campus as a freshman... Never mind...

Frankly, the only time most people move their cars is when they are trying to get a better space. I ask you, what is the point of having a good parking space if you never take advantage of it? The whole purpose behinda “good” parking space is that you do not have a long walk to the car. However, if the car is never used, then the existence of the “good spot” becomes irrelevant. Not to worry, I have a solution for this problem. Everyone should just give up his or her spot to me. Note: Andrew hopes that everyone had fun at the Train concert (sorry, that completes the title...). Furthermore, he believes that all of the parking problems would be solved if everyone just “got along.” 

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Demonstration at the Iowa Democratic Party headquarters. Many protesting students were from Grinnell College, a school not unlike Davidson. Al Gore’s people vs. powerful populist jingle sounds good, that is, unless you know the facts. Al Gore lives a life of political convenience. When it’s convenient, Gore “live[s] on a farm...[he has] his heart in [his] own farm” (12/23/99). If not, he lives in D.C. When it’s convenient, Gore is “a home-builder” because “to build this country is a great thing” (11/30/99). According to a contractor on the projects in question, Gore actually “came by a time or two, but not too often.” When it’s convenient, Gore claims to have “always, always, always” supported pro-choice (2/20/00). But Gore voted for the Hyde Amendment in 1977, which states that abortion “takes the life of an unborn child who is a living human being” and that no one has a Constitutional right to abortion. When it’s convenient, Gore mocks Bush for csabultig ils fadartocal ae. When it’s not, Gore hides from the facts that his father was a Senator and that his election would proliferate a family political dynasty, too. Gore switched positions last week on opening the strategic oil reserve. He was against opening it last February, but now it’s politically convenient, and Bill Clinton has reacted to Gore’s “wish” by letting the oil flow in an irresponsible move aimed at covering up Clinton’s lack of an energy policy. There’s more. Gore invented the Internet. He discovered Love Canal. He never grew tobacco on his farm. He faced combat in Vietnam. He didn’t know the Buddhist temple event was a fundraiser because he had too much iced tea during the meeting in which it was discussed and he was constantly going to the bathroom. He was “a brilliant student,” according to a 1988 campaign video. But Al Gore actually dropped out of Vanderbilt Law School and he failed out of Vanderbilt Divinity School. And the list of “Goreisms” goes on and on and on. Gore cannot be allowed to continue these lies and filth for four more years. America should send this lying bag of hot air back to “his boyhood farm” in Carthage, Tennessee, to build houses, grow tobacco, and bring an end to the internal combustion engine.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03

Waiting to die: a message from West Timor

What would you do if there were a strong chance that you wouldn’t live to see another day? If you were barricaded in an office, expecting a band of thugs to descend upon you, how would you pass the time? In this electronic age, some write e-mail. At least, this is what Carlos Caseres, an employee of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR), did just before he was brutally murdered along with two other UNHCR staff in Atambua, West Timor. Roughly a year ago, the citizens of East Timor gained independence from Indonesia following a brutal conflict that ceased with an Australian-led UN intervention. While its peacekeeping days are over, the UN still has a fairly large presence on the island for other duties such as development and refugee repatriation. Atambua suddenly shut down when news spread that trucks and buses full of militias were coming from Betun (my former home) to Atambua. The town suddenly deserted and all the shops were boarded up in a matter of minutes. Traffic disappeared and the streets are strangely and ominously quiet. I’m glad that a couple of weeks ago we bought rolls and rolls of barbed wire. I was in the office when the news came out that a wave of violence would soon pound Atambua. We sent most of the staff home, rushing to safety. I just heard someone on the radio saying that they are praying for us in the office. The militias are on the way, and I am sure they will do their best to demolish this office. Unfortunately, violence still plagues the island and is now spreading to West Timor as well. West Timor is still part of Indonesia. On September 6th, militias burned and killed 3 UNHCR staff. One of them, however, managed to send an e-mail a few hours before the incident. UNHCR chief, Sadago Ogata, subsequently read out this email at the UN Security Council the following day. I received this email after it had been forwarded several times. It came to me with the disclaimer that it “should be read by as many people as possible.” So here it is.

“From: Carlos Caseres
Date: 6 Sept. 2000, 6:05 a.m.
Subject: Are you still there? - Reply

My next post needs to be in a tropical island without jungle fever and mad warriors. At this very moment, we are barricaded in the office. A militia leader was murdered last night - he was decapitated and had his heart and penis cut out. Segments of Timorese society must be some of the most violent and gory people anywhere on Earth. The man killed was the head of one of the most notorious and criminal militia groups of East Timor. These guys act without thinking and can kill a human as easily (and painlessly) as I kill mosquitos in my room. You should see this office. Plywood on the windows, staff peering out through openings in the curtains hastily installed a few minutes ago. We are waiting for this enemy, we sit here like bait, unarmed, waiting for the wave to hit. I am glad to be leaving this island for three weeks. I just hope I will be able to leave tomorrow. As I wait for the militias to do their business, I will draft the agenda for tomorrow's meeting on Kupang. The purpose of the meeting: to discuss how we are to proceed with this operation.

Carlos”

Roshan Paul ‘02