By Liz NEIHEISEL
Career Services Intern

Bobby Pittenger ‘02 had planned to spend last summer at a bank job. Those plans changed, though, when Pittenger got
a job with Charlotte’s Fox 18 News.

“None of the bank jobs panned out. So I started calling around. Fox was the first place I called, and
they just happened to have an opening,” said Pittenger.

Pittenger, who had previous but unrelated experience at a TV station, had his choice of departments and ultimately chose news.

“I got over there at an exciting time,” he said. “Fox had just started up their news channel in January.
They were over all the bumps of the beginning stages but were still growing.”

Pittenger spent Sunday through Thursday, from 2 until 10 p.m. at this paid internship. “I had the absolute time of
my life,” he said.

Pittenger started off covering basic stories. “They let the interns cover stories, but nothing serious,” he said. “These are stories
about third-graders learning how to brush their teeth, a story I actually covered. The first few stories were so frustrating,
because writing for a newscast was so different from writing other stories. Eventually, though — within a week or so
— I learned some tricks of the trade. By the second week, I was writing five to eight stories a
day, sometimes more.”

Pittenger really got excited about the job after his first big story. “That story was probably the luckiest thing that
ever happened to me. There was a house fire in Davidson and all the news reporters were gone on other
stories. I heard somebody mention Davidson, and I said, ‘I’m from Davidson. I'll go to that.’ It was just a
cameraman and me. It ended up being the biggest house fire in Davidson in twenty years.”

“It was miraculous that no other reporters were around,” said Pittenger. “They finally got to the point where they would
just give me directions and I would go alone and cover a story.”

Pittenger’s hard work was not without notice, either. “The news manager, Ken White, pulled me aside and said, ‘I don’t
know how many journalism classes you’ve had, if any, but you are a better writer than most of the people
in this room.’ When he said that, the first thing that came to my mind was Dr. Nelson, and how
critical he always was with my writing. I am so thankful for that now.”

“I think any Davidson student has the skills,” said Pittenger. “Professors do a whole lot to make sure you can
write. And those writing skills are key almost everywhere.”

The job, though very exciting, was also very stressful. “Everything is so fast-paced that nobody has time to really sit
down and show you,” said Pittenger. “So you pick up things quick. That’s definitely the best way to learn.”

The writing skills weren’t the only skills developed on this job. “Now I know how to use the big high-tech
video cameras,” said Pittenger. “Even edit.”

“I also learned about ethics,” said Pittenger. “For instance, I had to interview this police officer about his cancer. You
have to watch yourself. Reporters have a reputation of being sharks. So you have to remember you’re interviewing another person,
not a thing.”

Pittenger has considered law school after graduation, but has not ruled out journalism. He is trying on the role of
journalist again this semester, as a student in Dr. Paul Miller’s journalism course. “I’m taking everything I learned this summer
and am applying that to the class.” For a change, a job that prepared a student for the classroom, and
not vice versa.

Guster: Lost and Gone Forever strikes familiar chord
By Tuomas CULLEN
Staff Writer

Sometimes tried and true formulas render the best results. Guster blends a completely subdued tone with the peaceful strum of
the guitar on almost every song. On their latest effort, Lost and Gone Forever, the band brings a catalogue of
songs that are enjoyable yet somewhat repetitive.

The members of Guster were all students at Tufts University, where they perfected their smooth sound. Ryan Miller does vocals
and guitar, Adam Gardner combines vocals, guitar, and bass, while Brian Rosenworcel is the drummer and coolest bandmate. Rosenworcel is
referred to in the liner notes as the “legendary conguero.” And that he is. He hits the drums with reckless
abandon for his personal well-being and conveys his emotion directly into his music.

If you do not like the first song of the record, “What You Wish For,” there is no hope for
you to enjoy this album. The song defines Guster and their mellow, experienced tone while utilizing thin vocal harmonies that
allow the music to flow. With Guster, there is never much effort in listening. The music progresses as you do
anything, whether it be homework or Dreamcast.

The gem of the album is entitled “Fa Fa” and deals with the issue of questioning the past and present.
The drums thump as the bass and guitar play with each other like little kids fighting for attention. Due to
its relative simplicity, the line that seems to hit home the most is that of “...never be the same again.”

The beauty of Guster is that their music is so easy to relate to, especially for people of the college
age. They sing of issues which are of daily relevance, and that makes them much more relaxing. The confessional “I
Spy” ranks among the best songs of the record due to the images created by the lyrics that let you
into the band’s lives and experiences. Yet, the band is not incapable of disappointment, asevidenced by “All The Way Up
to Heaven.” The falsetto of Miller opens the song, and with it comes some promise. Such positive thoughts are immediately
erased when the whistling and clapping enter with a newly found sense of choppiness in the music. Feel free to
skip this one entirely. “Two Points For Honesty” shows Guster at their finest and simplest. The strings lend body to
the already beautiful sound as the bass hurries the song along. Guster is a band that has struck a chord
with their type of music. Their only problem is that they refuse to stop striking that chord. Almost every song
on the record could easily be the song in front of or behind it. However, the music does have its
place and that place should be in your musical collection.

Ready to party this weekend? PCC president offers tips
BY CHAD PHILLIPS, PCC President

This Friday evening marks the official beginning of the social year at Davidson. As always, expectations surrounding First Night Down
will be high. Fraternities and eating houses will blow the better part of their budgets on drinks and entertainment. Freshmen
will get their first glimpse of the Patterson Court scene. In order to give some shape to all of the
speculation surrounding this coming weekend, the Patterson Court Council would like to inform partiers, both old and new, about what
they should and should not expect.

First and foremost, students should anticipate not just one night but a whole weekend of entertainment. Not only will there
be parties on Friday night, there will also be parties on the court on Saturday night.

Student Travel Services
Europe, Florida
1-800-648-4849
SPRINGBREAK 2001
America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas,
www.gospringbreak.com

Friday night features three bands students ought to check out. Davidson’s own Cast Iron Filter will be performing at Sig
Ep, SAE is hosting the Frogmores, and the Po-Boys will be playing at KA. In addition, the Co-ed eating houses
are co-sponsoring a party with WALT called “Jamacin’ Me Crazy.” On the following night, Kappa Sig will play host to
the rap group Global Desperados, and Phi Delt will be performing at KA.

Before the late night parties get started on Saturday, the Union Board and Patterson Court are co-sponsoring an event called
Fall Fest. Grand Torino will be playing behind the BSC from 6-8 p.m. In addition, students can enjoy a free
catered dinner on the back patio of the Commons.

Second, there are some important policy changes that all students should be aware of if they want to get into
the parties on the Court. Each student must have a PCC sticker on the back of his or her Cat
Card. There will be an IDer at the door of each house ensuring that everyone does have a sticker. Freshmen
can obtain these stickers from their hall counselors. Members of houses can get these stickers from their respective presidents. Independents
can purchase these stickers for $15 at RLO during regular office hours and at the Outpost during its operating hours.

Perceptive readers may notice that the sticker price has increased by $5 from last year. Recently the public safety officials
increased their rates to monitor a party by $5/hour. This increase in rates is the main factor necessitating Patterson Court’s
decision to raise its rates for their stickers. The PCC in no way intends to discourage independents from attending Court
functions. According to SGA President Dane Erickson, “The independents have the best deal on campus. They get access to entertainment
and drinks for only $15.”

He said, She said... Two reviews of Nurse Betty
By Derek Lou, Staff Writer

Nurse Betty is an interesting mix of graphic violence, cynicism, lighthearted humor, the Grand Canyon, a pair of hit men,
a soap star, and a little ray of sunshine named Betty. At many times, it is intriguing, heartfelt, and funny.
It wants to be a goodhearted, black comedy, if such a thing exists. The movie also has some of the
year’s very best performances. Yet however thought-provoking and brilliantly acted the movie may be, Nurse Betty as a whole fails.

The movie opens in a small Kansas town where Betty, played perfectly by Renee Zellweger, works as a waitress. Her
husband is Del (Aaron Eckhart), the local drug-dealing, chauvinistic, two-timing, used car salesman with a mullet. It seems Del hasn’t
been honest, and two hit men, Charlie (Morgan Freeman) and Wesley (Chris Rock), are sent to take care of him.
This is where Nurse Betty, directed by Neil LaBute, makes its worst mistake.

See opposite page

By Jen Joslin, Staff Writer

What is better: the fantasy or the reality? Perhaps more crucially, in Betty’s case, is there a difference? The title
character from Nurse Betty, played by Renee Zellweger, is a small-town waitress from Kansas, who finds herself trapped in a
world of nothing but coffee and monotony. The only engaging aspect of her life focuses on the lives of other
people. She watches every single episode of “A Reason to Love,” a soap opera that revolves around Dr. David Ravell,
portrayed by Greg Kinnear, a suave doctor who is sensitive, gentle, and oh-so-charming. Oh...did I forget to mention that he
is able to perform aortal surgery without any sleep?

When Betty witnesses a horrific act of violence, she becomes fixated on Dr. David and decides to go to LA
to find him. As Betty’s mission is unfolding, Charlie and Wesley, depicted by Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock, are just
beginning their hunt. They are hot on Betty’s trail as she treks her way across the Western United States. What
follows this setup is a comedic, yet dark, adventure into the realm of fantasy and reality.

See opposite page
