Last week extremist liberalism reared its ugly head yet again, this time manifesting itself in the form of tasteless billboards.
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PeTA) has erected billboards in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. The advertisements feature the face
of New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani with a milk mustache, juxtaposed with the phrase “Got Prostate Cancer?” Under the
phrase appears the caption “Drinking milk contributes to prostate cancer.” To an average human being, this image is simply insensitive,
simply cruel, and simply detestable. This form of advertising ought to be decried and deplored by all. Certainly, this billboard
is evidence that PeTA will stop at no limits in its quest to alarm and to offend. Mayor Giuliani is
only the latest figure to be targeted by this extremist group. Countless other citizens are targeted when they walk out
of a fur shop or when they buy hamburgers. Most disturbing, however, is that now all you have to do
to be targeted as an animal hater by PeTA is to develop a common form of cancer. PeTA has satiated
the public with their message of compassion towards animals, but their actions tell a different story. Evidently, the group likes
to emphasize “ethical” in its name, as inferred from the italicized “e” in its acronym. Yet how is plastering the
face of an innocent man stricken with an innocent illness at all ethical? PeTA is hypocritical and not at all
compassionate or ethical when it comes to humans. This extremist group is driven not by a desire to help animals,
but rather by its need for self-promotion. The Mayor’s reaction to the billboards was tasteful and direct. “It’s tasteless and
inappropriate to exploit my illness and also...

This past June, while attending an international college chaplains’ conference in Vancouver, I spent several hours talking with a United
Church of Canada minister named Ken. Ken’s story as a middle-aged gay man and minister resonated with questions that have
been on my mind. Homosexuality and Christianity: how do they fit together? What is it like to be gay and
Christian? Throughout the summer, at church conventions of Presbyterians, Episcopalians, and Methodists (among others), the issues of ordaining gays and
lesbians and of blessing homosexual unions have been hotly debated. In every case, both ordination and blessing were denied, though
often by narrow margins. At each convention, gay and lesbian Christians, and their straight supporters, engaged in peaceful protest and
civil disobedience to bring attention to their understanding of the Gospel's message on this issue. I am astounded by the
courage and perseverance of such people and of someone like Ken. Growing up as a Catholic, Ken felt called to
serve God in the priesthood. During his seminary training, he accepted himself as gay — but only after years of
struggle, after submitting himself to electric shock therapy and extensive counseling. When he came out to friends and family, the
response was generally negative. One friend mailed Ken some money he owed him and told Ken never to contact him
again. Ken’s father at first would have nothing to do with him. Ken left seminary, went into acting, and spent
the next eight years advocating the full inclusion of self-affirming gays in the Catholic Church — years that ended in
frustration. He eventually left the church altogether, though he didn’t deny his faith in the loving God he worshiped and
sought to serve. Two years later, a friend invited Ken to attend the United Church of Canada. He found a
new church home where he could be an openly gay Christian. Encouraged once again to follow his call to ministry,
Ken completed his studies and settled into a full-time pastorate in a church of deaf people. As missionary funds declined,
his hours were reduced to half-time, and he added to his work a part-time campus ministry. Throughout the past twenty-one
years, Ken has been in a committed relationship with his partner, John. Every five years they publicly renew before God
their vow...of commitment to each other. John’s mother attended that ceremony for the first time on their fifteenth anniversary, much
to Ken’s delight. I hope for the day that more Christian churches fully accept men and women like Ken. I
would like to have openly gay and lesbian clergy colleagues and to represent the church in blessing homosexual unions. I
have always respected my brothers and sisters in Christ who, because of their interpretation of scripture, believe that all homosexual
relationships are wrong, and who speak that conviction in a spirit of kindness. I simply disagree with them.

As I read the broad message of the Bible and look at the seven passages that mention same-gender sex, I
don’t hear a blanket condemnation of homosexuality. I do hear a resounding message of God’s great love for all of
creation. I do hear a call regarding sexuality. I’m convinced that righteousness doesn’t have to do with the fact of
one’s sexual orientation, with being straight or gay. Rather, it has to do with how one lives out one’s sexuality.
Clearly, all Christians are called to do so in relationships characterized by commitment, fidelity, mutuality, and loving kindness.

I also hear a call in scripture for us to work towards communities characterized by justice, especially on behalf of
the poor and the marginalized. I think my gay and lesbian brothers and sisters are often marginalized in the Church.
I hope for the day that the words “gay” and “Christian” will not sound like an odd pairing. I seek
the time when gays and lesbians, as members of the kingdom of God, will be able to focus less on
concerns over their sexual orientation and more on the quality of their discipleship to Jesus.

Rev. Rob Spach
Chaplain, Davidson College

horrible for human health, catastrophic for the environment, and a living nightmare for these cows and their veal calf babies.”
That’s right, loyal readers, your mothers are wrong. Milk is “horrible for human health” (somebody taught this guy alliteration), and
the way our legal system is going, if you develop prostate cancer, you’ll probably soon be able to sue your
mother for advising you to drink milk in your youth. That is, if Mr. Friedrich and PeTA are allowed to
proceed with their campaign. Just think, the cows could be co-plaintiffs with you! And any other lactating creature as well!
How unthinkable is this scenario? It’s about as unthinkable as any human using another’s illness for personal gain. Yet, thanks
to PeTA, it turns out that this is not so unthinkable after all.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03
The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @
Exegoy Er Lafeur Bbrior fy BUSIN & Manat“ aron Houck chiar, Vinson ' Boa GBvington eee “~ . Lim.Céok si
Pett C

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html
