@ ALEN DA LU: DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2000
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 4

Davidson strives for gender equity

The recently published gender equity report examined the current status of gender equity among Davidson’s faculty and staff while also recommending specific areas for improvement.

By ALISON KALETT
Editor Emeritus

Last fall, female faculty members gathered to express long-standing concerns regarding issues of gender equity at Davidson. The result - an in-depth examination of Davidson’s policies and practices as they pertain to gender equity among faculty and staff. The working group, composed of five faculty and three staff members, concluded that Davidson has sound written policies concerning gender equity, yet education about and implementation of the policies need improvement.

“We found we have good policies,” affirmed Leslie Marsicano, Associate Dean of Students and working group member. “Our policies are just not as well known or consistently applied as they should be.”

“Davidson has solid policies,” concurred history professor and working group member Vivien Dietz. “The problems are not pervasive, yet a gap sometimes exists between the policies and peoples’ comfort in implementing them.”

The group, appointed by President Bobby Vagt, explored issues of same-sex partners’ benefits, sexual harassment, parental leave, faculty tenure, departmental positions, bathroom facilities, campus lighting, and overall atmosphere.

“This was one of the first efforts at the college to coordinate concerns affecting both faculty and staff,” recounted English professor and working group co-chair Cynthia Lewis. “We were really trying to explore and find solutions to problems that are across the board in the Davidson community.”

The working group, which submitted its report in April, based its findings on confidential interviews of faculty and staff, an examination of Davidson’s current policies and statistics, as well as comparisons to the top 25 liberal arts colleges as ranked in the 1999 issue of U.S. News and World Report.

Number crunching

Over the past decade, Davidson has increased the number of women occupying top faculty and staff positions. The number of women holding tenure or tenure-track positions, for example, has increased from 24 to 43 since 1990.

“There are more women on the staff and faculty, and there are more women in positions where they can affect the outcome of decisions,” said working group member and Director of Alumni Relations Eileen Keeley.

Still, the current statistics are revealing. According to the report, eight of the college’s 50 trustees are women. Women occupy 43 of the 145 tenured or tenure-track positions. Six of the 22 department chairs are women. And, of the 28 endowed chairs, only four are held by women. And, until the election of psychology professor Ruth Ault last August, no woman had ever served on the faculty tenure committee. Among staff, women hold ten of the 35 executive, administrative, and managerial positions, while occupying 91 of the 95 clerical jobs.

What explains this under-representation of top positions? First, Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, the department chairs, and the human resources department have worked to increase the number of women hired. They contend, however, that in some cases the availability of managerial positions and the number of qualified women in certain disciplines such as physics or philosophy limit the applicant pool.

“We make a concerted effort to recruit women for managerial positions, but it is important to realize that turnover of managerial positions is very low,” explained Director of Human Resources Andy Brantley.

“The percentage of women in a given academic department is a manifestation of what is out there and the number of women getting Ph.D’s in the field,” explained working group member and 30-year veteran of the math department Ben Klein.

Second, as the working group noted, in order to ensure fair representation on various committees, the College often solicits women to serve on them. Consequently, women are sometimes over-committed and forced to turn down time-consuming, leadership positions.

“It is fair to state that often we ask much of individuals from demographically underrepresented groups,” Dean Ross acknowledged.pointed out, underrepresentation will only change with time and with a conscious effort to hire and promote female faculty and staff. “One third of the faculty is women, and there are more women at mid-level administrative positions,” Dean Marsicano noted. “We’ve made a lot of progress because it has been a priority. We cannot sit back and relax. This is a continuing process.”

Concerns and recommendations

The working group also examined Davidson’s policies concerning same-sex partners benefits, sexual harassment, and family leave. While the report recommended that Davidson adopt a same-sex partners benefit policy, the college had already initiated the development of a partners’ benefit plan. The policy was approved in June and will go into effect in October. “The adoption of the same-sex partners’ benefits was more about what we stopped saying,” said working group member and Dean of Residence Life Kurt Holmes. “Somehow we had implied a discriminatory bent, and now we are a more open and accepting community.”

See Gender equity, page 3

Richard Vinson

MP3 use threatened

Napster, file sharing services face uphill battle

By LINDY BALDWIN AND MATT WHITED
Staff Writers

Worries over copyright infringement are not at all new to the entertainment industry. In fact, ever since the most basic methods of copying began to reach the market, the major labels have been close to a constant state of panic over whether each new device would bring their demise. Over the past year, a formidable new player has come into the game. Internet startup Napster has proliferated more quickly than any could have expected, using the MP3 computer music format to spread pirated and legal music faster than ever before.

All of this has occurred much to the dismay of the recording industry, which has fought Napster every step of the way. In a recent article, Newsweek summarized the Napster court battles as a case of “Kids versus suits.” Calling today’s teens and twenty-somethings the “Napster Generation,” the piece cited the rampant use of controversial file-swapping programs such as Gnutella, MP3.com, and Napster on college campuses across the country. Davidson is no exception to this trend. A large portion of students with personal computers uses a music-sharing program. Napster, which debuted last August, is a program available for free download on the Internet that links its users to each other’s

See MP3’s, page 4

VAC exhibit presents diverse themes, novel media

Vampire Bass
Kimberly Richards

By CHRISTINA COOKE
Staff Writer

This month, four different artists with four different interests, mediums, and styles display their works in the VAC’s galleries. But despite their differences, the artists have one thing in common: they all teach art at Davidson.

Professor Cort Savage’s kinetic sculptures fill the first room of the Van Every and Edward M. Smith Gallery located to the left of the VAC’s entrance. Savage finds inspiration for many of his sculptures—the bronze figures in particular—by observing the natural and manufactured forms around him. “I’ll be looking on the side of the road and see a piece that has fallen off a car, and that form will interest me,” says Savage. He will return to his studio and create a sculpture that combines the shape of the car part with shapes he has noticed elsewhere. The forms of two of his works resemble the vertebral column—Mexican river rocks and rubber compose one, and morphine ampullae and radiator fluid compose the other. Savage uses the spine’s function as the foundation of the skeleton as a metaphor for every person’s “core body of information,” the storage place for the life experiences whose lessons stay with us always.

A sculpture entitled “Recurrence” dominates one of the gallery’s walls. In this work, a bundle of whittled wooden chain dangles from a point on the large steel hoop. When viewers step on a pad across the room, they activate a motor that rotates the hoop in a complete circle, sending the chains around too. Savage says, “The lifting of the chains is symbolic because it’s an ascension. Then putting them on the ground and dragging them is a burden.” He sees the rise as a sublime movement and the fall as a sorrow.

See VAC, page 7