By Katie WILSON

The world recently welcomed its six billionth citizen. The global population has doubled since the end of World War II and it is expected to reach ten billion by the year 2050. While the population growth rate has declined somewhat, we are still rapidly approaching the Earth’s carrying capacity. The population problem is a global one; no single country can solve it alone. However, everyone can contribute.

To find a solution to the population problem, we must look at its causes. The population growth occurring now is due to the disparity between high birth rates and low death rates, particularly in the Global South. Medical advancements around the world have considerably lowered mortality rates. Most developed countries have now reached a replacement rate of fertility: about 2.1 children per female. However, health care in developing countries has improved so much that families are now beginning to realize that having six children would actually mean having six children live! These countries have also not attained today’s urban ideal in which fewer children improve a family’s economic status. Hence, the key to curbing population growth is lowering birth rates across the world to match the replacement rates.

The role of women in population growth has been severely overlooked. For a long time, policymakers did not even acknowledge the very people that bear the babies. In some countries such as Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Tanzania, women are told that they contribute to the various national or religious causes simply by having children. They have no recognition other than as suppliers of the country’s army. Not having the option of a career and being neither paid nor thanked for the agricultural production they perform, women looked at having children as something they would finally be appreciated or rewarded for.

The women’s movement in population organizations looked to family planning as a first step. Programs for education and distribution of contraceptives have lowered fertility rates. Family planning, however, cannot have any real effect if the World Health Organization simply distributes contraceptives. These programs must also include early awareness about sexual activity (i.e., teenage pregnancy prevention), education about spacing of children, prenatal and postnatal health care for mothers and infants, and HIV/AIDS awareness. Population problems will continue if only one age group is targeted for education, or if illnesses prompt mothers to have more.

There are several groups toiling in this field. But they are usually small, local groups that do not have the infrastructure or funding to provide extensive health care and long-term education programs. It is now time to move these projects into the jurisdiction of national governments or large, well-funded international organizations.

Even though family planning is vital, it will not be of much help in curbing rising populations on its own. To effect this, we need to address the role of women in these societies since that is a bigger cause of population growth. Higher levels of education and economic empowerment are positively correlated with lower birth rates. The possibility of careers in business or management is a distant dream for women in developing countries (although that situation would probably contribute to lower fertility rates). Economic empowermentin the global south does not refer to the same glass ceilings we know here in the United States. Women do most of the agricultural work in the developing countries, but their husbands take the products to market. Titles to property are almost always in the husband’s name and women are often not allowed to have credit or bank accounts. Economic empowerment includes recognition for the work women do. It includes education about the working of markets and the provision of distribution and storage services for the products of women’s labor. The population explosion is only one symptom of the plight of women worldwide. Working to alleviate the inequality of women can change the population situation and vice versa. The global population problem seems overwhelming and it is frightening that we have to act within the next decade to keep from going over the 11 billion people landmark. Progress, however, can be achieved day by day in little ways. That it is already happening is evident. The growth rate worldwide has declined from 2.1 to 1.6 since the 1980s. Fifty percent of women in the developing world now use contraceptives. This is a marked rise from the ten percent in the 1960s. Thus, while there is a long way to go, there is hope nevertheless and this should be enough incentive for all of us to want to join the struggle to improve the lot of women all over the world.

The author is a freshman from Oak Ridge, Tennessee.

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

The effect of women on population spurts today

William Cohen. The US Defense Secretary became the first Defense Secretary to visit Vietnam since the end of the Vietnam War.

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

Russia. The Russian government triumphantly announced the capture of Salman Raduyev, a leading Chechen rebel.

North African relations. Diplomatic relations have resumed between Egypt and Sudan after they broke down almost five years ago when Egypt accused Sudan of an assassination attempt against their leader, Hosni Mubarak, in Ethiopia in 1995.

Ecuador. The IMF and other lenders offered the South American country two billion dollars over the next three years as long as the Ecuadorian congress passes a bill that is designed to secure international support for the government's plan to adopt the US dollar.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Taiwan. With presidential elections approaching, China warned the Taiwanese not to choose pro-independence leaders. Taiwanese politicians retorted that Taiwan would not be forced into reunification.

Nawaz Sharief. The contingent of defense lawyers for the deposed Pakistani Prime Minister was reduced when Iqbal Raad, one of the defense attorneys, was murdered in his own office. The rest of the defense team requested that Pakistan’s military government move the trial from Karachi to a safer location.

Peace in Kosovo. Increasing tensions between Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo are extremely worrying, say NATO officials. French peacekeepers had to resort to using tear gas when they found themselves trapped between hostile groups of Serbs and Albanians in the divided town of Mitrovica.

Tension in the Asian subcontinent. India announced a record 28% increase in defense spending for the fiscal year beginning in April. Pakistan criticized this rise, labeling it India’s “war budget.”