The Davidsonian

By Jessica Mering
Staff Writer

Catcards are often the currency of choice on campus — at the Commons, the Union, the laundry, and the bookstore. Beginning next semester, students will also be able to use them to pay for sodas from vending machines. This innovation is the first step towards making the Catcard even more functional than it is now.

Plans for card-readable vending machines have been in the works for a good while. The technology has been readily available for over a year, but until now, it hasn’t been reliable enough to be a good investment for Davidson, says Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry. Equipping machines with card readers is a significant investment. Each device costs about $800 and then must be installed on existing machines. The cost of the addition, however, will not increase drink prices.

Administrators have been exploring the possibility of upgrading the machines for a while. They wanted to be sure that the devices were practical and student response was positive before installation. Within the next few weeks, technicians from Coke and Pepsi, whose companies are financing most of the card readers, will be on campus to assist in installing scanners on twelve machines. In order to assure that students will not choose one company because its product is easier to buy than the other, Terry has made certain that an equal number of Coke and Pepsi machines are equipped.

Coke and Pepsi machines in Belk, Akers, Sentelle, South Chambers, West and North Chambers will be upgraded. Card readers will also be added in North Chambers (Coke only) and Watts (Pepsi only). The machines will subtract the purchase price from Bonus Bucks first and will draw from declining balance if Bonus Bucks are not available.

Card-readable machines will be more convenient, but they will also facilitate security and accounting. Since the device automatically tabulates purchases, immediate documentation will be available. This also eliminates the manpower needed to count and organize the coins used to purchase drinks. Furthermore, Terry expects that the card readers will be able to display the remaining balance on a Catcard after a purchase.

Gray Patterson ’03 is the chair of the SGA committee for Auxiliary Services: “I think it’ll be great. Lots of students here put their spending money on the declining balance and don’t carry cash with them,” he remarked.

With this expansion of the Catcard’s capabilities, more services are soon to follow. The library staff is currently exploring the possibility of equipping photocopiers with scanners. The copiers are compatible, and Terry says that this will be the next project once the soda machines are successfully equipped. Also possible is the use of Catcards at area businesses. The business would buy the card reader and its necessary equipment, such as a telephone line to transmit data back to Davidson.

---

DAVIDSON COURT
Elaine 896-5152
Karen 896-5110
896-8283

Historic Davidson for $103,000-$123,500
2&3 BR. Condos
Fireplaces, 9’ ceilings, garden courtyard, tile foyers
Model Open Sat. & Sun. 1-4pm
ALLEN TATE REALTORS

---

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN

EXPERIENCE ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989
ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A 20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE EXAMS.
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE • 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA.EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

Catcard expansion allows students more access to Davidson’s server. Terry points out that expanding the Catcard into the community would raise issues of equal access, since high up-front costs might preclude small firms from taking advantage of the equipment. “We don’t want to deprive owner-operated businesses from students’ business just because they wouldn’t be able to pay with a Catcard at a larger chain,” he said.

At schools like Duke University, outside businesses have already taken advantage of student card payment. Domino’s Pizza uses card readers and shares 20% of its profit from those sales with the school. Terry says that the Davidson-area Domino’s would be interested in a similar arrangement. Implementing this kind of system would also allow students to use their Catcards to pay for food at football and baseball games, where outside vendors run the concession stands.

Adding card readers to vending machines is only the beginning of a process to augment the Catcard’s functionalities. But while this will increase students’ options, it has its drawbacks. “I think it’ll be good and bad. Good because it’s convenient, but bad because it’s convenient, too! It’ll be so much easier to spend money without thinking about it!” concluded Joey Harris ’02.

The Davidsonian is seeking students to work in business and advertising. Paid positions available. Contact Peter Clark x5218 or David Johnston x5607.

By David Wheeler and Julia Philpott

By STEPHANIE COURCHESNE
Health Advisor

The semester is winding down, exams are close at hand, and Christmas vacation is nearly in sight. Everyone is looking forward to the day when we leave our beloved Davidson College for a long month at home. Ah, our own beds, Mom’s home cooking—what could be better? But wait, you say? Everything WON'T be perfect? What could go wrong?

There are many adjustments that both college students and parents must make when vacations roll around. Perhaps you have already gotten a sense of this over Fall Break or Thanksgiving. But Christmas Break is the real test. A month back at home is long enough to notice some changes.

First of all is the sleeping issue. As college students, most people tend to go to bed pretty late and spend most of the morning sleeping in. But not everyone runs on the same schedule, and it is pretty hard to forgive your mother for waking you up early.

Then there are the rules pertaining to going out. College students are used to coming and going as they please. Curfews are a thing of the past. Until you return home and wonder why the police have been out looking for you because you left the house without telling anyone and stayed out until 3. And then you find out that those old rules of the house still apply.

There are lots of issues that students and parents may find themselves in disagreements about—the phone bill, who gets to use the car, and why we should bother to unpack when we are just going to pack again at the end of the break. And then there is that dreaded day when the break ends, and the students return to school.

But just remember that having college students home can be difficult for parents too.