By Pambos Demosthenous

The countries of the West, mainly the United States and United Kingdom, have recognized Turkey’s inestimable geographic position and, in
turn, the endless possibilities of cooperation with the global community for peace in the Middle East and the greater Caucasus
area it presents. The extent to which these dreams have been incarnated, and the degree to which Turkey has helped
resolve peace in the area are quite questionable. NATO and the United States dump billions of dollars in cash and
hi-tech military equipment into Turkey annually. According to the West’s “wild dreams,” Turkey serves as a barrier to the Islamic
fundamentalism that has been the latest trend to emerge from the Islamic Middle Eastern countries. Turkey is also supposed to
serve as a balancing and stabilizing power for the small and newly formed countries of the Caucasus and was even
given four global satellites to transmit all its government television and radio channels in the area.

In the Balkans, considering the large Muslim population in parts of Bulgaria, Montenegro, and Bosnia Herzegovina, Turkey is counted upon
to maintain peace. It is expected to maintain a good relationship with Iraq since the water problem that has been
vandalizing the relationships of the two countries still persists. The Tigris and Euphrates pass through Turkey before going to arid
Iraq, and Turkey has repeatedly threatened to impede these waterways. Has this aided their relationship? On its Western border, it
is expected to cooperate with Greece, the other NATO member in the area. Instead, twice in the past four years,
US intervention was necessary to evade war between the two allies. Furthermore, Turkey still occupies thirty-eight percent of the Republic
of Cyprus. Until recently, this blocked Turkey from participating in negotiations with the European Union. The problem remained unresolved, yet
in a “goodwill” decision, Greece removed the veto for the induction proceedings to begin for Turkey.

Furthermore, in a recent episode with Syria involving the Kurdish population in the East of the country, a Turkish military
general threatened Syria that the Turkish military would be marching into Damascus in three weeks if Syria continued supporting the
Kurdish population. This threat alerted the Syrian military war-machine and, once again, international intervention was needed. Evidently, Turkey has not
only ‘succeeded’ in maintaining hostile relationships with all of its neighboring countries, but also continues to violate the human rights
of other populations. Since the 1980s, the Turkish State has admitted to killing as many as 14,000 people with death
squads and paramilitary groups. The latest U.S. State Department annual report on human rights has documented the destruction by Turkish
armed forces of 3,000 Kurdish villages inhabited by an estimated one to three million Kurdish civilians. Needless to say, the
Kurdish population amounts to close to 20 percent of Turkey. Since 1955, Turkish mobs have effectively destroyed the ancient Greek
community of Constantinople/Istanbul through pogroms, mass expulsions, and other discriminatory policies, reducing the population from over 100,000 to less than
2,500. Furthermore, more than three attempts have been made on the life of the Orthodox “Global Patriarch” Bartholomew in the
last two years.

Concerning Cyprus, the small island in the Mediterranean Sea where I come from, 40,000 Turkish troops still occupy thirty-eight percent
of the country. The Cyprus military, in which I served as a sergeant for twenty-six months, amounts to only 15,000
members. United Nations troops patrol the ‘Attila Line’ between the two opposing forces ensuring peace. Their purpose there is not
to protect the Turkish Cypriot minority that lives in the illegally formed country, but rather...

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:
- Legislation adopting Sharia in Turkey.
- East Timor. After five months of interim trusteeship, the Australian peacekeeping forces handed the governance of the nation to
the United Nations.
- Israel. The United States agreed to let the Jewish state have access to American nuclear technology that it was
previously denied. Though Israel possesses advanced nuclear weapons, it has not signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:
- Taiwan. China threatened the nation with invasion if it continued to put off discussions on reunification. The United States
is concerned with China’s stance and some members of Congress believe that China should be denied membership to the WTO.
- Peace in Kosovo. Tensions rose again in the former Yugoslavian province when groups of Serbs and Albanians converged on
a bridge in the town of Mitrovica. Peacekeepers were barely able to keep the combating groups separated.
- Christians in Nigeria. Over 100 people were killed when Nigerian Christians protested at the prospect of Islamic Law or
Sharia being imposed on citizens of Kaduna—a city in northern Nigeria. Kaduna joins two other Nigerian states that have already
passed Sharia.
- General Augusto Pinochet. Judges from four European countries asked...Britain not to release Chile’s former dictator on medical grounds. Separately,
a human-rights group asked the European Court of Human Rights to block the general’s release.

Kurds in Turkey. Mayors of three Kurdish cities in south-east Turkey were arrested for providing assistance to Kurdish terrorists. This
sparked off angry demonstrations by Kurds.

NATO and the other side. This is the reason that the Republic of Cyprus contributes enormous amounts of money for
the maintenance of the UN troops. Can 15,000 compete with 40,000, and the second largest military of NATO? Impossible. Turkey
has applied this support from the West and used it to satisfy its own plans. In 1974, the Turkish troops
invaded the island with the excuse of protecting the Turkish Cypriot minority. The Turkish-Cypriot population has increased almost two-fold in
twenty-five years. This far exceeds any possible rates attainable by the human species, even considering endless resources. How did that
happen? The Turkish government undertook the colonization of the occupied part of the island with Turkish citizens, offering them counterfeit
papers under different names claiming Turkish Cypriot roots, free land, and housing. Needless to say, my parents’ house in the
occupied part and my inherited land is divided among Turkish settlers. This act has enraged Greek Cypriots, while leading Turkish
Cypriots to form the “Turkish Cypriot People’s Movement,” a movement against the Turkish settlers. As Dr. Fazil Kutchuk, the former
vice-president of Cyprus before the invasion and representative of the Turkish Cypriots, states in the Turkish Cypriot newspaper Halkin Sesi,
‘We warned the officials that the newcomers would be a nuisance to our decent citizens. The newcomers were given houses,
land, food, and money. They were also given thousands of liras under settlement credits. They told the Turkish Cypriots: We
saved you—get out of here. These places belong to us.’ Indeed, how much interest did Turkey have in the Turkish
Cypriots? How did they help their economy? Why has the majority of Turkish Cypriots been forced to emigrate? More than
50,000 out of the 106,000 have left the island due to unemployment, economic, social, and moral degradation. The standard of
living in Northern Cyprus is four times lower than that of the official Republic, while crime, poverty, and unemployment are
on the rise. Cyprus has one of the lowest inflation rates in Europe, one hundred percent literacy, and crime is
the lowest of any European country. While it has only a limited amount of resources and attractions, it still manages
to attract four million tourists a year, which makes up nearly fifty percent of the country’s income. On the other
hand, Turkey possesses more than 70% of the natural resources of the island and 80% of tourist attractions. Why then
do we see an inflation of 100%, poverty, and unemployment? Turkey had repeatedly stated that Turkish-Cypriots had been the objects
of discrimination and opposition from the Greek Cypriot population. Why then has the occupied part, ‘free from its oppressors’ for
the past 26 years, remained so underdeveloped? Why did Turkey fail to improve the living conditions of its “brothers” of
the “junior country?” Perhaps it serves Turkey’s ultimate purpose. Perhaps it is only seen as a military base, a geographical
position that is like a satellite, a watchtower to any emerging hostile plans from its neighbors. What other country in
the world has one soldier for every four citizens? None. Alternatively, should it even be called a country since nobody
recognizes it? Turkey today continues to support the occupation of Cyprus as a legitimate intervention for maintaining the peace on
the island and protecting the Turkish Cypriot minority. Unfortunately, Turkey has not brought anything but misfortune to the island. It
has also failed to bring a better living for the Turkish-Cypriots which supposedly it came to “save.”

The author is a freshman Genetics major from Cyprus.

Study abroad is a transformative process. It helps you to understand the changing world around you and reveals ways for
you to weave these new insights into the choices you'll make for your future. With over fifty years’ experience in
international education and programs in Australia, Austria, Great Britain, Greece, Ireland, Mexico, and Spain, the Beaver College Center for Education
Abroad specializes in helping students discover fresh perspectives. Our professional staff is always available to deliver outstanding personalized service, whether
you choose to study with us for a semester, year, or summer. Contact us today and begin planning the experience
of your lifetime! Call 1-888-BEAVER-9 or visit our website at www.beaver.edu/cea.

Beaver College Center for Education Abroad
