Volleyball splits conference matches with UTC, Western
By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Those that fly highest often make the most alluring targets. So when Davidson rolled into Chattanooga’s lair with an illustrious 22-game Southern Conference win streak, the Lady Mocs were lying ferociously in wait, poised with their best shot—and it found its target.

Chattanooga (6-6, 3-1) sniped down the mighty Wildcats (5-6, 2-1) on Saturday, sweeping three games (15-7, 17-15, 15-11) to give Davidson its first Southern Conference loss since November 11, 1998. Freshman Kari Krouse provided the surprise firepower for the Lady Mocs. The first-year outside hitter from Fort Wayne, Ind., tallied 19 kills, 17 digs, two block assists, and a solo block.

Chattanooga won the first game handily, but Davidson jumped out to a 12-3 lead in game two. But the Mocs roared back, staving off two game-point opportunities for Davidson before claiming the 17-15 victory. “We came out strong in the second game, but did not capitalize on our lead and gradually UTC inched their way back,” conceded Wildcat head coach Tami Darwin. “Basically, we needed to put the game away.”

Chattanooga carried that momentum into the third and deciding game, pulling away 15-11 to seal the victory. Three Wildcat seniors turned in impressive performances on the night: Mara Mordini led the ‘Cats with 10 kills and 17 digs, Brooke Bentley notched seven kills and 15 digs, while Katherine Lorenz pulled out 13 digs.

But the Wildcats’ newfound losing ways were short-lived. The squad visited Cullowhee, NC on the way home, and bounced back with a decisive three-game victory over Western Carolina’s Catamounts (2-7, 1-2). “It was a solid win for us,” said Darwin. “Our girls showed a lot of heart to come back from a tough loss with that kind of a performance.” Mordini led the charge with a remarkable 20 kills and 13 digs, good enough for her sixth double-double of the young season. Junior Jennifer Ortega also performed nicely, tallying 15 kills and 10 digs.

Field Hockey
By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

It wasn’t supposed to be pretty. Even Davidson’s most loyal supporters thought the Wildcats were crazy to even board the Wake-bound bus on Sunday. After all, Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons (7-0) have been indomitable thus far in 2000. Three weeks ago, they trounced Michigan State—last year’s #2 team in the country—with a decisive 6-0 shutout. In fact, Wake Forest, widely considered one of the nation’s five best teams, has swarmed past opponents this season by an average score of 5.6 to 0.2.

But Jen Halliday’s budding program held their own, turning in perhaps their most solid performance of the season in the face of such daunting competition. Wake earned the 7-2 victory, but it was Davidson that had a reason to smile at the final buzzer.

While Wake Forest head coach Jen Averill lamented her squad’s “costly mistakes” after the game, Davidson’s Halliday beamed with satisfaction after her scrappy squad handed the prodigious Demon Deacons the biggest test of their undefeated season. “It was really exciting to see,” said Halliday. “They’re a strong team, and we felt very positive about our performance.”

In fact, Davidson was the first squad in the nation to net two goals against Wake Forest’s vaunted defense. Sophomore Agnes Bateman, one of Davidson’s brightest young stars, struck first for the ‘Cats, flipping the ball into the top of the net with 15:20 to go in the game. And with less than a minute to play, senior Jennie Gold finished a nicely-executed corner to earn the Wildcats’ second goal.

The Wildcats will jaunt to Catawba on Thursday before returning home for a 1:00 Homecoming contest against NorPac rival Appalachian State.Season at J. Madison Press RELEASE

This past weekend, the Davidson golf team opened its fall season under first-year head coach Tim Straub with an 11th-place finish out of 17 teams at the James Madison University Invitational. The invitational was held at Lakeview Golf Course, a par-71, 6,496-yard course, in Harrisonburg, Va. St. John’s claimed the top spot in the two-day tournament at 16-over par, including a strong finish at 286 on the second day, just two-over par. The top finisher for the Wildcats was sophomore Ben Friedell with an eight-over 150 for his two rounds. He finished in a tie for 24th place overall. Other Wildcat golfers were sophomore Frank Walker (T-37, 152), senior Sean Davidson and junior Dan Carlson (T-42, 153), and freshman Erik Heidefors (T-82, 163).

Four players finished in a tie for first at one-under par — Andrew Svoboda of St. John’s, Chris Cope of James Madison, Daniel Lee of Rutgers, and Tim Pemberton of William & Mary. Davidson will hit the links again on Oct. 2-3 at the 2000 Seahawk/River Landing Intercollegiate Tournament hosted by UNC Wilmington.

Davidson travels to Charleston this weekend, with two matches on the docket. The Wildcats visit Charleston’s Kresse Arena on Saturday, and round out the doubleheader with a clash at The Citadel on Saturday night.

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

It’s gut check time. Just days into Southern Conference play, the inevitable became an immediate reality as Davidson’s win streak and their air of invincibility disappeared into the thin Tennessee mountain air on Saturday. All of a sudden, the team that couldn’t lose finds itself hovering around .500 (5-6 overall, 2-1 in conference), good enough for fourth place in the Southern Conference after the first week of action.

Early-season Wildcat losses were to be expected. The program’s national acclaim last year translated into a series of “Davidson vs. Goliath” match-ups this fall against some of the country’s strongest teams. But the loss to Chattanooga hit far closer to home—and proved irrevocably that the 2000 Southern Conference Title will not be earned with 1999’s 20-0 SoCon record.

This means that September’s first round of conference action has quickly morphed from a mere warm-up into a series of defining moments. Will the loss be a demoralizing blow that plunges the ‘Cats toward mediocrity? Or will it be a resounding inspiration, tearing away even the tiniest shreds of complacency and providing a spark that re-ignites their passions and catapults the team back to the pinnacle of greatness? That, of course, remains to be seen.

Mike Tyson once snickered, “Everybody has a plan until they get hit.” And, yes, the Wildcats have been hit. But this team has all the ingredients for success—a core of superstar talent, a vast array of senior leadership, and a committed coaching staff. And should those ingredients come together, the Chattanooga loss will not be remembered as “the day the streak ended,” but rather as the day before the new one began.

Spring Break 2001
Davidson Informational Meeting
Tuesday, Sept. 26 at 10:00 p.m.
Home Room / Union
Sponsored by: The Chaplain’s Office & United Methodist Church
For more information, contact:
Chaplain Rob Spach: 894-2423
email: rospach@davidson.edu
Rev. Andy Baxter: 892-8277
email: andy.baxter@juno.com

Crash Talk
Will Roberson

In 2000, Tiger Woods will make $54 million dollars in endorsements alone.... Frank Thomas is the AL MVP.... The New York football teams are a combined 6-0... What was up with Melissa Stark’s jean jacket on Monday Night Football?... NASCAR is dumb.... Tennessee got robbed by the refs against Florida....