By Christina Cooke

Staff Writer

Last weekend, ten Davidson students learned to love spandex—and not just because of its stylishness.

During the day, the material made hours on a bike seat a more pleasant experience, and at night, its fibers
warmed the sleeping riders. As one participant expressed, “spandex gooooo0o0o000d.”

Over the weekend, the group, organized by Davidson Outdoors and led by Bruce Bell ’00 and Christina Cooke ’03, cycled
the 57-mile New River Trail through the mountains of southern Virginia. The New River Trail is part of a national
network of railroad tracks that have been converted to public hiking, biking, and horseback riding trails.

As the riders followed the trail along the river through the valley, they traversed many faces of the Virginian countryside.
They passed by pastures of chewing cows and houses with wide porches and tin roofs. They passed through arbors of
arching tree branches and tunnels carved through rocks.

Numerous times, the riders crossed wooden bridges that led from one bank of the river to the other. From the
middle of these bridges, far above the water, they often dismounted to admire the view that stretched miles in both
directions.

“It’s nice to know that you’ve seen a new stretch of America and that you’re familiar with another area,” says
Matt Dixon ‘03.

“The trail was smooth and wide enough that we could all ride two abreast comfortably and not worry about spilling
on the trail,” remembers Bell. Thus, as riders pedaled, they could discuss everything from last semester’s classes to the newest
models of “fertility-friendly” bike seats. “It’s always fun to get out there with people you don’t know,” notes Shannon McGuire
’03.

“I think everyone got along very well and genuinely cared about everyone’s experience. Everyone was quick to help each other
out,” continues Bell.

Delilahs record rookie effort

By Thomas Cullen
Arts & Living Editor

The Delilahs, one of Davidson’s three a cappella groups, recently finished recording their first CD.

Recorded by Andrew Gilliland from Hyperactive Studios, the girls had a great time doing it, according to Ida Wainschel ’01.
“I was really pleased with the way we handled ourselves,” she added.

Hyperactive happens to be the studio that recorded Cast Iron Filter, a popular Davidson band.

The process of recording is not an easy one for any group. According to Wainschel, the Generals had, and are
still having, trouble with all of the legalities of the process. The Generals have yet to get their copyrights.

Wainschel wanted the Generals’ experience to be one that the Delilahs learned from, and they did. Wainschel says that the
group has almost all of their copyrights in place.

The Delilahs plan to hold their next concert with the Generals on the night before Reading Day. Though they have
not decided on a location yet, they plan to distribute the record at the event.

The eleven members of the Delilahs are drawn from the classes of 2001, 2002, and 2003. Members are: Anna Katherine
Clemmons ‘01, Page Neubert ‘01, Jen Joslin ‘01, Stephanie Kohler ‘01, Darcy Peifer ‘01, Katie Young ‘01, Ida Wainschel ‘01,
Carrie Frazier ‘02, Sharon Meidt ‘03, Ashlee White ‘03, and Meredith Shuba ’03.

The Davidsonian
Wednesday, November 8, 2000

Students enjoyed the fall scenery on the trail through the southern Virginia countryside.

As the sun set on the first day, the riders found themselves still several miles from their campsite and the
van full of gear. In the darkness, they became more prone to encounter what Tiffany Lautensleger ’02 describes as the
“unpredictable squish of large mounds of horse poo,” which they had been able to dodge in the daylight. Fortunately, they
reached their campground without any casualties.

After setting up camp on the banks of the New River, the riders sautéed veggies on the stove for fajitas
and roasted marshmallows around a campfire for s’mores. Afterwards, all gravitated towards the tents.

“My fave part of the day was getting into the sleeping bag in my toasty synthetic apparel and then actually
getting the full 8 hours,” declared Lautensleger.

When the group arose in the morning and saw their location for the first time in the daylight, Bell realized
that, “Our campsite couldn’t have been better. I woke up to a view of cliffs across the river reddening as
the sun rose.”

The group pedaled 19 miles on the second day before pulling into the final town, downing tuna sandwiches, and collapsing
on the lawn in the sun to wait for the shuttle to return them to the van.

“I think it’s great to get some distance from this crazy place called Davidson College and to rekindle the senses
that have little relevance to life here on campus,” muses Bell. “More importantly, I think it’s a great excuse to
spend real time getting to know people better. I think all this is enhanced when a sense of achievement is
mutual, regardless of the goal.”

On these trips, adds D.O. Director Ed Daugherty, “You get to spend time with people you may not have known
before, doing something you may not have done before, in a place you may not have been before.”

And you can do all of these things, as a participant says, “whilst getting real buff.”

The Davidson Opera Theater Wants You!

To audition, on Sunday, November 19, from 2:00 - 5:00 p.m. in Oak Row South, for two one-act comedies to
be sung in English. Performance dates are May 5th and 6th, 2001.

Interested persons should contact Diane Thornton at extension 2592, and sign up for an audition time at the Music Office
in Cunningham Hall.
