Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian

By Jenn Hiccins
Staff Writer

Was it the accordion or the bagpipes in the stands that caught the Wolfpack off-guard? Or maybe it was the horns and the coin rattle? But it was most likely the hard-working defense of the Davidson Wildcats (3-1) that caused the shutout Saturday afternoon on the old Varsity Soccer Field.

The Wolfpack got off to a good start by creating a couple of good opportunities to get on the scoreboard. But the Davidson defense wasn’t passing out free goals on this hot September day. The aggressive Wildcat defense continued to deny the Pack and helped to create their own opportunities up top throughout the first half. Until finally, in the thirty-fifth minute, Catie Williams ‘04 saw the opportunity of the game. After becoming trapped in crowded territory in front of the goal, she touched the ball back to a waiting Deneille Erikson ‘04. Erikson proceeded to break through the Pack defense and at the last second let off a shot that was so powerful it sent the NC State goalkeeper along with the ball into the back of the net. Not only did Erikson grab her first collegiate goal and the game-winner, she also shattered Wolfpack goalkeeper Kristen Skinner’s 340 minute and 11 second shutout streak.

The second half saw a persistent State team determined to get the equalizer or better yet, the win. The Wolfpack took eleven of their sixteen shots in the second half, prompting goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan ‘01 to have five of her six saves in the second half in response. Corrigan’s leadership by example kept the determined Davidson team going throughout a rough half of play. The crowd got into it as it began to seem that the players on the field spent more time on the ground than they did with the ball. Much of the jersey tugging and hooking went unnoticed by the referee who was heckled by State and Cats fans alike.

Each team had big opportunities in the second half as a result of the “unnecessary roughness.” NC State was awarded a free kick at the top of the box midway through the half that was intercepted by a thick-skinned Davidson defensive wall. And after an overzealous State player tackled Davidson’s Leigh Anne Hoskins ‘04 from behind as she approached the goal, a penalty kick was awarded in the eighty-second minute. Carolyn Stumpf ‘02 took the kick for Davidson, which sailed just wide of the right goalpost. But the rough play didn’t seem to bother Tara Maloney ‘03, who described it to be “business as usual.”

“In a game when you can’t always expect the ref to blow his whistle,” said Maloney, “you have to learn to hold your own and not get frustrated.”

The last eight minutes were just as intense as the previous eighty-two. After Wednesday night’s last-minute goal against Charlotte, the Cats were prepared for a possible overtime battle for the win. Yet Corrigan and her defense were not about to allow that to be a possibility. They continued to reject the Wolfpack’s advances until the final horn (or bagpipes) sounded. And the Cats held on for their third shutout of the season.

Senior co-captain Corrigan was excited about the win, but continues to stay focused on the big picture for the season. “We came out and did what we needed to do to win a game that we should have won,” says Corrigan. “We’re pleased with the win but it is only a stepping stone towards the more difficult games on our schedule.”

Hard work and heart appeared to be the theme of this game. Along with Corrigan, upperclassmen like Sarah Falconi ‘01, Natalie Cox ‘02, and Penn Graves ‘02 remembered the 2-0 loss to NC State last year and were determined to erase it. The sophomore Maloney twins, Heather and Tara, continued to break through the opposition’s defense with their brilliant crosses and fancy footwork.

“A lot of players contributed to this encouraging...win over an ACC team,” said Meghan Estes ‘03. In the NC State game summary, Pack head coach Laura Kerrigan was quoted as saying, “We outplayed them and outshot them...” Indeed, the stats show that the Wolfpack did outshoot the Wildcats on Saturday afternoon, but it was pretty apparent which team had the bigger heart.

Women’s soccer comeback thwarted by 49ers OT goal
By JENN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

A chill was in the air. Maybe it was an augur of the type of game that would follow. On Wednesday evening, the cross-county rivalry between the Wildcats of Davidson College, who entered with a 3-0 record, and the 49ers of Charlotte, who stood at 2-2, resumed its ferocity under the lights of Richardson Stadium. Some 250 fans were on hand to watch the annual game that has been fueling the rivalry for the past seven years. Although the Wildcats had the home field advantage, the 49ers held a considerable edge in the series at 6-0-1. But with the Cats being 3-0 for the first time in team history, they came out more prepared than ever to force the upset.

Charlotte started the game off with two early goals to take the lead 2-0. Charlotte’s Jill Currie, the Conference-USA’s reigning Player of the Year, netted the first goal of the evening at the four-minute mark off of a deflection from junior Dawn Geyer. Freshman Kim Moore followed just five minutes later in a circus spectacle of sorts off a Charlotte corner kick. Mikel Casey headed the ball to Kim Moore, who headed it into the back of the net. Yet the Davidson women were not content to go into the locker room down two goals at the half.

“We all knew that we just needed one goal to get some momentum going,” said Leigh Anne Hoskins ‘04. And with that heart and an Amy Johnston ’03 free kick from thirty yards out, the Wildcats were back in the game. Luckily, Hoskins was on the end of that free kick and was drawn like a magnet into the back of the goal. The Charlotte keeper Jennifer Howell attempted to beat Hoskins but was left only with the taste of Smith Field in her mouth. Hoskins jumped over the reaching keeper to dribble the ball into the goal. And Charlotte held only a one-goal lead going into halftime.

The second half was a battle to the very end. Even after the drizzle and the wind started to pick up, the Wildcats and their fans held on for the equalizer. Senior co-captain and starting goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan was there to make two huge saves when the team needed them the most. And with less than 2 minutes remaining in the game, Heather Maloney ’03 broke through heavy Charlotte traffic to flick the ball on to an open Hoskins. Once again, Hoskins placed a shot in the goal past the keeper, only this time in the upper 90 out of her reach.

But the finish belonged to Charlotte. Six minutes into the fifteen-minute “sudden death” overtime, Charlotte’s Meredith Mayo took a hard shot from the top of the box that hit the crossbar like a rocket. Amidst heavy movement in the goal box, 49er freshman forward Jill Hayes managed to find the rebound and net the game-winner. The final score had Charlotte winning 3-2 in overtime.

In a rough game fueled by the passion of a great rivalry, the numbers show just how close it really was. Charlotte took 17 shots while Davidson took 15. And Charlotte committed 11 fouls to Davidson’s 10. This was a hard-fought game full of heart until the very end.

“I’m disappointed that we were unable to come away with a victory,” said head coach Kevin Hundley. “But I’m encouraged by the fact that we had the composure and heart to get a goal back in the first half, and then continued to work until literally almost the last minute of the game and tie it.”