Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

For the average New Yorker, the recent Millennium Assembly of the United Nations simply meant more roadblocks and security guards. From the outside, the single largest meeting of foreign heads of state in history appeared to be nothing more than a collection of presidents, prime ministers, and potentates shaking hands for photographers and admiring each other’s limousines. Had anyone bothered to listen to the rhetoric issuing from this international cocktail party, they would have heard a clear message: much of the world lives in poverty, and the gap between rich and poor is increasing. While few agree on how to address these problems, all realize that development is high on the international agenda. At the same time, intrastate conflicts hinder our best efforts at sustainable development. Now, the people of regions such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, East and West Timor, and Sierra Leone are caught in the middle of an alphabet soup of warring factions — the RCD versus the MLC, the CDF against the RUF.

Yet, in one case, the United States is both aggravating an existing conflict and investing a huge chunk of its aid money where no need exists. The United States’ role in the Middle East and its support of Israel are inconsistent with present political realities. At this time of crisis for the peace process, the US must take the time to reassess its approach to the negotiations. In addition, the US currently provides a great deal of support to the Israeli state (more than one-fourth of US foreign aid); it is time for this subsidizing of Israel to end.

First, the polarized view of the world that characterized the Cold War is no longer applicable to international relations—there is no more “us” versus “them.” The race to secure allies in strategic territories led the US to throw vast amounts of economic, financial, and military aid to countries with which it held friendly relations. How can we expect to be considered a legitimate moderator if we have consistently shown bias in favor of Israel?

After the latest failure at the Camp David Peace Summit, US diplomats blamed the lack of progress on Palestinian intransigence. In fact, both Israelis and Palestinians made it clear going into the negotiations that they would only be satisfied with a comprehensive agreement. When they quarreled over the status of Jerusalem, the talks collapsed. It was unfair and irresponsible of the US representatives to single out the Palestinians. Israel has a per capita income comparable to that of the United Kingdom—hardly a developing country.

Third, Israel was a key ally in the Middle East during the Cold War, while many of the other countries of the region sided with the Soviet Union (primarily to oppose Israel). Our main national interest in the Middle East is no longer the support of our allies but the maintenance of peace and stability. Peace, not strategic advantage, is in the interest of the US.

Second, the nature of our current involvement in the situation only serves to make the conflict worse. We hold peace summits and try to work with leaders from both sides to form a comprehensive peace plan. However, how can we expect to be considered a legitimate moderator if we have consistently shown bias in favor of Israel?

Response to Ashooh’s criticism

This is in response to Khoury Ashooh’s recent articles concerning Hillary Clinton and Al Gore. I find it interesting how easy it is for him to take shots at these two candidates, accusing Mrs. Clinton of being “afraid” and Mr. Gore of being a “lying bag of hot air,” but yet he has nothing positive to say about the Republican candidates for office, primarily George W. Bush.

Why waste so much editorial space with negative, inflammatory language that in most cases is so biased that the truth is never even revealed? Specifically, as far as Al Gore is concerned, I could go through George W. Bush’s campaign piece by piece, detail by detail, and find just as many discrepancies and contradictions about him, probably even more. But let’s not waste the reader’s time. Negative campaigning on the part of the Republican presidential candidate is ridiculous and self-defeating, because we all know that “Dubya” has had quite a few “Bushisms” of his own. Rather than fill up the pages of the Davidsonian with personal attacks, why don’t we all get real and talk about the issues and what is truly at stake in this year’s election? I would think that intelligent Davidson students would have much more interest in the truth than the real “hot air” that has been published of late.

Kristine Harrington ‘03

The Davidsonian @ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @ http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

---

Note: The text has been cleaned up for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.21,200)—hardly a developing country. If the US is serious about ending poverty, fighting the spread of disease, and promoting good governance, then it should put our tax money to work where it will be most effective, in those countries struggling against acute underdevelopment. Finally, there is a new generation of Arab leaders in the Middle East who represent a renewed opportunity for democracy in these nations. Both King Abdullah II of Jordan and President Bashar al-Assad of Syria have had extensive contact with the western world and have indicated that they welcome various reforms that will lead their governments to become more transparent and free. If the US is to influence and encourage these reform-minded leaders, it must demonstrate that it can be impartial in the region.

Riots have erupted in the occupied territories and in Israel subsequent to a visit by Likud party leader Ariel Sharon to the holy sites in the Old City of Jerusalem. The current violence, the worst in many years, has claimed the lives of scores of Palestinians and of several Israelis. Among the victims was a twelve-year-old Palestinian boy who was caught in the crossfire with his father. Meanwhile, an anti-statehood bill is building steam in Congress. This bill threatens to eliminate all aid to the Palestinian authority in the event of a unilateral declaration of independence. While the US looks for politically correct terms to define its foreign policy, people are dying. It is time for our nation to place peace and stability ahead of the pressures of electoral politics and an anachronistic view of a polarized world. The US should seek solutions instead of scapegoats.

Aaron Houck & Richard Vinson, Editors-in-chief

Does Nike have an anthem? I came to a startling realization yesterday. No, it was not that I have red hair, nor was it the astonishing shock that my last article was rather below par. The Olympics are going on! You know, the quadrennial worldwide event that pits titans of prowess against each other in backbreaking competitions to see who can sell the most soft drinks. Competition has been fierce this year, with amazing displays of bravado and dexterity by sneaker and credit card, Gatorade and Coca-Cola alike. The conversation that this year’s games has stimulated is also great, “Did you see the dazzling dismount by that young gymnast wearing the swoosh?” “Oh, yes, but frankly, I am more partial to the one wearing that leotard made by sweatshop workers in 3rd world countries working for that wonderful multi-national corporation!”

I wish that the Olympics could get back to its roots. You know, back to the basics of naked men running around on dirt paths and throwing pointed objects (not those, you sickos, javelins) at each other. But, alas, commercialization has killed the game. Gone are the naked men and the pointy javelins. Instead, we have athletes like Marion Jones who plan on winning 5 gold medals for the glory of the goddess of Victory (appropriately enough)...err...I mean America. I honestly don’t even know who has won what or, for that matter, if anything has been won at all. For all I know, Somalia could be sweeping the Olympics with their warlords turned tri-athletes. I am not quite sure who is to blame for my ignorance. I suppose it could have something to do with my half-hour of TV a week limit, but I suspect it is actually due to the fact that the Olympics is taking place in late September, 17 hours away, in another hemisphere, and in a land peopled by convicts. That’s right. Australia used to be a penal colony. One giant Sing Sing. I guess that is how they can justify setting the Pommel Horse two inches too low. They must have been too busy ogling all of those expensive cell phones not to notice that they screwed up an event that only comes once every four years! I mean really, they didn’t even bother to check it twice? I measure twice before I hang a painting on the wall, let alone set up the sole support for a bunch of world-class sponsors...err...I mean gymnasts. (And no, I am not obsessive-compulsive).

What really catches my attention, though, is the new sport, trampoline. It is pure genius I tell you, pure genius. This Olympics’ planners cannot claim credit for this act of genius. It has actually been mankind’s fantasy (I stress man) for eons. One needs simply to look at the Man Show. They have been staunch supporters of this grueling and deserving sport for years. So get out and support Nike’s trampoliners as any good American should! and sure that it is a very safe and law-abiding community of both convicts and consumers. Furthermore, he is an avid supporter of both Coca-Cola and Nike. Now he must leave and watch the girls...err...athletes jump up and down on trampolines.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Note: Andrew has never been to Australia.