Judging from our own headlines, Davidson has been making big changes of late. Cash has flowed freely for new construction projects both large and small. It seems that the entire campus is in the throes of prolonged cosmetic surgery. What might have appeared odd on this idyllic campus in years past is now quite commonplace—namely, detour signs, restricted areas, and mud in varying thicknesses. What do we have to show for it? Some students moved into a new residence hall, fully equipped with instructions on how to wash toilets. Others are awakened each morning to the sound of the continuing construction, deconstruction, and reconstruction on what will someday be our new campus center. Trivial concerns, to be sure. No doubt the final products will be worth the inconveniences to students.

Already much progress has been made. The parking situation has finally resolved itself, and students no longer face such roundabout entries and exits to and from campus. Newly planted grass is beginning to sprout. Before too very long, Cannon and Sentelle residents might actually be able to walk straight to Vail.

By contrast, progress is also evident in other, less visible areas. As a result of deliberate action by the Board of Trustees, faculty members have seen significant salary increases for the past two years. Moreover, the generosity of the Duke endowment has made a big difference in the educational experiences of roughly fifty Davidson students. The gift of laptop computers represents a big step towards addressing persistent inequities in the resources available to some students.

When push comes to shove, the fact remains that faculty salaries at Davidson lag behind those of other institutions in our peer group. Even achieving the average salary range for schools of our size seems like a distant goal. Certainly, the size of our endowment has something to do with this. The high cost of an education at Davidson is still borne unequally by students of different income levels. As accommodating as our financial aid department is, they cannot provide the full measure of aid demonstrated by some applicants. Nevertheless, the fact remains that items like faculty salaries and computers, which make a difference in the overall educational experience, must be overlooked in order to make tuition payments.

And still, the brick walls keep going up. Davidson has proven its commitment to the quality of life of its students. Our facilities are impressive, and the services provided to students, from things as mundane as the laundry service to those as potentially vital as the Counseling Center, demonstrate a real interest in our well-being on the part of the administration and the trustees. Still, one wonders how the decision-makers view our interests. While construction projects proceed by leaps and bounds, faculty and educational resources struggle to make headway.

In truth, we are here first and foremost as students, as young men and women committed to learning. Our biggest assets in this enterprise are the expertise of our professors and the educational opportunities available to us. Davidson is admittedly an institution with limited resources. We only hope that those entrusted with these resources have a clear understanding of the mission at this school: to liberate minds. In the meantime, professors, the contracting business looks like a promising field.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors-in-chief

Is a minimum wage increase to the benefit of American workers? Bill Clinton and Al Gore have proposed increases in the minimum wage in an attempt to appear compassionate toward the supposed plight of lower-income Americans. Their populist rhetoric serves only to further their own agendas, specifically, Clinton’s search for a legacy other than scandal and Gore’s quest to further tarnish the presidency after the Philanderer-in-Chief (Rapist?-in-Chief) leaves at noon on January 20, 2001.

The most obvious myth about the minimum wage is that simply raising it would help many poor families without any detrimental effects. This is wrong. Very few who earn minimum wage (currently $5.15 per hour federally, varies by state) are the main breadwinners in their household. According to Professor Richard Burkhauser of Cornell University,Most minimum wage workers are single persons or second or third earners in non-poor families. Most Davidson students would find themselves in that category. Those few who do earn minimum wage as the head of a household actually would be penalized by the minimum wage increase. Minimum wage workers in this situation are often low-skilled or unskilled. An increase in the minimum wage would cause more expense to employers and it would force them to hire more skilled workers so they would get the most qualified worker for their money. At $6.15 per hour, an illiterate employee would be simply too expensive to employ. He or she would be let go in favor of a more educated person. It is true that employment since the last minimum wage hike has increased, but that statistic masks the fact that low-skilled workers were let go while more highly-skilled workers were hired in their place, and that the demand for workers who make well above the minimum wage has increased. This is how a minimum wage increase actually hurts many of those whom it intends to help.

Why did a recent study at the University of Wisconsin discover that welfare mothers in states that raised their minimum wage [beyond the federal level] stayed on welfare an average of 44% longer than their counterparts in states that did not raise the minimum wage? The answer is that these mothers are low-skilled workers, and many are illiterate. An employer will not pay $5.15 to an illiterate person while an educated, literate teenager is looking for the same position. A static minimum wage may erase the need for employers to differentiate between skilled and unskilled workers in hiring for appropriate positions. If minimum wage workers were able to stay in their jobs, they would gain the experience necessary for a wage increase. Census Bureau data have shown that, on average, the income of minimum wage workers increases 30% after one year of employment. A constant minimum wage would ensure that low-skilled workers would gain the experience they need to earn a wage increase, and after one year virtually all do. According to the Employment Policies Institute, a nonpartisan economic research organization in Washington, D.C., only 2.8% of workers over the age of 30 earn the minimum wage.

Still, an increase in the minimum wage appeals to persons like Al Gore. It would increase the power the federal government has over both the states and businesses. It would help him to appear compassionate and caring as a sound clip of “Al Gore supports a minimum wage increase to help working families” is played repeatedly on the nightly news. And it would gain him solid support from unions and other organizations that, like Gore, don’t bother to think before they speak. Bill Clinton, who is the major muscle behind the current effort to increase the minimum wage to $6.15 per hour, does not truly care about the plight of the unskilled working poor. He is ignoring the aforementioned facts in favor of the good sound clip approach.

The only way to help all workers—skilled and unskilled, union and management, rank-and-file and executives—is to offer a broad-range tax cut. Not targeted, not specialized, but for all. All workers deserve a tax cut. And if they do earn minimum wage, a tax cut would help them keep more of what they earn. Don’t listen when you hear how much a tax cut will “cost” the government; it won’t cost anything. The government simply would not have the pleasure of controlling that much more money, the luxury of bloating the bureaucracy, or the abandon to fund social programs at will. A tax cut is not good for Al Gore and Bill Clinton because it would erase the money they want for their ambitious, save-the-world government programs. Don’t be fooled. A tax cut is the only way to ensure that Americans—all Americans—keep more of what they earn. A minimum wage increase is just another of many examples of legislators’ hearts being in the right place while their brains are missing in action.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03
The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html