10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian Editorial

As the general election campaign heats up, the gun control debate has become a burning issue. Since casting a dramatic tie-breaking vote in favor of a Senate gun control measure last May, Al Gore has become a champion in the fight for safer gun laws. With public sentiment firmly in his corner, Gore has responded to a string of national tragedies by sponsoring legislation that would require common-sense restrictions like safety locks and criminal background checks for prospective gun buyers at gun shows.

The National Rifle Association has responded in force—raising nearly $30 million between its Institute for Legislative Action and its Political Victory Fund. But for all its fundraising prowess, the organization has shown little ability to engage in meaningful political discourse. Seemingly every statement issued over the past few weeks by Wayne LaPierre, Executive Vice-president of the Association, has been utterly laughable, if not repulsive. Their latest charge claims that President Clinton intentionally tolerates school shootings because they help him to further his political agenda. “He’s willing to accept a certain level of killing to further his political agenda,” LaPierre told The Washington Post. “And the vice-president too.” Clinton responded calling such charges “wounded rhetoric” from a “ruthlessly brutal” special interest group.

And the NRA is indeed wounded. The latest tragedy in Michigan, in which a six-year-old used an unlicensed pistol to shoot and kill a first-grade classmate, utterly undermined one of the Association’s last remaining arguments: the notion that “Guns don’t kill people, people kill people.” When six-year-olds are killing classmates, few can rationally disagree with trigger-lock safety devices that would make handguns safer, much like child-proof caps are mandated on Tylenol bottles and seat belts are required in automobiles. The National Rifle Association is quickly becoming the laughing stock of American politics. And more and more it seems, the biggest disservice they can do to themselves is to keep on talking.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON
BURGIN HARDIN

News Editors
SETH DAVIS
ANN GREGORY

Op-Ed Editor
NERA SCHWARTZ

Sports Editor
A. SPECHAR

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html. The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Offices are located on the third floor of the Union.

Fear and Loathing
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

in Washington, DC

Wanted: Hard worker willing to toil many hours for no pay at a menial job as a paper-pusher while wasting his/her life-savings on expensive housing and ridiculously-priced food. Intrigued? Look closer. I am sure that you will be surprised to know that there are, in fact, tens of thousands of people who are seeking this very type of job. Still confused? Allow me to clarify for those of you who still have cognitive reasoning abilities. This job is, well, an internship. Yes, that’s right. The internship has become the goal and bane of every college student’s life. Do you want a good job when you get out of college? You need the experience of an internship. Hoping to get a job this summer? Do more employable. The key, of course, is his gullibility. If the intern does not believe that he is gaining “experience” that will secure success later on in life, then he would not be willing to collate papers for 10 hours a day, 5 days a week. So, a national propaganda campaign ensued which combined the efforts of colleges, businesses, and parents who wanted the kids out of the house. It worked! Before they knew it, the interns were piling in. They even had to begin a screening process to determine who would be the hardest worker at the most menial of tasks. That brings us right up to the present. The present is where I am, or at leastwhere I was last time I checked. Oh, dear, I wonder where I am... Oh, never mind... As you have guessed, I am looking for an internship. And, of course, if you ever entertain the notion of graduate school... you guessed it... an internship is a vital part of your resume. I think the entire idea behind the internship came into being around the time of Reconstruction. Washington D.C., located south of the Mason-Dixon Line, was on the brink of economic collapse. Luckily, the system did not collapse and today Washington is a booming metropolis teeming with government workers inhabiting buildings no taller than the Washington Monument. How was our economy saved? The ingenious idea of the intern was born. The intern has become the modern version of an indentured servant. An intern is expected to provide his own clothing, food, and shelter. In addition, he (or she) does not expect to be paid. The intern wants to be there having been tricked into believing that the “experience” will make him better, wiser, and more experienced. As I have discovered in the past few weeks, there are plenty of opportunities for me to work for free in our nation’s capital this summer as I earn valuable “experience” through coffee-making, paper pushing, and the all-important answering-the-telephone. So be forewarned... Washington here I come!

Note: Andrew desperately needs an internship requiring neither “experience” nor “intelligence”, to fulfill his Davidson in Washington experience this summer. So, if you happen to know of an internship, from demigod to assistant of the assistant of the aide to the secretary, let him know. Also, please remember that Andrew is not a historian and any so-called facts cited here are not to be believed or taken at any value whatsoever. Finally, I would like to convey my esteemed gratitude to Arthur Gillett for providing an idea for this week’s article.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

---

Feminism in the year 2000

This past Saturday, C-SPAN covered the Kennedy Center’s program for Women’s Month featuring Gloria Steinem, Mary Tyler Moore, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman (R-NJ) in a discussion mediated by Katie Couric. At the same time, Christina Hoff Sommers, author of "Who Stole Feminism: How Women Betrayed Women," was giving a lecture on the state of women and feminism in the United States. I wondered what prompted this frankly unusually high number of programs given by and concerning women on a Saturday night. Then, I realized that perhaps “Feminism, in theory and practice, has undergone change, reorientation, splintering, and revitalization.”

To some, feminism is still a dirty word and women’s issues have no relevance to the masculine experience. Women’s Month perhaps hinders understanding in this one respect. When women’s issues are associated with a time of year, accepting that women’s issues are everyone’s issues becomes a seasonal affair. Do students at Davidson, upon seeing the large purple calendar in the hall in Chambers, or walking across Chambers’s lawn during the opening ceremony, feel the same bewilderment that I did? And was this followed by a similar epiphany, or did they continue bemusedly on to their next class or their final destination?

Women’s Month at Davidson has begun weeks of programming, events seeking to encourage informed discussion. While Christina Hoff Sommers threw about terms such as “orthodox feminism” and “equity feminism,” I also wondered how much of her audience had an appreciation of the significance of these words. The bra-burning “femi-nazi” still looms large in American culture, overshadowing the other quietly powerful aspects of feminism. Yet, feminism, in theory and practice, has undergone change, reorientation, splintering, and revitalization that belie the one-dimensional quality of the “femi-nazi” image.

This semester, Davidson has a number of classes overtly devoted to themes of feminism. The attention paid to such issues outside of the classroom, however, suffers from the combined demands of work and play. This month, this Women’s Month, optimizes its allotted time by presenting Davidson the opportunity to explore with fellow students and faculty issues of gender, economics, international and domestic policies intrinsic to women’s studies. Geared to engage, these events educate in ways that will inform beyond the month’s end, beyond accepting a conversation of scripted stereotypes.

Meredith Beattie ‘01