By Curtis HERRINGTON
THE DAVIDSONIAN Staff Writer

With the spring approaching, the men’s tennis team begins what could be a record-setting season. The Wildcats return five of six starters from last year, add three exciting freshmen, and are being led for the 27th season by head coach Jeff Frank. Frank has not had a losing season since he joined the Wildcats in 1973. The team will be led by seniors Brett Iallacci, Alex Okulski, Jake Sramek, and Travis Pritchett. “With such outstanding senior leadership, success will follow,” said Blair Easton. “They keep us in shape, I personally have never been in better shape in my life.”

“After a preseason of non-stop basketball, the team’s jump shots are better than ever, and hopefully, their tennis games will follow suit,” joked team manager Hank Bahr. However, Iallacci and Okulski complement each other with Alex’s pinpoint accuracy and Brett’s power. The juniors Whit Hanson and Billy Boykin make up a deadly No. 2 combination. Standout sophomore David Webb and freshman Chris Herrington have joined to form a great couple at the No. 3 spot. Webb has helped the newcomer master his strokes and adds, “Chris is fun to play with.” Easton is hoping to sneak into the doubles lineup. Assistant Coach Bryce Plott adds that the doubles will play a crucial role in determining the success of the team.

The team looks for Chad Phillips to step up big-time filling in as a new starter. “Chad has all the tools to make the ’Cats a poisonous snake in the Southern Conference,” said head coach Jeff Frank. Howie Winebarger, possibly the best right-handed forehand on the team, also looks strong. “His low center of gravity and small hands help him to be the great tennis player that he is,” added Boykin, who sported the best record on the team last year. The freshman Maryland native Matt Peters looks to see playing time this season. “I have been working hard all preseason and I can’t wait to get some action,” said Peters. Rounding out the freshman class is Nebraskan Leroy Butler. Butler has spent his preseason toning up in the weight room. Getting bigger and stronger has been an emphasis for Butler as well as Easton.

Coach Frank looks to captains Iallacci and Okulski to guide the team to the NCAA tournament and a high final national ranking. “With wins over 15th-ranked South Carolina and 32nd-ranked East Tennessee State, we could really raise some eyebrows,” said Frank.

A Schott of adrenaline
2000 MEN’S TENNIS SCHEDULE
By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Just about one month ago, the Wildcats received a much-needed “Schott” in the arm when a sophomore forward earned the starting nod against Western Carolina.

After stumbling to a 1-9 record in the first six weeks of 1999-2000, John Filar injected Bethany Schott into the starting lineup on Jan. 8. Schott played 34 minutes in her first-ever conference start, netting eight points, grabbing six rebounds, and helping the Wildcats to their first conference victory of the year. Since then, she has started every game and the Wildcats have stormed back into contention with a 4-4 run through Southern Conference action.

A multitude of factors can be credited with the Wildcats’ revival, but one of them is undeniably the 6-foot forward sporting No. 40.

Press RELEASE
National Collegiate Athletics Association National Office

Officials’ use of court-side replay equipment or television monitoring to determine whether to allow or disallow a last-second game-determining field goal under specific circumstances has been passed by the NCAA Men’s and Women’s Basketball Rules Committees. According to the new rule, “at the end of the second half or at the end of any overtime period, the officials shall use replay equipment or television monitoring, if available, that is located on a designated court-side table (i.e., within approximately 3 to 12 feet of the playing court) to ascertain whether a try for a field goal that will determine the outcome of a game (win, lose, tie), and is attempted at or near the expiration of the game clock, was released before the sounding of the period-ending horn.”The mechanics approved by the committees, after the officials’ initial decision on the playing court to allow or disallow such a try for a field goal, officials shall use such court-side equipment to determine whether the ball was released before or after the game-ending horn sounded. When the horn is indiscernible, the officials shall use the red light located on the backboard support (if available), as a determining factor. Should the red light on the backboard support not be available, the game clock, only if it shows a tenth-second display, shall be used to reach a decision. If none of these are conclusive, the officials’ original decision stands. This procedure may make it unnecessary to consult the official timer. Before this change, officials were prohibited from using such equipment by Rule 2-5, which stated that officials “may not use NCAA says refs can use video NC, A MA University of Delaware, agreed. www.ncada.org replay equipment for judgment calls such as the release of the ball before the sounding of the horn.” The committees made the rare mid-season change in reaction to a recent series of highly publicized close calls. “Obviously, there is no call in the game that is more important and it’s the one call that’s remembered longer than any other,” said Reggie Minton, chair of the men’s committee and coach of the United States Air Force Academy. “If we have the technology available to help us, we want to make sure we use it to get the call right.” Kate Pohlig, interim chair of the NCAA Women’s Basketball Rules Committee and associate director of athletics at the “If it is clear on the television monitor, SES: we want to allow our officials the flexibility to change the call if they can determine their initial call was incorrect,” Pohlig said. “There could be a half-dozen more games this year that come down to a last-second shot and some of those could have far-ranging implications on who our champions are,” Minton said. “We want to give our officials every tool possible at the end of the game to make accurate calls and not have a game go in the wrong direction because there is a lot of noise at the end or they didn’t see it or hear the buzzer,” Pohlig said. “I just think we needed to help our officials more,” she said. Minton emphasized that the committee is not questioning the officials’ ability but wants to help them. “We trust their judgment for 40 minutes or more and we’re not going to stop trusting it. This just makes their job a little easier.” This press release and graphic courtesy of the NCAA via its website, Mike Anderson “A major key to this turnaround has been the insertion of Bethany Schott into the lineup,” acknowledges head coach John Filar. Schott has averaged six rebounds per game as a starter, good enough for second-best on the squad and a spot among the SoCon’s leaders. “I’ve never seen anyone rebound like her,” says teammate Katy Kamp. “She just flies in there.” Kim Taylor agrees. “She’s just a great hustler.” Filar and his staff speak often about athletes playing specific roles in a team’s blueprint. As for the second-year forward from Aurora, Colorado: “Bethany Schott has probably done as great a job as anybody of knowing her role. It’s a very unselfish role. “She plays excellent post defense. She’s taken a lot of the rebounding pressure off of Katy Kamp and Jen O’Brien. And when the time is right, she steps up and hits some clutch baskets for us,” Filar praises. Case in point: January 22 against Wofford. Having spent most of the second half on the bench with four fouls, Schott attempted only two shots all game. But she nailed both of them—critical jumpers in the game’s waning minutes—to lead Davidson to a 67-62 victory over the Terriers. Wildcat assistant coach Carri Walker, who played ACC basketball during her days at Wake Forest, has high words of praise for Schott. “Even though she’s young, her work ethic is a great example to all of us. She’s so consistent in that,” says Walker. “She's a very strong post defender. We always know we can put her on the other team’s best post.” Walker describes Schott as an athlete with tremendous focus and an ability to inspire. “When someone on our team does something well, Bethany will clap her hands once really hard. I love it! She'll clap once, but then she’ll sprint back down the court and focus on the next play.” It’s those hidden things that make Schott such a tremendous asset. She carries herself with an unspoken intensity, an unabashed determination, and a good-natured demeanor—qualities attractive in any athlete. “Bethany really is an unsung hero,” says Kamp. “She’s made such a contribution since she’s been in the lineup. She’s truly a hard worker and I’ve enjoyed every day I’ve played with her.” “Bethany is just flat