_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ANN GREGORY
News Editor

“A woman is often measured by things she cannot control,” said Tiffanie Cohen Adams, an Olympic gold medalist, before an audience in the Chambers Gallery last Tuesday. “Measurements are only statistics and statistics lie.”

Adams’s appearance marked the highlight of Eating Disorder Awareness Week at Davidson. Programming for the week also included an Eating Disorder Awareness lunch and an Eating Disorder Awareness table run by the Health Advisors. Adams, who won her golds in the 1984 games, suffered a long bout with bulimia and is now a speaker and consultant. Her goals in speaking across the country are “to educate about how to make a difference” and to promote “entering into the new millennium celebrating bodies of all shapes and sizes.”

In discussing the three types of eating disorders, anorexia, bulimia, and binge eating, Adams strongly emphasized that eating disorders “are not about the food. They are about underlying emotional problems.” Adams explained that many things can trigger unhealthy eating habits, ranging from genetic predisposition to dieting-gone-awry. But, she says, these are merely “loading the gun, our culture is pulling the trigger.”

Regarding the high statistic of eating disorders on college campuses, she cited all the changes taking place in one’s life, and the occurrence of “fad bulimia” which involves the teaching and implementing of the bingeing and purging process among friends. She also showed examples of different media images, such as magazine ads, which contribute to an overly thin ideal for women and unhealthy ideals for men as well.

Adams shared with the attentive audience her own struggle with bulimia, which began in college. Her unstable family life and own perfectionism (she was disappointed with her second gold medal because she had not beaten the world record) contributed to a desire to control her weight, emphasized by her swimming coach. She described various horrors that she endured, including spitting up blood, fainting, and severe depression and distortion of reality. After a near five-year struggle, in and out of the hospital, Adams believes to have turned “tragedy into triumph.” She proudly showed the audience pictures of her family, calling her first-born child her “third gold medal.” She called upon the audience to begin to make a difference by “becoming a more constructive consumer.” By avoiding magazines and products that endorse an unhealthy body ideal, she hopes that society-at-large can begin to reduce the occurrence of eating disorders.

Davidson College’s Fire Policy: Backdraft of the Seton Hall Disaster

By Megan F. Robb
Guest Writer

Fires at universities across the country have Davidson administrators assessing our campus’s safety. A fire at Seton Hall caught the nation’s attention last month when four students at the New Jersey university were severely burned after a fire broke out in the lounge. Many students failed to exit the building, expecting that the blaring siren was merely the latest in a string of false alarms.

Davidson College’s prevention plan includes three main groups associated with the campus: Public Safety, the Davidson Fire Department, and the Residence Life Office. Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey and fire chief Wilson Sadler annually conduct a walk-through check of each building to ensure that the campus meets all fire and safety requirements. Meanwhile, the Residence Life Office trains all student employees in fire-safety management.

Many students have recently questioned the lack of sprinklers in residence halls. Older dormitories on campus are not outfitted with the fire deterrent sprinklers, but some more recently-constructed structures do contain the sprinklers. Both McKelvey and Deanna Kauffman, Assistant Director of Residence Life, have full confidence in the smoke alarms found in the dorms. Though some students complain of their sensitivity—as shower steam and aerosol sometimes trigger the alarms—RLO staff claim that this sensitivity is necessary in order to catch fires before they become uncontrollable.

Davidson informs its students of its fire policies through freshman orientation, RLO staff members, and via the Internet. The web information replaces the Red Book, which is now available solely online (it is accessed through Davidson’s website under Student Life, then Student Conduct). McKelvey plans to update and improve his department's pages in the near future. McKelvey admits that the new website format needs improvement, and the site needs to be expanded. He expects to remedy this shortcoming in the near future.Future. One of the main ways that students become aware of fire safety and the college’s policy is through fire drills that occur once every semester. McKelvey and Kauffman both said that the drills were successful and were completed with minor problems. A voice from the fire department gave a different perspective. When asked if the fire drills were run properly, Bo Fitzgerald, a 1999 Davidson graduate and firefighter at the Davidson station, responded, “They are not run properly, no, no.”

“People get kind of complacent with the way things are over there,” said Fitzgerald. McKelvey agreed, stating that Davidson is far from immune to a Seton Hall-type tragedy because many students ignore fire alarms during drills and unplanned false alarms. McKelvey estimates that fifty alarms each school year are false. Administrators believe it is important that the students treat each alarm seriously, as the Fire Department does. Students can check the Davidson website for “Do’s and Don’ts” concerning fire safety.

According to Kauffman, halogen lamps pose the greatest danger to dorms, followed closely by candles. In the Martin Court apartments last year, a student returned from Spring Break as her halogen lamp (which was in the “on” position, though it had appeared to be off) caught a box on fire. Just this month, a candle flame almost set another Martin Court apartment bathroom on fire. Kauffman said, “We’ve been very lucky” that Davidson has not had any major fires, and she urges students to reevaluate their attitudes toward fire safety.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000

Olympic gold medalist, Tiffanie Cohen Adams, discusses her struggle to overcome an eating disorder.

Two English Professors share their work at “Davidson Reads”

By Seth Davis
News Editor

Two bristle-bearded English professors, Drs. J. Gill Holland and Randy Nelson, shared stories at this year’s “Davidson Reads” program held last Thursday. After an introduction by English Department chair Dr. Cynthia Lewis, Dr. Holland shared a short story about his experiences in China. Dr. Holland, who studied Mandarin and Classical Chinese at Stanford University, has traveled extensively in China, in 1973-74, 1989, and 1995. Holland was in China during the Tiananmen Square massacre, an event that he described in an article for the Washington & Lee alumni magazine.

On Thursday night, Holland read a story about a less violent time, when he and a close friend appeared in a Chinese soap opera entitled “Why Shouldn’t We String the Great Wall with Christmas Lights?” Holland’s story resonates with references to Classical Chinese literature. Sprinkled with historical and cultural commentary, Holland’s story tells of the adventures of Old Tiger and Arthur, two men picked to appear in a soap opera alongside the beautiful Chinese actress Laughing Snow. With their driver, aptly named Driving Man, at the wheel, these men experience a night to remember in the K’unlun Hotel. Holland also read from his newly published translations of Edvard Munch’s journals. Munch is best known for his painting “Scream.” Munch’s account of his first kiss engendered some laughter in the crowd.

Dr. Randy Nelson, whose work has recently been recognized with several major awards, was the second reader on Thursday night. Nelson’s story “Cutters” was awarded the Carson McCullers Award, the highest award a piece of unpublished fiction can receive in America. Additionally, Nelson won the Frank O’Connor Award for his “River Story.” These two stories were the first that Nelson ever submitted to contests.

Nelson began by reading from “Cutters.” The main character in this story is Emily, a woman who cuts herself with glass. She is a newspaper photographer who has won a Pulitzer Prize for her photograph of a fifteen-year-old member of The Holiness Church, a place of worship for snake handlers. Using flashbacks and precise, powerful imagery, Nelson develops the character of Emily.

The second piece Nelson read was a tour de force in only 1200 words. Entitled “Abduction,” it describes a tabloid reporter who undergoes a character development during an interview with a young woman who claims to have been abducted by aliens. This year marked Nelson and Holland’s second appearance at “Davidson Reads,” an annual program in which Davidson professors share their talents with the student body and public.