Rusk, KS go to bat for Habitat
By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Members of Rusk Eating House and Kappa Sigma Fraternity caught flies and circled bases for ten hours on Saturday, October.
Participating in their thirteenth annual Homeruns for Habitat, these men and women played one hundred innings of softball to raise
money for Davidson’s Habitat for Humanity. All proceeds will go towards building a house in the Davidson community. Though the
event was a success, both Rusk and KS are still counting on student support to reach their fundraising goals.

Ida Wainschel ’01 expressed pleasure at the turnout from both groups. “People played in rotations, but a few of us
have been out here the whole time,” she explained. Adam Yarbrough ’02 agreed. “People are in and out all day,
so it’s hard to tell, but [the turnout] is pretty good.” A few recent alumni even made the trip for
the game. Rob Lindenberg ’00 and Fred Lowrance ’99 both showed up for their fraternity’s fundraiser.

In spite of the great participation, Wainschel lamented this year’s level of contributions. “We didn’t raise as much money this
year,” she remarked. As she explained, each year they print t-shirts for the event and sell advertising space on them
to local businesses. This year, however, Rusk and Kappa Sig did not hold the event as early as they have
in previous years, due mainly to an extremely full calendar of events for the month of September. “By the time
we contacted them, many companies had reached their contribution limits,” noted Wainschel.

Fortunately, the sponsoring organizations have other ways of raising money. “If we sell all the t-shirts we printed and hold
a raffle, we could still make about 500 dollars,” asserted Tara Davidson ’02. She encouraged interested students, faculty, or members
of the community to contact her, Wainschel, or Jeremy Schwartz if they would like to support their efforts.

Asked about high points for the day, Wainschel recalled an incident in the 80th inning when their bat broke. “Jason
Hild hit the last ‘Homerun for Habitat’ with it as the top half of the aluminum bat we’d been using
all day flew out into the infield towards first base.”

Tim Boswell ’01 enjoyed the scenery when the game got underway. “It was a kick to be out here at
6 a.m. It was cold, the fog was down on the field, and you couldn’t see anything.” The softball marathon
finally ended around 4 p.m. Saturday afternoon. As the final out was made, players cheered and congratulated each other on
another successful fundraiser.

Erin Berry

Boo, from page 1

“Do you have watermelon? I’ve been dying for watermelon ever since I had to give one to my friend.” Other
children raced down the hall with less discretion, throwing a fist into each bowl before sprinting to the next. “We’re
spoiling ourselves,” explained a vampire matter-of-factly while dipping her hand into a bowl of Dum-Dums.

All who participated felt that the evening was a success. Parents appreciated the safe, controlled environment in which their children
could gather candy. Domagalski reports that from parents, “We got a million thank-you’s and lots of kudos.” Students valued the
rare opportunity for contact with children. “The girls on my hall were really excited about doing it because they don’t
get to see kids much,” explained resident advisor Erin Bailey ’02. But the children appreciated the evening most of all.
As the soldier exclaimed to his younger sister, “Are we loaded or what?”

GRILLED VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE - VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP - SWEET POTATO
FRIES - CAESAR SALAD - Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE - VEGETABLE SOUP

Wednesday, November 1, 2000

The Photography Club

The Photography Club announced the opening of the brand new darkroom located in Chambers North Basement. In celebration, a series
of instructional sessions on basic photography techniques and darkroom procedure. The club has purchased new cameras—one 35mm fully manual and...one
1970s Polaroid—which are now available for members' use. The club hopes the darkroom will begin a very productive year for
photographic arts at Davidson, culminating with a photography show in the spring. For more information about the club and its
activities, contact Drew Devore (drdevore), Kim D’Ardenne (kidardenne), Sarah Wines (sawines), or Lamar Clarkson (laclarkson).

SAE
The SAE fraternity attended the YMCA Halloween Carnival on October 31st. The brothers helped with Halloween activities for the kids
in the area starting at four in the afternoon, lasting until 10 that evening. Earlier this semester, the fraternity also
participated in Hunger Awareness Week, including attending the Oxfam dinner as well as giving the money toward one meal to
help prevent hunger.

Project Life
Project Life Ice Cream Social is this Thursday, Nov. 2. Starting at 9 PM in the 900 Room, students can
get free ice cream and hear how Project Life was started at Davidson College. Founder David Lindsey ’93 will be
there to tell his story dealing with a bone marrow transplant. Other speakers include the parent of a Davidson student,
a current senior, and a faculty member who have experienced bone marrow transplantation. Project Life will also sell T-shirts to
help raise funds. All questions should be directed to Mary Kathryn (x6014) or Benjamin Ferrell (x5386).

Anthropology Society
Dr. Jerome Handler from the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities visited Davidson this past Tuesday, October 31. He gave a
talk entitled, “Survivors of the Middle Passage: Autobiographical Accounts by Enslaved Africans in British America,” in the 900 Room. Handler
is a preeminent scholar in the field of black diasporic studies. Earlier that day, a luncheon was held in Vail
Commons for students with a particular interest in speaking with Dr. Handler more personally.

Alternative Medicine
Phil Reid, the head admissions counselor at the National College of Naturopathic Medicine, spoke to a crowd this past Monday
evening about obtaining a degree in Naturopathic Medicine. Reid’s visit was the first visit by a Naturopathic Medical College to
Davidson.

SGA
The SGA representatives from the freshman and sophomore classes have organized a mixer that will be held on Friday, November
3. It will be held in the Union Outpost on Patterson Court from 5:30 - 9:00 PM. All freshmen and
sophomores are invited. Free pizza and karaoke will be available for all attendees.

OLAS
OLAS has recently concluded their celebration of Hispanic History Month with the celebration of “Dia de los Muertos,” or “Day
of the Dead,” the Hispanic equivalent of Halloween. During the month of October, OLAS has sponsored a number of events
aimed at educating the Davidson students about Latino culture. The celebration also included a trip to the Mint Museum, a
Latin Dance Workshop, a workshop on making an altar, and the “Dia de los Muertos” celebration.

CANCUN • JAMAICA • BAHAMAS
PANAMA CITY BEACH • DAYTONA BEACH
S. PADRE ISL. • SOUTH BEACH • KEY WEST
EARN CASH & FREE TRIPS!
CAMPUS REP. POSITIONS AVAILABLE!
icpt.com
For Details & Reservations Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS @ 1-800-327-6013

Main Street Books will host Orson Scott Card for a reception and book signing on November 4 from 5 PM
to 6 PM at the store. On hand will be his new book Sarah, the wife of Abraham, the first
in a series of historical novels about notable women in the book of Genesis. He is best known for his
science fiction (Ender’s Game, and Seventh Son). He is the only author to have won the Hugo and Nebula awards
for best novel two years in a row. He has published more than 40 titles. For more information call 892-6841.

Main Street Books
126 South Main Street
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE.
Bet you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!
Eat-in Take-out
The Soda Shop
896-7743
Since 1951
Sat-Thur 8-8
Fri 8-9
104 S. Main St.
Davidson, NC
