The Davidsonian

By CHRISTINA COOKE
Staff Writer

The art exhibit currently in the union lobby engages its viewers, but it leaves many at a loss for interpretations. Even the artist, Mike Lai ‘02, finds himself struggling to classify his pieces. “Are they drawings? Are they sculptures? Are they even art? I don’t know what to call them,” he said.

Lai completed the works during an advanced drawing class he took last spring. His professor, Cort Savage, recalls that Lai’s pieces “partially came out of a response to some work done by a South Carolina artist, Jill Walters, who we saw in the Van Every Gallery last year. Although Mike’s works are very different, that was part of the genesis of it.”

“I think the works are really beautiful and a wonderful example of inventing a medium to create the work,” he said.

The six pieces range in size from two by three-foot rectangles to giant strips that stretch from floor to ceiling. To create most of them, Lai placed everyday materials—including hair he gathered from barbershop floors and objects he rescued from garbage cans—between two nearly transparent layers of tissue paper. He coated some of the tissue paper with shellac and stained others with tea leaves.

“I always wanted people to look at the pieces from far away,” explains Lai. “It’s trying to make something beautiful out of ugly things.”

Though Lai created each of the works using a similar process, each one has characteristics that distinguish it from the others. Rusty nails hammered into the wall run the length of one work, and twigs nestled horizontally between the two layers of tissue paper run the length of another. Lai has shaped three of the larger hangings like irregular rectangles, and one like a sprawling continent on a map. One of his two smaller pieces consists of two overlapping sheets of paper, and the other consists of a single sheet decorated with a swirling, dotted design.

Lai does not start his pieces with the finished product in mind. Instead, he innovates as he works. “The whole thing is about the process,” he explains. “It is pretty much experimentation. Ideas just come along as I work.” But sometimes, the ideas come when he least expects them. Lai remembers that when he created the small, grayish piece, “I was burning it purposefully, and the whole thing just caught on fire. The only thing I could find was my own portfolio, and I just smashed it down on my work” to suffocate the flames. Lai incorporated the accident into the piece: “It’s part of the process—you know?”

The torn paper, rusty nails, and natural coloring give the works a sense of age. Lai explains, “I tried to give them the feeling that they have been through something, that they have a history.”

Lai’s art history professor Shaw Smith notes the aura of the hangings. “There’s a feeling of organic life that’s left only in a fragment—skin, bone. It’s a reminder of the fragility of life, but not in a melancholy way—in a celebratory way. It’s sort of a huge gesture of aliveness that’s no longer alive, but still asserts itself,” he observes. “They’re monumental and they’re assertive, but they’re fragile at the same time.”

Everyone who passes through the Union lobby reacts differently to Lai’s pieces. The hangings mystify many viewers. “I don’t know what it is. I don’t know what it’s trying to say,” confesses Aravind Dileepan ‘03. Lai’s craftsmanship impresses other viewers. Will Graham ‘02 admires Lai’s ingenuity—the manner in which Lai “takes everyday things and makes them look so interesting.” Savage recognizes the elusiveness of Lai’s hangings. “I find them to be elegant pieces that deny interpretation in the way that nature does.”

Lai plans to continue developing his technique. “I don’t feel the project is complete yet. I’m going to go further with the same idea.” The six hangings will remain in the union lobby until Sunday, Sept. 31.

Train rocks Belk Arena, displays musical diversity

By Matt Whittle
Staff Writer

Saturday night, the student body gathered for the first big concert of the year as the homecoming festivities culminated in the John M. Belk Arena with a performance by the San Francisco-based band Train. Most famous for the hit single "Meet Virginia," the five-member group performed all the standards from its best-selling self-titled debut album. They also ambitiously introduced the student body to several tracks from their upcoming CD, which is scheduled for release on Halloween of this year.

Surprisingly to many who were familiar only with Train’s most famous songs, the band showed quite a bit of diversity in its performance. Driven primarily by Patrick Monahan’s vocals and occasionally unusual dancing, along with several powerful solos by guitarist Jimmy Stafford, the band played a set consisting of 13 of its own songs and two well-chosen covers: Led Zeppelin’s "Ramble On" and The Doors’ "Light My Fire." Perhaps the most surprising moment came when...All of the band members walked off the stage except drummer Scott Underwood, who remained and entertained the audience with a drum solo/light show. The most enthusiastic response came when Train ended its first set with "Meet Virginia," the song which has received by far the most radio time. The crowd even continued to sing the final verse loudly when Monahan stopped, receiving a bow of gratitude from the lead singer. The fact that Belk Arena was relatively empty seemed to bother Monahan little, and the band played an entertaining hour-long set for the students who came, making many new fans and showing everyone the full range of its musical style.

Sure, you can quit, or stick around and learn. In Army ROTC, you'll develop skills you can use in the real world—thinking on your feet, staying focused under pressure, taking charge. Give it a shot. Visit the Army ROTC department, we'll stick around for you. ARMY ROTC: Unlike any other college course. Two and three-year scholarship opportunities available. For additional information, visit our office at Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165.

From prior page: President dedicated the house. The unveiling of Mrs. Blackwell’s portrait crowned the event. Presidents Emeriti Samuel R. Spencer ’40 and John Kuykendall ’59 did the honors. Spencer noted Mrs. Blackwell’s 54 years of service to the Davidson community. “Nancy holds the record now and I doubt she will ever be surpassed,” he said. Kuykendall recalled being taken into the Blackwell home by Nancy and her husband Herbert just after his own graduation and revealed that Herbert sold him the wedding ring on Missy Kuykendall’s hand. John Hobart ’51, the class secretary, was a classmate of Mrs. Blackwell’s from first grade to high school. He called her a “unique and special person” and said her extraordinary commitment to the school and the town “speaks to her character and willingness to give on behalf of things that are important in the Davidson community.” Bobby Vagt, speaking after the ceremony, called Mrs. Blackwell “the UR - the Ultimate Resource.” Tongue in cheek, he commented that “she’s a little irritating in that her memory is twenty times better than mine!” Indeed, Mrs. Blackwell was able to connect a name and personal details with almost everyone who waited in line to give her a hug and thank her for all she’s done for the school. “I’m sure you think you don’t deserve all this,” Darden said in her testimonial; clearly, over seventy years of Davidson alumni disagree. “In terms of what she does and how she does it, she’s a rock,” summarized Vagt.

A pleasant surprise from nowhere: Angry Salad
By Tuomas Cullen, Arts & Living Editor

Angry Salad will never make national radio, nor will they ever sell out the country’s biggest venues. But that’s okay. They don’t need to do that to be successful. This confidence is exemplified on their self-titled record that plays the band’s talent in a cohesive, inviting manner. The album opens with the simply perfect “The Milkshake Song.” The drum provides a funky beat that perfectly complements the strum of the guitar. Next up is the energetic “How Does it Feel to Kill,” which opens with a soft piano intro that flows nicely into a period of rocking out that serves as the rhythm of the song. Not many bands can successfully cover a song and transfer it to record. Yet, the Salad, as I will commonly refer to them, choose to cover Nena’s “99 Red Balloons,” and they do it with ease and skill. In lieu of keyboards, the band places a charged guitar into the song to allow people who are not 80’s conscious to identify with it. Normally, covers leave you feeling unsettled if not nauseated, yet the Salad does it quite well. The best song on the record is easily “Coming to Grips,” which deals with a guy getting dumped because his girlfriend is a lesbian. Granted, that stuff’s not my bag, but credit must be given for originality. Not only do the lyrics shine, but the chorus is also sure to get lodged into your head. The beauty of the Salad is that their lyrics are simple, rather than the stupid, overly poetic lyrics that many artists fall prey to nowadays. I have chosen to leave the band members anonymous because you knowing their names and instruments will not enhance your appreciation of their music. They remain nameless because that’s what they are, nameless. But that’s not necessarily a bad thing. The guys in Angry Salad know what they are doing and know that it is good. They shift music with the best of them as well as creating inviting songs with sweet melodies. Not only do they show you how to rock, but they can also take it slow if necessary. You'll probably never hear of Angry Salad again, but who cares. They’ll still be good.