THE Davidsonian

Hypnotist Michael Anthony amazes 900

By Jerry BENDER
Special Contributor

It’s Saturday night in the 900 Room. Hundreds of Davidson students are sardined into the limited seating areas on both levels, watching and listening. Lionel Richie’s “You Are So Beautiful to Me” is playing in surround sound. Freshman Stephen Clugston is on stage, slow dancing with a broom. He closes his eyes as he sways, hugging the broom tight, and moving his hands down to - oh yes - its butt.

Mr. Anthony, your 5th Grade Teacher

Michael Anthony, a Canadian, is dressed black on black on black. Black tee shirt (short sleeves - very important!), black jeans, and black buckle shoes. Anthony has no distinguishing features. His black hair complements his dark complexion and black five o’clock shadow. He appears flawless - a TV character of a man. The gold chain on his neck supports a small swirling structure that you don’t want to stare at for too long. The man is, in a word, enigmatic.

“When you open your eyes,” he says to his sleeping line-up of thirteen volunteers on stage, “you will acknowledge me as Mr. Anthony, your 5th grade teacher.” SNAP. The volunteers wake up and sit up straight in their folding chairs. Anthony smiles: Good morning.

“Okay class, we will be doing Quantum Physics today,” he enunciates, as if the group had never heard the phrase. He saunters over to freshman Clinton Rickards, who is visibly disturbed at the prospect of learning Physics in the 5th grade. “Don’t give me attitude,” Anthony patronizes Rickards. When Mr. Anthony turns his back to write on the imaginary board, the class will, as instructed, throw wild faces and gestures at him. When he turns back around, they will scurry for their seats, and innocently regain posture. “Did I see something?” he asks the class. They shake their heads violently. The crowd laughs out of disbelief — it’s working.

The Crowd Gets Naked

“Absolutely insane things happen up here!” Anthony warns the crowd before calling up volunteers. He may as well have promised it. Senior Melissa Spooner discovers that she has eleven fingers because she cannot remember the number six. She stands on stage, Anthony as her coach, struggling trying to count from one to ten, skipping six. It is upsetting. The crowd loves it. Anthony turns freshman Dan O’Neill’s belt into a snake. He convinces the volunteers that he is naked. They groan and turn their heads. “It’s okay,” he says once his clothes are back on. “It’s okay - because now, every single member of

Best in Show cleverly parodies psycho dog lovers

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

I think if I tried to exhibit my dog at a dog show, he would try to bite me. And I wouldn’t blame him: dog shows, which rear their ugly heads from time to time on television, are really just beauty pageants. It’s all about who has the best walk, the best hair, and the most psycho “mommies and daddies”.

Best in Show, Christopher Guest’s film about preparation and competition at the Mayflower Dog Show, is full of psycho mommies and daddies. There are the Swans, Meg (Parker Posey) and Hamilton (Michael Hitchcock), who think their champion weimaraner, Beatrice, has been scarred by witnessing them have sex. Of course, they take her to therapy. Gerry (Eugene Levy) and Cookie (Catherine O’Hara) Fleck own Winkie, a Norwich terrier. Gerry literally has two left feet, and Cookie is...well, to quote Austin Powers, she’s the village bicycle. Scott (John Michael Higgins) and Stefan (Michael McKean) met at a dog show a few years back and have since fallen in love. Together, they have raised Miss Agnes, a shih tzu who is almost as pampered and primped as her phalli-obsessed, kimono-wearing “mommy,” Scott.

There are a few other, less-than-sane dog owners, including Sheri Ann Ward Cabot (Jennifer Coolidge, the M.I.L.F. from American Pie) who dresses and speaks as intelligently as Anna Nicole Smith, and Harlan Pepper (Christopher Guest) who studies ventriloquism intensively. Also, stealing the spotlight in the last third of Best in Show, Fred Willard stars as commentator Buck Laughlin, who is as annoying as Bob Costas and as disturbing as Marv Albert’s bedroom antics. He deserves a supporting Oscar nomination.

Christopher Guest starred in and wrote the original mockumentary This is Spinal Tap, and established himself as the king of the genre with his 1996 masterpiece Waiting for Guffman. Lacking the memorable characters and dialogue of Guest’s previous film, Best in Show falls short of Guffman. Yet, when compared to most comedies this year, Best in Show - currently playing at The Manor in Charlotte - comes as a refreshing change from films such as The Ladies Man and The Replacements.

Grade: B+the audience is completely naked as well.” The hypnotized pack flirts between laughing at us and covering their eyes. “I felt like covering up my privates, but then I realized, Hey, my clothes are still on,” says an embarrassed crowd member. Clinton Rickards grows more emphatic each time Anthony addresses him by the wrong name. “MY NAME IS CHA-CHA! CHA-CHA! C-H-A-C-H-A!” Rickards vehemently corrects him. “Chad?” mocks Anthony. For the moment, it appears that Rickards is going to punch our host. Instead, he rolls his eyes and inhales deeply. “Cha-Cha,” he asserts. “Okay, Ringo!” “Cha-Cha!”

Sensual Teasing

In time, Anthony will distort all five senses for the group on stage. “My senses were magnified tenfold,” admits senior Melody Cadogan. But none of the appropriate materials are available to ignite such senses. “I could taste the vinegar, smell the aftershave, hear the snake, feel the warmth of the sun, and see the handkerchief,” Cadogan continues. “It was like I was in a dream state.”

Confessional

What were they thinking up there? Did they really see the crowd naked? Was everything really going on? “I was sooo relaxed,” says sophomore Suzanne Francis, surprised by “the control, the suggestive power he had over us.” Francis recalls the 5th grade classroom bit as the most convincing portion for her. “I felt a very strong dislike for him,” she says with playful seriousness. “I was compelled to misbehave like I was in 5th grade.” And the guy who slow danced with the broom? “I saw that it was a ‘broom,’” Clugston shrugs, “but I was attracted to it; I wanted to dance with it.”

Sophomore Maria Tardugno recalls sitting in the crowd with Senior Christopher Brantley while Brantley was hypnotized. Anthony had sent Brantley out into the crowd with the following instructions: Every time Anthony lifted the mic stand onto the stage, Brantley was to approach the platform and preach to the audience about how the whole production was fake. Tardugno sat silent next to the unshakeable Brantley. “He was very serious and wouldn’t talk,” she says. Finally, someone asked Brantley what was going on. “And he just went off,” explains Tardugno. “He said, ‘Oh my gosh, this is complete B.S. I can’t believe you guys are laughing - stop laughing!’ He did not crack a smile the whole time.” When Brantley returned to the stage to preach to the audience, Suzanne Francis lost it. Francis explains, “It was the part where the whole audience was naked, and Chris Brantley came up on stage - he was naked too!”

The dollar metaphor

Michael Anthony stands behind a table afterwards to perform magic tricks before a small group of students. He is only slightly sweating after the ninety-minute show, and he still has the energy to wow us. In his mini magic show, he guides four half-dollars in his right hand straight over to his left, one at a time. He is still wearing short sleeves. When the 900 Room crew is packed and ready to leave, Anthony holds us back: “Ah, I’ll do one more,” he smiles, studying the crowd. We are drooling. “Because you care.” He folds Justin Perkinson’s dollar four times and unfolds it to reveal a completely disfigured dollar of the same texture. He lets the crowd touch it, then folds it back into its original form.

Citrus offers great food, trendy atmosphere - but at a price

By ANNIE SNIDER Special Contributor

At first glance, the new Citrus restaurant certainly does not stand out from the string of expensive cafes in the Lake Norman area. But as soon as you walk in, you’ll know why their smoothies are worth the fortune that they charge. Located in an upscale brick shopping center off Exit 28, Citrus’ funky atmosphere is what makes it so special. You could almost compare it to Starbucks, but while every Starbucks across the country has the exact same overstuffed chairs and checkerboard coffee tables, Citrus is entirely unique. From the lampshades covered in dried orange slices to the collection of antique blenders, you won’t find anything like it.

Clearly health conscious, the highlight of Citrus’ menu is a selection of vitamin-fortified smoothies and shakes. Enough to fill you for an entire meal (goodness knows it’ll cost you the same), their shakes are absolutely mouth-watering. If you’re still hungry for a full meal, be warned: the prices only go up. But if you’re looking for a break from Commons, or just something a little out of the ordinary, your money will be well spent. The menu offers a wide range: anything from a slight twist on the ordinary grilled cheese sandwich to an extensive collection of burritos. My advice: take a friend, fall back into the comfy retro chairs, and enjoy some good conversation and the original atmosphere.