THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000
FEATURES

Honor Code produces mixed results
By Susan VEAR
Features Writer

The new Cat Card system in Baker. Not being able to buy a sandwich in the Union before it’s made.
Rules we consider a breach of the trust we expect when we sign the honor code. But do we really
appreciate the freedoms the honor code allows?

“At Davidson, the honor code is all-encompassing; this school is founded on the principle of honor, and we probably take
for granted many of its daily benefits,” said Thomas McElveen, a past Student Solicitor for the Honor Council. Consider, for
example, the take-home review. The freedom to take a review when you want, where you want, in the surroundings you
want. This is not a freedom found at many other places of higher learning, even those with an honor code.
Margi Brooks, a freshman at Duke, found it a novelty when her French professor, who wasn’t going to be able
to make it to class, “gave [her] an unsealed envelope on Wednesday” with the quizzes for Friday.

And what you really may not appreciate is the fairness with which the honor council runs the trials. The object
is not to gang up against the defendant. Instead, “the most important objective is to get all pertinent information on
the table for the honor council to consider,” said McElveen. “In order to achieve this, the Defense Advisors and Student
Solicitors often must work together instead of against each other.”

But let’s face it. The honor code doesn’t always work. You can see five one-dollar bills tacked up in Chambers
and then run straight into a sign about a stolen VCR at the library. What’s going wrong? Obviously, 100% of
the student body is not following the honor code. If they were, we wouldn’t have any of these issues. But
what can we do to fix it?

“I think that any time a student has been found guilty of an honor code violation, the rest of the
student body should be alerted,” said McElveen. But would that truly increase the effectiveness of the honor code? At the
University of Richmond, when someone is found guilty of an honor code violation, it is “usually pretty public. When someone
breaks the honor code... the results of their case may be published in the Collegian,” said John Presser, a sophomore
there.

At Davidson, how many of us truly notice or even look for that tiny little box of vague violations and
general punishments? How much of an effect can that have on the student body if nobody reads it? The question
is also how much people fear breaking the honor code? Expulsion can be a hefty punishment, but would shame and
embarrassment further deter possible violators? Presser says that due to the publicity a violation can get, “violating the honor code
is about the worst possible thing [a student can do] at this school.”

But would that public shame work here at Davidson? “I believe that the students who work hard under the code
should know when a fellow student steps out of line. If I share a class with someone who has been
found guilty of cheating, I sure want to know so I can move away from that person,” said McElveen. “I
believe that ‘full disclosure’ would serve as a powerful deterrent to cheating.” McElveen makes the point that this “full disclosure”
system could be argued with a right to confidentiality argument. However, he says, “there is a simple answer to this
argument: if you signed the honor code, you don’t cheat, so you shouldn’t have to worry about any embarrassment or
shame. If you can’t handle that, then don’t come to Davidson.”

Honor system enjoys storied 163-year history
By SHELLEY Conroy
Features Writer

We all value the freedom of self-scheduled exams. We’ve all studied for take-home reviews. We all know the significance and
prevalence of the Honor Code here at Davidson. But do we know the history of this time-honored tradition? Do we
know how the Honor Code came to be such an integral part of life here at Davidson or how it
evolved into the system we have here today? When we enroll at Davidson, we sign the Honor Code and commit
ourselves to its principles.of academic integrity. During Freshmen Orientation, we hear from the administration and the members of the Honor
Council about the workings and importance of the Honor System here at our school. But, most likely, very few people
are aware of the history of the Honor Code and its evolution to its present state. A 1966 brochure outlining
the principles of the Honor Code also includes a synopsis of the history of the Honor Code at Davidson. According
to the brochure, the Honor Code was first enacted for two reasons. The faculty felt that a sense of distrust
for the students only fostered the “rebellious spirit” they feared and were attempting to dissuade. The brochure also points out
that “the caliber of the men in the student body was taken into consideration and it was believed that these
men understood personal responsibility.”

Originally, if a trial was needed, the entire class convened and voted on the matter. This system, however, proved to
be ineffective and lacked definitive authority. The first attempt at a written Honor Code also proved ineffective because its provisions
were far too broad and loose-ended. The Honor Code as we know it today, with its four components of lying,
stealing, cheating, and failure to report such offenses, was designed in 1924. Those provisions that fell outside of the four
stipulations were compiled into the Student Body Regulations, most likely a precursor to the Code of Responsibility.

Until 1958, the Student Council was both legislator and judiciary of the Honor Code. Some members, however, felt that the
judicial function should be delegated to another body that would serve “to educate freshmen and keep the student body as
a whole conscious of the Honor System, to investigate possible violations, to bring to trial those suspected of violations of
the Honor System, and to administer justice.” And so was the creation of the Honor Council.

Faculty members, staff discuss Honor Code
By Kendra Berner
Features Writer

Though we trumpet the Honor Code as the crux of life at Davidson College, students and faculty have wide-ranging views
on the actual impact and effectiveness of this pledge. Upon talking with some of Davidson’s faculty, I found that they
hold the Code in high regard; but not just the Code itself, the use of the Code and the effect
that it has on their relationships with students. How is this possible? Why does our Honor Code work? Many schools
have honor codes, but few are strong enough that students can leave their doors open, professors can give unproctored exams
and you can expect that if you lose something, it will turn up within days.

According to Dr. Joe Gardner of the theater department, “People tend to live up or down to the expectations of
them. Since our academic expectations are high, it is appropriate that we match those with high expectations of personal conduct.”
Dr. Peter Hess of economics also makes reference to expectations, “We start with the assumption that we will abide by
the honor code and therefore don’t look for violations. This is a reinforcement; the Code becomes self-perpetuating.” The circular explanation
goes like this: A professor trusts me to take a take-home, timed, closed book review, I don’t breach that trust,
and he continues to trust me.

While faculty praise the honor students exhibit in the classroom, several commented that these honorable values should be just as
prevalent in all aspects of life. Kurt Holmes, Assoc. Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life, says, “I truly
believe that the Honor Code should go beyond the words, not be limited by the text.” In making the case
for the wider-sweeping code, Holmes argues, “It should be about living an honorable life, not meeting the standards of the
Honor Code... There are many areas which I believe fall into an ‘honorable lifestyle’ category that students do not feel
compelled to support.” “The rumor is that the honor code is only about academics,” Dr. Denham lamented.

The Honor Code is fragile, and it depends on the entire Davidson community. Here is a thought from Dr. Gardner,
“We all need to remind ourselves of its liberating force and how it empowers us to do and be our
best, and those reminders should exist constantly in the way we treat each other.”

Shaheen Counts
