Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

2 sa _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2000

Learning, from page 1.

an incredible gift—an incredible ability to think outside the box. Students with learning disabilities are commonly very creative and because
of their creativity, they can offer fresh new insights to Davidson Campus. However, either because of their gifts or because
of their challenges, many students with learning disabilities face difficult challenges—both academically and socially. “We're all alone here,” he says.
Gravel describes having been the butt of well-intentioned jokes from friends and classmates alike. “I laugh it off, because I’ve
dealt with it all my life. But deep down inside, it makes us feel different.”

Even the term “learning disability” suggests that such students are incapable of keeping up with their peers. But a college
pamphlet describes learning disabilities as central nervous system disorders that affect individuals “with normal to above-average intelligence.”

A learning disability does not affect an individual’s internal thought and deduction processes, explains Gravel, but rather their abilities to
harmonize with the outside world. “It’s a lot like being near- or far-sighted,” says Gravel, “if you don’t account for
it, you can’t focus on the same point as people around you.”

The effects of learning disabilities transcend beyond the classroom. In a pamphlet entitled “The Other Sixteen Hours,” the Orton Dyslexia
Society describes a multitude of potential problems with peers and at home. Some of these are deep-rooted self-confidence issues that
arise from early-education struggles, while others are just plain everyday inconveniences. The pamphlet describes a student who once received a
perfect score on the Graduate Record Exam in mathematics, but could not remember his best friends’ phone numbers.

Gravel hopes this panel will serve to enlighten all students and staff at Davidson. “We hope that this panel will
help students and faculty appreciate the challenge and understand the gifts of those of us with learning disabilities.”

present.

A specific impairment in word recognition skills and reading comprehension that significantly interferes with academic achievement or daily living activities
requiring reading skills. Oral reading is characterized by slow, halting reading, word phrase omissions, distortions and word substitution. Deficits in
expressive language and sound discrimination may also be present.

Source: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, American Psychiatric Association

Marked by inappropriate degrees of inattention, impulsivity and hyperactivity. It may appear as inability to stay focused on task for
average amounts of time, impulsive behavior, speaking out in class, difficulty with organizing work, inability to focus and complete tests
and/or homework, difficulty following directions.

Source: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,

Students help repair Floyd’s destruction in Princeville

By Casey Sams
Staff Writer

It’s been six months since Hurricane Floyd ravaged eastern North Carolina, but the damage has yet to be repaired.

Amidst the destruction, however, one positive byproduct has appeared—a helping hand that has reached across the boundaries of race and
age: people volunteering money, supplies, and time to help those in trouble.

Davidson College contributed several truckloads worth of supplies to ease the shortage. But a handful of Davidson students and physical
plant employees have taken their efforts a step farther: rebuilding a hurricane-thrashed house in Princeville, N.C.

In 1985, Princeville became one of the first incorporated African-American towns in the country. One house in this community was
struck particularly hard by the winds and rain of the hurricane. Five generations of women called this one-story brick house
their home. But for ten days, four feet of water soaked the home’s interior—ruining floors and walls and entrenching the
home with mold and mildew.

The state government offered a small disaster relief package, but the aid was insufficient to restore the inhabitable edifice. But
a handful of students and staff members from North Carolina Wesleyan and Davidson College stepped up to the challenge of
restoring the home.

Davidson’s efforts have been spearheaded by Gwen Gardner, the bookstore manager, Ruth Pittard and Rosie Molinary of the Community Service
office, and Irwin Brawley of the physical plant.

Those four, plus ten other staff members and about 20 students have given up at least four weekends to make
the renovation successful, leaving Friday afternoon and not returning until late Sunday night.

Until just three weeks ago, the house had not even completely dried. Since that time, the heating and air conditioning
has been installed, the floors are down, and the walls and sheetrock are about to be put up. Despite the
short amount of time spent on this project, the work is being completed with an astonishing alacrity.

The work team is planning one final trip to Princeville, over the weekend of March 17 and 18.

The residents of Princeville would like to extend their heartfelt thanks to the generous efforts of the college’s physical plant
staff.

Many helpful hands are needed for the completion of the house, and anyone interested in helping for the weekend can
contact Rosie Molinary at x2298.

we throw all kinds of obstacles at you. tuition isn’t one of them.

WE COME TO YOU!

FREE IN-HOME/OFFICE CONSULTATIONS, FREE DELIVERY, FREE SYSTEM SETUP ON ALL SYSTEMS! GUARANTEED LOW PRICES!

CALL US AT

(704) 662-6650

OR VISIT OUR WEB PORTAL AT:

WWW.HANDTECH.COM/FCCOM
EMAIL: FCCOM@HANDTECH.COM

Sure, we'll have you climbing walls. But if you qualify for a 2- or 3-year scholarship, tuition’s one obstacle you
won't have to worry about. Talk to an Army ROTC rep. And get a leg up on your future.

For details visit our office at Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165. Two and three year scholarship opportunities available.
