4 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2000

Dance Ensemble performance captures the art of movement

BY Setu Davis
Special Contributor

Havelock Ellis once wrote, “Dancing is the loftiest, the most moving, the most beautiful of the arts, because it is
no mere translation or abstraction from life; it is life itself.” The Davidson Dance Ensemble’s Fall Concert summed up one
of the most amazing aspects of dance: the ability of movement, in a single moment, to capture essential truths of
thought and observation. In watching dance, we watch ourselves observing and thinking about ourselves and the world. Dance does not
simply represent these actions - it is these actions.

One example of the art of dance as observation and thought was the last piece of the concert, entitled “A
Weathered Bowl.” This piece was composed of four dances, with each dance representing one of the four elements: earth, wind,
water, and fire. “Fire” refuted my expectations. Instead of striving for quick, crackling movements, the dancers captured the slow burn
and swirl of living flame. At the same time, the movements of fire went beyond a representation of how we
observe fire to an expression of how thought grapples with observation and hammers out metaphor. As metaphor, “Fire” expressed struggle
and passion, as in the phrase “to go through the fire” or in the word “fiery.”

In her book The Phenomenology of Dance, Maxine Sheets writes, “The meaning of any dance comes alive for us only
as we ourselves have a lived experience of the dance.” One of the Dance Ensemble’s missions is to open up
new audiences at Davidson to the “lived experience” that is dance. I came to Davidson knowing little about dance as
an art. I am still a neophyte, but learning. At moments during the performances, I found myself enwrapped in the
movement on stage. When you really look, the body can speak.

One of the successes of the Fall concert was the way in which movement was made to speak in many
different voices. There was the voice of hip hop, in the pieces “Are You That Somebody?” and “Bad,” both choreographed
by Joy Gerdy ’02. These two pieces, set to the music of Aaliyah and Michael Jackson, captured, as in mimesis,
the rhythms of the two songs. Many of us have seen dance done to pop songs on MTV. But we
should not forget that such dance is aesthetic and artistic. Gerdy’s other piece was “Both Hands,” an expressive, impressionistic piece
set to the music of Ani DiFranco.

In her solo piece, Amanda Lanier ‘01 sought to bring into movement “The Burden of Madness.” Lanier’s alternatingly frantic and
calm, precise movements, like the hip hop pieces, captured the rhythm of the music to which it was set. Lanier’s
piece exhibited the precision necessary for artistic imprecision. She moved in ways that seemed at first chaotic, but, as the
dance progressed, were repeated in a way that invoked the idea that madness burdens the individual with the patterns in
its chaos.

The tap dancing of “I’m a Woman” was an ecstatic declaration. The dancers in the piece, working with the choreography
of Katherine Costa ‘03, wore glittering costumes with class. “I’m a Woman” was the most in-your-face, celebratory piece performed. This
piece resonated with the same tone of celebration that drove the Ensemble’s Spring ’99 concert, “The Beauty of the Woman.”

Emily Snyder’s ‘02 ballet piece, “Variation in Season,” set to the music of Vivaldi, captured the image of the dancer
that we see in Taglioni’s La Sylphide. Rather than shy away from change, the dancer’s movements in “Variation in Season”
communicated the joy of variation.

The concert’s final piece was “A Weathered Bowl.” Choreographed by Julia Philpott ‘02, this piece presented interpretations of the four
elements. The central action of “Earth” was, to my mind, the dancers’ support of one another, in the form of
lifts. I was struck by the way that these movements expressed a link between human support of other human beings
and earth as a foundation. Support of one another, the piece seemed to say, is our foundation, just as the
terra firma is the foundation of our “weathered bowl.”

Election, from page 7

Others also felt that this election offers an opportunity to examine and improve upon an already effective system. Wilson suggested
that “just because we claim a 200-year-old democratic tradition does not mean that it does not require maintenance.” As a
result of the confusion, Cody hoped that “states will look at and possibly resolve any ambiguities their statutes and laws
hold concerning the election process.”

When asked how they judged the effects of the delay on the country, students found plenty of room for debate.
Pustay reacted critically to the absence of a clear winner. “This indecision leaves the country vulnerable because there is no
leadership at a time of internal strife between the parties,” he remarked. Wilson agreed that “no one would say that
the long wait has been in our country’s best interest.” She foresaw the incoming president encountering problems solidifying his base
of support. By contrast, Gibson believed that “the delay is not the problem. It is the incessant campaign for public
opinion aimed at dividing the nation . . . that threatens the country and its future.”

Gibson, like many others, came down hard on the media and its presentation of the elections. Petty felt particularly strongly
about this. “I also think the media is key here, and they deserve a lot of blame for this mess,”
she ventured. Pustay shared her sentiments. “The media insists on determining the election based on exit polling, which, as we
found, means nothing.”

What part do the candidates themselves play in all of this?Students split over this issue as well. Some felt that
Gore was intentionally complicating and prolonging the process. Gibson stated flatly, “The candidates have demonstrated quite clearly the stark contrast
between one man’s dream to serve his country and another man’s dream to rule it.” On the other hand, Pustay
dealt out his criticism equally to both Gore and Bush. “Frankly, I’m ashamed of the reactions of both candidates,” he
admitted. Wilson granted that the parties may have influenced the attitudes of the presidential hopefuls. “I think the candidates are
being pressured by their parties to have a ‘strong’ response to the ambiguous results. Unfortunately, this assertiveness is not equivalent
to dignity,” she remarked. Cody took a more fatalistic view. “If anything, this election has shown that politics is just
politics, and politicians will do just about anything and everything to get their way in tough situations.”

“Water” was quick and cohesive, a dance that invoked the image of water moving down a surface, splitting, yet staying
together simultaneously. The dancers seemed to move with one consciousness, one volition, as water does when it runs its course
through the world. “Wind” also expressed to me this constancy of movement within the framework of one will, with movements
complementing and supporting.

“A Weathered Bowl,” when taken in its entirety, is striking in that the piece examines less of the four elements
and the world outside human activity and consciousness, focusing instead on the world within. The “weathered bowl” is, in a
way, us, and a celebration of our ability to support one another and to move together. The driving force behind
this is passion or emotion, the fire that moves slowly but constantly within us, which the dancers’ movements in “Fire”
expressed. In that expression, then, is the “lived experience” that is dance. Can dance speak? It can. Can it picture
for us truth? It can. Is it the highest of art forms? It can be.

Billy Elliot passes - barely
By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Movies like Billy Elliot annoy me. Sure, it’s a good movie, but it could have been so much more. Like
American History X, Billy Elliot is filled with gifted actors, an interesting story, and a screenplay so laden with inconsistencies
and underdeveloped characters it makes Dawson’s Creek seem well written.

The film takes place in a British coal mining town. As it opens, Billy (Jamie Bell) is like every other
boy in his neighborhood: he messes around in school, he takes boxing lessons, and hangs out with his best friend
Michael (Stuart Wells). His father (Gary Lewis) and older brother (Jamie Draven), like much of the town, are on strike
from the mine. One day at boxing, a flock of girls led by their militaristic teacher Mrs. Wilkinson (Julie Walters)
takes over one side of the gym. They catch Billy’s eye. He walks over to them, and almost too quickly
he trades in his shoes for ballet slippers. And so, Billy begins his career as a dancer, eventually finding his
way to The Royal Ballet School.

Movies like Billy Elliot are unfair because they use their screenplays not as vehicles for ideas or great stories, but
as a means to get false, emotional responses from the audience. In other words, Billy Elliot is full of meaningless
melodramatic and comedic scenes. Great movies are able to find emotion and comedy in scenes that must happen for the
story to continue; in Billy Elliot the moments and characters that are supposed to make us laugh and cry are
clumsy additions, not events essential to the film.

Take Billy’s best friend Michael, for instance. At age eleven Michael is uncannily sure of his being gay: he wears
his sister’s dress and his mother’s lipstick, and his face lights up when Billy hands him a tutu. He even
makes a pass at Billy. But why is Michael in this film? Billy would have still ended up at the
Royal Ballet School without Michael. Also, Billy shares with Mrs. Wilkinson a letter written to him a few years earlier
by his now deceased mother. Director Stephen Daldry clearly wants this scene to be emotionally powerful. The music swells up,
and the characters become sullen. But is this scene necessary, let alone logical? Well, it can be argued that the
message of the letter — “Be true to yourself” — gives Billy the inspiration to continue dancing despite his macho
father’s opinions. But we must remember that Billy is eleven, and that at this age, he would not know the
significance of the phrase “Be true to yourself.” Billy’s mother would agree, too: she wanted him to open the letter
when he turned eighteen.

In addition, the part of Billy’s father (Gary Lewis) is very poorly written. At times, he inexplicably changes his opinions
simply to allow the story to continue. Yet, given the material, Lewis does an effective job with the role. Lee
Hall’s screenplay is very weak, and could have easily been made into a very bad movie. But its strong cast
keeps the movie afloat... just barely. 1984 Oscar nominee Julie Walters is quite good as the ballet teacher, and so
is her snappy daughter played by Nicola Blackwell. But it is the film’s star that ultimately saves Billy Elliot from
failure. Jamie Bell in the titular role is nothing short of amazing. Watching him, I was reminded of Anna Paquin’s
performance in The Piano, which has become the benchmark against which all other child performances are judged. What Bell’s work
and Paquin’s work share are a quality of effortless realism and naiveté that no adult actor can possibly achieve. Bell
gets an A+. His movie just barely gets a B-.

Summer in Paris 2001
