“Ability is what you're capable of doing. Motivation determines what you do. Attitude determines how well you do it.” -
Lou Holtz

THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, May 4, 2000

Wildcats welcome 24th football coach, Joe Susan

Press Release
Davidson S.I.D.

Davidson held a press conference on Monday afternoon to introduce its newest head football coach, Joe Susan. He inherits a
program that has won a school-record eight games each of the last two seasons. Susan was the offensive coordinator and
offensive line coach for Princeton from April of 1991 until January of this year. He had been hired by Memphis
in February as its offensive line coach, but Davidson came calling, and Susan couldn’t refuse.

“I kept (Davidson Director of Athletics Jim Murphy) at arm’s length due to the timing after being hired by Memphis,”
Susan stated. “But he convinced me to come to the campus, and my visit was unique. Just walking around the
campus gave me a sense of being at home.

“It’s a privilege to be associated with a college the caliber of Davidson. I look forward to getting to know
the young men that make this program. We have a strong group of experienced skill players and some talented young
linemen. (Former head coach) Tim Landis left me with a full cupboard, and for that I thank him.”

The new head coach will inherit a solid defensive team that led all of I-AA in interceptions a year ago
with 28, including All-American defensive back Ryan Crawford who led the nation with eight picks. Also returning for his senior
season will be defensive lineman Bo Henderson, a I-AA Independent All-Star for the past two seasons.

Susan, 44, is a 1977 graduate of Delaware, where he majored in psychology, and earned his Master’s of Science from
Delaware as well in 1982. After spending eight seasons as an assistant coach at Bucknell, he was promoted to Assistant
Head Coach in 1989 at Bucknell. He served in that capacity for two years prior to moving on to Princeton.

“I basically spent four weeks on the phone,” said Murphy, “talking to many good candidates and references. But when it
was all said and done, Susan rose to the top. He is familiar with a strong academic environment and understands
the commitment our student-athletes make to their studies and to their football.”

Susan’s wife, Cynthia, and three children — Matthew (15), Jessica (14), and Julia (11) — still live in Princeton, but
will be moving to the Lake Norman area once the school year ends.

Sports Information

New football coach Joe Susan was introduced to the college community and the media April 24 at Baker Sports Complex.

U.S. Supreme Court debates issues of homosexuality

Nearly a year ago, the New Jersey Supreme Court handed down a decision currently under heavy debate by nine of
the most brilliant legal minds of our country. These justices have the difficult task of deciding whether James Dale, an
Eagle Scout and former assistant scoutmaster, has the right to remain in an organization to which he has dedicated his
life energy. The issue at hand: Mr. Dale is gay.

The Boy Scouts of America believe that Dale is a contradiction of their values, as a gay man he is
immoral and unclean, and certainly not a proper example for adolescent boys. They claim that he resigned his membership the
moment he came out during his years at Rutgers University and publicly declared his homosexuality. Now we must weave through
a tangled web of laws and morals to determine whether or not the BSA’s right to select leaders as a
private organization outweighs Mr. Dale’s individual right to be an active member of the Boy Scouts of America.

The Scout Oath contains a phrase “To help other people at all times.” Help all people. There is no distinction
to help all but gay people, but everyone: love thy neighbor. One of the main arguments in the case is
whether or not the BSA has a policy that forbids homosexuals membership. The fact of the matter is that no,
there does not exist a policy that specifically precludes homosexuals from admittance, the justification lies simply in the phrase from
the oath to be “morally straight,” and in the law to be “clean.”

I am an Eagle Scout and have been a member of the organization since I was six years old. My
tenure as a Boy Scout was a difficult but amazing journey. I learned to be a leader, a listener, and
a teacher: I learned how to live. Five summers of my life were spent as a summer camp counselor and
I found people to whom I could confide. These people became advocates for me. They gave me hope at a
time when the intensity of life was overwhelming. These bonds were formed by love—a love incomparable to any other that
I have ever felt.

When placed in front of a Channel Six News camera days after the New Jersey decision, however, I began to
realize that the love and support I had so treasured was in many ways an illusion. An Eagle Scout had
been thrown out of the organization, but for what? His sexual identity. An openly gay male, scout executives branded him
as the enemy. One moment an Eagle Scout, the next a monster: a travesty of the organization and a failure.
So when asked about my opinion on the New Jersey decision to allow Mr. Dale back into the organization I
spoke, with an unsuspecting father at my side, in favor of the decision. Mr. Dale’s homosexuality was part of his
biology, which means that eventually the Boy Scouts of America can be a sanctuary of hope. Why do we harm
our organization by rejecting those people whose creativity may serve to make us better people? Instead, we assume stereotypes and
encourage the oppression of unique individuals.I fear that this selectivity will serve only to erode the very foundation of Scouting.
How can we ask a scout to be courteous and kind when the leaders of the organization defend hate? I
understand that not all Davidson students are familiar with this impending court decision, but the ramifications are not just important
to the scouting communities, but to colleges and universities as well. I recently attended a session on “coming out on
fraternity row,” and found myself amidst Patterson Court members required to attend. The speaker was a gay male who had
come out to his fraternity members and was advocating our system of fraternities and women’s eating houses to foster a
healthful environment for those brothers and sisters who may be fighting the same mental battle as he had. I was
appalled to notice that the first three rows of the 900 Room were empty. People crowded themselves in the balcony
and the back of the room, anything to stay away from him. The talk was treated as torture by those
who complained of a possible, God forbid, hour and one-half duration. At the end of the session, a question was
raised—the only question in fact—as to why a homosexual would find it difficult to come out on campus. Surely Davidson
is the perfect place for that kind of transition?

Suppose that you are a closeted gay Davidson student in her or his first year. You attend hall mixers between
female and male halls where couples are identified by which woman has which man’s tie. You attend parties that perpetuate
heterosexuality, and your friends use the words “faggot” or “queer” to chide each other. The language enslaves you. The chance
for a relationship is impossible so you put aside your romantic interests for the next four years of your life
in favor of the excellent education that attracted you to Davidson. One of my close friends expressed concern over the
nature of this letter and feared that if it were to be published, the possibilities of harassment could be very
real. Davidson College is a liberal arts institution devoted to free thought and expression, to “let learning be cherished where
liberty has arisen.” The use of fear and intimidation in a way that is detrimental to these freedoms is contrary
to our very purpose.

To force someone to repress who they are, to live a life that is a falsity, and to see the
very fire that ignites their soul slowly fade, is a violation of the most basic human right—the right to have
an identity and be an autonomous individual. In my optimism, I would hope that Davidson students would be wise enough
to put aside any stereotypes that homosexuals are unclean. I treasure a lesson I learned during my first semester at
Davidson from the professor of my Anthropology 101 class: the ability to rise from the limited perspective of your social
construct and examine other cultures and people without letting your social prejudices impede that vision. We are probably more familiar
with the well-known maxim, to walk a mile in another person’s shoes before we criticize them. Everyone seems to recognize
the wisdom of that statement, but few embody it. If we all followed the wit of the anthropologist, then maybe
our attitudes would be more constructive, and our world better for it.

The suicide rate of gay teens is astronomical. In a time when people are desperately seeking guidance, I hope that
the BSA will rise up to this devastating trend of death with the positive reinforcement it provides so many other
millions of youth. People certainly have a right to association, but when that association is defined in terms of something
out of a person’s control—something inherent in their genetic structure—then the organization has impeded on her or his right to
live. To confine a person’s spirit and drain the very energy of life from their soul is an invitation to
death. As members of the Davidson community and citizens of the communities from where we came, we must aspire to
the virtuous task of healing this hate, and along the way, we might just become more humane individuals.

Ross J. Fenimore ’02
