By Emily Shingler
Guest Writer

Patterson Court is thriving this semester under the leadership of the new Patterson Court Advisor, Craig Rinker. Service has quickly become a top priority for all of the houses. The houses on the court have come together to raise money for the American Cancer Society in this year’s Relay for Life. The event will take place on April 28th and 29th. Ida Wainschel and Mike Schaefer, the Patterson Court Council Service Chairs, are extremely pleased with the enthusiasm for service they have found this Spring on Patterson Court. There are 25 teams registered for Relay For Life this year, compared with last year’s 11 teams.

“The event is going to be a great party. There will be music, movies, games, food, an aerobics class, a kickboxing class, and other activities. The house service chairs for Patterson Court are doing a phenomenal job and we're well on our way to an extremely successful and fun event,” Wainschel said.

In addition to Relay for Life, the houses on the court are busy working on their own individual service projects:

- Several brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha have been tutoring students at Mooresville High School twice a week this semester in everything from English to Physics. They recently held a car wash to raise money for the American Diabetes Association. They are planning similar car washes in the future to benefit other charities in the surrounding area. Currently, they are getting involved with a Police Athletic League baseball team to help coach and tutor their players until the end of the semester.
- The women of Connor House are currently forming a group that will be assisting the town of Davidson with its Easter egg hunt. This event, held annually on the town green, will take place on Thursday, April 20th. Connor House also sponsored the Operation Smile Festival on April 7th from 4-8 PM. They will also be supporting KA’s Karnival on April 15th with a face painting booth.
- Earlier this semester, the pledgemasters and freshmen pledges of Phi Delt assisted the American Cancer Society in Charlotte in its annual Daffodil Days event. They sold daffodils to raise money for cancer research and patient services. Phi Delt is also planning a cookout for kids from the local tutoring and Big Brother programs. Volunteers outside of Phi Delt would be welcome at this event.
- Warner Hall is currently planning a program at CMC for the freshmen, where they will participate in art therapy for children with cancer. They are also soliciting businesses in the community for donations to support their service projects.
- In February, the brothers of Kappa Sigma participated in a community service project at Joshua’s Farm. The farm is set up to help disabled children work with their disabilities on a real working farm. Kappa Sigma was among many other local volunteers. The fourteen volunteers spent four hours each clearing brush and chopping wood. All the participants found the experience rewarding and plan to return.
- The brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon have been working with Habitat for Humanity this semester. They also held a cookout in early February to raise money for cystic fibrosis. Additionally, they are planning a community-wide service event called Bowling for Babies on April 15th to benefit cystic fibrosis.
- Every Tuesday afternoon from 5-6 PM, volunteers from Turner run a program called Choice Tuesday at Ada Jenkins Community Center. Turner women venture to Ada Jenkins for a fun-filled hour of cooking with the 2nd, 3rd, and 5th graders enrolled in the Ada Jenkins afterschool program. The children learn about reading and following recipes, measuring, stirring, boiling, and having fun. With the help of the Turner volunteers, the little chefs have made everything from mini pizzas and Chex Mix to rice and beans and Valentine’s Day cookies.
- This semester, Rusk Eating House is challenging itself to gain 100% house participation in service activities. Their projects include working with the Relatives (a transition home for kids), Project H.A.L.O. (a shelter for homeless animals), Habitat for Humanity, and various tutoring organizations in the community. They have also joined forces with other eating houses in purchasing items to auction for KA’s carnival.
- This semester’s service for Kappa Alpha has focused around helping the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Their major service event is a charity golf tournament, which they hope will raise significant funds for the association.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000Goal for the semester is to raise money for MDA to send children to a special summer camp. KA’s central Spring service activity is the annual KArnival (April 15th) to benefit MDA. The brothers of KA have raised over $5,500 in corporate advertising, donations, and MDA Shamrocks. The Karnival will feature Cast Iron Filter, Thunderdome Racing, a Moonbounce, a dunk tank with President Vagt, a Carolina Panther signing autographs, a Harley bike display, and Dale Earnhardt memorabilia. The brothers are building relationships with the kids in the community and have collected various items, including paraphernalia from Roush Racing and Hendrick Motorsports, 4 NASCAR tickets, Carolina vs. Duke basketball game tickets, and many others. In addition, 25 brothers recently volunteered at the Mooresville MDA Lock-Up: Brothers went in throughout the day and helped sign people in at the event. The event raised over $44,000 for MDA. A few weeks ago, 10 brothers volunteered at the Charlotte Hoop It Up. The money raised at this event went to the Relatives, an organization that helps runaway teens.

The members of Fiji recently adopted the section of Griffith Street between I-77 and Main Street through the Adopt-A-Highway program. They will be working on that at least once a semester and plan to make it a permanent part of their service efforts.

Davidson celebrates feminism
By ANNE STANCIL
Guest Writer

On March 30, seventeen Davidson students traveled to Baltimore, Maryland for the second Feminist Expo. Sponsored by the Feminist Majority Foundation and 575 other organizations, the Expo was truly a global event, inviting delegations from many nations. Fifteen women and two men represented the Davidson community at the conference. During the weekend they had the opportunity to hear dynamic speakers such as Gloria Steinem and Carol Moseley Braun, Ambassador to New Zealand, discuss the issues surrounding feminism in the twenty-first century. Other speakers included poet Bell Hooks and Gail Dines, who gave a powerful presentation on pornography at Davidson last year. Davidson’s own Cameron Richardson spoke about campus activism, sharing her experiences working with Amnesty International.

In addition to speakers and panels, the Expo hosted hundreds of US and global organizations which shared their information in a gallery of booths and displays. Some of the issues discussed during the weekend were reproductive freedom and the Taliban in Afghanistan. The Taliban, which currently control Afghanistan’s government, literally imprison women in their homes. Other issues included female political involvement and women and the media. Six thousand feminists—both female and male—invaded Baltimore for the conference, and each was filled with enthusiasm. Participants from around the globe came to speak about their country’s own feminism and challenges. Although many of the women spoke different languages, they were able to share their feelings of solidarity, excitement, and empowerment. Though women have achieved a great deal since the women’s movement of the 1970s, panelists presented a staggering statistic which showed that women perform two-thirds of the world’s work, receive ten percent of the world’s wages, and own less than one percent of the world’s property. In the United States, for example, women earn approximately 77 cents for every dollar a man earns. Furthermore, the U.S. is one of only six countries, along with Afghanistan and Iran, which has not ratified the United Nations declaration to end all forms of discrimination against women.

Davidson’s participation in the Feminist Expo was funded by Campus Forums, The Women’s Issues Committee, the Gender Resource Center, President Vagt, and the Dean of Students Office. The Women’s Issues Committee will host an Expo forum on April 19 in the Outpost in conjunction with Cultural Arts night.

DAVIDSON COURT
New Condominium Community In Downtown Davidson
Ready for Occupancy
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
$69,900 to $124,950
Lori Ivester Jackson
Laura Gillikin
581-4234
LAKE PROPERTIES LIMITED
Lake4Sale@aol.com

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE - VEGETABLE SOUP
Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE
Bet you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!
The Soda Shop
Since 1951
104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC
Eat-in Take-out
896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8
Fri 8-9