THE DAVIDSONIAN  
By Mart De Fepe

Recently in Vienna, the trial of an elderly doctor was thrown out of court for the third time. However, this was not your average malpractice suit, but a commonly repeated trial of a dying worker who is leftover from Hitler’s Third Reich. The time has come to stop clogging up all European court systems with the trials of old Nazi doctors and minor SS and SA members!

Dr. Heinrich Gross, 84, is one of many of the “dying” prime from Hitler’s days. As time lingers on and people like Pope John Paul II apologize for past mistakes, it is imperative to ask how much is enough? Does it really make sense to place these men on trial? After all, an overwhelming majority of them are suffering from chronic illnesses and are above the age of seventy-five. Take Dr. Gross for example. As the International Herald Tribune noted, he “was put on trial twice before, but the case was thrown out in 1950 because of legal technicalities and again in the 1980s because the 30-year statute of limitations on manslaughter had expired.” If the trial has been unsuccessful twice before due to technicalities and the like, does it make sense to press on a third time?

People cry for prison reform and assistance for the elderly, but doesn’t the placement of dying old men in prisons - for crimes they can’t even remember - contradict such pleas? I simply cannot understand why we should keep trying these dying men for “humanitarian crimes.” I am not mitigating their actions nor am I trying to forget the terrors of the Holocaust. However, I am stating that we should question where the line should be drawn. Does it make sense to imprison these men for the few remaining years of their lives when they pose no immediate or direct threat to rising right-wing groups (those of the “new European populism”) such as Joerg Haider’s FPO in Austria and Le Pen in France? They also have no influence over the much younger East-German influx of Neo-Nazis and those with xenophobic tendencies. These dying men cannot remember their names much less salute with a “Heil Hitler.” Why should the court systems proceed in preventing more relevant trials such as recent anti-Semitic crimes in Germany and Austria or even other crimes, which have nothing at all to do with the past? Most of these former Nazis have been brought to trial at least three times, all of which were thrown out of court. And it doesn’t look like these trials will stop anytime soon either. We’re all apologetics, but I feel that enough is enough.

International

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:
Vladimir Putin: Securing 53% of the vote, Russia’s acting president was elected to a four-year term.
Hillary Clinton: A New York poll showed that the Democratic candidate for the Senate had drawn ahead of her rival, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, for the first time. A rash of killings by the New York police had decreased some of the mayor’s popularity.
Uday Hussein: The elder son of Saddam Hussein was elected to the Iraqi parliament after winning 99.9% of the vote in a Baghdad constituency.
Colombia: After much debate, the House today approved a $12.7 billion emergency aid package that commits the United States to train and equip Colombia’s security forces in their battle against the narcotics trade.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:
Cigarette companies: A San Francisco jury ordered Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds, two cigarette companies, to pay $20 million in punitive damages to a woman with lung cancer. The companies plan to appeal.
Uganda: The initial suspicion that the Ugandan cult members had committed mass suicide was changed to a mass murder suspicion after approximately 900 corpses were found buried in pits. The corpses included a large number of children.
Haiti: Rioters blocked traffic, threw stones and burned street stalls after an electoral council’s decision to hold a general election earlier than wished by the President, Rene Preval.
Japan: Mount Usu, a snow-capped volcano erupted, emitting huge clouds of smoke and ash. Though 15,000 people were forced to flee their homes, there were no reported casualties.

Correction: Chen Shui-bian does not support a formal declaration of independence from mainland China, as was stated in last week’s Davidsonian. Thanks to Dr. Rigger for the correction.if we don’t get our heads out of the soot and ashes of the past, then we're all bound to get dirty. In concentrating more upon the past, we're forgetting the future. Again, I’m not trying to say we should not study such past events such as World War II and the Holocaust. On the contrary, I think we should learn from such errors to prevent their reoccurrence. But now that we’ve accepted those errors (in this case, the Holocaust and Hitler’s rise to power), shouldn’t we leave things as they are and move forward from such mistakes? Enough is enough. These men have had their glory. They’ve committed wrong deeds and they’ve paid the price. They’re old now and soon their time will come to pass from this world. No one looks to these ill and dying old men for influence. Shouldn’t we at least let them die in peace while focusing upon solutions to prevent such catastrophes from arising once again?

The author is a freshman, Political Science and German double major from Columbia, South Carolina.

---

Singles lottery held Tuesday

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

After a 60-minute blitz of sound and fury, 92 students secured singles for next year at RLO’s single-room lottery on Tuesday night. This year’s lottery, held at 6 PM on Tuesday in the Morrison Room of the student union, was the first time students have actually ever congregated for the process. In past years, students seeking singles submitted their requests to the Residence Life Office and the staff assigned rooms based on lottery numbers and preferences indicated.

Most all those involved with Tuesday night’s lottery expressed satisfaction with the new process. “I’m very pleased that students had this direct participation,” said Kurt Holmes, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life. “It comes with the drawback of an hour’s worth of aggravation and standing in line, but all in all I think it was good.”

Over 80% of men (51 out of 63) seeking single rooms were accommodated; while 52% of women (41 out of 79) secured singles. The top name on the female waiting list has a lottery number of 813; the first-in-line male has 1113.

Although most students seemed pleased with the process, that sentiment was not unanimous. “I feel that the process was unfair,” said Candice Alexander, a junior serving as a proxy for a classmate studying abroad. “I got there ten seconds after 6:00 and the doors were locked.” Holmes acknowledged that the doors closed promptly at 6:00, but pointed to a campus-wide e-mail that advised students: “(Lottery) will be held in the Morrison Room of the Union and will begin promptly at 6:00 p.m. Be early!! (6:01 p.m. is too late.)”

RLO officials explained that a steady stream of late students arrived after 6:00, and that the doors had to close at some point in order to begin the intricate process of arranging applicants by lottery number and then selecting rooms. “By my watch, it was exactly 6:00,” Alexander countered. “(Someone) said they had just closed the door. If you’re ten seconds after 6:00, that’s still 6:00. They should have given us a minute lee-way.” Alexander was among 12 students that were turned away at the door—their names were added to the waiting list for single rooms.

Other students complained about the lines and shortage of off-campus housing places. But those sentiments seemed contained to a small number. Will Parsley, a junior who got a single in 3rd Duke, said, “There’s enough to (complain) about in this life without worrying about the singles lottery.”

Debbie Harrison, the housing director for RLO, spent much of the evening fielding feedback from students. “This is the first time we’ve done it live like this, it’s always been on paper,” she said. “We’d love to hear what people think.”

---

Smoke-free Dorm

RLO also announced on Tuesday that Sentelle has been designated as a smoke-free building for the upcoming school year. “I think that’s a wonderful option for students,” said Holmes.

---

The Davisonian accepts responses to stories in the international commentary section. Please submit responses to the Viewpoint Section.

---

The Ultimate Internet Gameshow
Grand Prize $5,000
High Score Month of April
Live weeknights - 9:00 p.m. est
Play against your friends across the country.
Top 15 players place in the money!
www.CollegeKnowledge.NET