THE DAVIDSONIAN News THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000 = 3

Hansford Epes takes over as registrar

Press RELEASE

Davidson College has appointed one of its longest-standing citizens, German and Humanities Professor Hansford Epes, as the institution’s new registrar. Epes entered Davidson as a freshman student in 1957, has been teaching at his alma mater since 1964, and for the past six months has served as interim registrar.

Clark Ross, vice president for academic affairs, said Epes’ 40-year-plus association with the college was just one factor in his successful candidacy. Ross said, “No one is more dedicated to the institution than Hansford. His blend of experience and expertise will serve Davidson well in the registrar’s office.”

Epes has held many positions of responsibility at the college, including coordinator of international education, chair of the German department, the first-ever coordinator of academic computing, adviser for Rhodes and Marshall Scholarship candidates, coach of the College Bowl team, and service on the faculty’s educational policy committee and curriculum requirements committee.

Epes emphasized that his new administrative duties will not retire him from the classroom, and said he would not have accepted the contract if it did not allow him to continue teaching. “I refuse in any way to say I’m no longer a teacher,” he said. “I consider myself a teacher and a registrar, rather than a registrar who teaches.” The distinction is important to Epes, who will continue to teach one course per semester in the Humanities Program, a four-semester interdisciplinary examination of Western civilization that he has taught since 1969 and led for the last four years.

His registrar’s job involves work with both students and faculty in course registration, academic advising, management of self-scheduled exams, scheduling classrooms and courses, maintaining grade records, progress toward graduation requirements, and transcripts. Epes explained, “In terms of service to others, our mission is to be as scrupulous as humanly and ‘computer-ly’ possible about keeping academic information (and keeping it confidential!), and then sharing it with the people entitled to receive it.” He is assisted in his duties by five full-time and two part-time colleagues.

During his six months of interim duty, he has spent much of his time answering questions about transfer of course credits from the 150 or more Davidson students who are at all times studying abroad or at other institutions in this country. “They all have legitimate questions and they all know how to use email!” he said. “I try to answer as quickly as possible, and it takes a lot of time.”

Epes’ comfort with the college computer system also made him a top qualifier for the job, since registrar's functions are becoming increasingly automated. During his interim period, the college brought online a Banner software module that permits students to make adjustments to their course schedules on the Web. In addition, student grades

Jill Ciment hired as creative writing professor

By ANNE STANCIL
Staff Writer

Acclaimed novelist, screenwriter, and poet Jill Ciment joins the Davidson family this semester as the McGee Professor of Writing. Through the generous gifts of alumnus John McGee, the college invites an outstanding writer each year to teach creative writing classes and contribute to life and literary events on campus. Ciment joins other great writers, including Maxine Kumin and Sheri Reynolds, who have filled the McGee Professorship.

During her semester at Davidson, Ciment will teach introductory and advanced writing courses. In addition, she continues to work on her fifth book, a novel titled The Life and Art of Sara Ehrenreich.

Born in Canada, Ciment has taught in New York for the past fifteen years. She recently served as guest professor at Columbia University and the New School for Social Research. She has also served as an adjunct professor, teaching writing courses at many New York-area schools.

Ciment’s most recently published novel, Teeth of the Dog, met much critical acclaim as “a riveting suspense story.” In addition to her novels, Ciment has published a memoir, Half a Life, which she adapted to screenplay telling about her troubled childhood in Los Angeles. The New York Times review of Half a Life stated that “she delineates the complicated emotional geometry of familial relationships with equal measures of wit and compassion.”

Ciment is a strong believer in the philosophy that teaching molds a better writer. In addition to her many accomplishments, Ciment won an NEA Arts/Japan Cultural Grant for this year. She began her semester at Davidson by reading in the 900 Room on Monday, January 25.were posted on the Web for the first time at the end of the fall semester, in addition to being distributed via regular mail. He said a major automation project still ahead is the computerization of the senior audit and standards of progress for members of other classes. “I spent many hours last fall going through the transcript of all seniors to see that they were on track to meet graduation requirements,” he explained. “The computer can handle a lot of that work for us.” The computerization of the office is also raising new and difficult issues, he added. The most common request made of the registrar by students is for transcripts to be forwarded to another institution where they plan to study. Federal rules on privacy of academic records place specific requirements on how that can be done. Therefore, transcripts are currently sent as hard copies marked with an official college seal and placed in a sealed envelope. “All of these rules were written before we had the possibility of sharing information electronically,” Epes said. “But now people want to share information via email for speed and convenience. How can we assure the same level of security and authenticity for transcripts if we try to do that? The problem will be a big one for both lawmakers and educators.” Epes said he had never previously considered the registrar’s job, but accepted the call by Ross to serve as interim head of the department out of a sense of duty. He was initially schooled by departing registrar Polly Griffin, who worked with him as she prepared to take on a new job at Dartmouth College. He has been learning the ropes since then from his staff, whom he described as “the best office on campus.” He found that he liked the work and made the decision to apply for the permanent position. “I have come to enjoy the new challenges,” he said. “In addition, how often at my age do you get to change careers without leaving home, without giving up what you already do, and without being forced to make that change? It was an extremely rare opportunity I didn’t want to let pass.” He said he is grateful that the matter was resolved in his favor, and he looks forward to “sitting down with the staff to set some priorities and see what we can do to serve students and faculty better.”

Movie Review: Snow Falling on Cedars
By F. Justin Ossmann
Layout Editor

First off, I would like to begin by saying that I liked this movie more than I would have expected. I had heard very little about Snow Falling on Cedars, and the only reason I even saw it was because I was accompanying someone who had read the book in her AP English class and was supposed to see the movie. I normally am not one to go out of my way to spend six dollars on a murder-mystery based on a best-selling book. However, I found this movie to be enjoyable. Granted, it is not my favorite movie of all time... but I don’t regret seeing it.

The movie is based on the book of the same name by David Guterson. Snow Falling on Cedars chronicles the love story of one Ishmael Chambers, a reporter in the little town of San Pedro Island. He is covering a murder trial that accuses Kazuo Miyamoto, the husband of a Japanese girl whom Ishmael once loved, and still has feelings for. The entire story is set against the racist years following World War II and the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.

Overall, the movie was good. The acting was exceptional, especially from Ethan Hawke, who played Ishmael. Youki Kudoh also gives an excellent performance as the subject of Ishmael’s love, Hatsue Miyamoto. The cinematography was award-worthy; the surreal camera shots and shifting between flashbacks and the present were well executed. The scripting of the movie, however, was less than perfect. Often the dialogue was clichéd and predictable. The ending, though creative, was still predictable, and the cinematography was, at times, too surreal, leading to confusion and disorientation. Still, Snow Falling on Cedars is a movie that I would recommend to anyone who does not require huge explosions or gallons of spilled blood to be entertained. Any fan of literary cinema or your basic murder mystery will like this movie. And you won’t regret spending six dollars either.

“Transforming Undergraduate Science Education”
Tonight (Thursday), 8 pm, Chambers Gallery
Dr. Marye Anne Fox
Henry Lewis Smith Lecturer