+ Susan, continued from page 2

"interviewed on Monday, was hired on Wednesday, and was on campus by Thursday,” stated Susan. As soon as he stepped
foot on campus, Susan had reasons to be optimistic. He was pleased to see that Davidson’s student body is drawn
from all over the nation because Susan has always been a national recruiter. But he maintains that the southeast is
where they are going to look for players, “We have twenty-two players from North Carolina on the squad, and many
from Florida and Georgia among others.” Ohio, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania also provide a substantial amount of Wildcats. Susan stresses
that the campus will be instrumental in attracting top recruits, “This campus is very beautiful and it will attract (recruits)
easily.” He is making it his point to recruit size for the move to the highly competitive Pioneer League. “Unfortunately
all the big players who are physically mature and fundamentally sound are at a premium, and they go to the
big name programs. But if we can find big players who are projects and we can develop them right, it
will help our program tremendously,” explains Susan.

At present, Susan and the Wildcat staff are concerned with the upcoming season, where they will try to build on
two consecutive eight-win seasons. The team has planned offensive and defensive systems that should keep opponents on their heels and
fans on their feet. The Wildcat defense will be characterized by aggressiveness and increased pressure. “We will be blitzing more
and using more zone pressure and less straight man,” Susan said. Cornerback Ryan Crawford and defensive end Bo Henderson, both
pre-season All-Americans, will anchor the defense. Susan, however, stresses that individual accolades, although well deserved, mean nothing to them, “they
both want to win first and foremost.” Other leaders for the defense will include the Crawford twins—ready for the new
season—Sean Frowndorff and Freeman Belser, who is returning this year with a chip on his shoulder after suffering a knee
injury.

Susan’s impact will be felt most on the offensive side of the ball. Instead of the option, which was featured
last year, the Wildcats will be armed with many formations featuring a multitude of players. “We will line up in
one back sets, two back sets, we will use the shotgun a lot, we will drop back into the pocket
but we will also move the pocket,” Susan explained. The offensive leaders are center Matt Barry, tackle Jerry Saunders, and
wide receiver Corey Crawford. The prospect of big plays on the special teams excites Susan. Freshman Randall Hardy is capable
of big plays, and will see a lot of action on the field this season. Daryll Childress is expected to
see time as well. The kicking game is a bright spot. With Dan Hanks and freshman Chris Costello, Susan has
two weapons at his disposal. This week the Wildcats face Jacksonville for the opener. Susan said the key to the
game will be who controls the third downs and which team can make big plays. Jacksonville likes to play their
defense close to the line of scrimmage so look for the Wildcats to challenge Jacksonville down the field.

Men’s soccer ties for Navy Classic title

BY ANDY LANOHA
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s soccer team opened the season this past weekend with a win and a tie at the Navy
Classic Soccer Tournament in Annapolis, Maryland. The Cats won a tight 1-0 match against Towson University in the tournament’s opener,
and saved a 3-3 dogfight in the final against the Navy Midshipmen thanks to the stellar play of junior midfielder
Jon Teterick (“Tet”).

Davidson put in a solid performance Friday night against the Towson University Tigers. Towson came out fast and tallied four
shots in the first five minutes, but a near miss by Teterick sparked the Cats and they owned the next
80 minutes. Senior forward Ikenna Myers put in the game winner in the 71st minute. “Ozmick put in the corner
kick and a defender headed it out. It bounced out to me and I volleyed it first time. It went
in hard and hit the underside of the post before going in.” Davidson finished the game out-shooting Towson 14-7 with
a 14-0 advantage on corner kicks. “It was a good team effort. We dominated the statistics and fortunately got a
goal and the victory,” Slagle commented after the game.

The Cats carried their momentum into Sunday’s match against the Navy Midshipmen taking a solid 2-0 lead into the locker
room at halftime. Junior Chris Norbet opened the scoring in the sixth minute. Receiving a ball at the top of
the box, Norbet freed enough room to put in a 25-yard blast that keeper Soren Johnson called “nasty.” “The defender
just backed off me a bit, I touched inside and then hit it,” said Norbet. Teterick added to the lead
in the 26th minute with an equally impressive goal. Stealing the ball at midfield, Teterick dribbled up-field, taking on three
defenders before burying a long-distance shot from the top of the box.

Unfortunately, the Cats lapsed for about 20 minutes to start the second period and managed to fall behind 3-2. Navy
senior and tournament MVP Michael Paisant notched the first just as the second half opened. The Midshipmen tied the game
at 58:17 and then surged ahead just seconds later with another goal from Paisant. “We handed it to them,” lamented
Johnson, “three goals, there you go.” Davidson faced their first gut check of the season but answered the call with
another Jon Teterick goal in the final 15 minutes. “After they scored the third goal we huddled up. Teterick came
in asked, ‘Alright, who’s gonna be the hero?’” recalled junior defender John Martin. “Then he stepped up, controlled the pace
of the game and scored the goal.” Davidson finished the game out-shooting the Midshipmen 20-10.with an 11-7 advantage in corners.
The Cats finished second in the tournament, losing to Navy on a tiebreaker of goals scored. Teterick, Norbet, and Johnson
were named to the Navy Classic all-tournament team. Though the Cats did well to tie the Navy game, attitudes toward
the weekend remain mixed. “We got to see good and bad this weekend,” Captain David Beuhler commented. “People come up
to me and say, ‘1-0-1, that’s not bad.’ But we aren’t satisfied with the tie. We never feel that we
should do anything other than win.” Nevertheless, Buehler remained positive about the future for the team. “We made some mistakes
and had one bad lapse. But we learned some important lessons that we will take into the next game.” The
Cats lace ‘em up again on Thursday evening at 7:00 when they battle cross-town rivals UNC Charlotte at TransAmerica Field.
This year’s seniors have much on the line as they face their last opportunity to beat the 49ers, a team
who has had Davidson’s number three years running.

Cross Country kicks off new season

MILES HARMON AND JACOB McCLEAN
Staff Writers

With blazing speed and short shorts, the men’s and women’s cross country teams of Davidson College opened their season on
Friday at the Mountaineer Open in Boone, N.C. The Wildcat men finished seventh in the seven-team field, while South Florida
ran away with the men’s title. Junior Dan Gibson led the way for the men’s team with a time of
26:58, and was followed by Jimmy Swansbrough ‘03 (27:41), Andy Schoewe ‘03 (27:48), Colby Broadwater ‘04 (27:50), and Dave Bunge
‘04 (28:03). This youthful group of beautiful runners (only one senior and 8 freshmen) marks a new beginning for the
Davidson running program and showed to the conference that despite the loss of so many top runners last year, Davidson
running will continue its successful run. Charlie Blankenship, a 60-year-old janitor at a local high school, was quoted as saying:
“Wow, these young boys sure can run!”

The equally youthful and talented women’s XC team was led by Senior Smyth Bitter at 19:48, Colleen Faes ‘04 (20:08),
Jenna Kruppa ‘04 (20:47), Brooke Kittinger ‘03 (20:55), and Laura Puckett ‘04 (21:09). The women’s team finished ninth in the
ten-team competition. With a new coaching staff and 6 freshmen, the team is ready to challenge for a top spot
in the conference. Senior co-captain Keith Chapman best summed up the race by saying: “This was a great learning experience.
Both teams will perform at a much higher level mentally in the following races.” Next up for the Davidson runners
is the Davidson Open and Alumni Invitational on Sept. 9.

Preview

BY WILL ROBERSON
Sports Editor

After winning eight games each of the past two years, the Wildcat football team has high hopes for the new
season. New head coach Joe Susan has sixteen starters returning to tackle a difficult schedule featuring Jacksonville, Morehead, Austin Peay,
and San Diego (all from the Pioneer League). Guilford, W & L, Hampden Sydney, and Georgetown are on the schedule
again, as is Sewanee, Emory and Henry, Randolph Macon, and Centre. “Starting off with Jacksonville will be a terrific challenge
for us,” stated Coach Susan. “They are always tough, and opening the season against them will help us judge where
we stand and how well we have progressed. We will certainly need to be prepared come September 9.”

Starting at quarterback for the ‘Cats will be sophomore Paul Nichols. Nichols beat out senior Shaun Tyrance and fellow sophomore
Graham Watson for the starting job. Last year as a freshman, Nichols appeared in five games, including a start at
Randolph-Macon. He earned that start by leading the Wildcats to three fourth-quarter touchdowns and a 28-27 come-from-behind victory at Georgetown.
After losing all-time leading rusher Eric Ferguson to graduation, the Wildcats will look to advance the football through the air.
Nichols will have plenty of capable targets to throw to this year. Leading the receivers is senior Corey Crawford. Crawford
led the team in all-purpose yardage last year, and looks to move out of the backfield to wide receiver full-time
under Coach Susan. Crawford is currently tenth all-time at Davidson in receiving yards. Nichols will also have the options of
Junior Mike Tarver, Senior Marcus McFadden, and Sophomore Mike Chase. Tarver caught 15 passes last year for 233 yards, including
a 76-yard touchdown against Austin Peay. McFadden, a two-year starter at tight end, caught nine passes last year, including six
against Georgetown. Chase, who stands 6-foot-3, caught 5 passes with a 13-yard average in 1999.

The team’s trademark over the past two years has been an impenetrable defense. Two of Davidson’s returning defensive stalwarts, senior
cornerback Ryan Crawford and senior defensive tackle Bo Henderson, have been rated among the top 10 at their respective positions
by The Sports Network for the 2000 Division I-AA football season. The two Wildcats are the only players from a
non-scholarship program that are among the top 10. Last year, Crawford led the nation with eight interceptions to earn first-team
AP All-American status. His five blocked kicks were one shy of the all-time I-AA record. Henderson has averaged over 90
tackles per season for his career, and needs just three more sacks to break the school record of 22.

The Wildcat special teams have also played a huge role in the team’s success in the last two seasons. Sophomore
kicker Daniel Hanks (9-11 FG, 28-29 XP, 36.8 punting avg.) is back after an impressive freshman year. The ‘Cats are
also known for their ability to block kicks — which often leads to easy points for the offense. The Wildcats
definitely look capable of another eight-win season, but it will surely not be easy. This week’s game against Jacksonville is
an important first test. The Wildcats have been defeated by the Dolphins each of the last two years by a
combined 10 points. Kickoff on Saturday is slated for 1:30 pm at Richardson Stadium.
