@ ALENDA LU

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2000

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 1

Roof installation delays campus center completion —

Wooden roof to
be replaced with
metal; center
slated to open in
early April

By MATT GARFIELD
News Editor

The Knobloch Campus Center is hailed as the place where students will be able to socialize, hold meetings, play games,
do almost anything—all under one roof.

Building that roof, Davidson officials have found, is much more difficult and expensive than anticipated.

The center is being built out of what once was Johnston Gym, home to Davidson’s men’s basketball team before it
moved to Belk Arena. Renovations began in October 1999.

Designers hoped to save time and money, as well as preserve the building’s rich character, by leaving its wooden roof
in place.

Knowing that the roof in its original state did not meet N.C. fire safety standards, designers began negotiating with state
officials to find a way to meet the standards of the code without having to take the wooden roof down.
Meanwhile, construction continued on other parts of the center.

Proposals submitted to the state included spraying the wood with fireproof intumescent paint and installing a smoke evacuation system, a
machine that would suck up smoke if a fire was to start.

Grover Sawyer, a commissioner in the Engineering Division of the N.C. Department of Insurance, said his agency essentially told the
college if it wanted to keep the wooden roof, it would have to install a firewall, a metal barrier that
would prevent the spread of a fire by dividing the center into two parts.

“Even if you protect the wood [with intumescent spray], it’s still combustible,” said Sawyer.

But designers thought a firewall would destroy the open atmosphere of the building, and decided against that option.

Unable to reach a compromise after several months of negotiations with state officials, college president Bobby Vagt and the designers
decided—reluctantly, noted Vagt—in late May to install a metal roof, delaying the completion of the center about two months until
early April 2001, and costing $250,000 to $500,000, estimates Vagt.

“Time was passing,” he said. “We finally had to fish or cut bait.”

Vagt is certain that meeting the additional costs will not be a problem. The greatest injustice, in his view, is
that the Class of 2001 will only get to enjoy the center for a few weeks.

“People will stop and talk to each other and interact (at the center),” said Vagt. “That’s the beauty of it.
I just wish (completion) had happened sooner.”

Preserving the storied heritage of the old gymnasium—including the wooden roof—was a high priority during planning stages.

“In its heyday, when Davidson was ranked in the top 10, this is the place we played our home games,”
recounted Vagt. “It wasn’t big. (But) it was loud. It was a place of great memories.”

But Vagt said continuing to negotiate with the state would have meant further delaying the completion of the center—a delay
he was not willing to accept.

“Do we wish it had come out another way?” asked Vagt. “Yes. But the world’s not coming to an end.”

INSIDE
Viewpoint
Kursk tragedy analyzed

Has PETA gone too far?

In defense of gay Christians

Sports
Volleyball set to repeat

Cake Race coverage

Field Hockey joins new conference

West Dorm opens to complaints

West Dorm is home to sophomores, many of whom have complained about the size and condition of the rooms.

By AARON HOUCK and LINDY BALDWIN
Staff Writers

West Hall, the newest arrival on Davidson’s campus, has met with mixed reactions since its inception.

The dorm began construction amid allegations that RLO was forcing students to live on-campus and taking away parking; the first
residents moved in to whispers that inspectors condemned the building.

Despite such concerns, Area Coordinator Troy Williams stated that he feels things are going smoothly. West’s singles and suites were
in high demand during last spring’s housing lottery. Williams believes “people like having that door they can close [to designate
their own space].”

Karissa Smatlak ’02 and Cheryl Greene ’02, both residents of 4th West, had mid-range lottery numbers and were among the
last to get into the building. Greene, who lives in a double, said she likes having a roommate and her
own space at the same time. Smatlak chose a single for privacy, although she noted she’s glad some of her
friends are living in nearby singles to de-

See West, page 4.
