"Well, well, well. Apparently, my article last time incited a little bit of pseudo-feminist anger. In case you didn’t see, people posted flyers in Chambers accusing my article of using sexist language and said that using such language was equivalent to violence. God, have mercy upon me, for I have enraged the liberals. Hell hath no fury like a feminist’s scorn. In response to this flyer, let me start by saying that if you disagree with what I am saying or doing, then have the guts to face ME about it. No one called me, emailed me, or in any other way expressed that they were upset by my words. Posting anonymous flyers...wow, that takes guts. If you believe in something, at least be man/woman enough to stand up openly for it (notice my gender-balanced language). I won’t speak directly in this article to those who accuse me of using sexist language because I will not enable their little unfounded mission. Weak, just weak. And now, to the actual accusations themselves... In my last article, I used the words “slut” and “whore.” True enough. However, I used “slut” to refer to my fellow contributor Aaron Sundstrom, a man. In effect, by doing so, I disempower the stereotype that the word “slut” brings to mind. I contradict the standard that “slut” only refers to a promiscuous woman. My use of language breaks down stereotypes. My use of the word “whore” is presented in a context where I remove the singularly sexual connotation of that word. By calling someone a “comment-whore” as I did, I put forward the idea that a whore is someone who participates in a non-gender-based activity excessively. I remove the sexual nature of the word, and by doing so, de-gender it. And I won’t even deal with the accusation that the word “beast” is sexist. How that could possibly be, I don’t know. If anything, I have used language in an effort to break down the English language’s sexist tendencies. Susan Moller Okin, a prominent feminist writer, has argued that one must actively fight the tendencies of our language to repress and marginalize women. My lexicon has been an attempt to do just that. So maybe by reading my words in the stereotypical way, fighting my blatant attempts to reorder the sexual linguistic pecking order, those guys/gals who posted those flyers really are the ones who are sexist and promote those ideas. And let’s now talk about women’s issues and sexism in general. If you were offended by my article, then you didn’t get it. It was not my intent to denigrate women. I did not attempt to deal with any substantive issues. If you mistakenly read my article hoping to gain some political insight or read a laundry list of facts, then you should never read my articles again. It was my attempt in the last issue’s article to be funny by hyperbole. Lots of people got the humor, and if you didn’t, then maybe that’s your problem. I am not here to give you news. Go read the safe and secure New York Times if that’s what you want. It also seems to me that feminist thought is a little touchy or maybe just out of touch. I understand that women have been repressed throughout history, but I will not be made to feel guilty about what has happened 20 years ago. We should learn the lessons from it and act in a just manner; however, I will not be made overly sensitive to these issues. I will respect women and try to act accordingly, but I will not spend my days searching the dictionary looking for words that may or may not be sexist and try to stamp out their usage. If my refusal to be held hostage by petty people is offensive, then so be it. Oh, and Aaron is still an ignorant slut.

Scott Buchanan ‘01

Sexism? Trophy husbands - Sundstrom suggests Davidson men “sell out”

Coming off the success of our debut column (one respondent suggested I run for president), I am soaring on a high of confidence in my logic and reason. So this week, we turn to the volatile issue of women’s rights, and I am once again going to triumph over my conservative rival. The basis for my argument: Men should be submissive to women. Guys, think about it. Do you really want to hold a 9-5 job for the rest of your life? Do you really want to be charged with the huge responsibility of putting food on the table, earning enough to be comfortable, and putting your kids through college? I say, heck no! So what’s the alternative, you ask? Two words. Trophy Husband. As graduates of Davidson, we, the male products of this great institution, will have all the skills necessary to land a wealthy older woman to support us through our younger years until she dies and we inherit the riches (remember to deny any sort of pre-nuptial agreement so that the house and holdings don’t go to Snuckems, the favored dog). These skills include education so that we may be interesting to talk to. We have social graces, which have been ingrained in our conscience by the southern Aristotelian feel of this campus. And with the beautiful Baker...

Hot tip: invest in sunscreen

Have you seen the news lately? No, I am not talking about The Davidsonian, nor am I referring to the bastion of tree wasting, The Charlotte Observer. I am referring to CNN, or The New York Times, Newsweek, or some other outlet of news that realizes that there is more to life than little Jimmy that fell down a well or some football player’s trial will be on TV. What is more important? Is it the 107.5-year-old woman who has voted since 1920 or the war in Israel, the 17 dead American sailors in Yemen, the hijacked plane in Iraq, and $34 a barrel oil? Why, it’s the old woman, of course. Don’t worry; this article is not another drubbing of The Charlotte Observer. I think that anyone who takes the time to read that paper will realize its limitations. Instead, I have to admit I am a little worried. What am I worried about? No, I am not some little chicken running around screaming, “the sky is falling.” It isn’t falling. Rather, greenhouse gases are eating the sky up at an ever-increasing rate so that within our lifetimes there will be no ozone and Coppertone will rule the world! At the Presidential debate, I was surprised to learn Gore advocates guns for the hunters in Michigan and...Pennsylvania (“vote pro gun gore”?). I was even more amazed to learn Bush is an environmentalist: But then I realized the brilliance of Bush’s plan; he is going to fill the ozone hole in the atmosphere with Houston’s air emissions! And then there is the peace process in the Middle East. Ever since peace was imminent, over 100 people have been killed in Israel and the West Bank, hundreds and maybe thousands have been injured, and 17 American sailors died in Yemen when an American warship was blown up. Just a few weeks ago everything seemed right as rain in the world. Everyone was happy and the biggest concern on my mind at least was that the Presidential debates were incredibly boring. Now, wars, terrorists, and CNN reporters seem to be springing up everywhere. What’s next? Is no one else worried about these incredibly terrible events? Has Davidson succumbed to the vagaries of college football and midterms and ignored the fact that the world is going to hell in a rather large spherical-shaped hand basket? What is it going to take to end this madness? Pardon the ridiculous cliché, but why can’t everyone just get along? Not to worry, I have a solution. I think that Clinton should just go to the Middle East and make Arafat and Barak shake hands and make up. After all, that always worked for my mother when I fought with my brother. It makes perfect sense. Clinton is a lot bigger than either of them; he could easily grab both of their ears, pull them into a room and say, “Ok, now no one is getting dinner until you two apologize to each other.” “Ehud, are you sorry that your troops shot all those Palestinians?” “Yes Bill.” “And you, Yassir, do you apologize for letting things get so out of hand?” “$%\&” “What was that?!” “I mean, yes Bill.” Or, instead, are we going to wait until someone just decides to nuke all of the Middle East and then we send in some marines with Windex to wipe up the glass? The only beneficiary to the fallout could be Coppertone. I wonder if Coppertone gives campaign contributions? Note: At this time, Andrew is recommending to all of his clients that they buy sunscreen-affiliated stocks due to the deteriorating environment, the quality of the Presidential candidates, and the declining prospects for peace in the Middle East. Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Sports Complex, we all may certainly attain Davidic bodily proportions. Anywhere we fall short, the plastic surgeons in Cornelius can certainly sculpt us into acceptance. Running this idea past some of my fellow senior men, the response has been overwhelmingly positive. As interviews are beginning for post-graduate life, many men may now consider the no-resume, no-cover letter option. Instead of that Thursday night information session with Bank of America, the young strapping men of Davidson should head to the trendy Charlotte bar of their choice and spot that lonely-looking woman at the bar with a martini in hand and a posture that screams 1960’s. The strategy from there can be obtained by advice given to me from a friend who used this tactic abroad. Once you spot that woman, pull up a seat at the bar alongside and order a drink. Use a line comparable to “Come here often?” while sipping on your first, self-paid drink. As conversation picks up and your drink disappears, your newly-acquainted companion will order you another drink, and then another, and another. The trophy husband pattern has already shown itself. The idea is simply to move out of the bar and into the woman’s penthouse, beachfront condo, and Rocky Mountain ski lodge. So you see, I’m all for women’s rights. In fact, I think the current affirmative action initiatives should be extended to women. Following the reasoning of affirmative action, there is a heck of a lot of history in patriarchal society to reverse, so men should be banned from working. And speaking of patriarchal society, I would like to point to the evils that are apparent in patriarchy. As we all know, the Catholic religion is one of the most patriarchal institutions widely accepted in America. Women are excluded from the priesthood, and it is openly stated by the Papacy that God (who is a He in Catholicism) does not consider women worthy of leading worship. Now talk about evil. It merely took a viewing of The Exorcist over fall break to convince me of the pure evil that is the Catholic church. I mean, only priests can conjure up the devil in some cute little girl. And man, that language! So you see folks, patriarchy just isn’t cool anymore. What’s cool is trophy husbandry. Perhaps the college should start offering home economics courses specifically for men. I assure you, I’d be the first to sign up. Oh, and Scott, I have one thing to say: Sexist language is violence.

Aaron Sundstrom ‘01

Buchanan’s sexist language not amusing

The following is a response to Scott Buchanan’s Davidsonian article, “Why Al Gore is flat out idiot,” and an explanation of the flyers we posted in Chambers last week. These flyers highlighted the phrases “you ignorant slut,” “beast,” and “comment-whore” in the article and proclaimed: “Unacceptable: Sexist language is violence.” We wanted to draw the campus’s attention to the words and their implications; these words are destructive (and unacceptable), in any context. Yes, we recognize the Saturday Night Live resonance of “ignorant slut.” Of course, we recognize the humorous context of our highlighted words. However, sexist language in the service of humor, allusion, and rhetorical horsing around is still sexist language. Language is power, and language reflects and enforces cultural behaviors. It is disappointing that these words and phrases casually inhabit the conversations of Davidson students—both women and men. Section V of the Code of Responsibility defines harassment as “inappropriate use of sexually degrading language.” Section II.C of the Sexual Harassment Policy encompasses in its definition any language that creates “an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or learning environment.” We should be aware of our discourse—and its implications—not only because our institution requires such consideration, but also because the integrity of our community depends upon it. The equivalent ethnic slur (or homophobic phrase) would never have made it onto a page of The Davidsonian; gender also deserves this conscientious standard. The terminology of equity and respect will not accommodate “slut” and “whore.” We decline to be degraded and objectified, and we refuse to laugh—or to excuse the laughter of our peers—at the expense of women and their bodies.

Lauren Baird ‘01
Cameron Richardson ‘01