10 _THE DAVIDSONIAN_

By Nicole Foreman
Staff Writer

Davidson alumni Michael Stoops and Steve Brady—alongside homeless men from the Charlotte and Washington, D.C. areas—appeared on a campus-sponsored homelessness panel on February 6. Adam Brown, the evening’s assistant coordinator, called the panel “both enriching and engrossing.” He said, “It brought to the forefront the most pressing issues for those who are currently in homeless situations. The panelists had a true inspirational quality that permeated the room.”

Stoops is the Director of Community Organization for the National Coalition for the Homeless, and Brady is on the Speakers’ Bureau. The sobering event opened with Stoops’ slide show entitled “Faces of Homelessness,” featuring homeless persons from across the country. “In this country, there are four times as many animal shelters as there are shelters for battered women,” read one voiceover. “Twenty-seven percent of the homeless are children,” lamented another.

The slide show—that included a song entitled “It’s a Hard Life”—forced those who came to the 900 Room event to think about how the faces on the slides drastically defied their idea of the homeless population. There were more dolls in the hands of the homeless than alcohol bottles. “It’s funny because I like it when the lights go off in the movies because I’m no longer ‘the homeless kid’,” said a Harlem youth. Senior Andrew Holbrook said that he was “baffled that [those homeless scenes were] even possible.”

A panel of five homeless men spoke after the slide show. The men spoke on a variety of issues including lack of sufficient health care, the exploitation of the homeless in labor camps, and public perception of homelessness. Many of them emphasized the fact that “the homeless are people too.”

Charlie Steve, a man from Washington, D.C., calls his home the corner of 15th and L Street. Steve has been homeless for over seven and a half years. He tried to articulate how hard it is for the homeless to face the population that passes him daily. Steve said, “When we’re down and out, we can’t look you in the eye. You have to bend down and look at us.” This man has no criminal record and used to work for IBM. He has been on a waiting list for housing since December of 1994.

Panel speaks on homelessness

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

from Washington. He developed a personal friendship with Michael Stoops after he returned Stoops’ lost wallet with over a hundred dollars and five major credit cards. Burton called gentrification America’s biggest problem. He said, “There exists in this society a trend to make things bigger and better. Landlords cater to the demands for apartments and homes to gentrify, and the tenants occupying those homes can no longer afford to live in them. The poor cannot compete in getting housing.”

Marshall Warren and a man named Charlie, both of Charlotte, were the final speakers. Warren, a homeless man who was orphaned at an early age, explained, “When you’re homeless, you don’t trust yourself or anyone else.”Burton was another man on the panel. Members of the panel sought to debunk myths about homelessness and educate the audience about their situation. Charlie wanted to reiterate the fact that none of the men were born homeless. “Many people are one paycheck or less away from being homeless,” said Charlie. These men cannot get jobs with a blank “address” line on an application, and if someone does hire them, “[they] are the first accused when something turns up missing,” expressed Charlie.

A majority of the audience members who rose to ask the panel questions first conveyed a sincere gratitude for the presence of the men at the event. Most of the audience had questions on the most effective ways to help the homeless. Charlie said, “Don’t be ashamed to say hello. A smile from passers-by means that they are humans—not coldly distant from what the homeless are going through.”

Members of the Davidson community wishing to help with homeless issues should regard the Reach Out! Bulletin Board on the first floor of Chambers. The Uptown Men’s Shelter, Room at the Inn, and the Women’s Shelter all deal with homeless issues, and the contacts for these programs are listed under their respective photographs.

Anna Judy | Heating D

Eligible to return Spring '00 ~ Professional counseling required during interim between withdrawal from Davidson

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

ANN GREGORY Executive Layout Editor
BEN COVINGTON WILL PARKER Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY Assistant Business Manager
PATRICK GI Advertising Managers
Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON News Editors
REISON KALE Features Editor
SETH DAVIS EISEN KALE CARRIE RILEY Op-Ed Editor
Sports Editor Business Managers
CENTE SCHWARTZ BURGIN HARDIN
PETER CLARK DAVID JOHNSTON International News Coordinator
PAUL Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA Circulation Managers
CINDY CLARK DEEN PAS A SPECHAR Editor Emeritus
MICHAEL KRUSE

Honor Code Violations: Fall 1999

10/5/1999 - Guilty of lying about college business
Sanction: Authorized withdrawal for entire Fall '99 semester, effective immediately. No receipt of credit for courses taken during Fall '99. Specific requirements of counseling to be determined by the Dean of Students.

10/22/1999 - Guilty of plagiarism
Sanction: “F” in course. Authorized withdrawal from other three classes. Suspension for Spring '00 semester.

12/15/1999 - Guilty of lying about official college business
Sanction: Continued counseling with DC Counseling Center. Probation from campus social events, PC functions off campus, participation in College athletics, attendance at sports events, and eating house or fraternity activities. 30 hours of community service to be completed in the Spring semester '00. Service hours related to work designated by the Dean of Students.

12/16/1999 - Guilty of cheating, plagiarism
Sanction: “F” in course. Authorized withdrawal from three classes. Required counseling for Spring '00 semester. Specific counseling to be determined by Dean of Students.

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.