10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

Davidson sweeps doubleheader

Press RELEASE Southern Conference

CHARLESTON, S.C.—Tim Frend homered in each game and Davidson rallied from a 6-2 eighth inning deficit in the opener, then
hung on for a 14-13 win over the College of Charleston, en route to a sweep of its Southern Conference
college baseball doubleheader at Remley’s Point Field on Saturday. The Wildcats won the nightcap, 11-6.

In the first game, Charleston tallied five runs in the seventh inning as Ronny Marmol hit a three-run homer and
Mitch Miggenburg added a two-run home run, staking the Cougars to a 6-2 lead. Davidson cut the margin to 6-4
in the eighth when, with one out, a Cougar error allowed a pair of runs to score. Later in the
inning, pinch hitter Matt Berry doubled in Cassidy Lundin and Stewart Sloan, tying the game at 6-6.

In the ninth, the Wildcats used seven hits and an error to score eight times, including five runs with two
outs. Billy Ryan’s two-run double broke the tie, while Trae Fletcher added a two-run double. Frend, Jack Purcell, and Ryan
Stroker collected run-scoring hits in the frame as Davidson took a 14-6 lead to the bottom of the ninth.

In the bottom of the ninth, the Cougars answered with seven runs on six hits and an error to cut
the margin to 14-13. Charleston’s Tradd Denny grounded out to second to end the game with the tying run in
scoring position. Mark Wells (3-0) picked up the win in relief, working one inning allowing six hits, six runs (four
earned), with a walk. Frend earned his fifth save of the season, recording the final three outs in the ninth
despite allowing a run on two hits. Charleston’s Brett Davey (4-1) suffered the loss in relief, surrendering eight runs (only
three earned) on five hits in 1 2/3 innings of work. He walked two and struck out one.

In the second game, Stroker, Berry, and D.J. Dailey collected two hits each to pace the Wildcats, who jumped out
to a 7-1 lead after five innings. Karl Morris led Charleston’s nine-hit attack with four hits in four trips to
the plate, while teammates Kris Conrad and John McCarty had two hits each, respectively. Jamie McDonald (2-3) picked up the
win, working five innings allowing four runs on six hits. He walked two and struck out two. Charlie Wentzky (3-2)
suffered the loss, surrendering seven runs (five earned) on seven hits in five innings. Wentzky walked four and struck out
nine.

In Sunday’s game, John McCarty scored the Cougars’ winning run off Hank Stepleton’s sacrifice fly to center field, capping a
four-run rally in the bottom of the ninth, as the College of Charleston defeated Davidson 11-10. With the win, CofC
improves to 14-14-1 overall and 6-5-1 in conference play while Davidson moves to 18-14 overall and 10-8 in SoCon action.

The Cougars got on the board first in the bottom of the first inning when Rene Perez singled to third
base and Karl Morris singled to right field. After a wild pitch and with runners on second and third, Adam
Smith reached on an error by the right fielder, allowing Perez and Morris to score. In the top of the
second with two outs, an error by the shortstop allowed Davidson’s Cassidy Lundin to reach first base. After five walks
and the Cougars’ second error of the inning, Billy Ryan flied out to right field for the third out, but
not before Davidson grabbed a 5-2 lead.

In the bottom of the third, Tom Perrin doubled down the left field line and scored when Morris singled to
left field. Davidson scored one run in each of the fifth and sixth innings to extend its lead to 7-3.
The Cougars answered in the bottom of the sixth with two runs on a hit and a Wildcat error. Both
teams scored two runs in the eighth, and Davidson led off the ninth with a 9-7 lead. After a single,
sacrifice bunt, and a wild pitch, Tom McGintee scored on a Cougar error, extending the Wildcats’ lead to 10-7.

Kris Conrad led off the bottom of the ninth with a double down the left field line. After a Greg
Alden walk and a Ronny Marmol fielder’s choice, McCarty came to the plate with the bases loaded and no outs.
McCarty tripled down the line, tying the game, and scored on Stepleton’s sacrifice fly. Chris Mattox (1-0) pitched 1 1/3
innings for the Cougars, recording the win, while Tim Frend (1-2) recorded just 1/3 of an inning for the loss.

THE WEEK AHEAD

April 1-2, 2000

East TENNESSEE STATE Bucs @ WILDCAT PARK

Bucs' Record (as of 3/27/99): 6-16 overall, 4-8 SoCon (10th)

The Schedule: The Wildcats host the Bucs in a doubleheader Saturday, April 1, which begins at 12:00 p.m.Second game will
follow immediately. The last game of the series gets underway Sunday at 1:00 p.m. The bad news: Ben Brown won’t
be in the lineup.

April 5, 2000
University of North Carolina Tarheels
@ Boshamer Stadium (Chapel Hill, N.C.)

Tarheels’ Record (as of 3/28/00): 24-5

The latest: Chapel Hill, ranked No. 10 in the nation, suffered its first 3-game losing streak of the year in
its first bout with ACC competition at Georgia Tech. They recovered against N.C. State, going 2-1 against the Wolfpack. The
Tarheels will play one more ACC series at Clemson before hosting the Wildcats.

Spring season underway for Wildcat golf
By David Moncure
Staff Writer

The Wildcat golf team kicked off the spring season with a stellar performance at the William and Mary Invitational March
5-7. The team finished sixth overall out of a field of 24 teams. Captain Aaron Watt recorded the team’s best
score and finished fifth overall in the individual competition.

“Aaron was a huge part of our team unity,” Scott Shupe said. “He led the new players and helped the
team finish strong.”

The following week, the Wildcats hosted the Birkdale Collegiate Golf Classic March 10-12. Largely because of the extreme winds and
rain-shortened second round, the team did not perform as well as they had in Williamsburg.

“The competition has been extremely strong,” head coach Joe Mark said. “We have played against many nationally ranked teams, but
the guys like tough competition to improve their game.”

On March 16, the Wildcat golfers headed to South Carolina to compete in the East Carolina Invitational, finishing 16th after
two rounds of competition, including a second round in which the team shot 312.

“On the first day we showed our capabilities, and we showed we can play with anyone,” said Shupe. “On the
second day, though, we just lost it mentally. We just need to stay focused mentally and realize we can play
with any school.”

“In the first round we shot 292, which was one of our best scores in a while,” said Mark. “On
the second day, the wind picked up and we did not play as well.”

One of the highlights of the East Carolina tournament was Frank Walker’s hole-in-one in the first round.

The biggest thing on the golfers’ minds as far as the rest of the spring goes is the Southern Conference
Tournament April 20-23 in Lexington, Va. For the first time ever, the winner of the tournament will receive an automatic
bid into the NCAA tournament. Mark’s hopes for the tournament rest on the team’s consistency.

“All the golfers are very capable of shooting low numbers, and with some consistency we will post better scores. We
just need to finish strong.”

Sean Davidson remarked, “We have played real tough competition so far, and we are showing a lot of promise.”

“We want everyone to peak at the conference tournament,” added Watt. “We have had one guy hitting the ball well
at each tournament this spring, so we just need to get everyone consistent for this tournament.”

The Wildcats will play in one more tournament before the Southern Conference Tournament—the Furman Invitational April 7-9 in Greenville, S.C.

By Rick Bender
Davidson S.I.D.

Davidson’s senior shortstop and co-captain Ben Brown will miss the next four to six weeks of the baseball season due
to a broken fibula in his left leg. Brown, a product of Charlotte Latin, originally suffered the injury last Tuesday
when he was hit by a pitch in his lower leg. While loosening up prior to the game on Sunday,
the bone snapped, leaving Brown in a heap in the outfield grass.

A career .317 hitter, Brown was enjoying perhaps his best season. Through 28 games, he was hitting .349 and had
scored 34 runs as the team’s lead-off hitter. Earlier in the week, he had hit homers in consecutive games, doubling
his career total. He was among the conference leaders in stolen bases with 20 and walks with 22. In the
field, he was the ‘Cats steadiest performer, committing just six errors at short for a fielding percentage of .952.

Brown was on pace to break numerous career records, including hits (needs 15) and stolen bases (needs five). He had
played in a school-record 180 consecutive games. The game on Sunday against UNC Greensboro was the first he had missed
in his four seasons at Davidson.

“We will miss Ben’s leadership on the field and his ability to get on base at the top of the
lineup,” said Head Coach Dick Cooke. “It’s a shame that he will have to sit and watch after all he’s
done for this team. But we look forward to having him back for the Southern Conference Tournament in May.”

The Wildcats are off to their best start in eight years with an overall record of 16-13 and conference mark
of 8-7. With a speedy recovery, Brown still might have a chance to break some school records. More importantly, Davidson
needs Brown on the field to help the team.
