Cooke Earns Gold Medal with USA Baseball

By Davin Moncure
Staff Writer

Only a few weeks ago, the Olympic sports world watched the United States baseball team shock Cuba in the gold medal game. The US team had pounded its way through the preliminary round, going 6-1, with the only loss coming against the same Cuban team. Then, in the semifinal game against South Korea, the US won in dramatic fashion on a bottom of the 9th homerun by Doug Mientkiewicz. Ben Sheets pitched a gem in the gold medal game, leading the US to a 4-0 revenge victory over the powerhouse Cuban team.

Spectators of Olympic baseball witnessed the dramatic events, such as Sheets’ masterful performance and Mientkiewicz’s breathtaking homerun; however, much more behind-the-scenes work led the United States to a successful run at the gold medal. This is where Davidson’s head baseball coach Dick Cooke enters the story. He was selected as one of only two college coaches to be a part of the Olympic coaching staff.

The 2000 Olympic games was the first time that professional baseball players were allowed to compete, so the coaching staff was also comprised mainly of professional coaches. However, two spots on the coaching staff were reserved for college coaches. The main job of these two coaching spots was to pitch batting practice, and Cooke was selected as the left-handed batting practice pitcher. Cooke had previously been the left-handed BP pitcher for the 1999 US Pan Am team in Canada. The Pan Am Games were the qualifying tournament for baseball. Since the US took home the silver medal in that tournament, they qualified for the Olympics. Hoping for similar success in Sydney, the Olympic committee decided to keep the coaching staff intact if possible, so Cooke got the call again.

“I really wasn’t expecting to be invited back,” Cooke commented. “I figured that they would want to spread the wealth [of being a coach in international competition] to other coaches. As it turned out, there ended up being seven or eight of us on staff who were in Winnipeg last summer.”

The newly comprised Olympic baseball staff met for the first time at this year’s baseball All-Star game in Atlanta. Cooke said, “This was the time when the officials were selecting the roster, so I went to a lot of meetings and did a lot of listening about [the quality of] possible players. The idea was to find mainly AA and AAA guys, building a young, powerful pitching staff backed by older, more established position players.”

“After the meetings in Atlanta, we did not meet again as a staff until we flew out to San Diego on August 31. The athletes arrived on September 1, and we spent three days in San Diego before flying to Australia,” remarked Cooke about the pre-Olympic events. He continued, “We then played six exhibition games before beginning the Olympics.”

Although Cooke’s role as the left-handed BP pitcher was crucial in preparing the athletes for each game during the Olympics, his other coaching staff role as a scout was equally or sometimes even more important. Almost every free minute of Cooke’s off-the-field time was spent preparing scouting reports of the other Olympic baseball teams. The US games were usually played at 7:30 pm, so Cooke spent most of the daytime hours attending other games or watching videos of opponents and making scouting reports of the team. Cooke’s reports helped the coaching staff devise game plans of how to play the opposition. Cooke remarked, “The scouting part was very critical [to the overall picture of each game].”

Unfortunately, Cooke was unable to attend many other Olympic events, since nearly all of his time was spent scouting, pitching BP, or coaching. However, Cooke admitted, “The coaching staff did get to see one softball game. Once you get the competitive edge [by becoming enwrapped in the baseball duties], you just don’t worry about not seeing other events.”

As a member of the Olympic baseball coaching staff, Cooke was included in impressive company, highlighted by head Olympic coach Tommy Lasorda. “Lasorda was so humble that I never once felt intimidated at all,” commented Cooke. “Lasorda and coach Buddy Bell sought to make both myself and the other college coach (Ray Tanner from South Carolina, the NCAA coach of the year last year) feel as if we were a part of the team. Lasorda made things very comfortable for us and always asked us to speak up and voice our ideas.”

Cooke also mentioned how the professional players did not act like the stereotypical, overpaid, overpampered professional athletes: “The players had a blast. They didn’t act like high-priced pros, just your average person having the experience of a lifetime. Players walked around the Olympic village wide-eyed carrying their video cameras to soak up the moment.” He talked about how despite any on-the-field differences between athletes, everyone was a friend off the field, which exemplifies the Olympic spirit. “[One great memory was] hanging out with the Cuban players and coaches after the gold-medal game. In our game in the round-robin tournament with Cuba, one of our players got hit by a pitch and some tempers flared. Players from both teams left the dugout and there was some tension between the two sides. Olympic officials were very concerned that, with emotions during the final game, things may get out of hand.”Out of hand and they would have an international incident on their hands. But the game went smoothly and nobody had to deal with any tempers. Then, after the game, there were our players hanging out with the Cuban players, and our coaches with their coaches.” Cooke summed up that experience by saying, “It just goes to show that the game of baseball can transcend anything, including nationalities and ethnicities.” In regards to the overall experience, Cooke concluded, “Regardless of whether you win or lose, the entire Olympic experience is amazing.” As head Olympic coach and former Los Angeles Dodgers manager Lasorda frequently remarked about his coaching experience, “When the Dodgers win, only Dodgers fans are happy. Giants’ fans and Yankees’ fans aren’t happy. However, when the US team wins, all of America is happy.” Cooke and the rest of the coaching staff and players definitely made American baseball fans happy in Sydney.

Mordini, Volleyball team rebound from loss with two SoCon wins

Press RELEASE

Charlotte 49ers’ head coach Lisa Marston made her return to Belk Arena on Tuesday night in triumphant fashion by leading her volleyball team to a five-game victory over Davidson. The win improves Charlotte to 8-11 on the season, while the Wildcats fall to 11-8. Davidson took the first game of the match by pulling away from a 7-7 deadlock. But Charlotte responded in the second and third games after falling well behind. In the second game, the 49ers recovered from a 9-3 deficit by running off 12 unanswered points, then ran off 13 straight in the third game after falling behind, 10-2. The Wildcats would not die, however, coming back with another 15-11 victory in game four. But the rally-scoring, match-deciding fifth game took its toll on Davidson, as Charlotte led from the outset to complete the two-hour, 25-minute match. The match was the fifth in the last six in which Davidson played five games, winning the first three but dropping the last two.

It was a sweet victory for Marston. Last year, she led Davidson to a stellar 31-4 overall record, a perfect 20-0 mark in the Southern Conference, and its first-ever NCAA Tournament appearance. After the school year, however, she took the head job at the Wildcats’ cross-county rival. Senior Mara Mordini led the Cats in the losing effort with 22 kills and 26 digs. Davidson’s twin juniors, Jacqueline and Jennifer, were the only other Wildcats in double digits in kills with 16 and 11, respectively. Senior Christy Galvin had a big match for the 49ers, recording 23 kills and a match-high 32 digs. Junior Esra Akgun led Charlotte with 28 kills, and senior Ozlem Ozkan Ayture recorded 60 assists as well as 31 digs. At the net, freshman Jessica Kelly was involved in seven of the team’s 11 blocks.

In a crucial away match, the Davidson volleyball team responded in impressive fashion as they swept Furman in three games 15-12, 15-11, 15-13. With the victory, the Cats improve to 12-7 overall and 8-2 in the Southern Conference while the Paladins fall to 8-12 and 7-2 in SoCon action. Davidson and Furman battled back and forth in game one before the Wildcats prevailed 15-12. A .361 team hitting percentage in game two helped the Cats put Furman in a hole they couldn’t escape from. Davidson is now 11-1 on the season when they win game one of a match. Junior Erica Schwartz had an outstanding .417 hitting percentage and 44 assists to lead Davidson. Senior Mara Mordini and sophomore Roberta Quis each had double-digit kills on the evening. On the defensive front, junior Jennifer Ortega was involved in six blocks and sophomore Kaitlyn Martin chipped in with four.

Davidson won only its second match of the season after dropping the first game, by bouncing back to defeat SoCon-rival Wofford 11-15, 15-4, 15-7, and 16-14. This was the second straight victory for the Wildcats and improved their season mark to 13-8 overall and Southern Conference record to 9-2. Prior to this match, Davidson was only 1-7 in contests where they had lost the first game. In the second game of the match, the Wildcats had a .310 hitting percentage while holding the Terriers (3-6, 2-10) to a -.053 attack percentage to even the match. “Wofford has really improved overall since the last time we played them and I think they caught us off-guard at some points in the match,” noted Davidson head coach Tami Darwin. The defensive intensity remained for Davidson in game three, as the Cats held Wofford to a .114 hitting percentage to take control of the match. Junior Jacqueline Ortega led the team in kills with 21 and senior Mara Mordini led Davidson in digs with 18. Sophomore Roberta Quis notched 15 kills with only two errors in the contest. Six Cats registered double-digit digs. Junior Erica Schwartz and freshman Nicole Tonelli combined for 56 assists. “Several of our players contributed,” said Darwin. “We were able to use different combinations and have success this afternoon.”

Mourning sickness: Heat center Alonzo Mourning will miss the entire season with a kidney ailment....the St. Louis Rams defeated the Atlanta Falcons 45-29 despite not having a kicker--they were 4 for 5 on two-point conversions....Converse shoe company is closing its doors, unable to compete.