THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2000

National tragedies cast spotlight on college van safety

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

A recent string of van accidents has prompted college officials across the nation to reexamine traveling policies for university athletic teams.

Less than two weeks ago, four Prairie View A&M track athletes were killed after their van crashed en route to a meet in Pine Bluff, Ark. That accident was the fifth involving a college team in the past two months.

A similar fatal accident occurred on January 13 when Molly Hatcher, a senior captain of the Kenyon women’s swimming & diving team, was killed after the team van flipped over a guardrail near Coshocton, Ohio. Hatcher and her teammates were returning from a meet at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Hatcher's little sister, Emily, was also injured in the crash. Emily, a first-year student at Kenyon, reportedly came to Davidson on an official visit last fall.

Back on this small Division-I campus, the accidents have left many athletes and coaches in a state of heightened anxiety.

Athletic Director Jim Murphy maintains a strict policy, precluding van usage for any trips of greater than four hours or in any instances where a team is expected to return to campus after midnight. But these guidelines don't alleviate all concern.

“I’m nervous,” admits Davidson field hockey coach Jen Halliday. “When I'm driving those vans with my players, their lives are ultimately in my hands.” Halliday’s squad travels in vans to over half of their away competitions.

“You're taking a chance when you travel in vans,” says Rick Bender, Director of Sports Information. Bender, who played baseball for the Wildcats from 1990-93 and then served as an assistant coach on the squad until 1996, remembers the days when Davidson student-athletes typically drove vans.

Most programs now have policies that prohibit students from driving vans, but some still allow 21-year-old athletes who are certified to operate the vehicles. But Bender feels the risk of student-drivers is just too great, “Even if a 21-year-old is certified to drive a van, they’re still a 21-year-old.”

Mary Schwartz, who coaches women’s lacrosse, agrees, “That’s a lot for a 21- or 22-year-old to be driving around. It wouldn’t be safe.” Schwartz cites the lack of experience in student drivers and maintains that she would prefer her athletes be focusing on the upcoming game en route to a competition.

In most instances, coaches and their assistants operate the vans. Most don’t mind the ride to an event, but many cite the return trips as more trying. Schwartz explains that driving home late after a game can be strenuous, “especially after an intense game.”

Murphy, who is in his fifth year at the helm of the Davidson athletic department, agrees that professional bus drivers are always most desirable. “They’re not going to be operating the bus after a lack of sleep. That's their job, that’s what they're there to do. They know how to handle the bus and they're trained in safety measures.”

In order to help mitigate pressure on coaches, Murphy maintains a contingency fund that allows coaches to pay for hotel rooms “if they feel at all uncomfortable driving back at night.”

But not all programs are entirely averse to van travel. Beth Puckett, in her eighth season as head women’s track & field coach, favors the flexibility that vans provide. Track meets often span an entire day and by staggering departure times with vans, athletes competing later in the day can stay on campus to attend morning or early-afternoon classes.

“We’ve never had problems with (vans),” says Puckett, “but on our team, students never drive. Athletes often have to compete all day, so we don’t want them driving.”

Murphy maintains that the department’s standards provide for a great degree of safety. “We are never going to put students in a position of unreasonable risk. Relative to our peers, our policies are comparable if not a bit more rigid.

“However,” he acknowledges, “we can have all the formulated policies that we want, there’s still going to be some risk.”

Sig Ep aids Loaves and Fishes

David MONCURE
Staff Writer

On Saturday, February 19, twenty-two brothers and pledges from Sigma Phi Epsilon participated in the annual spring Sig Ep service project.

Led by junior Dan Lewis, the 22 students went into Charlotte to help out at the Loaves and Fishes Warehouse.

The students from Sig Ep helped at the warehouse for about three hours, sorting food into type-specific cardboard containers.

Lewis described a bustling warehouse, with pledges and brothers throwing food containers to each other in efforts to sort it efficiently. “Basically, there was food flying all over the room.”

The students sorted through four tons of food, far exceeding their expectations. “It really felt good to do more than we were expected to do,” said Lewis.

Junior Toby Murono said, “Everybody enjoyed working together so we accomplished the job quickly.”

Lewis, Sig Ep's service coordinator, was directed to Loaves and Fishes by Jill Williams, Davidson College’s community service intern.

“I’ve done community service in the past,” said Murono. “But this was the most fun I’ve ever had at a service project.”

Scott Herr, a senior and past president of the house, agreed, “I never thought canned foods could be so much fun!”

“If you think about it,” Lewis concluded, “we are really doing a great thing—helping out in the process to get hungry people food.”

Work in Davidson This Summer

Summer Employment in The Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer workers. Positions are available in all departments.

Interested Students should Contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332