14, Wildcats’ slow start costly Spartans open game with 33-9 run and sail to victory By Mike ANDERSON Editor-in-Chief

GREENSBORO, N.C.—The old adage proclaims, “Good things come to those that wait.” Probably good advice. But not for a basketball
team. Davidson learned that the hard way on Saturday, failing to net a field goal during the first four minutes
of play here at Fleming Gymnasium. The Wildcat machinery idled for much of the first half, propelling the third-place Spartans
to a 33-9 opening run and an eventual 75-57 victory.

“I have no explanation for that kind of start,” lamented head coach John Filar. “I wish I did.”

Davidson closed the first half with a 9-0 run of their own, but Greensboro still took a 42-31 advantage into
the half-time locker room. A Janna Magette three-pointer to open the second half cut the deficit to eight, but Samika
Foster answered with a trey of her own to give Greensboro a permanent double-digit advantage.

“We're feeling pretty good about where we are as a team at this point in the season,” said Spartan head
coach Lynne Agee. “Today was a really solid performance.”

Magette led Davidson with 17 points, while Jen O’Brien and Katy Kamp added 15 and 13, respectively. Kamp had a
strong performance, shooting 67% from the floor and leading the team in rebounds.

“Katy Kamp is always such a threat inside,” said Agee.

Davidson shot a decent 42 percent from the floor, but some suspect defense and pitiable rebounding made for a long
afternoon. The ‘Cats were out-rebounded 37-29 by the notably smaller Spartan lineup.

“We've slipped a little bit,” allowed Filar, whose Wildcats moved to 6-15 in Southern Conference play. But, said Agee, “They’re
still a tough, scary team.”

Mike Anderson

Janna Magette (above) and the Wildcats will be looking for a 1999-2000 sweep of the Wofford Terriers when the Wildcats
head to Spartanburg, S.C. for the Feb. 21 contest against the Terriers.

Lacrosse team welcomes new assistant coach Press RELEASE Davidson S.I.D.

Davidson College women’s lacrosse Head Coach Mary Schwartz has announced the hiring of Amy Fine as assistant women’s lacrosse coach.

“Amy’s level of play and experience brings so much to our program and its development,” said head coach Mary Schwartz.

While at Davidson, Fine will work side by side with coach Schwartz and concentrate on the attack players. In addition
to her on-field responsibilities, she will monitor the team’s nutritional program, work with the team’s strength trainer and schedule travel
arrangements.

Fine comes to Davidson after serving a one-year stint as lacrosse coach at the College of William & Mary. She
also coached at Stanford following graduation from UNC.

“I came to Davidson because of this team’s attitude and willingness to learn and work hard,” said Fine. “I think
this is an up-and-coming program that will be a force in lacrosse in the near future.”

While at Carolina, Fine earned Second Team Brine/IWLCA All-American honors and was an honorable mention USWLA All-American in leading the
Tar Heels to the 1997 Final Four. She finished the season as the team’s leader in goals, points and assists
and ranked third in the Atlantic Coast Conference in those same categories. Amy’s on-the-field honors also earned her spots on
the All-South Region first team and the ACC all-tournament team.

Fine graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1997 with a bachelor’s of science in science teaching. She was
a member of back-to-back state championship teams at Mt. Hebron High School in 1992 and 1993.

The 1999 lacrosse team finished the season with a 7-9 record. The ‘Cats graduated three of the top five scorers
in school history and will be looking to senior goalie Lisa Benjamin and juniors Lauren Kenchington and Steph Hunter for
leadership and scoring in the upcoming season.

The Wildcats open the 2000 season Feb. 19 at the South of the Border tournament in Durham, N.C., and play
their first home contest against Duke March 12.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000.Arena, 2:00 P.M. FOX SPORTS SOUTH. A final score of 73-66. February 19, 2000 — APPALACHIAN STATE
MOUNTAINEERS Mountaineers’ Record (as of 2/13): 6-7 SoCon

What To Watch For: ASU’s Natasha Lettsome, a 6-1 junior from the Virgin Islands, is averaging 15 points and 7.4
rebounds per game. Watch for yourself, too, as the game will be regionally televised by FOX SPORTS SOUTH.

Last Meeting: The Wildcats squandered a 51-33 lead and fell to the Mountaineers by a final score of 73-66.

February 21, 2000 — WOFFORD TERRIERS @ SPARTANBURG, S.C., 7:00 P.M. Terriers’ Record (as of 2/13): 4-10 SoCon

What to Watch For: Wofford’s Carrie Colwell is the hottest sharpshooter to hit the Southern Conference this season...the freshman from
Glendale, Missouri, led the nation with a 47 percent clip from behind the arc during her sophomore season.

Last Meeting: Meagan Gleason hit a clutch three-pointer with less than a minute to play, leading the Wildcats to a
67-62 comeback victory over the Terriers.

Davidson ultimate frisbee joins national organization
By Dave Moncure, Staff Writer

Have you ever rounded up a bunch of friends after a hard day of classes to play a game of
ultimate frisbee? Surely you thought you were a pretty good player, too. Well, you have not seen a game of
ultimate frisbee until you have watched the intramural team, also known as the Davidson Ultimate Frisbee Folks (DUFF, for short).
In an average game to 13, DUFF will show you some of the fastest throws, the most amazing diving catches,
and the most intricate plays that you have ever seen in a game of ultimate frisbee.

According to sophomore co-captain Dave Stroupe, DUFF’s practices and games are very fast-paced, much quicker than a normal pick-up game
of ultimate frisbee. This past Saturday the Davidson team traveled to Furman University to compete in its first tournament of
the spring season. Amid rain, sleet, and very muddy fields, DUFF faced Furman, Oglethorpe, and Greenville City (a men’s club
team). Davidson posted a victory over Oglethorpe but lost by narrow margins to both Furman and Greenville City.

“The tournament was a learning experience,” said Stroupe. “We can only improve from here. We did have lots of fun,
though.” The treacherous weather greatly affected everyone’s play in the tournament. At one point there was even a break because
of lightning, according to Stroupe.

The team’s next tournament is at home on Feb. 26. DUFF, led by co-captains Coddy Coddington, Andy Rhodes, and Stroupe,
look to crush Appalachian State, Guilford, and Furman in front of a home crowd on the IMAC fields. “We are
going to get revenge against Furman at home,” asserted Stroupe.

DUFF is also looking to increase its UPA ranking. The Davidson team is now registered as one of the 180
members of the Ultimate Players Association. The UPA is an organization that ranks the college teams according to wins, losses,
and the scores of games (much like college football’s Bowl Championship Series). As a member of the UPA, Davidson will
get a national ranking based on its performance versus any other member of the association. At the end of the
year, there are sectional tournaments based on the UPA rankings. These tournaments conclude with the winners heading on to regional
tournaments and one final national tournament.

This spring is the first time the Davidson ultimate frisbee team has been a member of the UPA because they
were never able to amass the funds necessary to pay the national dues. The team started a frisbee fundraiser —
selling frisbees for eight dollars a piece — and raised enough money to pay national dues and become UPA members.

If you are interested in purchasing a frisbee to help the team out with travel expenses and future national dues
(or if you just need a frisbee to toss around after class), contact Coddington. Aside from the tournament at home
on Feb. 26, DUFF will also head to Columbia, SC on March 18-19; Fredericksburg, VA on March 31-April 2; and
the sectional tournament on April 10-11.

Adam Rocap looks to pass.
