+ BY Liz NEIHEISEL Career Services Intern

There are few tasks that cannot be tackled through the Internet these days. Lawyers and other members of the legal
field now have yet another resource for such tasks: Fastcase.com, an Internet start-up company dealing in digital legal publishing. And
they owe some thanks to Davidson College seniors Jason Hild and Eric Arnold, who interned at the start-up last summer.

This paid internship was announced last spring by Career Services through JobTrak. Specifically, students who selected Washington, DC as one
of their geographic preferences received a targeted email. Out of a pool of 150 applicants from various prominent colleges and
universities, only six applicants were offered positions. Three of those positions went to Davidson College students: Austin Rice-Stitt '00, Jason
Hild '01, and Eric Arnold '01. The remaining positions went to students from Yale, Mt. Holyoke, and Carlton.

The ratio of permanent to part-time help gave the interns a greater role. “There were six intern positions and five
permanent positions at this internet start-up,” said Hild. “That gave the interns the ability to really contribute to the company.”

“I designed the company t-shirt for our softball games,” recalled Hild. “Then they asked me to design the company business
cards and stationery. I’d never really done that sort of thing before, but they let me try anyhow. That design
then set the image of the company.”

“Their attitude about our work was great,” noted Hild. “They were so responsive. Whether they liked the ideas or not,
they were appreciative. We heard a lot of positive criticism.”

Arnold also had a positive experience at the start-up. “A lot of internships you go to and make what you
can of it,” he said. “They went out of their way to make it a good experience for us. We
didn’t have to seek out learning opportunities.”

The interns kept busy over the summer with marketing, market research, content development, technical operations, database design, and operations management.
“I did content research for the site,” explained Hild. “That provided the basis for the site’s services. I also did
marketing research and analysis, some graphic design and branding, and competitor research.”

“My competitors were different from Jason’s, but we were on the same main project,” added Arnold. “Some of the interns
thought the job was very computer oriented, and the interns did have to be proficient, but it was a proficiency
that is not uncommon at Davidson,” said Arnold.

Computer skills were not the only skills needed, though. “The interns would be assigned a specific project and had to
go out and capture all the data and then write a memo to the whole office,” Arnold remarked. “The memos
were critiqued on content and style.”

Fastcase.com was not all work, though. “There would be random trips to Ben and Jerry's,” said Hild. “We played softball
every Wednesday on the Ellipse, there between the White House and Washington Monument. We went to lunch on Fridays. We
even took a trip to a Baltimore Orioles game.”

“The company needed cheap labor, but they wanted to give something back,” asserted Hild. “I appreciated that. They knew what
it would take to keep us happy and busy.”

The company also tried to keep the interns informed about the field of internet start-ups. “They set up luncheons with
engineers from a company called Bitbunch who talked to us about acquiring data for the site,” commented Hild. “Another luncheon
dealt with the financial side of a start-up.”

There were less-than-exhilarating moments with the group, though. “The content research may be the foundation of the website, but it’s
not the most fun,” Hild admitted. “Every few days we rotated administrative duties — phone, filing, and that sort of
thing,” said Arnold. “That was the most boring part of the job.”

Hild, an economics major, has expressed interest in consulting and investment banking, but has not tied himself to either of
these fields. Arnold, a psychology major, has also left his options open. Both, however, truly enjoyed their summer experience on
the Internet.

“We spent the summer surrounded by great people with great ideas,” professed Hild.people turned down serious money to be with
this start-up.” “I’m looking forward to seeing the site go live in November,” agreed Arnold. For more internships like this,
check out www.interncenter.com!

Lynch joins Campus Security, brings wealth of experience
BY THOMAS CULLEN
Staff Writer

Davidson welcomed Marlon Lynch to campus this spring as its new Associate Director of Campus Security. After sitting down with
him for even a short period of time, one can easily see that he has led an extremely rewarding life.
After growing up in Chicago, Lynch attended college at Michigan State University. As a mentor there, he spent time with
Mateen Cleaves and running back Cedric Irvin. Ultimately, Lynch became a police officer outside of Detroit where he dabbled in
such fields as being an undercover narcotics officer, working on a SWAT team, and teaching the D.A.R.E. program.

After leaving Detroit, Associate Director Lynch relocated to Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas where he was a lieutenant. Finally,
he made his last stop here at Davidson College. Associate Director Lynch has come to Davidson with many new ideas.
He feels that his job is about 80 percent administrative and rarely patrols on a daily basis. Yet, if an
officer cannot make his or her patrol, he will cover for them. Among changes he has proposed at Davidson, Lynch
said, “Things I would like to add would be a community policing [program].” This program would entail the interaction between
the Campus Police and the Residence Life Office to discuss such issues as personal safety, alcohol, property, and self-defense.

During the course of the interview, Lynch kindly offered a few stories from his past. It was Christmas Eve 1993
in Detroit, Michigan and Officer Lynch was answering a “shots fired” call as a member of the SWAT Team. Apparently,
a boyfriend had tied up his girlfriend and placed a large stack of phonebooks next to her body. He would
tell her he was going to kill her and shoot the shotgun into the phonebooks and then press the barrel
of the shotgun to her head and burn her. Lynch was called to the scene and went up to investigate
as part of the entry team. With the aid of information from a sniper, Lynch and three other officers opened
the unlocked door and entered the apartment. The boyfriend had put down the rifle and he decided to go back
and get it, but Officer Lynch was not down with that. He and the boyfriend struggled, and, eventually, Lynch broke
the man’s jaw with the butt of the rifle. Needless to say, such practices are not endorsed by Officer Lynch,
but he feels that it was the necessary thing to do at the time.

Associate Director Lynch feels that crime at Davidson is not a problem, but it is here and cannot be forgotten.
Recently, he said that an international student had fifteen hundred dollars worth of plane tickets stolen from his backpack in
the library. Just last week, Lynch received reports of a stolen laptop, calculator, and a backpack. These occurrences are not
meant to instill paranoia, merely awareness.

Relations between off-campus police and Davidson also fall under his jurisdiction. According to Lynch, due to the size of Davidson
and its surrounding counties, the police departments all keep in contact when a Davidson student is involved in a crime.
Simply put by Lynch, “You’re always a Davidson student.” Marlon Lynch has come to Davidson with a positive outlook and
an open mind. His presence provides experience, knowledge, and a friendly face on campus. Lynch best sums his Davidson experience
thus far by saying, “You can appreciate being in an environment like this, because the majority of your contacts are
positive.” With his background of service, loyalty, and courage, Officer Lynch has nothing but positive things to offer our school.

For additional information visit our office at Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165.
