By Set Davis
News Editor

Dorothy Allison’s one-liners could be straight out of a humor book. “The virtue in life is screwing up completely.” “I am what Lyndon Johnson left you.” “I like trash novels, I’m American.”

The woman behind these lines authored "Bastard Out of Carolina," a National Book Award finalist, and on February 1st and 2nd, this award-winning author spoke to a full house in the 900 room. On Tuesday night, Allison, who grew up in Greenville, S.C. and was the first person in her family to graduate from high school and college, presented her own work, prefacing her reading with comments, witticisms, and philosophies on writing and life.

“I’m a realist writer,” declares Allison. Allison’s work seeks to accurately depict circumstances that human beings, particularly Southern working-class people, face. Furthermore, she describes her own writing as the creation of “perfectly terrifying mean stories.” Allison believes that storytelling can be uncomfortable, yet she holds that it is still important to hear these stories. “A story can save your life or mess you up,” says Allison. If a story tries to tell you that no one can ever make a difference, then that story can mess you up, Allison believes. On the other hand, she contends that if a story tells you that there is a God, and hope for change, then that is a story that can save your life.

Following her reading from "Bastard," the story of a Southern working-class family, Allison entertained questions from the crowd. When asked when she believed she settled into a confident authorial voice, she responded that no writer ever gets a confident voice. In her view, writers do and should second-guess themselves. “No really good writer believes they are good,” Allison says. She continued on to say that any kind of confidence in one’s voice comes after a great deal of effort. The writer works, and works.

It was a good week for:
The US Navy. They diverted a Russian tanker near the mouth of the Gulf and announced that they had evidence that its cargo of oil had been smuggled from Iraq and should be seized as a violation of the United Nations embargo on Iraqi oil. Russian authorities angrily denounced the seizure and claimed that the tanker was carrying fuel oil from Iran to the Emirates. While not yet a major diplomatic incident, this comes at a time when US-Russia relations are severely strained.

Peace in the Middle East. Hundreds of people opposed to peace talks between Israel and Syria were arrested, according to Amnesty International in Syria.

Australian soldiers. East Timorese leaders came out in vociferous praise on their behalf after rumors of misconduct and sexual harassment began to circulate among the public.

Taiwan. The US House of Representatives passed a bill that would bolster military ties between the two countries. China, however, condemned the action, saying it would seriously damage US-Sino relations and Bill Clinton said he would veto it.

It was a bad week for:
Austria. The far-right Freedom Party, led by the controversial Joerg Haider, looked set to join a new coalition government. In dismay, the European Union threatened to isolate Austria, while Israel withdrew its ambassador.

George W. Bush. The presidential frontrunner suffered a major setback when Senator John McCain beat Bush by nearly 20 percent in the New Hampshire Republican primary. In the Democratic primary, Vice-President Al Gore narrowly beat Bill Bradley.

Students of Mexico’s National University. Their long-running strike and occupation of the university came to an end in violent circumstances. More than 35 people were injured and 248 students arrested when the strikers were finally ejected from the building.

General Wiranto. The former Indonesian general was indicted for war crimes in East Timor.Defense Minister and Armed Forces commander was ordered to resign by President Abdurrahman Wahid after he was implicated and works, Allison believes, and during that process the authorial confidence comes and goes. In her characteristically humorous way, she calls this conception of writing the accordion theory of writing. Eventually, Allison says, the writer falls into a “really terrific voice,” but the writer should never place unqualified confidence in that voice.

On February 2nd, Allison delivered a talk entitled “The Way Out of No Way: Southern Working-Class Writing.” She spoke about the Tennessee Williams Literary Festival held annually in New Orleans. One year, Allison was asked to speak as a member of the “Grit Lit panel” where she was grouped with several other Southern writers. Allison was particularly struck that the organizers of the festival did not recognize the crucial differences between Southern rural writers and Southern working-class writers when they created the panels. The need for recognition of different sub-categories in Southern writing was a point that Allison returned to again and again during the night.

Also, she touched upon the role of music in life and in her writing. In her view, country music, rock and roll, and the survival of the working class are all tied together. Each is an expression of a rebellious spirit, fighting against the contempt of others. In terms of her writing, Allison says that rock and roll is behind the rhythmic constructions in her work, except for Bastard. For this novel, Allison aimed to capture the rhythm of an earlier time, her mother’s time, so she listened to gospel music and based her novel’s rhythms on it. Underlying her work, Allison believes, is a sense of urgency, power, outrage, and enormous purpose which are all essential to writing. “I write for hope,” says Allison.

The title of her talk came from a gospel song entitled “A Way Out of No Way.” Allison believes that Southern working-class writing gives everyone, especially the Southern working class, the chance to understand, change, and transcend their condition. “People need a place where the truth of their life is a matter of fact,” says Allison. Currently, Allison is actively involved in PENN, a nationwide organization dedicated to promoting the reading of books and the education of children.

Project Life, from page 3. A bone marrow donation is more likely to find a suitable match within his or her racial or ethnic group. Only 302,612 minorities are listed on the Registry, as opposed to over four million Caucasians, therefore a member of a minority group is much less likely than a Caucasian to find a donor. While 7,497 transplants between Caucasians have been performed, only 376 minorities have received bone marrow. Typing a single person usually costs $75.00, but because the American Red Cross realizes the dire need for minority donors, they type all minorities, including African Americans, Native Americans, Asians, and Latinos free of charge.

If you would like more information about Project Life or the upcoming drive, please contact one of the following people:
Rosie Molinary, Community Service and Bonner Scholars Coordinator 892-2298
Katie Bond, Co-chair, Project Life 987-0775 kabond@davidson.edu
Brent Ferrell, Co-chair, Project Life 896-6642 brferrell@davidson.edu