THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2000

in Wildcat history books

spot, and sophomores Jamie and Kerry Brown and Jess Montrella comprised the finest recruiting class in program history.

But rather than seeking to make her mark immediately, O’Brien was a model freshman. Coach Filar describes, “Jen had to know early on that she was one of the best players at that time. But she gave Monica Winter and the upperclassmen so much respect.”

Coaches and teammates alike admire O’Brien’s passion for the sport and reverence for the institution. “She loves the game so much. She loves tradition,” says Filar. “She never takes any of it for granted. She even loves warm-ups, she just loves the feel of the game.

“And that comes from her upbringing,” the coach continues. “She’s been taught to have respect for things that mean a lot to her. Her family is tremendously important to her.”

“She’s not fun to watch when she’s killing us.”

Over the next few years, O’Brien would be a part of some special moments in Davidson basketball history. As a sophomore, she helped guide the squad to a program-best 18-10 record, including a 12-4 conference mark. O’Brien’s individual accolades that season (17.1 ppg, 5.0 rpg) earned her pre-season co-conference player of the year honors for her junior campaign.

During that third season, Jackie Smith of Furman edged O’Brien for the post-season honor. But O’Brien’s Wildcats emerged victorious over the Paladins in all three meetings, including a quarter-final match-up in the Southern Conference Tournament.

“She’s fun to watch,” says Smith, “but especially when she’s playing against somebody else! She’s not fun to watch when she’s killing us.”

O’Brien and company toppled Jackie Smith’s Paladins once again last week, giving Davidson’s Class of 2000 a 5-4 career edge over Furman University.

“I’ve got to try to figure out her secret after this game,” lamented Smith. “She has an ability to set her team on fire and they just take off.”

“She’s just one of us.”

O’Brien’s senior season got off to a slow start as the Wildcats dropped nine of their first ten outings. But she and fellow seniors Kamp and Meagan Gleason refused to go out on a sour note.

“For Jen, it’s just flat-out determination,” says Schott. “She’ll never give up, she just won’t. She’ll persevere through anything.”

Persevere she did. And then some. The Wildcats turned it around, earning key victories over Furman, ETSU, Appalachian State, and Georgia Southern to regain respect in the Southern Conference. O’Brien also hit some personal milestones along the way, surpassing Carolyn Kirsch’s 1376 points to become the program’s all-time leading career scorer. In that very same game, against the College of Charleston, O’Brien also snared her 500th career rebound.

But no one could be deluded into thinking these personal achievements dominate O’Brien’s mindset. “She’s just one of us,” says Schott. “She’s always about team, never about herself.”

“These records don’t mean much to her right now,” says her father, Philip. “But later on down the line, I’m sure she’ll appreciate them.”

“Any team in the country...”

In the meantime, O’Brien has all of her effort focused on one last run for a Southern Conference title. The senior has poured her heart and soul into this final campaign, contributing 18.2 points and 7.1 rebounds per game.

The Middletown, Conn. product raises the eyebrows of all who watch her play. Debbie Leonard, a Southern Conference analyst and television commentator for Fox Sports, proclaims, “Jen O’Brien can play on any basketball team in the country, because she does so many things so well.”

But luckily for Davidson, O’Brien played out her college career in the red and black. Over those four years, she cemented her place in history as the standard by which all future Lady Wildcats will be judged.

“She is the best all-around player I’ve ever coached,” says Filar. “There may have been a better rebounder, a better defender, or a better slasher. But Jen is just phenomenal. She’s a fantastic player, and a wonderful student of the game. And she’s just a wonderful presence on and off the court.”