‘The (Other) Zogby Poll: If the election were held today

By Joey Gerpy and Matt Zogby
Staff Writers

This week marks the debut of a new Davidsonian feature, “The (Other) Zogby Poll,” not to be confused with that other Zogby poll (www.zogby.com). This week’s question was: “If the presidential elections were held today, whom would you vote for: George W. Bush, Albert Gore, ALF (Alien Life Form), and Optimus Prime (of Autobot-Transformers fame)?”

While the two former choices are well-known candidates for the Republican and Democratic parties (respectively), Mr. Form and Mr. Prime have seen recent surges in popularity on Davidson’s campus. In an effort to better educate the public on these potential candidates, we would like to brief Davidson students on their campaign platforms.

Mr. Form has been in the public spotlight since 1986 when his hit sitcom debuted on NBC, and it is not surprising that many compare his transition into the political realm to that of Ronald Reagan, a fellow Hollywood thespian. Animal rights activists have expressed concern over ALF, as he is known to eat house cats. One activist commented, “[ALF’s] disregard for precious animals is alarming.” However, ALF’s fans have already set some specific policy goals for his administration because of his record of eating house cats. His opinions on immigration are rather lax compared to some of his contemporaries. Being from the planet Melmac himself, he appreciates the plight of illegal aliens in this country, which he has been known to refer to as “The Promise Land.”

Student reactions decidedly mixed after presidential debates

By Matt Garfield
News Editor

Not since the last episode of “Survivor” have so many Davidson students gathered in front of their televisions. Only this time they didn’t tune in to see whether it’s Richard or Colleen who gets voted off the island. This night was about George and Al.

The Young Democrats hosted a party last night in Cannon Hall’s first-floor lounge—complete with Papa John’s pizza and sodas—to watch the first of the three presidential debates. Most of the roughly 30 students who filled the room supported Vice President Al Gore over Republican Governor George W. Bush, and an informal poll taken just after the debate indicated they were satisfied with Gore’s performance.

“Overall, he came off more intelligent,” said Young Democrats co-president Hannah Brown ‘02, who thought Gore was strongest on the issues of education and abortion. Bush supporter Alison Heck ’04 said she’s willing to overlook Bush’s shortcomings as an orator. “If only he were more eloquent,” she said of Bush. “Gore did a better job of debating, but I don’t think public speaking has much to do with being a good leader.”

Said Gore near the end of the debate: “If you entrust me with the presidency, I may not be the most exciting politician, but I will work hard for you every day.” The line drew boisterous laughter and applause from the student audience.

Many students, like freshmen Tom Anstrom and Paul Godfrey, congregated in the hallways after the debate to discuss the candidates’ performances. “I thought Bush looked overconfident and often unprepared,” said Gore supporter Anstrom. “I think he went out of his way to attack Gore.” “I thought Bush’s attacks were pretty well-timed,” countered Godfrey, who supports Bush. “I think he held his own.”

US opposes standing UN force

By Harry Dunphy
Associated Press Writer

The United States opposes establishing a standby U.N. force ready to intervene quickly in international crises, Undersecretary of State Thomas Pickering said. But he and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, both former U.S. ambassadors to the United Nations, said U.N. peacekeeping operations must be improved, given the increasing number of instances where humanitarian intervention is needed to prevent loss of life.

Pickering said while setting up forces in member countries ready for U.N. peacekeeping operations “needs to be looked at, I am not in favor of the U.N. having a standing military force.”force.” He, Richardson, and four other former U.S. ambassadors to the world body, commented Monday during a discussion at the private Council on Foreign Relations. A special panel set up by U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan has recommended a drastic overhaul of U.N. peacekeeping operations, creating the equivalent of a defense ministry to ensure troops can deploy quickly in a crisis.

The panel proposed that the 188 U.N. member states form several brigade-size forces of 5,000 troops each that could deploy in 30 to 90 days. The panel envisions a more professional, high-tech peacekeeping operation than the present one, which has been blamed for ignoring the warnings of the 1994 Rwanda genocide and for failing to help save thousands of Bosnian Muslims from a Serb massacre in the town of Srebrenica. Through conflict prevention and other measures, Pickering said, “We should be able to defeat the need for peacekeeping forces, but we won’t, so we have to do better.” He also said a professional civilian police force needed to be developed for use in places such as Kosovo or East Timor because peacekeeping troops deployed there are not trained for law enforcement.

Richardson said strengthening peacekeeping operations would be one way to help the United Nations regain its focus. “But this effort has to be properly channeled by participating states so that peacekeeping gets revitalized,” he said. Richardson also said the U.N. Security Council, which makes decisions about the use of peacekeeping forces, needs to be expanded to bring in countries such as Japan and Germany and regional representatives from Asia, Latin America, and Africa.

Many feel tackling an issue like this is inexcusable. It simply isn’t appropriate for the president of the United States to dine on animals that are so dear to our hearts. It’s an issue of family values; that could be your little Fifi. Mr. Form has also indicated that the space program will improve by leaps and bounds under his administration. Optimus Prime was also involved in television early in his career. As the leader of the Autobots in a galactic battle of good versus evil, he has shown excellent leadership skills. His experience in battling an evil force like the Decepticons, his infamous nemeses, prepares him for such minor problems as the nation’s health care and education. Critics have argued that Mr. Prime has been somewhat two-faced in the past and has seemed to waffle back and forth on issues. One critic was quoted as saying, “It is as if he is two different entities at times.” As his campaign slogan says, Mr. Prime is often, “More than Meets the Eye.”

Optimus Prime has promised to increase military spending although many people think this measure would prove unnecessary considering he could single-handedly protect the nation from foreign attack. After all, he is a very large battle robot, the likes of which have never been imagined (except on the planet Cybertron). Mr. Prime is also in support of further investigation into the benefits of artificial intelligence. The truck driver’s union has already issued their official endorsement for Optimus Prime for President 2000.

In order to evaluate these latecomers’ effects on the race, the (Other) Zogby Poll decided to gauge public opinion at Davidson. In a surprise breakthrough, Mr. Prime currently is in the lead with 29%. Gore followed with a whopping 22%. ALF came in third with 14%, and Bush received 12% of the votes. It seems ALF and Optimus Prime have shown that there is dissatisfaction with the major party candidates. The remaining 19% of the votes were dispersed among various write-ins. In the lead for the write-ins were Ralph Nader and Joshua Fireseed (whose campaign slogan is “A Thousand and One Points of Light”). Also mentioned were Joy Gerdy, Jesse Ventura, Aileen Waters, and James Zogby (Matt’s dad). One write-in candidate, Ms. Anna Padget, led all possible candidates temporarily with eleventy billion votes before it was discovered that “eleventy billion” is not even a real number...yet. Votes for Ms. Padget were removed from consideration because of suspicion of tampering. (She received all her votes when one of our pollsters asked her to hold the clipboard while she went to the bathroom.) Christina Ritchie gave no response, claiming ignorance.