= - By RICHARD VINSON Editor-in-chief

Davidson’s Symphony Orchestra gave an impressive performance this past Sunday, November 12, in what new conductor Milton Crotts described as
a “very ambitious concert.” The concert featured the music of American composer Aaron Copland and also included Beethoven’s Symphony No.
7. Davidson College Presbyterian Church provided a comfortable, if somewhat overpowering, venue for the two hundred or so in attendance.

The first selection, Copland’s Fanfare for the Common Man, performed by the Brass Ensemble under the direction of Dr. William
Lawing, made the most of the sanctuary’s acoustic qualities. From the initial crash of the gong to the final chord,
the listeners were undoubtedly wide awake for the whole performance. Noted Matt Barus ’02, “I thought it was a little
loud myself.”

After the Fanfare, the rest of the orchestra filed on stage for more Copland. The group gave a very sensitive
rendition of the Prelude from the First Symphony. They followed that up with the Hoe-down from Rodeo. Both pieces, as
was characteristic of the afternoon’s selections, called for great rhythmic discipline on the part of the musicians. Crotts agreed that
his choices for the concert were “rhythmically very difficult.” In the case of the Prelude, the contrasting, dissonant lines provide
little in the way of...

---

Pearl Jam vs. Nirvana: who’s the real ‘King of Grunge’
By THOMAS CULLEN Arts & Living Editor

Critics around the world have deemed Nirvana the quintessential grunge band. However, I feel that Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam
is just as, if not more, influential. The only reason that Kurt Cobain is given the title of King of
Grunge is because he is dead. If he were still alive today, he would just be a normal rock icon.
Due to their powerful lyrics and continued success, I am here to tell you that Pearl Jam are the real
Kings of Grunge.

I must admit that I am not a connoisseur of Nirvana’s early albums such as Bleach and Incesticide, but of
what I have heard I am definitely not a fan. The only Nirvana song that I truly enjoy is the
unplugged version of “All Apologies.” The only real plus I see to Nirvana is that it spawned the Foo Fighters.
According to me, the real star of Nirvana was and still is Dave Grohl. His ability to play drums as
well as front a multi-platinum act is unheard of in modern music. All of this is grand, but nothing in
Nirvana compares to the raw power that is Pearl Jam.

Hitting the scene in 1991, Pearl Jam released Ten. It is unfair how good this record is. The album sways
from electric grunge on “Evenflow” to heavy bass-driven songs such as “Jeremy,” all while addressing socially important issues. Their ability
to speak of important issues in a relatable manner is at the root of Pearl Jam’s success. They have addressed
everything from domestic abuse (“Animal”) to the corruption of society (“Do The Evolution”). The unique lyrics of Eddie Vedder accompanied
by the hard guitars of Mike McCready and Stone Gossard make for incredible live music. Seeing the band live leaves
one in awe. Not only do they show the audience why they are so successful in their live shows, they
vary the songs up a bit to keep the audience on its toes. I saw them on the 1998 Yield
tour, and they were magnificent.

After Ten, the band offered up Versus, a collection of songs that followed up their wonderful debut in the best
possible way. The band experienced some commercial troubles with Vitalogy and No Code, but these records were great. In 1998,
the band released Yield, which was easily their best record since Ten. Now in 2000, the band has released Binaural,
which is a little different but still a good record.

In retrospect, Nirvana was a good grunge band that failed due to the death of their lead singer. Yet, in
my opinion, even had Cobain lived, Nirvana would have never held a candle to Pearl Jam.

---

“Oops! I Crapped My Pants” begins week of improvisational entertainment in Black Box
By DAN TAMAROFF Special Contributor

Wednesday, November 15, marks the beginning of the Davidson improvisation group’s week-long staging of their ad-lib comedy entitled “Oops! I
Crapped My Pants.” Much to the tune of Comedy Central’s “Whose Line is it Anyway,” the performance places its twelve
cast members in a series of twenty-one separate improvisational games broken into two hour-long sets. Many of these games place
the cast members at the mercy of the audience’s every whim, forcing them...To continue a scene in the face of
the absurdity created by the audience, which often makes for a hysterical series of quick wit and modern social humor
only found in improvisational theatre. Andy Blanton’s ‘01 character, combining elements of the WCW with the professional chess circuit, will
make you laugh until you cry. The twelve cast members include Blanton, Marty Benson ‘02, Chris Brantley ‘01, Trey Davis
‘01, Parker Dixon ‘01, Matthew Hurt ‘01, Emily Mendenhall ‘04, Christina Ritchie ‘03, Alan Stevens ‘04, Dan Sutko ‘03, Chas
Willimon ‘02, as well as actor/director Matthew Moretz ‘01. The student-run improvisational group will hold performances November 15-17 at 7:30
pm, Saturday, November 18 at 7:30 pm and 11:00 pm, and a bonus Sunday 2:30 pm staging. The running time
is roughly 2 hours. A $4 ticket charge is payable at the door. With only 70 tickets available, every seat
in the intimate Black Box theatre is close to the performance, which translates well with the interactive nature of the
improvisational theatre. Due to the strong language and adult content which may arise with any true improvisational theatre, “Oops... crapped
my pants” is not recommended for younger audiences.

Rhythmic cues for the performers. As a result, they were obliged to pay very close attention to staying together. At
the other extreme, Hoe-down relies to a great extent on repeated patterns and syncopated figures. At times the orchestra seemed
to be struggling to keep the repeated notes crisp and distinct. Those difficulties took care of themselves as the group
moved into the next section of the concert. The orchestra accompanied mezzo-soprano Diane Thornton, studio teaching assistant in voice here
at Davidson, for a cycle of six Old American Songs. The mood shifted greatly and often between the different pieces,
from melancholy, to reverent, to light-hearted. Both orchestra and soloist seemed to have no trouble at all negotiating the rapid
changes. The instrumentalists kept themselves in the background and responded well to the subtleties of Ms. Thornton’s voice. “I thought
Ms. Thornton did an excellent job,” added musician Andrew Oster ‘01. After a brief intermission, the orchestra got underway again
with Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony. As before, the rhythmic figures of the piece required particularly close attention to keeping each run
clear and sharp. The effect of the precise execution was quite impressive. In particular, during the second movement, the orchestra
managed to capture the predominantly somber tone while keeping the pace moving. “I thought they performed the second movement flawlessly,”
praised Barus. All present had positive things to say about the concert. Erin Berry ‘02 said she thought it was
a “pretty good concert overall. They put a lot of time into it, and it turned out well,” she remarked.
Oster concurred and complimented the variety of pieces performed. “They had a nice mix with the Fanfare for brass, a
few orchestral works, and then a song cycle. It was well done.” “I know they’re performing this twice, and if
the first performance went this well, the second will be great,” speculated Barus. Crotts also offered high praise for his
students. He compared the challenging repertoire to a “baptism by fire,” which he thought the orchestra withstood very well. He
also emphasized members’ ability to hear each other and make adjustments during a performance. “The symphony members can all listen
very well. I can’t take credit for that,” he commented. Davidson’s new conductor also remarked on the high level of
commitment and leadership among orchestra members. “I knew I was dealing with a special group when I came to the
office one evening to discover the second violins having an informal sectional rehearsal. A few days later, I found the
violas doing the same. I hadn’t called either of those sectionals, and I didn’t even know about them,” recalled Crotts.
“Their success is a credit to the fine, dedicated musicians in the orchestra and especially to the leadership of the
senior members.”

STUDY OUTSIDE NEXT SEMESTER

The Castle Rock Institute sponsors an off-campus study program that combines Humanities courses and outdoor adventure activities.

- Earn 16 hours of Humanities credit
- Enjoy hiking, climbing, biking, and paddling
- Live with a small group in a mountain lodge
- Work closely with your professors

Limited space available for Spring 2001: Feb. 5 - May 14

Call today, or visit the CRI website to request an application.

Castle Rock Institute
P.O. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712
828-862-3759
