‘The Davinsonian. Gore’s education agenda: A test of national responsibility

By SEAN BROOKS AND BEN TERESA
Special Contributors

“Public education is the cornerstone of our nation’s democracy and the basis of our prosperity,” asserts Democratic presidential candidate Al
Gore, underlining the importance of public education and his belief in a national responsibility to provide high-quality public education.

While Al Gore supports public school choice and competition, he is an opponent of school vouchers: “vouchers...drain our public schools
of funding for children who need it the most—those who cannot afford to go to a private school. I am
strongly committed to bringing truly revolutionary change to our public schools.”

In addition to a touted dedication to improving and not abandoning failing public schools, Gore proposes to hold teachers to
high professional standards, to invest more in early education and after-school programs, and to make higher education more affordable. Gore’s
agenda includes holding states and schools accountable for results, as each state would be required to identify failing schools and
work to improve them. Every student in a failing school would have the opportunity to transfer to another public school
or have after-school help so the student would not fall behind while the school is improved. The plan calls for
the reopening of the school under new leadership with a record of success or reopening possibly as a charter school.

Gore believes, “Public school choice and competition are essential if we want to push schools to the highest possible levels
of excellence in education,” which he hopes to accomplish through his plan of public school choice and increased charter schools.

The educational plan includes higher standards and accountability for teachers as well: “We should treat teachers like professionals - we
should pay them like professionals - and we should hold them to high professional standards.” The plan calls for every
new teacher to be tested and meet a high standard before entering the workforce. To receive federal funding under Title
I, every classroom must have a qualified teacher by 2004, and under Gore’s higher standards/higher pay initiative low-performing teachers would
be improved or removed.

Gore proposes $115 billion in increased funding for early education programs and childcare. By 2002 he projects to expand the
Head Start program by 950,000 children. Under his plan, funding would also go towards preschool with a “developmentally appropriate curricula
that prepare children for success in reading and in school.” Gore emphasizes that “studies show that investment in early education
pays tremendous benefits in terms of higher IQs, higher reading and achievement levels, higher graduation rates and greater success in
the workplace.”

Included in the educational agenda are elements to make higher education more affordable. The College Opportunity Tax Cut would allow
for a tax deduction on tuition, while the proposed 401(j) accounts would allow the saving of money free from taxation
for continued education. Gore clearly stresses that his plan is not to abandon the public school system, but to hold
it accountable for improvement.

Gore’s running mate, Joseph Lieberman, comments on the accountability for performance element of Gore’s agenda, “The plan put forward by
the Vice President today provides a bold strategy to help America meet this goal by creating a tough, comprehensive accountability
system...It would give states and local districts considerable support to help lift up failing schools and raise academic achievement, but
it would at the end of the day demand that our educators produce results.”

Bush calls for greater accountability, greater freedom of choice

By LEE ANN PETRY
Special Contributor

Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, “Intelligence is not enough. Intelligence plus character - that is the true goal of
education.” Believing this to be the ideal of the American educational system, Governor George W. Bush has committed himself to
reforming the national public school system.

A self-proclaimed optimist, Bush feels that the prosperity of the United States is directly linked to the education of young
men and women with the necessary skills and character to succeed. By creating this “culture of achievement,” Bush has agreed
to limit the federal government’s role in education to ensure that the children, instead of the educational system itself, are
properly served by federal money and decision-making.

Included in this academic reform is Bush’s goal of enhancing moral education in the classroom so that students will cultivate
and adhere to morals that will guide in their discernment of right and wrong.

Bush is credited with successful educational reform in Texas and hopes to implement similar types of reform at the national
level. His main objectives of educational reform are aimed at reducing federal government in the local education system, at providing
equal educational opportunities for underprivileged children, and at developing a state-administered test used to measure a student’s skill and level
of competency.

First, Bush wants to narrow the achievement gap at the national level between children from low-income families and their contemporaries.
His proposal is to permit low-income students at a consistently failing school to attend a different public school or to
allocate part of their federal funding to pay for a different educational option (tutor, charter school, etc).

Additionally, he suggests extending the Pell Grant to low-income students excelling in high school math and science courses, establishing a
$1 billion Math and Science Partnership to bolster math and science education at the state and university level, and a
$3 billion Education Technology Fund to optimize students’ use of technological resources to enhance their education.

Second, Bush strives to guarantee that all children will be literate by the 3rd grade. His “Reading First” program and
his reform of Head Start programs are designed to accomplish this goal.

Third, he wants to make schools more accountable for their performance by restoring local control of the school systems. With
this accountability comes the expectation that schools will set high standards for themselves and have greater liberty to fulfill those
standards. Consequently, the national government expects each state to develop its own testing system as a way to measure student
comprehension and skill in reading and mathematics. Bush proposes setting up a $500 million fund to reward schools with improved
student scholastic performance, with the consequence that schools in decline will lose part of their funding.State distributed federal funding. Bush
also favors increased funding for special education programs in compliance with the Disabilities Education Act. These standards will encourage more
schools to provide better services for their students. Fourth, Bush stated that he thought parents should actively seek out and
choose from among the variety of available options of which school to send their child, from kindergarten to college. By
doubling the number of charter schools and by exempting taxes on funds withdrawn to pay for kindergarten through college expenses,
Bush seeks to provide sufficient opportunities for parents to make a wise choice on where to send their children.

Fifth, the enactment of a teacher accountability system and the allocation of $2.4 billion to fund state recruitment and training
programs demonstrates Bush’s belief in strong, intelligent teachers who will provide students with academic and moral guidance and education. Increased
resources will improve teacher quality, allow for the development of “at-risk” youth schools, and increase the creation of charter schools.
Furthermore, Bush allocated $1.7 billion to assist local school districts in constructing in excess of $5 billion worth of new
classroom facilities. Finally, Bush promises to enforce juvenile gun laws for safer school environments that enable students to learn and
not come to school in fear. Bush aspires to see educational standards rise so that more students gain access to
better academic facilities and so that children from low-income families have comparable education opportunities available to them. By instilling an
appreciation for education and by promoting the development of moral character, Bush is reforming the public school system to produce
citizens equipped with intelligence and character.

UCA urges students to vote
By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

As the election approaches, students at Davidson are already busily campaigning. These activists, however, will not be advocating tighter environmental
controls or the merits of free trade. In fact, they don’t care who you vote for. Members of United Community
Action (UCA) are distributing information for first-time voters and for users of absentee ballots this Thursday from 10-2 in Chambers
Gallery. UCA is publicizing two websites, election.com and rockthevote.org. From these sites, users can download voter registration forms and absentee
ballots. Ida Wainschel ‘01, UCA member, emphasized the importance of student participation in this particular election. “I’ve read that this
presidential race is going to be the closest one in a long time. I think voters our age, particularly students,
are going to sway the decision if they participate in the election.” She also stressed the time constraints facing first-time
voters. In some states, the deadline for registration could fall as early as September 15.

Continued from previous page

Loh: Don’t bother

In a moment of anger, Wesley scalps Del in plain view of the camera. It is a disgusting moment, and
what it is doing in a comedy, who knows. It wouldn’t be funny even if Nurse Betty were a dark
comedy, which it is not, despite what you may read. For a scalping to be funny, any scalping, it would
have to be in a movie that is way over the top, a movie like American Psycho. And Nurse Betty
isn’t over the top. Having witnessed the scalping, Betty is traumatized, and she packs her bags and heads to California
in search of Dr. Ravell (Greg Kinnear), a fictional character on a soap opera. Betty is in love with him,
and her trauma causes her to think Dr. Ravell and his television show are real. At the same time, back
in Kansas, the hitmen begin searching for Betty for two reasons. First, unknown to Betty, her car is full of
drugs. Second, Charlie has fallen in love with Betty. Eventually, all the important characters and unimportant characters wind up in
Los Angeles for a nice, tidy conclusion. Wrapped up in the plot is an interesting parallel between Charlie - the
mean, yet professional, soon-to-be retired hitman - and Betty - the gentle, graceful nurse. Both Charlie and Betty have fallen
in love with idealized characters. Betty loves the fictional Dr. Ravell, and Charlie loves his romanticized version of Betty, who
would never fall for a soap star. This comparison is the heart of Nurse Betty. Indeed, the movie is interesting
and smarter than most films. But it is disjointed. The tone of the movie is off. There are jokes that
a child could laugh at, and then there are jokes most adults would not understand. There are scenes that are
violent and others that are so gentle that pretentious melodramatic music plays in the background. Violence, gentle comedy, vulgarity, and
gore can exist in the same movie and work. The Coens’ Fargo is a wonderful example. Nurse Betty is not.
LaBute, a playwright and director, made one of the best films I have ever seen - In the Company of
Men. With Nurse Betty, his standard has been lowered a bit. Yes, Morgan Freeman and Renee Zellweger deserve much praise
for their work in this film, but as for the film as a whole and its screenplay, which won a
prize at Cannes, they simply miss the mark.

Joslin: Don’t miss it

“The intricate layering of the plot and the depth of the characters within Nurse Betty intrigued me. Appropriately, the credit
has already been bestowed on its deserving writers. Neil LaBute’s screenplay for Nurse Betty won the “Best Screenplay” at the
Cannes Film Festival this year. The plot is unpredictable and engaging as well as inventive and quick-witted. Also, the performances
by Zellweger, Freeman, and Rock are a must-see. Zellweger brings a naiveté and believability to the role of Betty, the
devoted housewife. It is difficult not to sympathize with her after the way her chauvinistic husband treats her. I certainly
can’t blame her for falling in love with a soap opera character! At least Dr. David Ravell exhibits some ounce
of decency. (Even if he is completely fictitious.) The casting of Freeman and Rock puzzled me at first, but I
realized the reason why it was done. Freeman’s subtlety created an interesting balance because Rock, who is known for his
obnoxious style of comedy, did not seem to be as abrasive as usual. This duo exuded an energetic chemistry that
surprised me. Nurse Betty is a refreshing change from the formulaic blockbusters that have come out over the summer, so
don’t miss this film!
