The Davidsonian

Austin Peay latest victim in Cats quest for perfect season

By James HAMPTON
Staff Writer

Last Saturday’s convincing 22-7 victory over host Austin Peay State (2-8) gave the Wildcats their ninth win of the season
and set a new school record for most wins in a football season. It marked Davidson’s 16th consecutive victory dating
back to last year’s record-breaking season. The Wildcats remain tied with Robert Morris for the longest win streak in 1-AA
and maintain a perfect 9-0 season record.

Ryan Hutto sparked the Davidson scoring by breaking through the middle to block an APSU punt, which Cats sophomore Graham
Elmore picked up at the Governor 15-yard line and ran for the game’s first touchdown. Daniel Hanks nailed the PAT
to give the Cats the 7-0 lead just five minutes into the game.

The Davidson defense put more points on the board as junior Sam Fraundorf delivered a hammering sack on Austin Peay
quarterback John Sheppard, causing a fumble and safety as the ball rolled through the end zone. The Cats followed up
the safety with a seven-play drive capped off by a touchdown on a QB keeper by sophomore Paul Nichols. The
highlight of the drive was the 23-yard completion from Nichols to Mike Chase.

Austin Peay responded with a 67-yard drive instigated by a 31-yard run from running back Brandon Garner. Garner finished the
drive with a rushing touchdown from the one-yard line. The extra point was good, cutting the Davidson lead to 8.
An APSU interception spoiled a Wildcat scoring drive in the middle of the second quarter. But the DC defense took
a stand at its own 23-yard line and forced the Governors to attempt a 37-yard field goal. Freshman Darryl Childers
bolted around the end and blocked the kick.

Davidson broke a 30-minute scoring drought late in the third as Bryan Fish capped off a 48-yard drive with a
flying leap over the defensive line. It was Fish’s eighth TD of the season. Adam Elmore eliminated all hope for
APSU with an interception in the red zone with 6 minutes left. Defensive lineman JJ Rice put the finishing touches
on a tremendous defensive effort by the Cats with a leaping interception with just under two minutes to go. He
trucked it downfield 46 yards to seal the game.

Fish’s 110-yard effort gave him his fifth 100-yard game of the season. Fish needs just 48 yards rushing in the
season finale next Saturday against Georgetown University to become just the second Wildcat ever to rush for more than 1000
yards in a season. The Wildcats will host the Hoyas at Richardson Stadium at 1:30 p.m. Memories of last year’s
amazing 4th quarter comeback in which the Cats scored 21 points in the final seven minutes to defeat Georgetown 28-27
are sure to haunt the contest. A victory Saturday would give Davidson football the first undefeated season in Davidson history
by any varsity athletic team.

Press RELEASE

All-Americans Second Team in the NorPac Tournament

GLEN ALLEN, Va. - Senior Lea Jaeger earned yet another honor for her success on the field in the 2000
season. This time she was named to the 2000 AstroTurf/National Field Hockey Coaches Association Division I Regional All-American Second Team.
Kim Ceci, a 1999 graduate, is the only other Wildcat to ever earn this distinction. She was tabbed the NorPac
Offensive Player of the Year and made the NorPac All-Tournament team as well.

Jaeger, a forward from Morgan Hills, Calif., led the NorPac Conference with 31 points. Her 14 goals were also the
most by any player in the league. Her four assists tied her for second most on the Davidson squad. This
season, Jaeger started all 22 games for the Wildcats and led the team with 101 shots on goal. In the
single-season Davidson record book, Jaeger’s senior year performance puts her third in goals scored and points tallied. During her four-year
career at Davidson, Jaeger amassed 21 goals, 10 assists, and 52 points. She leaves Davidson tied for third all-time in
career assists by a Wildcat player. She was one of only three players from the NorPac Field Hockey Conference to
make the Regional All-American list.

Davidson ended the season with a 49-13 overall record and second place in the NorPac.

Volleyball enters the SoCon Championship at number one

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Though it lacked the immortality of last year’s 20-0Cinderella sweep of the Southern Conference, Davidson once again captured the regular
season SoCon crown, ending conference play with a 16-4 mark. The Wildcats edged perennial powerhouse Chattanooga by a single game
to secure the top seed entering this weekend’s Southern Conference Tournament. “Our girls played amazing this year,” said first-year head
coach Tami Darwin. “I’m very proud of them.” Davidson rounded out its final week by taking two of three matches—sandwiching
a disappointing loss to Appalachian State (8-15, 15-12, 1-15, 15-12, 15-9) between a pair of three-game victories over East Tennessee
State (15-13, 15-6, 15-3) and Greensboro (15-2, 15-7, 15-7).

Only the top eight teams in the 11-member conference earned the right to compete this weekend—in seed order, Davidson (16-4),
Chattanooga (15-5), Furman (15-5), Western Carolina (14-6), Appalachian State (14-6), East Tennessee State (8-12), College of Charleston (6-14), and UNC
Greensboro (5-15). Georgia Southern (5-15), Wofford (5-15), and the Citadel (0-20) failed to make the cut.

Though the conference season has been marked by acute parity, Davidson remains a favorite to capture its second straight conference
title. “We are the team to beat,” Darwin acknowledged. “But we have to do our best to prepare for each
match, our goal is to not take anybody lightly.” The Cats have defeated every team in the conference this season,
but have shown signs of vulnerability as well—falling to sixth-seeded Appalachian State and taking five games to defeat eighth-seeded ETSU.

“I think the tournament is going to be very exciting this year, because of the way the regular season has
gone,” said Darwin. “Teams have been up and down throughout the year, so any team that is peaking right now
can make a strong run at it.” A number of Wildcats finished among the conference’s best in categories ranging from
hitting percentage (Roberta Quis—.302), kills (Mara Mordini—4.41 per game), assists (Erica Schwartz—12.28 per game), blocks (Jen Ortega—1.12 per game), and
digs (Mara Mordini—3.37 per game).

Athletics Director Jim Murphy had proud words of commendation for the program, especially given the departure of Southern Conference coach
of the year Lisa Marston at the end of last season. “In any coaching transition, it usually takes two to
three years before everybody gets used to the new system. I’ve seen the best of programs literally go to their
knees because of a poor coaching transition,” Murphy said. “But Tami has stepped in...and taken these girls right back to
another regular season championship. We're very proud of the job she’s done.”

Davidson faces off with #8 Greensboro in the opening round on Friday. Start time is 1:00 p.m. in the John
Kresse Arena.

---

Wrestling finds bright spots in weekend tournaments

Press Release

The Davidson wrestling team began their season this weekend at the West Virginia Tournament and the VMI Invitational. The team
split up as the upperclassmen participated at West Virginia while the freshmen began their collegiate careers in the VMI Invitational.

Over 40 Division I schools were represented at the West Virginia Tournament including many of the powerhouses from the Pennsylvania
and Ohio regions. Senior Dan Carman finished with a 3-2 record at WVU and was just one match away from
placing in the 125-pound class. Fellow senior Anthony Albert also started the season off on a good note, going 2-2
for the day. “I’m very surprised we did this well, especially with the high level of competition that was here,”
stated head coach Tom Oddo.

The freshman part of the team entered the VMI Invitational. Freshman Mark O’Hair was the only Cat who placed at
the invitational, picking up a fourth place finish while going 4-2 in the 165-pound division. He picked up three straight
wins in the consolation bracket to advance to the third-place match before defaulting to Dante Lawson from Carson-Newman due to
an injury. Also competing at 165 was freshman Gary Brandt. Brandt picked up two wins on the way to advancing
to the semi-finals in the main draw and eventually had to wrestle O’Hair for the right to battle for third
place. Freshmen Adam Sperling and Brian Werstler each tallied their first career collegiate wins in the 157-pound bracket. Werstler went
2-2 on the day including a major decision over Justin Trenta from VMI.

The entire wrestling team will be competing at the Old Dominion Tournament next weekend in Norfolk, Va.
