THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000

International

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

East Timor. In an emotionally charged visit to a massacre site in the small nation, United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan promised that the organization was committed to rebuilding the shattered territory. The UN runs an interim administration in East Timor while the country struggles to recover from a wave of violence that devastated it after the vote.

Yasser Arafat. The leader of Palestine signed an accord with the Vatican, which warns Israel that unilateral decisions on the status of Jerusalem are “morally and legally unacceptable.”

Russia. The Secretary-General of NATO, George Robertson, visited the nation and made an announcement which effectually resumed Russia's ties with NATO. Ties between the two parties had been severed during NATO's war in Kosovo.

Cameroon. The nation won the African Cup of Nations 2000, Africa's prestigious soccer tournament, when it beat favorite Nigeria in a thrilling and controversial final.

Belk 007.

Looking for summer housing?
Applications for on-campus housing will be available March 1st in RLO, Belk 007.

Applications accepted until April 15th on a first-come, first-serve basis provided all criteria are met. Questions, call Judy Klein at x2341, or stop by.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Humanitarian aid to Iraq. This week saw the resignation of Hans Von Sponeck, the top UN official coordinating humanitarian aid to the stricken country. Jutta Burghardt, the head of the World Food Program in Iraq, resigned as well. Both came under pressure following comments blaming the United States and Britain for the failure of the oil-for-food program in Iraq.

Bangladesh. A nation-wide strike turned violent when 40 homemade bombs exploded in the capital city of Dhaka. The strike is the latest in a series called by opposition parties to force an early general election.

President Kim Dae Jung. The South Korean leader upset several of his people when he said that Kim Jong Il, the communist leader of North Korea, was a man of “considerable judgment and knowledge.” The two divided countries remain formally at war.

General Wiranto. The former Indonesian armed forces commander was officially suspended from the cabinet pending an inquiry into his role in the massacres that occurred in East Timor last year.

Ecuador. The new government sent a bill to Congress to replace their national currency with the dollar. However, indigenous groups whose protests brought down the previous government for a similar course of action, threatened to oppose this move as well.

President Robert Mugabe. After more than 20 years, Zimbabweans finally voted against the president. In a referendum, the majority of the country vetoed a plan to amend the constitution to allow Mugabe to stay in power for an additional 10 years.

Work in Davidson This Summer

Summer Employment in The Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer workers. Positions are available in all departments.

Interested students should contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332.