_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Spam, It’s Mmmm...Catherine Zeta-Jones.... BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP. “Aaaaaahhhhh!” Oh, I think to myself, it was only a dream, knowing full well that whomever or whatever I was dreaming about could never survive reality. Since I am already awake, and have Humanities in fifteen minutes, I decide to get up for the day. I climb out of my leaning tower of mattress and make my way over strewn clothes, old newspapers, and various sticky substances to my desk. There I wake my baby from her gentle slumber, as I habitually do every morning, and check my e-mail. “Wow,” I think to myself, five e-mails...somebody up there must really hate me. Whose Machiavellian idea was it to turn e-mail into high-tech chain letters? Why has the average e-mail become the thing that strikes terror in my heart?

To Whom It May Concern:

My name is Joe Schmoe. I have no arms and no legs. I lost them in the civil war in my poor, misbegotten country. My father lost his job because multinational corporations like Microsoft are taking over the world and destroying indigenous businesses. If you send this e-mail to three hundred trillion other people in the next nanosecond, The Gap will donate clothes to me so that I can keep warm in the cold winter months ahead. Did I mention that we have no heat and live in a shanty with only three and a half walls? (A half of one was stolen last winter.) If you do not forward this e-mail immediately, you will never, ever have any type of physical pleasure in your wretched little life. Thank you for listening to me and helping out my fraudulent, Errr, I mean worthy cause.

Does this sound familiar? If you have ever used e-mail (an electronic means of correspondence using the Internet for those of you who are convinced that I am speaking Sanskrit) you know exactly what I am talking about. It has become almost a daily ritual. My e-mail is now a curse that I cannot escape. I have tried everything. From telling people to cease and desist, to deleting them off-the-bat, to going to the witch-woman in Georgia who spit in my hair. Hey, the treatment came with a free dead muskrat, so who am I to complain? But, they keep coming. What is this phenomenon? How has it managed to entice so many of my good friends when Pokemon, the Monkees revival, and the Bubonic Plague all passed them by? Is it because they think that I am interested in the little poem that they have not authored but that they think is cute? Or maybe it is that they are absolutely convinced that after my frontal lobotomy I believe that AOL is going to send me a dollar for each person to whom I forward this e-mail. Some of them are funny. I will give you that. But, I really don’t need another list of how to piss off the employees of Wal-Mart, and I’ve already heard all those dumb blonde jokes. Allow me to let you in on a little secret kiddos: there is no such thing as a free lunch.

Note: Despite Andrew’s ranting and raving, he actually does like to get those “stupid little forwards.” They make him feel like he has friends, and that is good for his self-esteem. If you were wondering about last week’s article, it was missing its second half due to a publishing error. Finally, if you would like to help out Joe Schmoe, please send donations to his legal representative in the United States, Andrew MacDonald. P.O. Box 2922. Davidson, NC 28036.

Andrew MacDonald ’03

Into the Streets 2000

Volunteers for Into the Streets, which began January 17 and ended on February 13, completed almost 1400 hours of service. Despite falling short of its goal of 2000 service hours, Jeremy Campbell, Into the Streets coordinator, said, “several new and exciting programs were started, more of the campus was exposed to the life of service, and an overall positive feeling was engendered.” Particularly successful were visits to a pediatric rehabilitation center in downtown Charlotte, Joshua’s Farm, potato bagging, and the Faces of Homelessness panel.

Every Thursday for two hours during Into the Streets, students visited the Pediatric Rehabilitation Center at Carolina’s Medical Center in downtown Charlotte to spend time with hospitalized children recovering from burns or suffering from congenital defects. Campbell emphasized that the hope these kids have, despite facing obstacles such as cancer, was emotionally powerful to the volunteers.

On Saturday, January 22, and Saturday, February 5, students visited Joshua’s Farm in North Charlotte, a farm for handicapped adults and children. At Joshua’s Farm, all barns, fields, and horse trails are handicapped and wheelchair accessible. Davidson volunteers performed maintenance and blazed trails in preparation for the farm’s grand opening at the end of April. A Davidson group, led by Carlos Lacayo, will continue to volunteer biweekly at Joshua’s Farm.

Approximately 45,000 pounds of potatoes descended upon Davidson College on Friday, February 4. Thirty volunteers from the Carolinas as well as 40 Davidson students worked to unload, repackage and distribute 50-pound bags of potatoes, shipped in from Maine. Since these potatoes did not meet grocery store standards for size, they were sent to institutions throughout North Carolina for free distribution to those individuals in need of food.

On Sunday, February 16, Michael Stoops and Steve Brady, of the National Coalition forThe Homeless gave a presentation about the Faces of Homelessness panel. Their presentation was another highlight of this month’s theme of service. The presentation began with a slideshow depicting the lives of the homeless and continued with a panel of three homeless men from Washington, D.C. as well as three from Charlotte. These men spoke about their experiences as homeless people, their frustrations with the welfare system, and the stereotypes they struggle to dispel. Although this particular month was packed with service opportunities, there are still many service opportunities in the community for interested students. Consult the Reach Out bulletin board in Chambers for upcoming events.

Lee Ann Petty ’01
Betsy Noble ‘01

The Hat of a Young Snowman

I sing of arms and of a hat: his fate
Had made him fugitive; he was the first
To journey from the room of Andrew as far
As the Well and the perimeters of Davidson.
Across the lands and pathways he was battered
Beneath the violence of the Winter Storms, for
The savage Shadow’s unforgetting stupidity;
And many sufferings were his in traveling—
Until he was found and saved
And carried home to his owner;
From this have come the legends, the snowman
Of winter, and the faith of the high Honor Code.

So, the Snowman cameth and he wenteth. Through the destruction of the Snowman began a new journey. An adventure of epic proportions: the travels of the Top Hat. It all began one snowy afternoon many weeks long past. The year was new and it brought fresh hopes, dreams, and snow to Davidson. With the snow came revelers and with the revelers came the Snowman. Constructed through many arduous hours of slave labor, this edifice was to stand for all eternity (or at least the night) as a reminder of the carefree days long since past. But, the Fates intervened. Within decades (hours, really) of the completion of this monolith came a great plague of inconsideration and with it came the Shadow. His identity is not known to this day, however his deeds are infamous. Every child is told of his actions, every schoolgirl sings jump rope songs about the Shadow. Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men, the Shadow knows...

The Shadow left that poor, bedraggled Snowman in pieces amongst the matted snow and grass. He left that unfortunate soul scattered on the cold hard earth, not buried and not mourned. The ghost of Snowman still lingers in the Underworld, searching for a purpose, for rest. But, the Shadow did not stop his path of pain there. No, he continued full steam ahead as he grabbed the Top Hat from the ground and raced off like a Wake Forest fan leaving the Belk Arena. Where did the Top Hat travel from there? Well, deciphering its exact path is akin to translating ancient Egyptian bathroom humor, but I shall give it a shot.

The Top Hat’s journey began, as it was tossed casually aside on Main Street. It then was kicked up by an 18-wheeler that passed over it and landed in the back of a gardener’s pickup truck. He didn’t make it far before Bette Midler, who was picking up litter on the side of the road, assailed the truck after the gardener threw a can out of his window. His littering days were numbered as she chased the truck down and returned the can. He was soon flying off a cliff in that truck. The Top Hat lay there and reminisced about its long life. Now, listen my children and you shall hear of the midnight ride of Paul “The Top Hat” Revere...

The Top Hat was born in a haberdashery in fledgling Washington, D.C. A rail-splitter from Illinois purchased it and before it knew what was going on, it was on the head of a man giving some kind of address. It was in this small town in Pennsylvania... It next surfaced in London, England. There it encountered a certain young man by the name of Ripper, Jack Ripper to be exact. He grew tired of the hat and sold it to a pawn store. It remained there for over a hundred years until a young infantryman purchased it on his way to war. In the Falkland Islands in 1982, it saved the British army from utter defeat as the Argentinean General stopped to pick it up and put it on. While admiring himself in the mirror, the British sneak-attacked and routed the Argentineans. Then the Top Hat woke up and realized it had blown back onto campus and was soon picked up by a student traveling to the Fetish Festival. There it learned why certain things are better left unexplained. The individual returned to campus and dropped the hat off by the library, where it remained until two days ago. The Top Hat’s brim fell slack with chill; and with a moan, his life, happy, fled to his owner nearby.

The End

Note: The benevolent Adam, in collaboration with the wonderful Darial (Ariel with a D) and her amazing comrade Leslie, returned The Top Hat late last week. Inspirations for this article were among the following: my Humes paper on the Aeneid (thanks Prof. Manning), my 10th grade World History Class, the Simpsons episode about Bobo the Bear, my opium-induced haze, and the ingenious people at Kraft. Macaroni and Cheese is, in fact, even cheesier!!

Andrew MacDonald ’03

Correction: The photos taken at last week’s GRC Fashion Show were taken by Amber Worrell.