6 THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000

Review: Final ‘Scream’ takes a stab at horror greatness

By PHILIP STEWART
Staff Writer

What an endlessly funny and surprisingly satisfying movie this is! Scream has become more of a personality than a movie trilogy. Fans of the series have by now become extremely comfortable with its characters and pop-culturally influenced humor (“Pop culture has become the politics of the 21st century!”).

But while the first Scream films owed much to the slasher movies of the late 70’s and the 80’s, this ‘final’ chapter takes more from its own series. No less than three scenes in Scream 3 mirror classic moments from the other Scream films, but that by no means implies that the token homages are missing. Two great moments will please avid Hitchcock fans and even Jay and Silent Bob of “Clerks” and “Dogma” fame make a hilarious cameo.

The film opens typically, if audaciously, with a short exposition and a grisly murder, but this time the victim is a major character, igniting a fear in the audience that anything can happen to anyone this time around. Sydney (Neve Campbell) has locked herself away in a quiet Monterey home where she is a crisis counselor for women. Dewey (David Arquette) and Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox Arquette) are reunited on the set of Stab 3 (Try to follow me here) the movie within a movie of the events surrounding the murders from the first two Scream films. New faces include the brilliant Parker Posey (Waiting for Guffman), playing Gale Weathers in Stab 3, and Jenny McCarthy who plays Sydney’s dead best friend Tatum (who inexplicably didn’t die in Stab) from the original Scream.

The complexity of the plot is part of what makes the film so fun, but if you have not seen the first two Scream films, it would be a huge mistake to see this one. They all figure out that the killer is offing people in the order that they die in the script of Stab 3, but unfortunately there are three different versions of it for fear that the ending would be exposed on the internet (an actual problem encountered in the filming of Scream 2). Also add to the mix that pictures of Sydney’s dead mother are left with the bodies. As Randy (Jamie Kennedy) explains to us via posthumous video tape, in a true trilogy an event from the past that no one knew about at the beginning of the series will come out of nowhere and explain everything, just like in Return of the Jedi and the Godfather III. It is through that video that one realizes how much Randy’s character is missed, and the scene is almost touching in a strange way.

Parker Posey fills the shoes of Randy, and keeps the great comic flare in the film. The constant banter between her and the real Gale Weathers is comic gold. In fact, most of the film is hilarious, even in the gory moments. The killer throws one character out a window towards the pool; we expect to hear a splash, but instead...but instead we hear a thud as he hits the concrete—all the action stops so that viewers have time to laugh and catch their breath. Ads claim that this Scream is the scariest, but I must say that honor still belongs to the first. It is, however, the funniest, and does have what is quite possibly the best scene in the trilogy, one involving five cell phones, a fax machine, and a power outage.

@ Two Summer Sessions
@ French Immersion Program
@ Desktop Publishing and Web Design Programs
@ Cultural Excursions

The American University of Paris
6 rue du Colonel Combes
75007 Paris, France
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 07 20
Fax (33/1) 47 05 34 32
New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414
Website: http://www.aup.edu
Email: summer@aup.edu

Be a global citizen at GW's Madrid Study Center located at Spain's prestigious Universidad Autonoma. Complement your classroom learning with field trips, excursions, and other rich cultural experiences in one of Spain’s most exciting cities—Madrid.

FALL SEMESTER 2000

WASHINGTON
An equal opportunity / affirmative action institution
Application Deadline is March 1, 2000

COURSEWORK IN
Spanish Language, Culture and Literature
INTERNSHIPS
COURSEWORK TAUGHT IN ENGLISH
Europe in the 20th Century
Contemporary Spain
International Marketing
International Economics
European-Atlantic Nations

Contact us today or visit our website:
(202) 994-1649
www.gwu.edu/~studyabr/madrid.htm

Significantly better than the more cynical second film, it still has its flaws putting it a notch (albeit a small one) below the original. The opening scene, normally the scariest in the films, is not on par with the Drew Barrymore and Jada Pinkett-Smith murders in the first two. Also, the ending is a bit disappointing but brisk enough to be entertaining, and even then is made up for in a terrific epilogue. By killing off a lead character at the outset, the tone is always a bit unsettling. In the second one, you knew Sydney couldn’t be killed, but “in the third one, all bets are off.” Ehren Kruger (“Arlington Road”) wrote the script, and my initial fears of his not keeping with Kevin Williamson’s characterizations melted away in the first 15 minutes. The screenplay is juicy and complex, a claim very few ‘Part 3s’ can make (except maybe Wes Craven’s own Dream Warriors, the third and best Nightmare on Elm Street film). Scream 3 is a real treat for Scream fans, and brings a satisfying close to the horror trilogy. Grade: A-

C.O.T.O.: Chocolate on the Outside
a play by April Turner

Please come and join the Davidson College Black Student Coalition, the Union Board Cultural Events Committee, and the Office of Minority Student Affairs as they present C.O.T.O. Friday, February 11, 2000, 7 PM in Hodson Hall on the campus of Davidson College.

Hey Davidson College Class of 2000!!!

The following Davidson College Fellows Program (formerly the Davidson College Intern Program) positions are now available for application:
* Reunion Coordinator—Alumni Relations
* Laboratory Manager—Chemistry Department
* Assistant to the College Archivist—E.H. Little Library
* Assistant to the Director—Dean Rusk Program
* Production and Promotion Assistant—Music and Theatre Departments
* Laboratory Manager—Physics Department
* Evening Facilities Manager—College Union
* Union Program Advisor—College Union

Apply Immediately!!!!