The Davidsonian
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2000

Wildcat football runs winning streak to 10
By WILL ROBERTSON
Sports Editor

The Davidson football team ended nine years of frustration against Emory and Henry with a 17-14 Homecoming win over the
Wasps. The Wildcats dominated the game statistically from start to finish, but were forced to make big plays down the
stretch to preserve the victory. The win was Davidson’s tenth in a row dating back to last year, and improved
this year's record to 3-0.

The Wildcats struck first, on a 43-yard field goal by Daniel Hanks with 1:13 left in the first quarter for
a 3-0 lead. Throughout the first half, Davidson was able to advance the ball but struggled to score. The Cats
stretched the lead to 10-0 after quarterback Paul Nichols scored on a one-yard run with 32 seconds left in the
half. The Wasps quickly responded to get right back in the game with a 44-yard touchdown pass from Shannon Johnson
to Dorsey Hooker as the first half expired to trim the Davidson lead to 10-7.

Neither team was able to score in the third quarter, setting up the dramatics of the final stanza. The Wildcats
were able to increase their lead to 17-7 early in the quarter as junior Ward Gibson found paydirt from 13
yards out to finish off a 12-play drive. With about ten minutes remaining, Davidson had a chance to effectively end
the game, but Gibson was stopped on fourth-and-goal from the 1 and the Wasps gained possession. Emory and Henry proceeded
to go on an 11-play, 99-yard drive and close the gap to 17-14 with only 4:52 to go.

The Wildcats were then forced to punt and rely on their defense to finish off the game. The Wasps looked
very impressive as they marched down the field looking for the tie or the win. Using a short passing game,
Emory and Henry advanced the football with apparent ease. Then came “The Hit.” As Emory & Henry receiver Richie Rode
caught a pass over the middle, Wildcat defensive back Adam Elmore delivered a crushing blow. Rode’s helmet flew about five
feet in the air and he was forced to leave the game with two cracked molars. Though Rode made the
catch, the play seemed to pump up the Wildcats defense and the Homecoming crowd.

Emory and Henry was able to advance the ball all the way to the Wildcat 13 with under a minute
to go, but two penalties for illegal receivers downfield and one for an illegal substitution pushed the Wasps back to
the 28. Now out of field goal range, quarterback Shannon Johnson launched a bomb towards the end zone. Davidson cornerback
Ryan Crawford leapt to the sky and corralled the pass for his second interception of the game, preserving the Wildcat
10-game winning streak.

While upset that they were unable to put away the Wasps earlier, the Wildcats definitely have a lot to feel
good about. One mark of a great team is to be able to make big plays down the stretch. The
Cats clearly did that on Saturday.

Davidson has the week off this Saturday, with two weeks to prepare to avenge last season’s 40-0 loss.loss to Morehead
State on October 7.

Game Notes: After earning I-AA Special Teams Player of the Week honors the last two weeks, Ryan Crawford earned the
honor for his defense this week. Crawford intercepted two passes and blocked a field goal in Saturday’s win. Davidson’s 10-game
winning streak is currently the longest in I-AA. Robert Morris is second, having won nine straight. First-year coach Joe Susan
is just the second coach in Davidson football history to win his first three games. The other was Homer Smith
in 1965, and he later led the Cats to their only bowl appearance in 1969. Prior to Emory & Henry’s
touchdown as time expired in the first half, Davidson had held its opponents scoreless since the first quarter of the
first game two weeks ago. The Wildcat defense remained among the top ten in the nation in all four defensive
categories — rushing defense (62.67 yds./game), passing defense (10th, 111.0 yards/game), total defense (5th, 173.67 yards/game), and scoring defense (6th,
7.0 points/game).

Mike Anderson ice is loose — By Jacki Davidson Sports Editor

Anytime the Wildcat defense is on the field, you don’t have to look hard to find Ryan Crawford. Just locate
the football and Crawford will be somewhere in the vicinity. In his last year as a Wildcat, Crawford, also known
as the defensive “playmaker,” continues to be a catalyst for his team and a source of both frustration and admiration
for opponents. In just the first three games of the season, Crawford has been a one-man wrecking crew, returning the
opening kickoff for the first touchdown of the season, blocking 3 punts and a field goal, and tallying two interceptions.
One contributing factor to Crawford’s success is Davidson’s strong defensive line, which shuts down most running games and forces teams
to pass to him.

Success on the field, however, is far from new for the North Carolina native. His superb junior season earned him
a spot on the I-AA All Independent Team as well as Associated Press I-AA First Team All-America accolades, making him
the only other Wildcat to do so other than Johnny Mackorell. As the season progresses, Crawford will undoubtedly continue to
solidify his position as an eminent defensive player as well as a force on special teams. He is already on
pace to surpass his interception mark from last year and his number of kicks blocked in his career as a
whole.

In light of Crawford’s recent dominance of opponents, I offer one piece of advice to opposing teams: BEWARE. To Mr.
Crawford, I simply pose one question: NFL?

INSIDE....

Mara Mordini

The Wildcat senior was named SoCon volleyball player of the week. In two victories, Mordini recorded 29 kills and 35
digs with a .313 hitting percentage.

Volleyball wins a pair
Men’s Soccer downs Air Force
Women’s Soccer opens SoCon season 2-0
The 72° hurdle
Charlotte sports in disarray

THE WEEK AHEAD

MEN’S SOCCER
Sept. 30 The Citadel 3:00
Oct. 3 VMI 6:15

WOMEN’S SOCCER
Sept. 29 Col. of Charleston 7:00
Oct. 1 @ Georgia Southern 1:00

VOLLEYBALL
Sept. 29 Georgia Southern 7:00
Sept. 30 Wake Forest 7:00

FIELD HOCKEY
Sept. 30 Radford 2:00
Oct. 1 Catawba 2:00

CROSS COUNTRY
Sept. 30 @ Greensboro Invitational
