“Ability is what you're capable of doing. Motivation determines what you do. Attitude determines how well you do it.”
-Lou Holtz

Grand slam lifts Wildcats in ninth over Duke
By Rick BENDER
Davidson S.I.D.

Stewart Sloan delivered a one-out grand slam in the bottom of the ninth inning to give Davidson (22-18) a 7-6
victory over the visiting Duke Blue Devils (13-27). The win gives the Wildcats a sweep over Duke this season, having
defeated the Blue Devils Feb. 16 in another one-run contest, 4-3.

Down 6-3 to start the ninth, Davidson got the baserunners it needed. Senior pinch-hitter Eric Bowers started the rally, drawing
a lead-off walk from Duke’s sixth pitcher of the day, Kevin Perry. Ryan Stroker followed that with a four-pitch walk
to bring the tying run to the plate. Perry gathered himself to strike out Jack Purcell, but after throwing a
ball to Tim Frend, he was replaced with Ryan Caradonna. Caradonna (4-6) fell behind 2-1 in the count to Frend
before leaving a change-up up in the zone, which Frend smoked into left for a base hit to load the
bases. With the count even at two balls and two strikes, Sloan fouled off a change-up low and away to
stay alive. Then, he jumped on a fastball for his game-winning homer, his sixth of the year.

The grand slam made a winner out of pitcher Matt Hood (2-1), who did not give up a hit over
the final 2-2/3 innings. The Davidson bullpen was also a hero, as Hood and Nate Ramirez allowed just one hit
and no runs over 6-2/3 innings.

Sloan is no stranger to game-ending heroics. Twice as a sophomore, he had walk-off hits. The first came in the
final conference game of the season and clinched a spot in the Southern Conference Tournament for Davidson. The other came
in the final game of the season against UNC Asheville, which was coached by current Duke head coach Bill Hillier.
The Southern Conference Player of the Week last week, Sloan has driven in 15 runs in his last four games.
Last week, he went 10-for-16 (.625) with three doubles, a home run, and 11 RBIs to earn the honor.

The Wildcats have now won seven games this season during their final at-bat, six of those wins coming at home.
In fact, the last three home victories came on walk-off hits. Davidson plays at Winthrop, one of the Wildcats’ ninth-inning
victims last week, Thursday afternoon at 3:00 p.m.

Men score win over Elon
By CURTIS HERRINGTON & Matt Peters
Staff Writers

The men’s tennis team found victory this weekend in the Knobloch Tennis Center over the Fightin’ Christians of Elon, which
came in boasting a 12-2 record. The Wildcats began the day with some extremely close doubles matches. Playing the No.
1 spot, Brett Ialacci and Alex OlulskiLost an extremely close match 8-4. “We were right there, so close to the
top, and then we let up,” said Ialacci. At the No. 2 spot, Whit Hansen and newcomer Jakub Sramek, who
was filling in for the injured Billy Boykin, posted a win over an extremely tough team and played surprisingly well
together. “Jakub and I play much better as a team than me and Billy,” said Hansen after the match. Stewart
Sloan was selected Southern Conference Player of the Week. Sloan set a career-high with five hits, including two doubles and
a three-run homer, and seven RBIs in a 15-14 win over Winthrop on April 6. At the No. 3 spot,
Chris Herrington and David Webb fought back from a huge deficit to beat Elon’s duo of Mark Woodforde and Todd
Woodbridge, 9-7. “We were down two breaks early, but we kept playing tennis,” a relieved Webb commented after the match.
“We decided to switch sides today. I made the call right before the match started, which startled David a little
bit,” said Herrington. The pair did look a little disjointed, especially after they went down 3-0 early. After some big
backhand returns, forehand volleys, and big serves by Herrington and a strong lunging volley from Webb, the two put together
an intimidating attack. See Tennis, page 14.

BASEBALL
4/21 @The Citadel 7:00 p.m.
4/22 @The Citadel* 1:00 p.m.
4/25 North Carolina A&T 3:00 p.m.

Men’s TENNIS
4/15 UNC Greensboro 2:00 p.m.
4/16 @Chattanooga TBA

Women Rediscover Victory
By Joe StoltENOW
Davidson S.I.D.

It had been five matches since the Davidson Wildcats put up a notch in the win column, but Tuesday they
defeated the Wofford Terriers in women’s tennis at home on Covington Courts. Forbes Thompson won 6-1, 6-0 in No. 1
singles and Elizabeth Moreno won 6-2, 6-1 in No. 2 singles. Wofford forfeited No. 6 singles and No. 3 doubles.
The win marked the fifth consecutive victory over the Terriers for Davidson. Each match was won in straight sets with
the lone Wofford victory going to Casey Enfield. She defeated Yasamine Hilu 6-3, 6-2 at No. 3 singles. Kelley Cantrell
remained dominant in the SoCon with a straight-set victory at No. 4 singles, improving her overall mark to 12-5 and
7-1 in the conference. Senior Anna Holland was honored as the only senior on Senior Day and she responded with
a straight-set victory. Davidson heads to Chattanooga next Monday for the final regular season match and Wofford heads to East
Tennessee State Saturday.

Coming Up
Southern Conference Tournament
UT-Chattanooga
Chattanooga, Tenn.

Davidson lacrosse travels to Music City, returns with a win

Hometown sports report: Panthers make 200 Draft selections pg. 14

Wildcats prepare to face No. 1 baseball team in the country pg. 11

Former hoops assistant joins the head coaching ranks pg. 10
