THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2000 : 3

Cuba waits for Elian as custody battle moves ahead

HAVANA (AP) — As news trickled in about dramatic events unfolding on the other side of the Florida Straits, Cubans anxiously awaited the return of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez.

“It is the hour for this drama to end for the good of Elian and his desperate father,” said Leida Ruseau, a 66-year-old cleaning woman who watched live CNN feeds of the crowds Thursday outside the home of Elian’s Miami relatives. Ruseau was one of a small group of Cuban workers who crowded around a large color television at a foreign press center set up for journalists covering a summit of leaders from developing countries.

“That great-uncle is a kidnapper who has made an entire family and an entire nation suffer,” she said. “If the United States had acted with more authority in this matter, the child would already have been back with us,” added Jose Ramon Montano.

Very few Cubans have access to foreign television reports. Most have had to rely on the Cuban government to provide them with updates on the case during a “round-table discussion” on state television at 5 p.m. daily. Still, most of those who had not seen the reports on American television knew about Thursday’s deadline for the Miami relatives to turn over the child to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who flew to the United States last week.

Some of the current developments were reported on government-controlled Radio Reloj and the noontime Television Rebelde. On the government program in the evening, viewers were shown video clips of everything that had transpired in the previous 24 hours: a news conference by Attorney General Janet Reno on her order to the Miami relatives to turn Elian over to his father, Elian’s great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez defying the order, a homemade video of Elian saying he didn’t want to return to Cuba.

Foreign Ministry spokesman Alejandro Gonzalez declined to offer an official government reaction to Thursday’s developments in the United States. “Today we are seeing another maneuver by the mafia of Miami,” was all Gonzalez would say, using a term common here to describe the Cuban exile leadership.

“We are waiting for Elian,” 42-year-old housewife Dinalba Labrada said as she bought government-rationed rice and cooking oil at a corner food store. “We are hoping they will turn him over. Hope is always the last thing a person loses. We have not lost ours yet.”

At the “Esquina Caliente” — the “Hot Corner” in Old Havana’s Central Park — the city’s self-anointed baseball experts mixed pontification on the ongoing National Baseball Series with opinions about the Elian case.

“I would be afraid for Elian’s father to go to Miami” to claim the child, said Jorge Luis Ultria, a 33-year-old construction worker who spends several hours a day at the informal gathering of sports fanatics. “Those people in Miami are capable of sabotage, even planting a bomb!”

Some of the men were hopeful that the Miami relatives would be obligated to give up the boy, but most were pessimistic. “I think that this could go on for at least two or three months — even five months,” said Alberto Rosales, a 42-year-old self-employed mechanic who wore a baseball cap advertising Molson Canadian beer.

Cubans were far more interested in the Elian case than the summit of leaders who gathered here this week to examine ways to increase the power and wealth of their developing nations. Cuban state television also showed its obsession with the case even as it covered the summit: Reporters tossed questions about Elian into interviews with the visiting heads of state. Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe agreed that the child belonged with his father. So did Angolan President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos. “Children belong to the care of their parents,” Mexican Foreign Minister Rosario Green said.

Caught up in the Elian battle, Fidel Castro’s communist government barely promoted the summit until just before it opened on Monday. For 4½ months, the fight for Elian has been the No. 1 priority of the government, which has rallied thousands of people in near-daily protests pressing for the boy’s return.

“If Elian does come back, I will be very proud, very glad,” Ultria said amid his clutch of wildly gesticulating baseball experts. “And when he comes back, we don’t have to have a celebration. There will be a celebration and a pride in every Cuban heart,” said Ultria, “because we will all know that he is back where he should be.”

U.S. should grant Elian citizenship

International By LEONARD PEIKOFF

It would be a sin to deport Elian Gonzalez. To send a child to rot in the prison of Cuba for the alleged sake of his own well-being is criminal hypocrisy. To send him there in order to preserve his father’s rights is absurdity, since there are no parental or other rights in Cuba. To send him there because “He needs a father, no matter what,” is a mindless bromide. Does he need a father who has no choice but to watch his son being broken in mind and starved in body?

The liberals I know want Elian deported because they regard the difference between the United States and Cuba as “merely a difference of political opinion,” merely a subjective matter of...“how you define freedom.” In other words, being relativists who are statists themselves, they find nothing objectively wrong with Cuba. And even if Cuba does have flaws, some of them say, so do Haiti and many other underdeveloped countries from which people seek to emigrate. So why the fuss about Elian? Isn’t it discrimination in favor of Cubans? This argument evades the difference between slavery and poverty. True, a proper immigration policy should not favor Cubans; but it should discriminate nevertheless—in favor of the most deserving cases from every country. I mean the pathetically small trickle of escapees from real dictatorships—communist, Nazi, or other—who manage somehow to claw their way to our border. Can we morally shrug off victims such as these and send them home to the Secret Police to “wait in line” behind barbed wire? In Ayn Rand’s words, the criteria of “dictatorship” in this context are: “one-party rule—executions... for political offenses—the nationalization or expropriation of private property—and censorship.”

Most Cubans in Miami understand firsthand these insignia of dictatorship; they recognize Elian’s plight. But, though impassioned, they are hard-pressed to defend him in convincing terms. Many of them, who exalt “family values,” sound insincere in seeking to separate a son from his father. Besides, if religion is their final intellectual recourse, as it is for most conservatives, Cuban or otherwise, how persuasive a case can they make in any debate? To neutral observers who seek logical answers to the Elian controversy, mystic visions are not persuasive; they are irrelevant. What Elian desperately needs on his side is not a defender of the faith, but an exponent of reason.

Ayn Rand taught me philosophy for thirty years. She herself had fled Soviet Russia in the 1920s, and she knew what life was like there. The opposite of slavery, she taught, is not merely freedom of action, but above all its root, the freedom of thought. You cannot be free, she said, unless your mind is free. Free to come to and express its own conclusions without threat or coercion, free to pursue its own profit and happiness and free to keep the wealth its own efforts have created. In essence she taught me that, despite all their detractors, the Enlightenment and the Founding Fathers were right; one must defend the independence of the individual, the inalienable rights of man, and the supremacy of reason against all comers; whether “friend” or enemy, kin or outsider, relativist or mystic, state or church.

A century and a half ago, when these ideas were still the conventional wisdom in the U.S., Elian would have provoked no controversy; he would have been welcomed here eagerly. Fifty years ago, by contrast, when I first met her, Ayn Rand was the only prominent representative of these ideas that I could find. Tragically, she is still the only one. The motivation of President Clinton in this issue, besides liberalism, is a desire to leave a “legacy” of peace. A peace pursued through worldwide appeasement of dictators, no matter what the human carnage to which it leads. If only the Republicans were able to offer an alternative. In the Elian case, as in the Microsoft case, the Justice Department is once again fighting for injustice. The only political hero to emerge is the mayor of Miami, no matter what his political motives, if any. What makes him admirable is his flat-out refusal to sanction or abet the administration’s policy. In the name not of Cuban nationalism, but of Americanism in its original and deepest philosophical meaning, Elian Gonzalez must be allowed to remain here. Let this poor boy have a chance to live a human life. If “compassion” is one of our politicians’ chief values, as they keep telling us, can’t they show him any of it?

Leonard Peikoff, a Ph.D. in philosophy, is Ayn Rand’s heir and the founder of the Ayn Rand Institute. The Institute promotes the philosophy of Ayn Rand, author of Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead. Send comments to reaction@aynrand.org. The Davisonian accepts responses to stories in the international commentary section. Please submit responses to the Viewpoint Section.

Singer/songwriter Keller Williams to perform
By JORDON STEELE
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, April 26, acoustic guitar virtuoso Keller Williams brings his unparalleled musicianship to Davidson. Williams’s subtle mix of folk, rock, and jazz licks under soothing, tenor vocals and quirky mouth-effects is sure to make fans even out of those who are not hip to the jamband scene from which he maintains a loyal following. Jamband.com praises Williams for his music versatility, asserting that “not only is he a virtuosic instrumentalist but a talented singer as well.” The singer/songwriter often tours with jazz-bluegrass titans String Cheese Incident and has also shared the stage with ex-Grateful Dead bassist Phil Lesh, bluegrass innovator David Grisman, and the indescribable and indefatigable Ani DiFranco. The show is free and starts at 9 PM. For more information on the performance please contact Matt Zogby (x6065).