**Wednesday, November 1, 2000**

Subgroups play crucial role in SGA affairs, contribute to success

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate is responsible for a considerable amount of action on campus. As a fairly large body, however, it delegates its responsibility to three types of subgroups: committees, councils, and student advisory councils.

There are ten committees that carry out many of the responsibilities of the Senate. The Senate Bylaws contain some stipulations about their structure and dictate whether the chair(s) must be chosen from among the elected senators. The Vice-President of the Senate, currently Joey Harris ’02, is responsible for appointing a chair, or co-chairs, of the committees, and the Senate then approves his choices. Committee membership, however, is open to any Davidson student.

The committees include Charters and Bylaws, Trustee Contact, Phone-a-thon, Rides (Vamanos), Roundtable, Leadership Training, Public Relations, Building Services (Physical Plant), and Polling and Response, all of which are permanent and function continuously throughout the year.

While their activities are not always visible to the student body, the function of the committees is crucial. The Phone-a-thon Committee, for example, coordinates student involvement for the Department of Alumni Affairs annual fundraising. “It’s a very important fundraiser for the students to take part in,” said Susanne Francis ’03, chair of the committee. “Not only do we raise money, but it’s a way to keep in contact with the alumni. Generally, they really enjoy hearing from current students and like to keep in contact with the school.”

The Senate forms an ad hoc committee when a new need arises that a current committee does not address. These committees concentrate on specific issues and usually function to explore different options and make a recommendation for action. After the SGA or an administrator makes a decision on the issue, the ad hoc committee disbands. For example, an ad hoc committee considered cable in dorm rooms last year.

SGA councils also exist and operate in a similar manner as the committees. These subgroups are generally smaller and more specific than committees, and SGA President Dane Erickson ’01 appoints the chairs. The Elections Council is responsible for the operation of all student elections and organizes both candidate activity as well as student voting. The Council on Minority Affairs is especially active around Martin Luther King Day but also sponsors forums and lectures to address a variety of minority issues regarding race, gender, and other similar issues. The Council on Internet and Technology Advancement maintains the SGA website and addresses technology needs.

Finally, Student Advisory Councils (SACs) are small groups that act as student liaisons to campus officials. These include the advisory councils to RLO, the Director of Campus Safety, Auxiliary Services, the Director of Athletics, and the Dean of Faculty. The Vice-President of the Senate appoints these chairs as well. SACs are critical to conveying student opinion to administrators: “We owe it to the people who put us in office to make sure their voices are heard,” said Harris.

These subgroups are all accountable to the Senate. Harris, as Vice-President, oversees them, and the groups are responsible for giving periodic reports on their activity at SGA meetings. Their functioning is essential to the success of the SGA. “Without committees, councils, and..."Advisory councils, we’d be a social club — people sitting around and talking but not doing,” said Harris. “These are the mechanisms through which we get things done.”

Debate, from page 1

...ing judges that are strict constructionists, “not legislating from the bench.” Kristine Harrington ’03 countered that the “Constitution is not a static document and must grow with our country.” She was wary of Bush’s philosophy of appointing right-leaning justices and its potential threats to free speech and the Roe v. Wade decision.

Much of the debate reflected the differences in policy between Gore and Bush. Even so, the debate did not lack questions concerning the character, experience, and track record of each candidate. Kevin Epps ’03 of the College Republicans questioned the success of the Clinton/Gore Administration in health care policy. “They had their chance; they have not led. We will,” said Epps. The Young Democrats countered criticisms against Gore, questioning Bush’s experience in foreign policy. The Republicans, led by John Pitts ’04, steadfastly defended Bush’s competence in foreign policy. Pitts, in an emphatic and passionate statement, asserted Bush’s “vision and leadership” that Gore lacks.

The two organizations also answered several questions from the audience. The evening saw a crowd that grew as high as 200. There were enough seats for 100, but there still was a good crowd both sitting and standing behind these chairs. Many listeners were divided on which side won their vote after the debate. For some, the Democrats and Gore dominated every issue, and likewise for the Republicans and Bush. For others, the winners were divided depending on the issue. Matt Zogby ’02 felt that there was no clear winner for all issues, although he felt that the “Democrats won the environment issue.”

Overall, both the Young Democrats and the College Republicans were happy about campus response to the debates. Brandt Leibe ‘02, co-president of the College Republicans, believed that the debates showed the college community “the differences between the candidates.” Mark Cody ‘01, president of the Young Democrats, agrees. “It’s wonderful. [The debate] helps to get the issues out to the students.” Rick Bold ‘02, co-president of the College Republicans, believed that the turnout at the debate was a sign that “political life is alive on Davidson’s campus.”

President Vagt couldn’t be happier about the debate. “It was a magical moment - the setting was spectacular; the debaters were thoughtful, articulate and passionate; and, the crowd was great. It was a special night.”

DAVIDSON COURT
Elaine 896-5152
Karen 896-5110
896-8283

Historic Davidson for $103,000-$123,500
2&3 BR. Condos | Fireplaces | 9’ ceilings, garden courtyard, tile foyers
Model Open Sat. & Sun. 1-4pm
ALLEN TATE REALTORS

Breakfast Burritos
Pancakes
Omelets
104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC
Eat-in Take-out