right place but their brains on hiatus. The discussions of hate crimes laws on both the federal and state levels are wonderful examples of how the drive to please the hoi polloi often leads to feel-good, but sealant legislation. The notion that minority groups should receive extra protection, more than majority groups do, solely on the basis of their race, color, religion, national origin, gender, disability, or sexual orientation, is the underlying idea upon which hate crimes laws are based. This idea is inherently flawed. A retarded man’s life is worth no more than a black woman’s life, which is worth no more than a gay Asian’s life, which is worth no more than an orthodox Jew’s life, which is worth no more than a middle-aged, middle-class, married white man’s life. Equal protection under the law ensures that a white victim will not receive preferential treatment when assaulted by a black perpetrator, so why should a black victim receive preferential treatment when assaulted by a white perpetrator, solely because he is black? No life is worth more than any other. The murderer of a gay woman ought to be penalized equally to the murderer of a straight woman. Hate crimes laws attempt to penalize a criminal for the state of mind he was in while he committed his offense. The government and our courts ought not to be in the business of judging one’s thoughts. Murder is illegal. Assault is illegal. Rape is illegal. No murder should be more illegal than another because the victim was of a certain minority group. In the State of New York, those convicted of aggravated assault can expect a maximum sentence of fifteen days in jail. Yet, should the criminal utter a racial slur during the attack, the maximum sentence is increased to one year in jail. In New York, a white man who assaulted another white man would be punished less severely than if the same white man were to assault a black man. This is injustice, and this is discrimination. There is no need to outline specific protections for any minority group. Existing laws need to be enforced. Hate crimes laws highlight divisions between demographic categories and they prioritize minority victims at the expense of equality under the law. The killers of Matthew Shepard, a gay student in Wyoming, deserve severe punishment, not because they killed a man allegedly for his reprehensible lifestyle, but because they killed a human being. The men who dragged a black man to his death in Texas deserve severe punishment, not because their victim was black, but because their victim was a human being. These are despicable persons who committed these crimes, but we must have the courage to put our emotions aside and punish only their actions. In the District of Columbia, killing a student is classified as a hate crime; it is known as the bias of matriculation. Is there any reason why a student’s murderer in D.C. should be punished more severely than a student’s murderer in a different city? What difference does it make that the victim was a student? All that should matter is that he was a human being. Hate crimes laws solely punish thoughts because the actions are already against the law. Vice President Al Gore, a Democrat, almost got it right when he said, “We must send a clear and strong message to all who...

I’ve Been Attending Meetings, All the Live Long Day...

The productivity of the average American worker has increased in leaps and bounds since the 1950s, yet the amount of time I have to spend in meetings has increased in leaps that not even Superman would dare tackle. Why is it that more and more of my time has been filled up with meetings, gatherings, and my personal favorite, get-togethers? Have I done something terribly wrong to be punished in this manner? Was I a Republican in a former life? Could it possibly have to do with those “sign-up” sheets I placed my John Hancock on? I simply do not understand. It honestly seems that I am spending more time in meetings lately than I spend completing tasks for the respective organization or group. Why is this, and who do I have to blame for it?

The history of the “meeting” dates back to antiquity when a group of cavemen decided that the whole concept of “dragging” the carcasses back to the cave was too exhausting. So, they had a meeting and soon formed “The Society for the Production of the Wheel.” After numerous sub-committee meetings, they developed a prototype and they called it the “Firestone.” We all know how well that turned out.

Now let’s skip ahead to near present day. The meeting, in its current form, has evolved throughout the history of our great nation. It began with the meeting of the First Continental Congress, then came the meeting at Yorktown where we kicked some major ass, and finally with the first modern meeting of Congress. That is when it all went to hell. You see, those founding “fathers” (many were, in fact, grandfathers) decided that they...would be more efficient if they split up the work among some “committees” and that these “committees” could then meet occasionally and fix things. Today there are over 200 committees, sub-committees, and other official groups in Congress. And you guessed it; they all have meetings.

Now, I know that you are thinking, “Hey, they have to run the entire government, of course they have a lot of meetings.” What if I told you that Davidson had more meetings than the United States Congress? Well, if you figure in the Union Board and its committee meetings, the SGA and all of its committees and meetings, the PCC and its zillion committees, every other campus organization and its respective meetings, and finally just the run of the mill gatherings amongst friends, I calculate that there are approximately six hundred billion meetings every day at Davidson. This is a rough estimate, granted, but I am sure that the real number is pretty darned high.

So what is the solution to this devastating quandary? I know! We should set up a committee to look into the fact that there are too many meetings!

Note: Andrew wasn’t quite sure how to end this article. Actually, he had to go to a meeting and ran out of time. He sends his apologies and invites you to devise an ending and e-mail him. He will critique the endings and will use one of them in an upcoming article.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

As a former editor of The Davidsonian, I have spent many a week lamenting the paltry level of news content on this calm, quiet college campus. Many times I felt painfully insignificant as we pursued front-page stories about such blasé topics as the 25th Anniversary of a campus building. But never did we stoop so low as to headline a story about twenty-somethings cleaning their own bathrooms. The Charlotte news media’s seemingly saturation coverage of this “breaking news story” made me embarrassed to be a Davidson student, but even more embarrassed on behalf of the news entities that descended upon this 450-acre tract of red brick and green grass.

The only legitimate angle of news coverage I can suppose would be a satirical jab at the affluent “spoiled brats” whining about cleaning up after themselves in the midst of the most enjoyable years of our lives. Such journalistic motivations—from national news sources—are flat-out unprofessional. But, unfortunately, we played right into their hands—and for that, must share some of the embarrassment and shame.

Perhaps, in the context of this campus, complaints about toilet-scrubbing are indeed legitimate. It’s unpleasant. Most other students don’t have to do it. And we all have petty frustrations about which we like to grumble—be it a lack of cable TV or the fact that the laundry service took two days to return our clothes. But whimpering about such petty inconveniences to the Charlotte news media is far different than complaining to your roommate, your friends, or even to The Davidsonian. By going on the record in The Charlotte Observer, we reposition the complaint into the context of the larger world—a world where our dirty showers pale in comparison to the real-life difficulties faced by our neighbors around the planet and even in our own backyard.

Davidson students, faculty, staff, and alumni invest countless hours of blood, sweat, and toil in our mission to serve the greater community and make it a better place. But for at least the next few days, most of the Charlotte news media will be scoffing at the fact that we wipe our own toilet seats. Much of this hype can be attributed to ludicrous journalism. But, we must acknowledge, that by complaining to Observer reporters about our terrible toiletry plight, we played right into their hands.

Mike Anderson ‘02, Editor Emeritus