DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2000

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 5

Alumni reminisce about old friends, college memories

By LINNY BALDWIN
Staff Writer

With only 1700 students, Davidson College is often characterized as a “small, intimate community,” implying a cozy but somewhat limited group. This weekend Davidson students had the opportunity to see just how far that community reaches as Davidson alumni from all over the country returned to celebrate Homecoming with their fellow Wildcats.

Griffin Rankin ’00 coordinated the Homecoming Alumni programs which included dinners, receptions, and parties, especially for the classes of 1990 and 1995.

“I’m here to see old friends; there are no weddings this year!” joked Kimberly Nance ‘95, a Political Science major who received her Master’s Degree in elementary education and currently teaches 4th grade in Richmond.

The campus has changed little since the classes of 1990 and 1995 graduated, although Rita Rhame Daniel ’90 admitted the VAC still looks “weird.”

Many also commented on West Dorm. As recently as 1991, all freshmen dorms were single-sex;

Bruce Newsome ’90 admits to “destroying” First Center Belk as a freshman.

Matthew Meldon (’95 Art), David Saudek and Jeremy Potts (both ‘95 Biology) demonstrate the different paths recent Davidson alums have taken. Meldon went to seminary and now works at a Littleton, CO church.

Saudek spent a year in Tanzania running a clinic and working with street kids and is currently attending Medical College of Georgia. Potts took his degree to Alaska and then Japan with the Japanese Teacher Exchange. He is attending graduate school at Duke University and hopes to go into international environmental policy.

The Class of 1990 was the first to inhabit the Martin Court apartments. Rhame Daniel was one of those residents — and the only one of her roommates to have a computer back when Davidson had one computer lab.

Sarah Canadine Bayne ’90 remembers her

see Alumni, page 4

Hail To The King and Queen

Seniors Sarah Moore and Chad Phillips were elected King and Queen of the 2000 Homecoming Court.

Matt Whited

Renovated Grey College Union to house music department

By JESSICA MERING
Staff Writer

Several Davidson organizations are preparing to relocate their headquarters when the Knobloch Campus Center opens this spring. This will make their current locations available to fill the needs of a growing campus.

Most significantly, construction will begin again to renovate the Grey College Union. “Unless something changes radically, it will become home to the music department,” said Music Department Chair Dr. Raymond Sprague.

The music department looks forward to moving into its new home.

Erin Berry.

The Campus Center is expected to be ready in April of 2001 and William Brown, Union Director, has been working hard with various committees to ensure a smooth transition. He has formed a “Moving Company,” comprised of all the different organizations that will be based in Knobloch to facilitate the transition and all the details surrounding it.

“We have to address everything in advance, and we’re finding all sorts of logistics to work out. Hopefully by considering them now, we will be prepared for moving in and operating as soon as possible,” noted Brown. Once the Campus Center is complete, Brown anticipates a positive reaction. “I haven’t come up with words to describe how wonderful and exciting it will be,” he exclaimed.

The completion of Knobloch will bring with it a vacated Grey College Union. The music department is looking forward to making use of it in order to relieve considerable space constraints.

The department’s facilities are currently spread out over six buildings around campus: the Cunningham Fine Arts building, Elm Row, Oak Row South, Love Auditorium in Chambers, Eu Hall, and Davidson College Presbyterian Church. As a result of this sprawl, performance, classroom, practice, and office space are all in different buildings. This creates less than ideal situations. It is an inconvenience to move instruments back and forth continually, and while DCPC is an excellent performance venue for the choir, it is not an

see Union, page 3

Ecumenical Council promotes Christian community

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Both in national discourse and here at Davidson, the Christian community has presented a divided and often confusing front on the issue of inclusion and ordination of homosexuals.

The Ecumenical Council wants to reframe the ongoing debate in a forum entitled “Many Voices of Faith in One Conversation” next Tuesday, October 3.

The Council encourages and respects the differing views. They are concerned, however, about the way the debate has been carried out and about its perception in the community.

In light of this, the forum intends to “discuss the way the Christian community has reacted” to this debate and to demonstrate a more unified, more tolerant approach to its resolution, according to Olga Granda ’01, chair of the Council.

As Granda explained, Chaplain Rob Spach had intended to begin a dialogue on inclusion of homosexuals in the Christian community with his letter to The Davidsonian.

Both Spach and the Council are pleased to see this debate taking place, but because of its distance from the issue and from the actors involved, “The Davidsonian doesn’t show every side,” remarked Granda. “We [the Ecumenical Council] feel that we need a more open and familiar environment.” Furthermore, the letters that have been printed “show a rift [among Christians], and that is a negative image to present to the larger community.”

This forum is also an attempt to increase the involvement of the Council in its main area of responsibility, promoting cooperation and dialogue among Christian students and organizations on campus. The Council, explained Granda, is sponsored by the Chaplain’s Office and includes representa-

INSIDE

Viewpoint
Minority perspective on Christian homosexual debate

Gore under fire

Sports

Wildcat football continues to dominate

Women’s soccer begins conference play

Best dunks ever?