THE DAVIDSONIAN _ News
THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

Alternative Spring Breaks: beyond beach bumming and skiing
By Caroline CUNNINGHAM
Guest Writer

As is a Davidson tradition, several students decided to spend their spring breaks serving others in various locations across the
country. Alternative Breaks, the organization that plans and sponsors these free service opportunities, offered three very different and successful trips
to students who wished to challenge themselves and their environment.

Joslyn Ogden led a trip to Caretta, West Virginia. Caretta is a former coal mining community of a few hundred
residents. The community was essentially established by Olga Coal Company in the 1920s, but when the coal mining industry had
its bust in the 1980s, the company and about 75% of the population left the town. Caretta is currently the
seventh poorest area in the United States, and an abnormally large percentage of its population depends upon welfare. Eight Davidson
students spent their spring break in Caretta, hoping to help the people and to learn more about their challenges, ideas,
and culture.

The students stayed in the Caretta Community Center, an old elementary school that has been converted into a meeting center
and a place for daycare. The group painted a few rooms in the Center, cleaned, and took part in a
meeting of the Young People's Action Council, a group of ambitious high school students working to bring improvements to their
education system. Currently, they have neither a foreign language program nor any sort of AP program available to them. The
Community Center is also involved with College Connections, a program through which college students come to work in Caretta during
the summer, acting as coaches and coordinators for youth programs.

According to senior Lindsay Meyers, the time spent in Caretta allowed her to have increased understanding of the welfare system
and allowed her to associate names, faces, and relationships with an issue so seemingly distant from our lives in Davidson.
She experienced a week of cultural exchange and awareness in addition to, and perhaps more powerful than, the service work.
Reflection was an important facet of this trip—reflection about different needs of different people, different ways to serve, and a
hope for common ground and understanding. Is development always the best thing for a community? How do we relate to
people who started using illegal drugs at the age of six? How close do we let them get to us?
These students went to...

Tibetan monks conduct healing and sand mandala ceremonies
By Jessica MERING
Guest Writer

Five Tibetan monks visited Davidson last week to present a series of lectures, performances, and ceremonies to the College and
the surrounding community. The central activity of the monks’ visit was the construction of a sand mandala, which was created
and displayed in the Chambers Gallery. The sand mandala represents the layout of a Buddhist deity’s palace; it is also
a metaphor for the universe as a whole; it is often used in ceremonies that initiate a monk into a
high form of meditation. The monks use a piece of chalk-dipped string to outline the mandala and then fill it
in by tapping a sand-filled metal cone against the mandala’s surface.

The ritual of the mandala itself is representational of a tenet of Buddhism. The Buddha said, “all things are impermanent,
work out your salvation with diligence.” In order to illustrate that no parts of life are permanent, the monks sweep
up the sand mandala almost immediately after its completion. After the sweeping, the monks scatter the sand in a river
or a lake. By releasing the sand into the environment, the monks are attempting to purify their surroundings. The monks
worked on the mandala throughout their three-day visit. The sweeping of the mandala and the scattering ceremony occurred on Friday
afternoon, March 24, and the scattering of the sand immediately followed at the Lake Campus.

While at Davidson, the monks also offered a lecture on patience and compassion, which took place on Wednesday evening in
the 900 Room. The discussion was presented by a Lama, or spiritual master, and facilitated by a translator. The Lama
encouraged members of the audience to train their minds on patience and compassion in order to seek happiness. The Buddhist
tradition believes that external circumstances cannot relieve most suffering and pain. Instead, the individual must seek to purify his thoughts
and attitudes in order to achieve a spiritual purity that will bring happiness.

In a further demonstration of their efforts to achieve purity, the monks shared the Vajravidharan Healing Ritual with an audience
at the Outpost on Thursday. This is a three-stage ritual in which the Lama assumes the form of the Buddha
of Purification in order to cleanse and heal those participating in the ritual. The healing ritual is primarily based on
visualization as well as on the Lama’s statements and encouragement of purification.

The monks are members of the Gaden Shartse Monastic College in Southern India. The monastery was located in Tibet until
1959 when the Chinese destroyed it and forced the monks to flee to India. The monastery was rebuilt there. Many
of the Shartse monks who are there today have recently escaped from Tibet. Currently, there are approximately 3000 monks in
the Gaden Monastery, with about 1500 of those monks affiliated with the Gaden Shartse College. The monastery also functions as
a school that educates young boys in Buddhist traditions, art, and philosophy. The monks’ daily lives at the monastery are
rigidly scheduled from 5 AM to midnight, with much of this time being spent in prayer, meditation, and the debate
of Buddhist truths. Some prayers last as long as 18 hours, beginning at 4:30 AM and lasting well into the
night. The monks also spend a considerable amount of time working towards academic degrees, many of which take from 5
to 40 years to complete.

Monks from the Gaden Shartse Monastic College have been touring various parts of the world since 1989. The monks who
visited Davidson last week have been traveling since last May and visit a new city every four or five days.
The money raised on the tour is designated for a new courtyard for the monastery, where the daily debates occur.
Funds will also be used to increase the salary of the monastery’s administrators and to improve the diet of the
monks. Right now, administrators are receiving about 180 rupees a month, which is less than two dollars and is insufficient
to meet daily needs. The food is also nutritionally lacking at the monastery, which leads to severe health problems in
the aging monks. The monks also hope to use money raised from the tour to expand the monastery’s library of
English texts in order to educate the young boys so that they are able to share the Buddhist traditions with
more of the...world. The Shartse monks were hosted by Davidson College’s Students for a Free Tibet. The organization is co-chaired
by Aditi Sedhi ('02) and Jeremy Campbell ('02). Carretta without knowing what they would do and left with a better
understanding of a nearby community. Seniors Mark Jones and Pete Thomson led a similar trip to Harlem, New York, and
had an equally incredible adventure. They lived and worked in the Emmaus House, a homeless community for people who have
been abused, finished time in prison, or are recovering from drug addictions. The main theme and goal of their group
was to help the Emmaus House in moving to a new building, while establishing relationships with the people and having
a good time. They transported food, files, and other objects to the new location and discovered that throwing things out
of the third-story window onto a mattress on the street was a definite help. They also made use of sock
puppets and visited the Dukes of Hazard Museum on the way home. Each member of the group kept a journal
and, like the West Virginia crew, they did not know what to expect prior to their arrival in Harlem. According
to Mark Jones, it was great watching the group come together throughout the course of the trip and observe how
they motivated the members of the Emmaus House. Davidson students have spoken with some of the residents since the trip
and feel that they had a unique experience with this group of people. Their message that service is fun and
their relationships with the residents of the Emmaus House are fundamental to everything that service as a way of life
is, and they grew from this experience every bit as much as the people they served.

A third group headed south to Immokalee, Florida. Led by sophomore Jeremy Campbell, twelve students spent seven days at the
Immokalee Friendship House, a non-profit community center and homeless shelter. They were responsible for cooking meals and for cleaning the
house, which provides free assistance to a large population of migrant and displaced workers in the south Florida area. The
students were also able to participate in various service projects in the town, such as Habitat for Humanity, health care
education, work at an abused women's shelter, and volunteering at an alternative school for girls. Approximately twenty-five residents live in
the Immokalee House at any given time, though during picking and planting seasons the house can accommodate forty people. Twenty
thousand people permanently reside in the town of Immokalee, but during the orange and pepper harvests no less than sixty
thousand people crowd the area. There is also a substantial Haitian population that has been displaced as a result of
political and economic factors. According to Jeremy Campbell, "Almost everyone on our trip felt like they were in a different
country," due to the stark differences in the economic and cultural climate of the area. Much like the other alternative
breaks, these students felt that they gained more, in terms of cultural exchange and experience, than they gave to the
residents of Immokalee. According to Campbell, the work of twelve students over seven days in Florida did not dent the
larger socio-political and economic structures that perpetuate poverty and racism. However, the heightened awareness of their own complicity in such
structures, in addition to the hope that they shared with the residents of Immokalee, are hallmarks of this successful and
introspective trip. Alternative Breaks sponsors trips during nearly every break in the academic calendar, including some weekend trips. If you
would like more information, contact Taylor Herbert at x6336 or Adam Sanders at x6642.

The latest news from SGA
Brant McMILLAN
Staff Writer

The SGA has been extremely busy this semester; many exciting issues have been brought up and debated under the new
leadership of president Dane Erickson. Recently the SGA has solidified other leadership positions by approving Alison Moran as chancellor, and
Mike Anderson as Treasurer. The SGA has also allocated money to Students for a Free Tibet and KA Karnival, helped
organize the Phone-A-Thon, explored options for expanding recycling on campus, approved a charter for an Asian Students association, endorsed a
proposed change in the voice mail system, and discussed proposed changes in the College’s smoking policies, among many other fruitful
actions.

Two weeks ago the SGA voted to create a committee to explore options regarding a protest of the Confederate battle
flag flown atop the statehouse in Columbia, South Carolina. The committee is aptly named the Flag Exploratory Committee. The Confederate
battle flag, or “stars and bars,” has caused much debate over its effects on society. Many people feel that the
flag stands for racism and acts as a painful reminder of slavery, while supporters say it honors their southern heritage.
Leading the national effort against the flag is the NAACP; they have organized the most prominent protest of late by
sanctioning a total tourism boycott on the state of South Carolina. South Carolina is the only state that flies the
flag over their state capitol building. The SGA has decided to join the fight against flying the confederate flag; our
opinion being that it causes much more harm than good. President Erickson has been in contact with Southern Conference colleges,
making progress toward a unified protest. The student governments from Davidson and the College of Charleston will be spearheading the
effort. The College of Charleston’s SGA has already passed a resolution to oppose the flying of the flag. Both Davidson
and Charleston are trying to persuade other schools in the Southern Conference to pass similar resolutions against the flag. There
is no definite plan as of yet as to the nature of the protest. Various ideas are being debated and
discussed by the SGA. These ideas range from a proposed march on the capitol building in Columbia to a letter-writing
campaign against the flag. One interesting notion is a replacement of the Confederate battle flag with the actual flag of
the Confederacy. It is the battle flag which is closely associated with racism and the atrocities committed before and after
the Civil War. The actual flag of the Confederacy does not closely resemble the battle flag. It could be possible
to appease those who believe the battle flag honors their southern heritage by replacing it with the Confederate flag. The
Flag Exploratory Committee is debating the options for action. A campus-wide forum on the flag issue should take place in
the next couple of weeks. The SGA believes that action is necessary because the Confederate battle flag has become a
national concern, many of our students come from South Carolina, and because we are a member of the Southern Conference.
Being located in a bordering state, Davidson College is regionally associated with South Carolina; their reputation affects our own.
