THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Coffee researcher Michael Griffin wins the Watson Scholarship

By Setu Davis
News Editor

Michael Griffin loves coffee. Last week, the Watson Scholarship Committee rewarded Griffin’s passion with the prestigious Watson scholarship, which will allow him to pursue six months of research abroad. But that research project is on hold until July, and, for now, Griffin is concluding his final semester at Davidson. Griffin is relieved to be finished with the Watson application process, which he calls “the most difficult thing I’ve applied for.” He is also ecstatic at receiving the scholarship. It affords him the opportunity to visit South American and European coffee plantations in order to expand upon his four years of intense interest in coffee production and coffee chemistry.

Griffin’s passion, for some, has been difficult to understand. “My apartment frightens most people,” said the chemistry major from Los Angeles. “Coffee bags and posters line the walls while coffee equipment covers the floor.” When he told a high school friend of his hopes to study coffee “she must have laughed for half an hour,” Griffin said. Still, Griffin said, “those with an intense passion understand me.”

Though Griffin has been drinking coffee since he was 12, his passion for it began during his freshman year at Davidson. When asked about what set off his intense interest in coffee, Griffin smiles and says, “I read one book on coffee production and I was hooked. After that, I read every book I could find on coffee.”

When a batch of Kenyan beans shocked the coffee world in 1997, Griffin saw a unique opportunity for study. The coffee from the Kagumo plantation of Kenya was unusually “bright” and Griffin decided to test the hypothesis of coffee chemists that the “brightness” came from the phosphoric acid content in the beans. As part of an honors thesis research class, Griffin studied the phosphoric acid content of the Kagumo beans. His final paper on the subject is being published in The Proceedings of the 18th Colloquium of the Association Scientifique Internationale du Café.

Griffin wants to do more. “I love coffee and the hard work is worth it,” he said. His impending trip will give him the opportunity to study how coffee is grown and processed. “Few chemists have the opportunity to go to plantations,” noted Griffin, but his trip, funded by the Watson scholarship, will allow him to visit plantations in Brazil, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Italy. “Coffee is a universal language with different ethnic accents,” said Griffin. He hopes to learn more about the “cultures behind the coffee” in the different regions he will visit.

Ultimately, Griffin hopes to attain the goal of coffee chemistry—making espresso “taste like it smells.” He also hopes to discover the means to identify the origin of any coffee based on its chemical components. There are over 1,200 compounds in coffee, but Griffin sets his hopes high. Griffin’s website, www.coffeeresearch.org, contains 250 pages of his research and gets around 9,000 hits a day.

Griffin has been accepted to five graduate schools—University of Florida, University of Arizona, University of Texas, Vanderbilt, and University of North Carolina Chapel Hill. He plans to defer his enrollment in one of these schools until he returns from his trip to South America and Europe. Eventually, Griffin hopes to start his own lab and create a new espresso machine that produces coffee that tastes like it smells.

Open-ended events promote the arts at Davidson

By Setu Davis
News Editor

“We just want to start the weekend off on the right foot,” said Julia Philpott of the Cultural Events Coffeehouse, an event which occurred for the first time on March 24. Philpott and Rebecca Wilson are co-chairs of the Union Board Cultural Events Committee. Along with the Union Board Literary Arts Committee’s chair Ben Carter, they, according to Wilson, hope to give Davidson students “a place to foster their art.”

Wilson and Philpott envision the Coffeehouse as an open-ended forum in which Davidson students can come together to share art and have fun. The Coffeehouse will be a recurring event. “There are a lot of people working in solitude,” said Carter. “These events can form a community of artists.” The Coffeehouse on March 24 saw a collection ofDavidson students come together for an open-ended night in which some students chose to read either their work or someone else’s while others played music. Candlelight dotted the tables on the Union Patio as Davidson students gathered to share a night of art. The event was well-attended and was part of Women’s Issues Month. Engaging the diverse elements of the Davidson community is also important to Wilson and Philpott. “We hope to bring together all different types of groups and share their ideas,” said Wilson. Wilson and Philpott hope to make the Coffeehouse a weekly event. This hope is shared by Carter. “We want to fill a void here at Davidson,” said Philpott. The lack of open, artistic events at Davidson is the impetus for Philpott, Wilson, and Carter’s efforts. “These events are low pressure and fun,” said Carter. Carter’s Literary Arts Committee held a Literary Extravaganza on Saturday, April 1, in the 900 Room. The Cultural Events and Literary Arts Committees plan to co-host another Coffeehouse within the next two weeks. The Literary Arts Committee is also hosting the slam poet Steve Coleman, who will be on campus April 15. “We want people to share their ideas with us. We’re creating a venue for what has been missing and we want people to be comfortable in it,” said Wilson.

Online literary magazine Revolting is under construction
By Setu Davis
News Editor

When a unique crop of Kenyan coffee

Georgia Ringle, Health Educator, is now accepting applications to fill four Health Advisor positions for the academic year ’00 - ’01. Juniors Jamey Heit and Matt Clifford hope to “revolt from traditional literary magazines” with their incipient online publication entitled Revolting. The online literary magazine is still under construction. Heit projects that the site will be finished around Easter Break. “We want to get people to share what they write down and release people from the stress of publication,” says Heit. Revolting will be a site for the online “publication” of Davidson students’ work. In the beginning, the site will be a collection of poems, but eventually Heit and Clifford hope to add a message board in order to create a workshop-type atmosphere on the site. Initially, the online “issues” will come out bi-monthly. Depending on the number of submissions, Heit and Clifford may update the site more often. The impetus for Revolting came to Clifford and Heit during their “Web of Modernism” seminar with Dr. Churchill last semester. Heit hopes that Revolting will “boost the confidence of artists” by giving them a “friendly environment in which to share their work.” While Revolting will be a publication independent of the College, Heit hopes that there will be a link to it off of the Davidson webpage. Both Heit and Clifford are making a college-wide call for submissions to the first issue. In the future, Heit hopes to publish poems read at the Cultural Events Coffeehouses in a special issue of the magazine.

If you have an interest in being a peer educator, designing and putting on hall programs, promoting awareness activities, or have a special talent or experience, please apply.

Davidson College Weapons Policy

This letter serves to inform the student body about the weapons policy at Davidson College. The policy states: “Davidson College strictly prohibits possession of weapons of any type by students, employees, and visitors on all College property, including guns, both concealed and visible, and any other deadly object. Violators are subject to expulsion, termination, or criminal prosecution or any combination of sanctions, regardless of the validity of any permits. Also included are knives, explosives, or fireworks. It is important to note that the policy prohibits the use of fireworks on campus.”

Four Health Advisors will be selected to assist and work with the Health Educator and other students in a variety of areas. Health Advisors will be paid a stipend at the end of each semester. To pick up an application, come by the Student Health Service. April 14, 2000, is the last day to apply. Questions? Call Georgia Ringle at x2902.