By KRISTEN TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Four dancers sit on the stage, massaging sore muscles, practicing moves, and watching each other. Hydrating. The music is loud, very loud for many of the (slightly older) artist series season ticket holders. “We have to have the music loud so we can find the beat,” Clyde Evans, acting as the company leader, had told me the night before. Evans rocked the Baker Sports Complex on Thursday with a three-hour master class that left the eighteen members of the class (the author included) close to limping to the concert. The Chambers stairs were a formidable obstacle, but Evans had forever hooked me on hip-hop.

THE DAVIDSONIAN News

Rennie Harris Puremovement: Do what the music tells you

Evans is one of the eleven members of Rennie Harris: PureMovement, the Philadelphia-based company that finished the 1999-2000 Artist Series. Six of the company members performed at this show plus one guest, Julie Uric. The company dynamic is very good; members simply take turns jamming in front of the group—outside of two combinations and one piece, there was no set choreography. Those behind the jammer encourage and talk amongst themselves. The atmosphere remained low-key from the start, as Evans walked onstage in an orange hat and suspenders, white rolled-up baggy pants, a wife-beater, sneakers with high socks, and a microphone. He proceeded to detail the history of hip-hop, which he defined as “nothing more than traditional African dance.” The term “hip-hop” also describes the era we are in now and the dance of the people, according to Evans. “Lockin’” was the first dance that the company demonstrated, a clownish hybrid of the Frankenstein that Don Cambell pioneered in 1968. (Evans also mentioned that his colorful outfit was typical of a

JAMES JENKINS
Press Release

On Saturday from noon to 6:00, KA will hold the annual KArnival on the Davidson Town Green to benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Dale Earnhardt’s race car, the Carolina Panther’s Muhsin Muhammad, and Davidson College’s own Cast Iron Filter will make up just a few of the many attractions at this year’s event. Every year KArnival has raised funds for the Muscular Dystrophy Association while providing entertainment for children in the Davidson community. The tradition, started six years ago by Jeff Sheer ’97, used to take place in the Baker parking lot. Since then, KArnival has become KA’s major Spring service project. This year’s event has been expanded to provide an afternoon not only for kids, but also for their families and the Davidson College community. Having the KArnival on the Davidson Town Green makes the event more accessible for the surrounding area. As freshman Graham Watson says, “the event does something specifically for the Davidson community.” It also helps kids with muscular dystrophy. MDA’s primary goal is to foster research and patient care covering 40 neuromuscular disorders. The KArnival’s proceeds help send local children who suffer from muscular dystrophy to MDA Summer Camp in York, SC for one week.

In addition to contributing to a great cause, those attending the KArnival will be well-entertained. Cast Iron Filter will debut songs from their new album Further Down the Line. This show marks the first time that the band has played before such a diverse group. Mike Orlando expresses the band’s excitement about being able to “play in front of our favorite audience, the Davidson student body, as well as the Davidson community.” Along with great music, Muhsin Muhammad of the Carolina Panthers will be at the event to help host and sign autographs for children. From inside the dunk tank, President Bobby Vagt will join in the efforts to raise money for MDA. A moonbounce will be on the Green, and Dale Earnhardt’s racecar will also be parked there. Another attraction will be Thunderdome Racing where miniature cars are raced around a twenty-five foot banked track. A silent auction complements this year’s KArnival. NASCAR tickets with pit passes to the October 8, 2000 race in Charlotte, a guided fly fishing trip, Davidson Basketball season tickets and autographed balls, rounds of golf at Birkdale and Mallard Head, and N.C. State vs. UNC basketball tickets make up some of the many items that can be bid on from 12:00-4:00 on Saturday. The silent auction will draw more people out and raise additional money for MDA. The fraternity hopes to raise $8,000 to sponsor five cabins of campers at this year’s summer camp. Last year, KA sent $1500 to MDA. Based on past records, this year’s goal may seem too lofty, but the fraternity believes a genuine, organized effort can generate huge rewards. Thanks to Cast Iron Filter, the Student Government Association, the Davidson College Union, Patterson Court Council, the President’s Office, and Admissions, this year’s KArnival has been supported by many groups on campus. “KArnival is a well organized, collective effort that makes people realize the true potential of a group working together,” sophomore Ian Nelson said.

Free Admission
SATURDAY APRIL 15, 2000
Davidson Town Green
12:00-6:00
FUN, FOOD, AND ENTERTAINMENT
To Benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association
DAVIDSON COLLEGE’S CAST IRON FILTERLocker—Three Stooges, golf-style.) “Poppin’”, the next dance, also developed in 1968 on the West Coast. When “Poppin’” is done correctly, you can actually hear bones cracking, Evans told the enthused, slightly deaf audience. Remember the body waves of the eighties? That’s one of the three poppin’ styles. At the end of waves, the sound booth missed Evans’ signal to kill the music, so he improvised for a bit to loud applause. The other two Poppin’ styles, “Tics” and “Animation”, were shown by Evans and Rodney Mason. “Ticin’” makes the dancer convulse like an android, and “Animation” imitates the old-school Hollywood claymation of Medusa, Hercules, and King Kong. “Animation” morphed Evans and Mason into those monsters, and with no help from the lights, the two men seemed caught between strobe flashes. After “Animation,” Evans explained “B-boy.” (He defended the term as describing not the gender of the dancer, but the attitude of the dance.) I am not sure if I buy that, but the word does function as a noun and a verb. In “Lockin’” and “Poppin’”, the dancers act on a force inside of them, but “B-boy”, hip-hop, and house styles illustrate an outside force on the dancers. These three styles emphasize the dancers’ control of their bodies, whereas poppin’ and lockin’ exhibit almost involuntary talent. B-boy developed in the late sixties in the Bronx through “creatively-repressed Hispanic and Black teens,” Evans said. Those out of the loop call it breakdancing, but now you know the correct term is B-boy. Floor spins, head spins, and handstands ruled the stage as the rest of the members (who had watched Evans and Mason during poppin’) again took turns center stage. Evans also referred to capoeira, a martial art that slaves disguised as a smooth, smiling dance, as a part of B-boy. Hip-hop was made by those who considered sweating beneath themselves; “hip-hop brought dance back up to feet,” Evans explained. Think of guys on the court who dance in a corner. Now imagine them busting it.

THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000

House was the last style the company showed. House started in Chicago, when it resurfaced from Europe’s transformation of hip-hop into techno music. The company showed this American ownership in their individual adaptations, and the audience stopped being able to clap and started gasping. Duane Holland and James Colter put gymnasts to shame; Holland executed a full back layout and Colter slid, on his dreads, the length of the stage. To close the show the company performed an autobiographical piece by Evans entitled “Breath.” The company performed the words Evans spoke describing his struggle to retain his Trinidad heritage. Evans’ message was “people don’t respect you for who you are; people want to change you into who they want you to be.” After the loud pulse throughout the performance, the silence accompanying Evans’ words and the company’s noise was striking. No one dared breathe (although that was the title of the piece) until the dancers stopped. Then the audience gave the company a standing ovation, and Evans instructed the entire theater to join hands (Mason tried to start a love train.) Everyone repeated “Peace, love, and respect for everyone.” The air was charged with evangelical fervor as Evans continued shouting mottoes, and I wasn’t sure whether I was at a revival or a performance. I really didn’t care.

The Rennie Harris troupe was so immersed in their performance, which was refreshing after the overall disappointment of the previous Artist Series performance, George Gee and his Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra. The Rennie Harris company shared with Davidson the hip-hop culture, which is so underground that we only recognize the corruption of hip-hop in the Beastie Boys’ B-boy imitations, Michael Jackson’s moonwalk (which isn’t really called the moonwalk, and he didn’t really invent it), and the media’s brief eighties fling with “breakdancing.” The show used great music, beginning with James Brown, appropriate lighting, and regular clothes as costumes. The company dazzled us with their talent, their energy, and spirit, guiding us through their world with no pretense of superiority. Rennie Harris: Puremovement was a strong finish to the 1999-2000 Artist Series, and I hope the 2000-2001 program, which also promises four impressive shows, can continue the momentum.

Seniors inducted into Phi Beta Kappa:
Yevgeniya V. ARUTYUNYAN
Sarah Brooke BAGWELL
Janice Alicia BAKER
Sandra Joan BISHOP
Brenda Ann BONDESEN
Suzannah Leigh BOZZONE
Ashley Elizabeth BROWN
Benjamin Joseph BROWN
Patton Elliott BURCHETT
Leslie Ann CARBONE
Robert L. CHANDLER, IV
Elizabeth Ann CLASEN
Randy Dylan CULBERTSON
Allison Kate DOLPH
Virginia Krouse DYE
Stephanie Ann ERICKSON
Karen Joy FRITCHIE
John Stuart FRYE
Benjamin Stubbs GARRISON
Scott Anderson HARPER
Caitlin Welsh HASKELL
Andrew Scott HOLBROOK
Elizabeth Harrod HOLT
Jennifer Lauren HOWARD
Jane Cutter HUGHES
William Clark ISENHOUR
Rahul KARNIK
Margaret Anne LATTERNER
Sarah Kathryn KEITH
Claire Marie LAMPP
Christopher David LEE
Nancy Marshall LIVINGSTON
Jennifer Louise LYON
Robert Andrew MAGNUSSEN
Michelle Lynn MARKEY
Katherine C. MCKNIGHT
Stephanie Kendall MORR
Laura Jane MORRISS
James Hilton NOLEN
Kevin Tyler O’CONNELL
Joslyn Eleanor OGDEN
John Randall POTTER
Adair Louise PRATER