**Corrected OCR Text:**

A couple of old wind-up toys and stuffed animals fill the screen in a montage of short cuts. Two little boys run freely in a forest, laughing quietly. A sickeningly sweet melody plays on the soundtrack, sung by a woman that sounds like Lisa Loeb on helium. But then we hear insistent coughing, and that happy world is slowly ripped away from us. A woman is dying, and her twenty-seven-year-old son Buck is in the next room, folding children’s clothes. He stops folding and enters the room where she is smoking and watching an irrelevant television program.

“Mom?” he asks. She’s dead. And thus opens the best movie of the year. But in a year like this, that’s not saying enough. Chuck and Buck makes the other good movies this year seem depressingly derivative and mediocre (except for The Cell, the only other movie this year that seemed to take any chances at all). Watching the film feels like taking a long breath of air after spending way too long underwater, drowning in drivel like “Hollow Man,” “The Patriot,” and “What Lies Beneath.” It seems impossible that a comedy from the creators of American Pie, Dead Man on Campus, and Nutty Professor II: The Klumps, could be so dark, brilliant, and original.

This phenomenon highlights the primary problem in Hollywood today—marketability. Little bits of all these other movies are present in Chuck and Buck, but here these elements are allowed to flourish rather than disintegrate in favor of mainstream, accessible hokum; but of course, originality comes at a price. This film is only showing at The Manor Theater in Charlotte because most theaters are too afraid of losing money to show such exciting and edgy fare. America likes its simple pleasures, huh?

Buck is the most fascinatingly complex character to grace the screen in a while. He’s still eleven on the inside, and Chuck, his best friend from childhood, is the first person he tells when his mother dies. But they weren’t just friends—they played games that hopefully most children avoid when they are eleven. Chuck comes to visit Buck for the funeral and gets a little more than he bargained for when Buck cops a feel during a consoling hug. Shocked and disturbed, Chuck returns to L.A.; and then Buck moves to L.A. too so he can hang out with Chuck again.

Chuck has grown up and leads a successful life. He has a fiancée, a high-paying job in the music business, and a BMW. Of course, Buck doesn’t understand this. “Is this real?” he asks in one of many pitiful and darkly humorous scenes. “Remember when we used to play like we were businessmen and we would buy office supplies? Are these real ones?” Of course, they are real, but Buck is so tuned in to his childhood experiences with Chuck that he almost shuts down completely without him around, and he’s blind to anything that’s not from childhood. He was fine when his mother was alive, but now there is no one with whom he can relate. He even talks like a kid, recalling the band camp character from American Pie in many lines.

When it becomes clear that the friendship is not likely to be rekindled, and all of his advances go unrequited, Buck writes a play about his fun times with Chuck, providing the film with a whole new dramatic arc that seems to recall elements of Rushmore, Being John Malkovich, and Welcome to the Dollhouse and to wrap them into one fresh new concoction. Cinematically, Miguel Arteta and his cinematographer Chuy Chavez create a stark, contrasting environment.For the characters, Buck often appears in extreme close-up, almost like a picture cut out of a magazine and pasted onto a moving canvas—a technique that parallels the story quite well once the final themes emerge. Hand-held cameras are used often and effectively, evoking a sense of unease and urgency inherent to the story.

Mike White’s portrayal of Buck stands out from the performances of the others. Maybe because White wrote the story, he was able to convey the subtlety and facial nuances required for the role; his performance is Oscar-worthy and so far goes unchallenged this year. The movie’s insistence, however, on making the audience realize what a child Buck remains detracts from the integrity of the film. Lines like, “You need to grow up,” and “Move on,” appear too often in the screenplay, diminishing the faith in the audience these filmmakers obviously possess. Hopefully, more of Hollywood will follow the path of Chris Weitz and Mike White, the actors in the title roles. This isn’t the kind of film that wins awards. They are clearly driven by the art of film rather than money. Instead of making another American Pie or Dead Man on Campus, they chose the risky path and came out looking better and a whole lot more interesting.

Now back to those wind-up toys on Buck’s dresser drawers. They symbolize all that this film is beautifully. At one point, Chuck picks up one of the toys, and it twitches in his hand, finally stopping. Buck is like one of these toys, only knowing one thing in life, unable to escape. It’s nice to see these filmmakers finally throw away the wind-up toy and go for the Legos, creating something that is imaginative, complex, and original rather than prepackaged and automated.

Grade: A-

Eve 6 debuts sophomore album

Simply put, this record is quite exceptional

By THOMAS CULLEN
Staff Writer

Eve 6 returned with a new set full of charged guitar riffs, pounding bass, and aggressive drumming that makes for a collection of songs that define alternative punk music. The boys of Eve 6, Max Collins on vocals and bass, Jon Siebels on guitar, and Tony Fagensen on drums, have matured since their self-titled first release into a highly powerful and cohesive group that shines on this sophomore effort.

Most remember Eve 6 from “Inside Out,” their 1998 hit single, if they remember them at all. After a two-year hiatus, they have returned with Horrorscope and a newly found sense of determination. The record opens with an ambitious number entitled “Rescue” that sets the tone for the entire album. The next song, “Promise,” is simply immaculate. “Promise” is followed by another awesome song by the name of “On The Roof Again.” Much like “Promise,” the song has jagged guitar riffs and fabulous vocals by Collins. It too merits a listen.

Among other songs, “Amphetamines” stands out as the quintessential punk rock song of the record. The bass grounds the song while the guitar shoots off riffs like the guns in computer games. Another noteworthy song is “Bang,” which begins like Limp Bizkit’s “Rearranged,” but recovers to form into some decent music. The record ends with a decent song, but it is definitely lackluster compared to the rest of the record.

Normally, there is something to criticize about a record or band, but here Eve 6 flaunts convention. As much fun as ripping a band to shreds is, this record is magnificent. Eve 6 came back from the studio and offered up a collection of energy-fueled songs that impress and intrigue. There is no way to predict the commercial fate of Horrorscope, but just because a lot of copies aren’t sold doesn’t mean it’s bad. So go ahead, check it out.