By Hope ELWELL - Staff Writer

Digitally speaking, life just got a little easier for Davidson students. A new website called Catkid.com is a fun and informational site created by Davidson students, for Davidson students.

“We started this website to pick up where the administration or the yellow pages leave off,” said Jon Adler ’01, the site’s creator. “The basic intention of Catkid.com is to be an all-you-need-in-one-place type website.”

Ryan Auster ’02, who also works on the site, said it’s designed to be a more student-oriented source. “You get a good idea from Davidson.edu what the administration thinks and now Catkid.com can let you know what your fellow peers think as well,” Auster said.

For example, the site provides students with restaurant reviews and over 40 delivery menus. “We will review restaurants and post whether it is a casual restaurant, a good place to go for a date or hang out with friends, or a place where you need your parents to foot the bill,” Adler said.

However, Adler and Auster agree the most significant contribution Catkid.com makes involves academics. Most of the academic content of the site is currently links to academic resources and job openings, but plans are in the works to include course evaluations. “We'd like students to have access to whether this class is easy or hard, whether that professor is fair, and also course syllabi,” Adler said. “This to me is the most exciting thing we are doing because it really makes sure we as students know we are taking a class that is good for us and helps us learn.”

But not only freshmen can benefit from this site. Catkid.com has features that could be very beneficial to upperclassmen as well. “The class evaluations will be helpful to all students,” Auster said. “They will be able to know not only what their best friend thinks about a course, but what a student three years ahead of them thinks as well.”

10/15/00

Sick/injured student
A student was transported to a local hospital after injuring her ankle during a party at the Pi Kappa Alpha house.

Sick/injured student
A student was transported to a local hospital for treatment.

Damage to property
A parked vehicle in front of Turner house damaged complainant’s vehicle. Scratches were left on the left side of the vehicle’s hood.

Tent removed
An unauthorized tent was removed from in front of Watts and Little halls.

10/14/00

Alcohol policy violation
An on-duty police officer observed several subjects participating in a drinking game at the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house. Disciplinary action is pending.

Alcohol policy violation
5 students received alcohol violations for underage possession/consumption of alcohol while attending a party at the Pi Kappa Alpha house.

10/08/00

Disturbance
Officer responded to a roommate dispute. The roommates were temporarily separated.

Alcohol policy violation
While investigating a complaint at Richardson, an officer observed a student enter the hallway and yell profane statements at an RA and then run into a room. The officer advised the student to open the door. After several requests, the student complied. The officer observed that the student was intoxicated. Further investigation revealed the student was underage. Disciplinary action is pending.

Possession of marijuana
Officer responded to a complaint of possible marijuana usage in Sentelle. Upon arrival, the officer noticed an open door to a room and observed a marijuana pipe that contained marijuana on a table in the room. The occupants of the room denied ownership of the paraphernalia and marijuana. The occupants of the room are responsible for the items located in the room. Disciplinary action is pending.

10/06/00

Vehicle accident
Vehicle #1 was attempting to back up to the loading dock of the Student Union when it hit vehicle #2, which was parked in a no-parking zone. There were no injuries.

Public Safety & Campus Police
Students will soon be able to access links on local restaurant menus, jobs, and even course descriptions. Although course evaluations can be great for students, some of the faculty does not like the idea. “I wish I could tell them not to worry,” Adler said. “We will edit the evaluations before we post them, and make sure they are appropriate. We will get the message across without being insulting.”

Additionally, Catkid.com includes a section called Out’n About, which includes links to sites listing events in Davidson and Charlotte, and the opportunity to join an e-mail list to find out more.more. “We want to help students know what is going on,” Adler said. “Out’n About contains information about happenings in the vicinity of Davidson, which may be of interest to students, but which they may otherwise not find out about.” As well as food, entertainment, and academics, Catkid.com contains a feature called Student Showcase, a mini-online magazine that includes an opinion of the week section, an outlet for anyone to send in their thoughts and ideas. All students are also welcome to contribute to the photography and artwork sections of Student Showcase. “This is your site as a Davidson student and member of the Davidson community,” Adler said. “We are open to suggestions and we want your help.”

New pass/fail policy under scrutiny
By Aaron Houck
Editor-in-chief

In an attempt to reduce their stress levels, hundreds of students each semester opt to take courses on a pass/fail basis. By taking a class in pass/fail form, students receive credit for the course without receiving a grade that counts toward their grade point average. Last spring, the faculty passed a proposal that changed Davidson’s policy on pass/fails. Under the old system, students wishing to take a course pass/fail had to fill out a form and get their advisor’s signature in the first three weeks of the semester. The forms could also be revoked within the first nine weeks of the semester.

“In effect, it seemed that we were playing with deadlines instead of accomplishing a purpose,” declared Dr. Hansford Epes, Registrar. “I initially proposed a change in the policy. The idea was ‘let’s have one deadline instead of two.’” Epes brought his concerns before the Educational Policy Committee of the Faculty. After weeks of deliberation, the committee passed the proposal for a new policy. The resolution then went before the faculty, which also passed it.

The new policy, which came into effect this semester, gives students six weeks to turn in their pass/fail forms, but the deadline for revoking the pass/fail is the same day. Students are still permitted six pass/fail credits for their Davidson careers. The old policy required a great deal of paperwork that burdened the Registrar’s Office, students, and advisors. Rather than discussing the use of pass/fail with their advisors, students were simply having the advisors sign the forms and turn them in. “The advising that was supposed to go into the decision was not,” explained Epes. “So we took the advisor’s signature off and put the advice on the form.”

Epes believes that the new policy has “made life simpler for students, faculty and staff” despite the fact that there has not been a significant change in the number of students applying for pass/fail credit. According to Epes, there are approximately 500 people utilizing the pass/fail system this semester compared to some 600 in the spring. However, Epes stressed that Davidson usually sees a higher number of pass/fails in the spring because underclassmen save their pass/fail for the second semester.

Some students, however, are unhappy with the present system. Jaclyn Beaghan ’03 said, “I don’t see why it is so hard for the college to allow students to withdraw from pass/fail after six weeks. It seems reasonable that one could not decide to pass/fail in the middle of the semester, but rather absurd that if the grade is good, one could not revoke. The system should be designed to benefit the students.”

Dr. Clark Ross, Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty, who chaired the Educational Policy Committee, expressed his approval of the changed policy. “I felt that it would lead to a better use of pass/fails,” he stressed. “[The new policy will] encourage students to take courses outside of their area of expertise, rather than use pass/fails as grade insurance.”

Epes, too, showed concern about students becoming too dependent on the pass/fail system. “I don’t think that a high use of pass/fails looks good on a transcript,” Epes stated. “It can look like [the student] is taking the easy way out.”

Looking at the pass/fail policies of comparable institutions reveals that Davidson is generally more generous toward students than other liberal arts colleges. Many schools do not allow pass/fail credits to be applied to core requirements while Davidson does. The current policy seems to satisfy the faculty and the Registrar’s office, but “we’ll have to see what the students think,” notes Tadd Bevan ’02, who served as an SGA representative to the Educational Policy Committee. “Unless there is a great call for change, I think the policy will stay the way it is.”