THE DAVIDSONIAN, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2000

Davidson rejects CAA invitation

BY DAVID MONCURE
Staff Writer

Earlier this spring, Davidson declined an invitation to join the Colonial Athletic Association (CAA).

A year ago, representatives of the CAA approached the Davidson athletic department with an intriguing offer. They proposed a move
from the Southern Conference, where Davidson has a history of excellence over the years, to the CAA. Fans and coaches
recognized this as a great opportunity for the school’s athletics. This move would have not only increased levels of competition
and exposure for Davidson’s teams but also would have tied the school to programs with similar academic reputations. Ultimately, however,
Davidson rejected the proposal. Members of the athletic department cited extensive travel time and potential instability of the CAA as
critical factors in the decision.

“The big difference [in playing in the CAA] would have been our geographic location in relation to other schools,” explained
men’s soccer head coach Charlie Slagle. “We would have been farther away from conference schools in the CAA than we
are in the Southern, which would have affected academics. We try to schedule games so as not to miss classes,
and the extended travel would have added missed class days.”

After the initial offer about a year ago, CAA commissioner Tom Yeager visited Davidson in December 1999 to explore the
possibility of the conference switch. After having lost American University and East Carolina University, two of the conference’s nine schools,
the CAA wanted to expand. Davidson seemed attractive to the CAA since it was known for its high-quality athletic teams
as well as its stellar academics.

This move, however, would have required “significant change in the Southern Conference as well as significant change in the CAA,
with the addition of more southern schools to the [CAA],” according to athletic director Jim Murphy. In response, Yeager returned
and provided a “what if” situation for the conference switch. He envisioned the creation of two divisions in the CAA.
Several teams from the Southern Conference, including Davidson, Furman, UNC Greensboro, the Citadel, and possibly the College of Charleston, would
have comprised the “Southern Division.” The corresponding “Northern Division” would have included some of the existing CAA schools, such as
George Mason, James Madison, and the University of Richmond (UR). Also involved in the possible deal would have been the
creation of a CAA football conference.

Right now, the CAA does not exist as a conference in the college football world; however, the plan entailed the
formation of such a conference. UR, William and Mary, and JMU would have joined some of the “old” Southern Conference
members to create a “CAA football conference.” Davidson also stood to gain by its participation in the CAA. This conference
is widely regarded as more competitive than the Southern Conference.

Men’s basketball head coach Bob McKillop believed that “it would have been a great challenge for both our men’s and
women’s basketball programs [to play in the CAA].” He also added, “The new areas that we would have played our
games in [such as Richmond and Washington, D.C.] would have given us more recruiting exposure since we traditionally recruit in
those areas and along the northeastern seaboard.” As other coaches noted, however, this increased competition would have come at a
cost to some Davidson teams. For example, men’s tennis head coach Jeff Frank judged budgeting problems to be a serious
obstacle. “Davidson would have been at the bottom of the conference as far as scholarships are concerned,” noted Frank. “Competing
with schools that can give much larger scholarships [such as Virginia Commonwealth University and William and Mary] then becomes harder.
‘Minor sports’ in the Southern Conference are not funded competitively with the CAA.” Field hockey head coach Jennifer Halliday echoed
Frank’s sentiments. “Competition would have increased in the CAA since that conference is more competitive than the Southern Conference.”

The Joe Susan Era Begins

By STEPHEN REBARCHAK
Staff Writer

The last few months have been filled with change for new head football coach Joe Susan. After he left Princeton
to assume the offensive line coach position at Memphis, he was told by athletic director Jim Murphy that the head
coaching job at Davidson was vacant. He declined to interview for the job. “I told him that it wasn’t a
good time because we were just starting spring practice,” said Susan. But opportunity knocked again. After spring practice was completed,
he was informed that the Wildcat head spot was still available. “I see Susan, page 15

Davidson Football ReadiesFor Battle versus Jacksonville this Saturday at 1:30

Women’s Soccer Keeps on Rolling, Defeats UNC Asheville and Elon

Cross Country Coverage INSIDE!!!

Volleyball Hosts Georgia Tech, Georgia State, and UNC Wilmington in Wildcat Classic

Davidson Men Find Success in Annapolis at Navy Soccer Tournament

“As far as I am concerned, the issue is dead.”

The conference has three nationally ranked top-ten teams, but the move would have created problems. The CAA requires turf on
home fields [which is not feasible under our budget],” explained Halliday. Slagle, on the other hand, doubted that the increase
in competition would have been that significant. “The competition in the CAA is stronger overall, however, the top teams are
just as strong in the Southern. Fighting for the top spot in the [Southern] is just as tough as in
the [CAA].”

Another positive aspect of the move was the prospect of being academically associated with schools such as UR and William
and Mary. Murphy pointed out that the move “was not a purely athletic consideration.” Increased access to the Washington, D.C.
and Richmond academic markets was a plus. However, in late May, a bombshell was dropped on all of the informal
planning when the University of Richmond decided to leave the CAA for the Atlantic-10 conference. UR was one of the
founding members of the CAA in 1985, and the move was a shock to the college athletic world. The move
also left the CAA with only 6 members in the conference, which raised questions about the conference’s stability. Murphy noted
that “when Richmond left the Colonial, that ended our interest... they were one of the schools that we wanted to
be associated with academically and athletically in the CAA. We were maybe one week away from a formal invitation to
join the CAA, but Richmond’s departure ended our interest.”

When asked whether or not there still might be any possibility of switching conferences even though Richmond left and the
CAA only has 6 teams, Murphy remarked, “As far as I am concerned, the issue is dead.” Davidson did not
want to move into a conference that showed signs of instability when the Southern Conference has proved stable for years.
Not only did Richmond’s sudden departure raise questions over the CAA’s stability, but also the conference is now in the
midst of a possible lawsuit with American University. American is trying to win back its right to compete in conference
tournaments for NCAA bids because that right was taken away by the CAA after the school announced that it would
be leaving the conference after this year.

Dick Cooke, the baseball head coach, also focused on the academic standpoint when discussing the possibility of playing in the
CAA. Cooke noted, “CAA schools maybe looked at baseball as their best sport to compete in at the national level,
and CAA schools were very committed to baseball. When players come to Davidson, we first want them to think about
their Davidson degree and then think about baseball.” Cooke added, “Davidson’s strong academics attract players here, then they look at
the quality of games in our schedule. However, if we were in the CAA, we would still play a great
non-conference schedule, just our conference games would have switched slightly.”

“Also in the CAA,” Cooke remarked, “there would have been more missed classes because games in the CAA are played
on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, instead of the Saturday and Sunday setup in the Southern. We would have always had
to travel on Friday,” which would have been bad academically speaking.”

Although the move to the CAA would have enhanced Davidson’s national sports exposure, the athletic department felt that the conference
switch was not a wise one overall. Davidson athletics have performed successfully for years in the Southern Conference and look
to continue that bright performance in the future. As Murphy commented, “Davidson has a long-standing history in the Southern Conference,
and I am very pleased staying there.”

MEN’S SOCCER
Sept. 7 @ Charlotte 7:00
Sept. 12 @ North Carolina 7:00
Sept. 13 South Carolina 7:00

WOMEN’S SOCCER
Sept. 6 Charlotte 3:00
Sept. 9 NC State 4:00

VOLLEYBALL
Sept. 5 @ NC A&T 7:00
Sept. 8 @ Clemson 7:00
Sept. 9 Georgetown 1:00
Sept. 9 South Florida 12:00
Sept. 10 Sacred Heart 1:00
Sept. 9 Akron 4:30
Sept. 12 Wofford 7:00

CROSS COUNTRY
Sept. 9 Davidson Invitational
