By Michael J. Kruse
Editor Emeritus

John Powell’s brush with Davidson’s law last semester was not his first. A female student charged him with sexual misconduct
in the fall of 1997. Powell was absolved of any guilt — but not, the junior believes, a soiled reputation.

“I never felt confident they would understand where I was coming from,” Powell said of his Code of Responsibility hearing
last October. “I don’t know if it was my history. But I think the board painted a picture that I
was an angry person with a drinking problem.”

Powell and his father insist they’re not attacking the Code itself — just Davidson’s application of it in this particular
case. But the Powells have questions.

“When is Davidson going to let us solve our own problems?” the younger Powell asked. “To say someone has an
alcohol problem or anger problem is only going to promote anger. This school’s too small to support this type of
system. People can be pushed unfairly. But nobody ever knows about it. The secrecy deal means mistakes can be made.”

Mistakes, adds Robert Powell, that can be made by students, faculty, and administrators who are — at least potentially —
unqualified to come up with certain sanctions. For instance, he asks, does anybody on the Judicial Committee or Review Board
have the educational background or clinical say-so to order alcohol or anger management counseling?

“From a personal standpoint,” he said, “my opinion is that there’s something broken, and I don’t think the college is
addressing that possibility. You can break a state law on campus and the college doesn’t impose any sanctions at all.
But you do something that doesn’t break the state law and you can have a very severe punishment.”

Davidson’s Codes are hardly new to the Powells. The family has had a presence at Davidson for nearly 60 years.
Powell’s grandfather was a member of the Class of 1942 — though he never actually graduated, according to Robert Powell,
after getting suspended twice for missing chapel. Powell’s father graduated in 1969. A pair of uncles followed in 1971 and
1976. His older brother Graham finished in 1997. And a cousin is currently a freshman.

“Our family,” Robert Powell explained, “has a 60-year history of living with Davidson’s Code of Responsibility and Honor Code. Those
people who think we’re trying to undermine the college just don’t know us. We’ve lived there, studied there, given money
there, and we’ve sent our kids there. I’ve given Davidson two of my sons.”

Another son went to UNC only because he earned a Morehead Scholarship. But, according to Robert Powell, his daughter, a
senior in high school this year, is going to Sewanee in the fall, in no small part due to the
current suit and its ramifications.

“This is the honest truth,” John Powell said. “One of the hardest things to deal with is that a lot
of my family has lost faith in the institution. I don’t like seeing my dad, my granddad, and my brother
displeased with where they came from.”

“A long-standing Davidson family and Davidson have had a falling out,” Marsicano added. “There’s no way you can feel good
about that. I don’t see any happy ending to this.”

The Defendants
By Michael J. Kruse
Editor Emeritus

Davidson’s admissions staff makes it clear from the get-go: This school has an Honor Code. All students must understand the
Code, agree with the principles of the Code, and abide by the Code. The creed is put forth in the
form of a written agreement on admit materials. John Powell signed that agreement. So did his parents. And now they’re
suing the school.

“Those people who think we’re trying to undermine the college just don’t know us,” said Robert Powell, John’s father, a
1969 Davidson graduate. “I think we’re trying to enforce the original agreement. Abide by the Honor Code and Code of
Responsibility as it’s printed. The college didn’t do that. We have — with every letter. We’re asking the college to
uphold its side of the bargain.”

But the Powell case raises questions central to Davidson’s trademark Codes: Can the school enforce its own set of rules
and regulations without the threat of outside legal intervention? It highlights the difference between Davidson’s law and the laws governing
society. And it begs the question: When does each apply?

“Minimally speaking, he wants his grades restored,” Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano said. “But I think they feel there’s
more to it. They’re fighting for his honor and reputation. The college is also fighting for several things — our
right to set and uphold our own standards of behavior.”

And if Davidson loses that right?

“As far as I’m concerned,” Dean of Students Tom Shandley said, “we’d lose our ability to judge John — our
ability to just judge him. It doesn’t mean in any way that our honor system falls apart. I think that’s
too dramatic.”

The outcome of the case could set a dangerous precedent for Davidson.

“It does,” Shandley said, “open the door for legal challenges over and over again.”

This isn’t the first time a student has sought outside legal help in challenging Davidson’s Honor Code and Code of
Responsibility. According to President Bobby Vagt, the school last found itself in this type of case “eight or nine years
ago,” and won. Davidson, in fact, has never lost in this situation.

Even the Powells recognize they’re fighting an uphill battle.

“This is kind of like suing the government,” Robert Powell said. “Nobody wins. It’s my opinion that Davidson can delay
and maneuver because they have the money to do that and I don’t.”

But both sides have shouldered considerable legal costs — “a ton of money,” according to Marsicano — in the last
five months. For good reason, Vagt says.

“This court case is important because it challenges the ability of this community to oversee its relations between one person
and another,” he said. “It’s so important that it’ll be incumbent on the college to assert the process we have
in place until we prevail.”

And if Davidson doesn’t prevail?

Said Vagt: “We won’t be the same place.”

Said Hoffman in an e-mail: “Good luck and forget about what happened between us because I have.”

Marsicano charged Powell onOct. 15 with violating Section IV of the Code of Responsibility: “Students will not engage in any
form of activity which intentionally or recklessly results in physical injury to any person on College premises or at College-sponsored
activities, or which interferes with the rights of visitors or members of the community.” The Judicial Committee included Religion professor
Mark Csikszentmihalyi and students Winifred Corrigan and Mike Anderson. The four of them heard Powell’s case on Oct. 21 and
came up with a decision. Marsicano notified Powell of his punishment via e-mail later that day and put a letter
in his Davidson post office box on Oct. 22. Powell challenged the verdict in a Review Board hearing on Nov.
2. The Review Board — Chair Luis Peña, a Spanish professor; Richard Kaye, an English professor; Karen Bernd, a Biology
professor; and Brendan Willmann, a senior who serves as student secretary — upheld the Judicial Committee’s original decision. The Board,
in fact, concluded that Powell’s punishments were, if anything, too light. “He could not really give us a good reason”
for his actions, Willmann said in a Nov. 19 affidavit. “I was dismayed that John had assaulted two students without
any real provocation.” Powell made a final appeal to President Bobby Vagt which was denied on Nov. 8. Powell and
his family consulted outside legal assistance and filed the suit a week later. “We took this course of action,” said
Robert Powell, John’s father, “because we did not feel the procedures outlined in the Code of Responsibility had been followed
in John’s case. “We also didn’t know whether the doctrine of fairness had been applied. And the level of sanctions
did not seem appropriate given the mission of the Code of Responsibility.” Nor did they seem appropriate, Robert Powell added,
in light of Grainger’s lesser sanctions. “My life has been a hundred times harder since Oct. 14 of last semester,”
Grainger said last week. “I’ve had to work really hard over the last five months to prove that I’m not
some sort of violent criminal.” And what, exactly, happened that night with Powell and Hoffman? “I don’t want to go
into it,” Grainger said. “That was a long time ago.” The crux of the Powells’ argument is Marsicano’s actions and
alleged bias during proceedings, along with the level of sanctions. After Powell’s Oct. 21 hearing, Marsicano delivered the sanctions in
a letter dated Oct. 19. The Powells call that evidence of premature judgment. The dean says it was a typo.
Marsicano also had witness statements and police reports from two students who apparently weren’t at KA at the time of
the Oct. 14 incidents. One of them linked Powell with vandalism on the Court. Powell objected to their legitimacy and
consideration in the hearing. Marsicano agreed with Powell and told them they wouldn’t be used. One page of one of
them, though, ended up in Csikszentmihalyi’s packet of information. Marsicano told him to disregard it. Csikszentmihalyi stated in a later
affidavit that he did. Powell and his attorneys also claim the Judicial Committee failed to provide an accurate audio recording
or written transcript of the trial — a violation of Red Book regulations. The college’s lawyers say the recording is
audible if not high-quality. Marsicano then briefed members of the Review Board for 20 minutes prior to Powell’s Nov. 2
appeal. According to the dean and documents obtained by The Davidsonian, Marsicano during that time went over the errors of
the original hearing, a practice the Red Book allows. Still, Powell said, “that’s 20 minutes of someone who thinks I’m
guilty before I even go in there. When I went in there after Dean Marsicano already laid it all out
on the table, I felt like I really didn’t have a shot at all.” To some extent, though, he didn’t
feel like he had a shot to begin with, in large part because of Marsicano’s role in a sexual misconduct
case involving Powell in the fall of 1997. Powell was found not guilty, and Marsicano didn’t chair that trial. She
spoke with Powell’s father on a number of occasions one afternoon and shredded the documents at the end of the
case. That’s all she did. Even so, Powell stated in a Nov. 22 affidavit, “based on Dean Marsicano’s subsequent conduct
toward me, it was clear to me that she was unhappy with the results of the disciplinary proceedings.” But members
of the Judicial Committee think Marsicano was fair throughout. “When it came to actually deciding upon a sanction,” Corrigan stated
in her Nov. 19 affidavit, “she seemed to sit back and wait for me, Mike, and Dr. Csikszentmihalyi to voice
our opinions. Dean Marsicano was absolutely not trying to lobby for a particular outcome.” “While none of the rule violations
or incidents of unfairness are conclusive standing alone,” Powell attorneys Evans and Martin wrote in a Nov. 22 statement, “when
taken as a whole, it becomes very obvious that Davidson deprived John of the opportunity to receive a fair and
just consideration of the offense committed and the subsequent sanctions imposed.” Everett, the judge in Pitt County, agreed enough to
grant the restraining order. “A Temporary Restraining Order,” the Powells’ attorneys explained, “is necessary to protect the rights and interests
of the Plaintiffs during the pendency of this action.” Everett also asked for another trial in front of the Judicial
Committee. A new committee, chaired by Shandley, re-did Powell’s hearing on Dec. 7 and reached the same conclusions. Powell had
another Review Board hearing on Dec. 16. The Board again upheld the verdict and sanctions. There is no definitive legal
timetable at this point. The next step in Powell et al. v. Davidson College Board of Trustees is deposition —
a round of interviews with those involved in the case. “It could go on for a long time,” Marsicano said.
“There’s some sense of urgency, though, because some of the people involved will be graduating in May.” Said Powell: “I’m
ready to just get it over with.” “To me,” Corrigan added in her affidavit, “it is a dishonor to the
fabric of Davidson College that this matter has been brought to court.”
