The Davidsonian

By Tom Anstrom
Staff Writer

Judging by last week’s cake race, the 63rd of its kind at Davidson, the freshman class is in pretty good
physical shape. But that doesn’t mean it doesn’t enjoy a good cake every now and then. More than 300 of
the college’s 465 freshmen participated in the annual race, setting out on a newly-designed course that started in Richardson Stadium
and wound its way towards the Chambers building, down Main Street, through Patterson Court, and back into the stadium.

In the men’s race, Colby Broadwater of Ft. Hood, TX, edged out cross-country teammate Ben Gaspar of Lake Bluff, IL,
to take first place with a time of 7 minutes 53 seconds. Finishing third, just six seconds behind the winner,
was cross-country runner Chris Schmader of Hillsborough, NC. The men’s cross-country team claimed seven of the top eight spots and
dominated the race.

The women’s race was just as thrilling, with Colleen Faes of Howell, MI, capturing the title with a time of
9 minutes 28 seconds. Taking second and third in the women’s race were Jenna Kruppa of Dublin, OH, and Kathrine
Hatch of Portland, OR, respectively. Cross-country coach Gary Andrew said that judging the runners’ talent was difficult because the course
had not been run before. But he said that this was a very “exciting” freshman class.

Other notable runners in the race were Director of Media Relations Bill Giduz, who ran the entire race while juggling,
and college president Bobby Vagt, who ran the race wearing the Wildcat mascot’s giant, furry head. Vagt said running with
the head is “okay for the first 100 yards,” but that breathing becomes a problem by the end of the
race. Vagt has been running the race in the mascot’s head every year since becoming president.

Faculty and local residents showed their support for the students by contributing 99 cakes for the hungry runners. The top
50 men and the top 49 women received cakes. Broadwater chose first and selected a giant yellow duck cake that
was so big it required several of his teammates to help him carry it off the field. Faes, who described
the race as “hard but fun,” selected a huge cake covered in M&Ms.

Volleyball’s Darwinism — new coach, same expectations

By Mike Anderson
Staff Writer

The Wildcats will look to build upon last year’s seamless campaign under the tutelage of first-year head coach Tami Darwin.
Darwin, who was hired after the departure of instant legend Lisa Marston last fall, has been touted as the perfect
match for a Davidson squad striving to balance athletic prowess with academic achievement. Big shoes to fill? Absolutely.

Darwin spent her college days at Duke University, where she made the ACC-Academic Honor Roll while helping the Blue Devils
to four straight ACC titles. “Tami is a great fit for Davidson,” Athletic Director Jim Murphy said. “She has played
and coached in a strong, competitive athletic and academic environment. She understands what it takes to be successful at a
school like Davidson.”

Darwin inherits the program from Marston, the two-year running Southern Conference Coach of the Year who left for the Charlotte
job last fall. Marston guided Davidson to the peak of greatness, steadily improving a perennial basement-dwelling program into Davidson’s most
successful women’s team ever. But, by all accounts, Darwin has hit the ground running. “I’m not anxious about the future,
and I’m not focused on the past,” says the assistant coach Kelley McCaffrey.First-year coach. “I’m taking each day one at
a time. I’ve asked that these girls give 110% for every practice and every game, and if they do that
I know the results will come.” Since coming to Davidson this past spring, Darwin has quickly earned the favor of
many. “Tami has been really well-received by our team,” says Mara Mordini ‘01. Players praise her commitment to camaraderie and
so-called “character goals.”

“We’ve set some numerical goals as a team,” acknowledges Darwin. “But a lot of our goals are character goals versus
numerical goals. We all feel that if we focus on character goals such as communication and work ethic, then everything
else will fall into place.”

Darwin’s most applauded move as head coach thus far has been the retention of McCaffrey, who served under Marston last
season and has been described as an invaluable asset. “(Darwin) could have come in with a whole new system and
changed everything around,” said one Wildcat. But instead, Darwin’s decision to stay the course (retaining McCaffrey) “speaks volumes about her
coaching style and confidence.”

According to Vagt, the race originally served a dual purpose. It not only allowed incoming students to greet people on
campus and in town but also gave then-cross-country coach Heath Whittle a chance to identify promising track and cross-country runners.
Vagt said one thing that has really changed about the race since he attended Davidson is the fact that “the
participation of the rest of the campus has increased over the last thirty years.”

Bill Giduz

To the winner go the spoils...

Cake Race Winners:
1st - Colby Broadwater
2nd - Colleen Faes
3rd - Ben Gaspar
Jenna Kruppa
Chris Schmader
Katherine Hatch

Third in Pre-Season Polls

The Davidson women’s soccer team was predicted to finish second in the Southern Conference pre-season poll. The Wildcats received two
of the ten first-place votes and trailed only Furman in the voting. Furman swept the 1999 regular season with a
perfect 9-0 league record and won the conference tournament in a 2-1 win over Davidson in four overtime periods.

The Wildcat men were picked to finish third in the conference. Furman was picked to repeat their 1999 championship. UNC
Greensboro finished second in the voting, followed by the Wildcats.

Wildcats Selected Pre-Season All-Conference

Three Davidson soccer players were recently selected as pre-season all-conference by the Southern Conference coaches. Representing the Wildcat women’s team
was Tara Maloney ‘03. Maloney played in all 23 games last season, tying two other Wildcats for the team lead
in goals (6) and was third in total points (17). For the men, Wildcat midfielder Dane Erickson ‘01 and defender
David Buehler ‘01 were named to the team. Erickson, a co-captain in 2000, started 20 matches, finishing second in assists
(8) and third in points (11) for Davidson. Buehler, who will also serve as a captain, started 20 games in
1999 and added two assists.

Volleyball Wildcats Garner Honors

The Southern Conference volleyball coaches have selected Davidson to repeat as the regular season champion in 2000. Davidson received six
of the 11 first-place votes from the league coaches in the pre-season poll. Seniors Brooke Bentley and Mara Mordini and
junior Erica Schwartz were named to the pre-season all-conference team.

Basketball McKillop Works With Team USA

Wildcat men’s basketball coach McKillop served as a floor coach this summer at the 2000 USA Basketball Men’s National Team
Trials at the U.S. Olympic Training Center.
