W_ E By Michael J. Kruse D N > © a 7 FS = D E A Y

Wildcats finally defeat Charleston
Staff Writer

CHARLESTON, S.C. — With 5:46 to go Jan. 15 at the College of Charleston’s Kresse Arena, forward Landry Kosmalski drove the lane on a mini-break, drew contact, converted the layup, and a fist-pumping spasm with teammate Jeff Bergmann. The Wildcats’ lead was 13 — and Charleston’s streak was over.

More appropriately, Charleston’s streaks were over. Twenty-two straight league wins. Done. Twenty-five straight home wins. Done. And nine straight wins this season. Done.

“I want to congratulate the College of Charleston and what they’ve accomplished in this conference,” coach Bob McKillop said. “But it’s a great feeling to be the ones to stop the streak.”

Even if it was 12 months late. Almost a year after taking the final seven minutes to blow a 15-point lead against Charleston at home, the men’s basketball team exorcised a whole slew of demons here in the Lowcountry, knocking off the vaunted Cougars 71-58 in front of a sell-out crowd at Kresse. If ever there was sweet redemption — poetic payback — this was it.

“I think this team needs to feel very good about themselves,” McKillop said. “I had a feeling after the Furman game. I felt something.”

Maybe that something was Stephen Marshall. The 6-foot-8 senior post player scored 20 points in the second half for the second straight game. After going scoreless in the first 20 minutes Saturday — he was sidelined for most of the period due to foul trouble — Marshall was unstoppable in the final period.

“We’ve got to get him shots,” McKillop said. “When we get him shots he’s going to give us numbers. And he did it today against one of the best centers in the conference — probably one of the best in the Southeast.”

That'd be Jody Lumpkin. He made 11-of-16 field goals against Davidson for a game-high 25 points. For all intents and purposes, though, Lumpkin was a one-man show. High-flying and high-scoring wings Jeff Bolton and James Griffin managed only 16 points combined. Griffin, a transfer from Wake Forest, struggled mightily, missing all five of his shots from the floor and ending up with just five points from the line.

“We’ve got to get Griffin and Bolton more involved,” said Kresse, the third-winningest active coach in college basketball. “But Bob McKillop is a great coach, and his team took it to us physically. They have NBA physicality.

“I think in the back of their minds was that loss last year. They were ready for a war, and they really took it to us in the second half.”

And, unlike Charleston’s singular attack, Davidson’s arsenal included a gaggle of Wildcats. Point guard Michael Bree hit two crucial second-half three-pointers. Senior guard Jeff Bergmann nailed an enormous three just as Charleston was threatening to come back down the stretch. Kosmalski finished with 15 points. Starting guard Brian Turner added 12. Even rookie post players Jason Dickens and Michel Lusakueno contributed quality minutes. Lusakueno had six rebounds, and Dickens tied the game at 37 with a dunk.

The Wildcats took it from there — and finished off what they started last January.

“I don’t think we were consumed by revenge,” said Marshall, who also grabbed eight rebounds, which came on the offensive glass. “But we have been thinking about it.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"It for the last year." "Last year we tried to hit home runs in the last seven minutes," said Bergmann, who played a much more important role in the victory than his six-point, two-steal stat line indicates. "This is a very big win for us." Perhaps the biggest win for the Wildcats since they beat Appalachian State for the 1998 conference tournament championship and the league’s automatic bid to the NCAAs. Charleston stole some of Davidson’s reigning thunder last year in sweeping its way to March Madness. Added Bergmann: "We needed to prove to the rest of the Southern Conference — and to ourselves — that Davidson is still a force to be reckoned with." "We were talking about swagger before the game," said Kosmalski, a senior captain. "And you saw swagger tonight."

Only in his first year, Bernard no stranger to rivalry. Mike Anderson Bernard knows his hoops history. By Mike ANDERSON Editor-in-Chief

Wayne Bernard hit the hardwood at John Kresse Arena like a man on a mission. Fitting, because that’s exactly what he was. It had been almost one year since the Cougars eviscerated the hearts and souls of Wildcat fans with a demoralizing 15-point comeback shocker at Belk Arena. The Wildcat point guard was a high school senior at the time, but he has long since heard all about that notorious night. "Even though I wasn’t here last year, it was all about revenge for me. I saw the upperclassmen getting hyped up, and I said, 'We’ve got to beat them.'" Beat them they did. And then some.

Charleston entered the contest with an indomitable 22-0 record in Southern Conference play, and an equally impressive 25-game winning streak within the hallowed halls of their John Kresse Arena (affectionately referred to as "The John" by Charlestonians). But Davidson strutted into the evening match-up with an insatiable hunger, a defiant swagger, and a long memory. "We weren’t consumed by revenge," Stephen Marshall said, "but we have been thinking about it for the last year." And just in case they had forgotten, the raucous Cougar faithful were none-too-shy about offering some subtle reminders. One young fan waved a poster reading, "Cougs know what to do leading by 15!" Wayne just smiled. "They had a big crowd. They were yelling at us, talking trash to us, but I love that. I used that to help hype the team up. Towards the end of the game, when I drove and gave Stephen the pass for that dunk, I loved it! The crowd hated it, but I loved it."

The season thus far has posed a number of bonding opportunities for the Wildcat players, including contests against some of the top teams in the nation and a long California road trip that included a millennium celebration. But none of them could compare to the unified effort that toppled the Cougars. "That puts a lot more confidence into us," Bernard says. "We know now that we can beat anybody in the conference."

DSS' GAMES OF THE WEEK INSIDE...

Men’s BASKETBALL
1/29 UNC Greensboro 7:00
1/31 Appalachian State 7:00
2/1 Wake Forest 7:00

SWIMMING AND DIVING
1/29 Duke 12:00
1/30 Virginia Tech 2:00

WRESTLING
1/28 Duquesne 6:30 p.m.
1/29 UNC-G Quadrangular* 10 a.m.
1/29 Georgia Southern 3:00
2/1 East Tennessee State 7:00

INDOOR TRACK
1/28-29 Forsyth County Collegiate Open

Boldface indicates home game
Italics indicate Southern Conference games

Ryan Crawford leaving Davidson to coach UNCC
Lisa Marston named All-American volleyball
Davidson sweeps home stand, picks up three SoCon wins
Meagan Gleason nailed a three-pointer with seconds left to seal Davidson’s win over Wofford last Saturday at Belk Arena. Her defense wasn’t too shabby, either. See inside.