— The editors recently received a letter with the following warning printed on the back: “If you are a P.C.
robot, don’t open. You can’t handle the truth!” This letter contained three pieces of propaganda from the publication American Renaissance
as well as an article from the November 1, 1999 issue of Time. One of the items bore the title,
“Let’s Face it: The Issue is Race. Crime, Illegitimacy, School Failure, Decaying Cities, Welfare Abuse, Immigration...” This selection also commented,
“Despite what the media would have us believe, race matters. It is part of human biology.” And further, “A neighborhood
or school that is overwhelmingly black is different in countless ways from one that is white — or Hispanic or
Vietnamese.” The included article described the tragic stories of rape victims in South Africa. It also contained the statistic that
the South African rape rate in 1998 was roughly three times as high as that in the United States. We
can only presume that this article was meant to support the contention that, in the words of Jared Taylor, editor
of American Renaissance, “race matters.”

Such racist propaganda is deeply disturbing from a moral perspective. It is positively repulsive that educated people could espouse such
views, much less organize and fund publications such as Mr. Taylor’s. Their rhetoric of racial exclusivity stands in fundamental opposition
to the ideals upon which this nation was founded. Nevertheless, as compelling as moral arguments are, examination of such racist
claims reveals their inherent irrationality. American Renaissance would have the reader believe that social problems are traceable directly to our
genetic codes, as if the slight addition of pigment would make a person more prone to violent behavior. This argument
is reductionist and attributes a huge complex of problems to a single factor.

One wonders if Taylor and his associates believe that people of a certain race cannot help but engage in criminal
behavior. If their behavior is predetermined, then do others have a right to punish them for what they will inevitably
do? Or perhaps they think that violent behavior is a fundamental component of certain cultures, and thus only incidentally related
to race. If this is the case, then does Taylor think that particular societies encourage anti-social behavior? Social problems result
from a number of interrelated factors, including economic status, upbringing, education, and, of course, personal decisions. History shows that crime
and violence have plagued all civilizations in all eras. Culture and genetics may indeed play a role in this, but
this role cannot be isolated from other factors and is certainly not the primary cause. It makes about as much
sense to say that blacks are predisposed to be criminals as it does to say that whites are more likely
to be bigots.

While we might like to think that we are insulated from this at Davidson, unfortunately, this campus has had its
own encounters with racism in various forms. Two years ago, a flyer announcing a speech by a black politician was
vandalized. This led to campus-wide discussions and eventually to changes in the Code of Responsibility regarding harassment. Even more recently,
someone left the following comment on a whiteboard in one of the residence halls: “We should have a hall program
where we beat up people from Yemen.” This statement appeared days after a terrorist group attacked a U.S. naval vessel
refueling in a Yemeni harbor. While the note was hopefully meant in jest, it was tasteless and racist.

Clearly, there is much difference between the actions of Taylor and American Renaissance and of the author of this ill-conceived
joke. Taylor and his cohorts are actively engaged in furthering their agenda of hatred; whoever left the message about beating
up people from Yemen was displaying ignorance and insensitivity. Nevertheless, both lead to dangerous generalizations that benefit no one. The
average Yemeni citizen had as little to do with the bombing as the horrified Americans watching CNN. Placing blame on
others based solely on their ethnic ties to the criminals generates the feeling that they ought to be punished. Such
a narrow-minded reaction to violence produces more violence and exacerbates existing tensions.

No one claims that we live in a perfect world. However, if we are to address social problems, we have
to avoid short-sighted explanations based on fear and ignorance. Mr. Taylor, the issue isn’t race. It’s your desire to make
the “truth” fit your preconceived notions of people.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors-in-chief
The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

CIRCULATION MANAGERS: Matt Whited, Renee Miller

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Ashooh should stop moralizing

For the past several weeks I have read with interest Mr. Ashooh’s increasingly conservative op-ed pieces. I’ve heard him attack
the Clintons and Al Gore while exalting Republican Presidential candidate Gov. G. Bush. While his views on politics might not
mirror my own, I respected his right to state his opinion, despite the absence of relevant facts to back the
personal attacks. However, with his October 4th article on RU-486, Mr.Ashooh has reached a new low in his desire to
moralize and call names. First of all, as a male, Mr. Ashooh is seriously limited in his ability to write
a sensitive and balanced article on the topic of abortion. He will never have to face this difficult choice. Yet,
despite his gender, he feels entitled to "RU-486." We do not need such intolerant attitudes here. Say what you might
about the Presidential race, Mr. Ashooh, but from now on I'll thank you kindly to keep your morals out of
my womb. And to the women of Davidson, remember that George W. Bush promised, if elected, to create an administration
that “respects life.” Is a tax cut really worth the loss of your personal freedom? If you’ll pardon me, I’d
rather pay.

Jessica Benoit ‘01

Non-surgical abortion is a question for science, not for morality

The latest debate over the FDA’s approval of RU-486, the only non-surgical method of abortion, has threatened to turn what
should be a completely scientific process into a moral and ideological argument. Using a security blanket from the real abortion
debate, i.e., the internal debate a woman must face, he attacks women who might seek an abortion in the most
grossly inappropriate terms imaginable. He calls women who seek or consider abortion “selfish and cowardly.” Excuse me? Pregnancy termination is
always a difficult choice; it might even be the wrong choice in given circumstances, but how is it more selfish
or cowardly than bringing a child into this world without the ability and desire to raise it in the loving
and supportive manner every child deserves? Is he going to raise all these children?

Secondly, I'd like to call to readers’ attention the overzealous language Mr. Ashooh himself uses. He likens Mifepristone to “Holocaust-era
medical policies.” This is an insult not only to women who support their right to choose but to Jews and
other Holocaust victims. Likening the choice of a controversial medical treatment to the wholesale slaughter of millions of people is
not only specious reasoning but inappropriate as it belittles the suffering of those involved in any real holocaust. And as
for anything resembling a real holocaust here in the U.S., I ask Mr. Ashooh to return to his beloved George
W.’s seemingly arbitrary and reckless use of the death penalty throughout his tenure as Governor of Texas. Are the lives
of death row inmates worthless, but that of a fetus precious? I find this selective morality distasteful in the utmost.

Last, I would like to ask Mr. Ashooh to tender his resignation as moral arbiter to the women of Davidson
College. I don’t know about the rest of the women of Davidson, but I feel confident that I can find
my own moral compass without the intrusive intervention of young men who feel justified in hurling insults. It is hard
enough for any young woman to take control of her reproductive health without having to be exposed to those who
would question her “integrity.” Mr. Ashooh, real integrity is respecting others, not insulting others with your slanted and rude language,
especially in regards to a crisis that you will never face. It is articles like his that serve to encourage
the terrorist tactics of anti-choice activists. We do not need the woman’s right to choose hanging in the balance.

In January 1973, in its landmark Roe vs. Wade decision, the Supreme Court invalidated anti-abortion statutes in 46 states, with
certain and specific restrictions. Citing a constitutionally implied right to privacy, the court reaffirmed the basic right to a woman’s
dominion over her body. The states could still prohibit abortion in the third trimester or regulate its practice to protect
the health of the mother. What the Supreme Court did not do, however, was draw a distinction between surgical and
non-surgical abortion. The methods used were largely left up to the patient and her doctor.

Jump to the end of the twentieth century. Although legal, abortions have not enjoyed the legal status given to all
other surgical procedures. Debate continually rages on its inclusion in Medicaid and other entitlement programs, and many federal legislators are
unwilling to guarantee abortion legal protection as a medical procedure. In towns and cities across America, those who practice abortion
are vilified and those who seek it are run out of town. This stigma is not hard to understand, but
neither is it valid or warranted. Regardless of its immorality/morality, its use has been affirmed as a right of the
individual. Only a constitutional amendment or reversal by the Court itself could change that. Therefore, to seek to limit its
use by restricting so-called “convenient” methods of its practice is not only bad governance, it’s also ignorance at work. I
doubt that any woman would describe any method of abortion as “convenient,” and to imply that the impact of the
decision to have an abortion is made easier is to fundamentally misunderstand the issues facing women who choose to have
abortions. All over America, people face difficult situations: congenital defects, inadvertent exposure to harmful substances, financial dependence, and maturity. Women
have compelling and important reasons to choose abortions. The women themselves can only judge the morality of those decisions.
