THE DAVIDSONIAN

This semester, the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility, and various attitudes toward them, have been the subjects of many articles and opinions in at least three different editions of the Davidsonian. Most notable of these are the front- and second-page articles in the March 23 edition about the college being sued for unfairly applying the codes and the editorial in last week’s edition daring students to reply to the issues brought up in VIEWPOINT.

In the March 23 Davidsonian, the father of John Powell, the plaintiff in the lawsuit, is quoted as saying, “Abide by the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility as it’s printed. The college didn’t do that. We have—to every letter.” Surely this sentiment is directed towards the proceedings involving sanctions and appeals, but it is clear that John Powell did not abide by Section IV of the Code of Responsibility, which deals with misconduct affecting the rights of others. Therefore he was found guilty and received punishment, although he and his family believe the punishment was unfair and based on bias resulting from previous proceedings.

Powell’s father questioned whether students with legal background were qualified to tell his son that he needed counseling for anger management and potential alcohol problems. Is this so different from the American legal system where citizens are required to serve on juries to determine guilt or innocence and subsequent punishment? I think our system at Davidson is better than the legal system because students here have a say in who makes the decisions. We vote for people to serve on the Honor Council, whereas the juries in courtrooms are often made up of poorly educated people who can’t get out of jury duty and who certainly don’t have any legal training.

Powell feels that the various committees before which he appeared were biased, but we elect members of the Honor Council based on our belief that they can and will give fair trials to any student who is brought before them. Are the Codes too secretive? To some degree I believe they are. As Honor Council Chair Justin Perkinson pointed out in last week’s Davidsonian, privacy is needed to protect the accused, the accuser, and the members of the Honor Council. Perkinson suggested that more detailed descriptions of cases might be presented in the Davidsonian in order to decrease wonder about what is and is not a violation of the Codes. This could be useful, but if you actually read the Codes in the Red Book, it becomes clear that Davidson College holds us to a higher standard than in other communities.

I do not believe the Codes are too in your face or holier than thou. As it was mentioned in previous articles, we knew very well the meaning of the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility before we even applied to Davidson. Our tour guides explained it, we wrote an essay on our application about what it meant to us personally, and we signed agreements to abide by the Codes. Every review, exam, or paper we turn in has our name signed to a pledge. Finally, the Codes are in line with the college’s historical and present ties to the Christian faith, which demands that its community members uphold certain moral standards. I believe the Codes are still very much a part of life at Davidson.

While I think that most communities expect us to think about what the Codes mean to us as students and to decide whether they are “too perfect, too secretive, too in your face, holier than thou, or too harsh,” these questions were addressed concerning the Honor Code in a two-page spread in the Feb. 17 edition of The Davidsonian, so this editorial will focus on the Code of Responsibility. The preamble of this Code recognizes “that the educational process encompasses far more than academic activities” and states that the reason for the Code is “the promotion of a climate that is most conducive to its (the college’s) purpose” of educating students. To this end, the Code encourages students to develop “responsible maturity” by “wrestl(ing) with principles of conduct and accept(ing) full responsibility for their own actions and decisions.”

Michael Kruse challenged us to think about what the Codes mean to us as students and to decide whether they are “too perfect, too secretive, too in your face, holier than thou, or too harsh.” These questions were addressed concerning the Honor Code in a two-page spread in the Feb. 17 edition of The Davidsonian, so this editorial will focus on the Code of Responsibility.

Sketch, from page 8, as she understands it, it applies to everyone she interacts with whether they have anything to do with Davidson or not. Based on what she is allowed to tell me, and also on the emotional facts talking about it lays bare, I am able to say that some of the goings-on struck me as far from the traditional idea of fairness, beginning with the fact that one has to enter into it without the slightest idea of what is actually going to transpire. It sounds confusing and arbitrary to me as a second-hand observer. I can’t imagine going through it. In the final analysis, I don’t think the system is very accountable to me or to you. Accountability, at least theoretically, keeps people, organizations, and processes clean. I don’t know if we can make the system any more accountable without compromising it as a whole, but I would like to look into it. How can we have any sort of real discourse about the Honor Code when we know so little about it? Am I the only one out there who feels this way? I sincerely hope not. Sheep indeed. The status quo is not always the best answer; it’s usually the easier one. For me, bucking the status quo means knowing that if my worst nightmares came true and I was brought before the Honor Council, I know I would request an open trial. Even if I knew I was guilty, even if it meant humiliation, even if I couldn’t ever come back to Davidson. At least I wouldn’t be part of the silence.

Alison Nicole Thomas ‘02

We are expected to be able to judge for ourselves what we should and should not be doing. If you have to wonder whether something is against the Codes, you probably shouldn’t do it.The problem with reading the Red Book is that it is no longer in print; it is only available online. While this certainly saves money and paper, it also makes the Red Book less accessible, especially to those who don’t have computers in their rooms. I doubt that many people read the Red Book extensively when individual copies were sent, but I bet even fewer read it when Dean Jeffries sent an email saying where the Red Book could be accessed online. One click on the delete icon, and the Red Book is lost to that student. If every student had their own copy, the Codes would walk through Chambers or Commons on voting days. The fact that it was one of the best turnouts in recent history may reveal a concern for the Codes as a result of the articles about the lawsuit which appeared the week before the elections. Along with the voter turnout, the ratio of candidates for Honor Council to the number of seats available (44:6) is incredible. I think these two numbers show that the Codes are a long way from being obsolete at Davidson, and they echo President Bobby Vagt’s sentiments presented in last week’s Davidsonian that Davidson would not be the same if the Codes were to disappear.

Kelley Cantrell ‘02

“Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter.”

Send Viewpoints to erschwartz.

On the United States, Pakistan, Terrorism, and Kashmir

Today, the words “Islam” and “terrorism” used together in the same sentence are so easily associated with each other that the writer doesn’t even have to rationalize or prove his allegations. So I wasn’t too surprised when I picked up the March 30th Davidsonian, and sure enough, in an article discussing Pakistan, the two words were liberally sprinkled all over. Pakistan is a predominantly Muslim country, so I doubt too many eyebrows were raised when it was accused of sponsoring terrorism in Kashmir. With President Clinton’s recent visit to South Asia, the existing (note: not heightening) tensions over Kashmir have come to the limelight. Pakistan asked for his mediation over the issue, India told him to stay away. Pakistan wants mediation to ensure fair and public negotiations. The Indians have used one excuse after another to refuse talks. In 1999, the condition for talks was the cessation of hostilities in the Kargil region, and withdrawal to pre-conflict borders. When this was accomplished, the condition became peace in the troubled Indian-occupied Kashmir. India claims that Pakistan supplies weapons and training to the insurgents. Pakistan maintains it provides only moral and diplomatic support. Only last week, Pakistan, citing the economic drain caused to both countries due to the arms race resulting from the tensions, invited the Indians for unmediated talks on Kashmir. India turned down the offer, demanding Pakistan first order the freedom fighters in Kashmir to stop their armed struggle. The request is impossible to fulfill, comparable to the British government demanding that the Government of Ireland order the IRA to disband.

Few people here in the US know that the more militant groups operating in Kashmir are products of America’s own policy of checking the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The US provided sophisticated arms to them, to fight the communists. With the Soviet withdrawal, these fighters lost their cause and looked around for other arenas to use their skills. The US, with all their resources, could not stop them (we all know the Usama bin Laden tale). How can Pakistan? With more than a thousand miles of uninhabited desert border, it is next to impossible to seal it against groups crossing over from Afghanistan. These same groups then cross over to India, who again cannot seal their own border.

Armed hostilities first started in the region in 1948 when the Muslim population of Kashmir, wanting to unite with Pakistan, rose against their Hindu ruler, whose dynasty had purchased the state from the British. Refusing to yield to their requests and in danger of losing his throne, the ruler invited the Indian army into Kashmir, on the condition that he would relinquish his throne to the government of India. With the repression of the Kashmiri population by a foreign government on its borders, Pakistan was forced to react and send its forces in to protect the Kashmiris. Both armies clashed until January 1949, when on India’s request, the UN sponsored a ceasefire between India and Pakistan in Kashmir. The Security Council resolution called for a plebiscite in Kashmir, letting the people decide their own future. Fifty-one years later, India has yet to hold the promised vote.

Today, the issue is not simply one of clashing ideologies or religions. The Indian government is headed by a Nationalist Hindu party. It was this government that brought peace talks between India and Pakistan to a swift halt in May 1998, with nuclear tests carried out 40 miles from the Pakistan border (imagine the Soviets testing nuclear weapons across the Bering Straits near Alaska). Last month India also announced a one-third increase in its defense budget. Such actions overheat an already smoking arms race. Pakistan, a majority Muslim country, is at present headed by a liberal, pro-western, and secular military government. The ruler is a career army officer who has been trained in the west. One of his first acts in power was to try and control religious groups operating in the country. Given his meager resources and a collapsing economy, this is a Herculean task. American support could make or break his effort to stem the rise of Muslims whose narrow-minded interpretation of the religion is a far cry from mainstream Islam. It is these people who are given a shot of energy every time Pakistan is reprimanded and faced with fresh sanctions. It is important to remember that these elements are a small minority with almost no local support. In the last 10 years, no religious party has won a single seat in the parliament.

As the US forges ahead with its newfound interest in South Asia, it has to balance old allies with new business partners. Pakistan helped with the defeat of the Soviets in Afghanistan, and also paved the way for Nixon’s historic visit to Beijing that thawed relations between the US and China (how many of you knew that?). So next time you see the words Pakistan, Islam, terrorism, and Kashmir in the same article, try not to assume that all Pakistanis are terrorists hell-bent on conquering Kashmir and throwing non-Muslims out. There just might be another side to the story someone forgot to mention.

Fahd Guhl ‘99