sity, is also the author of the prize-winning 1986 book "Was Einstein Right?" Appearing as the college’s Smith Lecturer, Will will begin his free public address at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. The author will not only discuss how Einstein’s theory of relativity is important to our daily lives, but will also talk about the sometimes messy personal life of this quirky genius.

Symphony to perform American Classics, Beethoven

The music department will celebrate the centennial of the birth of composer Aaron Copland in Love Auditorium presentations on November 12 and November 14. Associate Professor Milton Crotts will direct the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra.

By Luke, Staff Writer

Students who think they are getting a good deal on a computer for next semester should think again. At least eight incidents of stolen laptops from vehicles in Mecklenburg and surrounding counties have been reported. Davidson campus police and the Cornelius Police Department say the thieves might plan on selling the laptops to area college students at reduced prices.

“These people know that many college students do not have jobs and will not hesitate to pay $300 for a $1,500 computer,” said Steven Davis of the Cornelius police. Davis advises students to think twice before buying an expensive laptop at such a drastically reduced price. “If someone is trying to sell a $1,500 computer for $300, the very rational assumption one could make is that the item has been stolen,” he remarked.

Whether individuals would get in trouble for such a purchase would have to be decided on a case-by-case basis. However, he added that possession of stolen property is technically a misdemeanor and can have significant consequences. Officials believe no one has attempted to sell laptops to local students yet, but Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey warns that it is still possible. “What we want to do is to promote greater awareness of the situation on the Davidson campus,” he stated.

Davis said he does not believe that the thefts are a localized group operation, considering that anyone looking for some extra money can easily commit the crime. He feels there could be a wide variety of different motives for the thefts. “These [people] are not just crack heads,” he said. The crime constitutes a larceny from motor vehicles, a felony that could result in a maximum two-year sentence if convicted. “Apparently, there has been a group of individuals working all across the state, targeting college campuses,” noted McKelvey.

Davis emphasized that the situation is extremely serious and that there will be consequences for those found to be involved, either in stealing or buying the items. “If anyone has come into contact with this sort of thing, please let us know,” he stressed. The North Mecklenburg Crime Stoppers of the Cornelius Police Department is offering a reward for anyone who has information regarding the stolen laptops. Reach the office at (704) 896-7867.

Campus phone service crashes, raises student concerns

By Zeb Kelley, Staff Writer

Campus residents tried in vain to place calls last Wednesday, November 1, around 6:00 p.m. This short-term outage caused some sense of distress in the residence halls. Students were dismayed to discover that they were unable to receive or make calls of any kind. For some residents, however, this was not the first time they have experienced this inconvenience. A student reported that on Richardson Hall, the phones have been down, “three or four times, sometimes for just an hour or two, sometimes for over a day.” The student said that, “the longest period was right before fall break. No incoming or outgoing calls and no voicemail. Once I had to call Dell Computer for help for my computer, but I couldn’t call from my room because the phone was out, so I had to carry everything over to the library.”

Complaints such as these seem to be common in both Richardson and Belk dorms, and on Wednesday night, across the entire campus. Telecommunications Coordinator Crystal Lear said of the incident, “Wednesday evening, the phone system failed around 5:20 p.m. Bell South, Davidson’s telephone company, came out and restored service by 6:50 p.m.” Lear also added that, “At around 8:00 p.m. West Hall phone service went down. A tech from Bell South came back to campus and returned telephone service at 10:15 p.m.”

Lear described the telephone system as consisting of a main control switch in Chambers that runs service to remote branches in all of the residence halls. This means that if there is a problem in the main telephone control panel, service across campus may be affected.Reported that Bell South came out on Saturday to further investigate the problems that caused Wednesday night’s outages. As for long-term resolution of the problem, Lear said that on Tuesday morning, Telecommunications upgraded the NorTel Telephone System to add a further preventative measure. This upgrade is expected to shut down service starting at 2:00 a.m. Lear said, “We are upgrading the system at 2:00 a.m. to try and prevent any inconvenience. We expect that traffic will be at a minimum during this time since most people will be in bed.” Executive Director of ITS, John Casey, responded that ITS had sent an e-mail to many students concerning this upgrade of the new software. Casey reiterated that, “we have had some transient problems with phones that the new version of the software should clear up. So we want to get it installed as soon as we can. We scheduled the upgrade in the wee hours of the morning so that any downtime will inconvenience as few people as possible.” 

As for the frequent interruptions in Rich Dorm, Lear denies that telecommunications has been notified of any major problems. She adds that Richardson and Ryburn dorms have had major problems in the past, but new fiber-optic cable was added to solve the problems. She acknowledges that, “there have been single students that have had problems with their phones,” but she says that telecommunications has not been made aware of any problems of great magnitude. Lear advises any student with telephone problems to call Telecommunications at extension 2500 immediately. The student in Richardson Hall is unaware of anyone calling about these problems, but the details on both sides are still unknown. When asked how they felt Telecommunications was handling the situation, the student responded that, “I don’t think it was their fault, it just seems to be a problem with Richardson Hall itself. However, it does seem to be the same problem over and over again, and we have received no explanation.”

11/5/00
Damage to property
Officer responded to the basement of Richardson Hall to investigate a property damage complaint. Witnesses stated former residents of the hall did the damage during a hall reunion. 13 pieces of ceiling tile and a VCR were damaged. An investigation is pending.

Disturbance
Officer went to investigate loud music coming from the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity house at 4:05 a.m. Upon arrival, 2 occupants were identified. One was a student and the other was a visitor. They were asked to either turn off the music or lower the volume. The occupants complied.

Sick
EMS responded to Watts Hall to assist with an intoxicated student. The decision was made not to transport the student to the hospital.

11/4/00
Breaking & entering
Unknown person(s) forced entry into a vehicle that was parked in the Baker parking lot and removed without the owner’s consent several items from the vehicle. Entry was gained by breaking windows. A leather fanny pack, tools, and cash were stolen from the vehicle.

Breaking & entering — larceny
Unknown person(s) forced entry into a vehicle that was parked in the Baker parking lot and removed without the owner’s consent several items from the vehicle. Entry was gained by breaking the passenger side window. A wallet that contained several credit cards, personal identification, and cash were removed from the vehicle.

11/2/00
Officers received a noise complaint from a Richardson Hall resident indicating that there was a large group disturbing the peace on the walkway between Vail Commons and the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity house. Upon arrival, the officers observed several students standing around a case of beer and consuming beer. The group quickly dispersed once they noticed the officers. The case of beer was confiscated.

11/1/00
Disturbance
Officer responded to a loud music complaint in the laundry parking lot. Upon arrival, the officer observed a group of students sitting in a vehicle playing loud music and talking. A residence life area coordinator arrived at approximately the same time as the officer. The students were identified and asked to leave the area.

Disturbance
The town of Davidson Police Department requested our assistance to disperse a party on Armour Street in Davidson. The officers advised that they received 3 calls regarding the large crowd and noise coming from the party. The crowd was dispersed.

Disturbance
Officer responded to Hart to investigate a loud music complaint. Upon arrival, the officer located the source of the loud music and asked the occupant to either lower the volume or turn off the music. The occupant complied.

Compiled by Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of Public Safety/Campus Security.