gdatt DA DSONIAN International Pamsos DEMOSTHENOUS

When I first came to Davidson, I was very impressed by the fact that almost everybody knew where my country
- the little island of Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea — is located. It was a pleasant change after
having spent three years of high school in Florida where most people would ask, “Where is that place?” every time
I mentioned my homeland.

Unfortunately, my country is in turmoil and I would like to take the time now to express my views on
the problem that has been tormenting my nation and its effect on the relationship between Greece and Turkey. Over the
last two weeks, the UN Secretary General, Kofi Annan, and the U.S. State Department have taken major initiatives to try
and find a solution to the Cyprus issue. This is an issue that has destabilized the relationship between Greece and
Turkey for more than twenty-five years, in one of the most sensitive areas of the world.

In 1974, Turkey attacked Cyprus, invading almost forty percent of the island and ethnically cleansing over 200,000 Greek Cypriots. The
political problems that existed at the time in Cyprus resulted in a coup d’état which Turkey used to its benefit.
Under the pretext of protecting the Turkish Cypriot minority of eighteen percent at the time, Turkey besieged almost half the
island and installed more than 40,000 military personnel. Those soldiers still remain on the island.

The besieged part of the island was also the wealthiest, containing seventy percent of the natural resources and eighty percent
of the tourist attractions. Unfortunately, both of my parents happened to be refugees from the occupied part of Cyprus. They
lost everything they had including houses, property, and money. They often talk about their lives in the village, their houses,
and the places that they grew up in. Those very places are now less than a half-hour drive from my
present house. Yet, they are not permitted to go there anymore.

I have often asked my mother what her life with the Turkish Cypriots was like, and how the fact that
they spoke a different language and worshiped a different God influenced their relationships with each other. She recalled that all
Turkish Cypriots also spoke Greek and almost all Cypriots spoke Turkish, just like her father and her uncles did. She
used to tell me of her many Turkish friends and how heritage was not a determining factor in her friendships.
Apparently, this was not the case on the political front as well.

Cyprus’ geographic position is an important factor. It is in the middle of Africa, Europe, and Asia, approximately 100 miles
from the Suez Canal and very near the oil-rich countries of the Middle East. In 1983, Turkey formed a government
on the occupied part of Cyprus and instated President Rauf Denktash, who is still in power. Today, Cyprus is divided
into the Republic of Cyprus - which is unanimously recognized by the international community - and the occupied territory, named
“The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.” Only Turkey recognizes this territory as Turkish. And that is the crux of the
issue.

The official Greek government of Cyprus wants Turkish troops to leave the occupied territory. They want to unite Cyprus under
one government and are prepared to grant the Turkish minority proportional representation in the government. On the other hand, Turkey
wants to form a conglomeration on the island, while keeping the occupied part. Needless to say, since 1974, there has
been major tension on the island between Turkish and Cypriot troops, with the threat of war imminent. The war would,
of course, extend into the Greek islands and into mainland Turkey and Greece as well. This military unrest is the
reason that Turkey, Cyprus, and Greece all have mandatory military service for males.

How would the rest of the world perceive a war between two NATO countries? This is certainly an event that
all of the West, especially the United States, would like to avoid. Such an eruption in the islands to the
west of Turkey would give Iraq and Syria a major advantage against Turkey in the east. And considering the present-day
relationships, such an opportunity would not be wasted! The rest of NATO would most probably be divided on the matter.
The United States sees Turkey as its biggest and most useful ally in the region. It acts as a shield.to
Russian expansion and is strategically located on two counts: its crucial position near the “black gold” of the Middle East,
and its natural borders with Iraq, one of the United States’ worst enemies. From an economic perspective, the United States
views Turkey and its 64 million inhabitants as one of the ten biggest emerging markets in the world. Furthermore, Turkey
plans to spend $130 billion on its military over the next 30 years, an investment which would be very profitable
to the United States. In light of these factors, it would be abstruse for the United States to claim injustices
to humanity against Turkey, as it did in the cases of Kuwait and Kosovo, where invasions of smaller countries and
atrocities against people had occurred.

Cyprus is not much different. Cyprus has been seeking entrance into the European Economic Union (EU) for quite a while
now. In 2001, Cyprus will finally gain admittance to the Union along with Estonia and Slovenia. Turkey’s attempts to join
the EU have repeatedly failed in the past. This is because of its own human rights violations against the Kurds
in Eastern Turkey, its occupation of Cyprus, and also because it leads the world in imprisoned journalists—well ahead of China
and Syria. Another factor is that Greece, a current member of the EU, has repeatedly vetoed every attempt that Turkey
has made to join the Union. This situation changed in early January when Greece removed the veto in response to
tremendous pressure and promises from the United States. Thus, it gave Turkey the green light to begin preparing for initiation
into the EU. However, this is unlikely to occur until 2004 or perhaps even later, depending on how the Turkish
economy performs in comparison to the rest of the EU member-states.

One of the reasons that Greece lifted its veto on Turkey was a promise from the United States to begin
an initiative for a solution to the Cyprus problem. Another promised initiative was the termination of Turkey’s offensive policy to
Greece that has been in place ever since rich deposits of petroleum were found in the Aegean Sea. Over the
last two weeks, the presidents of both Cyprus and the “Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus” have been meeting under the
supervision of UN and United States executives in Geneva. Unfortunately, no progress has been made. Turkish officials are not willing
to retreat from their position, even after Greece removed the veto. A good insight into Turkish thinking can be gleaned
from Turkish president Bulent Ecevit’s comments when he was asked if he would subside the Cyprus problem now that Greece
has removed the veto. He answered, “The Cyprus problem is solved. There is nothing to resolve.”

Twenty-five years later, unrest in Cyprus still festers. Nicosia is the only capital of the world that is still divided
with Cypriot soldiers on one side and Turkish soldiers on the other. The arms race between Turkey on one side
and Cyprus and Greece on the other continues. Caught in between are hundreds of thousands of people who remain refugees
in their own country. Hundreds of mothers say goodbye to their sons, sending them to guard the border not knowing
what will erupt at any time. New negotiation dates have been set for this March. Will they be fruitful? We
all hope so. Someone needs to uphold the promises. The tension has been rising steadily for quite a while. Is
Cyprus a ticking time bomb? Hopefully not. Will the only solution to the problem be war? I hope not.

Pambos Demosthenous is a freshman, Genetics major from Cyprus.

CORPS OFFICERS’ TRAINING ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a freshman or
sophomore, you can still catch up to your classmates by attending Army ROTC Camp Challenge, a paid six-week summer course
in leadership training. By the time you have graduated from college, you'll have the credentials of an Army officer. You'll
also have the self-confidence and discipline it takes to succeed in college and beyond.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

& FC~COMMUNICATIONS SERVING NORTH MECK & SOUTH IREDELL OFFERING COMPLETE COMPUTER SOLUTIONS COMPUTER SALES, SERVICE, SUPPLIES, TRAINING, INTERNET SERVICES, DIGITAL
CAMERAS, SATELLITE TV SYSTEMS, HOME/SMALL OFFICE NETWORKING WE COME TO YOU! FREE IN-HOME/OFFICE CONSULTATIONS, FREE DELIVERY, FREE SYSTEM SETUP ON
ALL SYSTEMS! GUARANTEED LOW PRICES! CALL US AT (704) 662-6650 OR VISIT OUR WEB PORTAL AT: WWW.HANDTECH.COM/FCCOM EMAIL: FCCOM@HANDTECH.COM SINCE
1997
