Koury AsHOOoH ‘03 Columnist

A telltale sign that a candidate is losing an election is when policy reversals, personal attacks, embellishments, and ersatz offers
of appeasement manifest themselves. Yet in the case of Al Gore, these have been occurring throughout his presidential campaign, and
indeed, his career. So why are these hallmarks of Gore’s style now signaling his electoral demise in two weeks? The
answer to this question is that Al Gore finally is realizing that his arrogance, pomposity, and bad policy are lining
up against him. Al Gore has been forced to face his electoral mortality. The Gore campaign had better draw up
and implement a new plan soon if the vice president has any hope of winning on November 7th. The campaign
is close, but George W. Bush is consistently ahead in the polls. (Though poll trends are more important than individual
daily polls, it tickles this author’s fancy to note that the October 18-20 CNN/USAToday/Gallup Poll finds Bush with an 11-point
lead over Gore, 51-40.) The momentum clearly is in Bush’s favor, leaving Bush free to discuss his own issues and
agenda and leaving Gore in the position of having to counter Bush’s proposals.

He said at a recent campaign stop that although Gore leads the party of Franklin Roosevelt, the only thing Gore
has to offer is “fear, itself.” This couldn’t be more true. Since the Democratic National Convention, Gore has been offering
messages of class warfare, populism, race baiting, and scare tactics. In his convention speech and on the stump, Gore has
attempted to spark resentment of the upper class by lower- and middle-class Americans by vilifying the successful, especially Gore’s favorite
one percent. By turning the have-nots against the haves, Gore is trying to stir up enough hate for the rich
in the hopes that it translates into votes for him.

Any modus operandi that depends on stirring up hate should be considered suspect. Bush believes that no one should feel
guilty or be vilified for finding success. He is offering open arms to all people in all walks of society.
In Gore’s behavior, the inherent hypocrisy of the Democratic Party is seen. Gore does not want to help the have-nots,
he only wants to keep them in his bag as a talking point. If America suddenly became a place wholly
constituted by haves, Gore would have no one to appeal to and no one in whom to stir up class
warfare. Gore and the Democrats depend on the have-nots for their own political survival, and that is why they will
never institute policies truly intended to elevate everyone.

Gore’s populist battle cry also has a hollow ring to it. The catchphrase for populism is when Gore claims to
be for the people and not the powerful. But what he doesn’t want you to know is that Gore is
trying to be something that he is not. Again, this is an important distinction between the vice president and the
governor. While Bush presents himself as who he is, Gore begs us to believe that he is his own man.
Any candidate having to assure the voters that he is who he says he is should immediately signal warning flags.
Gore is everything that his populist rallying cry is not. He panders to those hated special interests. He claims to
take a hard line against Hollywood smut, but then he accepts the endorsement of the porn industry and wines and
dines with Hollywood’s elitist of the elite. He rails against Big Oil, Big Government, Big This, Big That, but he
owns more than $500,000 worth of stock in Occidental Petroleum and he believes that the solutions to all of America’s
problems should come from new government programs and entitlements.

Bush believes that the United States should become as close to energy self-sufficiency as possible, and he wants to tap
oil and natural gas reserves in Alaska in an environmentally sound way, while Gore would rather drive energy prices up
to encourage a radical effort at prying Americans from their cars and way of life. (In his radical manifesto, Earth
in the Balance, Gore advocates an end to the internal combustion engine and an increase in fuel costs to help
achieve this end.) Gore’s policy proposals are out of touch with the majority of Americans.

Gore’s race-baiting tactics, his practice of intimidating minorities with fantasies of a return to Jim Crow, an end to affirmative
action, and rampant racial profiling drives a wedge in the middle of American society. The Democrats claim that they are
color-blind, but Republicans are not usually the ones who discuss certain priorities for various racial and ethnic groups. The only
people in the United States who regularly use racial profiling are the Democrats, and this is evident in every speech,
advertisement, and meeting that highlights the physical difference of any particular racial group.

All of the three previous methods employed by Gore comprise the one underlying effort of Gore’s campaign: to scare people
into voting for him. Gore scares middle-class people by saying that Bush will ignore their concerns. Yet Bush’s tax plan
generally is better for middle-class citizens. Gore scares minorities by saying that Bush will end affirmative action. But Bush wants
to help minorities by empowering them so that they do not have to depend on government-mandated racial preferences. Gore scares
seniors by claiming that Bush will ignore their prescription drug needs. But Bush’s prescription drug plan covers all seniors without
blossoming the federal government. While Gore is scaring people and attacking his opponent, Bush is spreading his message of compromise,
reform, inclusiveness, and bipartisanship. Bush believes that all Americans deserve a tax break, while Gore wants to pick and choose
whom he feels deserves tax mercy from him. How arrogant of him to say who are the right people and
who are not. Any modus operandi that depends on stirring up hate should be considered suspect.cans, and that is why
the momentum of this campaign has shifted in Bush’s direction. Perhaps Bush’s biggest draw is his record of inclusiveness and
bipartisanship as governor of Texas. This week, 29 Republican governors are traversing America in support of Bush, and with each
group of governors, a Democrat from Texas will be traveling to highlight Bush’s record of compromise and cooperation. One Texas
State Representative, Democrat Henry Cuellar, says of Bush, “When I have called on him for support, he has answered my
calls.” This sentiment echoes loud and clear around Texas; numerous other prominent Democrats, including other state legislators and senators and
the mayor of El Paso, have publicly endorsed Bush. Bush is running on his record of bipartisan legislative success, and
he has the support to back it up. On the contrary, Gore is just running far away from any positive
message.

Al Gore is clearly running a campaign that depends on negative tactics. Luckily for Americans, it does not seem to
be resonating with a great number of voters, as his mechanical, domineering style seems objectionable to many. George W. Bush
definitely does not have this race won yet, and it is likely that it won’t be won until independent voters
pull the lever in the voting booth on November 7th. But Gore and Bush are in the business of courting
voters, and as the race stands now, Gore’s themes of attack, smear, and fear are failing against Bush’s themes of
inclusion, bipartisanship, and trust.

Weapons of slightly-less-than-mass destruction?

A few months ago, one million women marched in Washington, DC, for a cause in which they believed. In the
Connecticut Post, people wrote angry editorials, asking why these women did not march for a worthy cause, such as ending
world hunger. However, what these women stood for is one of the most important issues in the upcoming election: Gun
control.

Now, in my perfect world, I think everybody should own all the firearms they want. Private citizens would walk around
with bazookas and rocket launchers. However, I would be the only one with ammunition because, frankly, I don’t think the
majority of people could handle more than a piece of string (and as for Charlton Heston, I wouldn’t even trust
him with string). Unfortunately, though, I do not control the world. The Second Amendment gives private citizens the right to
keep and bear arms. This troublesome phrase was written back in 1791 in order to make the formation of militias
much easier both to prevent invasion from foreign countries, and to overthrow the American government if it became tyrannical (or
the politicians became too boring, whichever came first).

Maybe I am slightly paranoid, but I personally feel a tad unsafe under a government that tells me I may
need to protect myself from it. Additionally, I see no military threat from Canada or Mexico, even if they were
to combine with Cuba to form the UDA (Union for the Destruction of America). One of the classic arguments made
by pro-gun activists is the need to protect oneself from others. Apparently, these “law-abiding gun owners who are given a
bad name by the minority of crackpots who use guns in a violent manner, even though they are only supposed
to be used for hunting” have no faith in the human race, nor the protection offered by police. Additionally, they
seem to believe that taking a human life is wrong, but it is perfectly reasonable to mercilessly slaughter defenseless deer,
like Bambi.

The NRA stands by the claim that “Guns don’t kill people; people kill people,” which is partly right. It is
a trite example to say that pointing your finger at someone and saying bang will not kill him or her.
Guns aid people in killing each other. A gun by itself will not kill another person; there still needs to
be someone to pull a trigger. However, these weapons of slightly less than mass destruction still assist in the termination
of innocent lives. And, as events in places such as Columbine, among others, show, it is far too easy for
minors to obtain guns to murder other classmates. Banning guns may not be the answer (at this time, but soon),
but there needs to be a reinforcement of existing laws, and new laws need to be put in place, to
prevent minors and criminals from obtaining these weapons of slightly less than mass destruction.

Mandatory trigger locks, gun turn-ins by police, and background checks are a start, but mandatory gun safety classes and confiscation
of guns from a potentially dangerous person are also needed. This last regulation would prevent criminals on bond or those
with a restraining order or history of violent behavior from obtaining guns. And maybe regulation of ammunition can become a
reality, even if I am not the ruler of the world. Maybe Rosie was actually right about something.

Clinton Rickards ‘04

Context vs. Connotation

I wish to comment on Lauren Baird and Cameron Richardson’s response “Buchanan’s sexist language not amusing.” My rebuttal is not
an attempt to defend Scott Buchanan’s article; he does not need my help. Instead, I would like to address the
authors’ assertions on sexist language: “Ignorant slut.” “Beast.” “Comment-whore.” Ms. Baird and Ms. Richardson emphasize that these words are “destructive
(and unacceptable) in any context.” Thus, the authors suggest that context does not matter, in terms of “sexist language,” and
that we cannot change the connotation of these hopeless words by changing the context.

How can language be sexist, without an analysis of intent or an understanding of context? When words stand alone, their
implications, and even their meanings are unclear. Our reactions to isolated terms are based upon our experiences and upon conventional
connotations. I believe that Ms. Baird and Ms. Richardson had such a reaction, as if Buchanan’s article was nothing but
a list of three giant “sexist” words. Context has at least as much to do with the meaning of a
word as its connotation. What does Buchanan’s comment-whore have to do with “women and their bodies?” Ms. Baird and Ms.
Richardson are offended by the conventional connotation of part of this term; they do not see the broader implications, which
Buchanan creates. The authors concentrate on the language, but they ignore the current context and seem to make it a
general rule to do so. I find it ironic that Ms. Baird and Ms. Richardson illustrate discontentment with Buchanan’s “sexist
language,” but they make no mention of the article itself. Three terms are not the whole story.

I too believe that “language reflects and enforces cultural behaviors,” but language is not so fixed that it cannot be
influenced. Even “sexist language” can be rendered otherwise, with consideration to perspective, intent, circumstance, etc. Thus, finding fault with those
who actually destroy conventional connotations of such language is futile to the authors’ cause.

Laura McDonnell ‘01
