THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

Campus-wide election yields new senators, Honor Council members
By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Bobby Pittenger checked his voicemail every thirty minutes over a span of over four hours on Monday night. The sophomore from Charlotte, like so many others, was anxiously awaiting the results of campus-wide elections held over the course of this week.

“I'd been thinking about running for a long time,” Pittenger said. “I thought about it and I prayed about it for a long time. And then ten minutes before the deadline, I signed my name.”

When he finally heard that series of beeps before the steady dial tone indicating a waiting voicemail message, the news was just seconds away. And the news was good. With the support of 54.1% of all sophomores voting, Pittenger was the top vote-getter and was elected president of the Class of 2002.

“I really didn’t expect to win,” he said. “But it’s such an honor and I’m truly privileged.”

“I’m very pleased. He’s really dedicated, he’s hard-working, he’s honest,” said Joey Harris, who served as Class of 2002 President until February when he was elected vice-president of the Student Government Association. “He’s one of the few people that I know that really considers it a privilege to be elected and serve on SGA. He’s going to do a lot of good things.”

And Pittenger is just one of 15 Davidson students that will earn campus positions this week—nine on the SGA and six on the Honor Council.

Christopher Brantley was another big winner on Monday, securing the senior class president position for the Class of 2001. Brantley garnered support from 55.3% of all rising senior voters.

“Chris has a tremendous amount of positive energy and a profound love for this school,” said Mike Wipfler, who is a hall counselor with Brantley on 3rd Watts this year. “The combination of those two things is going to mean a great deal to the SGA.”

Aaron Patton and Mary Kathryn Ross were also elected as senators from the Class of 2001, while Alison Board and David Summers were elected to represent the Class of 2002.

“It’s always great to have fresh blood in the SGA,” said Dane Erickson, the body’s president. “We’ve been pleased with the performance of everyone we have right now, but new people always bring innovative ideas and a fresh perspective to the table.”

The race for Class of 2003 president and senators was decided in a run-off on Wednesday, after The Davidsonian went to press. Kevin Epps, Maurice Falls, Beth Gardner, Daniel Hanks, Gray Patterson, and Graham Watson (listed alphabetically) were the six finalists out of 11 original candidates.

Tuesday’s elections also yielded six new faces on the Honor Council. Rising juniors Grant Bleecher, Elizabeth Marie Melchionna, and Jeffrey Cone were elected along with rising sophomores Shannon Bishop, Hussein Nasreddin, and Benjamin Ferrell. A total of 44 candidates (27 rising sophomores and 17 rising juniors) ran for the six available slots.

“I’m definitely looking forward to (serving),” said Cone. “The position is going to be an awfully challenging one, but at the same time I’m sure it will be very rewarding.”

Bleecher and Cone each earned enough votes to earn seats as senators, but both of them opted to accept a seat on the Honor Council instead.

---

International

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

Chen Shui-bian: The leader of Taiwan’s Democratic Progressive Party was elected as president in the recently concluded elections. This result ended fifty-five years of Nationalist rule and alarmed China since Shui-bian’s party favors a formal declaration of independence from the mainland.

Bill Clinton: In a hyped, well-publicized, and highly anticipated visit, the President called on India and Pakistan to settle their dispute over Kashmir. However, this visit was overshadowed by the massacre of 35 Sikhs in the Indian part of Kashmir.

The European Union: Leaders of the Union met in Lisbon for a “Dot.Com Summit” to discuss how the EU might catch up with the United States in information technology.

Iran: The United States’ secretary of state, Madeleine Albright, acknowledged American errors in dealing with the Islamic country. She also announced the end of certain sanctions on Iran.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Uganda: More than four hundred members of a religious cult and their children died by fire in a church in Uganda. Authorities are unsure if it was mass suicide or mass murder.

Peace in the Middle East: President Clinton failed in three hours of talks to persuade the Syrian leader, Hafez al-Assad, to moderate his differences with Israel. The White House said afterward that it was “impossible” to predict when talks between Israel and Syria would resume.

Florida relatives of Elian Gonzalez: A Miami judge ruled that the federal government was right to seek to send the six-year-old boy back to his father in Cuba.

Indonesian politicians: One murder and several assaults were made on politicians in the troubled nation of Indonesia. The government blamed rogue military officers opposed to democracy.Honor Council, precluding them from holding any elected SGA office. “I really like the concept of upholding the ideas of the Honor Code and the College,” Bleecher said. Randy Skattum of the Elections Council reported that voter turnout this week was the best in recent history. Almost 45% of eligible voters turned out on Monday and over 40% returned for Tuesday’s run-offs. “Turnout was great,” said Erickson. “I think it says a lot about the quality of candidates that ran.” “I can’t wait to begin working with the new senators,” Harris said. “Each of them is going to bring a lot to the SGA.”

Ogden awarded Smith Scholarship
Press Release

“Scholarship and activism are interdependent entities,” believes Joslyn E. Ogden, the second recipient of the W. Smith Scholarship. This mature Davidson College senior, from Roswell, Ga., a political science and religion double-major, will put her words into action as she studies abroad next year. Awarded to only one exceptional senior at Davidson each year for “outstanding academic achievement, demonstrated leadership, and service to the community,” the Smith Scholarship was established by Tom Smith, a 1948 alumnus from Greenville, S.C. The Smith Scholarship is similar to the internationally-known Rhodes Scholarship, as it supports postgraduate study at a major university outside of the United States.

Ogden plans to pursue the study of theological ethics at either Oxford University in England, the University of Bristol in England, or the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. She still awaits word from these three universities. Dr. Lou Ortmayer, Political Science Professor and chair of the graduate scholarship and fellowship committee, has a very good feeling about Ogden’s admission chances. “She has a strong academic record, exceptional faculty recommendations, and support from the college,” he stated.

Academically, Ogden ranks in the top 10 percent of her class at Davidson, a requirement for the scholarship. She is also a leader among her peers. Though she does not boast her leadership abilities, they are evident from her involvement on and off campus and from how others describe her. Rob Spach, Davidson Chaplain, knows Ogden well through her involvement with weekly campus worship services and a Bible study focused on combining a critical academic approach with practical application. She also participated in a “reverse” mission trip to El Salvador led by Spach to help students grow spiritually from immersion in the cultural environment. Spach said, “When I’m working with Joslyn on anything and she takes responsibility, I have complete confidence that she’ll do it well, in a timely fashion, and with the big picture in mind.” He has been particularly impressed with her leadership in the campus worship services; she leads music with her guitar, helps organize the services, and serves as a speaker. He describes her as “intrepid.”

An Active Leader

Ogden serves and leads on campus in very thoughtful and determined ways. In addition to working with the chaplain’s office, she has been the student government chancellor, participated on the women’s issues committee, led Davidson Outdoors’ trips, served as a resident advisor, and chaired the service council and the Honor Council. As a service council co-chair at Davidson, Ogden initiated and planned a “summit on service,” bringing together community members, students, faculty, and staff to discuss volunteer opportunities and how to guide future service efforts. Of her leadership on the Honor Council, Ogden said, “This has been the most challenging experience of my Davidson career. There is no greater affirmation of my vocation to study religion with an emphasis in ethics as when I participate in an honor council trial.”

The Smith Scholarship tops an academic career studded with scholarships and awards. Ogden holds the William Holt Terry scholarship, a full scholarship for leadership and academics, the Foster G. McGaw Scholarship, which recognizes excellent academic credentials, demonstrated leadership qualities, and potential to make positive contributions to society; plus a Rotary Scholarship and the Roswell High School Foundation Scholarship. She has also been awarded the Agnes Sentelle Brown Award for character, scholarship, and leadership at Davidson, and she holds the top Girl Scout Gold Award. Ogden looks forward to furthering her education internationally. She has already spent a semester studying in Beijing, China.

See Ogden, page 6.

Photography show opens
By ALISON KALETT
Editor in Chief

Six months of travel and experiences came to life Wednesday in the Union Gallery. Junior Amber Worrell is currently displaying approximately twenty photographs she took while traveling throughout Europe from June to December. According to Worrell, the black and white and color prints are a “mixture of everything,” from an elderly Portuguese man sitting in the sun to a door front in Morocco to a landscape in Granada, Spain. Worrell, an Anthropology major from Nashville, Tenn., received a grant from the Dean Rusk Program which funded her summer travel in Spain as well as film cost. The photographs will be displayed in the Union Gallery from Wed., March 30 through Wed., April 5.