By Mike ANDERSON Staff Writer

As head coach Jen Halliday led 21 Wildcats aboard a US Airways Boeing 737 two weekends ago, their lift-off ushered in a whole new era for the Davidson field hockey program. The Wildcats' trek to St. Louis for their inaugural game as a member of the NorPac (Northern Pacific Field Hockey Conference) ended twenty-five years of islandic status as one of the three Division I field hockey squads without an affiliation.

The NorPac—an ill-titled seven-squad conference that actually includes teams ranging from the San Francisco Bay Area all the way across the Appalachians—offers a wide array of benefits to Davidson’s program: a chance to earn a bid to the NCAA tournament, post-season award recognitions such as all-conference designations, and a nationwide recruiting pool.

“It gives us an identity, a family, and a huge recruiting tool,” Halliday said. “Post-season play is the end-all be-all, but there are so many other benefits.”

Athletic Director Jim Murphy lauded the move, “The ability for the team—and the school—to affiliate with a nationwide collection of schools is something that’s very positive for our program.”

The Wildcats are expected to fare rather well against the improved competition—Davidson split its first pair of conference games, knocking off St. Louis but falling to Stanford. Last season, Davidson won three out of four games against schools in the NorPac, including a win over the highly-touted Cardinal.

“I think we’re going to be really competitive in the conference,” asserted senior co-captain Ashley Hart. “Stanford is one of the best teams in the conference, and we’ve matched up really well against them.”

Personnel

Davidson enters the fall season with a dynamic array of young talent to complement a rich stock of senior leadership. “It’s really incredible,” Hart remarked. “Every position is filled with outstanding athletes. We definitely lost some great players [to graduation], but we have some people who can step up and do the job.”

Hart and Jennie Gold, both mid-fielders, will captain the squad that includes a powerful class of five seniors rounded out by Lea Jaeger, Karen Lamoreaux, and Lauren Hancock. “The senior class is great,” said Hart. “Each senior is going to be contributing so much this year.”

Another key to this year’s success lies with the sophomores, a class that will yield four starters including a talented tandem of fast-footed forwards in Alex Rogers and Agnes Bateman. Rogers and Bateman tallied six goals apiece last season, third-most on the team. Another sophomore, Jessica Barton, returns after starting in all 18 games last season. “[The sophomores] have really changed the dynamics of the team,” noted Hart. “They’ve added a lot of spunk.”

And Halliday picked up five freshmen this season; one of whom, Christina Auer, has already earned the starting nod at right back.

The Blizzard

Hands down, the cornerstone and heart of this squad is its young head coach, Jennifer Blizzard Halliday. A 1993 graduate of the University of North Carolina, Halliday brings an infectious tenacity and an inspiring record of on-the-field accomplishment to the program. During her four-year career, the Tarheels went 86-22-5, won three ACC championships, and played in four NCAA national championship games.

The daughter of a highly-decorated Marine general, Halliday exhibits fiery determination, profound and disciplined humility, and a tremendous work ethic. “Coach is full of energy,” commented Hancock. “It’s evident to all of us just how much she loves this program.”

And, according to her players, the “love” goes far beyond an institutional commitment. Halliday, they say, invests a deep personal commitment into each and every athlete that she welcomes to Davidson. “She works us hard,” Hancock admitted. “But we can tell that it’s because she cares about us so much personally. And she’s really good about respecting our academics and our off-the-field lives.”

Hart added, “She’s really determined to take us to the next level.” And the NorPac move is a momentous step in...That direction. “I’ve worked hard on the conference issue from day one,” professed Halliday, who pledged to pursue a conference affiliation during her job interview four years ago. Just four years later, Halliday has revived what was a floundering program, linked Davidson to a conference with such national academic and athletic powerhouses as Stanford University, and all in all put Davidson field hockey on the national map. But as Davidson enters a brave new world of conference action and high-powered field hockey, they find themselves at just the beginning of the long road toward success.

Hoyas slip by ‘Cats
By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Opportunity knocked—to the tune of 31 shots on goal—on Saturday, but the Wildcats were unable to answer as Georgetown escaped with a 2-1 victory.

“We had the opportunities,” acknowledged senior co-captain Jennie Gold. “But we’re just missing that final push to get the ball in.”

Davidson controlled play for most of the day—outshooting the Hoyas 19-2 in the second half and 31-13 overall—but their lone goal came off a Gold penalty stroke with 8:28 to go in the game. Meanwhile, Caitlin McLean and Leeanne Rizzo punched in goals for the Hoyas. But the big story for Georgetown on Saturday was the play of sophomore goalkeeper Jessica Herring. Herring faced 31 shots on goal, including 11 corners and three penalty strokes, and came away with 13 saves and the victory.

“She was as aggressive a goalie as I’ve ever seen,” lauded Davidson head coach Jen Halliday. “She was phenomenal.”

Georgetown coach Laurie Carroll wasn’t surprised. “That’s what we expect from (Herring). Those are the kind of performances that Jess has all the time.”

The Wildcats had some strong performances of their own—Coach Halliday praised sophomore Allison Matlack for a breakout performance. With the loss, Davidson suffered its fourth defeat in a row, skidding to a 1-4 start in their foundational season as a NorPac affiliate. But, according to Coach Halliday, all is far from lost.

“We’ve [dominated the game but been outscored] three times so far,” said Halliday, whose squad holds a 1-1 record in NorPac play so far. “We just need to start putting it in the goal.”

Georgetown’s head coach spoke highly of the Wildcat squad. “The word is that Davidson is fast and they’re feisty and they’re skilled and they’re well-coached,” Carroll said. “People are excited to play Davidson because they know they’re going to compete every time they step on the field.”

Mike Anderson

Amanda Strickland (#22) leads the way down the field. The ‘Cats team up on the Georgetown goalie.

Mike Anderson

Volleyball Struggles at Big Orange Bash
Press RELEASE

The South Florida Bulls improved to 5-0 overall with a 15-2, 15-2, 15-11 win over Davidson Saturday afternoon in the second round of the Big Orange Bash. Michelle Collier led South Florida with 19 kills and ten digs while Melanie Mueller tallied a match-high 38 assists with 11 digs. Davidson’s Mara Mordini led the Wildcats with six kills and seven digs. Erin Schwartz tallied 23 assists while Kaitlyn Martin had a team-high ten digs.

In Davidson’s second game of the day, the Akron Zips improved to 4-3 on the season as they picked up a 3-1 (15-10, 15-9, 13-15, 17-15) win over the Wildcats (3-5). Katie Kuzior led the Zips with 24 kills and 14 digs. Julie McDivitt tallied 58 assists with 13 kills while Ashlie Case added 16 kills with 14 digs. Mara Mordini tallied 24 kills with 25 digs to lead the Wildcats. Brooke Bentley added 25 digs with eight kills and Erica Schwartz recorded 51 assists.

Congrats to Ryan Hutto and Ryan Crawford, I-AA Independent Players of the Week... Darryl Strawberry was arrested again, once again displaying the decision-making skills of a crackhead... Oh wait, he is one... Never let Lee Corso borrow your car... Dumbest Olympic Sports: trampoline, rhythmic gymnastics, judo, table tennis... Now imagine those sports on tape delay... Pro wrestling is fake... South Carolina football has lost 4 goalposts in two weeks.