The Davidsonian

Jennifer Lopez stars in high-tech science fiction thriller

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

"The Cell" does something that few movies can—it combines stunning visual style with an equally good story. The movie stars
Jennifer Lopez as Catherine Deane, a young, inexperienced psychotherapist with a gift for communication. She has been chosen to take
part in a new process of waking comatose patients. She enters their minds, visiting their subconscious at their mercy and
hoping to convince them to leave the coma. The opening scene, one of incredible simplicity and beauty, shows one such
encounter.

When serial killer Carl Stargher (Vincent D'Onofrio) falls into a coma, the FBI goes to Catherine for help: the FBI
wants her to enter Stargher’s mind to discover the location of his latest victim, who has only a few hours
before Stargher’s death machine ends her life. Catherine and her colleagues (Marianne Jean-Baptiste of "Secrets and Lies" and Dylan Baker
of "Happiness") agree, somewhat reluctantly, to help the FBI, whose efforts are headed by Peter Novack (Vince Vaughn).

When Catherine enters Stargher’s mind, she and the audience are bombarded with images both beautiful and horrifying. These scenes in
the killer’s mind are some of the most visually stunning in all of cinema. This, of course, is only the
plot of the movie. Most movies are just about their plots, about how the characters get from Point A to
Point B in the story. But Mark Protosevich’s script is not concerned with just the story. It has more goals,
and it succeeds.

Stunning visual effects make 'The Cell' a worth

The most remarkable thing about "The Cell" is that we actually care about what happens to these characters. So few
thrillers, even the ones considered to be great, are able to connect the audience emotionally to the characters. "The Silence
of the Lambs," for example, does not make us care about Hannibal Lecter. We value the madman simply because he
is entertaining. He is like a sideshow.

On the other hand, Vincent D'Onofrio’s Carl Stargher is more methodical than Lecter, more disturbed, and yet, somehow, we actually
care about what happens to him. The same goes for Lopez’s character. We want her to succeed, not because she
is the star of the movie, but because we get to know her character and realize that she has worked
hard and deserves success.

In addition to making us care about its characters, "The Cell" works very well on many levels. It’s a crime-drama,
a science fiction movie, a race against time, a psychological odyssey, and a story about a doctor’s convergence at the
end and provide for a wonderfully tense, gruesome climax, filled with some of the film’s best images. These visuals have
resulted in some critics calling "The Cell" overly ambitious and unrestrained, and I can understand why. In a year filled
with gentle, unchallenging wide releases like "The Replacements," "Coyote Ugly," and "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle," it seems the
most complex and interesting mainstream film before "The Cell" was "Chicken Run."

Bombarded by images of anorexic girls dancing on bars and flying animated squirrels, some poor critics were shocked by the
provocative images of "The Cell." Indeed "The Cell" is provocative, shocking, vulgar, and at times unrestrained. But never do these
characteristics undermine the story; they only enhance the movie, making it one of the best I have seen in over
a year.

Everclear: Songs From An American Movie Vol.1: Learning How To Smile

By Tuomas Cullen
Staff Writer

Art Alexakis is Everclear. Those other two guys, Craig Montoya (bass) and Greg Eklund (drums), are great but without Alexakis
they have nothing.His lyrics, vocals, and guitar work define and unify the band’s music. On their latest record, *Songs From
An American Movie Vol. One: Learning How To Smile*, Alexakis shines with his extremely blunt lyrics and the occasional, well-placed
solos. Although they may not rock out as much as the Everclear of old, *Learning How To Smile* is definitely
worth a listen.

The record opens with a song that is worth skipping, so we’ll just pretend that the first song is “Here
We Go Again.” The song is heavily layered with all sorts of samples, keyboards, and assorted other funky sounds, but
it still holds true to typical Everclear music with its straightforward lyrics and churning guitars. The next few songs could
easily blend into this one in the sense that they really don’t advance the record; instead, they just increase the
overall funk level, which is not a bad thing.

Up next is “Learning How To Smile,” which tells of a person’s desire just to leave all the drivel of
the modern world behind and to have fun. Alexakis is a master of conveying such themes as this, which is
greatly appreciated in a society where everyone is caught up in their daily grind.

Track six, “The Honeymoon Song,” is worthless; do not listen to it. It goes nowhere and sounds like a pathetic
Beach Boys song. After that song, anything would be great, yet Alexakis follows it up with one of the best
songs of the record. “Now That It’s Over” puts to music a universal truth that I greatly appreciate—there is no
way that two people who break up will ever be friends, ever. Lie as they might to each other and
to themselves, it will never be the same. While the music may not be the best, the message is simply
too true to look past. Alexakis’ honesty is what makes Everclear so accessible and so successful.

After a few more songs that are not really great or terrible, “Unemployed Boyfriend” provides the flashback to the Everclear
of old that you have been waiting for all record. Granted, bands evolve, but nothing is more fun than just
listening to them rock out like they just got signed. This song tells of a guy being refreshingly honest when
he sees a woman he likes at the unemployment office and tells her that he has no doubt that they
will end up together. Once again, Alexakis’ honesty is nothing short of refreshing.

“Wonderful” is simply that, wonderful: Alexakis enters the mind of a kid experiencing divorce and illustrates it beautifully with the
help of some modest guitars and keyboards. Alexakis came from a broken family, so he obviously knows the issue, and
his honesty once again makes the song. The record should have stopped here, but Alexakis gets greedy and offers up
the lackluster “Annabella’s Song” to close it out.

Everclear will always have their place in popular music with a frontman like Alexakis. His brutal and often much-needed bluntness
is the mastermind behind their success and should secure them a couple more platinum releases. *Learning How To Smile* is
nothing more than a solid, honest record, and, for that, it should be greatly appreciated.

Art Alexakis (center) expresses thoughts with brutal honesty on Everclear’s latest album, *Learning How To Smile*.

---

**SPRINGBREAK 2001**

Hiring On-Campus Reps

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE!!!

America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Europe, Florida

Student Travel Services

www.gospringbreak.com

1-800-648-4849
