"Hard to tell,” said Katie Wilson ’03. Daniel agreed with Wilson, adding that “Pennsylvania and Florida are going to be
deciding factors in who is going to win.”

Dr. Russell Crandall, political science department, said, “A Bush victory will provide momentum on free trade expansion, especially vis-a-vis Chile.
The overriding motives driving US policy will continue to be drugs and immigration, two things that both Republicans and Democrats
basically agree on.” He also noted that many key policies will remain basically the same no matter who wins, and
that foreign policy in the western hemisphere did not seem to be a hot issue.

“It’s the next four years of policy that will affect us. It’s also a character issue,” said John Pitts ’04,
stressing the importance of youth involvement in the election. The large groups congregating in front of televisions across campus dispelled
the notion of youth apathy towards the election. “It’s wonderful to see so much passion coursing through the veins of
our freshman hall,” said Martha Hunt ’04, who lives on Belk Hall’s second floor. “I’d say that we’re unusually involved
for our age,” said Tom Bardwell.

The Sunshine State In Debate

Emotions ran high at every television set when the media recalled the Florida votes for Gore. “It was the network
showing their bias by calling [Florida] before it closed,” complained Katherine Miller ’01. Scott Buchanan ’01 agrees. “The network should
not have called before the polls closed.”

The controversy began when the major media outlets predicted a Gore victory in Florida early in the evening. CNN and
several other networks recalled their prediction when it became evident that substantial votes were not yet tallied. The Florida vote
remained very close between Gore and Bush into the early morning hours, with Bush holding a bare majority during the
evening.

The Failure of the Electoral College

The possibility that a candidate could win the popular vote but still lose under the Electoral College bothered some students
on campus. It is possible for a candidate to gain the majority of the popular vote and still lose the
election if he doesn’t garner the most electoral votes. This was the case in the 1960 presidential race between Nixon
and Kennedy.

“I am very concerned that the Electoral College may not reflect the popular vote,” said Sam Steinman ’01. “The possibility
of this inconsistency makes us lose trust in the government. We need to get rid of the Electoral College,” said
Pitts.

Dr. Mary Thornberry, chair of the political science department, explained that one problem with the Electoral College is that “it
exaggerates the winner.” However, Thornberry said, “I don’t think there will be a huge difference.”

By early Wednesday morning, the numbers showed that the electoral vote tallies closely reflected the popular vote—both numbers being nearly
divided, with a bare majority going to Bush. According to CNN, with 88% of the polls reporting, at 2:30 AM
Bush held 44,164,516 of the popular vote and Gore held 43,616,845 of the popular vote—a nearly evenly divided vote barely
siding towards Bush. These numbers coincided with the 271 electoral votes to Bush compared to Gore’s 249 electoral votes.

The Third Party Debate

Like the 1992 and the 1996 elections, the effect of the third-party candidates—Pat Buchanan of the Reform Party and Ralph
Nader of the Green Party—became an issue. According to Thornberry, “Buchanan is not a factor” in the 2000 election. As
for Nader, Thornberry added that Nader may swing the votes in specific states, such as Minnesota and Oregon. Most of
the votes that Nader gets will most affect Gore’s votes. Students also believe that the third-party effect is minimal. Katie
Wilson said that although Buchanan is persistent in getting his ideas out, he will not have “that big of an
impact.”

By early Wednesday morning, Nader only had three percent of the popular vote and Buchanan had less than one percent
of the popular vote. Neither candidate won any electoral college votes.

Reaction to the End

As expected, the students had mixed reactions to the final outcome of the election, obviously divided along party lines. Many
students who were at 21-Year-Old Night in the College Union Tuesday...Night stayed until the final results came in early Wednesday.
There were mixed emotions about the election outcome, some cheering Bush’s victory and others dismayed about Gore’s defeat. Sarah Jacob
‘02 was unhappy about the outcome of the election, fearing that the new president-elect George Bush would threaten “women’s rights
and abortion.” Another student commented that she was pleased with the outcome, believing that either candidate was qualified for the
job. Meredith Beattie ‘01 expressed the hope that the election will “raise interest in voting” among the American people, especially
those who were unhappy about the outcome of the election.

Everyone else is doing it. Write for The Davidsonian. Contact Aaron Houck at aahouck@davidson.edu.

EAC
The EAC will hold its first annual RECYCLING DAY on Wednesday, Nov 15th on Chambers lawn from 10 AM to
2 PM. The day’s events will help educate the student body about the new recycling program on campus. WALT-AM 1610
will DJ the event. EAC is also already working on Earth Day in April! To make this event an even
better success, EAC has been working to get bands and fun participants for the weekend before Earth Day also! For
information on Earth Day, contact Alison Moran (almoran) and Margaret Holt (maholt).

Sanctuary, CCM, & Amnesty
This Wed. from 8-11 PM, there will be a vigil in opposition to the execution scheduled for Thursday morning. It
will be held on Chambers Lawn. Co-sponsored by Sanctuary, Catholic Campus Ministry, and Amnesty International.

Project Life
Weekend Excursion is playing in the 900 Room Friday night starting at 10. The bar will be open and there
is a $2 cover. Proceeds from the concert will go to Project Life. The organization will also be selling t-shirts
all next week in the union. The big Project Life Bone Marrow Drive will be next Wednesday and Thursday, November
15th and 16th. Members of the community are encouraged to have their blood typed for the national bone marrow registry
at Davidson College’s annual “Project Life” bone marrow drive. Typing is free. The two-day event runs from 10 AM -
3 PM in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Call 894-6014 or 894-5386 for more information.

SFT
The week of November 6 to the 10th, SFT will be selling frisbees in front of Chambers Gallery. The frisbees
will help fund Steve Lehman’s visit to campus, a noted photographer of the Tibetan people. To purchase a frisbee, please
contact Ramya Parthsarathy (raparthasarathy).

Union Board
Professor Clifford Will will present this year’s Smith Lecture entitled “Was Einstein Right?” this Thursday, November 9th at 7:30 in
the Homeroom. The lecture is sponsored by the Union Board Speakers Committee, the Public Lectures Committee, and the Department of
Physics.

Dance Ensemble
The Dance Ensemble will have its fall concert on Friday, November 10 and Saturday, November 11 at 8:00 PM in
Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. The performance will include ballet, jazz, tap, and modern dance. Admission is
free.

CROP
The Crop Walk will take place Sunday, November 12th. Registration begins at 2:00 on the Davidson Village Green and the
walk begins at 2:30. Participants must obtain a sponsor sheet from the Union Information Desk or from Carrie Arthur (caarthur)
or Chris Cho (chcho) before the walk in order to collect donations. All proceeds will go to local charities aimed
at helping with hunger in the local community.

If your organization has any submissions for “Around Davidson,” please send them to Matt Garfield (magarfield) or to JT Tolentino
(jttolentino).

DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15
To apply for George L. Abernethy Endowment Funds. Abernethy Funds are available to students in the following three categories:
1. Independent student research.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3. Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined, independent role in the research.

FYI: Last year the Abernethy Endowment supported twelve projects with grants up to $4,000, with the average award totaling approximately
$2,000. Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 116). Completed application forms
are due back in this office before 4:00 PM on Wednesday, November 15. The announcement of the awards will occur
on or before January 15, 2001.
