The Davidsonian _ The (Other) Zogby Poll: Choosing sides (it’s what we do best)
By Joy Gerpy AND Matt Zogby
Staff Writers

In the beginning, there was Optimus Prime, and it was good, but now with great sadness, we embark on our final (Other) Zogby Poll. Throughout our illustrious career, we have held onto a political theme with our poll. This week, however, we decided to use the (Other) Zogby Poll as a litmus test to decide the worth of the Davidson community. Therefore, without further ado, we present you with the (Other) Zogby Poll’s TOTALLY RAD AND TUBULAR CHOOSING SIDES END-OF-THE-YEAR EXTRAVAGANZA!

Our first big category dealt with the world of music. We chose a few infamous rivalries which hold places close to our hearts. Our first choice was a difficult one: Michael Jackson or Prince? However, we are pleased to report that the King of Pop prevailed in this clash of light-skinned titans. Despite the fact that MJ hasn’t had a hit in the U.S. in years, he remains a god on the international scene and among Davidson’s elite.

Also popular in Europe and certainly just as much of a “Thriller,” the next choice, Backstreet Boys vs. NSYNC, came down to a single vote. After the first tally, your esteemed pollsters were disturbed by the fact that NSYNC was in the lead, that is, until we remembered that we had not yet voted. Being diehard A.J. McLean fans, we feel that BSB has it “goin’ on,” and as the fine (and by that, we mean good-looking) pop culture analysts we are, we’re proud to have tipped the scales in their favor.

Celine Dion vs. a rock is next, and it is important to realize that “a rock” is not “the Rock.” Unlike Celine Dion, however, the rock swears no allegiance to Canada. That being said, it comes as no surprise that the miscellaneous rock won against Celine Dion.

Red bike program expands
By Matt Garfield
News Editor

Getting around campus will become a little easier next semester, thanks to two civic-minded Davidson students and about 20 red bicycles. Robert McKeehan ’01 and Bobby Pittenger ‘02 thought providing bikes would be a good way to help students travel. The idea isn’t a new one; several two-wheelers are currently in racks across campus as part of the “Red Bike” program. But because most are rickety and in disrepair, students rarely utilize them.

That’s where McKeehan and Pittenger come in. Earlier this semester, they started a campaign to revive the project. On Tuesday night, that plan came to life when the SGA allotted $2,100 dollars for the purchase of the bicycles. College president Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley also agreed to contribute together more than $1,400. Pending approval of the Activities Tax Council, the bikes—complete with fresh red paint and kickstands—should be ready to roll shortly after students return for the second semester, but not before Pittenger and McKeehan mount a campus-wide ad campaign to build support for the idea.

“We want to make things more convenient for the student body,” said Pittenger. “This is a tangible thing to show that the SGA is helping students.” Added McKeehan: “The cool thing is that it should help everyone—faculty, staff, and students—not just one group.”

SGA President Dane Erickson said the bikes will provide more than just convenience. “Not only does it provide a service to the students, but it also brings the community together because it’s something we’re all a part of,” he said.I think it just goes to show that Davidsonians can only stomach so many painful romantic ballads and marriages to creepy old men. (Incidentally, one of Matt’s life goals is to destroy Celine Dion and cash in on the lucrative sale of commemorative plates which would undoubtedly ensue.) Alas, our hearts will go on, and so will we.

Now for the question on everyone’s mind, Playstation 2 or life itself? Life itself won in a landslide, but we feel that this might have to do with the fact that a lot of people have yet to play the super computer. Also keep in mind life itself cannot launch missiles, and if Playstation 2 were to launch a missile, it has the potential to destroy life itself, so behave.

Now we come to a very important part of our poll; it is the question that drives us all. UNC or Duke? It was a close race, but we are happy to report, in a very unbiased way, that UNC has come out ahead, and more importantly, Duke has lost. Go iron your head, Battier. Coincidentally, it turns out good has triumphed over evil.

Bobby Vagt has had mixed results from the Davidson community. It seems support for the Big Cat lies somewhere between God (the Supreme Being) and Josef “Uncle Joe” Stalin, which is probably where he should be.

Another Davidson-related question involves athletic fanaticism at basketball games. It pits the Davidson cheerleaders against the Pines. One would normally associate excited, loud, dedicated, glad-to-be-alive-and-at-the-game fans in red and black with cheerleaders, but the Davidson community says that it’s the town’s retirees that have the super spirit. You know what those cheerleaders need? The perfect cheer.

It is often said that college students are apathetic to the outside world. We have found that to be the case when it comes to choosing between saving the Outpost and saving the whales. The Outpost won hands-down. “In fact, I think we should have whale steak...at the Outpost,” said Sean O’Reilly ’04. It seems that the plight of the largest mammal on earth is not so large in comparison to the fate of Papa D and his faithful band of merry men.

There remains only one question to be answered, and it alone has decided the fate of the (Other) Zogby Poll. This week we asked the age-old question: Joy or Matt? Although by the numbers Joy won, Matt disputed these results on the basis that Joy did most of the polling. The question had seemed simple and funny at the time; we had no idea that its results would cause what many would call an “old-fashioned brawl.” Temperatures rose, chairs flew, cursing abounded. A Magic 8 ball was consulted, but we were too impatient to wait and “TRY AGAIN LATER,” so we consulted the Playstation 2 that said it didn’t want to get involved (so we unplugged the damn thing). Anyway, because of irreconcilable differences, the (Other) Zogby Poll is no more. It has nothing to do with the fact that we’re going abroad.

CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES

“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!” From now until December 14th you can pay for your Library fines and IOUs with cans of food which will be given to the needy in our area.

WHERE: Library Circulation Desk

HOW: One can of food will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines or IOUs (e.g., for five cans of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines).