By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Head coach John Filar brings an abundance of promising—though wholly unproven—talent to the floor this year as the women’s basketball program takes its first hesitant step into the post-Jen O’Brien era. Few things, if any, are certain. But one thing is for sure—it’s bound to be a wild ride.

“It’s going to take some time to gel,” Filar acknowledged. “There are going to be some nights on the court when we’ll amaze people. There are going to be some nights when it looks like we’re running around with our heads cut off.”

The opening night lineup will be starkly revamped from last year’s O’Brien-led squad—let alone the 1998-99 team that last reached the Southern Conference Championships. Junior sharpshooter Janna Magette is the lone returning starter, but the squad will return a core cast of supporting characters—players who spent most of the past few seasons developing in the shadows of names like O’Brien, Kamp, Montrella, and Brown, and are eager to step to the forefront. Joining them will be a remarkable influx of freshman talent—Filar brings six first-year players to the roster and expects many of them to make an immediate impact.

At a pre-season media gathering in Greenville, S.C., last week, Southern Conference coaches predicted Davidson to finish in a seventh-place tie with Wofford come season’s end. But Magette, for one, isn’t concerned.

“I love the idea that people expect us to be seventh in the conference. That means they’re not expecting much out of us, which will allow us to creep up on some people.”

That’s the game plan—Filar hopes to convert his team’s biggest weakness (lack of experience) into an unlikely strength (the ability to catch teams off-guard and unprepared).

The Captains.
Three upperclass captains will be relied upon to help stay the course during what is bound to be an up-and-down early-going—senior JoAnne Hassel and juniors Magette and Bethany Schott.

Hassel, a 5-8 guard from Jacksonville, Fla., came to the team as a non-scholarship recruit four years ago. Three years later, after exhibiting an intense work ethic and team-oriented commitment, Hassel will not only captain this squad—but looks to see a dramatic increase in her court time.

“JoAnne has played awfully strong in the pre-season already,” said Filar. “She’s in tremendous shape—and at top form on the defensive end. She’s probably the quickest player on the court for us.”

Magette, a junior guard, will be looked to as a constant on-court leader. The team’s only returning starter, Magette will draw intense attention from opposing defenses but will be relied upon to carry a large percentage of the scoring burden.

“Magette’s shoulders have to be so broad this year,” Filar said. “It’s such a mixed bag that she has to attend to. She has to be a leader on the court, she has to be a scorer, and most importantly, she has to find a way to involve everyone else. Janna’s going to have to make such smart decisions every game for us.”

Fellow captain Bethany Schott will have a markedly different role. As a would-be returning starter, Schott figured to play a considerable role in the squad’s success this season until going down with a torn ACL/MCL in pre-season pick-up.

“We’re going to miss ‘B’ tremendously,” said Filar. “It’s really a big, big loss to this squad.”

“It’s definitely going to be hard (to have to watch from the sidelines),” Schott said. “It’s going to be a major learning experience for me. But I’m just going to have to become a leader off-the-court and stay vocal and positive for the team.” Filar has no doubt that she will.“People have no idea how much Bethany Schott is going to contribute to this team this year—it will be completely behind the scenes.”

Keys to Success

No one expects Davidson to sweep through the Southern Conference this year. In fact, given what some people have deemed “a rebuilding season,” it can be tempting to look down the road a bit. The Wildcats have no such inclinations.

“Anytime you’re coaching at this level—especially with a young roster like we have—there is a two-year or a three-year plan,” said Filar. “But that’s not our primary goal. Our primary goal is to win this year—we’re not going to hide that at all.”

And there is potential to win this year—to win a lot. But the team will have to achieve greatly in some key areas.

Defense. “This team has the potential to be as strong defensively as any team we’ve had here,” Filar said. And they may well have to be. “We’re all concerned about where the points are going to come from, so we need to be extra stingy on defense,” the coach continued.

First-year guard Lindsay Shade agreed. “To be successful, we must be at our very best defensively every time we step onto the floor. Our offense will feed off our defense.”

The squad promises to be one of the quickest, most-athletic teams Davidson has seen in some while—and given the depth on this year’s team, forty minutes of intense, stifling defense may not be out of reach.

Consistency in the Post. The center position is still up for grabs as early-season action rolls around. And the loss of Schott opens up playing time at the four-spot as well. Four Wildcats—two seniors (Jess Heath and Kim Taylor) and two freshmen (Meghan Bryant and Courtney Laird)—will vie for time in the post.

“For a long time, there were Katy Kamp’s and Jess Montrella’s to reckon with. Now it’s Jess and Kim’s turn to step to the front,” said Filar. Heath and Taylor bring distinctly diverse talents to the floor. “Jess is finally starting to realize what a physical presence she can have on the court,” said Filar. “And Kim Taylor can run the court as well as any five player in the conference. They bring such different games to the floor. If we can depend on both of them on any given night, we’re going to be tough to stop.”

Stay Healthy. Luck has not been on the Wildcats’ side over the past couple of seasons—especially in the junior class. Literally one-half of the knees in the junior class have been operated on—both of Leah Uhernik’s, both of D’Erica Taylor’s, and now one of Bethany Schott’s. Health at the “three” will be a major issue again this year. Uhernik is coming off her third ACL surgery in four years and continues to play with pain. Meanwhile, Kelly Copland, another bright spot of potential this year, continues to battle a chronic lower back injury.

“It’s been really strange in practices due to all these injuries,” said Filar. “There are times when I want to grab five veteran players to demonstrate a drill or a play, and we don’t even have five healthy ones out there.”

Cohesiveness. The team is nothing if not inexperienced. With only one returning starter and six freshmen added to the mix, this year’s roster players averaged barely thirty percent of the court time of last year’s squad. So while there is a great deal of talent waiting to be realized—they will have to grow together. And they’ll have to do it without O’Brien, a three-year starter at the point with the nickname of “Elmer” for bringing cohesiveness to the floor.

Said Filar, “We have a lot of players who haven’t seen a lot of court time together. We’re going to have to get comfortable out there very quickly.”

But the ‘Cats are eager to prove they can do it. “Our team’s biggest strength is our unity,” said one. “I’ve never been around such a good group of girls. We’ll be able to pick each other up and prevent any lapses in play—this group is special.”