Hillary Clinton is supposed to be the smartest woman in the world. The title likely was concocted for innocent insertion
into the basic political jargon, just like the term “Third World.” Yet Third World can be explained satisfactorily, while Mrs.
Clinton being The Smartest Woman in the World cannot. According to Mr. Webster, Third World is simply a term for
the underdeveloped countries of the world. If only Mr. Webster could explain Mrs. Clinton so succinctly. Hillary Clinton indeed is
not the smartest woman in the world. In reality, she is a far cry from it. Mrs. Clinton is so
successful at what she does (what does she do?) because she enjoys the privilege of not having to explain herself
in full. She will never reveal her true self, because were she to, she would never see the limelight again.
She is afraid. But of what? She’s been the First Lady of the United States and of Arkansas. She has
a spirited campaign in New York for the U.S. Senate. The media love her, the unions drool over her, and
those who know no better take her as the savior sent from on High. What is this woman? The reasons
that Hillary Clinton is afraid became apparent in her debate with Rick Lazio on September 13. Hillary is afraid because
she has everything to hide. The reason that Rick Lazio shined the floor with Hillary Clinton that night was that
Hillary previously has never had to explain any of her actions. She has always had the benefit of friendly media
coverage. She has turned down interview offers from such straight-talking reporters as Tim Russert, who moderated the recent debate. Finally,
on the 13th, we saw what Hillary Clinton really does when prohibited from lying. She babbles (“Well, uh, well, hmm,
yeah, umm...”). She squirms (“Gee, Tim, that’s a very interesting question, and I’m glad you asked that because I want
to be as forthcoming as I can, but the truth is, it was a difficult time for me.”). She changes
the subject (“Did you know that I really don’t like Newt Gingrich?”). When pressed, Hillary Clinton is unable to explain
her actions. She is a failure. Mrs. Clinton has many reasons to be afraid. She can’t refute that she brought
public education in Arkansas from 48th to 50th—dead last—during the time she was in charge of its reform. She won’t
apologize for branding all who criticized her husband as being part of “a vast, right-wing conspiracy.” Even with those she
accused including Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman, Al Gore’s holy running mate, she refuses to swallow hard and apologize.

It’s a cat’s life -- Students in a stupor

I am tired. No, let me rephrase that. I am very tired. So tired, in fact, I am going to
take a nap. Bye. Don’t worry, I was just kidding. I would never abandon my loyal readers for the vagaries
of some base and primitive delight. Why am I so tired? I get my daily requirement of seven hours of
sleep, I take my vitamins, and today I even ate my proverbial Wheaties, literally. Yet, as seems to be more
and more the case, I cannot keep my eyes open. To make matters worse, this dilemma is not confined to
me alone. No, the plague has swept through the campus faster than the latest Bush/Cheney bumper sticker. Granted, my lethargic
state is compounded by the fact that I just got out of Dana 146, possibly both the greatest and worst
classroom in existence. Maybe I just used to get more sleep. Maybe I should just sleep more now. No! I
can’t sleep. I have work to do and meetings to go to and classes to attend and events to plan
and dinners to be at and if I don’t get everything done then I won’t get into graduate school and
then I won’t get a job and then, well, then all I will be able to do is sleep. I
have to work non-stop just to keep afloat! So, back to my problem: why am I so tired? Now, I
know what you are thinking. You are thinking that it is because I am doing all my work and going
to all my meetings and such that I am exhausted and have no time for sleep. Well, if you have
a better idea, I’d like to hear it! It has been recommended to me that I begin to take, oh
what is the word, ah yes, naps. Thank you. I know better. I blame those big comfy chairs and their
enveloping cushions, I’d have to be inhuman not to fall asleep! And that, my friends, is precisely the problem. I
am human. We are all human and as human beings we require mad amounts of sleep. The average person spends
one third of his or her life asleep, and that isn’t considering the countless hours spent daydreaming and “resting one’s
eyes.” I wasn’t always this tired. I can remember fondly the days back in my innocent youth when I would
be able to frolic in the autumn evenings and would then awake (much to the chagrin of my parents) with
the sun, ready to frolic once more. Now, as the siren that is my alarm clock rudely awakens me, I
have no desire to frolic. The spring in my step and the ear-to-ear grin with which I used to greet
every day has been replaced by the “crack” sound in my ankle and the scowl on my stubble-ridden face. Look
at cats. Back when cats were wild and free they used to get by with maybe 4 hours of sleep
a night. Then they were domesticated and because they no longer had to hunt, they began to pass the time
by taking brief little naps.rests, hence the name “cat nap.” Before anyone knew it, they were sleeping 20 hours a
day and addicted to catnip. So, I ask you, are you prepared to give up your soul for a few
more hours of sleep? - Tam.

Note: Andrew does not support nor deny any of the malicious rumors that have him taking regular naps. He stands
by the comments made in this article just as he stands by his commitment to be a kinder and gentler
columnist.
Andrew MacDonald ‘03

She has so much to fear. Confronted head-on, she cannot defend her policies or her personal actions. Hillary Clinton can
talk all she wants, because as long as she is not prohibited from lying, the mainstream media will say nothing
objectionable about her.

In his candidness and objectivity, Tim Russert exposed the true Hillary Clinton at her debate with Rick Lazio. The true
Hillary Clinton is combative, defensive, and crude. When forced to explain herself, she can’t. She has so much to fear.
Confronted head-on, she cannot defend her policies or her personal actions. Yet Hillary Clinton survives. It’s no surprise. She only
survives because she has only once been asked to explain her actions or her feelings in straight talk. And it’s
a good bet that with the likes of Bryant “What a F—ing Idiot” Gumbel and James “Rajun-Cajun” Carville controlling what
the public is allowed to hear, Mrs. Clinton will never have to explain her thoughts or actions again. Don’t be
so afraid, Hillary; your nasty brush with objectivity is in the past.
Khoury Ashooh ‘03

A framework for debate

Discussion is necessary, but at what cost? As a result of Chaplain Spach’s article in support of Christian homosexuals four
weeks ago, the editors of the Davidsonian have seen an unprecedented response from the campus community. Students, faculty, and other
concerned individuals have put forth their very best efforts to inform, to persuade, and to engage their ideological counterparts about
this issue.

It is no surprise that people hold very strong beliefs about the relationship between sexual identity and religion. These two
concepts are both deep in meaning and ever-present in our daily lives. Yet, why this sudden urgency? To be perfectly
honest, the speed of the received responses and the intensity of them caught us off guard. On the one hand,
the willingness of students to submit their ideas for public discourse is very encouraging. It shows a remarkable amount of
intellectual maturity and a strong sense of civic duty for our peers to push this debate forward themselves. If people
want to change their community, then they obviously care about that community.

Nevertheless, the character of the debate, at least the parts of it we are fortunate enough to read, has evolved
from the social, to the theological, and finally to the ideological. What was originally a question of greater inclusion is
in danger of becoming a criterion for exclusion. Though this progression makes sense within the scope of an argument, it
can have serious consequences when played out in a community as a whole.

It is our hope to offer some kind of perspective, a moderating voice in the midst of this debate. Moreover,
we would issue a caution to all members of this community to take care how they go about this debate.

First, by linking this issue to religion, the discussion deals with whether or not homosexuality is right or wrong. Since
religion offers people guidelines for what is and is not morally acceptable, debating homosexuality in this context is a question
of morals. Ultimately, however, the question of what is right and wrong is a value judgment. Regardless of what one’s
community says, each person is in the end responsible for that judgment. While we can hope to persuade other people
to change their beliefs, reason and argument only extend so far. The final decision lies with the individual.

Second, as stated before, sexual identity, however it is defined, is a deeply personal concept. It is one of the
core aspects of one’s identity as a whole and becomes a very significant expression of that character. However, this identity
has a powerful social function as well. Not only do we use it to help define ourselves, but we also
apply it to the world around us. Sexual identity is arguably the most basic, most intuitive principle for ordering the
society in which a person exists. All value judgments aside, people act differently towards men and women depending on their
own sexual behavior. Because sexual identity is such a critical concept, by debating it in public, we come dangerously close
to examining the worth of other individuals. We’re not debating favorably or unfavorably about football teams here, this is serious.
Simply stated, analyzing another person’s identity one way or another can potentially be very risky.

Third, although the specific theological underpinnings for one’s beliefs are significant within the sphere of a particular religion, they may
not reflect the larger issues at stake. The discussion of this issue thus far has concentrated on the doctrines of
Christianity. Though Chaplain Spach happens to be a Christian minister and was specifically addressing Christians, the debate itself is just
as significant for other communities of faith. By focusing on one religious group, we are ignoring the contributions of others.
Moreover, not everyone subscribes to a particular set of spiritual doctrines. People who do not participate in the religious life
of the community still have values. They have also been excluded from this debate.

Fourth, whichever view one holds, the purpose of the discussion is clearly to influence other people’s views. The best way
to accomplish this is to give clear, understandable arguments in support of one’s own beliefs. The attempt to make this
issue a line along which to divide the community does nothing to change the attitudes of others. Actively forming opposing
camps only exacerbates the split and makes constructive debate more difficult.

In conclusion, we hope that all those involved in the discussion of homosexuality will take great care to examine their
own beliefs and to consider how their statements will affect their community.
Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck, Editors-in-chief
