ERLE EET PRODI A EE TET ORIN FBC TED

Andy Rhodes ‘01 poses his questions for “Ask CNN.”

Matt Whited

Theft from Union alarms college community

By JESSICA MERING
Staff Writer

Davidson students feel comfortable leaving their possessions unattended and doors unlocked, but crime is not as unlikely as many would
like to believe.

Early in the morning on Sunday, Oct. 22, a portable safe and money inside was stolen from an office in
the Union, say campus police officials.

The Union was checked and deemed secure by campus police on the Friday before the theft. Student employees were on
duty all day Saturday, and when the Union closed at 1 a.m. Sunday morning, no one had reported any suspicious
activity.

Shortly after 10 p.m. Sunday, Aaron Houck ‘02 and Richard Vinson ‘02 discovered an open safe on the third floor
between the Davidsonian and Libertas offices.

Director of Campus Safety Sam McKelvey, another officer on duty, and Tim Stroud, Assistant Director for Operations of the Union,
arrived to investigate shortly afterwards.

McKelvey said the doors of the safe had been pried off with a screwdriver and a vice grip, which were
left at the crime scene. The combination lock of the safe was not used to gain access. An unreleased amount
of cash was missing from the safe, and several checks remained in it. The safe was used to store petty
cash for student organizations and Union functions.

The fact that only one door was forced open, as well as the fact that this occurred when no one
was scheduled to be in the building indicates that “this person is someone who is very familiar with procedures in
the Union and the layout of the offices,” speculated Stroud.

Kirk Willingham ’01, president of the Union Board, agrees, “Whoever did it had to know where the money is kept.”

The Union was locked Sunday morning but was accessible with a CatCard. It would have been possible, also, for an
individual to enter the building earlier, when it was open to the public.

Also, as Assistant Director of Campus Safety Marlon Lynch points out, it is easy for unauthorized individuals to “piggyback” and
enter the building with someone who does use a CatCard.

The Campus Police are now investigating the case.

“There’s a very strong possibility that we'll figure it out,” said Lynch. “We can’t say whether it’s a student or
a non-student. Right now, we’re increasing officer visibility and random patrols as well as advising the Union staff and students
on safety precautions and awareness.”

A new, improved safe is now in use as well.

Even if the case is solved, however, its repercussions will be felt. Said Willingham, “Just the fact that it happened
at Davidson, where we think everything is so safe, is scary.”

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALDPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A 20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE
EXAMS.

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR
DEAN & DE LUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS ~ VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

By CASEY SAS
Staff Writer

On the Union Patio last Monday, CNN had a video camera set up to record any question that a Davidson
student could conjure.

The students selected will not simply receive answers to their questions. They will hear their queries answered on national television
by an expert in that particular field.

As part of its “Ask CNN” feature, the network is visiting colleges across the nation in the search of insightful
questions. Each day during 2001, a one-minute response will be shown six times throughout the day answering the question.

Twenty students showed up to participate. The CNN representative, who graduated from Davidson in 1998, said many students are simply
shy around the camera. She said most of the questions would appear on the air. No questions were off-limits as
long as they could be answered with a reasonable explanation.

The topics could range from international affairs to astronomy. Some of the questions that students had were, “Why, after ten
years, have the Atlanta Braves only won one World Series?” and, “How are Social Security numbers developed?”

Students had to sign a release form allowing their piece to be aired, and the entire process was relatively painless.
Once on camera, the questioner was told to give his or her name, home state, and question.

CNN officials said they hope to get a wide variety of questions from a range of backgrounds that amply represent
the interests of American youth.

David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott

By REBECCA MOORE
Health Advisor

“Smoke Out” will make its annual appearance at Davidson College this year on November 16th. With all of the knowledge,
talk, and hype about the perils of tobacco smoking, marijuana smoking tends to fall by the wayside on this important
day. However, marijuana comes with many of the same dangers as tobacco.

Both substances put foreign materials into your lungs, such as tar, carbon monoxide, and cyanide. The active ingredient in marijuana,
THC, has not been shown to be carcinogenic like tobacco; however, the other substances in the smoke can still get
into your lungs. People who smoke filtered cigarettes still get cancer and lung problems.

The short-term effects of marijuana include problems with memory and learning, short attention span, distorted perception of time, sound, sight,
and touch, paranoia, hallucinations, anxiety, and panic attacks, as well as sore throat, dry mouth, and fatigue. Over a long
period of time, smoking marijuana can cause permanent memory loss, infertility, personality changes, a weakened immune system, and psychological dependence.

Marijuana, like tobacco, has a very negative impact on health.
