THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS _ THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000

Davidson names head volleyball coach

Press RELEASE Davidson S.I.D.

Davidson College announces the hiring of Tamara Darwin as the Head Coach of the 2000 women’s volleyball team. Darwin is a 1995 graduate of Duke University, where she was a member of the varsity volleyball team, which brought home four-straight ACC Championships, four-straight NCAA tournament appearances, and two Sweet Sixteen appearances. Duke finished 104-21 overall and 40-4 in league play during her four years.

Darwin inherits a Davidson program which is the defending Southern Conference champion and currently ranked 48th in the Division I NCAA Rating Percentage Index. Last season, Lisa Marston led the Wildcats to a record-setting season, posting a 31-4 overall record and 20-0 in the Southern Conference. The team broke school records for fewest losses, highest winning percentage (.886), most conference wins, and tied a school record for most wins.

“I am delighted to follow Lisa Marston,” Darwin said. “She is a good friend of mine and has built a strong foundation here at Davidson. My respect and familiarity with Davidson is an automatic strength for the program, as I look forward to representing Davidson.”

Darwin was a member of the ACC Academic Honor Roll as a Sociology major. Since graduation, she has served as the Assistant Coach at Guilford College in Greensboro, N.C., for a year. She accepted an assistant position at her alma mater, Duke University, for the following two years. In 1997, she took a break from the collegiate coaching scene and worked for NationsBank in Winter Haven, Florida. She was the Head Coach at Mercer College of Macon, Georgia, for two seasons before accepting the Davidson head position.

“Davidson’s reputation both academically and athletically attracted me. Being from North Carolina, with family close by, is also very encouraging, helping me to make this a very easy decision,” Darwin said.

Wildcat lacrosse thrashes Bobcats 22-11

By Derek Smith Davidson S.I.D.

ATHENS, OHIO—Davidson used eight goals from junior Lauren Kenchington to out-muscle Ohio, 22-11, in college women’s lacrosse action Sunday afternoon at Ohio’s Multiple-Purpose Field.

The teams traded goals early in the contest with Sarah Otto, Molly Cherington, and Loren Seaton scoring the first three Wildcat goals. But the Wildcats went on a 5-0 run, holding the Bobcats scoreless for more than 13 minutes. During that span, Kenchington scored two of her game-high eight goals and Seaton added two more to her total, bringing the score to 8-3. Otto scored her second goal of the half with four seconds left to send the Wildcats to the intermission with a 9-4 lead.

Davidson added four more goals to start the second half and extend their lead to nine, 13-4, with just over 26 minutes left in regulation. Ohio rallied with three goals of their own in a two-minute span, but Davidson’s defense forced 24 turnovers and limited Ohio to 19 shots in the game. The Wildcat offense attempted 45 shots and committed just 14 turnovers.

The eight-goal performance by Kenchington breaks the Davidson single-game goal mark of six held by Linda Rothemund and Beth Calder. Senior goalkeeper Lisa Benjamin recorded five saves on the afternoon while facing 19 Bobcat shots. Ohio’s Katie Brockhovick made 15 saves and was peppered by 45 shots from the Wildcats.

Just a day earlier, Beth Calder and Molly Cherington combined to score nine goals, but Davidson was unable to fend off the Ohio State Buckeyes, in a 13-10 loss at Jesse Owens Memorial Stadium. The Wildcats (4-6) return home for a brief respite before hitting the road again. Davidson heads to Nashville, Tennessee, for a game against Vanderbilt on April 13.

Women’s basketball signs five high school stars

By Derek Smith Davidson S.I.D.

Robyn Flewelling, a 5-10 forward from Okemos, Mich. (Okemos H.S.); Meghan Bryant, a 6-4 post player from Huntersville, N.C. (North Mecklenburg H.S.); Lindsay Shade, a 5-5 guard from Atlanta, Ga. (The Marist School); Ashley Hallsted, a 5-6 guard from San Mateo, Calif. (Sacred Heart Prep); and Courtney Laird, a 6-3 post player from Los Altos, Calif. (Sacred Heart Prep) will attend Davidson College to play women’s basketball and continue their education.

The announcement was made last Thursday by Davidson College women’s basketball head coach John Filar. “This class will make a huge impression on the Davidson College women’s basketball program,” said Coach Filar.“They are all extreme team players. We’re so excited to have a class that will contribute quality players to both the inside and outside game.”

“Robyn brings the versatility we love to see in players,” said Coach Filar. “She can fill three different spots for us. She has outstanding court vision and is an excellent passer in both the half-court and full-court games.” Flewelling is the daughter of Rob Flewelling and the step-daughter of Pam Flewelling. In addition to her basketball career, Robyn also played softball and soccer in high school.

“Meghan has her best years ahead of her,” said Coach Filar. “She has a fantastic upside and has a great ability to run the floor. She has great hands and is an aggressive rebounder.” Bryant was named MVP of the MEGA 7 conference for volleyball this fall. She is the daughter of Kenneth and Pamela Bryant.

“Lindsay loves the transition game and will fit into our style of play well,” said Coach Filar. “She is a very unselfish player with good court vision and passing skills.” Lindsay is the daughter of Leslie and Debbie Shade.

“Ashley will be looked upon to step into some big shoes,” said Coach Filar. “She comes from a strong high school program and is one of the most fundamentally sound players we will have next season.” Hallsted is the daughter of Scott and Ellen Hallsted. Ashley was a member of the 1999 California State championship team at Sacred Heart Prep.

“We’re very excited to have two players from the same school,” said Coach Filar. “Courtney and Ashley will have great chemistry with each other on the floor. Courtney is a true Division I post player with a very physical game who rebounds extremely well.” Laird is the daughter of Angus and Courtney S. Laird. She was named second team All-Girls Private School League as a junior.

Davidson finished the season with a 10-17 record and a 7-9 mark in Southern Conference play.

“In terms of the game of volleyball, my technical and strategic love of the game should bring continued success to the program. Most importantly, I look forward to building strong relationships with the talented women that will come through the program,” she said. During the past six years, Darwin has assisted in summer camps up and down the east coast, including ones at Davidson, Duke University, University of North Florida, and Florida Satellite Camps. She is a member of the American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) and the Aerobics and Fitness Association of America (AAFA). In 1996, she married David Darwin (Duke ’96), a four-year member of the Blue Devils’ baseball team. He now plays in the Detroit Tigers organization, pitching for the Toledo Mudhens.

DUFF preps for nationals
By ANDREW RHODES
Frisbee Correspondent

Making final preparations for the upcoming national tournament, DUFF (Davidson Ultimate Frisbee Folk) fielded two squads at home against Warren Wilson and Wake Forest.

DUFF dominated Warren Wilson with a solid zone defense and won 11-4. Against Wake Forest, DUFF was out to avenge an early season controversial 11-10 overtime loss. This time, the Demon Deacons never recovered after DUFF took an early lead, and DUFF rolled to an 11-3 victory. DUFF’s B-Squad, “The People’s Red Army,” played two solid matches but was narrowly edged by both visitors. The A-Squad, “Back in Black,” dominated, defeating all of the day’s opponents. Team leaders believe that players were inspired by the arrival of Geoff Evans, who returned from Wurzburg, Germany, to join the team for the season finale.

The full, unified DUFF team will leave Friday for the North Carolina Sectional tournament in Wilmington, N.C., April 15-16. There they will meet national powerhouses such as UNC-Wilmington (9), North Carolina (10), and NC State (12). If DUFF performs well—and last weekend’s victories over its intrastate rivals are good signs—then they could proceed to the Regional tournament in Clemson, S.C. at the end of April.

Paladins serve loss to Wildcats
By Derek SMITH
Davidson S.I.D.

GREENVILLE, S.C. — The Davidson College men’s tennis team dropped its match last Sunday afternoon to Furman University, 5-2, at the Minor Mickel Tennis Center. Davidson won only two games on the afternoon. Whit Hansen defeated James Cameron, 7-6, 7-5, at No. 2 singles while teammate Alex Okulski downed Drew Parker, 7-5, 6-0, at the No. 3 spot. Furman was victorious at the No. 1 singles as well as No.’s 4-6 and took all three doubles matches from the Wildcats.

Davidson falls to 7-8 overall and 3-3 in Southern Conference action while Furman improves to 18-10 overall and 7-0 in the SoCon.