THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

South Carolina football coach Lou Holtz blasted his school’s fight song last week, saying he would not require his athletes to memorize the tune (see page 16). South Carolina’s current fight song is printed below, along with Davidson’s own anthem.

University of South Carolina Fight Song

Hey, Let's give a cheer, Carolina is here,
The Fighting Gamecocks lead the way.
Who gives a care, If the going gets tough,
And when it is rough, that's when the Cocks get going,
Hail to our colors of garnet and black,
In Carolina pride have we.
So, Go Gamecocks Go - FIGHT!
Drive for the goal - FIGHT!
USC will win today - GO COCKS!
So, let's give a cheer, Carolina is here.
The Fighting Gamecocks All The Way!

Davidson College Fight Song

O, Davidson! O, Davidson! You are the best old College in the east or west;
You play a fair game, you play a square game, and you win in everything—
And when the Red and Black machine is out to fight and looking mean—
Then I am happy as for you I sing.
O, Davidson! We will down them, down them warriors;
Come Davidson, we will conquer ere the day is gone.
Win for the honor of old Davidson!
And supporting team, all through their lines we run.

Study: Successful hoops program related to lower graduation

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) -- Two University of Arkansas researchers have found that universities with highly successful basketball programs experienced reduced graduation rates for all students.

UA sociology professors Bill Mangold and Doug Adams conducted a statistical analysis of 97 major Division IA universities.

They used data from ACT scores and percent of games won, and from the federal Education Department, NCAA graduation rate surveys for 1996 through 1998, U.S. News and World Report, and CBS sports archives.

“Current student retention theories tell us that a strong athletic program will bring students together and foster pride in their institution, thus leading to higher graduation rates. That’s the result we expected to find,” Mangold said.

But the numbers didn’t add up.

According to their study, football apparently has a slight positive effect on graduation rates, but basketball has a strong negative effect. As teams scored more basketball victories, net graduation rates dropped.

Although 112 universities comprise Division I of the NCAA, Mangold and Adams excluded the Big West Conference, most of the major Independents and U.S. military academies from their study. Because of their small size or regional student populations, these universities presented campus communities unlike other Division IA schools, they said.

The remaining 97 institutions were separated into five groups according to the size of their student populations.

Statistical analysis revealed that smaller schools -- those housing 14,900 to 20,000 students -- experienced the greatest loss of graduates as a result of basketball success.

“Sports on large, diverse campuses may well provide a source of involvement and identification with the institution,” the UA study states. “However, on a smaller, and perhaps more homogeneous campus, involvement in a successful sports program is more intense, competes with academic goals and leads to goal displacement.”

Swept up by the excitement of national tournaments and championship games, students neglect their academic responsibilities. Student enthusiasm also explains why basketball shows detrimental effects while football has a marginal influence on graduation rates, said Mangold.

According to the researchers, football attracts a larger alumni crowd while basketball is more popular among students. In addition, basketball teams play more games during the season, and games are more likely to be held during the school week.

In the study, they identified four factors significant to the balance between graduation rates and sporting success. Those were overall student ability, the potential for the development of social and academic communities on campus, the diversity of each campus, and measures of athletic prowess over the past decade.

“There’s no question that a good sports program can enhance the campus social environment and benefit students,” Adams said. “But in the case of basketball, this study suggests that once a team excels above a certain level of success, it becomes a distraction to students ultimately detrimental to the goals of the institution.”

Mangold cautions against exaggerating the risks associated with athletic success.

“This study doesn’t mean that everyone flunks out in March. It simply suggests that graduation rates could be higher if basketball teams had more limited success. We’re not trying to predict the impact on individual schools but to identify an overall trend,” he said.

Adams believes steps can be taken to mitigate basketball’s impact on graduation rates. He recommends schools provide greater academic support in the spring semester, including more study sessions, tutoring and advising.

“We don’t expect universities to pull the plug on their sports programs. They provide social outlets that are vital to the creation of a healthy campus community,” Mangold said. “But those universities who are considering investing more money in athletics for the purpose of raising graduation rates may want to take a close look at the results of this study.”