THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000 2B

Landis and assistants leaving for West Coast

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

A week ago Saturday, ESPN broke a story that sent shock waves through the Davidson football program: Head football coach
Tim Landis had been plucked away from the Wildcat program by an offer from St. Mary’s College of Moraga, Calif.

Landis, who spent seven years at the helm for Davidson, leaves behind an indelible legacy of accomplishment. He was the
winningest Wildcat football coach since Homer Smith (1965-1969), and guided Davidson to its best seasons ever, in 1998 and 1999.
But the story of Landis’ tenure was one of a remarkable turnaround. The program won just 22 football games in
the decade before he assumed the top spot. And though things started slow, Landis left the program in its best
shape ever. Davidson won eight games in 1998, for the first time in 101 years of competition. And with another
eight-win campaign in 1999, the Wildcats earned their first back-to-back winning seasons since the 1950s.

Also making the transition to St. Mary’s will be long-time Wildcat Tripp Merritt and first-year coach Steve Perry. Merritt, a
long-time favorite among players, has been described as one of the finest football minds ever to coach at Davidson. The
team’s defensive coordinator and chief recruiter, Merritt helped develop the Wildcats’ nationally-renowned defense. And though Perry spent just one season
at Davidson, the secondary coach made an immediate impact. Wildcat defensive backs picked off 28 passes this season, including eight
by Ryan Crawford.

“It will always be a tremendous time in my life,” said Landis, reflecting on his years at Davidson. “No one
can ever take away this Davidson experience.”

“You always hate to lose good people,” said Athletic Director Jim Murphy. “Professionally, we’ll continue to move onward and upward.
But personally, it’s a big loss.”

Landis, Merritt, and Perry will take over a proud program that has fallen upon hard times of late. St. Mary’s,
a NCAA Division I-AA partially-funded independent, went just 2-9 in 1999.

“Tim Landis took over a program at Davidson College that was struggling to win more than a game or two
a year and developed it into an outstanding program with outstanding athletes,” said St. Mary’s Athletic Director Rick Mazzuto. “We
are hoping he will quickly bring the type of success he had at Davidson to Saint Mary’s College.”

Landis extended job offers to each of his current assistants, but three of them—Al Logan, Bob Brown, and Brett Hayford—elected
to stay at Davidson.

“I know they’re going to be real good next year,” said Landis. “A breath of fresh air is always good.
I was just one piece of the puzzle here, our players know that a lot of our success has been
based upon their abilities.”

“We’re going to miss (Landis) a lot. He helped to restore credibility to Davidson football,” acknowledged Murphy. “But I’m not
worried whatsoever about the future of the Davidson football program.”

Many of the Wildcats’ senior leaders have sprung into action at the recent announcement. The team has met frequently over
the past week, and according to several players, the athletic department has offered...

The Soda Shop
Since 1951
Breakfast Burritos
Burgers
104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC
Fries
Eat-in
Take-out
All-Americanto in- the program. 1994 3 0 corporate a handful of Logan is a candidate 1995 1 8 1 graduating
seniors in the se- to succeed Landis. And 1996 6 4 1 lection process. both Murphy and Landis 1997 3
8 0 But another immediate con- expressed hopes that the 1998 8 24 sideration is assuaging the new coach, whoever
he 1999 8 3 0 concerns of incoming fresh- may be, will retain the Totals 35 35 1 men recruits.
“Within remaining assistants. “Continuity is always good,” said Landis. “It would emphasize continuity and understanding the culture,” Murphy agreed. Murphy
expects to consider between 50 and 75 candidates for the position, with experience levels ranging from Division III to the
NFL. The Athletic Department reportedly received a phone call from NFL legend Mike Ditka, who called to pitch a former
assistant from his days with the New Orleans Saints. Landis’ successor will take over a program at its peak, with
a rising senior class considered perhaps the finest in Wildcat history. NCAA guidelines, we (players) will do as much recruiting
as we can,” said Jon DeBord. Many of the players see the potential adversity as an opportunity for growth. “The
way we react is going to show the character of our team,” said Brian Bokor. The squad is just weeks
away from spring practices, but no timeline has been set for the hiring of a coach. “We just want somebody
in there,” said Crawford. “Before spring ball would be ideal.”

Hockey falls in second round of playoffs
By Mark Hymerling
Hockey Correspondent

The Davidson roller-hockey team faced off against the Hellfish on Thursday night in first-round playoff action. The Wildcats entered the
game without two key players, Brad Stevinson and Ryan Auster. Stevinson was unable to play due to illness and Auster
was sidelined by an injured knee. Playing with only one substitute, each player was forced to spend much more time
on the surface and play positions that they may not have played before. In the absence of Auster, the entire
team stepped up offensively, getting goals from everyone. Evan McCormick fired home a shot to give the Wildcats an early
lead. Ron Olson jammed in a rebound to add an insurance goal for Davidson. Bryan Stevinson scored his first goal
of the season on a wrist shot from the right circle. The Hellfish then began to take control of the
game, taking advantage of a somewhat tired Davidson team. Mark Hymerling brought the Wildcats closer as he took advantage of
a rebound. Trailing late in the game, McCormick fired in two goals to tie the game and send it to
overtime. Early in overtime, McCormick fired a slapshot from the left circle. Hymerling, standing in front of the net, got
his stick on the puck to deflect it through the Hellfish goaltender. With the victory, the Wildcats moved on to
face UNCC in the semi-finals.

In the semi-final game, the Wildcats jumped out to an early lead on goals by McCormick, Dave Smith, and Hymerling.
UNCC then began to pick up their play, cutting the lead to one. The Wildcats, playing again without Auster, built
their lead up again on a goal by Olson. McCormick then scored on a brilliant rush up the floor, burying
a wrist shot with a UNCC player draped across his back. The lead held up until late in the third
period, thanks to several key saves by Heit, when the depth of the UNCC team took over. They used three
full lines while the Wildcats seemed to get tired.
