By Linny Baldwin
Staff Writer

As the tightest presidential race in years enters the final weeks of campaigning, supporters on both sides are frantically working
to make sure their man is the one who ends up in the White House. The political organizations at Davidson
College are no exception.

Last Wednesday night, the Davidson Young Democrats made the journey to Wake Forest University to support Democratic candidate Al Gore
as he took on George W. Bush in the second of three debates. Co-presidents Hannah Brown ’02 and Mark Cody
’01 led the Young Democrats who made the trip to Winston-Salem. The group began the evening by attending a Rock
the Vote concert at the Wake Forest Coliseum. Participants were surrounded by a sea of fliers, free Doritos, and an
e-campus.com booth advertising cheap textbooks; a voter registration tent was set up to allow students to register while waiting for
the concert to begin. Voters in that infamous 18-24-year-old age group constituted most of the Rock the Vote audience. Most
attendees waved signs declaring their affiliation. Bush-Cheney signs outnumbered Gore-Lieberman posters by a wide margin. In the absence of official
signs, the Davidson Young Democrats conveyed their support by scrawling “GORE” on some of the fliers they had received on
the way in.

About an hour after arriving, the Young Democrats decided to leave Rock the Vote in favor of a rally hosted
in the Coliseum Annex by the North Carolina Democratic Party. Jeff Larrimore ’04 had obtained tickets to the private event.
The Young Democrats took their seats among the mostly middle-aged audience and settled in to await the start of the
debate. Despite the fact that younger voters were definitely in the minority, Brown was enthusiastic about “the chance to meet
other people who share [our] views.”

Many prominent North Carolina Democrats made appearances just prior to the debate, among them Secretary of State Elaine Marshall. During
the debate itself, the audience frequently erupted into applause. Gore’s pointed attacks on Bush’s record in Texas drew laughs and
cheers from the assembled crowd. The North Carolina Democrats jeered Bush as often as they applauded Gore. The biggest applause-winning
comment of the night actually came from the Republican candidate, who said, “Maybe I’m missing something here,” during a foreign
policy question. “You bet!” several people called as the Annex shook with laughter.

Johannes Norling
Al and Tipper Gore celebrate with local Democrat leaders at the rally following the debates in Winston-Salem. A group of
Davidson students from the Young Democrats traveled to Wake Forest University to witness the spectacle.

Al Gore thrills crowd of young Democrats
The Annex thought Gore came out on top, but the CNN spot poll disagreed; 49% thought Bush won, with only
36% for Gore. “I don’t think the polls were representative of what was said... Gore was clear and concise, but
Bush skirted the issues,” Brown said, pointing to race relations and racial profiling as one of the issues where Bush
lacked a clear position.

Despite the disappointing results of that poll, the audience was still enthusiastic when the Squirrel Nut Zippers took the stage.
Volunteers tossed pom-poms into the crowd and passed out official campaign signs. Several homemade signs carried messages such as “Environmentalists
for Gore” and “Tipper Rocks.” Gore’s supporters chanted, waved signs, and listened to the band for an hour before Governor
Jim Hunt took the microphone. Hunt touted the Democratic nominee as the only candidate who would provide clean air; he
also reiterated Gore’s proposals for universal preschool and 100,000 new teachers. Hunt then turned the microphone over to Senator John
Edwards, a nationally prominent Democrat who was frequently mentioned as a possible Gore Vice President choice earlier in the campaign.
Edwards thanked the audience for their support and then proceeded to introduce “The winner of tonight’s debate, a wonderful father,
husband and family man, a man with an extraordinary vision for this country.” Gore walked on stage to the audience’s
enthusiastic cheering.

Laura Rizzo ’04 was close enough to the platform to shake the VP’s hand before he opened by saying, “I
think tonight’s debate was all about priorities, all about values and all about the future.” In his ten-minute speech, he
reiterated many of his key stances and made veiled hits on Bush Sr. and the Republican Party in general with
references to “eight years ago.” Gore also paid homage to his hosts, saying, “You in North Carolina are blessed with
great leaders,” and praising Jim Hunt’s educational reforms. He closed with the following request to the younger Democrats in the
audience: “Genuinely open your hearts and allow yourselves to believe with all your hearts in America.”

“It was really cool how he focused on young people and how the youth of America needs to get involved,”
Brown enthused. “He wasn’t saying ‘look how great I am,’ he was saying ‘thank you for being here.’”

Johannes Norling

Internet, from page 1
as soon as the polls close. The current system, which requires students to bubble in their choices on Scantron forms,
causes many headaches. SGA members must man the polls, which limits the hours they can be open. There’s also the
possibility of human error. CandidatesNames can be misspelled on the ballot or left off entirely, and voters may accidentally fill
in the wrong bubbles. Online voting would virtually eliminate these problems. Since students could vote from their rooms or campus
computer labs, the need for staffed voting tables would be eliminated.

“We can’t reach the whole student body through the system we have now. We have voting in Chambers and Commons
but people are trying to eat and go to class. Internet voting will give students the opportunity to do it
when it’s convenient for them and we’d reach a greater number of students,” remarked Epps. Human error would also be
easier to correct. Changes on a ballot could be made instantly and there would be no possibility of erroneous ballot-counting.
The days of old-fashioned paper ballots could soon be over at Davidson, and SGA members like Pittenger will be happy
to see them go. “Ensuring that voting is easy for the students is vital,” noted Pittenger. “Right now we have
less than 40% of students voting and that’s downright pathetic.” “Nobody likes to go to the polls. We just want
it to be as easy as possible.”

Davidson students make trip to Wake Forest to show support for Bush
By Zep KELLEY Staff Writer.

While most of the country watched Wednesday’s presidential debate from the comfort of their living room sofas, a group of
Davidson College Republicans took a more active approach. They not only watched the festivities but also were a part of
them. The College Republicans started their night of political action off with a visit to a rally at a Wake
Forest fraternity house. As the briskness of the night began to set in, so did the excitement for the mass
of Republicans.

At Service officers overwhelming the streets, supporters were pushed back to a firm line behind the street and everyone was
about to burst with excitement to see the candidates. Finally, a motorcade came through, full of black vans, limousines, and
police motorcycles. The Republican mass went crazy only to find out that the man riding in the middle of the
first motorcade was Vice President Gore. He acknowledged the crowd with a slight wave, which made things all the more
fulfilling for the young Republicans. Finally, Governor Bush came through to a very welcome round of applause around 8:15. One
superstar introduced another, and the scene was then across the street as the governor and his wife walked onstage.

Immediately, the intersections were opened, and Republicans from all around gave an enthusiastic Republican welcome to both candidates. As the
motorcades approached, supporters gave out Bush/Cheney signs, American flags, and pom-poms. The scene was very intense, with Secret Service officers
overwhelming the streets again, and Republicans and Democrats alike retreated to their respective areas to watch the debate unfold.

As for the College Republicans, a local fairground was the official place to view the debate. All with invitations were
allowed into an area complete with barbecue, projection screen TVs, and plenty of support for Bush. Together with Republicans of
all ages, the group of students watched and commented on the debate, and as it came to a close, the
Republican camp declared Governor Bush the winner. Although the air was very cold, and all were tired of sitting on
the hard ground, spirits were at their highest when the group entered the covered pavilion to await the arrival of
the man of the night. The tiny structure was packed full of Republican enthusiasm as supporters started rally chants and
t-shirts and posters were thrown out to the crowd. A country band played to keep up the excitement.

Then, all of a sudden, Bush officials along with prominent media reporters began to fill the roped-off areas of the
stands. Police secured the exits, and everyone knew what was about to happen. NASCAR superstar Terry Labonte entered the stage
to huge applause. Then, one superstar introduced another, and the governor and his wife walked onstage. By then, it was
difficult to see over the upraised banners, pom-poms, and campaign signs, but everyone found a way to catch a glimpse
of the Republican candidate. He gave a short speech that the crowd overwhelmingly supported and after a few minutes retired
away to his motorcade. Immediately, the press and strategists left the building, still in an uproar. Shortly afterwards, families began
to leave, as did the group of Davidson students. Although the Governor was gone, his presence seemed to lift everyone’s
spirits a little higher that night.

On the way home, all of the students were thoroughly exhausted, but at the same time, thoroughly infused with excitement
for the upcoming election. One student said, “I always liked Bush before, but now I feel he is going to
make something special happen.” This experience was truly unique, and probably will not be the last time these students participate
in a political event of this kind. It was everyone’s opinion that the few hours of lost sleep were definitely
worth the experience that night, and most likely, watching the debate sitting on a sofa will never suffice again.
