By Koury Ashoon
Columnist

During the presidential campaign season of 2000, and in its long and drawn-out aftermath, the role of comedians and celebrities in maintaining a sense of levity throughout heated times has been highlighted positively by the media. It was refreshing to see Al Gore joke with Jay Leno on late-night TV. It was amusing to watch George W. Bush present his Top Ten List to David Letterman. And it was entertaining to watch the Saturday Night Live comedians parody the first debate between the two candidates. This humor is healthy, and it reminds the viewers that even with political and ideological differences, each candidate and each voter is a regular person.

Unfortunately, there have been a number of liberal celebrities who have chosen to cross a line of decency and make unfounded and blatant attacks, mostly at the expense of Republicans, in a twisted effort at humor. What’s worse is that the mainstream media have chosen not to report these events when they happen, supporting the claim by some conservatives of a liberal bias in the media. Following is a short list of such events.

During the impeachment of President Clinton, actor Alec Baldwin appeared on The Conan O’Brien Show. Alec lives quite comfortably in The Hamptons on Long Island, and he is a known chum of the president. Unable to understand the impeachable offenses committed by President Clinton, Alec was blinded by anger at House Republicans for bringing Clinton to justice. On Conan, Alec released some of his anger by urging the studio audience to find House Judiciary Chairman Henry Hyde and to “stone him to death.” It is ridiculous that this comment went largely unnoticed in the mainstream media. On the contrary, few would deny that had a Republican said the same thing about Jesse Jackson, for example, he would have paid dearly for his off-color remark. He would be labeled as a hate-filled racist. But the same Alec Baldwin who claimed that he would leave the country should Bush be elected is able to say anything he wants about anyone, even if the comment is evil and violent.

Last summer on the Late Show, Craig Kilborn (who does, admittedly, joke about both sides) froze a picture of George W. Bush on the screen, with a superimposed caption reading “Snipers Wanted.” As a result, the Secret Service promised an investigation, which never came. A call for the murder of a presidential candidate disguised as a late-night comedy routine is sickening, but it is worse that yet again nobody seemed to care. It is all too easy to implore you to imagine what reaction would have come should a Republican have done the same thing to an image of Joe Lieberman, but the cliché is appropriate and true. Had the roles of perpetrator and victim been reversed, the host of the show would quickly have been labeled as an anti-Semitic bigot. But the roles were not reversed, so it is apparently acceptable to call for the murder of a presidential candidate if you are a liberal comedian. This is no overreaction; even a humorous call for the death of the president is a federal offense.

Last Thursday evening, November 30, Bill Maher became the most recent liberal celebrity to jump into the ring. On his obnoxious late-night show Politically Incorrect, he...

---

How the Grinch Stole the Outpost
By Andrew MacDonald
Columnist

Before I introduce my topic for this week, I would like to address my absence for the past month. Many individuals (well, two or three, at least) have expressed extreme disappointment in the fact that I had stopped writing for the Davidsonian. My response was that I have been too busy to come up with an enlightened and comedic article every week. I’m a Davidson student; I don’t have time for any diversions nor for anything not directly resembling work. Well, except maybe for that party I went to last night...

Now do you see where this is going? I have been busy, very busy, and as I understand it, so has just about everyone else. This always seems to be the case. Between classes, community service, and nightly plots to take over the world, there just seems to be no leftover time. This explains, I think, why it really didn’t hit me until the other day that something very dramatic and drastic is happening at Davidson. I am not talking about the monstrosity of an excavation that is occurring behind Duke, Sentelle, and Cannon; and I am not referring to the fact that it snowed before Thanksgiving for only the third time since records have been kept in Charlotte (1987 or thereabouts). Actually, I am speaking of that mecca of grease, the capital of queso, and the institution that is the Outpost.

We have been aware for some time that the Outpost is leaving. But frankly, it really didn’t hit home for me until I went there Saturday night with a friend who is going abroad next semester. We went because it would be his last “PPB” (Pepperoni Pizza Bagel for you laymen) ever. How many of you went to the Outpost while a prospective visiting Davidson? How many have been able to pull an all-nighter thanks to that all-important snack at 1 am? Who among us has not taken a friend (or themselves) there to take a break from a court party? It is ingrained in our consciousness. And the tradition, the memory, is slowly fading into oblivion.

The Administration wants a new, vibrant campus center. It is putting over $30 million towards this goal. I agree wholeheartedly with their efforts. It will serve as a great gathering place for students, faculty, and community members and will make Davidson College a better place. But, I think we have to ask ourselves, at what cost? There are approximately 1600 students on Davidson’s campus and now there are three places to eat. This number now dwindles to two. Any economist (at least any one that I know) will tell you that competition improves service. I guess that the Administration must not care about service. Well, no, they just are operating under a different model, that of a monopoly.

Many other students have gone to great lengths to explain how the elimination of the Outpost will further segregate Davidson’s community. They have articulated their ideas and beliefs far better than I shall here. However, all they have done is to articulate those beliefs: Words on paper serve no purpose unless they are acted upon. We would not still be reading Thomas Paine’s “Common Sense” had our founding fathers not thrown tea into Boston’s harbor. Now is the time for action. Jean-Jacques Rousseau said, “man is born free and everywhere he is in chains.” I say that every Davidson student has the ability to stop this travesty from occurring, yet none will because they are bound, no, they are chained to their ego-centric lives where they don’t have the gumption to stand for an ideal greater than the next Chem test or this week’s party. I think that the Outpost will close next semester not only because the Administration wants it,but also because we will not stand together and stop them. Prove me wrong. I recalled the images broadcast earlier of a Ryder truck in Florida carrying ballots slowly up the highway from Palm Beach County to Tallahassee, under subpoena of a judge. The similarities of the helicopter footage in this event to the images of O.J. Simpson similarly broadcast in 1994 have been outlined by the media. But Maher went further when he quipped, “For a few brief moments, America held the hope that O.J. Simpson had murdered [Florida Secretary of State] Katherine Harris.” This is a repulsive comment from a repulsive man. Boston Herald columnist Howie Carr expressed his outrage at this comment on December 3, but other than that little more has been said. Recall that during the fall campaign, George W. Bush leaned over to Dick Cheney and called a reporter from The New York Times a “major-league a—hole.” This story was blown up by the media almost immediately after the comment was mistakenly picked up by a nearby microphone. The difference is that Bush is a Republican and the victim was hostile to Bush’s campaign. Bush’s comment was private, while the comments of Baldwin, Kilborn, and Maher were intentionally blatant and sensationally offensive. In addition, how likely is it that in private or out of range of a microphone Al Gore does not utter any choice words about political enemies as well? Putting aside the reality that most reporters probably deserve to be called an a—hole publicly at least once in their careers, the double standard in reporting all of these examples of offensive speech is truly stupefying. It is disappointing that some liberal celebrities have resorted to such offensive speech. There will always be indecent humans, in the ranks of which Baldwin, Kilborn, and Maher will always find themselves, but what is more alarming is the double standard imposed by the media for decrying offensive speech. Decrying is not the same as banning, as it does not infringe upon the First Amendment. But decrying this speech would remind us that humor does not have to include blatantly and deliberately offensive attacks on any person, Republican or Democrat.

Some holiday cheer courtesy of the left
By JOSH CRAFT AND ALEX MASSENGALE
Columnists

We sat down to write a serious column but realized it’s early December and the politics of the election have turned stale. Rather than write a sobering and intelligent column on relevant issues we decided to help those in need. The holiday season is upon us and rather than only giving to those close to us we decided to spread the joy of the holiday season to our friends on the right. We know they take from the poor and give to the rich but we’re hoping that a little of our generosity can seep into their cold hearts. We went to an alternative gift fair and found some great items to give to our confused, conservative buddies.

The first man on our list has been a particularly bad boy for quite some time. It’s none other than Representative (we use the term loosely) Tom “the Hammer” Delay (R-TX), majority whip. Although many Republicans could use them, Tommy Boy is the most deserving of our first gift, a heart. This grinch demonstrated his need for a heart the day after the Columbine shootings. In a congressional session, he defended guns as part of the American way, blaming the spree shooting on a decline in American values as a result of birth control, day-care centers, and the teaching of evolution. Our knight in shining armor has also conducted a long and lengthy crusade against environmental regulations. But who are we to judge. After all, the man started out as an exterminator in Sugar Land, Texas before realizing he could reap more harm on the earth in a suit than in a uniform with his name on it. We’d prefer to see him in a straight jacket. But it is the holidays, we’ll give him a heart instead.

Next on our list is a local favorite. Rather than giving him coal for the 53rd year in a row, we’ve decided to give Jesse Helms what he really needs: tolerance. The man whose whole political ideology is based on his vehemently racist and homophobic nature. Among the highlights of Helms’ political career are his opposition to having a holiday for Martin Luther King, his whistling “Dixie” to Carol Moseley-Braun, and his distaste for giving money to anyone in need. Those positions would only put him in the upper half in the conservative intolerance Olympiad but this statement, made in 1995 to the New York Times, puts him over the top. When asked about why he doesn’t support AIDS research, Helms responded, “we’ve got to have some common sense about a disease transmitted by people deliberately engaging in unnatural acts.” Maybe a little tolerance would soften the old fella up.

Now we’ve reached Trent “the Rifleman” Lott, a man who equates being a patriot with carrying a concealed weapon. Somehow, during the Republican Revolution of ‘94, he became the Senate Majority Leader. And since then this notorious bungler has contributed to the diminution of one of America’s most prestigious institutions: the U.S. Senate. Once looked on by the world as a beacon of hope (under the leadership of George Mitchell), the Senate has almost become as much of a circus as the House of Representatives. Granted, Lott has done some important things for the U.S. He has been instrumental in killing such common sense measures as campaign finance reform, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and tobacco regulations. We grant him the gift of a conscience (as opposed to consciousness, which we reserve for Strom Thurmond), so that he can effectively feel the pain of those whose hopes and dreams he seeks to crush on a daily basis.

Let us not forget George “Dubya” Bush, the hapless victim of social promotion. We wanted to give W a brain, but unfortunately all the available brains were in the heads of liberals. And we really like seeing him try to operate without one. Phrases like “Is our children learning?” and “I know how hard it is to put food on your family” will make his presidency a little bit more bearable. We decided to give him a little “care package,” much like the ones our beloved parents send to us. A little bit of guidance in a box. Upon opening the gift, Georgie will find some helpful learning tools: an atlas, for identifying the world’s “obscure” countries like Germany and India; a list of current world leaders, so he can pronounce the names of such unknowns as Tony Blair and Vladimir Putin; a dictionary, so that he can look up words like “subliminable” and “fraud”; and lastly, a little wallet photo of the man whom he will forever live in the shadow of: the man who bagged Poppa, William Jefferson Clinton. Oh, and to Rick Lazio we give one of those Lazy-Boys with a built-in fridge a la George Costanza because now he has nothing better to do.