THE DAVIDSONIAN ___ FEATURES THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000

Employees bring personal touch to campus

By SHELLEY CONROY AND KENDRA BERNER
Features Writers

More than half of it is devoted, not to students, but to college staff who enable Davidson to run on a day-to-day basis. Think about it: It’s a Monday morning and you’ve got a 9:30 class. You arrive at the Commons for breakfast where Irene swipes your CatCard and Helen behind the counter asks what you'd like to eat. On your way to class, you drop off your laundry and wave good morning to Ruth and John on your way out the door. In class, your professor is out of town but Cheryl Branz, department assistant, is there to hand out the midterm. After class, you head to the Union for a soda and Rosemary is at the cash register smiling, which always brightens your day. Perhaps you’re going abroad next semester. Well, you better make an appointment with Carolyn Ortmayer, coordinator of study abroad programs, to make arrangements. And don’t forget to go by RLO to see Sharon Leahy and Debbie Harrison to fill out your housing form for when you return to Davidson.

Needless to say, throughout the course of one morning, each of us encounters multiple Davidson employees that help us live our lives. Each of these employees has a story of his own. Why did Ruth decide to work at Davidson? What does Rosemary enjoy most about her job? And how do those police officers feel about giving out tickets?

The majority of people contacted noted that their jobs provide good benefits, a convenient location to their homes, and opportunities for increased training within their fields. The greatest part of working in the Davidson College community, they said, is the atmosphere. “I chose Davidson because I’d be happy here not only cashiering, but supporting those students whose moms are far away.”

“The people here are the real ‘fringe benefit,’” said Denise Howard, director of donor relations. “I have often said that they are some of the kindest, most caring, most intelligent people I have ever been privileged to know. This is a community in which hard work, honesty, and integrity are the norm.”

Archivist Jan Blodgett cited the genuine commitment to service as one of the best parts of working here at Davidson, while front desk laundry employee Ruth Barnette characterizes students as “very friendly and courteous.” Meanwhile, John Cherry, laundry manager, describes the student body as “friendly, honest, and straightforward.”

“The most enjoyment I find working here at Davidson is when a graduate comes up to me and tells me that I made or make a difference at Davidson and how successful they are in their careers,” said a Davidson College police officer. He stressed the rarity of finding a community like Davidson. “Communities like Davidson College, where your input actually makes a difference, are very, very hard to come by. It’s not hard interacting with Davidson students. After all, in my opinion they are the best of the best.”

Cheryl Branz is a departmental assistant and helps close to 30 professors with their day-to-day responsibilities. Many employees expressed their desire to work in a college environment and their care for the students. “I’m a people-person and enjoy the interaction with students. We really do care about and support the students,” comments Sharon Leahy of RLO. “I enjoy working with college-aged students in an academic setting,” added Rosemary Turner, the cashier at the Union. “Well, I really enjoy my relationship with the people in the College laundry, especially Miss Lula Bell. They are so sweet. I always allot about 10 minutes or so to pick up my laundry because I know that they will want to talk to me and I knowthat I want to tell them about my week or about my Spring Break—whatever the case may be. They work so hard and get little credit for it. Also, I'd be remiss if I didn’t mention the ladies that work in food services, namely the Wildcat Den. Miss Suegenia (who is retiring this year) always greets me and my friends with a smile and asks how our day is going. I can remember being at Mardi Gras for Spring Break and thinking to myself how I couldn’t wait to get back and tell them all about it. It’s quite simple: the support staff here at Davidson really makes our experience richer and fuller than it would be otherwise. I believe that a smile and a good word can go a very long way and the majority of folks in the staff here prescribe to that same opinion. In the everyday rush to make good grades, study, and get to soccer practice or play rehearsal, we tend to forget all those people who make this special little world of ours go round.” — Joey Harris, sophomore.

“Rosemary Turner in the union is one of the sweetest women that I know. She always takes time out of her work to give us huge smiles and a hello along with any funny stories she may have encountered. It is obvious that she loves her job and interacting with all of the students here. What a wonderful person.” — Mary Shell Brosche, Davidson College

STUDENT REFLECTIONS ON THE DAVIDSON STAFF

“I would love to talk to you about the greatest ladies ever—those who work in the union. They’re so awesome. They all sent me a card and were so great after I fractured my skull in the union. They were great before that, but I got to appreciate them more and know them better after it. James, the guy that works in the Physics building, is incredible too—always a hug from him—and he waves at me through the window while I’m in class.” — Zannah Bozzone, senior.

A Look at the Staff of Carolyn Ortmayer of the Study Abroad office.

“There are some people on our campus who provide unconditional support and passion for the college and are rarely thanked. This amazes me daily. As a freshman, I loved waking up to Brenda’s smiling face in the hallway, as she tidied up our hall and our spirits for the new day. As the years rolled on, I realized that all of the Davidson staff was equally devoted to uplifting the environment of our campus. I don’t think any thank you would be complete without thanking all of the employees in the Union, who not only manage to live through the thousands of hungry mongrels that run in and out of there at the noon rush hour, but specifically to Rosemary, everyone’s favorite cashier. Yes, I do rush to her line. She supports our community behind the counter and in our hearts. She has come to more swim meets here than even my family and she has been an inspiration pushing all of our team through the season and through every day. She remembers every face and every name, and she holds them in her heart as deeply as her own children. She and every other Davidson staff member here are a testament to the passion and dedication to this community that each and every one of us holds. Never underestimate the value of a thank you and a smile. They deserve so much more than even that.” — Beth Wilson, senior.

“During the Southern States swim meet, Rosemary went to Carolina Cones and had them put up a sign for us. The staff here serves to remind us of the real world—that life’s not just about our academic experiences—and that’s important.” — Tom Murphy, sophomore