+ THE DAVIDSONIAN News THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2000

Simply providing money will not end the drug trade

By Eduardo Estrada

A couple of months ago, the U.S. Congress started debating a request from the Clinton administration for a $1.6 billion
aid package for Colombia’s government and army. The House of Representatives has already approved the request and the Senate is
currently discussing it. The purpose of the petition is to aid Colombia in its war against drugs. The huge aid
package will serve to create two anti-narcotic battalions, trained and equipped by the United States. Their activities will be targeted
against the coca-producing regions of the southern part of the country. The equipment provided will include sixty-three helicopters and each
battalion will be composed of 950 men “drawn from the cream of the Colombian special forces.”

Colombia produces 80 percent of the cocaine that enters the United States. A large percentage of the profits obtained from
drug trafficking goes to the guerrilla group of the FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia). The FARC benefits directly from
the drug trade through the taxing and protection of cocaine plantations in Southern Colombia. This way it has been able
to increase its military power as well as its strength to 20,000 combatants around all the country in the last
few years. If the anti-narcotic battalions are to eliminate the cocaine and heroin plantations, they will necessarily have to confront
the FARC. Since 1998, this guerrilla group has engaged in conversations with Colombia’s president, Mr. Andrés Pastrana. This dialogue was
intended to begin a peace process that would end, at least partially, the bloody and irrational four-decade-long internal war that
plagues Colombia.

The aid package will primarily help Colombia in three ways. First, Colombia will cease to be the main supplier of
the cocaine that enters the US. Secondly, the deterioration of the social fabric that is a result of the existence
of an illegal drugs market will cease. As The Economist puts it, “A drug trade corrupts societies from top to
bottom.” Corruption, kidnappings, and assassinations will decrease. Finally, the military strength of a powerful state army backed by the United
States will push the FARC to sign a peace treaty with the Colombian government.

These outcomes sound encouraging. However, the US's strategy to crack down on the narcotics flow from Colombia is based on
the assumption that the elimination of cocaine plantations will eliminate the drug trade. If there is a demand for drugs
from the developed countries, there will always be a country that will supply them. For example, due to the reduction
of cocaine production in Peru and Bolivia, the area of cocaine cultivation in Colombia reached unprecedented levels. It was just
a matter of substitution. The editorial of a recent issue of The Economist expressed that “the increase in Colombian coca
(and thus in the FARC’s income) is a direct consequence of its reduction elsewhere. That is just the latest example
of the ‘balloon effect’: squeeze the drugs industry at one point and it reappears somewhere else.”

After more than ten years of a supply-sided strategy against drugs, the amount of narcotics that enter the US has
not been reduced. Hence, new demand-side strategies will have to be applied. One option is the decriminalization and legalization of
drugs. If the federal government maintains the current market prices of drugs, the demand for drugs will not increase due
to their high cost. Additionally, the lure of illegality that drives so many young people to consume drugs will vanish.
Consequently, consumption could even go down. Finally, the elimination of the illegal market of narcotics will decrease the crime that
stems from drug trafficking.

The Netherlands is an example of the effectiveness of this measure. Having legalized drugs several years ago, they now have
the lowest rate of drug-related deaths in the entire western world. Thus, the different proposals for decriminalization and legalization have
to be analyzed simply on the basis of their own merits, not on the basis of their conformity with a
determinedIdeological or moral stance. The proposed aid package will certainly result in the elimination of narcotics production in Colombia and
will lead the FARC to sign a peace treaty with the Colombian government. The violent internal conflict that Colombia faces
will come to an end, at least partially. But it will not put a stop to the drug trade.

No. 2 rebel band declares Easter truce

BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) — The country’s second-largest rebel army declared an Easter Week truce Wednesday, promising to suspend a crippling
sabotage campaign and allow traffic to flow unhindered on Colombia’s highways. The National Liberation Army, known by its Spanish initials
ELN, also said it would free the five-member crew of a domestic flight it hijacked 13 months ago but keep
the nine remaining passengers, for some $100 million in damages. Garcia did not specify when the ELN would free the
five-member crew of the Avianca domestic flight, who were among 46 people it seized on March 14, 1999. The rebel
band has been seeking to launch a peace dialogue with the government of President Pastrana, which has focused instead on
promoting whom it is seeking ransoms. Senior ELN commander Antonio Garcia, in a communique read to radio networks, said the
ELN would halt operations beginning at midnight until 12:01 a.m. on April 24 “so Colombians can go about their business
during Holy Week.”

In a bid to pressure President Andres Pastrana into pulling troops out of a northern region so peace negotiations can
begin, the ELN on April 3 declared all traffic on Colombia’s highways potential military targets. ELN fighters have since blocked
highways and burned and otherwise crippled commercial vehicles. The transport industry says 53 trucks have been destroyed and estimated damage
at $300 million. In addition, the 6,000-strong ELN has dynamited dozens of electrical pylons and telecommunications towers since late 1999,
largely in the country’s northwest. The public electrical utility ISA said the rebel group has mounted 325 attacks against the
power grid over the past six months, causing peace efforts with Colombia’s more powerful insurgency, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC. Pastrana withdrew troops from a Switzerland-sized swath of southern Colombia in November 1998 as a condition for
peace talks with the FARC that began two months later but have been moving at a snail’s pace while the
FARC continues bloody attacks on security forces.

Another country will simply take over Colombia’s position as the main narcotics supplier to the US market. The United States
will then have to consider alternative solutions within its own borders and not in the producing countries. Of the strategies
available, perhaps decriminalization and legalization is the best option. The author is a freshman Economics and Political Science double major
from Bogota, Colombia.

Major Colombian heroin ring dismantled with 46 arrests

BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) — Police said they dismantled Colombia’s dominant heroin ring Wednesday, arresting 46 people in early morning raids
in four cities with the assistance of U.S. drug agents. The drug gang, capable of shipping 100 pounds (50 kilograms)
of heroin monthly, was led by Nicolas Urquijo Gaviria, a cousin of the late cocaine lord Pablo Escobar Gaviria, officials
said. Urquijo Gaviria was captured outside the western city of Medellin. Police said the heroin — which would represent about
a tenth of Colombia’s six-ton annual production — was being shipped to the United States, Spain, Holland, and Italy. The
arrests show that “the mafiosos can’t hide,” Leo Arreguin, U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration attache in Colombia, told a news conference
in the western city of Cali, where some of the suspects were paraded before reporters.

Your image is everything. How much it costs can be our little secret. Turnberry Place-Cornelius (Next to Sushi at the
Lake) W. Catawba Ave.

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY $6.99
OFFER EXPIRES 4/28/2000
Not valid with other offers. Limit one coupon per customer. Valid at Turnberry location only.

The Ultimate Internet Gameshow
Grand Prize $5,000
High Score Month of April
Live weeknights - 9:00 p.m. est
Play against your friends across the country.
www.CollegeKnowledge.NET
