In most categories, Davidson fell between the 50th and 75th percentile; however, the college lagged behind in a few areas. Notably, the number of video references and electronic periodicals (excluding NC Live) fared poorly, falling in the bottom quartile.

Finally, while Davidson’s per pupil expenditures are about average for typical liberal arts colleges, Park admitted that Davidson is the “low man” when compared to the top 10 colleges.

However, he was quick to point out that Davidson has only been “solvent” for the past 30 years or so. Colleges like Amherst, Wesleyan, and Middlebury have had large amounts of capital pouring into their libraries for far longer. Even now, Davidson’s $335 million endowment pales in comparison to colleges such as Grinnell and Williams, whose endowments exceed $1 billion.

Park said he hopes the new capital campaign, which began last month, will bring new funding into the library.

In the meantime, the inter-library loan department (ILL) is very active in getting books that students request from other college libraries. The number of volumes requested from Davidson’s library, however, is well into the 75th percentile.

Joe Gutekanst, a top library assistant in charge of ILL, said this number is less a reflection of any deficiencies in Davidson’s collection than an indication of ILL’s reliability.

“It stands to reason that if you want something and aren’t sure you’ll get it in time, you may not order it.” The “marked rise” in ILL requests, he suggested, proves that Davidson students feel confident of receiving their materials in a timely manner.

Mark Cody ’01, a chemistry major, agreed with this assessment.

“While Davidson doesn’t have everything a science major desires, they are very good at getting articles, patents, and such to you via interlibrary loan in a short time,” he said.

Park cited the large number of ILL requests to dispel the suggestion that this system might be limiting. The large number of abstracts and indexes, he argued, lead to resources elsewhere — available either through ILL or online.

Davidson’s system of acquisitions is far different from other liberal arts schools. At most colleges, the librarians are in charge of acquisitions; they may take suggestions from students or faculty, but one or two individuals are ultimately responsible for building the library’s collection. Larger universities may hire professional bibliographers to make sure all academic areas are “covered” in the library.

But here, the faculty is responsible for acquisitions. Sixty percent of the library budget is split between the departments. Each department uses their portion to subscribe to periodicals and purchase other materials. Teachers request books they need for their classes and then tend to build their curriculum around resources they’ve made available in the library.

According to Dr. Park, the library collection is sufficient for Davidson’s academic needs.

“The collection reflects what’s taught at Davidson,” Park said. The school is also unique in that it runs a yearly review process to keep periodical subscriptions up-to-date, said Park.

“The collection of periodicals that we have are ones that every year, the faculty looks at and says ‘yes, we need those to teach at Davidson’... it’s good management of funds and prevents [building up] a collection full of junk.”

Many students said electronic resources are one of the library’s best features.

Hannah Brown ’03, a political science major, mentioned the Lexis-Nexis Academic Universe, which provides indexing and access to many legal, business, and government sources. Project Muse, hosted by Johns Hopkins University, is also a significant online source for Davidson students and faculty.

Science majors have also found more research options through online databases. A new program called “Sci-Finder” allows students to search the abstracts database without asking a professor to do it for them. Cody said the program “has added a whole new dimension to our resources.”

Indeed, a significant aspect of the plans for the library’s future involves increasing use of the Internet. Several library projects making use of Davidson’s online capabilities are tentatively in the works.

Park suggested online reserves might soon become reality. Instead of passing a single journal between members of a class, an article could be scanned and uploaded onto the Internet for students to access at their leisure. Similarly, music could be streamed to students in music classes. Many books are already available online; Park says over 14,000 volumes are stored in NCLive’s NetLibrary. Still, Park said he doubts electronic books will replace hardbacks anytime soon.

In the meantime, many feel Davidson’s library resources are sufficient for their needs. “We don’t have the largest collection, but it’s unique in many ways,” Gutekanst said.

Added Park: “As a liberal arts college, we can do anything anyone else can.”

We’re waiting.

You can still write for The Davidsonian

Contact Aaron Houck or Richard Vinson.