. THE DAVIDSONIAN NATION THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000.

Judge rules Microsoft violated antitrust laws

WASHINGTON (AP) — Humbling a proud giant of the computer age, a federal judge ruled Monday that Microsoft Corp. violated
U.S. antitrust laws by keeping “an oppressive thumb” on competitors during the race to link Americans to the Internet.

In a sweeping verdict against the empire that Bill Gates built, U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson said Microsoft violated
the Sherman Act, the same law used to crush monopolies from Standard Oil to AT&T. He concluded that the company
was guilty — as the federal government, 19 states including North Carolina, and the District of Columbia had alleged in
a case that began in May 1998 — of “unlawfully tying its Web browser” to its Windows operating system that
dominates the computer market worldwide.

“Microsoft placed an oppressive thumb on the scale of competitive fortune, thereby effectively guaranteeing its continued dominance,” Jackson wrote.

The verdict affirms Jackson’s previous ruling in November that the software giant is a monopoly, one that illegally used its
power to bully competitors and stifle innovation, hurting consumers in the process.

The judge’s ruling can be appealed, delaying its impact for years, and Gates said the company would pursue that avenue.
While Microsoft “did everything we could to settle this case, we believe we have a strong case on appeal,” Gates
said. “... This ruling turns on its head the reality that consumers know: that our software has helped make PCs
accessible and more affordable to millions of Americans.”

Microsoft didn’t lose all of the case: Jackson ruled that the government failed to prove that Microsoft’s exclusive marketing arrangements
with other companies “constituted unlawful, exclusive dealing” under federal antitrust law.

Jackson’s verdict opens the door for the federal government to seek drastic penalties against Microsoft. The options range from breaking
up the company that made Gates a billionaire to forcing it to share its proprietary software code with competitors. Jackson
also paved the way for states to seek penalties under their own anticompetition laws.

“Microsoft maintained its monopoly power by anticompetitive means and attempted to monopolize the Web browser market,” Jackson said in a
ruling that caused a record plunge in the Nasdaq market even before its release. Microsoft stock dropped by more than
$15 a share to close at $90.87 1/2, costing Gates about $12.1 billion in paper losses.

The Justice Department vowed to press the case until Reno’s antitrust chief, Joel Klein, said he was still open to
a settlement but that it would have to redress the violations cited in Monday’s ruling. Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer
also said the company would be open to more negotiations but it “would need to see an appropriate openness” from
the government.

“We’ve spent the past 25 years thinking of ourselves as a small aggressive company playing catch up to industry giants
even though at some point along the way we became a large company,” Ballmer said. “... Our intense focus on
moving forward has at times been seen as threatening and our passion for being the best has been misinterpreted. We
can do better. But that doesn’t mean innovating any less or delivering any less value to consumers.”

“Microsoft has been held accountable for its illegal conduct by a court of law,” Attorney General Janet Reno said. “Thanks
to this ruling, consumers who have been harmed can now look forward to benefits.”

Attorneys general for the states that joined the case called for strict sanctions. Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal urged Jackson
to “adopt remedies that are as far-reaching and fundamental as Microsoft's abuses of its monopoly.” North Carolina Attorney General Mike
Easley applauded the ruling. “There are many members of the computer software industry that call North Carolina home. They deserve
to compete on a level playing field that encourages excellence and innovation,” Easley said.

In his ruling, Jackson wrote that “Microsoft’s anti-competitive actions trampled the competitive process through which the computer software industry generally
stimulates innovation and conduces to the optimum benefit of consumers.” He said Microsoft adopted “aggressive measures” with computer manufacturers and
Internet providers that “successfully ostracized” Navigator, a browser made by Microsoft rival Netscape Communications, in favor of the company’s Internet
Explorer. Substantial business was lost to competitors “as a result of Microsoft’s decision to bundle Internet Explorer with Windows,” Jackson
wrote. The bundling “caused Navigator’s usage share to drop substantially from 1995 to 1998, and that as a direct result
Netscape suffered a severe drop in revenues from lost advertisers, Web traffic and purchases of server products.”

All the parties to the suit, including the states, tried to postpone a ruling by working the last four months
through a court-appointed mediator, Judge Richard Posner. The talks collapsed over the weekend, prompting Jackson to release his verdict.

Both sides in the case had reasons to settle. For Microsoft, the verdict is expected to spur more consumer lawsuits.
Microsoft already faces dozens of class-action lawsuits seeking potentially billions of dollars in damages. Private lawyers plan to use the
ruling to bolster their contentions that Microsoft abused its software monopoly to illegally drive up prices of its Windows operating
system.

“This is a manna from heaven for the private plaintiffs because it basically should eliminate a lot of their need
for proof,” said Robert Litan, a former Justice Department attorney who negotiated with Microsoft in a related 1994 case.

For the government, an out-of-court settlement could have meant immediate sanctions against Microsoft for its alleged anticompetitive acts. Such relief,
however, would be delayed with a lengthy legal battle now expected to find its way through the U.S.Court of Appeals,
where the case is likely to be tied up for several years. In addition, the U.S. attorney general’s office will
be under a new administration by the time the case reaches the appellate court level. The federal government has spent
more than $7 million in its lawsuit and used tens of thousands of pages of e-mail and other documents to
portray Microsoft as an industry bully. Justice Department lawyers said the company illegally used its heft to undermine competing technologies
and to discourage support for its rivals.

Questions and answers about the Microsoft ruling

WASHINGTON (AP) — It could be years before consumers see any impact of the landmark Microsoft ruling handed down Monday.
Another phase in the antitrust case, in which possible punishments will be explored, along with expected appeals of the verdict,
could tie the case up for several more years. Here, in question and answer form, is a look at what
the decision means for Americans and what they can expect to see next:

Q: My computer uses Microsoft Windows. How will this trial affect me?
A: The verdict is unlikely to affect Microsoft customers immediately, since there’s no product recall being considered. But the judge
could eventually order Microsoft to change the way it designs Windows, such as requiring it to offer a version without
an Internet browser or requiring it to include rival software programs within Windows. In the most extreme case, the judge
could break up Microsoft into smaller companies and set them to compete against each other by selling different versions of
Windows. Almost any punishment is likely to be deferred until the case completes its journey through the federal appeals courts,
which could last until 2002.

Jackson did contend that Microsoft's practices cannot be explained “as an attempt to benefit consumers” but were rather an effort
to “quash innovation that threatened its monopoly position.” Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates said the company will focus its efforts on
delivering new innovation to consumers.

Q: How did the judge issue his ruling?
A: The judge decided on a very unusual process. First, he issued his “factual findings” on Nov. 5, in which
he made the crucial determination that Microsoft is a monopoly. On Monday, the judge ruled that Microsoft violated the Sherman
Antitrust Act. The judge found that the company used its position to “monopolize the Web browser market” to the detriment
of competitors and that the software giant could also be liable under state anti-competition laws.

Q: What specific sections of law did the judge cite in handing down his verdict?
A: The judge ruled that Microsoft violated Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act in addition to various
state antitrust laws. Section 1 of the Sherman Act prohibits contracts and combinations in restraint of trade. Section 2 makes
it unlawful for a person or firm to attain or preserve monopoly power through anti-competitive acts. The judge found that
Microsoft violated the first section of the 1890 law by tying Microsoft’s Internet Explorer Web browser to its Windows operating
system. It violated the second section because the company “maintained its monopoly power by anti-competitive means and attempted to monopolize
the Web browser market,” the judge found.

Q: What happens next?
A: The judge will set a schedule for the next phase of the case to consider possible punishments of Microsoft.
The company has promised to appeal the ruling and believes it has a strong case in higher courts. “Until the
appeal is over, nothing is settled. We’ve learned that from experience,” said Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer. That process could
tie up the case for several years in appeals courts.

Q: What about future settlement talks?
A: Government lawyers said any settlement would have to reflect the determination of law made by the judge. “The department
is always prepared to settle so long as the remedy will deal with now the legal violations that have been
fully established by the court,” said Joel Klein, the Justice Department's antitrust chief. Citing previous attempts to resolve the case
through mediated negotiations, Gates said he believes there were parties who were not interested in settling, resulting in the eventual
collapse of those talks. “We remain open-minded to that, but we’ll have to see what develops,” Gates said in a
CNBC interview.

Q: Where can I read the judge’s decision?
A: The judge’s decision has been posted on a website run by the Government Printing Office, at http://usvms.gpo.gov

Lottery. from page 4.
students who choose that kind of living environment,” said Sara Cole, an RA in Sentelle next year. The Student Government
Association debated the issue of smoking in residence halls last week—and voted overwhelmingly to advise RLO to convert one building
to smoke-free status. Holmes solicited student input after the meeting and explained that most students lobbied for the new building—currently
known as “West”—to go smoke-free. But because of the heavy concentration of single rooms in that new building, RLO opted
to dub Sentelle—which is mostly comprised of double rooms—as smoke-free. “So many people are going to those singles in West
because they wanted to smoke without offending a roommate,” said Holmes. RLO is also likely to dub one all-freshman building
(or a few scattered freshman halls) as smoke-free. “We heard so much positive support from SGA,” said Holmes. “I was
hearing overwhelming support for another smoke-free building.” Much of that decision will be based upon feedback received from freshmen on
their housing cards. Students will have the option of indicating a preference for a smoke-free living environment, and those totals
will be considered when planning next year’s freshmen halls.

Looking ahead. The next major step will be the full lottery night, to be held on Wednesday, April 19.
