THE DAVIDSONIAN: NEWS THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

---

Amnesty International Peace Quilt

Cader Howard

Assembled by Amnesty International, this quilt combines patches made by professors and students who were asked to represent what peace
means to them.

---

Krentz, from page 4.

Looting and sieges rather than large-scale battles. In addition, it will help establish how often defenders came out to fight,
and how often invaders besieged or assaulted defenders who didn’t come out.

Warfare followed a set of rules, but I think most accounts of ‘noble battles’ were stretches of reality. Things never
really happened that way.

The largest task he faces is cataloguing and describing in an appendix every one of the several hundred known engagements
in Greek warfare during the Classical Period between 776 BCE and 338 BCE.

“There was an almost constant war between some of the hundreds of Greek city-states during the period,” Krentz said. “Much
of it was fighting over disputed borders, but much of it also had to do with their concept of honor.
Every state wanted to be free and independent, and in many cases that meant conquering your neighbor.”

He says good records exist for the latter half of that period, but that it will be difficult to find
reliable references for earlier engagements. In addition to using material from well-known ancient Greek historians like Xenophon, Thucydides, and Herodotos,
he will seek out more obscure accounts from monument inscriptions and chance literary references.

He hypothesizes that such a list will demonstrate that larger city-states fought much more often than small ones, and that
most engagements were limited to ravaging, looting, and sieges rather than large-scale battles. In addition, it will help establish how
often defenders came out to fight, and how often invaders besieged or assaulted defenders who didn’t come out.

Throughout the book he plans to emphasize the role of people. He will explain not just what fortifications were built,
but how they were built, and how soldiers ate and drank and felt. His chapters will cover “The Troops,” “Fortifications,”
“Campaigns on Land,” “The Storm of the Spear,” “War at Sea,” and “After the Fighting.”

Krentz looks forward to conducting his research in the land where the events occurred. “There’s nothing like being in the
place you’re studying,” he said. “I remember the first time I went to Marathon, where the Athenians defeated the Persian
invasion... The mound where they buried their dead 2,500 years ago is still there. Standing on it was a moving
experience because I realized that everything I study would be different if they hadn’t prevailed that day.”

This will be Krentz’s fourth book. He has previously written The Thirty at Athens about Athenian politics, and two volumes
of translation and commentary covering Xenophon’s Hellenika and Polyaenus’s Strategems of War. He is also working on a chapter on
land campaigns, not including battles, in the forthcoming Cambridge History of Ancient Greek and Roman Warfare.
