“The Prize Patrol will visit dorms randomly between Homecoming, September 24, and Fall Break, October 5. Residents who do not have a computer in their rooms can bookmark a “Favorite” on the campus network in any of the computer labs. Prize Patrollers will accompany such residents to a computer lab to check for this bookmark. Questions should be directed to Career Services at 2132. Lia Neiheisel

Favicon Conservation Conference
Candie Martin, Director General for falicm ilo, will speak at Davidson College from September 24 through September 27. The guests will be participants in a biannual international studies conference sponsored by Davidson's Dean Rusk Program in International Studies and Bank of America. All events are free and open to the public in the Gallery Room of Chambers Building. For more information, call 892-4080.

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Davidson’s lack of a vocal AIDS awareness group is about to change. Last week, the SGA approved the charter for a new student organization - the Davidson College Adopt a Country AIDS Campaign. Proposed by Muna Musiitwa ’03, Grant Lovellette ’03, and Judie Kaplan ’04, the club hopes to raise campus involvement with the AIDS cause.

According to its constitution, the AIDS Campaign is “a campus organization aimed at informing and involving students with issues relating to HIV/AIDS.” The club will focus on both education and activism. It plans to create a reference web page as well as to make financial contributions to international AIDS organizations. The club is a response to its founders’ realization of both the personal and global implications of AIDS. “I have lost relatives to HIV, and I realized that I wasn’t doing anything to help stop the spread of the disease,” said Musiitwa, a native of Zambia, where AIDS is particularly prevalent. She also pointed out the enormity of the AIDS epidemic throughout the world. It is now estimated that more than four million people have become infected with the HIV virus. In many countries, those in the 15-24 age group are most often infected, and the number of women infected with the virus is rising. While the number of new infections in the U.S. is slowing, other countries are not experiencing this positive trend.

The Adopt a Country AIDS Campaign seeks to assist countries whose lack of resources prevents them from offering sufficient AIDS treatment and prevention education. The club is planning projects and fundraisers that will allow the Davidson community to contribute to this effort. The first beneficiary will be an organization that serves women in Botswana. Eventually, the club hopes to expand the scope of its donations to other organizations and countries. The club is already setting high goals. The AIDS Campaign founded here in Davidson is the first organization of its kind among colleges and universities in the United States. The organizers hope to expand their efforts to other colleges and universities by helping found branches of the AIDS Campaign along with their financial support of a wide array of AIDS organizations.

An essential part of the AIDS Campaign is its use of the world wide web to disseminate information about the virus to students on campus and worldwide. Lovellette envisions a web page that will link readers to information about the Campaign as well as to the organizations that it supports. He hopes that this will eventually expand into a database which provides contact information for many other social organizations than those just dealing with AIDS. Membership is open to all and the club will meet once a month. As an organization recognized by the SGA, it will receive partial funding from the Activities Tax Council. All charitable donations that the club makes, however, will come from its fundraising efforts.

Wertheimer shares observations on Mexican election
By JOHANNES NORLING
Staff Writer

Dr. John Wertheimer gave a talk and slide show presentation on Sept. 17 about his experiences in Mexico during the nation’s presidential election this summer as part of the Dean Rusk program’s series of speakers. Wertheimer began his talk with an overview of Mexican politics for those in the large audience rusty on the subject. For more than 70 years since a decade-long revolution in Mexico in the 1910s, the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) has ruled national politics in Mexico. Until recently, the presidential elections were dominated by the PRI. However, in 1988 and 1994, the elections have been especially tight and fraught with fraud. The left-wing Party of Democratic Revolution (PRD) has been very close to gaining the presidency, and in 1997 actually won control of the local government in Mexico City by prevailing in the mayoral election. All of this activity, Wertheimer noted, pointed toward increasing contention in this summer’s election.

As he did six years ago, Wertheimer traveled to Mexico as one of many foreign visi-

9/18/00
Larceny of a bicycle
Complainant stated that an unknown person(s) removed without their consent her unsecured bicycle from”a bike rack near Richardson Hall. The bicycle is a light blue GT Outpost trail bike valued at approximately $150.

Damage to property
Complainant reported that an unknown person(s) damaged his blue Trek by breaking the rear spokes and chain while it was chained near Cannon Hall.

9/17/00
Damage to property
Complainant stated that an unknown person(s) damaged the porcelain top of the toilet at the Kappa Sigma house.

9/15/00
Natural gas leak
A staff member at the computer services center smelled natural gas and requested assistance. The Davidson Fire Department inspected the building and requested assistance from the gas company. The leak was located and repaired.

Campus Police Blotter
9/12/00-9/18/00

Larceny of a camera & CATCARD
Complainant reported that an unknown person(s) removed without her consent a Canon Rebel 2000 camera and her CATCARD from her unsecured residence hall room in Sentelle. The approximate value of the camera is $400 and the CATCARD is valued at $5.

Larceny of a bicycle
Complainant stated that an unknown person(s) removed without her consent her black Giant bicycle from a bike rack near Duke residence hall. The bike is valued at approximately $100.

Larceny of a check card
Complainant stated that an unknown person(s) removed without her consent her First Union check card and North Carolina driver’s license from her purse that was located in an unsecured office in Chambers. The check card was later used without the complainant’s consent to purchase items.

Contributed by Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of Public Safety and Campus Police

Since the fraud in its elections was uncovered in the 1980s, Mexico has invited many such observers to monitor national elections, along with appointing numerous domestic observers. For the beginning of his two-week “reality trip,” Wertheimer spent time in Mexico City learning about the election and absorbing the unique Mexican political culture. Unlike in the U.S., campaigns in Mexico tend to be advertised outdoors with colorful banners, posters, and graffiti, rather than inside on a TV set. Parties rely on embedding their symbol in the people's minds so that even voters unable to read can recognize the parties’ symbols on the ballots.

Wertheimer went on to describe how the PRI kept its “institutionalized power” for so long, and then lost it in the last 12 years. As the dominant party for nearly 80 years, the PRI resided in the middle, keeping its left- and right-wing factions content. Every six years, the sitting president would hand-pick his successor, who would then proceed to dominate the election. While in power, the PRI set up an extensive network of handouts for lower and middle-class individuals. When the elections came, small farmers and businessmen throughout Mexico voted for the PRI for fear of losing these subsidies they had come to rely on. Recently, however, defectors from the PRI have helped opposition groups rise. The first opposition president in the history of Mexican democracy, the National Action Party and its president Vicente Fox, will take its position this December.

As the election neared, Wertheimer moved to Huejutla, Hidalgo, to assume his job of monitoring the election. Wertheimer offered a very colorful account of his long day at the polling booth. He described a voting system much different from that in the U.S., where polling workers are chosen like jury members, the ballot boxes come with transparent windows in the sides, and each party sends a representative to each and every polling location to monitor the proceedings.

The Mexican government has been forced to take such drastic action because of the prevalence of fraud, or “dirty pool” as Wertheimer refers to it, in recent elections. However, there were also many good signs in this election. The increased competition, most notably the election of an opposition president, highlights an unmistakable democratization of Mexico. Furthermore, decreased voter turnout does not signal complacency, but rather indicates a decline in such practices as ballot stuffing.

While fielding questions at the end of his talk, Wertheimer discussed the impact of President Fox on America. While the president-elect voiced his desire for an open border with both the U.S. and countries to the south, this issue was not a point of contention in the Mexican election because such a situation is very unlikely to occur within the next six years. Conversely, as an advocate of big business, Fox favors free trade and NAFTA, and his opinion on these matters will be of much more importance. However, the increasingly global nature of the Mexican economy has been bittersweet: On one hand, Mexico may soon achieve the economic prosperity it has been yearning for since its independence in the 1870s. As with every other emerging nation, globalization carries a price that, in Wertheimer’s words, “the regional identity of Mexico may be diminishing.”

Aaron Houck

The staff of The Davidsonian is seeking a qualified student to take over web design. Contact Aaron Houck at aahouck@davidson.edu or Richard Vinson at rivinson@davidson.edu.