Press RELEASE

GREENVILLE, S.C.—The freezing rain that fell over the weekend couldn’t dampen the spirits of the newly formed Davidson Mock Trial
team as they drove back from this year’s South Atlantic Mock Trial Regional tournament. They left Furman with trophies in
the back seat and smiles on their faces. Their success came after only three days of intensive preparation. Most of
the teams in the region have been preparing since November, but it wasn’t until December 16th that Davidson’s team learned
that it could compete in the tournament. The team couldn’t meet over break, so preparation had to wait until this
semester.

After the semester began, two of the original team members left the team. Their leaving opened a gap that couldn’t
be filled until three days before the tournament. “Just imagine what we could have done with a week,” said sophomore
Seth Davis after the tournament award ceremony. The team consists of sophomores Jessica Bogo, Joey Harris, Nikki Thomas, Tadd Bevan,
Abigail Ferguson, Davis, and junior Kelly Byrd. In its first year of existence, Davidson’s Mock Trial team finished fifth overall
in the tournament and was voted “best new team.” This despite a field that included the perennial powerhouse Furman University.
A number of the team members garnered individual honors. Bogo was awarded a Most Outstanding Defense Attorney Award, Byrd won
a Most Outstanding Prosecuting Attorney Award, and Thomas was recognized as a Most Outstanding Defense Witness. In the last round
of competition, Davidson defeated a USC squad that finished third and will now head to the national tournament. The South
Atlantic region includes twenty-six teams, among them Furman, Duke, USC, and now Davidson. This year’s success has the team looking
forward to next year’s tournament. Most of all, the team members feel they have learned the value of working together.
In the three days leading up to the tournament, they worked long into the night in the Union Conference room.
“We pulled together, and developed a real bond this past week. We couldn’t have done it without each other,” said
Bogo.

The organization secured a charter approval from the SGA last Tuesday. Mock Trial was brought to Davidson by the efforts
of Jessica Bogo. Bogo, who also works extensively with the Pre-Law Society, competed in Mock Trial in high school. Byrd,
the new president of Turner House, also competed in high school, as did Harris and Bevan. Thomas competed in Mock
Trial for a summer at the Georgia Governor’s Honors Program. The other team members, Davis and Ferguson, were both newcomers
to Mock Trial.

The tournament consisted of four rounds, two on Friday and two on Saturday. Davidson’s team rolled out of Charlotte early
on Friday morning. The first round began just minutes after the team stepped off the bus on Friday. At the
beginning of each round, competitors have to be ready to represent either the defense or the prosecution, because they do
not know until moments before competition begins which side they will represent. This year’s case was a criminal murder case.
Each Mock Trial team consists of three lawyers, three witnesses, and one timekeeper. Harris, Byrd, and Bogo were the team’s
lawyers. The lawyers argue the case, scripting opening and closing arguments and asking questions on direct and cross-examination. As lawyers,
they bear the burden of knowing the case from front to back.

There are nine witness roles in this year’s case, demanding that the three witnesses learn three characters. Each of the
witness roles has an affidavit in the case materials which provides information about their characters and their knowledge of the
case. As witnesses, Thomas, Bevan, and Davis were required to base their portrayals closely on the wording of the witness
affidavits. Timekeepers provide essential information to the lawyers. The tournament rules prescribe certain amounts of time for each section of
the trial. Ferguson, the team’s timekeeper, used cards to inform the lawyers of how much time they had left to
speak.

The new Mock Trial organization on campus has approximately thirty members, allowing everyone to get involved at the level they
want. It also allows Davidson teams to scrimmage extensively. Schools can send more than one team to Regionals and Davidson
may do so next year.So in the future, anyone interested in Mock Trial can contact Jessica Bogo at #6050.

Cable TV, from page 1

To keep that source of entertainment from interfering with their academic or social lives, many senators pointed out that similar
fears were raised a few years ago when the college considered putting ethernet access in every dorm room. Second, Harris
expressed his own personal feeling of responsibility towards what he called “a student request that needs to be looked into.”
As an SGA member, Harris said he feels obligated to “deal with the issue at hand, because it hasn’t been
dealt with before.”

But President Vagt maintains he has an obligation of his own. The Class of 1969 alum professed that he valued
the strong sense of community in his undergraduate Davidson experience, a sentiment he claims many other alumni have expressed to
him. As a result of his commitment to building a strong community, Vagt explained, “We have an obligation to give
people occasion to come together.” Cable TV in all the dorms could, in his view, keep students from coming together.
“We have to be careful,” Vagt warns.

Two birds with one stone?

Administrators maintain that an increase in student lounges will address both goals—a desire to bring students together and a desire
to increase access to cable television programming—at once. Dean Shandley said that while he is wary of providing cable in
every single dorm, he sees benefits to “making it more available in a common setting.” Holmes admitted that while he
doesn’t believe cable television is the “evil empire people say it is,” he thinks that there are other ways to
meet those needs.

Harris disagrees. The class president denied any inherent connection between the cable TV and the lounge proposal. He stated that
the wording of the lounge proposal did not specify a student call for television lounges, and that both resolutions reflect
different needs and should be treated as separate issues. Haselden admitted that there might be some overlap between the two
matters but maintained that cable-access problems would continue even with the addition of more lounges.

Technical difficulties?

Putting to rest concerns about technical capacity, Harris pointed out that all dorms are already wired for cable access. The
college would simply need to contract a cable provider. Presumably, residents could decide whether or not they would like to
pay a monthly fee for cable in their room. President Vagt—known for his financial prowess and focus on fundraising—noted that
cable television would indeed be a profitable endeavor for the college. But in opposing the measure, he insisted that the
needs of the community overwhelm any financial consideration.

It ain’t over ‘til it’s over...

All parties involved in the cable debate stress that nothing is decided. Harris explained that he sees a “big difference
between asking for something and asking to look into something.” He expressed a continued commitment to educating students about this
issue. He also hopes to measure student opinion through polls, public forums, and discussion.

President Vagt, too, showed great willingness to continue the discussion process. “Their request was that we don’t quit talking, and
I say: That’s fine.”

The Davidsonian would like to thank... for their support.

Alexander String Quartet to perform at Davidson College

Press Release

The Davidson College Concert Series presents the Alexander String Quartet in performance on Monday, February 7. The concert begins at
8 p.m. in Hodson Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets are $14 for adults, and $10 for senior citizens
and students.

Based in San Francisco, the Alexander String Quartet has distinguished itself in all aspects of chamber music since its founding
in 1981. The quartet has won the prestigious Concert Artists Guild award and was the first American quartet to win
First Prize and Audience Prize at the London International String Quartet Competition. In addition to their professional performances, members of
the quartet serve as directors of the Morrison Center for the Advanced Study of Chamber Music at San Francisco State
University. A New York Times review of one of their performances said, “An unusually fine group musically, technically, in just
about any way one wants to view it.”

The Davidson College Concert Series was created through an endowment established by First Charter National Bank in honor of the
Coltrane family. It is funded by the endowment, the music department, and the College Union. Additional support is provided by
the Friends of the Arts at Davidson, and Classical 89.9 WDAV radio is providing media sponsorship.
