EDA SONAN
By BURGIN HARDIN
Sports Editor

As Davidson led 75-74, UNC Greensboro kicked the ball out of bounds with nine seconds left and the Belk Arena
crowd ignited. There was a feeling that the Wildcats just might pull this one out. Nope. Instead, the ball fell
into the hands of Spartan sharpshooter Courtney Eldridge, who drove past the scorers’ table and pulled up to let fly
a three as the buzzer wailed. Swish.

Now the Spartans have a road win at Belk Arena to match the win they recorded over the Wildcats three
weeks ago in Greensboro, and both games came to their disheartening conclusions by way of almost the same path. On
Jan. 8, the Wildcats led by one with just over a minute to play, but the revived Spartans scored the
last four points to capture the win. Fast forward to Saturday night when Davidson was up 75-74 with 40 seconds
left in the game. Landry Kosmalski had just dropped in a field goal from the edge of the paint to
give Davidson the lead. A scramble for the ball as the clock ticked down to nine seconds sent more bodies
flying than Mr. Wildcat sends hotdogs into the stands. From underneath the heap of collegiate hoopsters, a Spartan foot poked
through and tapped the ball out of bounds.

But when Kosmalski didn’t convert on a one-and-one attempt, the Spartans’ James Maye cleaned the glass and dished the ball
outside to Eldridge, who caught the Wildcats in a scramble and darted upcourt for the winning bucket. “But you can’t
fault Landry. He was 6-of-7 [from the line] at that point, which is why we went to him,” coach Bob
McKillop said following the game. And you really can’t blame the senior forward. Kosmalski finished the night with eight rebounds
and 22 points, a scoring effort second this season only to his performance in the season-opener against Siena. The game
really never should have hinged on his last-second free-throw attempt.

The Wildcats only trailed once in the first half and that was only by a point. After Fern Tonnella landed
a three at the 10:02 mark to break the 13-13 knot, the Wildcats averaged a 7-point lead for the rest
of the half. The lead even grew to 12 with only 1:30 left in the first period, but over the
next 90 seconds the Spartans managed to slice the deficit in half, heading to halftime only down 36-42. “We had
a chance to put them away at the end of the first half,” McKillop said. “But we just didn’t do
it.”

To start the second half, the Wildcats struggled on both sides of the ball while a Spartan trio of Eldridge,
Maye, and Demetrius Cherry chipped away Davidson’s lead until they evened the score at 49 just four minutes into the
half. But the Wildcats responded with their own trio—Kosmalski, Stephen Marshall, and Fern Tonnella. The three of them accounted for
19 points in eight minutes to help push Davidson’s lead back to eleven by the seven-minute mark. From that point
on, however, the Wildcats had their game on cruise control and let their double-digit lead slip away again. A Kosmalski
field goal was the only Wildcat score in the last five minutes as the Spartans outscored the red & black
attack 15-2 in the last five minutes. It was a mighty effort by the Spartans and lackluster lead protection by
the Wildcats.

“When you get a chance to seize it, you have to seize it,” McKillop said. “And we just didn’t do
that. The mental aspect of our game was missing there.”

THURSDAY, Landry Kosmalski scored 22 points in a losing effort.against UNC Greensboro last Saturday night. UNCG tops Davidson at the
buzzer.

Anna Judy Dickens pushes Davidson past ETSU

By Aaron Dunham
Staff Writer

JOHNSON CITY, Tenn. — It was a familiar setting at halftime. Davidson trailed North Division rival East Tennessee State by
two points, and the Wildcats were not getting enough good looks inside. Landry Kosmalski had just four points. Stephen Marshall
had two. You just knew one of the frontcourt players was going to step up in the second half. But
nobody thought it would be Jason Dickens.

The freshman forward scored a career-high 19 points, 14 during the last ten minutes of the second half, as Davidson
held on for a thrilling 62-60 victory over East Tennessee State at Memorial Center on Jan. 25. But it certainly
did not come easy. Davidson found themselves down four points at the 9:30 mark of the second half when Dickens
put the team on his back. He single-handedly outscored ETSU 10-3 over the game’s next five minutes, capped by a
driving layup that put Davidson ahead, 55-52, with 4:52 left in the game.

Yet, his biggest play of the night occurred without him putting the ball in the net. Trailing by two points
after ETSU guard Gabe Lisicky had a potential backbreaking three-pointer roll off the rim, Davidson worked hard for a shot.
With the shot clock winding down, Dickens threw a great pass out of the double team to a wide-open Marshall,
who scored and drew the foul. Marshall then hit the subsequent free throw to give Davidson a 61-60 lead.

“The biggest play he made was the pass to Stephen,” confessed Davidson head coach Bob McKillop about his budding freshman
star. “He showed great poise with the ball tonight... not just making plays, but also handling the basketball.”

ETSU guard D.J. McDuffie just missed a long jumper with two seconds remaining, and Marshall added another foul shot to
seal the victory. “We had to make the defensive stops there at the end, and we did,” said McKillop. “We
need these kinds of games.”

THE WEEK AHEAD

February 5, 2000 — The Citadel Bulldogs @ McAllister Field House (Charleston, S.C.)
Record (as of 2/1): 7-14 overall, 3-5 SoCon
Look out for: Sophomore Alan Puckett, who is averaging 11.9 ppg (20th in SoCon) and 3.0 rpg. He is fourth
in Southern Conference in 3-pointers with 46. Puckett went 8-for-8 from the floor when the Bulldogs met Georgia Southern on
Jan. 22.
Last meeting: Davidson defeated The Citadel 70-60 on January 18, 1999, at Belk Arena. Landry Kosmalski led the team in
scoring with 15 and Davor Halbauer paced the team in rebounding with five. Puckett led the Bulldogs with 14 points,
including four threes.

February 8, 2000 — East Tennessee State Bucs @ Belk Arena
Record (as of 2/1): 8-11 overall, 3-5 SoCon
Look out for: Leo Murray, who ranks eighth in the conference in rebounding (7.3 pg), third in the conference in
free throw percentage (.761), and he leads the Bucs in scoring with 11.2 ppg. Murray had 15 rebounds against Vanderbilt
when the Bucs traveled to Nashville on Nov. 29, 1999. Murray has had three double-doubles this season, including one against
conference foe Chattanooga.
Last meeting: Davidson defeated ETSU 62-60 on January 25, 2000, in Johnson City, Tenn.

Your image is everything. How much it costs can be our little secret.
Turnberry Place-Cornelius (Next to Sushi at the Lake)
W. Catawba Ave
HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY
Not valid with other offers. Limit one coupon per customer. Good at Turnberry location only.
OFFER EXPIRES 2/25/00

Great Clips
