The Davidsonian

Men’s soccer captures first place in SoCon with four

By Andy Schshin
Staff Writer

For the first time in many years, the Davidson men’s soccer team controls its own destiny late in the season.
Following a six-game conference winning streak, the Wildcats are 10-3-1, number one in the Southern Conference, and facing a chance
at direct entrance to the NCAA tournament with an at-large bid.

Davidson’s impressive winning streak, which began over two weeks ago with an 8-0 drubbing of The Citadel, culminated Sunday in
a 5-2 win over Georgia Southern at home. Davidson’s success can be attributed to stingy defense and prodigious scoring. In
the last six games, sophomore keeper Soren Johnson has notched three shutouts while the ‘Cats have outscored their opponents 22-4.

Davidson’s most recent win was a 5-2 shellacking of Georgia Southern. Davidson opened the game hot. Junior Chris Norbet opened
the floodgates, scoring in the 13th minute off a pass from junior Jon Tetirick. After beating a pair of defenders,
Tetirick fired the ball into Norbet who was posting up several yards in front of the goal. Norbet collected the
ball well, turned, and fired a blast past the keeper's outstretched hands. At this point, the Eagles were broken. Senior
Pat Miller added the second goal minutes later, finishing a free kick from junior Erick Ozimek. Junior midfielder Paul Watson
finished the game-winner in the 23rd minute. Streaking down the left side, Watson collected a beautiful forty-yard ball from freshman
defender David Peoples. Watson took the ball hard at the keeper, finishing the goal in full stride. Senior Ikenna Myers
and junior Joel Sadler scored Davidson’s fourth and fifth goals respectively late in the first half. The jubilant celebration which
followed Sadler’s goal revealed just how much the Cats are enjoying their success.

“I enjoy being out there every single minute,” Pat Miller commented. “We are training hard and playing hard and it
is satisfying to make our style dictate the game.”

Despite such a dominant win against Georgia Southern, Davidson’s six-game winning streak has not come easily. Following big home victories
against The Citadel and VMI over two weeks ago, Davidson barely squeaked by in three tough away games. On October
5, Davidson traveled to Wofford to face an opponent that was ready to fight. Though eventually falling 2-1, Wofford presented
a lot of trouble for the Cats. Defender Pat Miller’s game-winning goal in the first half broke a threatening 1-1
tie.

Women’s soccer places second at Harvard Invitational, falls to Furman

Press Release

The Davidson women’s soccer team placed second in the Harvard Invitational recently. The Wildcats defeated Vermont in the first round
by a score of 2-0 behind goals from sophomore twins Tara and Heather Maloney. Harvard defeated the Cats 7-0 in
the championship game. Tara Maloney was named to the All-Tournament team for her weekend efforts.

In a rematch of last year’s conference championship, Furman and Davidson slugged it out once again, with Furman prevailing 2-1.
The loss puts Davidson two games behind Furman in the Southern Conference, as Davidson is now 10-5 overall and 3-2
in the SoCon.

Early and often both teams were whistled for fouls as each side played with a lot of intensity and physicality.
Sophomore Heather Maloney got the first good scoring chance of the day midway through the first half, receiving the ball
on a through pass between defenders, but the Furman goalie rushed out of the net to make a diving stop.
Maloney got her revenge late in the first half as she lined a shot from the left corner of the
penalty box to the upper right corner of the goal, over the goalie’s head. The goal was Maloney’s team-leading 15th
on the season. Senior goalie Winnie Corrigan made six saves in the first half to give Davidson a 1-0 lead
at the break.

Furman kept the ball on Davidson’s half of the field through much of the second half, outshooting the Cats 9-3
in the period. After fighting off numerous Furman attacks, the Paladins broke through on a goal by Emily Turgeon with
seven minutes left in the game. A feeling of shock encompassed Davidson as Turgeon netted another goal with just 28
seconds remaining in regulation to give Furman the victory. Corrigan ended the day with eight saves. Furman had a decisive
lead on corners, 7-0, and shots taken, 18-11, in the contest.

Davidson will try to rebound Monday evening in the final home game of the season as they take on the
Terriers of Wofford.

Things would only get harder for Davidson, too. Over fall break, Davidson traveled to Charleston to face conference rival College
of Charleston. Not only did they have to face another team but Mother Nature as well. In the midst of
howling winds, nevertheless, Davidson pulled off a thrilling 1-0 overtime victory.In the sixth minute of the first overtime period, Jon
Tetirick broke away from the defense off a pass from Chris Norbet. Tetirick beat the keeper, ending the game with
a golden goal. Riding two more goals by Jon Tetirick, Davidson finished its series of difficult road games with a
2-1 win at Appalachian State. Despite the inherent difficulties in playing on astro-turf, Davidson was able to adjust their game
to get the victory. Tetirick launched Davidson into the lead in the closing seconds of the first half. Stealing the
ball off a Mountaineer defender, Tetirick fired the ball into an open goal. The half-time intermission didn’t cool Tetirick down.
In the 48th minute, he struck again. “I just finished the ball that had rebounded off one of Norbet’s shots.
It was sitting there on a silver platter,” recalled Tetirick. Appalachian State tried to mount a comeback late in the
game, scoring with six minutes left. But Davidson’s lead was never truly threatened and the Cats walked away with their
third solid road victory. “We have not always played perfectly, but we have responded to the challenges,” commented keeper Soren
Johnson. “We have been able to adapt to tough conditions [against College of Charleston and Appalachian State] and find a
way to play our best.” Miller explained Davidson's success, saying, “We have people who are ‘gamers.’ People who approach every
game professionally and will play as hard as they can no matter who they are playing.” Davidson is pleased with
their six-game win streak but believes its work has only just begun. “We still need to prove that we are
one of the top 32 teams in the nation and deserve a spot in the tournament,” said Tetirick. In the
next two weeks, Davidson will get that chance as they close the season facing four soccer powerhouses in Clemson, Furman,
UNC-G, and Richmond. “These last four games hold the key to our season; they are critical in determining whether we
earn a spot in the tournament,” said Johnson. Miller put it even more bluntly. “We wanted to put ourselves in
a position to get into the tournament and that is what we have done. But these next four games will
answer the question, are we good or are we just punks?” Despite the pressure placed on late-season success, the Cats
appear confident. “We will need a full effort from every player to win these games... there is a lot of
pressure, but I think that we will handle it well,” said Johnson. Davidson faces its first big challenge in Clemson
Wednesday night at 6:15 in Richardson Stadium. Still smarting from last year’s shocking loss to Davidson, the nationally ranked Tigers
are sure to come out fighting.

Field Hockey struggles continue

Press RELEASE

Davidson’s field hockey squad tangled with Virginia Commonwealth University but came up short once again in a 3-1 loss. This
game marked the fifth consecutive defeat for the Cats as they fall to 6-10 on the season while VCU improved
to 3-10. Virginia Commonwealth outshot Davidson 8-5 in the first period and converted two of those shots for a 2-0
lead at the break. The Cats did not go down easily as sophomore Amanda Strickland got her first goal of
the season on a feed from fellow sophomore Alex Rogers less than 10 minutes into the second half to cut
the Ram lead in half, to 2-1. Davidson continued to claw away and put pressure on the VCU defense, taking
15 shots in the second period and being awarded 13 penalty corners. Unfortunately, the Wildcats were unable to muster another
goal in the game. VCU iced the game on a goal with less than 10 minutes in regulation. Junior net-minder
Amanda Mordavsky stopped six Ram shots during the match. Davidson travels out to California to take on NorPac-foes Pacific and
Cal next weekend.

Cross Country competes in CCC

Press RELEASE

Senior Smyth Bitter finished seventh overall and sophomore Jimmy Swansbrough finished 22nd overall as the women’s and men’s cross country
teams competed at the North Carolina Intercollegiate Championships Saturday morning. As of Saturday evening, team scores were unavailable; however, finishing
in the top seven for the Wildcats on the afternoon were Bitter (7th, 19:03), Colleen Faes ’04 (23rd, 19:40), Jenna
Kruppa ’04 (28th, 19:57), Laura Puckett ’04 (32nd, 20:03), Emily Einstein ’04 (34th, 20:15), Brooke Kittinger ’03 (37th, 20:20), and
Liz Gross ’03 (42nd, 20:26). The men’s team finished fifth in the field of 11 teams with 148 points. Following
Swansbrough in the top seven were Brad Becken ’03 (29th, 27:00), Andrew Schoewe ’03 (33rd, 27:26), Chris Schmader ’04 (39th,
27:45), Colby Broadwater ’04 (44th, 28:00), Dave Bunge ’04 (48th, 28:14), and Keith Chapman ’01 (48th, 28:49). Next up for
cross country is the 2000 Southern Conference Championships in Boone, N.C., hosted by Appalachian State University on October 28.
