THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gender Equity

Equity, from page 1

By examining Davidson’s sexual harassment policies and comparing them to the other top 25 liberal arts colleges, the working group concluded that Davidson has “adequate” policies. Still, education, implementation, and enforcement all need improvement.

“Not enough is being done to make responsible parties aware of inappropriate relations,” noted history professor and working group co-chair Sally McMillen. “Everyone needs to be much more aware of the legal consequences and repercussions of the policy.”

“Greater emphasis via education and discussion can always be placed on an issue like sexual harassment,” Dean Ross agreed.

Specifically, the report called for the required periodic re-education of employees about appropriate workplace behavior, an increase in the time and depth devoted to sexual harassment issues during training sessions, and an annual review of the college’s policy.

The working group also expressed concern that faculty and staff were not adequately informed on how to proceed with complaints or questions regarding sexual harassment. They suggested that programs and written information be expanded to include the means to express concerns.

Currently, new Davidson faculty must attend a session in which the Vice President’s Office of Academic Affairs and the human resources department discuss rules detailed in the faculty handbook’s section on harassment policy and consensual relationships. In the past, new staff members were not required to attend sessions on sexual harassment and consensual relationships.

According to Brantley, a mandatory orientation program for new staff was implemented this fall. Current faculty and staff are not required to attend the training sessions. President Vagt, however, mentioned the possibility of an annual, mandatory session in which all faculty and staff members discuss issues of sexual harassment as well as other concerns raised in the report.

After investigation of Davidson’s family leave policy, the report concluded that Davidson is “far less generous” than many other top liberal arts colleges. Specifically, the report pointed to other schools’ parental leave policies, which provide faculty with a full semester off at full pay while staff receive at least some paid parental leave. And, while the working group acknowledged that a disparity may exist between other colleges’ written policies and their actual enforcement, Davidson’s policies still appeared unsatisfactory.

Following the report, the college clarified and changed the faculty family leave policy. Faculty are now entitled to a one-course reduction for a serious health emergency within a family. Some faculty and staff, however, may hesitate to create another office or committee. “The main challenge this report lays at the feet of the community concerns how we combat and resolve these problems,” Dr. Lewis remarked. “We recommended a standing advisory committee on gender relations and a part-time equity officer, yet a committee also carries a cost.”

Faculty also have the option of buying down an additional course for non-emergency situations of family or personal health concern. Buying down a course allows a faculty member to accept a salary reduction in return for a lighter course load. “The new policy is clearer and somewhat more generous,” asserted Dean Ross.

For staff, the college complies with the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 in providing twelve weeks of unpaid leave for medical and family issues. Additionally, according to Brantley, staff members can accumulate sick and vacation days to ensure pay continuation during leave. And, while the college will continue to pay 75% of the staff member’s salary in cases of serious illness, staff members do not receive paid parental leave once they have used up sick and vacation days. The report strongly recommended the addition of a paid parental leave policy for staff.

The working group also addressed long-standing problems such as inadequate campus lighting and an insufficient number of women’s restrooms in Chambers. According to President Vagt, women’s restrooms will be added in the future remodeling of Chambers, while efforts are continually being made to improve campus lighting.

Maintaining the dialogue

Not all concerns raised byThe report addressed specific policies. Scrutiny of Davidson’s overall “atmosphere” pointed to attitudes, speech, and behavior which often make women and even men feel excluded or uncomfortable. The working group, therefore, recommended the establishment of a permanent equity office to confront issues of gender and ethnic equity. They also suggested the creation of a permanent, presidentially-appointed faculty and staff Committee on Gender Equity. 

Surprise your college kids with celebrations, study breaks, exam time treats, or just for fun! BEN & JERRY'S VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT. 202 Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604. Surprise your campus chums with ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for birthdays or graduation.

“The main challenge this report lays at the feet of the community concerns how we combat and resolve these problems,” President Vagt stated. “If we do not establish these things, then there must be some permanent or semi-permanent way of addressing the issues. The issues will continue to arise once community awareness has been heightened. We cannot create something new only for the sake of creating something new. If something already exists in the system which gets the job done, then that is preferable. If not, we need to seriously consider something new. Also, there is often an attraction to being politically correct. We do not want tokens, yet we want to do everything possible to make people feel full and equal membership in the community.”

If distinctions exist as to the best way to address issues of gender equity, all involved agree that the report is just the first step in a lengthy dialogue that will hopefully result in specific changes. “This report is not a be-all and end-all,” maintained President Vagt. “I hope the final product is something that comes from discussions that come out of this report. There are a lot of people who have yet to be heard.”

“I’ve had really good conversations with men and women regarding the report,” Dr. McMillen said. “I don’t just want it to be conversation.”

The administration has planned two discussion sessions in order for faculty, staff, and students to respond to concerns raised in the report. The dates of the sessions will be announced shortly. A copy of the gender equity report is available to all members of the college community in President Vagt’s office.

THE STUDENT BODY CONCERNS

By Student Health Advisor

Once again, the Davidson College tradition of First Night Down has come and gone. Fraternities and eating houses went all out in their efforts to welcome the freshmen to the Patterson Court scene. Upperclassmen also joined in the fun on what is undoubtedly one of the biggest party weekends of the year. Davidson College has long had a tradition of not allowing freshmen onto Patterson Court until First Night Down. The rationale behind this tradition is that the beginning of the year should be a time of adjustment for freshmen. The time prior to First Night Down is a wonderful thing to spend time with friends and definitely needed after a stressful week of working and classes. But we urge you to keep in mind your personal limits. Make your decisions regarding the evening's activities while you are still sober. 

As health advisors, we are well aware of some of the potential dangers of First Night Down. The whole weekend seems like one huge party, with almost every eating house or fraternity getting involved in some way or another. There are live bands as well as DJs, and almost everyone on campus participates in some way.