Finally, after more than a semester of hard work by both students and administrators, a recycling program is coming to
Davidson. Soon, according to Barbara Zaionz, the Superintendent of Building Services, the Patterson Court houses and the senior apartments will
recycle aluminum, and Chambers will recycle its office paper. While this is an admittedly modest program, we must not underestimate
the importance of this gesture. The Environmental Action Coalition, the SGA, and the administration have worked tirelessly to bring us
this limited program. It was a frustrating process, and they did everything possible with the resources available. Zaionz has told
me that the current recycling program is the best the campus is capable of providing, given the current manpower. But
the fact still remains that on a campus devoted to community service, we are pitifully devoted to responsibly dealing with
our garbage.

What, you might ask, does community service have to do with a recycling program? It has to do with priorities
and it directly relates to how we understand Davidson’s relationship to a larger community. This spring break, Davidson will send
students, faculty, and staff to New Mexico, Florida, Nicaragua, and other locations to do service work in different communities. A
paradigm recycling program compels these projects: Davidson is somehow connected to a larger world and what happens in that world
affects our community. Thus, to be responsible citizens, we must be aware of the larger community and realize our responsibility
to it.

The absence of a comprehensive recycling program undercuts and subverts the very idea of community service. When we send recyclable
material to a distant landfill, we contradict our own stated dedication to community service. We are shirking the cost of
cleaning up after ourselves and placing it onto the larger community. Indeed, every time we throw something away, we are
doing community disservice. This contradiction between word and deed indicates to me an unhealthy community. On one level, we are
aware and willing to tutor, to mentor, to build. Yet, we are unwilling to institute a comprehensive recycling program that
would encompass not only office paper and aluminum but also newspaper, cardboard, glass, and plastic. Why? Why the discrepancy?

I mentioned earlier that I thought it was a matter of priorities. I was told we lack the resources (money)
to implement a campus-wide recycling program. Apparently, we are willing to be of service to the community as long as
it is economically viable. This discrepancy becomes even more painful when we realize that other programs are not held to
the same standard. As one example, every year we contently spend tens of thousands of dollars to stage a single
concert. The University of North Carolina at Charlotte has two full-time employees responsible for coordinating their massive recycling program. I
understand that UNC-C is a much larger school with more resources available. However, UNC-C’s statement that recycling is a priority
seems much more in line with Davidson’s expressed commitment to service than our current approach. We need to recognize that
our responsibility to the community extends beyond Cornelius. It extends beyond Mooresville. It extends beyond the bottom line. We’re not
being responsible with our own mess.

---

**Eating Disorder Awareness Week**
By Jutta Philpot, Student Health Advisor

“...Emotions control me...make me hide in a safe place of silence...my mind stays distant from what my heart feels. If
I say it...it’s real...so I say nothing. I can’t touch it...if I did I would curl up or crumble. I
may seem to be made by a heart of stone...but really just chalk...and I'm afraid to face the possibility that
I could easily turn to dust...”

The week of February 12th through 19th is “Eating Disorders Awareness Week” nationwide. The Davidson College Health Center is sponsoring
a multitude of events to help increase awareness about causes and prevention of eating disorders. Unfortunately, eating disorders are on
the rise, especially on college campuses. Yet, knowledge about such disorders is becoming increasingly available. Information for this article was
taken from the informative website: www.somethingfishy.org. The site is completely dedicated to eating disorders and includes topics such as...Medications, chat
rooms for support, issues for men, signs and symptoms, and much more. I highly encourage everyone to check out this
website in addition to the programming around campus this week. There are three types of eating disorders: Anorexia Nervosa, Bulimia,
and Compulsive Overeating. Low self-esteem is the common thread symptom inherent in all three of these disorders. Many times eating
disorders can stem from combinations of internal and external conflicts. As a way to gain control in the midst of
feeling whirlwind negative emotions such as stress, anxiety, and unhappiness, people meticulously control their eating habits. The mind can become
a forum for low self-esteem, guilt, deception, depression, and a need for power. Words such as perfection, approval, stress, anxiety,
and depression are frequently muttered around the Davidson Campus. Davidson, where everyone strives for excellence, is the type of environment
where eating disorders often arise. While the Student Health Center is conscious of the problems, eating disorders are often shrouded
in secrecy and deception. Rarely will a person divulge that they have an eating disorder, making such disorders difficult to
diagnose and treat.

On Thursday, the Health Advisors will be running a table devoted to eating disorders. At that time, there will be
confidential surveys and pamphlets for help in determining if you or someone you know may have an eating disorder. Therefore,
in an attempt to help stop such disorders before they start, I encourage openness and support among friends. Victims of
eating disorders often say they are lacking a listener, love, communication, and validation. In a college setting, friends become a
temporary family and support system. At times, everyone needs a little extra nurturing from his or her loved ones. So
please let this week be a starting point for everyone to tune into their own needs and the needs of
others. Try to give a little extra to those you care about every day, and don’t be afraid to ask
for extra support when you need it. In addition, set up consistent times with your friends to eat three meals
a day. That way, your body gets used to a normal eating cycle and you get some time to talk
with your friends as well.

It is time that Davidson’s recycling policy corresponds to our commitment to community service. It is time that we deal
with our garbage as responsibly as we deal with the Ada Jenkins Center. The time has come for students and
administrators to commit to instituting a comprehensive, campus-wide recycling program.

Ben Carter ’01

Reach Out reaches up

Reach Out and Service Council are combining to form an as yet unnamed umbrella organization that will oversee all service
activity on campus. The hope of this new umbrella organization is to unify service-oriented groups on campus and to foster
a holistic vision of service. Suggestions for the new name of this service organization can be submitted in envelopes posted
on the Reach Out board on the first floor of Chambers and by the College Union Information desk.

Also, interviews for Reach Out program coordinators will be held Saturday, February 19th from 12-5. Interested students should sign up
in the Dean of Students Office by Friday, February 18th. If you have any questions, please contact Caroline Cunningham, Betsy
Noble, or Lee Ann Petty.

Big Buddies Needed

If you have an interest in being a mentor and friend to a young person in the community, you will
be pleased to know that the Big Brothers and Big Sisters Club of America has recently formed an alliance with
Davidson College. This alliance will be a wonderful tool for connecting members of the college community with children in the
town and neighboring areas. Big Brothers and Big Sisters of America will also provide training sessions for mentors and can
obtain free tickets to events such as movies, shows, and the circus for mentors and their little buddies. An information
session about this new program will be held on Wednesday, February 23 from 5-6 pm in the 900 Room of
the Union. All students, faculty, and staff are welcome to attend and learn more about this great new opportunity. If
you have any questions, please contact Caroline Cunningham or Jill Williams.
