Stunning comeback gives women tournament champ

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Mounting perhaps the most stunning comeback victory in program history, Davidson’s cardiac kids clawed their way back from a 19-point halftime deficit here on Sunday to stun Canisius and capture the BankRI Brown Classic tournament trophy. The Wildcats—who trailed by double digits with as few as five minutes to play—stormed into overtime on a heroic buzzer-beating three-point jumper by freshman Ashley Hallsted. Junior forward Kelly Copland grabbed Tournament MVP honors and Hallsted joined her on the All-Tournament team.

Slow Off the Block

Canisius jumped out to a quick 20-1 lead, riding the broad, multi-talented shoulders of junior forward Shauna Geronzin. A fast-paced, tenacious and physical Griffin defense stifled Davidson’s offensive attack, holding the ‘Cats to a meager 21 points in the first half. Meanwhile, Canisius steadily accrued an imposing lead while Davidson found itself deeper and deeper in a hole as the first half came to a close.

Copland named MVP

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Junior forward Kelly Copland earned Tournament MVP honors with a gritty two-day performance at the BankRI Brown Classic. Copland scored 39 points over the two-day tournament, including a career-best 24 to key a miraculous comeback against Canisius in Sunday’s championship game.

“Kelly Copland was fantastic,” said a beaming head coach John Filar. “I was so pleased and happy for her after all the injuries she went through last year. Kelly Copland today was the player we recruited out of high school three years ago. She turned in one of the toughest performances I’ve ever seen.”

Copland did it all. She knocked down three-pointers. She grabbed rebounds on both ends of the court. She rattled opponents with a vigorous defensive intensity. And she delivered bone-shattering screens of the sort that will keep area chiropractors in business for a long, long time.

One such screen came late in the game, as a tenacious Griffin defender was racing Wildcat point guard Ashley Hallsted down court. Copland set up for a screen along the sideline and absorbed the blow of the oncoming Canisius guard, knocking her target to the hardwood—and drawing a clutch foul. Copland would go to the free throw line and knock down a pair of free throws to bring Davidson close to contention. Then she would score four points in the overtime period, sealing her selection as the tournament MVP.

Sporting a bandage under her left eye where a vicious elbow had drawn blood earlier in the game, Copland looked up in utter shock and amazement when her name boomed across the public address system as the tournament MVP designee.

But Canisius made what would prove to be a fatal blunder as the squad celebrated in their halftime locker room—just one thin wall across from where Coach Filar and his staff were trying to regroup and reignite their struggling squad.

“We played an atrocious first half,” acknowledged Hallsted. “But then I heard Canisius celebrating in their locker room next door. It put a fire in my belly, we had to let them know they couldn’t do this to us.”

On a Mission

Though a bit sluggish out of the gates again in the second half, Davidson would stalk Canisius from afar, gradually chipping away at the momentous deficit.

“We had to convince the girls not to try and get it back all at one time,” said head coach John Filar. “And our girls responded. They just reached down inside and showed a lot of heart. Once we started on the comeback trail, they just weren’t going to quit. It was incredible—it’s a huge credit to the types of kids we have.”

After scrapping away at the Canisius advantage for fourteen minutes, the Wildcats still found themselves down 64-50 with 6:20 to play, but refused to quit. The ‘Cats showed their first major glimmer of hope at the 7:25 mark, when Janna Magette hit freshman center Meghan Bryant with a half-court baseball pass to convert a fast-break layup.

But then Copland delivered a bone-crushing screen to a Canisius defender, drawing a foul and going to the free throw line—where she hit both ends of a one-and-one to close the gap to 66-64. Canisius maintained a 70-65 lead with 22.8 ticks left on the clock. Davidson brought the ball up court, but struggled to find an open shot until Leah Uhernik let loose a three-pointer with 8.4 seconds to go that narrowed the gap to 70-68.

Davidson immediately fouled the inbound play, sending Jill Knapic to the line with 7.8 seconds to go and a two-point lead. The 5-8 Griffin guard netted the first free throw, but her second bounced off the rim short. Taylor secured the rebound and outletted to Hallsted who drove up the court as the clock wound down.

“We were getting ready to run a free throw break,” Hallsted recalled. “I was on the right side of the court—waiting for Janna to become open, but she was covered. I heard everyone counting down, then I heard Coach Filar yell ‘That’s you Ash!’ so I shot it...”

The ball barely cleared the outstretched fingertips of a would-be Griffin shot-blocker and sailed seamlessly toward the rim—splashing through the net as the final horn sounded.

“Ashley’s shot at the buzzer was just a cold-blooded dagger,” Filar said. “You looked at Canisius’ faces after she hit that shot, and you knew they were in trouble. Then I looked over at Ashley and she was all smiles. She was like,‘Heck yeah, I knew it was goin’ down.” New Life. Davidson sent Hallsted, Magette, Copland, Uhernik, and Taylor to the floor for the five-minute overtime. The Wildcats were within ten on a second-chance putback less than a minute later, before fouling out on the next defensive stand. Kelly Copland would knock down four out of five free throws—including a perfect three after a shooting foul behind the arc—to bring the lead within double digits. JoAnne Hassel brought the ‘Cats within six after stealing an inbounds pass and dropping in a quick layup. Then, with 2:38 to go in the half, Canisius suffered a veritable implosion. After a Griffin missed a driving layup, Wildcat senior Kim Taylor snatched a defensive rebound and was fouled by Canisius star Geronzin, her fifth on the night. Frustrated and faltering by fouling out, Geronzin earned a technical foul immediately after—decisively swinging the course of the game. “(Geronzin) got that technical because Kim outhustled her and (Geronzin) got mad,” Hallsted described. “Now she’s out of the game and that made a huge difference. Canisius’ attitudes were crushed when their go-to girl fouled out,” said Hallsted. “They started to lose composure, they started snapping at each other out on the floor.” Janna Magette would sink a pair of technical free throws and Taylor converted the front of a one-and-one to bring Davidson within two. With 1:41 to play, Canisius extended its lead to four on a pair of Tricia Breznitsky free throws. Butler struck first, but Taylor found a wide-open Kelly Copland under the basket and Davidson knotted the game at 73 with 4:08 to go. An Ashley Hallsted jumper with 3:27 to play would give Davidson a 75-74 edge with 3:27 to play—their first lead of the game. Then with 0:54 to go in the overtime, Magette came up with a huge play—intercepting a pass and driving coast-to-coast for a go-ahead layup. Canisius answered, tying the game at 79 with 0:36 to go. But then Ashley Hallsted, once again, put Davidson ahead once and for all with a short baby jumper with twenty seconds to go. Kelly Copland secured a defensive rebound, drew a foul, and netted two free throws to seal the deal with a second and a half to play. 

Mike Anderson “They believe in each other now.” The victory unleashed a frenzy of emotion—with tears flowing down the cheeks of a good many parents in the stands. “This was a great weekend for us,” said coach Filar. “[Our girls] believe in each other now. The tournament restored their faith in each other. We now know that we can do whatever we want to do if we have good team play.” The contest featured numerous heroes—many of them were first-year Wildcats playing in only their sixth Division-I basketball contest. “We don’t have any freshmen anymore, as I wasn’t surprised by it at the end of this weekend,” Filar said. “They grew up big time.” With the victory, Davidson improves to a startling 4-2 record—having played five of their first six contests on the road. “Right now, on December 3, we can’t tell how important this weekend really was,” said Filar. “But when we look back on it in February, this weekend might very well be one of the most important of the season for us.”

Looking Ahead. The ‘Cats jump back into Southern Conference action when they host East Tennessee State at Belk Arena on Wednesday. Davidson hopes to improve on its 0-1 conference record. Filar will hope to channel the emotional energy of this weekend into a concerted challenge against a strong ETSU squad. “You have to stay really balanced in this profession and in this game,” said the seventh-year head coach. “It’s never as good or as bad as it seems.”

Sweet homecoming for Taylor PROVIDENCE, R.I. — This weekend’s action had special significance for senior center Kim Taylor, as the tournament marked a homecoming trip for the Wildcats’ 6-3 center out of Portsmouth Abbey. Taylor returned home in triumphant fashion, helping Davidson capture the BankRI Brown Classic in front of dozens of friends, family members, and supporters. None went home disappointed. The wildly athletic Taylor made one of the game’s most crucial plays late in the second period—grabbing a rebound and drawing both a personal and technical foul from a frustrated Shauna Geronzin, sending the Griffin star to the bench fouled out. “(Geronzin) got that technical because Kim outhustled her and (Geronzin) got mad,” described teammate Ashley Hallsted. “Now she’s out of the game and that made a huge difference. Canisius’ attitudes were crushed... I think that was definitely the play of the game.” Taylor went on to score three clutch baskets and secure game-altering rebounds, not the least of which came with seven seconds to play in regulation that resulted in an Ashley Hallsted buzzer-beating three-pointer. “She was on the court to help us win an enormous game on her senior trip home,” said head coach John Filar. “I’m so happy for her.” The center position has been a crowded one this year—with seniors Taylor and Jess Heath as well as freshman Meghan Bryant vying for time. But as the game entered critical moments, Taylor got the nod in front of her home crowd. “That means everything to me,” she said. “It meant a lot to be on the floor with that win.” Aside from an uncanny speed and athleticism, Taylor...