By Ricky Rasco

It was a good week for:

I was born and raised in Miami by Cuban-American parents. I went to a predominantly Cuban high school, and I live in a community where Cuban-Americans are the single largest ethnic group. But make no mistake. I was raised in an American city in which people are free and have the liberty to pursue their goals and speak their minds. None of us choose where we are born. I was blessed to be born in Miami. I owe this blessing to my parents and my grandparents. My father’s family was able to leave during 1961, but not together. My grandfather came in April right after the Bay of Pigs—he was on the run and sought political asylum in the U.S. Risking family separation, the rest of the family trickled in over the course of the year and were reunited in October. They arrived in Miami with nothing other than freedom and the opportunity to work to achieve their goals and aspirations. But most of all, they sought to enjoy the blessings of a free country, including the freedom to worship without persecution.

My mother, on the other hand, was sent to Miami without her parents. They feared that she, as other talented swimmers, would be sent to Czechoslovakia to train. My mother was reunited with her parents when they emigrated two years later. Though my grandparents have not played a very active role in my life, I owe them everything. My grandparents ensured that my family would live freely and have the opportunities to work, prosper, and achieve our goals.

“Give me liberty or give me death,” are the famous words of Patrick Henry. We hold this maxim dear in our history but often take it for granted. However, the desire for freedom has lured thousands of Cubans into making the dangerous crossing in order to escape the terrible oppression of Castro’s 41-year long dictatorship. The journey was fatal for Elizabeth Brotons, the mother of six-year-old Elian Gonzalez. Elian miraculously survived though 11 of the 14 Cubans who tried to come with him died before reaching the U.S.

Ever since Gustavo Noboa, Ecuador’s vice-president, was sworn in as president after his unpopular predecessor, Jamil Mahuad, was overthrown in a bloodless military coup, other Latin American countries, however, worry that this trend may spread throughout the region.

The European Commission. The commission recommended that the process of lawmaking in the EU be changed from the “unanimity” system to a “majority-voting.”

Kofi Annan. The UN secretary-general finally traveled to Moscow in an attempt to bring about a peaceful solution to the Russia-Chechnya conflict.

American tennis. Andre Agassi and Lindsay Davenport won the men’s and women’s titles respectively at the Australian Open, the first Grand Slam tournament of the year. Both players defeated last year’s champions (Yevgeny Kafelnikov and Martina Hingis) in the finals.

It was a bad week for:

Several prominent judges in Pakistan. The judges were dismissed by the country’s ruling military after they refused to swear allegiance to the regime. The judges dismissed included the Chief Justice of Pakistan and five other Supreme Court Judges. In a statement, the U.S. State Department condemned the action, calling it a slap in the face to democracy.

Citizens of Madrid. A bomb exploded in the Spanish capital, killing an army officer and marking the end of a cease-fire by ETA, a Basque separatist group.

The Pakistan city of Karachi. Two bombs exploded, killing 4 people and wounding 32 others.

The father of Elian Gonzalez. U.S. Federal Authorities ruled that Elian could not return to Cuba for the time being. As Congress prepared to grant him citizenship, President Clinton said he might veto it.

College freshmen. A UCLA study showed that they were the most stressed out students in a generation. The study found that 30.2% of all college freshmen frequently feel overwhelmed by all they have to do.

Lake Norman’s Best Mexican Food!
MEXICAN FOOD COOKED BY AUTHENTIC MEXICAN CHEFS
CORNELIUS
482 River Hwy 150
664-6363
MOORESVILLE
Magnolia 895-2363

Let little Elian stay in the U.S. That fateful crossing, Elian has since been embroiled in a political...war between two nations. On one side is his homeland, a beautiful island ruled by the greedy and ruthless Fidel Castro. On the other side is the United States, the “land of the free and the home of the brave,” a country that opens its arms to political refugees from all over the world. Should Elian be returned to his father in Cuba or should he remain with his relatives in Miami, where he will grow up in a democratic society? Elian’s mother, like my grandparents, dreamed of freedom. She made the ultimate sacrifice in order to give her son freedom. Through her son, Elian’s mother has fulfilled her dream. We must focus on this fact.

Many people believe that Elian should be returned to his father in Cuba. Even President Clinton has pressed for Elian’s return to his family in Cuba. However, as Roberto Romero, a Miami journalist, stated in a letter to The Miami Herald, Clinton’s track record exhibits poor family values. Romero believes that Clinton is betraying the boy by supporting his return to Cuba. Some argue that the boy should be returned because American law stipulates that the child belongs with the surviving parent. Such an argument applies a general law to a very unique situation. If Elian’s father lived in a country where he could make free decisions, then the solution would be to return the child to the father. Unfortunately, the situation is not that simple! Elian’s father is living in a repressive country where each child belongs to the government. At age seven, Cuban children stop receiving milk. At age eleven, they are sent to the fields to work. If he were returned to Cuba, Elian probably would not have to suffer these hardships. He would be treated as a triumphant hero in the political and ideological war against the imperialist United States. Though he would receive all the material goods he wished, he would never be given a chance to think for himself. He will never have the opportunity to study what he wants or to worship as he chooses. If he returns to Cuba, he will probably be paraded around the streets and told what to say. Elian might walk around freely, but he will languish in a mental prison.

To apply U.S. law to Elian’s case, therefore, does not serve justice. The surviving parent law was created for the safety and well-being of children. The application of this law to Elian’s case will have the opposite effect. Elian will live in a constant state of fear. The Dean of Berry University in Miami, Sister Jeanne O’Laughlin, recently hosted Elian’s grandmothers on their visit to Miami. Sister O’Laughlin originally was in favor of returning the boy to Cuba. However, she changed her opinion when she saw that the grandmothers were not thinking on their own but were instead acting out of fear. The fear that Sister O’Laughlin detected in those grandmothers is the fear that most Cubans live with under Castro. A child should not be raised in an environment that is controlled by fear. Elian does not want to live in fear and he has admitted that he does not want to return to Cuba. My own mother, like Elian, did not want to live in fear. She willingly left her parents at the tender age of six, knowing that she might never see them again, because she wanted to escape the fear and oppression of the Castro regime. The misery that Elian has experienced cannot be adequately expressed in words. He lost his mother on a raft in the high seas.

See Cuba, continued on page 5.

Study abroad is a transformative process. It helps you to understand the changing world around you and reveals ways for you to weave these new insights into the choices you'll make for your future. With over fifty years’ experience in international education and programs in Australia, Austria, Great Britain, Greece, Ireland, Mexico, and Spain, the Beaver College Center for Education Abroad specializes in helping students discover fresh perspectives. Our professional staff is always available to deliver outstanding personalized service, whether you choose to study with us for a semester, year, or summer. Contact us today and begin planning the experience of your lifetime! Call 1-888-BEAVER-9 or visit our website at www.beaver.edu/cea.