By Susan I. Rosison, Staff Writer

Members of the political science department kicked off the Dean Rusk Program’s busy agenda this year. Venom-laden words flew in a spirited tennis match Sunday night, sparking campus-wide controversy concerning the upcoming presidential election. Appropriately, Roberts was seated to Ortmayer’s “left.”

The debate was not about whether Fidel Castro was assassinated, as suggested by the farcical advertising headlines. Instead, the presentation consisted of an intellectual volley of ideas centered on the 2000 presidential election. The only major area of disagreement lay in which issues the participants believed would be important to voters, and which were, as Dr. Roberts termed, “non-starters.”

Ortmayer spoke first, alternating with Roberts for the roughly hour-long event. He listed acronyms for the four issues he felt were big: PNTR, NMDS, NAFTA, and AWL. They stand for: Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China (should we establish them, or shouldn’t we?), a National Missile Defense System (do we want to spend potentially 60 billion on this?), the North American Free Trade Agreement (how would either candidate uphold it as president?), and a “southern spelling” for oil (who caused the gas prices to go up?), respectively.

Roberts began by giving her version of the top ten reasons why campaign finance reform will not be a big issue in the upcoming election, the top four being that “it’s a presidential election year.” She also emphasized that the values of each candidate will be important to voters in the wake of the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. She stressed the possibility of a low voter turnout, and both Ortmayer and Roberts encouraged students to vote.

Both participants seemed to concede that many differences between the two candidates aren’t well defined and that the public is having trouble distinguishing Bush and Gore. Roberts dubbed the 2000 race “the likeability election,” pointing out that many Americans are posing the question, “who do we like more?”

Spectators munching pretzels were given time at the end to ask questions of the two sages. Queries ranged from the importance of the Supreme Court on voter preference to the possibility of drug legalization in the future.

The Dean Rusk Program sponsored this presentation, and its Student Advisory Committee (SAC) brought in the speakers. This on-campus organization strives to promote international awareness by involving students in various educational programs. After the debate, Amanda Britt, Co-Chair of the SAC with John Kenyon, introduced the officers of the SAC’s committees and the various ways in which interested students can get involved. Staff writers and editors are needed to help publish the monthly “Toilet Paper.” For more information, contact Nate Lotze.

Press Release

The Duke Endowment has donated forty-seven laptop computers to Davidson College to help assure that all its students have the technology they need for class work. Sophomore Ashley Price from Tampa, Fla., and other students with significant financial aid are leasing the new Dell Inspiron 3800 machines for $1 per year.

Price says both she and her mother are thrilled about the deal. “I’ve been fortunate my mom is so generous,” Price explained. “She gave me her computer to bring to school, but she needs it in her job and now I can give it back to her. She was so excited when I called her and said, ‘Guess what the Duke Endowment has done now!’ When I told her the price she said, ‘I think we can afford that!’”

Price holds three Davidson scholarships, including a William B. McGuire Scholarship that was established in part by the Duke Endowment to honor a longtime CEO of the company. “This computer was an answer to my prayers,” said Price. “A laptop like this gives you so much more freedom to do what you want.” The 500 megahertz processor and six gigabyte hard drive give Price plenty of processing power for her science and math courses. The laptops are loaded with Microsoft software.Emily Jucket heads the Community Outreach Committee, in which students who have been abroad are given the opportunity to present their stories to elementary, middle, and high school children in the surrounding area. The outreach committee also gives educational opportunities to those interested in international fields by providing exposure to professionals in Charlotte. 

Davidson is office and network-ready, so students can access Internet sites not only from residence hall rooms, but from the library and even some Davidson classrooms. Davidson has avoided requiring all students to purchase computers, allowing them to choose the machine and software that best suits individual needs. Those students who do not purchase their own machines can use any of 110 “public” PC and Macintosh computers in six locations around campus, some of which are open twenty-four hours per day. 

That trend accelerated with the completion of the campus network two years ago, which gave students direct access from their rooms to the Internet and college servers. It’s mostly a matter of convenience, Casey explained. “Your work accumulates on your own hard drive instead of on a network server, and you don’t have to carry around a disk with your files on it from place to place. You can set up your personal computer exactly like you want, and if you have a laptop you can even carry it to class or the library.” 

Casey said that the Duke Endowment’s $100,000 donation helps Davidson make sure that computer ownership is not strictly an economic choice for students. “Providing these students with computers and placing them on an equal footing with their peers is an institutional priority,” he said. “The lack of access to and familiarity with a personal computer can handicap students both in their school work and in careers beyond Davidson.” 

The college’s financial aid office handled the distribution of the Duke Endowment machines. Financial aid officers identified students in the first year, sophomore, and junior classes with the greatest financial need, and offered them the lease. The leases are renewable as long as a student remains at Davidson. The computers are one item covered by a $1.69-million donation from the Duke Endowment to the college last December. Several previous Duke Endowment grants have also helped the college develop its technological resources, including the construction of the fiber optic network to all buildings and residence hall rooms, and the construction of “technology classrooms.” The Duke Endowment is the largest single donor to the college, having contributed more than $50 million in its seventy-five years of philanthropy. 

Davidson is a highly selective independent liberal arts college for 1,600 students. Since its establishment in 1837, the college has graduated 23 Rhodes Scholars and is consistently ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in the country by “U.S. News and World Report” magazine.

Dr. Susan Roberts listens to Dr. Ortmayer discuss international politics. Those interested in helping arrange speakers for future events should join the Speakers Committee and should contact either Nejib Mohammed or Jehan Shamsid-deen. The Speakers Committee also hosts a weekly luncheon from 12:30 to 1:30 every Monday in the Wilson Room. Everyone is invited to listen to the former Dean Rusk Grant recipients who will be speaking on their experiences abroad. Derek Politzer and Katie Wilson are in charge of the PRIMA online journal, an electronically based news information source, and need help raising funds and editing the journal. The journal will publish faculty, student, and alumni opinions on international affairs. NaMi Kim is the contact for the Student Liaison Committee, and Priscilla Bannermann heads the Faculty Outreach Committee. Carlos Andres-Lacayo is Coordinator/Organizer of the SAC. 

Upcoming events include Jamie White, a former Davidson student who recently finished law school at Case Western Reserve University. On September 1st, he will be speaking about a paper he has just completed on international immunity and the Pinochet case. On the 14th of September, Ambassador Ken Brown will be speaking on foreign service careers. Dr. John Wertheimer will be presenting his observations on this past summer’s Mexican election on September 17th.