2. __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Foster, from page 1.

responsibility to their friends and to the college.” That emphasis paid off. “The whole day was a great success,” said
Haselden.

Under Haselden’s leadership, the SGA funded student efforts in record numbers. From groups such as Students for a Free Tibet
to The Davidsonian, and from events as varied as Earth Day to Lunar Luau, Haselden spoke with pride about how
the SGA had risen to the challenge of providing such financial support. “My goal was to help them out in
a precedent-setting manner.”

“From the outset, Foster wanted SGA to act as a safety net for organizations that needed money in a pinch.
All year long groups came to us for financial assistance. Some groups couldn’t have functioned without us,” said Erickson.

A byproduct of this financial involvement in student affairs was the issue of senator accountability. Haselden enforced the infamous fifty
percent rule, stipulating that SGA senators attend at least half of all SGA sponsored or co-sponsored events. As co-sponsorships increased,
the commitment required from SGA senators increased as well. “It was brave for him to do that,” praises Harris. “A
lot of senators opposed it. That took a lot of guts.” Haselden defended this bold position, saying, “It’s just a
matter of taking pride in whom you represent, in what you represent.” Firmly convinced that senators ought to play an
active role on campus, he adds, “We pushed them to be as visible, to be as active as they needed
to be.”

Another thrust of the Haselden Administration was to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the SGA. Nowhere can this commitment
be seen more clearly than in his attempt to rework the bylaws. Even weeks after the effort, Haselden is visibly
impressed by the senate’s accomplishment. Simply put, “This was huge.”

“The old bylaws got the SGA into a lot of trouble,” explains Harris. “There were just too many loopholes.” Haselden
remarked that the new bylaws not only brought the SGA up-to-date, but furthermore increased student voice in certain areas of
campus life. The updated bylaws created two new student advisory councils, one to the Dean of Faculty and one to
the Athletic Director. Both Haselden and Harris expressed great satisfaction in the new bylaws. The sophomore offered praise, “I see
the bylaws as Foster’s legacy to Davidson College and as Foster’s gift to the SGA.” Haselden agreed that they made
the SGA a stronger, more effective organization. “As far as being more powerful,” he explained, “it’s just a matter of
[the SGA] being more efficient, being clearer, and then with those new student advisory councils, having more contact with the
administration.”

At the center of all of these efforts, Haselden stressed the need for the SGA to “listen.” “That’s something I
always talked about — response to your friend’s concerns... that’s our duty, our responsibility — answer their concerns and represent
our friends as best we can.”

Some of those concerns were more visible and more emotional than others. For instance, the addition of a discriminatory harassment
clause to the code of responsibility and the pressure to create a new recycling program were both relatively high-profile issues.
Of the first, Haselden recalled, “It was one of the most controversial debates this college has seen in a long
time.” The recycling issue took lots of time as well. Haselden matter-of-factly responds to those who criticize the slow process
in developing the new recycling plan: “This recycling program was going to take longer [to develop] than the previous one,
because the previous one failed.”

Not all of the SGA’s efforts garnered the spotlight. During the past year, the SGA succeeded in securing additional lighting
on campus.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000

Haselden administration comes to a close amidst positive reviews. His achievements include overhauling the bylaws and increasing senator accountability. Furthermore,
the organization has won guarantees from the administration to build more lounges in the residence halls and to construct new
outdoor basketball courts. Dean of Students Tom Shandley remarks, “The SGA does a lot more for students every day than
they ever know.” Whether debating highly publicized issues or quietly improving the Davidson campus, Haselden expressed a deep commitment to
responsiveness and openness.

Amendment to Code of Responsibility gains
By Aaron Houck
Staff Writer

After one year of intense debate and consideration, the Student Conduct Council (SCC) recently passed an amendment to the Code
of Responsibility that adds a clause addressing discriminatory harassment. The SCC’s approval comes after a tenuous policy-formulation process that included
numerous alterations by various governing bodies.

According to the new policy, prohibited discriminatory harassment “involves conduct of an offensive, demeaning, intimidating or hostile nature based on
race, color, national origin, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability.” President Vagt recently approved the amendment and it will
soon become official college policy.

The call for the drafting of a proposal against discriminatory harassment has its roots in an incident that occurred in
the fall of 1998. A flyer advertising an upcoming address by an African-American candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives
was adorned with a racist slur. The event sparked a campus-wide outrage that led to a forum in the Chambers
Gallery toDiscuss the issue. Students and faculty at the forum suggested that the SGA work to make a statement against
such hatred and divisiveness. The SGA then created a committee to explore the option of adding a nondiscrimination clause to
the Code of Responsibility. Chris Tuttle (Class of 1999 and then vice-president of the SGA) and Joey Harris, recently elected
SGA vice president, spearheaded the effort to come up with the language for the proposal. Though the SGA had no
official jurisdiction over the matter, it was brought to the Senate floor for endorsement. For the next two weeks, the
SGA intensely debated the draft of the anti-discrimination clause. Foster Haselden, immediate past president of the SGA, called it “one
of the most controversial debates of the 1990s.” Those in favor saw it as a way to demonstrate their anger
and alarm regarding the poster incident and to deter such occurrences from happening again. The opposition brought up issues of
free speech and questioned whether the Code of Responsibility was the proper place for a “political” statement. Various students pointed
out that in many cases, actions that would violate the proposed amendment would have already violated other portions of the
Code of Responsibility (this would have been the case with the poster incident), and that there was no need to
“make a statement” in the Code of Responsibility, a legally binding document. Also of concern was whether someone could be
accused of violating the amendment by stating his or her opinion in a debate. One senator argued, “So if I’m
in a debate at an SGA meeting, and I tell a first-year senator, ‘You don’t know what you’re talking about
because you’re just a freshman,’ then do I violate the Code of Responsibility?” Finally, others feared that an overly restrictive
clause might stymie academic debate. After amending the proposal to address some concerns, the SGA endorsed the motion 23-10, with
one abstention. Shortly thereafter, the SCC began to discuss the language of the policy but deferred a final decision until
this fall. Davidson’s legal counsel helped in finalizing the wording of the amendment, but Dean Shandley stressed that “the real
tough work of researching other schools’ policies to help us determine what our policy should be was done by the
SGA committee.” In November, the SCC voted on the amendment and passed it. Procedural requirements necessitated that the SCC endorse
the change to the Code of Responsibility a second time. The second vote was taken in December, and the measure
passed again. The addition then only needed the signature of President Vagt, which it gained last week. “I am very
proud of the SGA,” said Haselden. “That we were able to do something so monumental shows that the students of
Davidson College have an influential say in what goes on.” The Honor Council (comprised entirely of students) and Judicial Committees
(comprised of students, a faculty member, and chaired by the Dean of Students’ office) have jurisdiction over trying cases regarding
the Code of Responsibility. Allaying concerns that the new rules would limit free speech, Haselden stressed that it is “an
intelligent proposal” and Dean Shandley explained that the committees “tried to be very purposeful in the language used.” President Vagt
commented, “I think that the process by which [the committees] arrived at this language is almost as important as the
language itself; because, in that process, people talked about events and occurrences that they would not have otherwise. It makes
us think about how what we say affects others.” The opening line to the section of the Code of Responsibility
states that “the students of Davidson College are responsible for maintaining an environment in which all individuals are treated with
respect.” “If that is the guiding parameter, then you are truly bound to respect your fellow student,” says Dean Shandley.

Election, from page 1. Organizations on campus, “We supported a record number of student organizations and student causes. We set
a precedent in the level of financial assistance we provided.” But Carter still hopes the SGA and other campus organizations
will do more. “We need to dream a little. We need to look at something that we think we can’t
do, and then try and do it.” For his part, the junior promises to remain an active voice in campus
concerns. “I feel like a loaded gun right now. Running in this campaign has forced me to really analyze the
priorities of this community.” Erickson, who will receive the torch from the Haselden Administration at the SGA’s meeting this Tuesday,
agrees that the SGA needs to help elevate the level of campus dialogue. “We do all these things (at SGA),
but people don’t know about it. We need to be out and amongst the people more often.”
