fc - THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

~ DANGEROUS GROUND ~

A fresh start: Re-defining the boundaries of Indo-US relations

By ROSHAN PAUL

“India and America are natural allies, two nations conceived in liberty, each finding strength in its diversity, each seeing in the other a reflection of its own aspiration for a more humane and just world.” That was how President Bill Clinton began his address to the Indian Parliament on his recently concluded tour of the Asian subcontinent. Some call it a new beginning. Others mourn the influx of pop culture and direly predict imperialistic intentions. Either way, last week witnessed a crossroads in relations between the world’s two largest democracies ~ The United States and India.

In an eagerly anticipated and long overdue meeting, President Clinton visited the Indian subcontinent for the first time. While in India, he visited local villages and hospitals, did the typical sightseeing you do in India, signed agreements on technology, science, and commerce, and generally played the diplomat role to perfection. However, the driving force behind his visit was an attempt to address the India-Pakistan dispute over Kashmir. Would the United States begin to play mediator between the two nations? And if so, how?

The process got off to a bad start even before the trip. After much dithering and debating, it was announced that Clinton would visit Pakistan as well. This visit was actually part of the original itinerary but was canceled after the October 1998 military coup. It was surmised that a visit to Pakistan would be tantamount to condoning a coup that completely disregarded all norms of democracy. Pakistan is not a...

By NATE LOPEZ

“India and Pakistan are two friendly countries of the US in the subcontinent,” said Mustafa Mahesar, a Pakistani. “One to talk to and one to talk at.” It is painfully obvious which is which. From Pakistan’s standpoint, Clinton’s whirlwind tour of South Asia was more like a tactless tornado in its political implications. The US president would spend five days in India, the Pakistani media bitterly noted, and a paltry five hours in Pakistan. Still, it was enough for Pakistani citizens to take offense, which they did.

In fairness, Clinton was in a bit of a quandary. Critics accused him of indifference to General Pervez Musharraf’s coup d’etat of October 12, 1999. Visiting Pakistan would be the nail in democracy’s coffin, recognition of an unconstitutional military regime. However, that was nothing out of the ordinary. Pakistan has seesawed between dictatorships and corrupt civilian governments since its inception in 1947. The only difference was whether the strongman wore fatigues and a chest full of medals or everyman’s salwar kameez, pinning his hopes on the one-in-four Pakistanis who actually turned out to vote. The morning after the coup, Pakistanis yawned, muttered “Long live the army!” and went about their lives. And Clinton knew if the stage was to be set for US mediation of the Kashmir issue, leaving Pakistan off the itinerary meant a loss of credibility as a mediator. So he squeezed in those five hours. That only added insult to the injurious presence of the Indian Army in disputed (Pakistan would say “occupied”) Kashmir. It relegated Pakistan to second-tier status in Washington’s foreign policy book.

Eventually, it was decided that Clinton would stop over in Pakistan for five hours on his return trip. US Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, then angered the President of India by announcing that the US viewed Kashmir as “the most dangerous place in the world today.” In response, the President of India publicly rebuked Clinton by asserting that alarmist statements of that kind gave rise to terrorists who believe that they can capture global attention by targeting such hotspots. As a mediator, Clinton had already started off on the wrong foot.

The conflict over Kashmir dates back to 1947 when the British partitioned Pakistan from India. The residual states were given the option of joining whichever nation they chose. The Hindu ruler of the largely Muslim state of Kashmir actually toyed with the idea of declaring independence until Pakistani raiders invaded his territory, which made him opt for India and its military protection. Since then, there have been two wars and several skirmishes in the region without any real change in the status of Kashmir.

The Kashmir issue is a thorny one since it not only deals with contested territory and populations but also concerns competing national identities. India is a secular state; Pakistan is an Islamic one. Mediating for peace ultimately means dealing with these larger issues which is well beyond the capabilities of any outside power. Since both countries possess nuclear weapons and have demonstrated the ability to withstand global pressure that they deem inimical to their national interests, several analysts regard the region as the world’s most likely “flashpoint” for nuclear war.

Historically, American discontent with India’s Russian ties resulted in a pro-Pakistan stance. Three factors have changed that stance. Firstly, Pakistan’s clear guilt as a terrorist...Sponsor in the 1998 conflict was accompanied by the military coup a few months later. The new leader, General Musharraf, then proceeded to ban public activities by political parties but placed no restrictions on activities of violent Islamic parties. This fueled American worries about the spread of Islamic fundamentalism. Two lesser factors are the slow emergence of India as a major power for strategic, economic, and military reasons and the growing influence of Indians in the United States. There are about 1.6 million Indians in the US, and their influence is rapidly rising, especially in the vital field of information technology.

The confirmation of a change in US policy towards the subcontinent came with this visit. As if the “five days in India and five hours in Pakistan” decision wasn’t insulting enough, Clinton’s India trip was filled with political goodwill, touristy activities, and positive gestures. On the other hand, he stopped in Pakistan only long enough to deliver a speech, which was primarily a list of do’s and don’ts for the Pakistani government. He explicitly stated disapproval of the military regime and requested Pakistan to respect the Line of Control. None of this rhetoric is new. However, the fact that it was spoken on Pakistani soil in front of Pakistani authorities gives it newfound significance.

It is very clear that the only route for peace in the subcontinent is the resolution of the Kashmir issue. Such a peace would be very beneficial for India because, unlike Pakistan, it doesn’t have any serious internal political problems and could use the opportunity to concentrate more on developmental and economic issues. Though nothing really substantial may arise from this visit, all the polite noises and goodwill generated certainly augur well for future progress and partnership.

The author is a sophomore Economics major from Bangalore, India.

International second-rate country: US policy in the subcontinent should not have happened, for three reasons: Firstly, the issue is a Cold War of principles. Kashmir is beautiful. Stunningly so. Within it are the headwaters of five major rivers. Aesthetics and strategy aside, though, there is a permeating religious tinge to the Kashmir issue. When the subcontinent was partitioned on 15 August 1947, semi-autonomous princely states like Kashmir were given the option of choosing either the newly carved-out Pakistan, a Muslim homeland, or remaining part of India. Kashmiri maharaja Hari Singh waffled. It was not because he was Hindu and his subjects were overwhelmingly Muslim. He simply wished to preserve his regal status. The Pathan tribe of northern Pakistan misconstrued his designs. One thing (Pathan saber-rattling) led to another (the intimidated maharaja legally acceding to India and endorsing occupation by the Indian Army). Now, the issue is one of spirit versus letter of the law. Is there a moral high ground? I would say not. The Indian Army has bloody hands, and with Pakistani-sponsored flare-ups like the Kargil crisis of 1998, the victims are the Kashmiris themselves. Pakistan, at least, acknowledges this. For Clinton not to is a mistake, a double standard. An editorial in the Karachi-based daily The Dawn noted: “The US dispatched half a million troops for the ostensible purpose of implementing UN resolutions on Kuwait while the resolutions on Kashmir are treated as of no account.”

Secondly, the resolution of the Kashmir issue is the key to democracy in the subcontinent. And democracy hasn’t been doing so well. Not in Pakistan. Not even in India, the self-proclaimed “world’s largest democracy.” Never mind the violence that plagued the last elections. Presently, Indian democracy is something akin to the Austrian debacle. Like Joerg Haider’s xenophobic “yuppie fascists,” Indian PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and the Hindu nationalist Baharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were elected on the strength of their anti-Pakistan plank.

Finally, Pakistan and India are nuclear powers: TIME noted how crucial this is. “With a warning time of approximately five minutes, a full-scale ‘city-bursting’ exchange [would leave] more than 17 million Pakistani and 29 million Indian dead. And that’s just in the first hours. The total projected dead, according to a 1992 study sponsored by the US Air Force, could reach 100 million.” Humanitarian concerns (a hallmark of US foreign policy since the Carter administration) are unthinkable in their scope, with other past hotspots—ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, rebel insurgencies in Congo, killings by pro-Indonesian militias in East Timor—paling in comparison.

Thinking of Pakistan as a knee-jerk reactionary state is just plain wrong. Pakistan was in the nuclear club long before the testing in Chagai. Everyone knew that—Indian policymakers, the Pakistanis themselves, even the relatively insulated foreign community. Five-hour consideration is an underestimation. Pakistan deserves more respect than that. Clinton would be wise to rethink his South Asia policy. Pakistan is no second-tier state in the Kashmir issue, or within the framework of peacemaking. There is a new Cold War on the subcontinent. Uneven dealing will not resolve it.

The author is a junior Political Science major from Karachi, Pakistan.