Physical Plant (among other departments) toiled to bring about this program—Whitney Frazier, a senior class senator, also helped to spearhead these efforts and served as an SGA liaison to these other organizations. In other recent news, Beth Gardner has been hard at work as the new Rides Committee chair. She will be looked to revive the VAMONOS van service—providing students with free rides on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights anywhere between Exits 25 and 36. At a recent faculty committee meeting, the SGA learned that the college has made an official change in their Pass/Fail policy. Students now will have six weeks to designate (or undesignate) a class with the pass/fail grading option. (Policy up to this point gave students three weeks to select a class, and a total of nine weeks to ‘unselect’ it). Furthermore, students will not need their adviser’s signature to select a pass-fail course. The issue of smoking on campus was deliberated at length, and at day’s end, the SGA gave its endorsement to the option of assigning one residence hall on campus to be smoke-free. Sentelle will be the smoke-free upperclass building for 2000-2001. The SGA is actively supporting the Oxfam dinner, the culmination of Hunger and Poverty Awareness Week, sponsored by CROP (Christian Rural Outreach Program). The dinner is designed to give people a taste of how food distribution in the world actually works. It will last from 6:00 until 7:30 on April 26 in the Harrison room of the Commons. The dinner only costs $3; tickets are on sale during lunch and dinner at the Commons all week. It promises to be a powerfully eye-opening experience. Perhaps the most exciting event taking place right now in the SGA is the issue of the Capitol. A smaller battle flag would be flown from a flagpole on the front lawn of the statehouse. The matter now goes to the State House, where it faces a divided legislature. In related news, President Vagt has voiced his support for an on-campus summit of Southern Conference SGA Presidents. The president has offered free lodging in the guest houses to Southern Conference presidents that might attend. Finally, the SGA will be sponsoring a letter-writing campaign later this week, urging the State of South Carolina to cease its display of the Confederate flag.

VIEWPOINT
Where have all the heroes gone?
PART TWO OF TWO

The despicable actions and attitudes reflected in the sports world have permeated to other public arenas that were once sources of heroism. One glaring example is politics. Now, some of you may think I am crazy for thinking politics is a hotbed of heroism, but please bear with me. These most recent presidential primaries were brawls, not over the issues, but over who had committed the worst actions as a politician. Let me just say that the concept of accentuating the positive did not come into play during these presidential primaries. Arizona senator John McCain and Texas governor George Bush threw enough punches to fill up an entire season of Friday night fights on ESPN. Former senator Bill Bradley tried to ignore Vice President Al Gore’s slanderous tactics, but ignored them too long. It cost him any chance at the nomination. The previous sentence is perhaps the most shameful part of the American political arena. Mudslinging, not campaigning on the issues, still wins votes and thus, wins elections. Special interests still rule the day in Washington and America even with the negative ads they support financially and even with the small businesses they destroy through political favors. These political favors are the result of huge campaign contributions I might add. For all future politicians, do not worry about being educated about the issues. Just know how to put down your opponent in any way possible and know how to shake hands and act superficially in order to garner huge campaign contributions. Standing up for something, fighting for the weak against the strong, and thus, acting like a hero, does not mean anything anymore in politics. Politicians no longer regard themselves to act like their predecessors such as Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry Truman. Unlike those men, they do not act as guardians of American security. They do not feel they are accountable for ensuring the American dream. They do not inspire a sense of civic duty or participation. They do not act as avenues for the American people to seek justice and to maintain their freedom. They do not give the American people hope. They act only as guardians of themselves and the special interests that get them elected. In order to be successful today, politicians must only think of themselves and money. Politics is about money and connections. It is not about ideas and values. It is not about heroism. Sports and politics, with disgrace and without dignity, have failed horribly in their once-viewed roles—the role of an arena that encouraged, promoted, and developed the values of heroism. What arenas are left to turn to? Policemen, protectors of the public safety and preservers of the common good, sound like they could be heroes. The Amadou Diallo tragedy and the scandal that has rocked the Los Angeles police department are examples that certainly challenge that potentiality. These horrible events reflect ignorance and a total lack of accountability for our actions. Four New York City police officers are found innocent of any criminal wrongdoing after they shot an unarmed black man, Amadou Diallo, forty-one times while the man was standing at his front doorstep. Right now, if I lived in New York, I would be afraid to even go outside after dark. Policemen, who are usually regarded as those who guarantee our safety and security, have failed in their roles.life. I have stated numerous examples, but just to jog your memory, do not forget that one first grader shot another first grader two weeks ago in Michigan. However, to even further emphasize my point, there is the event that happens this Monday. On Monday, future Hall of Fame quarterback Dan Marino will retire after seventeen seasons as a professional. Dan has rewritten the record books for his position and at the same time represented all that is good not just in sports, but in life. Dan is a dedicated and loyal player (he only played for one team his entire career) and a man extremely dedicated to his wife and public safety, children. That have now become threats. 

“Sports and politics, with disgrace and without dignity, is the main reason he decided to retire. I am not finished yet. Cops have become threats to some of our most basic constitutional rights. Why don’t you ask Rodney King or Abner Louima about this last statement? Policemen have demonstrated that they do not respect nor acknowledge the importance, significance, and sanctity of the United States Constitution. They spit on and abuse a document that was created by some of America’s most cherished heroes.

Now, if you have read all the sections of this submission, you are probably asking yourself four questions. How is this all connected? What is heroism’s relation to any of this? Why is this meaningful and why should we care? To answer the first question, these incidents are a result of an attitude that has permeated throughout many aspects of our society. This attitude is one that promotes gaining power and wealth at the expense of others. Also, it promotes selfishness, ignorance, and a lack of accountability for our actions. The answer to the second question is that heroism is suppressed by the attitude described in the answer to the first question. Finally, why is this meaningful and in any way significant? It is important because the idea of being a hero, the idea of being a mentor, the idea of just being there for somebody, especially a young person, has almost been suppressed to the point where it is no longer effective or important. It is not that bad. American society still needs heroes and there are plenty of them out there. However, it just does everything in its power to downplay their roles, contributions, and effectiveness. American society thrives on sex, money, and vanity, have failed horribly in their once-viewed roles—the roles of arenas that encouraged, promoted, and developed the values of heroism.

Honor Council to hold forum

We would like to take this opportunity to introduce ourselves to you as your new Chair and Secretary of the Honor Council. One of our major goals is to increase communication between the Honor Council and the college community. The past few weeks are indicative of this need for more dialogue, and we appreciate the student comments and criticisms recently expressed in Davidsonian submissions. While we disagree with much of the misinformed commentary, we view these pieces as a wake-up call and realize that it is our responsibility to better educate the student body. We support the Davidsonian’s viewpoint in their April 6th editorial “Defending the Code.” But not every matter can be addressed in one article. In an effort to carry this welcomed dialogue to the next level, a forum is in the works for early May. We want to personally invite everyone to come ready to participate in this open discussion. Of course, you’ve all read your Red Book from cover to cover, but looking over it before the forum would be beneficial. Look for publicity after Easter break. The Honor Code is the backbone of our college. Everyone should have a comfortable understanding of it, and the Honor Council can help make this happen. Please feel free to contact us with your questions and concerns, as we are here to serve you.

Sincerely,
Justin Perkinson, Chair
E-mail: juperkinson
Phone: 987-2125

Lee Ann Petty, Secretary
E-mail: lepetty
Phone: x6110

not to come back this year and play for another team. However, despite all his accolades and despite the fact that he is a wonderful and model human being, he will perhaps only be really remembered because he never won a Super Bowl. Winning is the only thing that matters to American society and Dan Marino’s career is an excellent example of this. Unfortunately, we will only remember that Dan never won a Super Bowl. We will forget the classy player and the great competitor that he was. We will forget the wonderful human being, father, and husband that he was. We will forget that he set the standard for excellence on and off the field. He made the game better and the fans better, and we should all be grateful. However, in accordance with what American society feels is important today, we will indeed forget all these things. We will forget the heroes because supposedly they are not important anymore. Once Americans feel that no greater tragedy can occur, another one does occur and it is even more horrible than the previous ones. Violence, greed, hate, and wealth have put the ideals of values, heroism, and good acts in a coma in our society. I fear that these ideas will never wake up. In light of this statement, all Americans must realize that we still need heroes. The question Americans must then ask themselves is, “Do we want heroes?” We must answer yes.

Tadd Bevan ’02

Current Honor Council members:
Chris Cho
Matt Clifford
Winnie Corrigan
Carter Grant
Paul Gravel
Eric Knoche
Noel McFadden-Gerber
Ksenija Milutinovic
Lauren Schultz
Kirk Willingham
Lydia Wilson
Mike Anderson
Nick Blackwell
Grant Bleecher
Jeff Cone
Carrie Frazier
Elizabeth Marie-Melchionna
Will Parker
Phil Reed
Aditi Sethi
Mary Kathryn White
Shannon-Bishop
Benjamin Ferrell
Hussein Nasreddin