THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spark, from page 5.

cal alliance with Britain and the rest of Europe.
The Cyprus issue is actually a microcosm of the power games between the United States and the EU. Prior to
the end of the Cold War, it was the East-West conflict that the Greek-Cypriots tried to manipulate and exploit according
to their interests.

Now, with the emergence of a new polarity between the United States and the EU, the Greeks are playing their
cards once again and they know that through Cyprus’ acceptance into the EU, there will be no more barriers to
separate them from their supporters. It will also be much easier, then, to manipulate Turkey, knowing its sensitivity towards the
Union.

Is a war possible? Had you asked me that a few years ago, I would have agreed. I am now
more aware, however, of the political games that are played every day and I think that this region is far
too sensitive for any of the world powers to tolerate a war. Had it been in East Timor, Somalia, or
Bangladesh there would be fewer economic interests involved and perhaps I would be more concerned.

Though the political relationship between the Greeks and Turks has always been uneasy, the citizens of both sides claim that
they have no problems at a personal level. If that’s so, let the UN forego its usual rigid, formal, and
manipulative style and address the issue on a more personal footing.

Let’s focus on the education systems and family attitudes of both sides, and let us destroy the seeds of prejudice.
Let respect, recognition, empathy, compromises, amnesia of the past, and most important of all, trust enter the scene and let
people work together.

If that too fails, then mothers can truly say good-bye to a peaceful society. Not through the existence of war,
but through the extinction of decent values.

The author is a sophomore, Political Science major from Istanbul, Turkey.

Personal experience fuels drunk driving talk

JORDON STEELE
Staff Writer

Emphasizing “responsible choices,” private investigator Dale Pleasant addressed a packed crowd of new fraternity/eating-house members in the 900 Room last
Wednesday.

Davidson Health Educator Georgia Ringle hosted the event, which featured Pleasant and his fiancée, Sally Morehead, who is also a
private investigator. Pleasant opened the evening by introducing some harrowing statistics related to drunk driving. He spoke about two North
Carolina teenagers that are currently serving life terms in prison for killing another person while driving under the influence.

On New Year’s Eve, Pleasant noted, the total number of drunken driving fatalities in the United States surpassed the number
of American citizens killed by foreign adversaries throughout this nation’s history.

“College students spend more money on alcohol than they spend on every scholarship, fellowship, and library in America,” Pleasant said.
The investigator and activist further noted that one out of every ten college students will fail to graduate because of
an alcohol or drug problem.

Late in the evening, Pleasant discussed the motivation behind his personal campaign.

He described the events of July 4, 1992, when his daughter Angie was killed in an alcohol-related jet-skiing accident. Angie
was 19 years old and had just finished her freshman year at Arizona State University.

Eric, the young man who crashed into Angie, was also drunk. Eric was on a full scholarship studying to be
an engineer, but his college career plummeted after the accident. He took a year off school, underwent severe psychotherapy, and
stumbled through his classes with C’s and D’s. “I think we lost two lives that day,” said Pleasant.

When Pleasant asked the audience how many of them had lost a loved one due to a drunk driving accident,
over ten students out of almost 300 raised their hands. Pleasant had no remark with which to follow; the hands
spoke for themselves.

Pleasant ended the evening by inviting the audience to make a “personal commitment” not to drive drunk or allow friends
to do so. “If you decide to drink, do so responsibly,” he begged. “If you decide to take drugs, do
so responsibly.”

FC~COMMUNICATIONS.

SERVING NORTH MECK & SOUTH IREDELL SINCE 1997

COMPUTER SALES, SERVICE, SUPPLIES, TRAINING, INTERNET SERVICES, DIGITAL CAMERAS, SATELLITE TV SYSTEMS, HOME/SMALL OFFICE NETWORKING

WE COME TO YOU!

FREE IN-HOME/OFFICE CONSULTATIONS, FREE DELIVERY, FREE SYSTEM SETUP ON ALL SYSTEMS! GUARANTEED LOW PRICES!

CALL US AT

(704) 662-6650

OR VISIT OUR WEB PORTAL AT:

WWW.HANDTECH.COM/FCCOM EMAIL: FCCOM@HANDTECH.COM

If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a freshman or sophomore, you can still catch up to your classmates
by attending Army ROTC Camp Challenge, a paid six-week summer course in leadership training.

SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP.

By the time you have graduated from college, you'll have the credentials of an Army officer. You'll also have the
self-confidence and discipline it takes to succeed in college and beyond.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

For details visit our office at Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165. Two and three year scholarship opportunities available.
