THE DAVIDSONIAN

Last week’s package of disorganized newsprint brought us a whole lot of words, and one personal opinion worth examining. “Sketchy”
by Thomas related the personal experiences of a student whose friend underwent and suffered the results of a scholastic honor
code trial. That’s tough. I don’t know the details of this particular instance, but, though I empathize with your concern
about subjectivity within the process, it is a necessary evil for maintaining a trustworthy academic system. What I find “sketchy”
about the honor code is not its academic rigor, but how it extends away from academia and presumes to apply
to activities, social life, and instances of true crime. There were some mediocre points made in the last edition about
the competence of a student and faculty judicial body, but the underlying problem with the system is that their legitimate
jurisdiction is questionable. What right does such a judicial body have to decide justice in a matter of sexual assault
or non-sexual assault, the two touchy issues of Powell’s history? Is Davidson College acknowledged as a state or nation by
which it has authority over economic, civil, and criminal proceedings? I think the problem with the honor code lies not
in being too hard or soft, but in that it lulls the student body into assuming the authority of rules
of conduct that have questionable basis. It assumes a system of “ladies and gentlemen,” a community where affairs should be
kept within the limits of the campus. And that seems fine and good for petty things, alcohol violations and such,
but when you run into items like rape, assault, larceny, and vandalism, true criminal procedures, economic fines, and incarceration seem
more applicable. Davidson College just hasn’t the jurisdiction nor the facilities to adequately lock people away. In reference to the
Powell affair, or affairs, I think that if charges had been brought against the defendant in a civil court, the
present situation would be much more amicable to the Davidson community. That seems to be the place most suited for
the charges. As it is now, I totally trust the subjective decisions of the school’s numerous judicial boards and review
boards, but I don’t know if I would agree that they have any real authority. And they don’t have the
unlimited money to fight the real courts whenever the student’s parents fight their decision. Thus, I would say, rewrite our
little honor jurisdiction code and yield what little criminal authority it purports to have back to recognized civil courts. If
you see a crime committed or have one committed against you, don’t assume that the criminals are honor-bound or will
approach you and apologize. They are not and they will not. You, personally, need to contact the police or a
lawyer. Perhaps the only benefit of Powell’s affair is that it brings to light the deficiency in the system. It
can’t handle true wrongdoings, whether misdemeanors or felonies. And it emphasizes the need to pull Davidson’s head from the clouds
and get some real law enforcement.

Michael Gillespie ’00

---

Over spring break I went home to the safe confines of Pittsburgh, Penn., home of the worst English grammar in
the United States (yes, it really is that bad). While at home I visited with my family, of course, and
visited some old friends. One person I usually see is my barber, Hal, who has been cutting my hair for
about five years. I love sitting with Hal and talking about anything and everything. Our topics usually range from sports
to school to politics and so on. This particular visit we started discussing the trials and tribulations of Darryl Strawberry,
who is perhaps the most stupid and unfortunately most redeemed major league baseball player of all time. Strawberry conveniently chooses
to fail a drug test in the wake of major league baseball’s deliberations on the John Rocker incident. John Rocker
opened the door for baseball to rightfully stress that major league players do have a responsibility to the public when
it comes to their words and actions. In the aftermath of such a debacle, Strawberry performs a very irresponsible act
at a very bad time. He fails a drug test. What makes him look even more irresponsible is that it
was not the first time that it has happened. Strawberry has failed before and been redeemed before. Now, it is
time for Strawberry to pay severely. A lifetime ban is the correct punishment for a man who has been given
enough chances to deal with his drug problems. After discussing this latest “mistake” by a professional athlete, Hal said something
that inspired me to write this article. In reference to the numerous run-ins with the law involving professional athletes, he
stated, “...it makes you wonder where all the heroes have gone.” So, where have all the heroes gone? An excessive
desire for prestige, an unprecedented avarice, ignorance, and simple lack of accountability for our actions, has destroyed what once were
hotbeds of heroism. Darryl Strawberry is by no means the first athlete to act irresponsibly. He is one of hundreds.
Others include Rae Carruth, the professional football player awaiting trial on murder charges. Violence and irresponsibility are not the only
factors that have devalued professional athletes. Money, fame, and selfishness are factors that have also played a role. Today, no
player remains loyal to a single team. The only thing they remain loyal to is money...and lots of it. There
is no more “team” in professional sports. It is all about “me, me, me!” Could you imagine getting eleven million
dollars for signing your final exam envelope here at Davidson? I bet that would probably...make you take more than four
exams. However, remember that for some players, even an eleven million dollar signing bonus is unsatisfactory. It is always about
more. What is even more disturbing is the trickle-down effect of the importance of materialism and the need to be
arrogant through the college, high school, and younger ranks. High schools are recruiting kids for quote “academic” purposes when it
is obvious they are not. For example, current professional basketball player Danny Forston played basketball for a high school located
close to mine. However, he did not originally attend that school. He switched schools, and the body that governs Pennsylvania
high school athletics did the right thing—they suspended him for an entire playing season. The corruption and moral debasement go
below the high school ranks. Starting in youth leagues, parents realize the money and fame that exist out there for
star athletes. Parents devote their whole lives to pushing and forcing their child to become a star. In some cases,
they are successful. In most cases, they ruin their son or daughter’s love for the sport and their relationship with
their child. Too many parents today only care about making sure their kids get athletic scholarships. Too few parents care
about teaching their children the right lessons. Suspensions have almost become weekly business for the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA),
college sport’s governing body. There is no doubt that some of the complaints brought by coaches and players are justified.
Some rules set by the NCAA are too picky and injurious to players. However, it should not be the responsibility
of the NCAA to protect college and high school athletes from sports agents. If these so-called “stars of the future”
want to play big-time college and then big-time professional basketball, then they better be ready to act like adults and
be accountable for their actions. These athletes just need to use some common sense. Sure, they are still young and
need some guidance, but if they want to be big-time, they need to act big-time. Acting big-time means being a
leader, being a role model, and being able to account for your words and actions. It means acting like and
being a hero.

Tadd Bevan ’02

The Ticker

Say - “Study: Link Between Alcohol and Promiscuity,” “Most in Pain,” and, my current favorite, “TV Ad Roach Frightens Viewers.”
These are all headlines I have read lately on what has become both the bane of my being and the
source of my enlightenment: the AOL News Ticker. This ingenious little device floats across the top of my computer screen
without cessation giving me such important information as “Mori Becomes Japan’s Prime Minister,” and “’Jaws’ Author Teams With Sharks.” Hmmmm...
What does one have to do with the other? For those of you that think that Hashimoto should have been
Prime Minister, you obviously need to do a little research about Japanese politics. However, I would hope that most of
you actually have a problem with the fact that the change of power in the world’s second-largest economic power is
given the same stature as the fact that the author of a book about sharks has something to do with...
well... sharks.

Matt, from Tallahassee, Fla., wrote to Orkin, saying he had just stepped from the shower when he saw the roach
on his TV set. “I immediately snatched my towel off and proceeded to snap the roach with the towel,” he
wrote. “He did not die or even get knocked off the TV. I thought it was Super Roach or something.
Then to realize that it was just a commercial, well, I felt dumb.” Well, Matt, your feeling of dumbness was
quite well-founded. But, my problem is that I am not sure who is dumber, you or me. While you attacked
a roach on your TV, I took the time to click on the link and read the article about you
attacking a roach on your TV. And I can’t stop clicking!

“...all along I thought that all of those random hook-ups at and after Court parties were merely a result of
the subliminal messages in the music telling us to go back to our rooms, lock out our roommates and make
whoopee like rabbits! Furthermore, my newfound knowledge that most Americans live in pain has changed my whole way of life.
I had always thought that when I stubbed my toes, when I hit my head against walls, and when I
jumped out of the fourth floor of a building, my pain was unusual and limited solely to me. But, to
know that other humans experience pain, I now have a new outlook on life. The thrill of it! Also of
mention is the fact that there is a definitive and scientific link between promiscuity and alcohol! Aren’t you amazed and
astounded? I sure am. I mean, just the idea that there could be some connection... Wow! And all along I
thought that all of those random hook-ups at and after Court parties were merely a result of the subliminal messages
in the music telling us to go back to our rooms, lock out our roommates and make whoopee like rabbits!
But, I digress. There is too much information and too little intelligence in the world! I need to work and
read and do something constructive. Hmmm... “Cage-Arquette On Again,” maybe not.

Note: Andrew was not able to deactivate the AOL Ticker. After learning of the “on-again, off-again” relationship between Nicholas Cage
and Patricia Arquette, he was forced to read about how Oklahoma has decided, “that human life was created by one
God of the universe,” but that must wait for another article, another rant, and another rave.

Andrew MacDonald ’03
