‘Davidson COLLEGE VOLUME 92, NUMBER 11

SGA to gauge interest in campus-wide community hour

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

In an effort to re-ignite the stalled debate over a so-called “community hour,” SGA President Dane Erickson called upon the
Senate’s Polling & Response Committee Tuesday night to gauge student support for the proposal. At Tuesday night’s senate meeting, Erickson
announced he would ask Polling & Response committee chair Cader Howard—a junior psychology major—to measure student support for the idea
through a web-based survey. Somewhere around 75 students will be randomly invited to partake in the survey (through an email
solicitation guiding them to a website), that will follow a similar format to Howard’s poll on smoking in the residence
halls last spring. Polling is expected to begin later this week and continue through Tuesday.

The anticipated “community hour”—a block of time built into the weekly schedule where no academic, athletic, or organizational activities may
be scheduled—was first proposed almost 18 months ago at a meeting of the Council on Campus & Religious Life (CCRL).
Supporters envision an hour blocked out of the campus schedule, perhaps once or twice a week. The “free hour” would
enable faculty, staff, and students to congregate at major presentations, hold town hall-style meetings, chat over coffee, or simply take
an hour for relaxation and reflection.

On November 17, 1999, the CCRL readdressed the topic and unanimously voted to send an affirmative recommendation of the see
Community, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Was Einstein right?
He was one of the greatest thinkers in history, and although he has been dead more than 40 years, interest
in the life and work of Albert Einstein is still very high.
News page 2

Election 2000 at Davidson
Students react to the controversial presidential elections. What went right, what went wrong, and who is responsible?
News page 7

Dance ensemble
In watching dance, we watch ourselves observing and thinking about ourselves and the world. Dance does not simply represent these
actions - it is these actions.
Arts & Living page 8

The invisible poor
The plight of the impoverished continues to be overlooked in America.
Perspectives page 11

The football team places its possible undefeated season on the line Saturday against the Georgetown Hoyas. A win would extend
the Wildcats’ winning streak to seventeen games, the longest in school history. The Davidson community is encouraged to come and
support the team for this historic game.
Preview, page 16.

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

International students ask college for Outpost.

In a bid to increase its presence on campus, the Davidson International Association (DIA) hopes to gain use of the
Union Outpost building next year.

To that end, DIA has circulated a petition to present to the Committee on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), an
advisory body for the Office of the President. If the CCRL approves DIA’s request, the Outpost will become the student
organization’s official home. DIA president Shalini Unnikrishnan ’01 said that student response to the petition has been “incredible.” She explained
that the possibility of requesting a house for DIA (formerly the International Student Association—ISA) has been in conversation for several
years. “The idea has been around for two or three years, but nobody did anything about it. This year we
decided to give it a full-fledged push,” she remarked. Once it became clear that the Outpost would be available, the
decision to move forward was obvious.

DIA began the petition effort by circulating emails to everyone on their mailing list. Members forwarded copies to their friends
as well. Those receiving an email were encouraged simply to reply, and a DIA member, petition in hand, would come
and get the signature from the respondent. Unnikrishnan expressedSurprise at the strong show of support for DIA’s plans. “We knew
there were a lot of people interested, but not this many,” she admitted. DIA social chair Nidhi Paul ’03 added,
“It’s amazing! Even now there are more and more emails pouring in.” This particular episode is one instance of the
discussion surrounding the fate of the Outpost. One possible plan, according to Dean of Students Tom Shandley, is to leave
the building open for campus groups to reserve. DIA hopes to convince the administration otherwise. They noted that the Black
Student Coalition, ASIA 3D, and OLAS have all extended support as groups for giving the building to DIA. Patterson Court
Council has also offered conditional support for DIA, although the Council has indicated that it feels a responsibility to support
other PCC organizations should they try to acquire the Outpost. By contrast, some students feel that the Outpost itself should
remain unaffiliated with any organization. Union Board Outpost chair Alexis Boehmler ‘02 expressed displeasure at the prospect of DIA gaining
the facility. “I don’t know what I think should go into the Outpost next, but I hope that somehow it
will continue to be a neutral place on campus,” she commented. “If DIA takes over the Outpost, many [students] will
lose the closest thing they have to that right now.” Having a permanent “base of operations” on campus would address
several issues important to DIA, according to Unnikrishnan. She emphasized that DIA would remain first and foremost an “open house.”
“Our biggest hurdle has been breaking the stereotype of DIA as ‘for internationals only,’” remarked the group’s president. “That’s why
we changed the name from the International Student Association to the Davidson International Association.” She emphasized that the group is
“a place for anyone on campus who has interest in international awareness to identify with.” Both Unnikrishnan and Paul professed
the

see DIA, page 2

Comparison shows Little on par with peers

Library scores above average in most categories but leaves room for improvement

By Lindy Baldwin
Staff Writer

To many Davidson students, the lime-green carpeting of Little Library is as familiar as their dorm rooms. Pulling an all-nighter
in the library’s 24-hour room is a common occurrence; many students spend weekends in the stacks, researching for term papers
and tests. Given the library’s very prominent role in college life, many feel it is important for the school’s collections
of books, periodicals, videos, and electronic information to keep pace with comparable institutions. But recent figures suggest that — on
the surface, at least — Davidson’s library resources aren’t up to par with other top liberal arts colleges. When compared
to the colleges ranked in the Top 10 by US News and World Report (Davidson was No. 11), the school
falls below comparable institutions in the category of number of volumes in the library. Davidson’s libraries house 570,000 volumes. Colleges
such as Swarthmore, Williams, and Wellesley boast over 700,000 volumes each. Others, such as Amherst and Bowdoin, approach 1 million
volumes. However, library director Leland Park said this simple statistic can be misleading, saying that the number of volumes in
a library’s collection is not the same as the number of titles. For example, five copies of Webster’s dictionary will
be counted as 5 volumes, but 1 title. Davidson’s 500,000 bibliographic entries are about average — they fall short of
colleges such as Williams and Wesleyan, but exceed both Haverford and Bowdoin. Park says such statistics indicate that Davidson is
doing “quite well” in comparison with other top-ranked liberal arts institutions, and even better when compared with a broader group
of over 70 respected undergraduate colleges. (See Statistics box below.)

see Library, page 6

1 News
2 Briefly
8 Arts & Living
10 Perspectives
12 Sports
