2 The Davidsonian | NEWS. Thursday, April 20, 2000

Performing Shakespeare Stages a Success
By Seth Davis
News Editor

Call it another success for the Performing Shakespeare seminar, because that’s exactly what it was. This year’s production was Romeo and Juliet—Trey Davis and Jennifer Carlyle portrayed the two young lovers. The students in Dr. Cynthia Lewis’s seminar worked throughout the semester to prepare the production. They played the roles, prepared the set, and made the costumes, as a troupe in Shakespearean England would have done. Dr. Lewis acted as teacher, advisor, and director during the process. Performing Shakespeare has a tradition at Davidson, which Dr. Lewis began in hopes of enabling her students to gain new insights into the works of the playwright.

Carlyle, complete with wig, played a Juliet who matures as the play progresses. Her Juliet began as a girl ready to please her mother and giddy at the prospect of marriage. By the play’s conclusion, Carlyle’s Juliet had become an independent self, defiant of her parents. Carlyle portrayed this evolution with deftness. She was able, for example, to communicate to the audience all the ironic undertones and linguistic wit of Juliet’s speech to her mother after Tybalt’s death. Davis was particularly convincing as the starry-eyed Romeo of the first half of the play. Like Carlyle, Davis was also able to...

International

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

Developing Countries: Representatives from 133 developing countries met in Havana, Cuba for a summit on development issues. Included in the itinerary was a speech by Fidel Castro, in which he exhorted these countries to stand up to the developed world.

Korea: Kim Jong Il, agreed to meet President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea in June. The meeting will take place in Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea.

Jiang Zemin: The President of China paid the first visit by a Chinese head of state to Israel. Despite US objections, Israel announced that it would go ahead with a deal to supply China with an advanced early-warning radar plane.

Costas Simitis: The incumbent prime minister of Greece’s party, The Panhellenic Socialist Movement, narrowly won the general election, beating the New Democracy party by a single percentage point.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Hansie Cronje: In a confession that took the cricketing world by storm, the captain of South Africa’s cricket team admitted to having accepted money from an Indian bookmaker to forecast the result of a match in which he was soon to play. He was sacked as captain and dropped from the team on the verge of an important series against world champions, Australia.

Philippines: More than 100,000 people have fled their homes in the southern Philippines to escape fighting between government forces and Islamic separatists. Two rebel groups in the mostly Roman Catholic country are fighting for the creation of a separate Islamic state.

Afghanistan: The United Nations Human Rights Commission published a report condemning the present status of women in the country. The report claimed that the situation “shocks the conscience of mankind.”

Asia3D Aims for Diversity and Inclusion
By Seth Davis
News Editor

The newly-formed Asia3D organization has a long-term view on diversity at Davidson. “If you look at the bigger picture, we are using this organization to liberate the lives of students here at Davidson,” says Hun Chor Shin, president of Asia3D (Association of Students Interested in Asia and Asian America at Davidson). “Our membership policies are open. We’re inclusive,” says Shuhei Matsuo, Asia3D’s vice president. Matsuo points out that fully half of Asia3D’s membership hails from non-Asian descent. “We’re actually one of the most diverse student organizations in terms of membership. There are African-Americans, Latin Americans, Asians, and Caucasians in Asia3D. There are freshmen, sophomores, and juniors in the organization. We want to draw membership from everyone,” says Shin.

The organization’s members hope that Asia3D can fill both a social and cultural role at Davidson. On one hand, Asia3D is a social group designed to bring together members from all parts of the Davidson community. But the...The group has an educational flair, hoping to bring speakers to campus and host cultural events intended to promote awareness of Asia and Asian America in the community. “We hope that everyone in the Davidson community will benefit from this organization’s presence,” says Matsuo. Shin agrees and adds that the group’s diversity will contribute to that goal. The organization began meeting this semester after receiving a charter from SGA. At present, there are 42 members in Asia3D.

At present, Asia3D plans to hold two events before the semester ends. The first of these events will be a forum intended to introduce Asia3D to the campus and to examine the question: “What does it mean to be Asian?” The second event will be a social event, in which members and interested students can come together. Both Shin and Matsuo believe that Asia3D has a unique and important role on campus. They also plan to engage other student organizations on campus in order to promote diversity and inclusiveness at Davidson. “We have fun and cultural activities planned. But, ultimately, we want to contribute to the creation of the great American pie,” says Shin.

Davis convincingly performed the change in Romeo that occurs as the play unravels itself into tragedy. His Romeo was so eminently likable in the first half of the play—he was romantic, poetic, and philosophical. But after Mercutio’s (Justin Perkinson) death, Davis’s Romeo became wildly passionate. At the same time, Davis was able to raise Romeo’s death up to the tragic pitch.

As so often happens in productions of Romeo and Juliet, Mercutio threatened to steal the play away from the two lovers and make it a comic romp through an endless litany of sexual innuendo and comedy. Before Mercutio’s death in Act III, Scene 1, Perkinson played the ribald character as he was meant to be played. While Davis spoke convincing and beautiful lines of poetry as Romeo, Perkinson’s Mercutio danced about, playing to and with the audience. While Mercutio danced, fought, and pelvic-thrusted his way around the play, Maurie Ponder’s Nurse was another kind of comic force. Ponder was able to effectively convey the Nurse’s love for Juliet. True to the play, Ponder’s Nurse was an almost constant source of comic relief. Ponder’s bubbly, vivacious, and heartfelt character was both comic (as it was intended) and deeply caring.

Chase Brindgardner’s Friar Lawrence, like Ponder’s Nurse, was also a force for comedy in the play. At the same time, it is Friar Lawrence’s plan that unravels, leading to the tragedy. Brindgardner was able to portray the Friar both as a comic figure and, in the tragedy’s end, as a pathetic figure. Lindsay Hughes’s Lady Capulet, in contrast to the Nurse, was poignantly distant and uncaring, even at times cruel to Juliet. Tim Laramy’s Lord Capulet was fierce. His portrayal of Capulet’s capacity for rage was particularly convincing. Audience members in the front row sank back from the figure of Laramy standing over the kneeling Juliet, his hand poised as if to strike, his voice sharp and stabbing. As the scene closed, one of the audience members remarked loudly as a kind of anti-climax, “Man, he is angry.” Yes, he was. Similarly, Travis Martz portrayed a bitter, angry Tybalt. Martz delivered the fiery character’s lines as if each was an angry exhortation.

The Performing Shakespeare seminar stayed faithful to Shakespeare’s text, including every line. The resulting production displayed the comic and tragic force of Romeo and Juliet.

FENNEC science grand canyon sea of cortez Sonoran desert biosphere laboratory CENTER Enroll Now! Earth Semester or Universe Semester September - December 2000 Four Summer Programs Offered A total immersion experience: Environmental science in Arizona 16 Ivy League credits - Financial aid available www.bio2.edu - 800-992-4603 - email: arizona@bio2.edu

Bolivia: In the country’s third largest city, Cochabamba, President Hugo Banzer declared a state of emergency, sending police with tear gas and rubber bullets to try to quell demonstrators who hurled rocks and gasoline bombs at them. The government’s move came after a week of protests over rising water rates, unemployment, and other economic difficulties plaguing the nation.