JENN. HIGGINS Staff Writer

The last game of the 1999 season found the Wildcats competing against Furman for the Southern Conference Tournament championship and an NCAA tournament berth. The pivotal last game ended in a 2-1 overtime loss. And the season ended in the graduation of eight key players. Beginning the year with the signing of 11 talented freshmen by head coach Kevin Hundley, this Davidson team looks toward a bright future and a promising 2000 season in the Southern Conference.

On Saturday evening, the Wildcat women’s soccer team faced High Point University in its season opener in Richardson Stadium. Four hundred and eight people were on hand to watch as the Wildcats defeated the Panthers 4-0 in regulation time. This crowd got a taste of the future of Davidson women’s soccer. Of the eleven freshmen on Hundley’s roster, nine saw action in the first game of the 2000 season.

Freshman Leigh Anne Hoskins got her first collegiate start and the first goal of the season for the Wildcats. A long ball, from another freshman starter Amy Leitch, to the quick feet of sophomore midfielder Heather Maloney was only a hint of the exhibition of skill to follow. Along the left wing, Maloney gathered the ball to send a cross far-post where Hoskins was waiting in mid-air to head the ball past the outstretched gloves of Panther goalkeeper Cindy Watts. And at 14 minutes and 45 seconds into the season opener, the youth and experience of the Wildcat team had plenty more to present to the excited home crowd.

Twelve minutes later, goal number two for the Wildcats showcased the quick feet and aggressive defensive skill of another freshman, Deneille Erikson. The midfielder Erikson dazzled with her fancy footwork, blowing by two High Point midfielders to pass the ball down the sideline into space where Heather Maloney was waiting to make her move. Erikson’s pass caught the Panther defense off-guard creating a daunting one-on-one matchup between Maloney and the goalkeeper. With two defenders nipping at her heels, Maloney placed her shot neatly between the diving goalkeeper and the near goalpost.

Junior forward Natalie Cox created the opportunity for the Wildcats’ third goal of the evening. After battling to break free from a High Point defender in the penalty box during the 33rd minute, the play resulted in a foul called against High Point. A penalty kick was awarded for Davidson to be taken by sophomore Mary Ellen Schaefer. Schaefer found the back of the net to bring the Wildcats to a 3-0 lead closing out the first half.

The second half featured the tenacity of freshmen like Alia Antonucci-Alter and Catie Williams and the persistence of players like sophomore Lauren Dennis and junior Penn Graves. Sophomore Heather Maloney doesn’t hesitate to quickly point out the young team’s ability to come together for an excellent first showing. “It was definitely a team effort,” says Maloney, “with so many people coming off the bench and contributing to the win.”

The only goal of the half was scored off of a corner kick taken by sophomore Tara Maloney in the 54th minute. Mary Ellen Schaefer connected on a header which was gathered by a nearby Heather Maloney, who promptly placed the ball past the off-balance Watts and into the goal. The Wildcat defense was anchored by the stellar performance of sophomore sweeper Amy Johnston and goalkeepers Winnie Corrigan ‘01 and Sarah Henry ‘03. Johnston, who saw action in center midfield last season, wasMoved into the sweeper position following the graduation of two key players, her vocal direction of the defense along with her speed and footwork will prove to be a valuable asset to the Wildcat defense this season. Johnston credits her smooth transition to her new position on defense to the team’s senior co-captains. “Winnie [Corrigan] and Sarah [Falconi] have really helped to orient us all. Their senior leadership has been crucial to our development so far in the pre-season.” Under the tutelage of Corrigan and Falconi in back, Johnston looks to gain valuable experience which should help her lead this young Wildcat team in the future.

With the graduation of eight key players in the Davidson lineup, the 2000 season would on the surface appear to be a season of rebuilding. Instead, Hundley has simply reloaded with a solid team of 26 talented women who are the future of Davidson women’s soccer. Senior All-Southern Conference goalkeeper Corrigan comments, “I think we are a really deep team. All of the freshmen are capable of performing at the highest levels of play. And I’m very excited about the great new dynamic they bring to the team.”

Coming off of a season where the team composed an 8-1 record in the Southern Conference (13-8-2 overall), the Wildcats have been ranked in the pre-season poll to finish second in the SoCon for this season. Yet after Saturday night’s opener in Richardson Stadium against the Panthers of High Point University, the SoCon poll may even be underestimating this young Davidson team. The Wildcats face another Big South opponent, UNC-Asheville, on Wednesday, August 30th at 7:00 pm in Richardson Stadium.

Field Hockey begins play in NorPac Conference

MIKE ANDERSON - Staff Writer

Marking the program’s first-ever conference games, the Wildcat field hockey squad split a pair of season-opening contests against Stanford and St. Louis University this past weekend. “The weekend went really well,” said senior Lea Jaeger. “It’s exciting to be a part of a conference after all these years.”

Davidson clawed past St. Louis University 2-1 on Saturday, claiming their first victory as a member of NorPac, a Division-I coast-to-coast field hockey conference. St. Louis’ Lindsey Lombardo drew first blood with 25:10 remaining in the first half, but Agnes Bateman and Lea Jaeger answered quickly, netting goals just one minute apart to claim a 2-1 lead. Davidson dominated its first conference game after 25 years of independent status, outshooting the Billikens 19-5 and earning 13 penalty corners. “We came out strong against SLU,” said Jaeger. “We weren’t intimidated at all by them.”

Sunday, though, saw the Wildcats’ record even to 1-1 with a 2-0 loss at the hands of the Stanford Cardinal. Amanda Billenger gave Stanford a 1-0 lead with a goal at the 29:22 mark of the first half. Davidson was unable to equalize, and Stanford added another goal with under a minute to play after the ’Cats strategically pulled goaltender Amanda Mordavsky to add another positional player.

The Stanford contest saw two pairs of high school teammates reunited: Davidson freshman Whitney Vogler and Stanford’s Vicki Ward, both from Lake Forest High School near Chicago; as well as Wildcat Christina Auer and Cardinal Christina Williams, who each played high school hockey for Columbus Academy in Ohio.

Davidson treks north to Williamsburg, Virginia this weekend for contests against William & Mary and American University.

Agnes Bateman (top) and Lea Jaeger scored the goals in the Wildcats’ 2-1 win over St. Louis. 

Mike Anderson