THE DAVIDSONIAN News _ THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

International

By Asli KINoGLu

The existing conflict in Cyprus between the Greek and Turkish parts of the island has a complex history. The root
of the trouble in Cyprus isn’t the 1974 invasion that the Greek Cypriots claim resulted in the ethnic cleansing of
their people. It goes back much farther than just the last twenty-six years. As previously mentioned in the article “The
Sparks That Keep the Turkey-Greece Fire Blazing,” until 1960 Cyprus was administered by British colonialists. The exit of the British
saw the formation of a bi-communal state with a political partnership between the two nations. This result was unlawfully protested
by the Greek-Cypriots since their aim was total “annexation of Cyprus to Greece (ENOSIS).” In the process, despite UN efforts
to mediate, the Turkish-Cypriot members of the joint parliament were expelled from office and the people forced to flee their
homes. The UN peacekeeping force was unable to protect the Turkish-Cypriots against the Greeks — at which point Turkey intervened.

Regarding the intervention in 1974, “Was Turkey right and the rest of Europe wrong?” as was implied by “A Homeland
is Heart.” Maybe so! Since when are truths regarding world politics determined by a simple mathematical majority of those for
and against them? A simple example to illustrate this point: when the world, including the UN, simply ignored the genocide
that took place in Rwanda in 1994 and did nothing to stop that humanitarian crisis, were the victims of this
violence wrong and the rest of the world right? Of course not! The issue goes much deeper and is certainly
more complex than that.

The policies of the Greek-Cypriots — described by the UN secretary-general as “a veritable siege” — resulted in the Turkish
inhabitants being scattered in various isolated parts of the island from 1964 up to 1974, with no representation of the
“joint” government that the 1960 Treaties required. Furthermore, during that ten-year period, 117 mosques were destroyed with the goal of
abolishing all Turkish landmarks. Even though they were truly hostages in their own land, the international community ignored the Turkish-Cypriots’
pleas for protection for eleven years. Therefore, especially after the Greek coup on 15 July 1974, the aim of which
was achieving ENOSIS, Turkey had no choice but to intervene.

Another allegation was that Turkey failed to bring a better living for the Turkish Cypriot side in grants and loans
without any demand for repayment. That is a considerable contribution since Turkey itself has more than $93.4 billion of external
debt. Even though helping out Cyprus was, at times, a huge burden on the Turkish economy, the government never ceased
the flow of aid to the junior country. Why? Because Turkey did care. Turkey has a 10% unemployment rate today
versus the 6.4% in Northern Cyprus that it has helped to maintain if not decrease. No one in his right
mind could call that “failing to bring a better living for the Turkish Cypriots.”

“How brutal are the Turks if the entire Balkan Peninsula, which had been under Ottoman control for five centuries, still
remains predominantly Christian?”option but to intervene to protect its own people. “How much interest did Turkey have in the Turkish
Cypriots?” Quite a lot, one would guess, otherwise why would they go into Cyprus in the first place? If they
had territorial ambitions, the Turkish troops wouldn’t have stopped after having invaded only 40% of Cyprus. They would have gone
all the way since they certainly had the means to. Yet, they didn’t because their aim was to secure and
protect the Turkish-Cypriots’ rights and not to take over the island. Between 1990-97 alone, Turkey provided $700 million dollars of
economic aid to the key threatened to march into Damascus if “Syria continued supporting the Kurdish population.” It is not
the Kurdish population that is in question, but the Kurdish Workers Party (PKK), a terrorist organization that has brought about
the deaths of more than 30,000 people over the course of the last fourteen years. During this period, it is
a well-known fact that terrorists were trained in camps in Syria and Greece. The Turkish government’s only demand of Syria
was to cease supporting and financing the PKK’s illegal atrocities. If “US and NATO dump billions of dollars into Turkey”
as the latest article “Turkey: The Peacemaker?” claims, how come the Turkish lobby in Washington, DC isn’t ‘as strong as
a Turk’ as the expression goes? Instead, everyone is well aware of a clear and indisputable Greek lobby that prevails.
And if “the Turkish mobs have effectively destroyed the ancient Greek community of Constantinople/Istanbul through mass expulsions and other discriminatory
policies,” why is Istanbul still the heart of the Orthodox Church? How brutal are the Turks if the entire Balkan
Peninsula, which had been under Ottoman control for five centuries, still remains predominantly Christian? Sadly, one cannot help but notice
the difference in attitudes between the authors of the articles on the Cyprus-Turkey conflict in the previous issues of The
Davidsonian. Tek’s article used a moderate approach and mentioned the need for peace between the peoples and a conclusion to
the historical prejudices. However, the Greek-Cypriots’ point of view seems to be an attacking one and is not at all
flexible in its attempts to reach a feasible solution to the conflict. It is indeed quite disappointing to see such
rigidity on the parts of Demosthenous and Sakkalou, their arguments lack any credible basis at times. Recently, with the major
earthquakes that took place in Turkey and in Greece, the citizens of both countries ran to the aid of one
another. There is solidarity between the people! Meanwhile, politics should remain a domain for governments to handle. Hatred and animosity
simply cannot help the situation in any way.

The author is a junior political science major from Istanbul, Turkey.

Did you say FREE PIZZA?!
Sponsored by SGA, RLO and The Annual Fund
The Spring Phonathon
March 14 thru April 6th
To sign up, contact a Mall Counselor or Residence Advisor!
But do it TODAY because you don't want to miss out on FREE PIZZA, GREAT PRIZES and COLD HARD CASH!
