THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
Thursday, April 20, 2000

Former Davidson assistant to head conference

Press Release
Western Carolina University

CULLOWHEE—Steve Shurina, who has spent the past decade as an assistant coach, was named head coach of Western Carolina’s men’s basketball program Thursday by director of athletics Jeff Compher and University chancellor Dr. John W. Bardo.

“We’re very fortunate to have such a strong national interest in our men’s head coaching position,” said Compher. “After an exhaustive search, I have no doubt that we found the best man for the position. He possesses a great knowledge about the Southern Conference and has a burning desire to be here. I’m extremely pleased to have him as a part of the Western Carolina family.”

The 34-year-old Shurina succeeds Phil Hopkins, who posted a career record of 65-76 in five seasons and led the Catamounts to their only Southern Conference championship and NCAA Tournament appearance in 1996. The St. John’s graduate brings a lot of enthusiasm to his new position.

“I want to make Western Carolina the program that everyone wants to model after,” said Shurina during a press conference Friday morning. “The team has a young nucleus of talent returning and has a chance to be a real special group.”

Shurina, who becomes the Catamounts’ 16th head basketball coach, has received a four-year contract with a base salary of $100,000.

“I had the opportunity to observe his competitiveness, knowledge of the game and know how deeply he cares about student-athletes and I’m happy that he has chosen to bring those qualities to Western Carolina,” explained Compher. “I couldn’t be more excited about the future of Catamount basketball under his leadership.”

Last season, Shurina served as an assistant coach at Vanderbilt University. Shurina helped the Commodores to a 19-11 overall record and a National Invitational Tournament (NIT) appearance. He worked extensively with Southeastern Conference Player-of-the-Year Dan Langhi.

“Steve was a tremendous asset to us at Vanderbilt,” stated Commodore head coach Kevin Stallings. “I think that Steve will excel in every facet of the job from administration to recruiting to being an excellent bench coach.”

Prior to his one-year stay in Nashville, Shurina served as an assistant coach at Davidson College for seven years, the last three seasons as Associate Head Coach (1996-99). While at Davidson, the Wildcats captured the 1998 Southern Conference championship, made one NCAA and two NIT tournament appearances. Davidson won 129 games, an average of 18 games per season, during Shurina’s tenure.

“Steve possesses the complete package in terms of work ethic, knowledge and integrity,” said Wildcat head coach Bob McKillop.

He began his coaching career at Brooklyn College, where he received a master’s degree in physical education and sports management in 1992. As a player at St. John’s during the mid-1980s, Shurina went to four NCAA tournaments, including the 1985 Final Four, as the Chris Mullin-led Redmen lost to Georgetown in the national semifinal. He also was a member of St. John’s 1986 Big East championship team and was captain of the 1988 squad as a senior.

“Steve is an excellent basketball coach and a great tactician and technician,” said former St. John’s head coach and Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame member Lou Carnesecca. “I wish my kids would’ve played for him. He knows how to teach the game and get the most out of his players. He’s a coach, I can’t say it any better.”

A 1988 graduate of St. John’s with a Bachelor of Science degree in criminal justice, Shurina was selected to the All-Big East Basketball Academic team in 1987 and ’88. He also received the St. John’s University McSwinney Award, which is presented annually to the senior male student-athlete that best typifies a St. John’s man.

Following graduation, he played professionally for three years in the United States Basketball League (USBL), World Basketball League (WBL) and Continental Basketball Association (CBA). Shurina played under current Milwaukee Bucks head coach George Karl with the Albany Patroons in 1989.

“I’ve always been impressed with his level of confidence,” stated Karl. “Coaching is leadership and Steve is a leader both on and off the court. I think he’ll emerge as a leader in the community as well. That’s just who he is.”

Panthers help defensive backfield with first draft pick

By Burcin Harbin
Sports Editor

CHARLOTTE—Despite talk of trading down from their first pick, the Carolina Panthers kept the No. 23 pick of the NFL Draft and selected Jackson State University cornerback Rashard Anderson as their first pick of the draft.

“If we had gotten a trade whereby the value would have exceeded what we think the value of Anderson is, then we would’ve made the trade,” head coach George Seifert said. “But we didn’t find what we were looking for.”

Instead, the Panthers found their top-rated defensive back prospect still available at the No. 23 pick and leapt at the opportunity.

“He was a top-rated player on our board,” said Seifert. “And all the coaches were red-hot about this guy, so it was a natural choice.”

Anderson’s size (6-foot-2, 204 lbs.) attracted the Panthers, who sought a big defensive back.

Richardson welcomes top picks

By Burcin Harbin
Sports Editor

CHARLOTTE—It was just like freshman orientation. They took a tour of campus and then heard from the dean—Dean Richardson, that is. Less than 24 hours after the Carolina Panthers made them their first three picks of the 2000 NFL Draft, Rashard Anderson, Leander Jordan,and Deon Grant arrived in Charlotte to meet team owner Jerry Richardson, tour Ericsson Stadium, and speak with the media. The defensive back would match up well with the host of big receivers now playing in the league. But what sold the Panthers’ staff on Anderson was his ability to play both the cornerback position and safety. He played both superbly at Jackson State, where he was an All-American first-team selection as a senior cornerback.

“This guy is the epitome of what you look for in a potential cornerback-slash-safety,” Panthers’ Director of Personnel Jack Bushofsky said. “I see an unlimited future for him. He has the ability to play both positions, and he’s an outstanding special teams player.”

Earlier in the week, the Panthers did not attempt to hide their desire to use the draft to improve their defensive backfield, but would not specify exactly which positions they hoped to fill. With Anderson, they filled two. His speed—the Panthers clocked him running the 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds—makes him a very adept cornerback, capable of hanging with even the speediest receivers in man-to-man or bump-and-run coverage.

“He [Richardson] sat us down and let us know that he wanted us to be respectful young men more than anything,” said Deon Grant, the Panthers' second pick of the first round and the 57th pick overall. “He told us the things we need to know to survive off the football field and on the team.”

Grant, a 6-2, 207 lbs. junior free safety at Tennessee, was the second defensive back taken by Carolina in the draft behind Jackson State cornerback Rashard Johnson. With their third pick, the Panthers moved on to address their other area of concern—the offensive line, despite head coach George Seifert’s assertion a few days earlier that the Panthers would look for overall value in a player, not his ability to fill one of the team’s needs.

If Anderson played safety, he would become a double threat—he could drop back and play zone defense or stick on wide receivers in man coverage. “It’s becoming more and more necessary to have at least one safety in your secondary that can come up and play man-to-man coverage on wide receivers,” explained Seifert. “And I believe that’s what we have in this man.”

As for Anderson, he’ll play hard wherever the coaches put him. “Wherever they play me, I’m going to do my best,” said Anderson, a native of Forest, Mississippi. “I’d rather stay at corner. I like that spot a little more because it keeps you on your toes. But if they put me at safety, it wouldn't matter. I'll just take it and run with it and enjoy it. I love both positions.”

Anderson made his first start at cornerback during the 1998 season after playing his first year at Jackson State as a safety. He finished the 1998 campaign with 52 tackles and 11 interceptions. In 1999, he recorded 47 tackles, deflected nine passes, and intercepted three others. But his stats do not completely reflect the force he had become by his senior year, when his presence alone scared most offenses away from his side of the field.

Still, Anderson realizes he has much to learn and looks forward to heeding the advice of current Panthers. “Those guys should help me out a lot,” said Anderson, who has never visited Charlotte. “I’m going to be asking a lot of questions.”

Said Seifert: “We'll work him at the corner position initially and see how he responds to that. There’s no doubt he can play the safety spot, too. We expect him to be an impact player for us in some capacity certainly this season.”

The Panthers believe they were fortunate enough to find both value and utility in Leander Jordan, a 6-3, 333 lbs. offensive guard from the Indiana University of Pennsylvania who has been compared to Dallas Cowboys great Larry Allen. “Some people call me the poor man’s Larry Allen,” said Jordan grinning. “But it really doesn’t matter to me who people compare me to. I’m going to try my best to come out and make a name for myself.”

Actually, Jordan, Grant, and Anderson had all made names for themselves once the news hit the Carolinas Sunday morning that they were the newest Carolina Panthers. And in light of recent off-the-field problems that have plagued several Panthers, the team owner wanted to instill in the new pros what it meant to be a pro. A Super Bowl win topped his agenda, but all three men repeatedly mentioned Richardson’s emphasis on personal character—and how much the Panthers valued that.

“He [Richardson] said he wouldn’t tolerate nonsense from players,” said Jordan. Grant added, “He was straightforward, letting us know what he wanted out of a player and out of a person.”

Most notably, receiver Rae Carruth and running back Fred Lane have been embroiled in off-the-field troubles recently. While Lane and the Panthers are trying to resolve their differences, the team released Carruth in December after he didn’t turn himself in to police on a first-degree murder charge. No doubt, Richardson’s Sunday morning talk to his newest players was a caution that the Panthers would not tolerate any players afflicting the Panthers’ organization and reputation with their personal recklessness.

“What he said really made a lot of sense,” Anderson said. “The team is made up of good people, but mistakes are going to happen. Still, you’ve got to learn from those mistakes and do better the next time.”