The Davisonian

BY ALEXANDRA OBREGON
Staff Writer

In 1946, an eager local high school student dropped by Davidson College to ask Alumni Secretary John L. Payne for a summer job. The young woman was promptly hired, and she soon began work addressing alumni correspondence in the basement of Chambers Building. Her name was Nancy Blackwell, and she has worked on behalf of college alumni continuously for 54 years since that day.

On Saturday, September 23, Davidson will pay tribute to “Mrs. B’s” longstanding commitment to the college and the Alumni Relations Office by dedicating the newly renovated alumni house on Main Street in her name. The ceremony will highlight the college’s annual Homecoming Weekend. It will include testimonials by alumni who have worked closely with Blackwell, and presentation of a scrapbook containing mementos representing what she has shared with alumni and the college. Presidents Emeriti Samuel Spencer and John Kuykendall will be on hand to unveil a portrait of Blackwell, which will hang in permanent display in the Nancy Overcash Blackwell Alumni House.

Born and raised in Davidson, Blackwell became a full-time member of the Alumni Office staff as soon as she graduated from Davidson High School in 1947. Since then, she has continued to work diligently through the tenures of nine alumni directors and five college presidents. Because the alumni office is now located away from the main academic thoroughfare of Chambers Building, fewer students than in the past meet her before receiving their diplomas. Once they have graduated, however, she becomes their main point of contact with the college. As Associate Director of Alumni Relations, Blackwell is the keeper of the “Class Notes” that appear in the “Davidson Journal” alumni magazine. She’s also the friendly face that greets alumni time and again at the alumni house.

Students race to polls, make use

By LINDY BALDWIN
Staff Writer

In their analysis of voting trends and polls, political pundits often cite the widespread statistic that voters between the ages of 18 and 24 are the least likely to make the trip to the polls on Election Day. In the past few years, many programs — most prominently “Rock the Vote” — have tried to turn this trend around. On September 13 and 14, UCA (United Community Action) brought “Rock the Vote” to Davidson’s campus in an effort to help more Davidson students request absentee ballots or in some cases register for the first time.

Jill Neumayer ’01 was instrumental in organizing the event. Neumayer explained UCA wanted to do something to promote campus involvement in the election, since the outcome will likely affect all of Davidson’s service groups whether they tutor at a high school or help run a food bank. Volunteers set up computers in Chambers Gallery and helped guide students through either Election.com or RockTheVote.com. Students could request ballots from their home state in order to vote for governors, congressmen and senators, although some students — namely ones from Wyoming and Wisconsin — weren’t able to utilize the websites due to special state restrictions. Despite the server shutdown Wednesday morning, “Rock the Vote” helped 100 students register or request absentee ballots.Again, as they return for Homecoming and Alumni Weekend, before too long, she can identify most of them by name and year of graduation. “Obviously, hers is the rightful name for this,” said former Alumni Director Brian Tarr. “No one has contributed more to the alumni effort over the years than Nancy Blackwell.”

Tarr initiated the renovation and dedication effort in 1996, when Blackwell celebrated her 50th anniversary with the college. The ceremony on September 23 will bring to a close a four-year effort to honor her hard work, loyalty, and kindness. The college has also established an endowment in Blackwell’s name for maintenance and future renovations to the house. Funds were contributed by alumni eager to honor their longtime friend. Tarr noted, “They were inspired by their affection for Nancy and the fact that Davidson would honor a long-time employee.”

For her part, Blackwell has taken all the sudden attention in stride. She continues to do her work with grace, humility, and no plans of retiring anytime soon. “I’m pleased and honored, but I just do my work like everyone else does,” she said. “I enjoy coming to work every day. I enjoy people and I’m in the perfect place to do it.”

Of high-tech voter registration, Chambers Gallery and many more were referred to the library or the computer labs due to a lack of printers. Neumayer hopes those who registered encouraged friends and roommates to do the same. Jessica Blackburn ’01, a volunteer who worked for the Gore campaign and registered voters this summer, saw Rock the Vote as a natural follow-up. She said sites such as Election.com help busy students and “make it a lot easier to figure out what to do” regarding requests for absentee ballots. Neumayer agreed electronic registration “helps people get connected.”

Eileen Beardsley ’04 was one of the first-time voters who came to Chambers Gallery to request an absentee ballot. She praised “Rock the Vote’s” efforts to inform students of their options. “A lot of people don’t know how to go about registering.” Beardsley is still undecided about how she’ll cast her ballot. “The issues are kind of muddled.” Official online voting is not yet a reality, although Election.com is conducting a mock online election specifically targeted at young voters. Blackburn feels this is just as well. “It seems like online elections would be really open to fraud.” Students who missed “Rock the Vote” can still access Election.com or RockTheVote.com to register or request absentee ballots. “Maybe tonight when everyone’s procrastinating,” Neumayer wished jokingly, “people will go online and register!”

Service project? Cash to get it started.

WHAT IS IT? The Bonner Community Fund is a grant worth up to $4000 designated to help new community service projects get off the ground.

WHAT DO I HAVE TO DO? Pick up a grant application from the Union basement, write up a proposal of how the funds would be used, and you could receive the money you need to get your project running.

HOW MUCH TIME DO I HAVE? Written applications to the fund committee will be due by 5 pm on September 29 in the Union Basement. Contact Isha Ahsan x5015 with questions.