By Susana Rodríguez

In a far, far away land, the mountains rise above the clouds and the Pacific washes the shores. Some have
called it the Land of the Smoking Volcano as ash from an active volcano still descends upon the capital city
of Quito. Others have denoted its Galapagos archipelago as the Enchanted Isles. It is a gorgeous country from the blooming
orchids in vivid hues to the sunlight patchworks drawn on the folds of the Andes; from the wild untamed forests
to the restless waters of the Amazon tributaries.

This is the story of the plight of my people.

In the midst of all this beauty, the harsh realities of life have reared their ugly head. The people of
Ecuador cannot fully appreciate the beauty they are blessed with, as starvation and poverty consume their thoughts.

In the last four years, Ecuador has suffered its worst economic and political crisis of the twentieth century. The control
of the state has changed hands six times, from one political party to another and from one president to the
next. Characterized by corruption and irresponsible decisions, the unstable governments have failed to provide the country with the stability and
security that it so sorely needs.

These years of strife culminated in a mass movement by all sectors that took to the streets on Friday, January
21st. Ecuadorians, tired of false and empty promises and needing food for their children, took to the streets on Friday,
January 21st. Inflation had increased by almost 60% yet salaries remained unchanged. Bankrupt financial institutions were closing their doors. All
economic measures had failed. All hope was lost.

It was time to act. History was on their side.

Having removed a previous president, the demonstrators were aware of their power. Native Ecuadorians from the forests and villages poured
into the capital. Joined by other movements, they overtook the government’s most significant buildings. Supported by the army, a handful
of military and civil leaders proclaimed a triumvirate that would, henceforth, control the country.

As the turbulent day came to a close, three men controlled Ecuador: the chief of the Ministry of Defense, the
director of Conai (the indigenous movement), and the ex-president of the Supreme Court of Justice. The result of the coup
d’état was the abandonment of democracy. Yet, no blood was spilled. The deposed president, Jamil Mahuad, submitted silently, and apparently
asked for political asylum in Chile.

The day was far from over. Three hours later, the proclamation was retracted and vice president Gustavo Noboa was granted
control of the country under constitutional law.

Why had the new leaders mysteriously relinquished their power? Although the government explained it as a conciliatory act to restore
stability, breaking news filtered out to the people. The Ecuadorian government had received a call from the White House. The
United States of America would not support the triumvirate and “requested” a return to democratic control. Uncle Sam had asserted
its unofficial power over a third world country.

Ecuador’s troubles are no longer just an internal matter. The Oracle has spoken and the invisible power ties it has
with Ecuador make its will a reality. External onlookers might see U.S. involvement in my country’s affairs in a positive
light. For Ecuadorians, however, the role of the United States in this situation takes on a different dimension. It weakens
the state’s own power because it must bend to the will of a stronger one. The coup d’état’s conclusion ultimately
was controlled by the American government. Ecuador was left without an option. Though nothing was explicitly stated and no official
demands made, the United States' influence on my country overshadows all decisions.

No leader is allowed to forget that they must first obtain approval from the White House before they can enact
any real change in the country. In this interdependent global community with porous national boundaries, it is not the American
army that bends the will of other nations, but the American economy. By exerting its influence over trade markets, the
United States is pulling the strings that control the lifeblood of my country.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2000

Today, Ecuador has regained some peace and my people are holding their breath to see if it will last. They
are clinging to the dream that in the near future they will be able to regain control of the country.
They hope that sound economic measures will be implemented and that corrupt politicians will be replaced. Therein lies the hope
that Ecuador will be able to control its own destiny and not submit to a stronger power. Only then will
the rest of the world be able to see what the land has to offer.

The author is a freshman from Quito, Ecuador.

---

ALL DESTINATIONS
EARN CASH & FREE TRIPS:

SALES REPS & STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS WANTED

Best Prices, Hotels, Discounts, & Biggest Parties!
BROWSE THE WEB inter-campus.com

For Details & Reservations Call

INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS @ 1-800-327-6013

---

Personalized attention. Not just from your mentor, but from everybody at CGU—distinguished faculty and helpful staff alike. Check us out
at www.cgu.edu, then call or e-mail for admissions info.

---

If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a freshman or sophomore, you can still catch up to your classmates
by attending Army ROTC Camp Challenge, a paid six-week summer course in leadership training.

By the time you have graduated from college, you'll have the credentials of an Army officer. You'll also have the
self-confidence and discipline it takes to succeed in college and beyond.
