Is the lesser of two evils the best we can do? Will the real president-elect please stand? A week has
passed since the elections, and the White House is still up for grabs. What seemed like an unexpectedly exciting race
has turned into an excruciating process that has many voters wailing, “Just get it over with!” As a nation that
prides itself on a “peaceful transition of power,” we find ourselves in uncharted waters. Now, it seems that the courts
may decide the fate of some of the contested votes in Florida. If the Democrats proceed as indicated, Republicans have
threatened to follow suit in other states with tiny margins of victory.

What is especially distressing about this process is the rhetoric emerging from the two camps. Neither is willing to concede
for fear that their rivals will claim victory. Campaign promises and party platforms are not important anymore — “just as
long as that other guy doesn’t win” appears to be the prevailing sentiment among party hardliners. Unfortunately, that mentality is
all too common in the general voting public. Voting for president can rightly be said to be the choice of
the lesser of two evils. Worse still, in the absence of substantive debate over policy, either between or within the
parties, increasingly the only characteristics candidates try to market are their personalities. The media are often complicit in the “dumbing
down” of politics. After all, a national soap opera sells much better than intellectual heavyweights discussing the finer nuances of
fiscal policy.

One can see this clearly in the most recent election. Gore was framed as a stiff, nerdy policy wonk who
nevertheless had a firm grasp on the salient issues. By contrast, the media portrayed Bush as an energetic, likable mouthpiece
with little substance behind his lofty ideals. Instead of focusing on genuine differences in their views, the media force-fed voters
two neatly compartmentalized candidates. The result of this trend is that once the decision comes before the majority of American
voters, the choice is extremely limited. The race, rather than encompassing a wide array of ideologies and issues, is simply
a fight between two mutually hostile politicians. For those voters to whom neither candidate appeals, the frequent solution is to
vote “against” the least attractive option. In the process, the voice of the general population is stifled.

The primary system does much to filter out the will of the majority. Party mechanisms apparently place much greater value
on the views of the party faithful than on those of the moderate swing voters who decide the elections. Candidates
are selected based on party loyalty rather than on their policies and ability to govern. In addition, party leadership grants
significant financial resources to shore up those politicians who, through political favors and consistent defense of the party standard, have
proven to be the most dependable and predictable. This is a disservice to our democracy. Not only does it exclude
the views of a large number of voters, but it also reduces the effectiveness of the nomination process. Greater competition,
as well as more substantive debate, is the only way to ensure that candidates for the national executive are as
qualified as possible.

Fortunately, changes are already taking place towards that end. Some states have begun to open up the nomination process to
independent voters. [examples] Such changes have already started to generate greater discussion and competition within the major parties, as was
witnessed during this year’s primaries. Likewise, campaign finance reform continues to show up on candidates’ political “wish lists.” Admittedly, we
have yet to see much progress on this front. Still, there is at least the hope that voters will recognize
the necessary connection between equitable campaign practices and more attractive choices come November.

For the time being, future candidates will model themselves after the Bush-Gore “School of Pretty Good Politics.” Nominees will not
strive for excellence; they will be content to remain just better than the opposition. When this election is finally over,
the candidate left standing will dust himself off, look around, and realize what a mess he has gotten himself into.
As he takes his first precarious steps into the White House, he may find himself envying Ralph Nader, last spotted
driving his Corvair off into the sunset.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck, Editors-in-chief

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief: Aaron Houck, Richard Vinson
Layout Editor: Tim Cook
Business Managers: Peter Clark, David Johnston
Copy Editor: Anna Kvanvig
News Editors: Matt Garfield, JT Tolentino
Advertising Managers: Peter Clark, David Johnston
Sports Editors: Jackie Davidson, Will Roberson
Perspectives Editor: Erica Schwartz
Arts & Living Editors: Thomas Cullen, Martha Hunt
Photography Editors: Brin Berry, Matt Whited
Circulation Manager: Renee Miller

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Offensive language need not be printed

While your distinction between offensive and degrading language is interesting, who ever said that offensive language should be printed? Davidson
encourages freedom as a tenet of a virtuous society. It also fosters a community where respect for one another is
valued highly. As a matter of...Decency and mutual respect, why use language that is offensive? Surely, there are more effective
ways of making an argument. It is clear that Scott’s language offended some. And while I assume his intent was
to entertain and not offend, how can we tell on a printed medium? I take offense at language that offends
someone else, however it is used.

Elder Gwin ‘02

Clinton served us well

I am glad that even biased Mr. Ashooh admits the “economic progress” which took place under the leadership of President
Clinton. It has been exactly this that has made his presidency so positive. Clinton has eliminated budget deficits, created a
surplus, begun paying down the national debt that ballooned under Reagan and Bush, and kept the military-industrial complex from writing
its own checks.

The biggest complaint Mr. Ashooh seems to present, but never discusses, is that “[we] have been marred by political turmoil
and personal failings.” Does Khoury mean the world’s failings or his own? With the conflicts in Rwanda, Bosnia, and Kosovo,
along with continuing struggles for power and peace in Israel and Iraq, the world has surely been “marred by political
turmoil.” Can this be blamed on our president or our country, however? Anyone who is honest will admit nation-building has
been a fault of the United States for some time, but are our efforts to bring stabilization and end humanitarian
emergencies so undesirable?

Mr. Ashooh continues his argument by advocating Governor Bush’s ability to “unite both sides in Washington.” I am from Austin,
Texas, and can offer fair testament to Bush’s honorable job of working with opposing parties. My concern, however, is that
perhaps the greater issue is Bush’s ability to unite the global community. A community where he has no experience and
thus, will be forced to rely heavily on advisors who worked for his father. Bush will not have a foreign
policy; he will have his advisor’s foreign policy, which got rejected after one term in office, just like his father.

Khoury Ashooh believes, as others have likewise fallen victim, that our president serves as a moral beacon leading us to
some “promised land.” The Constitution gives the President six expressed powers, including being Chief Executive, which means to enforce and
carry out federal law. The remaining five are the power to appoint, negotiate and sign treaties, commit troops, veto, and
presidential impoundment. The President’s personal life is no business to the American people, unless it affects his ability to carry
out his expressed powers. Until just recently, the media has stayed almost completely out of the personal life of the
president. Roosevelt, Kennedy, and others have all engaged in marital infidelity while in office, but the media did not broadcast
this to the American people while they sat down to eat dinner. Moral character is important to the credibility of
the president, but more important is their ability to serve as an effective Chief Executive. They must be a master
of foreign relations because our world is not growing smaller, but larger and more interdependent. In this light, Bush’s inexperience
in the bureaucratic process will not be an advantage but a distinct hindrance to his international legitimacy. In addition, his
now apparent lack of any large public mandate will be an equal disadvantage for his legitimacy at home.

Vic Lindsay ‘04

Davidsonian showed bias in pipeline story

While I appreciate The Davidsonian’s efforts to report on a variety of issues, I question the integrity with which certain
stories are delivered. Your recent article on the Piedmont Natural Gas pipeline is a prime example of a story that
should cause concern among your readers—not only about the pipeline, but about The Davidsonian’s reporting. The paper spent nearly 32
column inches discussing the pipeline—who’s laying it, where it’s going, why the college doesn’t like it, why local landowners don’t
like it, and so on. Yet nowhere in that span is there comment from PNG officials. No defense of their
rationale for extending their right-of-way or laying the pipeline. No space given to present their side of the story. (As
an aside, in discussing profits generated by the increased use of natural gas, your reporter uses the poorly-chosen word “kickback.”
Kickback is a term normally reserved for criminal financial transactions, not for honestly-generated profits.)

Make no mistake, I’m no fan of PNG, or of their planned right-of-way expansion. In fact, based on previous personal
dealings with the company, I find the story’s anecdotes believable. Yet journalistic ethics demand that you present the facts from
both sides—something this story failed to do. In that, you missed a fine opportunity to present a genuinely interesting, important,
and balanced story, instead coming off as just another corporation-bashing publication. If The Davidsonian wishes to be taken seriously as
the news organ of this campus, the writers should take greater care, both in their choice of words and their
exercise of evenhanded, balanced reporting.

Brian J. Little
Macintosh Systems Analyst, ITS
