| is Bava aHeAN By ALIson KALETT Editor-in-chief

The men’s team hoped home-pool advantage and their nine seniors would be enough to earn them their third Southern States Championship title in five years. Instead, they claimed third. The Wildcats’ 597-point total left them 36 points short of second-place finisher Louisville and 96.5 points behind defending champion Western Illinois University.

“Our guys stepped up and did everything they could to overcome [the point deficit] and gave it their all, but mathematically it just wasn’t possible,” said Head Coach Rich DeSelm.

“Even though we finished up third I thought we had one of the closest teams I’ve been on in my four years here and we really swam well this weekend,” said senior co-captain Sam Kuykendall.

“Unable to compete for the title that so often defined their previous seasons, the men’s team was forced to stake their success in their ability to swim with character and heart,” said Junior Kurt Hirsekorn.

DeSelm cited the “leadership, skill, depth, and heart” of his seniors as one of the highlights of the championships. “Senior Scott Harper missed the 200 individual medley finals, an event in which he usually competes for the victory, yet he came back the next two days with some of his best times,” DeSelm said. Harper finished second in the 400-yard medley relay and 400-yard individual relay. Kuykendall had solid performances in the 100-yard backstroke where he finished sixth, and in the 200 butterfly.

“It takes a lot of courage and conditioning to swim those two events on the same day, but he’s done it for us for four years,” DeSelm said. Also, Senior Terry Dolch claimed second in the 100-yard backstroke. Senior Mark Medendorp, who plays the dual role of swimmer and Davidson’s lone male diver, was a surprising finalist in the one-meter diving event.

Among the underclassmen, the performance of Junior Kurt Hirsekorn was one of the highlights for the men’s team. Hirsekorn won the 200 and 400-yard individual medleys as well as the 200-yard breaststroke. Hirsekorn also set a new school record in the 200 IM.

“Kurt won three events in the championships - that’s very special for him and us,” DeSelm said. “Kurt Hirsekorn is a powerhouse... he is truly amazing to watch in action and he rises to every occasion,” Kuykendall said.

Sophomore Michael Warner had what DeSelm called “the meet of his life” in setting a new school record in the 100-yard freestyle. Looking ahead, DeSelm hopes for solid performances at ECAC’s and, further in the future, he would like to see more depth in the sprinting and diving events.

“Sprinters are half of the event and relays are double the points,” DeSelm noted. “We’re not going to win a championship without depth in those events, yet, despite this, we are competing with schools like Louisville. I feel good, but our goal is to win.”

PROFILE
Swimming & Diving’s Class of 2000
By Jimmy Burrorp Staff Writer

I’ve never set up an inner city choir or pushed for a new Eating House—actually I don’t think I’ve swam a lap of butterfly—but our senior swimmers have done all that and more. The class of 2000 has set 36 school records, has won six Southern States Championships, and has named four swimmers to the 2000 All Southern States Team. 19 of the Wildcats’ 50 swimmers comprised this year’s senior class, among them...

Rick Clary is from King’s Mountain, N.C. and has been swimming on the team since he first arrived as a freshman. He has improved every year, excelling especially in the 400 IM, 200 back, and 200 breast.

Terry Dolch hails from Allen, Maryland and his name litters the Wildcat record book. He currently holds the records for the 100, 200, 300, and 400 medley relays. As a sophomore, he was on the All-Southern States team.

Swimming & Diving’s Class of 2000 (from L to R): Back Row: Scott Harper, Rick Clary, Mark Medendorp, Daniel Pancotto, Brendan Willmann, Keith Nelson, and Terry Dolch. Middle Row: Mary Shell Brosche, Rachel Horak, Tonya Werner, Suzi Bozzone, Beth Wilson, Karen Fritchie, and Rob Saldin.and the All-ECAC team. Front Row: Jenny Hillmann, Elizabeth Fraser, and Britta Toleman. Not pictured: Jennifer Howard and Sam Kuykendall.

He’s a participant in Davidson’s Habitat for Humanity program. Scott Harper, a co-captain, is from Richmond, Va. He is one, if not the greatest, swimmer to ever attend Davidson. He holds the school records for the 200 fly, 200 and 400 IM. And last year during the Southern States, he led our team with 57 individual points. Also, on this final Michael Jordan-esque note, he swam his career-best finish in the 400 IM...while having mono.

Sam Kuykendall, another co-captain, hails from Columbia, Tennessee. He has been on the All-Southern States team since his freshman year and continues to improve in every event. Mark Medendorp, from Hartland, Wis., is the resident Bo Jackson of the team. Not only does he swim the butterfly and the freestyle, he’s also a diver from the one meter. Keith Nelson, from Waterville, Ohio, crushed the school record in the 100 fly during his first Southern States competition. He broke his own record at the ECAC’s just a week later.

Daniel Pancotto is a quasi-hometown boy from Concord, N.C. He was voted most improved after his sophomore season and is on the All-Academic team. Rob Saldin from Boise, Idaho, finaled in the 500 and 200 fly during his freshman campaign. Last year, he swam to a best time in the 500 free and he is also on the All-Academic team. Brendan Willmann, from Cincinnati, Ohio, has returned after a semester in Spain to catch the tail end of his senior season. Willmann hit the ground running, delivering key Southern States performances in each of his first two years as a Wildcat.

Suzi Bozzone is from Signal Mountain, Tennessee, and after a year off due to injury, she has come back this year to the same form that gained her the school record in the 500 free. She was an All-Southern States team member both her freshman and sophomore seasons. During her junior year, she suffered a head injury that forced her to sit out the season.

Mary Shell Brosche hails from Anderson, S.C. Mary holds the school records in the 100 and 200 back, and the 200 and 400 IM. She’s won three events in the Southern States for the past three years. During her freshman season, she was named the Southern States Female Swimmer of the Meet. She also was instrumental in bringing Turner House to campus.

Elizabeth Fraser is the most experienced diver on the team and after a junior year in Spain, she came back to final in the Southern States in the three meter and place ninth in the one meter. Karen Fritchie is from Raritan, N.J. During her freshman season, she was the fourth leading point scorer with 39. She was also an All-Southern States and All-Academic team member.

Jennie Hillmann is from Wilmington, N.C., and had a promising freshman year, swimming in the finals of the 200 IM, 100 and 200 yard butterfly in Southern States. Rachel Horak is from Dumfries, Va., and has been a Southern States finalist her sophomore and freshman years. She fought a chronic shoulder injury her junior year, yet recovered this year to lead the Wildcats’ Southern States 200 yard medley relay team to a third place finish.

Jennifer Howard is from Williamsburg, Va., and holds the school record for the 100 fly. She has been a vital member of the Wildcats’ team for each of the past four years. She will attend the University of Virginia School of Medicine next year. Britta Toleman of Juneau, Alaska, holds the school record for the 100 breaststroke and has been on four record-setting relay teams. The team’s co-captain is the president of Reach Out and teaches swimming lessons at the YMCA to disabled children.

Tonya Werner, from Chesterland, Ohio, made an immediate impact on the team during her freshman season. At the conference championships, she was a finalist in both the 200 and 400 IM. Beth Wilson is from Richmond, Va., and is a co-captain of the team. She was voted most improved after her sophomore year. She was on a record-setting 200-medley relay team and holds the school record in the 200 breaststroke.

2000 All Southern States Team
Women:
Mary Shell Brosche
Kendra Berner
Heidi Hester
Starr Daniell

Men:
Kurt Hirsekorn
Graham Gravley
Sam Kuykendall
Scott Harper