The Davidsonian — Election craziness: Let Jerry Springer Show choose our next President

By Joy Gerpy AND MATTHEW ZOGBY
Staff Writers

In looking at the presidential election and all the nonsense happening down in Florida, we here at the (Other) Zogby
Poll, in association with Frauline Waters, decided that there must be a more efficient way of choosing the leader of
the so-called “free world.” Thus, the (Other) Zogby Poll is completely dedicated to establishing an alternative, and coincidentally far cooler,
method of deciding which of these two boobs gets to take office. We came up with a number of new,
and as of yet unheralded, benchmarks of political prowess and then asked Davidson students to judge for themselves.

However, before we begin, we would like to tell everyone that apparently some of our respondents have grown increasingly afraid
of what our next poll might be from week to week. At least one Davidson student was heard to say,
“Oh, I’m afraid,” in a deep, baritone voice. We just want to point out that we strike fear into the
hearts of Davidson students. Yeah, that’s right.

Anyway, our first suggestion was to have the Jerry Springer audience decide. We figure that after both candidates displayed an
intense willingness to appear on all sorts of television programs during their campaigns, they would jump at the chance to
appear before TV’s most vocal and opinionated audience. The candidates would undoubtedly notice that this demographic should be targeted, seeing
as how it spans from neo-Nazis to pornography moguls. After debating their ideas before the crowd, taking in a few
surprises and throwing a few punches (as would inevitably follow), audience members, each equipped with double-sided placards (W./Big Al), could
voice their opinions loudly in a totally disorganized way. If you’d notice, the problem of mistakenly punched ballots would, thus,
be completely eliminated. Also, fans of the two-party system would be happy to see that the placards perpetuate the marginalization
of third-party candidates. That is, until the three-sided placard is invented. This choice received only 7% of the vote, thus
ensuring that the vocal majority that is Jerry Springer’s audience will still be forced to yell “Jerry, Jerry!” at the
top of their lungs in order to be heard.

The second choice was to have the two candidates participate in a match of Battlebots. For those readers unfamiliar with
the show, Battlebots consists of people, often with far too much time on their hands, inventing machines with the sole
purpose of being put in a ring where they will face other machines in a supreme battle, which does not
end until one machine loses a wheel and is, thus, rendered motionless. On second thought, this isn’t a very good
way of deciding. It still received 3% of the vote, however.

The third choice was to let Mickey and Minnie decide. We know what you are thinking. How obvious it seems
to have Florida’s two most popular and enduring citizens decide. But it is not so simple. There is a problem.
Not being human, Minnie and Mickey are denied the right to vote. Now we understand the premise of this rule.
Not all animals should have the right to vote. But human-sized, talking, clothes-wearing animals... we think that is another matter
entirely. Apparently, Davidson does not agree. Only 3% of the vote went to the beloved Disney characters.

Moving on, you’re about to smell what The Rock is cooking. Yes, that’s right. The next choice was to have
the candidates compete in a Pro-Wrestling/Battledome/American Gladiators style event. While the candidates are both very confident now that they will
win the election, we here at the (Other) Zogby Poll feel they would be singing a different tune if they
were forced to face the likes of Blaze or Siren. Of course, if competing in a head-to-head wrestling match, an
impartial choreographer would decide the victor beforehand. Dubya 3:16.

The next logical choice would be to simply decide the presidency based on SAT scores. For this information, of course,
we turn to Cosmo. According to the October 2000 issue of Cosmopolitan magazine, George W. Bush’s SAT score was an
impressive 1206. Albert “Clifford” Gore scored a whopping 1355. While not exactly a 1502, they are both decent scores. Incidentally,
“Cosmo’s Guide to Picking a President” also points out that Al Gore is an Aries and George W. Bush is
a Cancer. (Joy, an Aquarius who enjoys long walks on the beach and soup, does not get along with Cancers
but can stand an Aries or two.) Despite the popularity of Cosmo, this choice received only 3% of the vote.

While similar to your stereotypical pride of lions (see also Born Free or The Lion King), choosing a president by
means of Ultimate Fighting would entail a fight to the death. Some respondents also mentioned that this would be very
similar to Celebrity Deathmatch and wondered why MTV has not taken this on yet. Fraheen Counts, a proponent of this
method, made his political leanings known by saying, “I wanna see Gore come out of that ring with Bush’s blood
on his face.” Please remember that Mr. Frah’s opinions do not reflect those of the (Other) Zogby Poll. Apparently, Davidson’s
campus is a bunch of blood-thirsty maniacs, seeing as how this choice received 21% of the vote.

The two most popular new means of choosing a president on...Davidson’s campus were an academic decathlon based on the famous
one in Billy Madison and to have the candidates concede to the American public and take the physical challenge, each
receiving 24% of the votes. The first choice would interest those of us at the (Other) Zogby Poll because we
would really like to see the candidates bake a soufflé, give a reading of Hamlet, run the 100-meter dash, and
answer questions on pertinent topics such as “BUSINESS ETHICS” and “MY WIFE IS COMMON STREET TRASH.” The second option is
to take the physical challenge. Marc Summers could simply say, “Look guys. We can recount those votes in Palm Beach
County, or you can take the physical challenge.” And honestly, do we want a president who would not be willing
to take the physical challenge? It is unclear whether the voters actually thought that the physical challenge would be an
effective method of choosing a president or whether they just wanted to see the candidates get slimed. We tend to
think it was the latter.

Several write-ins earned “Honorable Mention” certificates from their local Rotary Club. (They’re in the mail.) These options include an arousing
game of Rock-Paper-Scissors, whoever could count backwards from eleventy billion the fastest, mashed potato sculpture contest, and let Monica decide.
Unfortunately, the majority of Davidson’s campus failed to recognize that each of these alternatives could very easily give one candidate
an unfair advantage over the other. The only truly fair way to elect a president is with a coin toss.
Although this choice received only 3% of the votes, we think it is clearly the winner. We would like to
thank all the participants for trying, but sadly, the vast majority of them were just plain wrong. Until the government
decides to implement the coin toss, the entire election system will always be unfair for one candidate or another. Expect
to be sitting in front of CNN or MSNBC for quite some time. There is no way to mess up
a coin toss (unless you drop the coin and it rolls under a couch or something), and it is an
inject esaliee aaa of the above choices would simply be more interesting to watch than learning how to do your
own hand count at home. (What the hell is a chad anyway?) So stand up and fight for your right
to send the candidates into the ring with Goldberg. It’s the American way. You can now visit the Other Zogby
Poll online at www.zogby.com in the soundbites archive.

Students share reactions to election
By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

More than a week ago, American citizens cast their votes for president. Many expected to wake up to the news
of who had won. Voters across the nation and here at Davidson had their expectations frustrated by the apparent controversy
surrounding the election. In particular, questions surrounding returns in certain counties in Florida raised doubts for some about the electoral
process. In the days that followed, the candidates’ reactions have also been cause for debate. A few Davidson students offered
their own analyses of the election and its effects on the country.

Students held a broad consensus about the legitimacy of the electoral system but disagreed regarding the actions of the candidates
and of the media and their repercussions for the nation. In general, all agree that the role of the courts
in the electoral process should be minimal. Noted Lee Ann Petty ’01, “I think this has no business going to
the courts.” Similarly, Katie Wilson ‘03 stated that she didn’t think “that the judicial branch ought to create the winner
of the executive election.” They and other critics of present developments in Florida consistently cited such concepts as “rule of
law” and “the will of the people” as crucial to the electoral process. Mark Cody ’01 accurately summarized the views
of most. “[T]he will of the people should determine the presidency. That is what democracy is fundamentally about.”

Students differed, however, on whether they think the courts are interfering too much in this particular case. Dan Gibson ’02
asserted that “the results [of the election] have concluded consistently.” In light of this, any further action in the courts
would be unnecessary. On the other hand, Mark Pustay ’03 affirmed that “Gore has every right to do what he’s
doing.” Cody concurred, offering support for “any extensions and court injunctions that will allow for the will of the people
to be expressed in an accurate way.”

Students also seemed to believe that the country’s electoral system is fair and effective. As Pustay observed, “There is not
a single system that isn’t flawed, but what we currently have is the best possible alternative.” Wilson argued similarly that
this year’s election does not call the system into question. Rather, it only has “implications . . . for this
particular year.” Petty maintained that though the system may be legitimate, this particular election demonstrates the possibility and the seriousness
of irregularities. “I think we are realizing how serious election totals are and how easy it is to manipulate the
numbers by machine or hand-count error.”

See Election, page 8
