4 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Press RELEASE

Future generations of Davidson language students may never study verb conjugation and memorize vocabulary from the pages of a book.
The next generation will learn at computer terminals in a new Language Resource Center (LRC) that the college is currently
constructing in the south basement of Chambers. The LRC will open in January, transforming the Oeland Language Center into a
facility built to allow faculty to integrate technology into their foreign language lesson plans in exciting ways. It will feature
equipment, software, training, and space for faculty members to include computer-assisted instruction, digital video of everyday interactions in other countries,
and websites students can visit to keep up with other cultures.

Faculty members Burkhard Henke, Scott Denham, Alan Singerman, and Charles Dockery spent the last few years researching similar facilities and
programs at other institutions. “Information technology has taken the world by storm, including the academy,” said Singerman. “Technology is transforming
foreign language pedagogy.” Henke added, “The great advantage is the opportunity to teach with culturally authentic material.” He noted that
students will be exposed to the same materials on the Web as native speakers, such as train schedules, advertisements, and
news. They can practice reading examples of the language used in real-life situations to gain cultural understanding. Additionally, the Center
will allow students to learn independently of professors more effectively, because computer-based materials can provide immediate feedback on their work.

Peter Janssens will be the new director, helping faculty and students take full advantage of the new opportunities. A native
of Belgium who speaks six languages, Janssens will maintain the computers, assist with the creation of multimedia and web-based instructional
materials, train student employees, and teach classes in Spanish and/or French. The Center will host both classroom sessions and open
lab hours. “Language instruction has been superb at Davidson, even though the foreign language faculty has not had full access
to the latest technological resources,” said Clark Ross, vice president for academic affairs. “This facility is overdue and will only
add to an already excellent foreign language program.”

Partially funded through a grant from the Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, the LRC will feature 21 computer stations, an instructor’s
console, a projection system, three servers, a VCR, scanner, printer, and digital camera. New office space, a photo room, and
a faculty workroom are being built.

Henke is one of the professors taking the technological and pedagogical initiative. In 1998 he created Web pages that require
students to practice their listening comprehension, reading, and writing skills all in the context of real cultural content. He and
Denham wrote content for the pages that parallels student work in textbooks. German 201 students also create their own Web
pages, thereby gaining experience in two languages, HTML and German! Denham reports a marked increase in students’ enthusiasm and skills.
“It makes for real communicative competency among our students,” he said.

Press RELEASE

Four Davidson scientists each recently received $2,500 grants from the Associated Colleges of the South effort to develop high-tech teaching
materials and curricula that might be shared with other ACS member institutions. Karen Bernd, assistant professor of biology, will integrate
Web-based assignment modules for her upper-level Biology 308 cell biology course.Biology course and laboratory next fall. She will employ the
Just-In-Time Teaching (JiTT) approach and WebAssign program, both of which were developed by Wolfgang Christian of the physics department. By
providing questions involving theory and application and instantaneous electronic feedback to both students and faculty members, the materials she develops
are intended to allow more effective use of class time and increase students’ retention of material.

Malcolm Campbell, assistant professor of biology, will work to further refine web pages for his Genome Consortium for Active Teaching
(GCAT) that are already interactive and dynamic. Campbell developed GCAT to bring functional genomic methods into the undergraduate curriculum. Genomics
is the effort to discover and characterize the estimated 70,000 human genes.

Michael Dorcas, assistant professor of biology, will create a web-based system to help students learn to recognize the calls of
frogs and toads. These “anuran” populations are a valuable indicator of the general health of ecosystems, and the ability to
monitor them is an increasingly important ecological skill for students to learn. Dorcas’ system will improve upon existing audiotape systems
by allowing students to select only calls that occur in their geographic area, and by linking the sound files to
photographs and information such as the natural history and breeding seasons of each species. Finally, an evaluation section will give
students online call identification quizzes, testing their skills as they develop.

Dan Boye, associate professor of physics, and Greta Munger, assistant professor of psychology, plan to develop a variety of experiences
involving sounds to share with students the breadth of the aural world. From teaching previous courses on the physics of
sound and the psychology of sound, they have discovered a great deal of overlap in the type of interactive demonstrations
they would like to provide for students. Boye has already done some work at putting sound files on the web,
but the two professors would like to develop web-based exercises that include manipulation of more complex sounds like chords and
orchestral timbre. That work will require the creation of Java language tools for manipulating sounds, as well as documentation. They
hope to engage students in a wide range of physics and psychology courses that touch on sound or sound perception
in the exploration of how it is that we hear things.
