THE DAVIDSONIAN: from page 1 | optimal rehearsal space. Converting Grey into the music building will solve these problems as
well as offer added advantages. Right now, preliminary plans indicate rehearsal and recital halls on the second floor, the music
library and offices on the ground floor, and practice rooms and teaching studios in the basement. Although this could change
as planning progresses, Sprague anticipates that whatever the final design, the building will be able to fulfill all the needs
of the department. The new location of the department will be even more beneficial than the addition of needed space.
Moving into Grey will put music facilities in a central location between Chambers, Martin, Watson, and Little Library, which is
where most activity takes place. Most music spaces, like Cunningham, are now on the perimeter of the campus, which Sprague
says is a deterrent for some students. “We hope a new location, with all our resources in one place, will
help students see us as more inviting and look inside for relationships to their majors and interests. The department is
so much more than students who play and perform music,” he commented. He pointed out the wide variety of non-traditional
and non-Western music classes the department offers and the opportunities of student-run music groups as some of the ways that
many students can find niches within the music department. “You don’t have to like Brahms and Bach to take music
here,” Sprague remarked. The improvement of the music department’s physical resources will benefit other groups as well. The new recital
space is expected to seat about 170 and can also be used for more intimate theater performances. The building will
have a general-purpose room which will be open for other lectures and events. “We won’t be using all these resources
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We’re working with the architect so spaces, when not in use by
the music department, will be available for other groups,” Sprague said.

Flu vaccine shortage
By Katy Elwee, Staff Writer

Confined settings such as classrooms and dorms are excellent breeding grounds for influenza outbreaks, putting the majority of Davidson students
at risk of contracting this serious disease. Just ask Colin Eagan ’04, who has already been victimized by the virus.
“It seems like an awful lot of freshmen are susceptible to the flu,” he said. “I caught it about a
week ago.” Many students try to avoid the sickness by getting an influenza vaccine. Last year, 20 to 25% of
Davidson students received the vaccination, creating a total of over 410 vaccines given. “Although it is impossible to tell how
many students get sick each year because not all students visit the health center when they are sick, the flu
vaccine definitely puts a dent in the number of cases we have each year,” said Jan Poole of the Student
Health Center. This year, however, vaccination may not be possible due to a vaccine shortage nationwide. The yield for this
year’s influenza vaccine A(H3N2) component is lower than expected, limiting the supply that can be developed in time for this
flu season, which begins around late October. Other manufacturing issues also interfere with the production of the vaccine. Manufacturers are
working closely with the FDA to address these issues. “We pre-ordered the vaccine back in March or April,” Poole said.
“But our shipment, which usually arrives at the end of September, might be delayed as long as the first week
in November.” According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the vaccine shortage is a result of both
production delays and higher-than-expected demand.For Disease Control, yearly vaccination is especially critical in the fight against influenza because the virus
that causes it changes often. The influenza vaccine is updated each year by replacing at least one of the vaccines
with a newer one. Protection develops about two weeks after the shot and can last up to a year. Davidson
makes an extra effort to inform students of the importance of vaccination by holding a yearly flu campaign. “We had
originally scheduled the campaign for October 24, but we will probably have to delay it,” Poole said.

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for birthday or graduation exam
time or just for fun!
BEN & JERRY'S
VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
Davidson * 892-0604

The music department’s move will make additional space in Cunningham and Oak Row available. While plans are still vague about
how the space will be used, the theater department is anticipating many advantages in having more space in the Fine
Arts building. The building does not yet have a projected opening date; a year to a year and a half
after Knobloch opens is currently anticipated. The Davidson community can expect two and how you interact with other students. And
it will change it in positive ways,” asserted Brown. The improvement of the music facilities will be improving upon an
already stellar program and is sure to benefit the 30% of Davidson’s students involved in music as well as the
entire community. “We have a unique situation at Davidson, to be a small liberal arts school and to have ensembles
the caliber we do,” claimed Sprague.

The possibility of someone slipping this colorless, odorless, and tasteless drug into a person’s drink is infinite. I do not
say this to scare people or to create hysteria; I merely want to educate people, so that next time they
will think twice about accepting a drink from someone or leaving their drink unattended. If you ever suspect that this
drug was used on you or someone else, or you suspect someone has this drug, immediately contact Campus Police, Georgia
Ringle, or myself. This is a felony offense, punishable by law. We need to stop the perpetrators before they hurt
other people. Also, the nurse on call or the Health Center should be called. Within 24 hours, the drug can
still be detected in the body. The combination of the date rape drug and alcohol can be fatal, since they
are both depressants.

I told my friend I didn’t feel so good, and no sooner did I say it, I collapsed. I only
remember bits and pieces of the rest of the night. My friends carried me to my car; I was barely
responsive. I couldn’t move, I had trouble breathing, the world was spinning, I couldn’t talk, and then I started to
vomit and couldn’t stop. They finally put me in the back of a car where I passed out. They drove
me home. I have very few memories of the night. Anything could have happened to me. Had my friends not
been there, I’m almost certain that it would. When we got to the house (which I don’t remember at all,
this is all what I’ve been told by my friend).
