Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian

By Taleshia Murphy
Staff Writer

For the first time in history, Davidson’s football team won its first six games of the season and extended its overall winning streak to 13 by defeating Randolph-Macon. Lucky thirteen, however, did not come without a fight.

The first quarter scoreboard saw little action from either team. The Cats started with their first field goal attempt being blocked by Bobby Akers. Senior Bo Henderson kept Macon from getting the edge by blocking a field goal attempt later in the quarter.

In the second quarter, the Davidson offense showed more promise. Senior running back Bryan Fish finally got the Cats on the board, leaping into the end zone on a short 3-yard run. Fish’s TD run capped off a 14-play, 72-yard run.

Randolph-Macon attempted to counter Fish’s TD with a few tricks. Late in the 2nd quarter, after the Davidson defense stopped Randolph-Macon on 3rd and short, the Yellow Jackets lined up in what appeared to be a 23-yard field goal, but was actually a fake. On the ensuing fourth down play, Randolph-Macon holder John Working took the snap and tossed the ball over his head to kicker Kevin Cherwa, who sprinted for the first down marker. The Davidson defense was not fooled, as senior defensive back Ryan Crawford ran Cherwa down, stopping him short of the first down and giving Davidson possession of the ball.

The most exciting play of the quarter and perhaps the game came courtesy of sophomore quarterback Paul Nichols and receiver Mike Chase. With time running out, Nichols threw up a Hail Mary which was tipped several times before being hauled in by Chase on a phenomenal one-handed grab. Chase’s score sent the Cats into the locker room with a 14-0 lead.

Despite the momentum gained by Davidson at the end of the 1st half, the Yellow Jackets were not discouraged. They emerged from halftime with a new level of intensity, forcing Davidson to turn over the ball three times in the third quarter. Paul Nichols’ pass was picked off by the Yellow Jackets’ Avery Griffin and returned 26 yards for a touchdown. The next two Davidson offensive possessions resulted in two fumbles by Fish. Randolph-Macon capitalized on both Davidson’s turnovers with back-to-back field goals, cutting the Davidson lead to two at 14-12.

After the running attack of the Cats had gone cold, Davidson Coach Joe Susan turned to junior running back Ward Gibson to provide an offensive spark. Gibson responded by making several big plays, including a 45-yard run to get the Cats deep within Randolph-Macon territory. Later in that possession, Nichols found senior Corey Crawford in the back of the end zone for a 13-yard touchdown pass. The extra point attempt went wide left, making the score 20-12. The missed PAT left the Wildcats ahead by only one possession.

The Davidson defense made the eight-point hold, however, stopping several second-half drives by the Yellow Jacket offense. Gibson, arguably the star of the game, ended the day with an impressive 131 yards on 20 carries, the first 100-yard game of his collegiate career. With the win, Davidson remained tied with Nebraska and Robert Morris for the longest winning streak in the country, dating back to last year. The Wildcats will look for number 14 this Saturday at Hampden-Sydney.

Defense dominates as women’s soccer wins two

Press Release

After a plethora of scoring against Wofford, Davidson struggled just to get shots on goal against Appalachian State, but managed to slip by the Mountaineers, 1-0. The win keeps second place in the Southern Conference in sight for the Cats as they improve to 12-5 overall and 5-2 in SoCon action.

The first half ended in a scoreless tie even though both teams had scoring opportunities. At 59:58 of the second half, sophomore Heather Maloney netted the only goal of the game, sliding a shot underneath the arms of the Mountaineer goalie. Junior Natalie Cox and fellow sophomore Tara Maloney assisted on Heather’s team-leading goal.18th goal of the season. Appalachian State (6-9-2, 2-5-1) outshot Davidson 14-4 on the evening but was unable to score. Senior goalie Winnie Corrigan stopped nine shots to pick up her conference-leading seventh shutout. With two more conference victories, the Cats will finish no worse than third place in the Southern Conference heading into the SoCon Tournament.

The Davidson women’s soccer team took care of business against SoCon rival East Tennessee State 2-1. With the win, the Wildcats improve to 10-5 overall and 6-2 in the Southern Conference while the Bucs remain winless in SoCon action. A back-and-forth first half ended in Davidson’s favor as freshman Sarah Huber scored her first collegiate goal on a 10-yard blast with 13 seconds remaining to give the Cats a 1-0 lead at the break. Junior Penn Graves and sophomore Heather Maloney had assists on Huber’s goal. East Tennessee State regrouped in the second half and scored on a head ball just over three minutes into the period to knot the score at one. Davidson struck back as Maloney used her speed to split the East Tennessee State defense and beat the Bucs goalie at 63:39 to put the Wildcats up for good at 2-1. The unassisted goal was Maloney’s 19th on the year and her sixth game-winning goal this season. Senior goalie Winnie Corrigan made one of her four saves with three seconds left in the match to preserve the win. Davidson takes on ACC-foe Wake Forest in Winston-Salem Wednesday evening at 7:00 p.m.

ASHEVILLE, N.C. - Davidson’s sophomore forward Heather Maloney was recently named Player of the Week by the Southern Conference. Maloney has 19 goals and 38 points for the season, both new school single-season records.

Volleyball continues roller coaster season
By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

A little over one month ago, Chattanooga swept Davidson out of Maclellan Gym, knocking the Wildcats off their perch atop the Southern Conference. On Saturday, Davidson earned a sweet bit of revenge—routing the Lady Mocs in 3 games at Belk Arena to reclaim sole possession of the top spot in the Southern. Davidson jumped out of the gate early, but Chattanooga rallied from a 10-4 deficit to claim game one 15-13. But Davidson was able to rally the troops, mobilizing the Wildcats for an explosive 15-1 rout in the second game. Davidson never looked back, claiming games three and four (15-4, 15-13) to shuffle Chattanooga out of a first-place tie for the conference lead.

“There was definitely a revenge factor involved as well as chemistry,” said Katherine Lorenz. Chattanooga, who has been impressive at home but unimposing as a traveling squad (4-5 through Saturday), fell to 9-3 in SoCon play, while the Cats moved to 10-2. Sophomore Roberta Quis, who has been increasingly impressive as the season transpires, had a standout night with 17 kills to tie Mara Mordini for the team high. The Wildcats dug the ball well, with four players (Mordini, Erica Schwartz, Lauren Schultz, and Kaitlyn Martin) each registering double-digit tallies in that category.

But Davidson proved once again mortal on Sunday, falling to the fifth-place Western Carolina Catamounts. The Wildcats rolled to two quick wins in the match’s opening games, but the momentum swung decisively as WCU rallied to win three straight games and earn the upset victory (12-15, 6-15, 15-2, 15-12, 15-13). Roberta Quis again led the Wildcats with kills, tallying 15 on the afternoon. Junior Jacqueline Ortega also had an impressive outing, leading the Cats in attack percentage.

Though Chattanooga defeated UNC-Greensboro at Fleming Gymnasium on Sunday to match Davidson’s SoCon record of 10-3, the Wildcats retain possession of first place due to a superior overall record. Davidson returns to action against the College of Charleston (5-6, 11-8) and the Citadel (0-11, 3-17) this weekend before facing a tough conference challenge from Furman (7-2, 8-12) on Tuesday night. Central Florida University is also on the docket this weekend. The Knights, 13-8 overall, visit Belk Arena on Saturday night.