Volleyball claims top spot in SoCon with win over Furman

Press Release

DAVIDSON, N.C. — In a battle for first place in the Southern Conference on Halloween, Davidson ended up with a big treat, a three-game win over Furman, 15-3, 15-7, 15-10. With the win, Davidson (18-10, 13-3) remains in first place in the SoCon, while Furman (12-15, 11-4) falls a game back in the loss column.

The anticipated showdown between the top two teams in the conference fizzled quickly. After a short series of sideouts, Davidson blitzkrieged Furman by taking the last 11 out of 12 points to take the first game.

“I’m very pleased with the way we played tonight,” noted Davidson head coach Tami Darwin. “Everything was clicking, and we really fed off our enthusiastic crowd.”

After storming through game one, the Cats kept control of the contest by getting out in front of the Lady Paladins early in each of the following games and cruised to the victory.

In her final home contest, senior Mara Mordini registered a double-double with 15 kills and 22 digs. Mordini’s sixth dig was her 482nd on the season, a new single-season record for Davidson. Junior Jennifer Ortega also had a solid outing, tallying 13 kills and leading all players with three blocks. Furman’s Carrie Rowley notched a double-double (10 kills, 15 digs) to pace the Lady Paladins.

Davidson plays its final four contests in their quest to claim the regular season championship on the road. First up for the Cats will be Georgia Southern on Saturday, November 4th, in Statesboro, Ga.

Nov 4 @ GSU 7pm
Nov 7 @ UNCG 7pm
Nov 10 @ App. St. 7pm
Nov 11 @ ETSU 5pm

Volleyball rallies to beat Charleston, dominates The Citadel, UCF

Press Release

The Wildcat volleyball squad shook off a two-game to one deficit to overtake the College of Charleston in five games, 13-15, 15-10, 8-15, 15-1, 15-12. The win improves Davidson to 11-3 in the Southern Conference and 15-10 overall while the Cougars drop to 6-8 in the conference and 12-11 overall.

Both teams came out early playing solid defense, leading to numerous sideouts. The Cats were able to get a lead on Charleston, 11-8, only to see the Cougars win seven out of the last nine points to take game one. Davidson bounced back by using an improved attack to jump out to a sizeable 10-3 lead in the following game. From there, the Wildcats cruised to even the match at one game apiece.

The back and forth match continued in game three as the College of Charleston only committed one error en route to a two games to one lead. The fourth game turned out to be the turning point in the match. Davidson managed to grab the first 13 points of the game to seize the momentum back from the Cougars. In game four, the Wildcats registered a match-high .406 hitting percentage.

Momentum gained in the fourth game for the Cats carried over to the fifth as Davidson jumped out to a 6-2 lead. From that point on, the College of Charleston could only manage to get within two points at 13-11 and 14-12, but could not overtake Davidson. This was the first five-game win for Davidson in their last four attempts.

Cougar junior Alyson VanCleave led all players in kills with 28. Junior Jacqueline Ortega headlined the Davidson stats with 23 kills. Senior Mara Mordini, junior Jennifer Ortega, and sophomores Roberta Quis and Rebecca Teichgraeber all registered double-digit kills for Davidson. Wildcat junior Erica Schwartz led both teams in assists with 66.

The Davidson volleyball squad brought out the broomsticks in a doubleheader sweep of The Citadel and the University of Central Florida today. Davidson has now won four straight matches.

Football, from page 12

...with Jeff Woody for an 8-yard touchdown. After a successful two-point conversion, the score was 24-17. The Tigers watched their opportunity to upset the Cats slip away when they were called for roughing the kicker during a Wildcat punt. Davidson quickly capitalized on the penalty when Nichols scored the Cats' fourth touchdown on a 1-yard quarterback sneak. The PAT was missed due to a bad snap, making the score 30-17. After Nichols’ run, the Cats added an 8-yard run by Bryan Fish, which sealed their 36-17 victory and preserved their undefeated season. With the victory and Nebraska’s loss to Oklahoma, the Cats remain tied with Robert Morris for the...longest Division I win streak. Davidson returns home next week to play Centre College. Kickoff is at 1:30 p.m.

What: Ben & Jerry’s Vermonster eating contest (20 scoops in a bucket)
Where: Davidson College football game against Centre College
Who: Anyone and everyone!
When: November 4th at halftime of the football game.
Why: FUN, test your ice cream eating skills, great prizes, and support the Davidson Women’s Lacrosse team.

First Annual Vermonster Eating Contest — Call the Davidson Lacrosse office at x2525 or Ben & Jerry's at 704-892-0604 to register. Great Prizes To Top 3 Teams.

Davidson won matches in a row to improve to 17-10 overall and 12-3 in the Southern Conference. In the afternoon match, Davidson easily disposed of The Citadel (3-21, 0-13) in three games, 15-3, 15-2, 15-7. The Wildcats took command of the match early, winning the first ten points before the Bulldogs got on the board. From that point on, Davidson never looked back. Leading the charge for the Cats was sophomore Rebecca Teichgraeber with 11 kills on only one error. Senior Katherine Lorenz registered double-digit digs with 10 in the contest.

The nightcap matched up two conference leaders in Davidson and UCF with the Wildcats prevailing 15-9, 13-15, 15-7, 15-6. The Knights (14-9) had come into the match on a six-game winning streak. Even with the earlier match, Davidson came out strong in game one, staking an 11-4 advantage. From there, the Cats shifted into cruise control to take the initial game. The score went back and forth in the second game. In fact, there were ties at 11, 12, and 13 before the Knights grabbed the final two points. The Trans America Athletic Conference leaders followed up game two by jumping out in the next game 7-4. However, Davidson rebounded to win the last 11 points to take control of the contest. In that game, Davidson held UCF to a .096 hitting percentage. The Wildcats pounced on the Knights in game four, taking a quick 13-2 lead and held on for victory. UCF freshman Leyre Santaella Sante led all players in kills with 28. For the Cats, three players had at least 10 kills. Sophomore Roberta Quis notched 20 kills while seniors Mara Mordini and Brooke Bentley amassed 18 and 11 respectively. Freshman Nicole Tonelli had an impressive evening, compiling 51 assists, nine kills, and a .333 hitting percentage.

Cross-country competes in SoCon Championships

Press Release

BOONE, N.C. — The Appalachian State men and the Furman women both outdistanced the competition to win their respective races at the 2000 Southern Conference Championships today, hosted by Appalachian State University. The races witnessed several outstanding individual performances, most noticeably the fourth championship in as many years by Appalachian’s Mary Jayne Harrelson and Ryan Kendall’s win for Chattanooga in the men’s competition.

In the men’s race, Appalachian claimed five of the top 12 spots to garner the victory. The team title came down to the fifth runners for ASU and UTC, where Appalachian’s No. 5 man finished 12th and Chattanooga’s No. 5 placed 62nd. Kendall made it through the 8K trail in 25:13 to become the fourth UTC runner in five years to win the individual crown. Appalachian’s Ben Bissette finished second with a time of 25:17. VMI’s Joe Smith followed in third with a time of 25:27. Sophomore Jimmy Swansbrough finished 21st overall in a time of 26:33 to finish as the Wildcats’ top runner for the day. He was followed closely by sophomores Brad Becken, with a career best of 26:42, and Andrew Schoewe in 27:06. Chris Schmader and Colby Broadwater rounded out the top five for the Wildcats in 39th and 49th place respectively, with Schmader also running a career best 27:21 for the 8K course.

Appalachian totaled 43 points en route to the victory in the men’s race. Chattanooga placed second (91), and Furman trailed in third (115). The Wildcats tied for sixth with UNCG (161). The sixth-place finish was the Wildcats’ second-best finish in the last 20 years and bested their preseason coaches’ poll ranking of 8th in the conference by two spots. Men’s coach Gary Andrew said, “I’m really proud of the way these guys stepped up and performed when it counted. We’re a very young team with tremendous talent and exciting prospects for the future. With our top five scorers from this meet all sophomores and freshmen, I see little reason to believe we can’t be a top contender in the years to come. This was the first step in the right direction.”

Next up for the Wildcats is the 2000 NCAA Southeast Regionals on November 11 in Greenville, S.C.