By WILL ROPERSON Sports Editor

I always tell my friends that I’d rather be able to shoot the three than be able to dunk. I
hope they all know I’m lying. I’m just jealous. Basketball purists might agree with me, that a long jump shot
is worth one more point than slamming the ball through the hoop. But the truth is, nothing gets a team
as excited as a big-time dunk. And a dunk is certainly more entertaining for the fans.

I hadn’t watched any of the Olympics before Monday. The whole tape-delay thing just isn’t working for me. I just
get up in the morning and check ESPN.com and find out who won. But I awoke on Monday morning to
a picture of Vince Carter sitting on some French guy’s head as he dunked on him. Needless to say, I
watched the U.S. game that afternoon. I also taped the game. I estimate that I’ve watched that one play about
75 times in the last two days. As I watched Vince completely hurdle the 7-2 Frenchman, it got me thinking...
was this the greatest dunk of all time? If not, then which dunk was? I was gonna make a Top
10 list, but couldn’t narrow it down (Greatest of All Time).

13. Scottie Pippen on Patrick Ewing - Pippen, then a Bull, went up to jam as Ewing, then a Knick,
went up to block it. The two collided in mid-air, and Pippen kept going, jamming it through with authority. Ewing
went sprawling to the floor, and ended up with Pippen straddling him with a look that said, “Yes, I just
did that to you.”

12. Corey Maggette vs. Florida - Maggette sliced through the Florida defense on the fast break and jammed with two
hands. Instead of letting go of the rim, he proceeded to do a pull-up on the rim and smack the
top of the backboard, drawing a technical.

11. Dee Brown in the dunk contest - Back when it was cool to wear Reeboks, Brown sat at center
court and inflated his Pumps before soaring to the rim while covering his eyes with his forearm.

10. Tracy McGrady on Kornel David - Yeah, I know, you’re thinking Colonel Who? McGrady streaked down the court on
the unsuspecting member of the post-Jordan Bulls. David realized what was about to happen to him and tried to turn
around at the last second so as not to be posterized. He ended up giving McGrady a piggy-back ride on
his way to the rim.

9. Michael Jordan on Patrick Ewing - Jordan drove to the baseline past John Starks but was cut off by
Charles Oakley. He faked like he was going to dribble back out, spun around Oakley, and was met by Ewing
at the rim. Advantage: Mike. Jordan proceeded to dunk on Ewing, drawing a foul in the process.

8. Darvin Ham on Carolina - The turning point of the Texas Tech upset of UNC in the 1996 NCAA
Tournament also provided one of the greatest Sports Illustrated covers of all time. Ham followed his teammate’s miss with a
ferocious two-handed tip dunk over Serge Zwikker and Antawn Jamison. The only problem is that he forgot to let go
of the rim. The backboard shattered and the Raiders advanced to the Sweet 16.

7. Vince Carter on Dikembe Mutombo - Mutombo, a notorious shot blocker, really looked like he was gonna block this
one. He and Carter jumped about the same time, and as Mutombo reached the peak of his jump he was
in great position. The only problem is that Vince kept going up.

6. John Starks on Michael Jordan and Horace Grant - Known as “The Dunk,” this one gets more love just
because it was against the greatest player of all time. Starks drove baseline and finished with his left hand against
a helpless Bulls team.

5. Julius Erving’s Free Throw Dunk - The one that everyone copies. Except Dr. J had the genius to do
it first. And best.

4. Vince Carter’s 3 Dunks at the 2000 Dunk Contest - These three get grouped together just so the list
won’t be 16 dunks long. The first one was a 360 windmill going the wrong way. The second was a
between-the-legs dunk off a bounce from cousin and teammate McGrady. And the clincher was a dunk where he dunked his
entire forearm in the rim and just hung there by his elbow. These three would’ve challenged for #1 — but
I’m more partial to those.that happened during a game.

3. Vince Carter’s double-pump reverse on the Pacers - The best play of the 1999-2000 season. Vince easily blew past
Chris Mullin only to be met by Dale Davis at the basket. Carter simply brought the ball back down to
his knees and somehow ended up throwing it down on the other side of the rim.

2. Vince Carter’s Rucker Dunk - The best play no one’s ever seen—I was lucky to find a copy of
this on the internet. Playing in a summer league game, Vince caught an alley-oop at about waist level. He proceeded
to drop the ball down to about knee level and do an incredible windmill dunk. The crowd at Rucker Park
in New York stormed the court—the game was delayed 20 minutes until the crowd went back into the stands.

1. Vince Carter in the Olympics - I thought I was watching basketball, not the high jump. Frederic Weis, the
French center, is the first 7-foot-2 hurdle I’ve ever seen. Weis saw Vince coming and tried to take a charge
on the oncoming American. The problem was, Vince jumped over him. Literally. Vince took off about two steps inside the
free throw line, put his hand on Weis’s head, and hurdled him. And then he had the athleticism to finish
off the dunk. Frederic Weis, prepare to be on one of the best posters of all time. Said Vince, “I
don’t have time to worry about who’s there. I just put the ball in the hole.”

I know all of you are gonna say that I’m giving Vince too much credit by giving him the top
4 dunks of all time. After all, he’s only been in the league two years! But the only person that
ever had his creativity in the air was Michael Jordan. The only person to dunk with the same ferocity and
power was Dominique Wilkins. Never has anyone combined the two in such a scary way. And he does it with
such an attitude and killer instinct. Vince Carter truly is the G.O.A.T.

Mike Anderson

Field Hockey dominates Catawba, Appalachian St.
Wildcats improve to 2-1 in NorPac play
By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Sophomore phenom Agnes Bateman led the way last week as Davidson swarmed past a pair of in-state rivals, Catawba and
Appalachian State. The 5-4 sophomore forward from Bryn Mawr, Penn., exploded with three straight goals to open the action on
Thursday as Davidson crushed nearby Catawba 7-2. Senior Lea Jaeger added a pair of goals in the second half, while
freshmen Kathryn Clark and Whitney Vogler rounded out the scoring for the afternoon.

Davidson then matched up with Nor-Pac conference rival Appalachian State on Saturday, where Bateman again paced the Wildcats with two
goals on their way to a 3-1 victory.

Mike Anderson

Agnes Bateman scored five goals in two games. “It was great to get the win,” said head coach Jen Halliday.
“Anytime we beat Appalachian it’s a good win because it’s such a heated rivalry.” Junior goaltender Amanda Mordavsky preserved the
victory with ten saves, including a handful of crucial plays in the game’s waning minutes. The victory improves Davidson to
4-5 on the season, with a 2-1 record against Nor-Pac competition.

In other weekend action, California felled the mighty Cardinal, handing Stanford their second Nor-Pac loss of the week and reopening
competition for the regular-season title. The Golden Bears emerged victorious in the triple-overtime match decided by penalty strokes, improving their
Nor-Pac record to a perfect 3-0. It was Stanford’s second-consecutive triple-overtime Nor-Pac loss—the Cardinal fell to Southwest Missouri State last
Tuesday by a score of 1-0 in another match decided by penalty strokes.

On Sunday, Davidson welcomed back stars of the near and distant past for a Homecoming Weekend Alumni competition. Davidson field
hockey alums from as far back as the Class of 1980 slopped through the muddy grass field as the current
Wildcats edged their predecessors 5-2. Sophomore Chiqui Sanchez-Ross, playing her first-ever season of competitive field hockey, showed strong promise in
the goal, allowing just two goals against some of Davidson’s best-ever talent.

The Wildcats host Radford and Catawba this weekend, with a chance to creep ahead of the .500 mark. “Radford is
an absolutely huge game for us,” said Halliday. “It’s one of our most heated rivalries, and a win will put
us at the .500 mark. It will wipe our slate clean and entirely dig us out of the hole we
made for ourselves early in the season.” Both games start at 2:00.
