By Dave Moncure
Staff Writer

After leading the women’s soccer team to a record 13 wins, senior Ginny Dye was recently named to the 1999
National Soccer Coaches Association of America’s Academic All-American Team. Dye is only the second women’s soccer player in Davidson history
to be named to the Academic All-American team. Kelly Ammann was awarded the same honor in 1997.

“I am happy and honored to have such a wonderful career,” Dye said. “And to meet so many wonderful people
and to have had the experiences that I have had at Davidson is better than any award.”

For Dye, this award was the culmination of a remarkable college career, both on the soccer field and in the
classroom. From the time she entered Davidson as a freshman, Dye was an integral part of the soccer team and
one of its most consistent and talented players.

“She has always worked as hard as anyone else in practice and on the field,” head coach Kevin Hundley lauded.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dye, who admitted to adjusting well to collegiate soccer, recorded 15 goals and four assists in her first two seasons
as a Wildcat. As a junior, she recorded seven goals, three assists, and 17 points.

“You have to be very disciplined from the start,” Dye said.

During her senior year, Dye led the team with six goals, 10 assists—which tied the school record for a single
season—and 22 points. Dye was also the team’s co-captain. Dye has started every game of her four-year Davidson career and
has been the team’s leading scorer for the last four seasons.

Aside from Dye’s amazing on-the-field achievements, she maintained a stellar 3.88 GPA. Dye, a psychology major and a math minor,
said that she learned early how to balance academics and athletics.

“She never sacrificed either her athletics or academics,” Hundley remarked. “She epitomizes what Davidson College students do well—balance activities.”

True, many Davidson students are able to perform extraordinarily well in the classroom and on the athletic field. A nearly
flawless career, however, in both disciplines is very unique.

Davidson wrestling continues to improve
Ian Kaplan dominates SoCon competition

COMPILED FROM Press RELEASES
Davidson S.I.D.

GREENSBORO, N.C. — Seniors Ian Kaplan (157) and Miles Cox (125) both won but it wasn’t enough as UNC Greensboro
defeated Davidson 32-9 in Southern Conference wrestling Jan. 29 at Fleming Gym in Greensboro, N.C. Kaplan defeated Gregg Fox 9-6,
while Cox edged Wes Gibson by the score 6-5. Freshman Grant Doornbos earned the only other victory for the Wildcats
in an 8-4 decision. Despite falling to 3-8 (0-2) on the season, Davidson is making meets much more competitive.

“We are very close to knocking off strong Division I programs,” coach Oddo said. “We just need to take the
next step to finishing the close matches.”

The Wildcats travel to Appalachian State February 5 at 1 p.m. for another SoCon meet.

DAVIDSON, N.C. — Duquesne got off to a hot start in the opening match as freshman Bill Boeh (157) defeated
Davidson’s senior two-time national qualifier, Ian Kaplan, 8-4. The Dukes went on to win 26-6 Jan. 28 in Belk Arena.
The meet was far more competitive than the score indicated as five of the matches were decided by three points
or less. Senior Matt Rohaly (174) was the only wrestler to earn a convincing win as he picked up a
technical fall over Ed Haas (4:05) to improve his record to 23-5. Rohaly was a national qualifier in his sophomore
season.

“It was a big win for us,” head coach John Hartupee said. “A lot of matches could have gone either
way.”

Junior Dan Carman (133) lost a heartbreaking match 6-5 after a late takedown in the third period. Freshman Wes Wooten
(184) wrestled a very close match with Duquesne’s Jeff Mosley as the score remained tied at 1-1 throughout the majority
of the match before Mosley gained the advantage and earned a two-point takedown.

LEXINGTON, Va.— Senior Ian Kaplan (157) continued to dominate in tournament competition as he recorded three falls to capture the
title at the Washington & Lee Invitational Jan. 22. Kaplan, a three-time winner of the meet, was named the tournament’s
outstanding wrestler and improved his overall record to 18-6. Senior Miles Cox (125) took third with a major decision and
a fall (3:14) and freshman Wes Wooten (184) took third with a fall (4:02) and a pair of decisions. Freshman
Grant Doornbos (141), junior Anthony Albert, and senior Bo Bickerstaff (197) each took fourth place. The Wildcats finished second in
the W&L Tour for the third straight year.

SWARTHMORE, Penn. — Senior Ian Kaplan (14-6) took first at 157 after a 3-1 overtime victory over Roger Williams’ Peter
Doncet. The Wildcats (39) finished third in the Jan. 15 Swarthmore Invitational, four points behind second-place Washington & Lee (43),
as York College won handily with a score of 111. Freshman Grant Doornbos (141) continued his hot streak, going 4-1
to capture third place, improving his record to 10-4. Jeff Bender (165) and Wes Wooten (184) also took third place
while Bo Bickerstaff (197) grabbed fourth for Davidson. The group of eight wrestlers continued to wrestleCompetitively in every meet, despite
conceding two weight classes, and head coach Tom Oddo is excited about the effort from his squad. “We are in
every meet and that is a testament to the competitiveness of these guys,” said Oddo. “We are consistently improving and
if we continue to do well in the second half of the season, we can make a run at some
individual [titles] in the Southern Conference.”

Hundley also noted that Dye’s academic achievements highlighted the Davidson athletic program as a whole. The women’s soccer team combined
for an overall 3.12 GPA during the 1998-99 year, which is the sixth year in a row the cumulative team
GPA has been above 3.0. Other achievements by Dye during her career include becoming the third leading scorer in Davidson
history, the sixth best all-time scorer in Southern Conference history, and a 4-time all-conference team player. Dye’s award exemplifies the
meaning of a student-athlete. Hundley commented that Dye never once complained about athletics getting in the way of academics or
vice versa. Dye is the perfect reflection of a Davidson student—one who is able to excel in multiple areas.

Sports Information Department

Dye has 28 career goals.

A two-minute sideline drill

The rags-to-riches quarterback—who less than a decade ago was stocking grocery shelves and collecting food stamps—added the final chapter in
this fairy tale story on Sunday by capturing the MVP Trophy from Super Bowl XXXIV. But unlike Joe Montana in
Super Bowl XXIII, the St. Louis Rams’ quarterback didn’t commandeer a spectacular come-from-behind victory. Instead, 2000’s Super Bowl MVP watched
from the sideline as the sands of time whisked toward 00:00. For any other quarterback, it would have been an
infuriatingly frustrating scenario. But for Kurt Warner, it was perfectly becoming. A man who has ceaselessly invested his trust and
faith in things greater than himself, Warner watched and waited with a fitting patience and humility. Then the final tick
sounded and his teammates elevated the former Arena-League quarterback atop their shoulders. He directed them over toward his wife in
the front row, kissed her, and in a matter of minutes had been named the Super Bowl MVP.

“First things first, I want to thank my Lord and Savior,” Warner said after accepting the MVP Trophy on the
post-game podium. And in a matter of moments, the boundaries of franchises and allegiances came crashing down. As the unlikely
hero of a Super Bowl season forwent the world’s biggest ego trip to offer gratitude to his Lord, he offered
a glimpse of something far greater than any football game.

Get in the game: Spring intramurals

Even under a blanket of snow and ice, the spring intramural season is in full swing. Below is all the
information you'll need to get your team together and become a part of some of the most intense athletic competition
this side of Ericssan Stadium.

Co-ed volleyball will play according to the same rules that govern college volleyball. All teams are co-ed and each team
must have at least two women participating in each contest. All matches will be played on the upper Intramural courts
in the Baker Sports Complex.

Roster Due: Tuesday, March 21
Captain’s Meeting: Thursday, March 23 @ Wildcat Den 7:00 p.m.
Play Begins: Tuesday, March 28 @ Upper Imac courts 1:00 p.m.

Co-ed softball will use the same rules as high school slow pitch softball. All teams are co-ed. Each team must
have at least four women, with at least two in the line-up at each contest. All games will be played
on Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday afternoons. Sunday’s games will begin at 1:00 p.m. Games during the weekday afternoons will begin
at 4:00 p.m. All games will be played on the Intramural field.

Roster Due: Monday, March 20
Captain’s Meeting: Wednesday, March 22 @ Wildcat Den 7:00 p.m.
Play Begins: Sunday, March 26 @ Imac Field 1:00 p.m.

Small field soccer uses the same rules as college and high school soccer. All games will be played on the
Intramural fields. Each game will consist of two twenty-minute halves. Each team will field 5 players.

Rosters Due: Wednesday, March 22
Captain’s Meeting: Wednesday, March 22
Play Begins: Tuesday, March 26

Frisbee golf is like regular golf except it is played with a frisbee instead of a ball and club. The
frisbee golf course is out at the Davidson College lake campus. This is a one-day tournament in which the lowest
score of the day wins.

Registration: Friday, April 7
First round begins: Friday, April 7 3:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.

2nd ANNUAL 3 ON 3 BASKETBALL, 4 ON 4 VOLLEYBALL & SLAM DUNK CONTEST

This will be a day-long event held on Saturday, May 6. All activities will be held on the courts behind
Apartment F. The basketball games begin at 2:00 p.m. and the volleyball at 4:00 p.m. There will be men, women,
and co-ed teams participating. The slam dunk contest will take place after the 3 on 3 championship game. This should
be a fun afternoon with hotdogs, chips, drinks, and prizes awarded.

Basketball registration: 1:00 p.m.
Volleyball registration: 3:00 p.m.
Slam dunk registration: 3:00 p.m.
