By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

The thin line between victory and defeat was more than metaphoric at Belk Arena Saturday afternoon. With just one second
on the clock and cradling a precarious three-point advantage, stunned Wildcat fans watched as Appalachian’s Tiffany Chappell buried a shot
from the top of the arc that threatened to send the contest into overtime. But thanks to the use of
Fox Sports South’s court-side replay monitors, officials ruled that Chappell’s foot was on the three-point line and Davidson escaped with
an exhilarating 68-67 victory over the Lady Mountaineers.

“It was by far the most exciting game we've played in this year,” said head coach John Filar. “The student
body was fantastic. They pushed us over the top.”

Fox Sports’ Southern Conference analyst Debbie Leonard agreed. “This was the best conference game that I’ve seen this year, that’s
for certain. I give a lot of credit to Coach Filar, he’s done an excellent job with this team over
the course of the season.”

Katy Kamp continued on her late-season tear, leading all scorers with 20 points while capturing nine rebounds. “Katy Kamp, what
a game!!” exclaimed Leonard, who called the action for the television broadcast.

With the one-point victory, Davidson avenged a crushing setback at the hands of Appalachian State last month at Varsity Gym.
“It was a great effort tonight,” said Kamp. “We gave it all we had.”

Jen O’Brien was just one assist shy of a triple-double, scoring 18 points and grabbing a game-high 11 rebounds. The
final 13-point run of this comeback victory could have very well symbolized the past, present, and future of Wildcat basketball—as
O’Brien and her protégé, sophomore guard Janna Magette, scored Davidson’s final 13 down the stretch. Magette nailed all four of
her free-throw attempts in the game’s final minute.

“Janna is clutch,” said Filar. “When she’s at the line, I just feel so comfortable. She’s a gamer.”

Bethany Schott and Meagan Gleason were also key figures down the stretch. “I really credit Meagan for the way she’s
playing,” said Fox Sports’ Leonard, “but I also credit Coach Filar for finding her in that offense. Meagan Gleason has
meant a lot to this Davidson team.”

Davidson traveled to Spartanburg, S.C. late Monday, riding the wave of back-to-back victories. A victory there would return the Wildcats
to the six spot of the Southern Conference, a seed that would receive an automatic bye in the first round
of the conference tournament.

Class of 2000 trio leaves its mark on the record books
O’Brien, Kamp, and Gleason to play last game in Belk Arena Saturday

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Jen O’Brien, Katy Kamp, and Meagan Gleason will be honored Saturday as the Wildcats celebrate Senior Day against top-ranked Chattanooga.
One of the most distinguished classes ever to pace the Belk Arena hardwood, the Class of 2000 trio amassed a
remarkable 58-45 record over its four-year career. That’s notable on face value, but it’s all the more impressive considering Davidson's
overall record in the four seasons before O’Brien, Kamp, and Gleason: 32-69.

“The Class of 2000 has given me such fantastic memories,” says head coach John Filar. “Not just as a coach,
but as a person—I’ve been honored to know these three fantastic young ladies.”

At the heart and soul of that Class of 2000 has been a 5-6 point guard that sports No. 12.
O’Brien’s name covers the Wildcat record book like bricks do campus sidewalks. She is first in career points, first in
steals, first in assists, first in 3-point field goals made, first in free-throws made, third in 3-point shooting percentage, and
fourth in rebounds.

“Jen O’Brien is probably the best all-around player I have ever coached,” said Filar. “She does so many things just
so well.”

But the past four years have been far from a solo act. Katy Kamp has emerged as one of the
finest post players in Wildcat history. She will finish the season among Davidson’s top-five in career field goals, rebounds, and
shooting percentage. And the 6-1 senior from Stevensville, Mich., has been saving the best for last. Kamp has shined down
the stretch during her senior campaign. Over the past seven contests, she has averaged 15 points and 7 rebounds per
contest—including a26-point performance against ETSU Feb. 1. Referring to Kamp’s surge in the last half of this season, Filar says,
“That’s just a credit to the type of worker that Katy Kamp is. She’s making a huge difference to us
right now.” “When Katy’s hot, you need to just get out of her way!” warns O’Brien.

The third senior, Meagan Gleason, has left an indelible mark on the program during her fourth and final season. After
earning the starting nod in the pre-season, this spirited guard from Juneau, Alaska, has been the Southern Conference’s most deadly
sharpshooter this year, connecting on 45.8 percent of her 3-point attempts. “Meagan’s been a godsend to us,” says Filar. “She
has just brought so much intensity and so much quickness to our team. Meagan has stepped up huge, she really
has.”

The Class of 2000 flexed their collective muscle last Tuesday, combining for 56 points against long-time foe Furman University. And
in the following game, against Appalachian State at Belk Arena Saturday, the seniors again were the Wildcats’ three leading scorers,
pitching in 51 of the team’s 67 points. “It was time to take a stand,” said Filar. “It really was.
That game was all about the seniors making a statement about what they wanted to be seen as, and how
they wanted to close out their season.” That statement was loud and clear, and it echoes throughout the Southern Conference.

“When you’ve got three senior leaders like John (Filar) has, they’re going to come on strong at the end,” says
Fox Sports commentator Debbie Leonard. “They’re not going to finish their careers without doing something outstanding.” “That’s leadership. That’s maturity.
And that’s experience,” says Filar. “It’s great to have those seniors coming through for us at this time of the
year.”

Mike Anderson

Meagan Gleason

Mike Anderson

Wildcats knock off Furman

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

GREENVILLE, S.C.—Chalk this one up for the Class of 2000. Meagan Gleason, Katy Kamp, and Jen O’Brien were an unconquerable
trio here last Tuesday night, combining for 56 points and leading the Wildcats to a crucial 69-54 victory over second-ranked
Furman University.

“It was by far their best game as a class,” said head coach John Filar. “Meagan Gleason put on an
outstanding performance. It was the hungriest I’ve ever seen Katy Kamp. And Jen O’Brien’s statistics across the board were amazing.”

Gleason shot 3-for-4 from behind the arc, on her way to a game- and career-high 21 points. And the fiery
guard’s trademark defensive intensity helped shut down the Paladin offensive flow. “Meagan harassed the devil out of (Furman point guard)
Tara Charles,” praised Filar. “Tara was exhausted by the end of the game thanks to Meagan’s defensive pressure.”

While Gleason dominated the perimeter, Katy Kamp controlled the inside. The 6-1 senior turned in a stellar performance, scoring 19
points and pulling down five rebounds against some of the best post players in the conference. “When Katy’s hot you
need to just get out of her way,” said O’Brien. “That was pure self-motivation on Katy’s part,” said Filar. “She
played with such a fire. If Katy can stay that way for the remainder of this season then we have
a really nice ride ahead of us.”

And as usual, Jen O’Brien orchestrated the punches. The 5-6 point guard flirted with a quadruple-double, totaling 16 points, 11
assists, 8 steals, and 7 rebounds. “That’s just tremendous,” said Filar. “There’s no doubt in my mind that Jen O’Brien
is the player of the year in the conference. She does way, way too many things. There may be some
players that do one thing better than her, but nobody does as many things as well as she does.”

Jackie Smith, the pre-season coach’s pick for conference player of the year, had high words of praise for her long-time
adversary. “Jen O’Brien’s biggest strength is that you never know what she’s going to do,” said Smith. “She’ll drive on
you. She’ll stop-and-pop. She’ll go right or left. She’s just so hard to guard, you never know which way she’s
going to beat you.”

O’Brien and Smith have been vying for the conference’s top honor in each of the past two seasons. Though Smith
won the individual accolade last season, O’Brien has now guided the Wildcats to four victories over Furman in the past
five meetings. “It’s a nice rivalry we have between Furman and Davidson,” said O’Brien. “People try to pit (Jackie and
me) against each other, but I don’t feel that way. It’s nothing personal. But they are a great team, and
so it’s always a bit more special when you beat Furman.”
