By JENN Hiccins Staff Writer

After seven straight home games, the Davidson College women’s soccer team took their two-game conference winning streak on the road, traveling to the College of Charleston and Georgia Southern University over the weekend. The Cats, who began the weekend with a record of 2-0 in the Southern Conference (8-2 overall), picked up one win and one loss on their trip south. On Friday, the women defeated the Charleston Cougars (1-7, 0-1 SoCon) 2-1. On Sunday, however, the Wildcats were handed their first conference loss by Georgia Southern, falling 3-2 in regulation.

In Friday’s game, the Wildcats took the lead early from a penalty kick taken by Leigh Anne Hoskins ‘04 in the 12th minute. The Davidson offense continued to press hard throughout the first half hoping to net another goal, while the Cougars made numerous attempts to get the equalizer (outshooting the Cats 5-4). Neither team could penetrate the opposing defense to net a goal, keeping the score 1-0 going into the locker rooms at the half.

The second half was dominated by the Cats who held the Cougars to only five shots. Unfortunately, one of those shots made it into the back of the net halfway through the second half. With just over 30 minutes remaining, College of Charleston forward Alison Davies slipped the ball past Corrigan to tie the game at one all. Yet eight minutes later, Hoskins saw an opportunity for the Cats to get back on top off a feed from Heather Maloney ‘03. With a good touch, Hoskins used her finesse to once again lay the ball in past Charleston goalkeeper Kelly Sweetingham. The Cats managed to hold on to capture the 2-1 win over the Cougars and improve to 3-0 in the Southern Conference as they traveled to Georgia Southern on Sunday.

Unlike the College of Charleston, the Eagles of Georgia Southern appeared to be underestimated by many in the Southern Conference. Not only did the Eagles (10-2, 2-1) snap their two-game losing skid in their 3-2 victory on Sunday, but they also ended the Cats' three-game conference winning streak. The Wildcats were put in a deep hole early when they allowed two unanswered goals in the first six minutes of the game. In a quick push up the field, Georgia Southern’s Janis Milne, off an assist from Robin Thirsk, ripped a shot from 35 yards out that zoomed out of senior goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan’s reach and into the back of the goal. Two minutes later, an aggressive Davidson defense got the best of themselves when a bad tackle turned into a Georgia Southern advantage. Robin Thirsk converted on the penalty kick to make the Eagle lead 2-0 just six minutes into the game.

Georgia Southern maintained their comfortable lead throughout the first half, entertaining only two shots by the Wildcat offense. This is atypical play from a Davidson squad which is averaging around nine shots per half this season. Overall, the first half belonged to the Eagles, who seemed more than prepared to garner the glory of ending the Cats' conference win streak. Yet the second half belonged to the Cats and the tenacious offensive play of Heather Maloney. Eight minutes into the half, Maloney was sideswiped in the box and promptly awarded the penalty kick. Maloney easily placed the ball past Georgia Southern goalkeeper Kari Gast to get the Cats on the board. The Wildcats continued to pressure the Eagle defense, taking 12 shots and forcing Gast to make seven big saves to hold off the equalizer. But just when the Cats were feeling the momentum of the game starting to swing their way, a Georgia Southern freshman took it away from them. Just minutes after Maloney’s PK, Georgia Southern forward Genevieve Ward tapped in the game-winner off a corner kick by teammate Amanda Bernard.

The Cats did not appear ready to concede though because they continued to look for goals. Finally, Heather Maloney got free of the Eagle defense with 4:31 remaining in the game to bring the Wildcats to within one of the tie. The Cats scrambled until the final seconds where Mary Ellen Schaefer and Leigh Anne Hoskins both had opportunities to score. Mary Ellen Schaefer ‘03 took a shot that deflected off a Georgia Southern defender and ended up at Hoskins' feet. Hoskins, with less than 5 seconds left, took the final shot of the game which hit just off the top of the crossbar, leaving the final score 3-2 Georgia Southern. The Cats finish their road...Series this weekend over Fall Break where they travel to Cambridge, MA to face Vermont and Harvard.

Volleyball picks up big non-conference win over Wake

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

After Davidson’s men’s hoops squad stunned Wake Forest on the floor of Belk Arena last spring, head coach Bob McKillop told reporters, “This was kind of like getting your lunch money back from the bully.” The Wildcat volleyball program got a taste of that same sweet revenge last Saturday night, earning their first-ever win over an ACC opponent with a five-game victory over the Wake’s Demon Deacons.

“This was our biggest win of the season so far,” said an elated head coach Tami Darwin. “It was far and away the best we’ve played this year.”

Davidson pounced to a quick 14-8 lead in the first game and then weathered a Wake rally before hanging on to earn a 17-15 game one victory. The teams went on to split the first four games, but it was all Davidson in game five to win three games to two.

“Our girls played a great fifth game,” said Darwin. “So many different people stepped up at crucial points and made big plays.”

Senior Mara Mordini put the exclamation point on the win, pounding away an emphatic kill for the match’s final point. Mordini’s 19-kill/28-dig effort earned her a second-consecutive Southern Conference Player of the Week award.

Women’s basketball coach John Filar, who has also coached competitive volleyball and continues to follow the sport at the college level, marveled at Mordini’s effort. “Mara Mordini could play for any team in the ACC,” he said. “No doubt.”

Another key pair of contributors on the evening were junior Jennifer Ortega and sophomore Rebecca Teichgraeber, who tallied 16 and 11 kills, respectively.

Wake Forest’s head coach Valorie Baker predicted that the Davidson match would be “an excellent opportunity” for her team to earn an easy non-conference win. “Player for player, I think we have a stronger lineup,” she swanked. But Davidson was more than up for the challenge.

“We’ve had our sights set on Wake for a long time,” said Darwin. “We knew that beating them would be a big confidence-booster for us.”

The victory was Davidson’s third straight five-game win, but it came on the heels of a string of less-than-stellar conference performances. Earlier last week, Davidson had been pushed to five games by two of the conference’s weaker teams, Georgia Southern and UNC Greensboro.

“Wake was a big win for us,” said senior co-captain Lauren Schultz. “And it came at a really good time. A win like this proves a lot to us.”

Darwin agreed. “This game is a huge building block for us. We can take this back to the conference knowing that we’ve beaten a strong ACC team.”

The win improved Davidson to 10-6 overall. Their 6-1 record in Southern Conference action puts them back at the top of Southern Conference, where they are tied with ETSU for first place. The Wildcats face perhaps their most important weekend of Southern Conference action thus far, hosting both Appalachian State (who defeated another ACC powerhouse, Clemson, earlier this season) and ETSU.

Davidson Football to officially join Pioneer League in 2001

Press Release

The Pioneer Football League will expand to nine schools for the 2001 season, commissioner Patty Viverito has announced. Austin Peay, Davidson, Jacksonville, and Morehead State will join current PFL members Butler, Dayton, Drake, San Diego, and Valparaiso to comprise the nine-member league. Membership, including conference scheduling, will be effective for the 2001 season.

There will be two divisions (Northern — Butler, Dayton, Drake, Valparaiso, San Diego; and Southern — Austin Peay, Davidson, Jacksonville, and Morehead State). Each division will conduct round-robin competition which will solely determine the divisional champion. Selected cross-divisional games will be scheduled, but will not count in divisional standings.

The PFL will establish a championship game featuring the champions of each division. The first title game will be played on November 17, 2001, at the site of the North division’s champion.

“The addition of Austin Peay, Davidson, Jacksonville, and Morehead State brings to fruition our intended desire to expand the Pioneer Football League with like-minded non-scholarship institutions,” says commissioner Patty Viverito. “It expands our conference schedule in a meaningful way, and offers a great postseason opportunity for our student-athletes.”

The 2000 season marks the eighth year for the Pioneer Football League. The PFL is committed to operating a quality football program for the benefit of student-athletes and the university community.