THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Casey Sams
Staff Writer

At the request of many students, Davidson College will install a new phone system this summer. The new system, which will not cost students additional money, will be ready for the fall semester.

The administration acknowledged inadequacies in the current system, and ITS officials explained that an entire overhaul was the “cheapest and best solution.”

The proposal for a new system was first floated on November 15, and since then officials from ITS, Physical Plant, and RLO have met and reviewed a variety of offers from different phone companies. After much bantering and bargaining, the school selected the PBX system provided by BellSouth, signing the contract on March 8.

Currently, the Davidson campus uses phone switches that provide service to our campus and the towns of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville.

The introduction of the PBX, or Private Branch Exchange, will give Davidson control over the phone service. The system will be operated by a closet-sized system located in the southern end of Chambers’ basement. This new equipment will enable the college to maintain complete control over local and long-distance phone services.

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

Answering a campus-wide cry, the new system allows every student to have his or her own phone line, which will correspond to their voicemail number. This number will be transferable from room to room, allowing students to keep their same number all four years. Voicemail, too, is expected to be a much more user-friendly system.

Other new features include a Caller ID system and a message waiting option, but the administration is not certain whether an additional charge will be incurred with the use of these services. Only certain telephones have the necessary equipment to use Caller ID and message waiting, but students are not required to buy phones with these features. Any type of phone will work with the system. ITS will have a sign-up sheet available later in the year for phones that could make use of the new options. Faculty and staff members will be provided with a digital phone that is programmable and has Caller ID and message waiting lights, but they will be only for use with the Davidson phone system.

AT&T will continue to be the long-distance provider for at least the next year at which point the carrier is open to change. And while students’ long-distance cards will stay the same, the rate will drop to ten cents a minute.

Instead of using “896” and “892” numbers, Davidson College will have the entire block of “894” numbers. It is not yet clear whether or not faculty members and students will be able to retain “896” and “892” numbers.

ITS staff visited the Student Government Association on Tuesday night to field questions regarding the new system. The Administrative Advisory Group (AAG) is sponsoring a question-and-answer session for faculty and staff on April 4 at 12:30 in the 900 Room.

More information is available at the ITS web page: www.davidson.edu/computing/network/telecom/news.phones.htm

Novelist, journalist John Marks delivers speech at Davidson

By Seth Davis
News Editor

Novelist and journalist John Marks ‘85, returned to Davidson on Monday, March 20. The author of The Wall read from his work and presented the Charles Lloyd Awards for Nonfiction Prose and the R. Windley Hall Awards for First Year Writing.

While at Davidson Marks, a German major, won the Rawley Turner Award for acting, and the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing. The Wall was a New York Times Notable Book. Marks has worked for U.S. News and World Report and as a freelance journalist.

Before reading from his new novel, Marks presented the awards. Freshman Dorothy Meiburg won the Windley Hall award for her collection of poems “The Powers that Be.” Abbey Winant won second place honors while Luke O’Hara received an Honorable Mention.

Brooke Schaffner won the Charles Lloyd award while Kristin Taylor and Allison Dolph both garnered second place honors.

Marks read from the prologue to his new novel, tentatively titled The Blue Age, due out sometime next year.