By SEAN BURKE
Staff Writer

The Wildcat baseball team, missing three key players, won one game out of three against visiting East Tennessee State this weekend. Although the first may have been out of their hands due to some great hitting from the Buccaneers, the Wildcats' second game victory and strong performance Sunday showed that this team will not fold despite the hard hand it has been dealt.

Citing the injuries of ace Wes Self and big hitter Ben Brown as “a challenge,” Ryan Stroker remains confident that his team will stay solid despite the absence of these two key players. “We can’t let it get to us,” said Stroker. “Ben and Wes have been a big part of the lineup but we got guys who can step up.”

Stroker was most likely referring to pitchers Mark Wells, who earned the second game victory after solid pitching from Jamie McDonald, and Derrick Wolpert, who pitched four solid innings in the third game without an earned run before giving up three in the fifth. Steady, solid offense from James Marino, Jack Purcell, and Tim Frend, whose homer in the second game was the clincher, shows that the Cats are ready to meet the challenge that is in front of them.

After taking the second game, the Wildcats seemed likely to make a run at it in the third game when they loaded the bases in the seventh with one out, down two runs. Cassidy Lundin stepped to the plate and hit a rocket to the shortstop, who made a great play to field the ball and pulled off a double play to end the rally. Lundin seemed safe at first but the umpire thought otherwise. “We hit the ball solid the whole game,” Matt Hood said. “They just made some great plays in the field.”

The first game of the weekend was taken from the Wildcats early as three players for the Bucs combined for twelve hits, four of which were home runs. Freshman Chad Boruff contributed three home runs by himself and Danny Pugh had the fourth. Davidson is on the road today (Wednesday), playing the nationally-ranked UNC Tarheels in Chapel Hill.

TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

April 6, 2000 - WINTHROP EAGLES @ Wildcat Park, 3:00 p.m.
Eagles’ Record (as of 3/31): 20-15

Back from Paradise: The Eagles’ game with Davidson will mark their return to the continental U.S. after a week-long stay in Hawaii battling the likes of Pepperdine, Lewis-Clark State, and Hawaii. The Eagles went 2-4 while in Hawaii from March 27 through April 1 and will be hungry for a win when they visit Wildcat Park Thursday.

Attitude drives Wildcats’ 2000 turnaround
By TREY RAYBURN
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team is in the midst of an incredible turnaround from a disappointing season last year. In their 1999 campaign, the Wildcats won less than 20 games and failed to make the Southern Conference tournament. When the team dropped its first few games of this season, pitcher Jamie McDonald thought “Here we go again.” But the team rallied and won its next six contests, and since then the team has shown heart and determination in pursuit of victory. And it has paid off. The 2000 Wildcats headed into Wednesday’s bout with the Tarheels with a respectable 19-16 record, 11-10 in the Southern Conference. That’s 8 more wins already than the Wildcats recorded all of 1999. The Wildcats have battled to overcome difficult setbacks including losses of Ben Brown, Toby Crabtree, and Wes Self due to injury.Still, they continue to win ball games and make a statement to the rest of the conference. “We have played better defense and we have pitched better,” head coach Dick Cooke explained simply. “We have also done a good job controlling the other team’s running game as evidenced by the fact that Billy Ryan and James Marino have thrown out 50 percent of the runners and we have only allowed 20 stolen bases in 32 games.”

Catcher Billy Ryan cited the confidence of the entire team as well as the improved pitching this year. “We're playing with confidence,” said Ryan. “We know we can play with, and more importantly, beat, anyone we step on the field with.” Ryan also mentioned that the addition of assistant coach Damon Towe has helped as well.

McDonald agreed with Ryan that the biggest change between this and last year’s team was the confidence factor, but he credited the offense with making the pitching staff's job much easier. That shows the unity and unselfishness of this year’s team. Pitchers give credit to the hitters, and the hitters all say that the improved pitching has allowed them to relax and not feel so pressured to hit.

Cooke pointed to the importance of better pitching and stronger defense. “Better defense means the pitchers don’t try to be too perfect,” said Cooke. “In the same vein, if the defense senses the pitchers will put the ball in play they will be on their toes and will be more likely to make the plays.”

Cassidy Lundin added that team unity and confidence have allowed the Wildcats to continue in spite of injury. “The team has faith in everyone and believes that it can win with any lineup on the field,” said Lundin.

Except for the addition of Coach Towe and an exceptional freshman class, the 2000 Wildcat roster looks much like 1999’s. What has changed about the team is its attitude. No longer do they expect to lose, even when facing traditionally powerful teams such as Duke. They come into each contest hungry for a win and united behind each other. This year, winning is the norm, not the exception.

April 8-9, 2000 - APPALACHIAN STATE MOUNTAINEERS @ Boone, N.C.
Mountaineers’ Record (as of 4/4): 11-21
Scouting Report: App State opened its 2000 campaign with 19 straight losses, but then went on a tear, winning their next six contests. The Mountaineers are coming off a three-game SoCon series against Furman, the last game of which added to App State’s win total.

Track breaks two school records
Both the Davidson men’s and women’s track & field team competed in the 2000 adidas Raleigh Relays hosted by N.C. State this weekend. Two Wildcat records were set at the meet. Senior Brent Ferrell set a new standard in the 10,000 meters. His time of 30:14.96 was good for an eighth place finish and eclipsed the previous mark of 30:50.9 which had stood since the 1978 season. The men’s 4x800 meter relay team also broke a school record at the meet. The relay’s time of 7:48.05 surpassed the previous best time, 7:52.04, set last season.

Davidson travels to the Duke Invitational next weekend. The meet will be held at the Wallace Wade Stadium in Durham and be hosted by Duke University.

Break The Soda Shop
SINCE 1951
Breakfast Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes
104 S. Main St.
Davidson, NC