The track of the pipeline cuts through the forest and crosses numerous property lines. The pipeline, from page 1 Carolina, swings out across the countryside, straight swaths cut into the landscape obliterating everything save the grass. The trees were all logged off and sold when the companies originally laid their pipes during the first half of the twentieth century. The pipes themselves are laid in the earth and are only visible when monitoring stations surface near secondary roads. Of these, one pipeline is a public service line, Transco runs the other, and the third is owned by a conglomerate of gas suppliers headed and mostly owned by Piedmont. This corporation has certainly benefited from the increased demand for their gas. Over the past year or so they have joined, bought, and formed alliances with several other suppliers. Today they stand as one of the nation’s foremost marketers of natural gas, serving over 708,000 customers in their eight-state southeast region. Now, to meet the growing demand and to expand their growing profit margins, Piedmont has found it necessary to lay more pipes. Fortunately, they can do this right beside the existing ones. Nevertheless, Piedmont is pushing to extend its right-of-way by 40 feet, a measure that has angered local landowners.

Environmental concerns
Many at Davidson feel that this land is too vulnerable to undergo further development. Vagt emphasized that the land in question is “an ecologically, environmentally sensitive area. We've got salamanders and all sorts of things back there.” Dr. Mike Dorcas of the biology department agrees. According to him, “North Davidson is becoming an island of biodiversity among all the farms and Wal-Marts and cement.” Dorcas has been monitoring the populations of reptiles and amphibians on campus for the past two years, including the five different species of salamanders referred to by Vagt. “[The area] is an ecological preserve with a pipeline right through the middle of it. Putting in more pipes will destroy the habitat,” Dorcas explained. Vagt also raised an issue with Piedmont’s past record of land usage. “They claim to restore the additional easement to its original condition once they’re done with it... how are you going to take a forty-year-old tree, chop it down, and then put it back when you’re through?” he protested. Not only would the added easement be harmful, but Vagt also claims that it is completely unnecessary. “First of all, [Piedmont] doesn’t need more than 50 feet if they have any skill at all. I spent almost 20 years in the oil and gas business; I know how much room you need,” remarked Vagt. Vagt served as chairman, president, and chief operating officer at Seagull Energy Corporation. “You don’t need 90 feet if you are reasonable and prudent.”

Local landowners in a huff
Members of the campus community are not the only ones with concerns about Piedmont’s plans. One member of a local family-run business, Mr. Richard McIntosh, had to run the gas workers off his company’s land after they cleared the right-of-way without his knowledge and were in the process of hauling off his trees to sell them for lumber. McIntosh recalled prior encounters with Piedmont. “They tell conflicting stories. They wanted another 50 feet of workspace. I named a price. They paid me half of what we agreed to. They tell stories that are no more true than nothing. “We’ve had this [land] since ’48,” he continued. “They came through here back in ’58. My father let them because they offered him wholesale gas. When he got the bill, it was three times higher than what he was paying for oil. We figured the best thing to do was just shut them down.” Mr. Kenneth Morrow, another landowner farther from campus, has had fewer experiences with the company. “I don’t care one way or another, as long as they don’t do anything outside the 50 feet,” he stated. Morrow was recently informed of Piedmont’s intent to install additional pipelines by a letter, which did not make the planned expansion of the easement clear. McIntosh indicated that he has no intention of allowing Piedmont to gain its proposed 40 feet. “They already have the right-of-way — put it on their 50 feet,” he concluded.

The looming battle
Whether or not those concerned will be able to put a stop to the corporate gas giant remains to be seen. Previously, their plans have been upheld by the N.C. Court of Appeals. The supply of gas is often esteemed as vital to the public good, and its expansion is tacitly encouraged by government and big business. Their financial interests happen to coincide with expanding this beneficial service.

International commentary - impact of missile defense on “the most dangerous place on earth”
By ROSHAN PAUL Special Contributor
Most media coverage about the proposed National Missile Defense (NMD) system has revolved around responses from Russia, the EU, and China. However, both the media and, it seems, the Clinton Administration have largely ignored responses from South Asia, a region of the world that it recently labeled, rather foolishly, “the most dangerous place on Earth.” Furthermore, anything that affects China’s proven right. This will bolster the case of Indian hardliners who advocate further advances in India’s nuclear arsenal to keep up with other nuclear states. Similar to India’s response to China, any changes in India’s nuclear capabilities will prompt reactions from Pakistan. India and Pakistan are mired in conflict over Kashmir, a conflict that is rapidly escalating regional tensions. As the nuclear moderates get undermined, there will be pressure on both governments to increase and improve their respective nuclear capabilities. As incredulous as the American identification actions thatSerious missile threats from “rogue” states as justification for a continental missile defense system will have ramifications for this region. It is also indicative of an aggressive culture that seeks to identify the remotest conceivable threat and then institutes measures to defeat it. Advocates for NMD will come as a heavy blow to the post-Cold War nuclear arms control regime. China, whose long-range nuclear force will be rendered impotent by NMD, would certainly accelerate the modernization and expansion of its arsenal. With the superpowers totally disregarding arms control, what other option does the rest of the world have but to follow in their footsteps?

A modernized Chinese nuclear force and a more defiant attitude will send nervous tremors across the rest of South Asia. Despite China’s declared intentions, modifications in its arsenal and attitude will bear heavily on the nuclear debate in India. For a while now, India has incurred the wrath of the world by refusing to sign off on the Test Ban Treaty, arguing that the nuclear weapon states themselves have no intention of undertaking comprehensive nuclear disarmament. With the further stalling of the arms control agenda, India seems to have been vindicated.

Debt Relief and Jubilee 2000 argue that the rest of the world is not going to make any changes unless the United States does so, for it is the world leader. Similarly, a US decision to deploy NMD, with the ideological and unilateral undercurrents implicit in such a decision, will deeply influence strategic beliefs not only in South Asia but also throughout the world. Other countries could well react by using this decision as an example to follow in terms of their own national security decisions.

As incredulous as the American identification of missile threats from “rogue” states as justification for a continental missile defense system is, it is also indicative of an aggressive culture that seeks to identify the remotest conceivable threat and then institutes measures to defeat it. Unfortunately, this alarmist attitude might be imitated by nations in an attempt to emulate the success, prosperity, and international status enjoyed by the United States.

The effects of the US decision will probably be felt more strongly in India than in Pakistan. Unlike Pakistan, which is more concerned with maintaining regional parity with India, India’s ambitions are extra-regional. India regards itself as an emerging great power. From recent policy decisions, it is clear that the Indian government envisions the transformation of India into a major global player by adapting the development and security policies of its more successful counterparts. The spanner in the works comes from the Pakistani outlook that they must match India in terms of nuclear capabilities. Add this to the ongoing conflict in Kashmir, and you raise the nuclear stakes significantly.

South Asia is home to roughly 45% of the world’s illiterate. In light of this, it seems that there can be no higher priority than to invest in the primary education of these millions, so that they don’t blindly follow the wishes of their self-serving governments. This will achieve the US goal of “national security” infinitely better than the NMD (with all of its technical and operational problems) will.

Finally, the NMD is a powerful indicator from the US that it questions the efficacy of the non-proliferation regime in stemming threats to national security. It communicates the notion that countries must rely on their own resources to deter and ward off such threats, rather than investing those very resources in building a global community of common security interests. It provides fuel for nuclear proponents not just in India, Pakistan, and China, but also the rest of the world as it presumes that nuclear weapons are essential to safeguard national security and retain global strategic advantages. And such a global perception could easily spiral out of control.

---

Choose your lab partners carefully

Saratoga Springs, N.Y. (AP) — Three middle school students are undergoing a month-long series of rabies shots after bringing a dead bat to science class last month. Only the three girls who had contact with the dead bat at the Saratoga Springs school are undergoing rabies shots as a precaution, said Pat Willson, communicable disease coordinator for the Saratoga County Public Health office. Previously, the school left it to parents whether to have their children tested for rabies, officials said.

The series of five shots are given in the arm over a period of one month, Willson said. The first shot is accompanied by one dose or more of immunoglobulin, which is injected in the hip. The treatment is much less painful than the injections given in the stomach in years past, Willson said.

The Saratoga Springs case began when an unidentified middle school student found the dead bat at her bus stop. She and a friend picked it up, using a plastic bag and stick, and brought it in a brown paper bag to their science teacher at school, who promptly discarded it, school officials have said. The mother of the girl who found the bat then called the school, public health officials had the bat tested, and rabies was confirmed on Oct. 26. A note was sent home to parents of the school’s 1,100 students, and custodians disinfected the two classrooms, desks, and wastebaskets, school officials said.

Once rabies symptoms appear, the virus is nearly always fatal to humans. There have been only 28 human cases of rabies since 1990 in the United States, and only four people are known to have survived, all of them in a severely diminished state.