THE DAVIDSONIAN

This cold week seems like the worst time to talk about global warming. A significant, upcoming event makes this timing
necessary though. On February 11th, the Davidson College Board of Trustees will listen to Cool the Planet’s request to withdraw
funding from large companies with a vested financial interest in the denial of the existence of global warming. This is
exactly the right time to divest endowments because businesses like Ford are responding to public pressure to show environmental responsibility
and invest in “the clean revolution.”

You have probably heard something about the negative effects of global warming: glacial melting, rising ocean levels, and increased incidence
of mosquito-borne diseases. Scientists have predicted that extreme weather conditions (such as hurricanes) will increase in frequency if global warming
is not halted. Meanwhile, many people deny the existence of global warming. The most powerful opponent is the Global Climate
Coalition (GCC). The GCC has “contributed more than $63 million to federal candidates and national political parties” to oppose efforts
to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.

The GCC has focused on scientists in the minorities who believe that human-induced global warming does not contribute to sea
level rise. It has ignored the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the world’s leading scientific body studying climate change,
which is made up of more than 2,000 scientists from around the world. The IPCC reported that global warming has
contributed to the four to six inch sea level rise during the last century. The GCC chooses to listen to
science when it suits the GCC’s needs.

Dr. John Christy based his theory of “global cooling” on 17 years of satellite temperature records. An examination of surface
temperatures shows that they have increased. Christy showed that satellite temperatures went down. The rest of the scientific community quickly
pointed out that satellites fall from orbit every year. After the data was adjusted to account for orbital decay, it
showed a temperature increase corresponding to the surface temperature increase. Dr. Christy admitted that his study needed to be reexamined,
but the GCC still touts his original study.

The GCC has opposed mandatory limits on emissions by claiming that its members already act responsibly. For example, [the GCC’s
1999 Inventory of Industry Voluntary Actions] praises automakers for producing vehicles powered by efficient alternatives to fossil fuels; however, it
fails to mention how few of these vehicles are actually sold, or the auto industry’s lobbying battle in Congress against
tougher fuel economy laws. The GCC focuses on “sinks” so as to distract attention from pollution prevention. Carbon sinks absorb
carbon into vegetation and the oceans. However, “in order to keep up with human greenhouse gas emissions, the U.S. would
have to plant a new forest 2.5 times the size of Texas just to absorb carbon dioxide emissions from its
utility companies each year—an impossible goal.”

The good news is that another major corporation, the Ford Motor Co., has pulled out of the GCC, and joined
the GCC’s one organization, the Business Environmental Leadership Council (BELC). The BELC is a coalition of companies that think businesses
“should take concrete steps now in the US and abroad to assess opportunities for emission reductions, establish and meet emission-reduction
objectives, and invest in new, more-efficient products, practices, and technologies.” Ford has pledged “to be a leader in the second
industrial revolution—the clean revolution.” Ford’s withdrawal comes as a major embarrassment to the GCC for two reasons. Ford shows that
there are Fortune 500 companies willing to listen to the concerns of environmentalists and the public’s concern for the environment.
Most of the 21 members of BELC are Fortune 500 major corporations, companies that include United Technologies, Sunoco, DuPont, Boeing,
Weyerhaeuser, Lockheed Martin, Enron, and CH2M HILL.

“When we asked people whether they associated energy and oil with the word...

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
WILL PARKER
Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON
SETH DAVIS

Executive Layout Editor
NUSON KALETT

Op-Ed Editor
CARRIE RILEY

Sports Editor
ANN GREGORY

ERICA SCHWARTZ
BURGIN HARDIN
DAVID JOHNSTON

International News
CADER HOWARD

Features Editor
GAMBOA

Editor Emeritus
MICHAEL KRUSE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.Progress or with the word pollution - almost half said
pollution,” John Browne, CEO of BP Amoco, said at the recent Conference on Corporate Social Responsibility in London, “We make
mistakes. But we try to learn from the mistakes, and we’re gradually building a track record of performance in line
with our objective.” Who would object to corporate responsibility?

Ford’s decision also shows that major corporations are willing to find profitable ways to do business while acting environmentally responsible.
For example, BP Amoco “has pledged to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions 10 percent below 1990 levels by the year 2010
- double the level agreed to by the world’s industrial nations in Kyoto, Japan. (The United States Senate has refused
to ratify the treaty.) General Motors is developing an electric vehicle, and Toyota is making “a hybrid electric car that
gets 66 miles per gallon and emits half the carbon dioxide of a normal car.” Other examples include Boeing, upgrading
the efficiency of its lights, which reduced lighting electricity use by up to 90 percent and reduced Boeing’s air pollution
by more than 100,000 tons of carbon dioxide, 8,000 tons of sulfur dioxide, and 4,000 tons of nitrogen oxide a
year. The payback period (time when an investment pays off) is two years.

Small businesses have done the same. Centerplex of Seattle has “lowered its electricity consumption by 55 percent by using more
efficient lighting and better windows, occupancy sensors, insulation, and programmable thermostats.” The payback period would have been 4.5 years, but
the local utility company subsidized two-thirds of the new equipment’s cost, making the payback period 1.5 years.

The move toward environmentally responsible corporate behavior is inevitable. Some companies are learning to swim before it floods. Some companies,
like members of the Global Climate Coalition, who are stubbornly clinging to irresponsible behavior, need a gentle financial push from
investors like Davidson College. The first step is to ask nicely. Cool the Planet asks that Davidson express its frustration
with the GCC’s misinformation campaigns. Step 2 involves the threat to withdraw endowment funds from GCC members. Step 3 is
to follow through on that threat, a swift kick where it counts to get the GCC’s attention.

A college’s actions can be very powerful. UW (Seattle) and Stanford made the noise that convinced Ford to withdraw. Let’s
see what Davidson can do.

Matt Johnston ‘00

Got an opinion? Tell us about it. Write for Op-Ed!! Send submissions to Erica Schwartz (704.896.6574) erschwartz@davidson.edu. All submissions must
be received by 6 PM on Sunday evening. The Davidsonian reserves the right to edit all submissions.

Sportsman, from page 8.

I could count, but that has nothing to do with whether or not he is fat. I understand yelling at
bad calls or when someone is obviously throwing elbows or trying to trip one of our players, but I think
that most of us should have gotten over that stage that relies solely on looks in order to conjure up
appropriate insults. Come on, Davidson! For the past three games, I have watched us offend opposing teams over and over
again. The saddest part, though, is when we lose. After screaming obscenities at anyone not wearing black and red, we
have to deal with the other teams’ fans giving us smug little looks as they cheer and march joyfully out
of the stands. We are simply giving them the opportunity to say; “I don’t see you cheering now.” We are
asking for people to leave with a pretty demeaning impression of us, saying that all we did the entire game
was act like idiots. Visitors who do not have the privilege of witnessing one of our basketball games leave telling
people how nice we are; visitors from schools in the Southern Conference leave saying we are annoying brats. Let’s just
try to grow up. I fully support getting up and yelling when something was done wrong, but we will come
away looking like a much better school if we show everyone how mature we can be by not calling people
names and making sexual references when yelling at the refs. Sportsmanship is an important part of playing the game, and
there are easy ways to support our school in a positive manner. Yell at the lousy calls all you want,
but please do not forget that, ideally, everyone, including the opposing team, should have a good time no matter how
irritating or overrated they are.

Joy Gerdy ‘02
