Bernard and Booker re-united 3000 miles away

By Witt Roberson
Sports Editor

When Wayne Bernard and Nick Booker get together, it doesn’t take long for the conversation topic to shift to California basketball.

“You remember that guy?”
“Yeah, he was good. Where’s he going to school?”
“Man, that guy was funny.”
“You remember at that tournament...”

Bernard and Booker, who grew up about thirty minutes from each other in the San Diego area, first met in 1992 when they played each other in a local 3-on-3 tournament—Wayne was 11 and Nick was 10. Their relationship kicked off on an ominous note.

“We got in a little scuffle with each other and our parents had to break it up,” Booker recalls with a laugh. And with that scuffle, a friendship was born.

Once both were in high school—Wayne at Horizon High and Nick at The Bishop’s School—the two saw quite a bit of each other. “Our teams always played at least twice a year,” says Bernard. The high school games are a painful memory for the younger compadre, as Booker’s Bishop squads went 0-7 against Bernard’s Horizon teams.

“Wayne was always one of the top players,” says Booker. “Everyone wanted to have a good game against Horizon and Wayne Bernard. Playing against them, you could tell they just knew they were gonna win, even if they got down by 15. One time we were up, and they started going on a run, and I remember thinking, ‘Here we go again!’”

While they always enjoyed competing head-to-head, the two also share some fond memories of collaboration. One year, they teamed up on a High Five America AAU squad that traveled to the Peach Jam in Augusta, Georgia, and Orlando, Florida. Joining Booker and Bernard on High Five was 7-foot, 5-inch Yao Ming, a member of the Chinese Olympic team that competed in Sydney this summer.

“We played all the best teams in the country that summer. Our biggest win came against Riverside Church from New York,” reminisces Bernard. “We had played them twice earlier, and when we played them in San Diego, we were finally able to beat them.”

After touring the country with High Five, Booker’s high school coach Fentriss Winn started a fall league team that featured both Booker and Bernard. “I remember seeing coach Shurina from Davidson at some of our games,” says Booker. “Throughout the summer, I looked up to Wayne. He was like the best unknown player. He was funny—always laughing.”

Bernard also has fond memories of his summer with Nick. “I just remember he was fearless on the court. Off the court, he was real quiet, but easy to get along with.”

And when Booker began weighing his Division-I options, it was his close friendship with Bernard that helped lure him to Davidson. Booker describes Bernard’s influence as “...one of the main reasons I came here. When I was making my decision, I talked to Wayne’s mom a lot on the phone. Wayne’s not much for phone conversation, so I just called his mom to see how he was doing,” he jokes with a smile and a wink toward Bernard.

“Wayne had a lot to do with it in that he helped make Nick more comfortable,” agrees assistant coach Jason Zimmerman. “It always makes things easier when you know someone on the team. They have common friends, common experiences—now they come across the country and can continue their friendship.”

Mike Anderson

Now teamed together at Davidson, the pair looks to lead the Wildcats back to the NCAAs.

Top 25: Michigan State will repeat

By Will Roberson
Sports Editor

1. Michigan State - The defending champions graduated two of the nation’s best in Mateen Cleaves and Morris Peterson, but reload with two of the top 5 high schoolers in the nation, PG Marcus Taylor and PF Zach Randolph. Sophomore wing guard Jason Richardson is ready for a breakout season with the help of forwards Andre Hutson and Mike Chappell—all of whom were overshadowed by Cleaves and Peterson during the Spartans’ run to the title last year. This team will take their losses early but will be ready to dominate once again in March.

2. Duke - After losing ACC MVP Chris Carrawell to the NBA, Duke adds G Chris Duhon to an impressive blend of experience and youth. With a starting line-up of Jason Williams, Nate James, Mike Dunleavy, Shane Battier, and Carlos Boozer with Duhon, Nick Horvath, and Casey Sanders off the bench, Coach K is poised to make a run at his first title of the new millennium.

3. Arizona - The Cats boast the best frontcourt in the nation, led by Richard Jefferson, Michael Wright, Loren Woods—and Luke Walton. Their backcourt isn’t too shabby either, with All-American candidates Gilbert Arenas and Jason Gardner starting at the guard positions. If it wasn’t for Stanford’s Casey Jacobsen, Arizona’s starting five could all make All-Pac 10.

4. North Carolina - New head coach Matt Doherty inherits a loadedRoster. Leading the way is sophomore wing guard Joe Forte, who can score seemingly at will. The post will be manned by All-ACC candidates Brendan Haywood and Kris Lang, with Julius Peppers and Brian Bersticker backing them up. The only question mark is at point guard, where freshmen Adam Boone and Brian Morrison will compete for time with Ronald Curry.

5. Maryland - The Terrapins return all five starters from a year ago, including the All-ACC trio of Juan Dixon, Terence Morris, and Lonny Baxter. PG Steve Blake and SF Danny Miller are underrated. Add 6-10 freshman Chris Wilcox and transfer Byron Mouton (Tulane’s leading scorer of 2 years ago), and Maryland is ready for a run to the Final Four.

6. Stanford - The Cardinal will be one of the most experienced teams in the land, starting 4 fourth-year players along with sophomore standout Casey Jacobsen. Jacobsen will be counted on to replace the scoring of the departed Mark Madsen and David Moseley. The Collins twins will man the post, and Mike McDonald returns at the point.

7. Kansas - The Jayhawks are as experienced and talented as any team in the country. Senior wing guard Kenny Gregory leads the way and will be helped by fellow seniors Luke Axtell and Eric Chenowith. Junior PG Jeff Boschee returns, and sophomores Drew Gooden and Nick Collison are ready for breakout years.

8. Kentucky - Unexplainably stuck behind the incompetent Jamaal Magloire a year ago, 6-10 sophomore Marvin Stone will have his impact this year. Keith Bogans and Tayshaun Prince provide an impossible match-up on the wings. After failing to get in UNC, Jason Parker finds himself in Lexington. The Wildcats definitely don’t lack star power. But who will hold the team together? PG Saul Smith is definitely not the answer. One of the stars has to step up and be a leader.

9. Florida - This year’s Gators won’t sneak up on anyone like last year’s NCAA runners-up. The loss of Mike Miller and Donnell Harvey will hurt, but coach Billy Donovan has great personnel for his run-and-gun system. Junior Udonis Haslem will evolve from role player to star, and Brett Nelson will stake his claim as one of the best point guards in the nation.

10. Tennessee - The Volunteers are still on the never-ending quest to prove that UT isn’t a football school, and that it’s not Pat Summit’s school. The 2000-01 edition is one of the best ever at the school, one with Final Four potential. Junior F Vincent Yarborough helped lead the Vols within minutes of the Elite Eight last year, and will team up with senior PG Tony Harris and senior F Isiah Victor to try to get over the hump this year.

11. Seton Hall - Coach Tommy Amaker has once again demonstrated his amazing recruiting ability by bringing in three of the nation’s best, 6-9 Eddie Griffin, 5-8 Andre Barrett, and 6-6 Marcus Toney-El. Add those three to an impressive roster of C Samuel Dalembert and guards Ty Shine and Darius Lane, and the Pirates become one of the most exciting teams in the country.

12. Connecticut - You could look at this year as a rebuilding season for UConn after losing Khalid El-Amin, Jake Voskuhl, and Kevin Freeman. Don’t. The Huskies added NYC guard Taliek Brown and 6-7 Caron Butler to a roster boasting former role players Albert Mouring, Edmund Saunders, and Wane Souleymane that could once again capture the Big East title.

13. Illinois - New head coach Bill Self takes over a team that returns all five starters from last year’s 22-10 team. All-American candidate Cory Bradford and 6-10 sophomore center Brian Cook will lead a very young team.

14. UCLA - Sophomore Jason Kapono withdrew his name from the NBA Draft, and will return to lead a young Bruin squad. C Dan Gadzuric can be downright dominating if he stays out of foul trouble, and reliable Earl Watson handles the point. Expect newcomer TJ Cummings, son of 18-year NBA veteran Terry Cummings, to have a huge impact.

15. Notre Dame - All-American Troy Murphy is obviously the key. But the rest of the team is going to have to exploit the constant double-teams Murphy will demand. Oklahoma transfer Ryan Humphrey will add muscle in the post, and junior F Brian Graves and sophomore G Matt Carroll provide the perimeter threat.

16. Arkansas - The Hogs surprised everyone with their run through the 2000 SEC Tournament. They will look to build on that success with the help of 6-9 sophomore Joe Johnson, a favorite for SEC Player of the Year.

17. Utah - The Utes are suddenly more athletic than ever. Former McDonald’s All-American Britton Johnsen is back from his church mission, Travis Spivey has transferred from Georgia Tech, and C Chris Burgess arrives after two seasons with Duke.

18. Cincinnati - The Bearcats also return only one starter from last year’s team, PG Kenny Satterfield. He will team with junior Steve Logan in an impressive backcourt. Coach Bob Huggins continues to drink from the junior college well, adding five newcomers, three of which played JC ball last year.

19. DePaul - The Blue Demons are Cincinnati’s only real competition in Conference USA. The departure of Quentin Richardson will allow juniors Bobby Simmons and Lance Williams to blossom in the paint.

20. Wisconsin - Coach Dick Bennett’s slow-down style helped the Badgers advance all the way to the Final Four a year ago. Wisconsin returns all five starters from last season.

21. Southern Cal
22. St. John’s
23. Virginia
24. Georgetown