THE Davidsonian

Bjork gives an unforgettable performance in this enticing musical

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

According to Derek Elley of Variety, Dancer in the Dark is “a two-and-a-half hour demo of auteurist self-importance that’s artistically
bankrupt on almost every level.”

According to me, Dancer in the Dark is one of the best films of the year, and its star, Bjork,
gives one of the best performances I have ever seen. I mention Elley’s opinion because his is a common one:
audiences and critics both love and despise Lars von Trier’s new musical.

As the film opens, Selma (Bjork) is busy attending rehearsals for The Sound of Music. She plays a less than
orthodox Maria in a rather bizarre production of the musical. So strange are the rehearsals, they are reminiscent of scenes
in Waiting for Guffman. Yet Selma doesn’t really enjoy acting. She loves music, which she hears all the time. It
is no coincidence that they are doing a production called The Sound of Music.

Selma is also saving money for an operation that will prevent her son from going blind, a genetic trait passed
on to him from his mother.

Selma’s sight dwindles as the film progresses, making her job at a factory a little more than dangerous. Subplots and
a handful of colorful characters, most notably Catherine Deneuve’s Kathy, are present throughout the film, but Dancer in the Dark
and its main character keep their focus. The movie is only concerned with the boy’s operation. Will he have it
or not?

The movie does not answer this question easily. Selma certainly saves enough money, but saving the money, we discover, was
only her first obstacle. It would be unfair of me to discuss the hurdles that Selma must get over. All
I will say is that they are as unforeseen as the film’s final destination, which must be one of the
most powerful moments in any movie.

Be forewarned: Dancer in the Dark is a musical. There is singing and dancing just like in any other musical.
And as cliché as it sounds, the musical numbers have a purpose. They take us into Selma’s mind, allowing us
to see the joy she finds in life.

What we get from Bjork is a performance so intimate, personal, funny, and ultimately heartbreaking, that it is invisible. To
equate the term “great performance” with Judy Garland in The Wizard of Oz, Willem Dafoe in American Psycho, and Joan
Allen in The Ice Storm. And now I can add Bjork in Dancer in the Dark to the list.

There are stories about how Bjork dove headfirst into her role. Von Trier says she became Selma during the shoot,
physically and emotionally exhausting herself. Others have called these reports simply a publicity stunt. Either way, what we get from
Bjork is a performance so intimate, personal, funny, and ultimately heartbreaking, that it is invisible. In other words, she never
appears to be acting, even during her outrageous musical interludes.

At the conclusion of Dancer in the Dark, I was stunned. I could not believe the lengths to which von
Trier took his characters. I expected a tidy, neat little ending. Von Trier, whose credits include Breaking the Waves, doesn’t
settle for a happily-ever-after finale.

He wants us to realize who Selma is, to realize her dedication to her son and her love of music.
And by the end of Dancer in the Dark, we do.

Grade: A

Arts & Living
Dancer in the Dark delights

Family Weekend Festivities
Friday, October 20

Bluegrass Buffet 5:30-7:30 p.m.
Enjoy an informal and fun dinner at Vail Commons. Experience Southern fare Davidson style and relax to the music of
a Bluegrass band. This limited seating event has been popular in the past, so make reservations early by returning the
enclosed card directly to Vail Commons or call (704) 894-2605. Tickets are $15.00 for everyone and free for students on
a Vail Commons meal plan.

Music Department Showcase 7:00 p.m.
The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, the Wind Ensemble, and the Concert Choir showcase our talented students in a joint concert
in Love Auditorium at 7:00 p.m. on Friday, October 20th. Admission is free.

Theater Production: Goodnight Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet) 8:00 p.m.
Davidson theatre students perform a new twist on Shakespeare’s works. Constance Ledbelly, a drab and dusty academic, is hard at
work deciphering a cryptic manuscript she believes to be the original source for Shakespeare’s tragedies, Othello and Romeo and Juliet,
when she is magically transported into the worlds of the plays themselves. In this hilarious and witty romp through Shakespeare,
full of twists and wild surprises, McDonald gives us a peek at a very different side of characters we thought
we knew well. Goodnight Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet) was a smash hit when it was first produced in Toronto and
has since toured all over Canada and been produced throughout the U.S.

Jazz Ensemble 900 Room 10:00 p.m.
The Davidson College Jazz Ensemble plays in the 900 Room Friday, October 20th at 10:00 p.m. Join us for a
relaxing evening of jazz. Admission is free.

Saturday, October 21

Music and Dance Extravaganza 4:00 p.m.
The Davidson Dance Troupe joins the Davidson a capella singers (the Generals, the Delilahs, and Androgyny) in a musical extravaganza
on Saturday, October 21st at 4:00 p.m. Admission is free. Location: 900 Room

Theater Production: Goodnight Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet) 8:00 p.m.

Sunday, October 22

Theater Production: Goodnight Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet) 2:00 p.m.

Got Ideas??!!

Then, We Want You!!

RLO needs students to participate in Work Groups for the following topics:

Housing Lottery

Facilities Issues

Anyone interested or with questions can contact Associate Director, Leslie Urban at x2188 or at feurban.

VEGGIE MELT ~ VEGGIE BURGER ~ VEGGIE HOAGIE

VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP ~ VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES ~ CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE ~ VEGETABLE SOUP

FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

Bet you didn’t think of us for vegetarian fare!
Eat-in or Take-out

896-7743

MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, NC
