Dear Editors:

Advertising campus events at Davidson is a colorful business. The assortment of eye-catching bulletin boards lining the walls of Chambers
and residence halls testifies to the creativity and resourcefulness of Davidson students. Flyers remain a staple attention-getting ploy used by
almost every campus organization, social and scholastic alike. Flyers may or may not significantly impact the number of attendees at
any particular event, but their ubiquity testifies to their place in Davidson’s extra-curricular culture.

Unfortunately, a recent trend of flyer-vandalism threatens to transform Davidson’s reputation from a school that values active and progressive student
organizations to one that encourages only the normative standards of an apathetic and mediocre institution. When a scribbled racial slur
appeared on a flyer in the fall of 1998, the campus sprang into action that resulted in an annual celebration
of Martin Luther King’s birthday. Last week’s Davidsonian paid tribute to that remarkable “vigilance and impetus epitomizing all that the
Davidson community stands for.” Yet other scrawled commentaries, and even flyer disappearances, since that incident have gone unpublicized or unnoticed.

Just such a disappearance came to my attention last night when I saw that a flyer, announcing a Davidson delegation
to the Feminist Majority Foundation’s Expo 2000, was no longer on the “General Info” bulletin board on first-floor Duke, where
I had hung it a few days before. I peered underneath all the other flyers on the board in hopes
that mine had been temporarily obscured. (Earlier in the week I had unearthed it from a “Sig Ep is better
than smoking crack’—George W. Bush” sign, and the next day from a Patterson Court calendar. Both flyers had been conspicuously
aligned to cover the Expo announcement, a detail that emphasizes the anti-feminist undertones of Davidson’s Court system.) But, alas, this
time the flyer was gone for good.

Since the beginning of the 1999-2000 school year, at least three other organizations’ flyers have fallen victim to vandalism. “Liberals
suck” adorned the front of one Young Democrats flyer last semester. An antagonistic (and statistically inaccurate) pro-death penalty sign made
its way into an Amnesty International capital punishment display on the first floor of Chambers. Members of BGLAD (formerly FLAG),
whose advertisements are especially prone to defamation, have had students follow them through the halls and rip down signs as
quickly as BGLAD can post them.

These four incidents, which perhaps would be discounted as minor at a larger or less honor-driven institution, pose a real
danger to both the image and substance of Davidson College. The first paragraph of our Code of Responsibility reads:

As a college of liberal arts committed to the Christian faith, Davidson College seeks to liberate men and women of
humane instincts, and of disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership, service and self-fulfillment. Recognizing that the educational process
encompasses far more than academic activities, Davidson College believes that its purpose is promoted or hindered by the quality of
the total life of a college community. The promotion of a climate that is most conducive to the realization of
its purpose is the sole reason for the promulgation of a code of responsibility.

How ironic it is that the four organizations plagued by flyer-foul—Women’s Issues, Young Democrats, Amnesty International, and BGLAD—might easily find
themselves classified under the amorphous designation of “liberal” groups, while the primary purpose of Davidson College, true to its liberal
arts tradition, is “to liberate.” Both words derive from the same Latin root meaning “free.” The advertisements prone to vandalism
are the very ones embodying Davidson’s commitment to cultivating dialogue on diverse viewpoints both inside and outside the classroom. All
four of these organizations challenge the status quo to promote positive change, a product of those “humane instincts” characteristic of
all Davidson students. When members of the Davidson College community are not free to explore change without harassment, especially from
those who do not have enough courage to sign their names to their objections, “the quality of the total life
of a college community” has been hindered.

As with any college or university today, Davidson is rightly concerned with the aesthetic appeal of its campus. Yet, even
as we work to improve the appearance of our campus and our town, we neglect to monitor not only what
gets added to flyers, but also what decorates them in the first place. A Code of Responsibility based on freedom
does not negate its key title-word: responsibility. We must take special care to ensure that posted calls to ponder, pray,
or play do not discriminate or dehumanize. What lines our halls is just as important, if not more, than what
lines our streets. The potent discourse scribbling itself across neon-colored paper on the Davidson campus deserves a public and intellectual
dialogue, complete with faces to put with names and names to put with handwriting. I have hung another Feminist Expo
flyer, identical to its predecessor, on the same bulletin board in Duke. I hope that whoever has questions or objections
to its presence will post her own.Flyer next to it detailing her concerns. Or better yet, I hope that person
will arrange an open conversation with the Women’s Issues Committee, so that we can explore any potentially divisive issues together
as a campus community. Or best of all, I hope anyone who has ever marked on, torn down, crumpled up,
or thrown away a flyer after finding it offensive, threatening, or objectionable, will find a positive, creative outlet—with his own
voice and his own paper—for his frustrations.

Sincerely,
Cameron Richardson - Class of 2001

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Email Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

A guide to college students’ most abused and most favorite drug
By JENNY HAPGOOD AND GEORGIA RINGLE
Student Health Advisor and Health Counselor

With Self-Selection in the seemingly distant past and Midwinters approaching rapidly, it is time for students to re-evaluate their partying
plans and their drinking doses. While we always encourage and applaud the choice to remain alcohol-free, we, as Student Health
Advisors, recognize the frequency of alcohol illness and abuse on our lovely, bubble-like campus. So, as a guide to helping
you muddle through the basement beer runs and the around-the-world parties, we provide you with a list of do’s and
don’ts that will hopefully help keep you out of the hospital and out with friends instead.

DO: Set a drinking limit for yourself before you go out. Example: I have a test on Monday morning, thus
I think I’ll just have two beers over an hour and a half and spend the rest of the night
dancing without a drink in hand.

DO: Alternate drinks. Example: One alcoholic drink followed by a nonalcoholic drink such as water or soda.

DO: Eat before and during drinking because it helps slow down how quickly you absorb the alcohol and will help
quell that vicious next-day set.

DO: Take a vacation from drinking. Challenge yourself to going out once a month without drinking—can you go to a
fraternity without drinking?

Now that you have a healthy list of what to do, let’s take a look at a few don’ts that
seem pretty common sense but are in fact worth repeating.

DON’T: Pound your drinks—try to keep track of how much you’re drinking. For instance, if you have 4-5 drinks in
an hour, your body won’t be able to metabolize that amount and you’ll end up passed out or in an
ambulance.

DON’T: Drink heavily if you have an underlying medical condition such as diabetes, a history of alcoholism, a common cold,
or even if you’re on the Pill.

DON’T: Hassle a person who is extremely drunk. In other words, don’t give him/her coffee, juice, or even water because
that will induce vomiting. If a person needs to vomit, trust us, his body will do it for him—you don’t
have to! Also, don’t give a drunk person a cold shower because that just makes her a mean, cold, naked,
wet, drunk—who wants that?!

DON’T: Forget to turn a person on her side if she’s passed out from drinking too much—you want her to
puke to the side and not on herself. CAUTION: If you cannot arouse the passed-out person, you MUST call your
HALL COUNSELOR and call 911!! YOU MUST YOU MUST.

In addition to this do’s and don’ts list, the Student Health Advisors want to help you make the distinction between
“normal drinking” and “over the top” drinking. People often admit that they worry about their own drinking patterns or about
a friend’s drinking habits. In this case, please come and talk to one of us, Georgia Ringle, or the counseling
center. We can help you evaluate your habits and figure out if you’re on a track to the hospital and
the stomach pump or if you’re simply looking at a morning headache.

Finally, we'd like to include a list that defines a “problem drinker:”

- Do you use alcohol to cope with problems?
- Do you ever feel guilty about your drinking?
- Do you plan not to get drunk but end up drunk anyway?
- Do you compromise your beliefs or values when you’re drunk?
- Do you ever “blackout” and how often?
- Do you get annoyed when others comment on how much you drink?
- Do you think it’s cool to have a high tolerance, to drink your friends under the table, or to
hold your liquor?
- Do you hide how much you drink from others?

Lastly, we want you to understand that the Student Health Center is here to help you manage your drinking. We’re
not necessarily going to tell you to cut drinking out entirely, but we will help you limit your drinking and
progress to healthier habits.
