Environment, from page I: in which Dan McLawhorn (General Counsel NC Department of Environment & Natural Resources), Dr. Linda Rimer
(Liaison to North and South Carolina US Environmental Protection Agency), and Vicki Taylor (Consultant to the Catawba River Keeper Program)
presented their respective opinions on this issue. Dr. Ken Menkhaus moderated the discussion. Dr. Rimer began by discussing current EPA
issues, and the future of regulatory enforcement. She underscored the importance of collaboration in environmental policy. Dan McLawhorn followed with
his thoughts on environmental enforcement and compliance. Vicki Taylor concluded with statements contradictory to those of Linda Rimer concerning the
necessity of collaboration between environmental agencies. She feels that collaboration is an excellent way to approach environmental issues.

That evening Chuck McGrady, the immediate Past President and Treasurer of the Sierra Club, spoke on “Smart Growth or Urban
Sprawl: The Asphalt Jungle and Landscapes Transformed.” He described the “unbridled, haphazard growth” of urban sprawl to be one of
the hottest issues of the environment to date. He began by giving reasons why sprawl is detrimental, the main reason
being that sprawl is costly, and the environment could be helped simply with better planning. He complained that certain government
policies actually mandate urban sprawl, thereby propagating the problem. He finished with a list of ways to promote smarter growth
with improved public policy. He stressed, “Solving the sprawl problem means a better future for us all.”

The second panel discussion, “Safeguarding Endangered Ecosystems and Species: Conservation & Traditional Societies,” took place September 26th. The participants included:
Jeff Dickison, senior biologist of the Natural Resources Department; John Mason, the Executive Director of the Nature Conservation Research Centre;
and Ana Cristina Rossi, author and environmental activist from Costa Rica. Dr. Annie Ingram moderated the discussion.

Dr. Claude Martin, the Director General of the World Wildlife Fund International, gave his keynote address, “New Approaches to Conservation
in the 21st Century” Tuesday evening. In this time of distress, he believes a change of mentality is needed to
ameliorate the current environmental situation. “We are called upon to produce solutions because we are all in the same boat,”
he said. He discussed numerous strategies of the WWF, and expressed the need for an international approach to tackling the
problem.

The final day of the conference began with a lunch address by William Holman, the secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Environment and Natural Resources. He addressed “North Carolina’s Responsibility in the Global Environment,” and a complementary lunch ensued.

Davidson College’s own Kimberly Roberts spoke about how genetic engineering inspires her artwork in, “Transgenic Animals: The Art of Science.”
She joined a fictional company, “Gene Corps,” of her own creation, and used it as a context to represent genetically
altered species in her creations. She believes genetic engineering is possible in our society as “people don’t know what’s real
and what’s not real anymore.”

The final panel discussion, “Sustainable Development and the Environment: The Greening of Business,” took place that afternoon. The speakers were:
Rick Bunch, business education director of the World Resources Institute; Dr. John Shilling, senior economic advisor for the World Bank;
and Jerry Taylor, director of Natural Resource Studies at the Cato Institute. Rick Bunch said, “much of the power to
change things rests with private businesses,” summing up a basic sentiment in the discussion. Dr. Shilling encouraged a shift in
consumer demand to promote environmental reform. He said, “If you rise to consumer challenges, you will get a greener industry.”
Jerry Taylor said, “It’s not business that needs greening, it’s government,” implying that the real solution lies in the government’s
environmental policy.

Finally, Wednesday evening, Dr. Anthony Janetos, Senior Vice President of the World Resources Institute gave the closing address entitled “Potential
Consequences of Climate Variability and Change.” He began by reminding the audience that over the last century, the global annual
average temperature rose one degree Celsius due to the drastic increase in the carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere. He
proceeded to explain a study done.by his institute, researching the global warming threat, and evaluating the potential consequences of climate
change in the years to come. Dr. Janetos expects that increased warming will adversely affect vulnerable ecosystems, with much damage
to coastal and permafrost regions. He also mentioned the possibility of widespread water concerns. To bring it all into perspective,
he said, “the combined effect of all these individual stresses is the real problem.” “We do not know how to
live in a world of ten billion people.” Evidently, we need to learn. Public turnout for the event was high,
and the majority felt the conference was a success. “It caught a lot of people’s attention...that people at Davidson care
about the environment,” said Margaret Holtz of the Environmental Action Coalition.

Ambassador Ken Brown came up with the idea for the conference in June of 1999 while conversing with Claude Martin,
Director General of the World Wildlife Fund, at a meeting in Africa. He received nothing but support for his idea,
so he pursued it. Saying, “We were pleased with the way the conference schedule finally shaped up and the extraordinary
help we got in implementing it.” Big helpers of the conference included: Irene Middleton, Kathie Faulkner, Rebecca Rodriguez, Karen Sorenson,
the SAC (student advisory committee), and the Environmental Action Coalition.

Virginia company markets “safer” cigarettes
By Maria SANMINIATELLI
Associated Press Writer

A small tobacco company is test-marketing in Virginia and Kentucky a new type of cigarette with lower levels of cancer-causing
chemicals than regular brands. Star Scientific Inc., which launched the brand called Advance this week, plans to expand the tests
to other states in a couple of months. But industry experts are skeptical that reduced-risk products will sell among smokers.
One reason is the company’s reluctance to market the new brand as less dangerous.

“We’re trying to be very, very careful and as responsible as possible,” said Paul L. Perito, chairman of the Chester-based
company. Advance cigarettes have fewer cancer-causing toxins, known as tobacco-specific nitrosamines, or TSNAs. TSNA levels in Advance cigarettes are 70
percent lower than the levels in the leading brands, the company states. The new cigarettes also come with a charcoal
filter that reduces toxic gases such as carbon monoxide. Perito, however, said it is too soon to claim that Advance
cigarettes are less hazardous than others. “At this point in time, we don’t have the evidence,” Perito said. “It will
take several years to finalize the research whereby it can probably be evaluated.”

Advance cigarettes come with several warnings. A warning that covers the entire back of the pack starts with “There is
NO such thing as a safe cigarette,” and ends with “It is much safer for you to QUIT than to
switch or smoke.” Inside the wrapping is a leaflet that repeats the warnings and adds explanations about the cigarettes’ ingredients
and their harmful effects.

“It’s a bit silly to think that smokers are going to switch if you’re not going to make a strong
claim, if you can’t promote it as safer,” said David Adelman, a tobacco analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. Donald
Shopland, a special expert in tobacco control with the National Cancer Institute, said nitrosamines are one of about 40 or
50 cancer-causing agents in cigarettes. There is nothing to show whether reducing one carcinogen compound alone would make cigarettes less
harmful, he said. “We have no idea. None,” Shopland said. “About switching to this product, we would be able to
provide no advice whatsoever.”

Advance cigarettes are not the industry’s first attempt at lowering nitrosamines in cigarettes, although they may be the first conventional
cigarettes to do so. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. is marketing Eclipse, a special cigarette that heats tobacco instead of burning
it, and Philip Morris Co. is test-marketing Accord, which also heats tobacco. Both have lower nitrosamine levels. The test-marketing goes
on despite an announcement from R.J. Reynolds last month that its own scientists have found no evidence that cigarettes with
lower nitrosamines reduce the risks of smoking. Nitrosamines are formed during the curing process used to prepare tobacco, and Reynolds
plans to switch to low-nitrosamine tobacco. But Adelman said he is skeptical that cigarettes marketed as less dangerous would seduce
smokers. “Smokers in the U.S. are by definition risk-takers,” Adelman said. “As a group they are less likely to try
a reduced-risk product than the public at large.”

Star employs about 160 people and manufactures such discount brands as Sport and Vegas. It is test marketing the Advance
cigarettes at about 30 retail outlets in the Richmond, Va., area, and about 35 outlets in and around Louisville, Ky.
