LT H i ree Ty; Sf R S D A Y By Burcin Harbin Davidson tops Wake in OT, avenges
20 years of futility Sports Editor Some people say history repeats itself. Well, they’re going to have to wait. Going
into last Wednesday’s game against Wake Forest, Davidson had lost its last nineteen meetings with the Demon Deacons, including a
heartbreaking one-point loss in Winston-Salem last year. The Wildcats had also dropped their two most recent games—two important Southern Conference
contests that had slipped away in the closing minutes. The perennial ACC contender could only add to the Wildcats’ woes,
skeptics said. Instead, Davidson defied its recent history of last-minute defeat and two-decade-long history of futility against Wake by thrilling
the raucous Belk Arena crowd with a 54-49 overtime win over the Demon Deacons. “I think we learned from the
last two years,” said Stephen Marshall. “We really pulled through in the end today because we kept our poise and
stayed confident.” Staying poised was the only way to survive this defensive battle that saw 15 lead changes in 45
minutes and no double-digit advantages for either team. “This was a defensive struggle. It was like a chess game from
the opening tip to the end,” said head coach Bob McKillop. The Wildcats and Demon Deacons combined for only 39
first-half points after getting off to a rocky start. The Wildcats missed an easy layup and turned over the ball
twice within the first three minutes. The Demon Deacons could do no better, missing their first four shots, including two
free throws. But even after each team started finding the basket, the first half didn’t exactly turn into a barnburner.
The half would have ended on an 11-9 Wake advantage had not Davidson gone on an 8-1 run during the
last five minutes of the period. “The defense that Wake Forest put on in the first 20 minutes was sensational,”
said McKillop. “But we got some easy layups as the half wound down and started to figure out what to
do.” Thank goodness for those layups, though, because Davidson’s perimeter shots just weren’t connecting. The open looks were there, but
only one of Davidson’s seven first-half three-point attempts dropped through the net. The other six went in-and-out, glanced off the
rim, or missed completely. But what the Wildcats lacked in offensive firepower they made up for with a superb defensive
effort—especially in the second half—that ultimately won the game for them. And down the stretch, the team’s poise defined its
stellar defensive performance. Davidson 54 Wake Forest 49 Anna Judy Top: Michael Bree directs the ball around the arc while
looking past the arms of Wake Forest’s Broderick Hicks last Wednesday at Belk Arena. Left: Stephen Marshall drives to the
paint around Demon Deacon Josh Shoemaker. “Stephen is one of the best post players in the nation,” said teammate Landry
Kosmalski after the game. Anna Judy By watching the Wildcats’ second-half performance, you’d never know this team’s nagging problem has
been becoming unglued just when the game demanded a concentrated, sharply focused attack. “Keeping our poise has been a trouble
for us,” admitted Marshall. “In the UNC Greensboro game, we were up by eleven and relaxed and they came back
and won. Tonight we let it all hang out. We were playing with great confidence.” Much of that confidence came
from Marshall’s 11-point effort over the first six minutes of the second half, a performance that kept the Wildcats on
pace with the Demon Deacons during those first minutes. Landry Kosmalski led the second-half defensive charge, pulling down 8 boards
over the last 45 minutes and keeping the game from getting overloaded with second-chance Demon Deacon points. By 5:35, the
game was knotted in its twelfth tie, 41-41, and the score didn’t change until Darius Songaila made a free throw
at the 1:20 mark. Wayne Bernard scored a layup and Kosmalski and Wake’s Robert O’Kelly traded threes before a Josh
Howard foul sent Kosmalski to the line for a one-and-one attempt with Davidson ahead, 46-45. Kosmalski missed the shot in
a haunting reminder of the UNC Greensboro game.The ball returned to Wake’s end for Broderick Hicks to shoot two from
the line. The Belk Arena crowd that had rocked all game erupted in cheers when Hicks missed his first attempt
but then quieted as the sophomore guard’s second shot found the basket with 21 seconds remaining, tying the score at
46. To safeguard their opportunity for an overtime win, the Wildcats dribbled away the final seconds to the applause and
cheers of the Wildcat faithful. The next five minutes was more than overtime for Kosmalski—it was sweet redemption. After missing
the front end of a one-and-one attempt that could have won the game in regulation, Kosmalski hit 6-of-8 clutch free
throws in the final period to seal the win. “I got a chance to redeem myself after missing the one-and-one
in regulation and missing the one-and-one against Greensboro,” said Kosmalski. “I was fortunate enough to come through and we got
the win. Even though I missed those free throws against UNC Greensboro, I still wanted the ball at the end.
I felt confident. Whenever it comes down to that situation and you're feeling good, you want to take the shot.”

Wake took an early lead in overtime on an Antwan Scott jumper and Josh Howard free throw, but those were
the last three points of the night for the Demon Deacons. Michael Bree hit a short jumper and Kosmalski made
his first two free throws to put the Wildcats ahead for good, 50-49. Vidaurreta and O’Kelley both went to the
line for the Demon Deacons with a chance to reclaim the lead but couldn’t connect on their free throws. “If
we had made those free throws the game would have been over,” said an agitated O’Kelley. “It was pretty bad.
It seems like when one person misses free throws it becomes contagious and the whole team gets it.” The Wildcat
defense safeguarded the lead for the next two minutes as Wake chaotically attempted several shots that would have saved the
game for them. “We felt that if the game was tight and close, they might struggle with some of their
shots,” said McKillop. “When they missed the foul shots and jumpers, you could see the tentative nature of their shots.”
Four more Kosmalski free throws in the last 40 seconds put the game out of reach for the Demon Deacons
and sent the crowd into a frenzy. At the buzzer, the Wildcat faithful rushed the court, smothering the team that
had scored Davidson’s first victory over an ACC team since 1994. “The crowd for the last three games has been
sensational,” said McKillop during his post-game interview, “and I’m thrilled that we can reward them with this victory.” “This is
a great confidence booster for us right now at this point in the season, especially after the last two losses,”
said Marshall. “We were feeling kind of down and you can’t ask for a better pick-me-up than this.”

PLAYER OF THE WEEK
Michael Bree has not committed a turnover in 105 minutes and only has one in the last four games. Against
ETSU, Bree scored a career-tying 10 points and recorded 4 assists.

MEN’S BASKETBALL
2/11-12 Collegiate Open Invitational*

WRESTLING
2/12 The Citadel, Chattanooga* 10:00 a.m.
2/12 @Western Carolina 7:00 p.m.
2/14 Chattanooga 7:00 p.m.

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
2/12 @UNC Greensboro 3:00 p.m.
2/15 @Furman 7:00 p.m.

GAMES OF THE WEEK
BASEBALL
2/12 Mt. St. Mary’s 12:00 p.m.
2/13 Mt. St. Mary’s 1:00 p.m.
2/16 @Duke 3:00 p.m.

WOMEN’S TENNIS
2/12 Davidson Doubles Classic All Day
2/13 Kansas 1:30 p.m.
2/15 High Point 2:30 p.m.

WOMEN’S INDOOR TRACK
2/13 Clemson Invitational**

Boldface indicates home games
Italics indicates Southern Conference games
*at Charleston, S.C.
**at Clemson, S.C.

LATE NIGHT TUESDAY...
Davidson 87 ETSU 60
Stephen Marshall scored 22 points and Michael Bree’s two high-flying threes knocked on the rafters as Davidson defeated East Tennessee
State 87-60 Tuesday night at Belk Arena. Davidson improves to 12-10 overall and 7-4 in conference play. “This game was
vital as we position ourselves to get a first-round bye in the tournament,” said head coach Bob McKillop.
