Offensive terms are not necessarily degrading

Recent submissions to The Davidsonian have debated the issue of sexist language. Several people have indicated their disapproval of the use of three terms in Scott Buchanan’s October 4 column “Why Al Gore is a flat out idiot.” While the debate has focused on this specific incident, the issue itself accentuates two broader conflicts. On one hand, it raises the question of what constitutes offensive or degrading language. On the other hand, the discussion also emphasizes the split over the influence of context as opposed to content on the impact of words.

First, critics have used various terms to describe the words used in Mr. Buchanan’s initial column. As a starting point for our discussion, we would like to offer our understanding of the definitions of a few of these labels. Offensive language is profane or disrespectful language that upsets or insults the audience. Its offensiveness is based on social convention rather than its intent. By contrast, degrading language attacks and demeans a target group or person based on a specific characteristic. It associates that characteristic with certain negative stereotypes or images. In other words, such language discriminates against its victims because of their membership in a group. It does so by means of certain harmful associations.

Racist language is clearly an example of degrading language. It attacks all and only members of an ethnic group solely because of their heritage. Likewise, sexist language is specifically degrading to females or males simply on the basis of gender. In both cases, the degrading terms or phrases associate two completely unrelated characteristics. A person’s ethnic or sexual identity is equated to some damaging stereotype or image.

On the basis of these definitions, one could legitimately say that terms such as “slut,” “whore,” or “beast” are offensive. They are crass and shocking, and many if not most readers would feel uncomfortable to see them in print. By that same standard, we fail to see how these terms are degrading. The words in question do not apply to an entire group, nor do they perpetuate damaging images about all women. Though Mr. Buchanan’s critics repeatedly assert that these expressions are harmful, they do not explain how. For example, no one (not even Mr. Buchanan) believes that all women are promiscuous, if we can take that as the meaning of “slut.” How then does it do violence to all women? The label is a specific term, albeit an offensive one, that applies to a particular behavior, not to an entire group.

The second point raised in this debate regards the relative importance of context and content. Some have asserted that a few words are so objectionable that they can never escape their degrading meanings. Others contend that context, along with the apparent intent behind it, is the factor that determines whether language is offensive. To this, we reply — you’re both right. Truly degrading language, i.e., language that discriminates against all within a group, is never appropriate, regardless of the context. Once a word reaches that degree of generality, the negative connotation cannot be altered. However, language that is offensive but not degrading may mean different things depending on the context. Though its offensiveness is independent of its usage, such a term is not necessarily degrading or damaging.

Mr. Buchanan’s article clearly demonstrates this. Though his word choice was questionable, he did not single out and attack women. In context, the terms in question did not even refer to women, either specifically or in general. Perhaps Mr. Buchanan’s opponents feel that the terms used perpetuate a sexual “double standard.” In other words, since our culture tends to condemn promiscuous women while glorifying promiscuous men, words like “slut” and “whore” are damaging to all women. If this is the case, then they are degrading only indirectly. Moreover, if the issue is cultural attitudes about sexual behavior, doesn’t it make more sense to call men to task for their own indiscretions? Again, Mr. Buchanan, by singling out a man, may have actually taken a step towards that goal.

While we understand that not everyone agrees with Mr. Buchanan’s ideas or with his choice of words, we do not see why his article is an example of sexist language. At the very least, his critics have failed to show why his language is sexist. Students have astutely pointed out that words hold great power. We only hope that they will be more judicious in their own use of labels like “sexist” and “violent.”

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors-in-chief

The Davidsonian

@ ALEMDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson

LAYOUT EDITOR
Tim Cook

BUSINESS MANAGERS
Peter Clark
David Johnston

NEWS EDITORS
Arina Kvanvig

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Don’t offend half of the population by attempting humor

In response to Laura McDonnell and Scott Buchanan, we would like to address the issue of sexist language and its negative connotations and ramifications. Contrary to Ms. McDonnell’s suggestion, the context in which derogatory language is used is meaningless. Yes, Mr. Buchanan used the terms “slut” and “whore” to refer to a man in an attempt at humor. This is not, however, an attempt...To break down the negative connotations associated with those words, because the humor of his use of the words lies in the fact that he degrades his fellow “debater” by calling him a woman, a promiscuous woman. To insult a man, even in jest, by calling him a woman does not improve the connotations of the sexist language; in fact, it reemphasizes their negativity. Despite the fact that sexist language has negative connotations, the more disturbing aspects of its use are its ramifications. Words like “slut” and “whore” perpetuate the sexualization of women. We believe that it is this objectifying sexualization of women that Lauren Baird and Cameron Richardson were referring to in their flyers and letter. If a woman is thought of and referred to as a sexual object, she is for men’s use, abuse, and she is dehumanized. There are NO male correspondences to the words “slut” and “whore.” A man cannot be dehumanized and objectified by language the way a woman can, and Lauren Baird and Cameron Richardson have brought that to our attention. I hope that no Davidson student would knowingly use language that is degrading and insulting to another person. I also hope that in the future we will be as considerate to one another in print as we are when we smile and wave our way around campus.

Beth Jenkins ‘02

“Shock juxtaposition” does not eliminate underlying sexism. Language does have power. Ms. Baird and Ms. Richardson force us to realize that. Also, language should be viewed in context, as Mr. Buchanan and Ms. McDonnell state. With regards to the article by Mr. Buchanan, the sexist language has a power that is not subverted by the context of shock juxtaposition. Yes, in certain contexts, perhaps these terms can be taken lightly. But the use by Mr. Buchanan of these terms is presumptuous at best, but mainly humiliating. Mr. Buchanan uses the terminology without actually changing our connotation for his words. There is no subversion of the connotations of his word choice. The power of the language does not only reside in an individual understanding of it but its broader connotations. With regards to language that has traditionally been directed in a derogatory manner, one must evaluate and understand the connotation that this language has for the minority group. We want to applaud Ms. Richardson and Ms. Baird for being willing to open this discussion among Davidson students. We encourage everyone to talk. Let us know your opinions in a respectful manner. Don’t leave us signs on our door calling us “bitches.” Use the board in Chambers to share your perspective. Email us. Talk. Dialogue.

Stephanie Mlynar ’01 and Etta Dixon ‘01

The Outpost is a place for everyone to enjoy. As the chair of the Outpost committee for the Union Board, I oversee much of what goes on in the Outpost. That means that I am in charge of all activities at Jumpin’ Java (a free coffee and snack event open to everyone). Activities in the past have included filling in the spaces left blank on the walls by the removal of shutters. It is for this reason that I take responsibility for the writing that has been the topic of so much controversy this past semester. Although I did not personally write, “What would Judas do?” or “God protect me from your followers,” I am responsible for their appearance and subsequent alteration. A little-known fact is that I (and no one else) changed or removed these words from the Outpost walls. Although I did not agree with some of what John Pitts said in his initial letter, one thing struck me. Mr. Pitts objected to the words on the grounds that the Outpost is supposed to be a neutral place for everyone on campus. This statement of Mr. Pitts’ convinced me to change the walls because I place great value on this facet of the Outpost. I did not do this as a way of submitting to censorship, but rather as a way for me to ensure that, as Outpost chair, I uphold the Outpost’s tradition as a place welcoming and neutral for everyone. I would rather upset a few people who wish to express themselves than make anyone feel unwelcome in the space I work so hard to keep friendly and comfortable. I was sorry that Mr. Paul did not agree with me in that respect. However, I do not regret my actions in changing the word “God” to “Jove” and removing “What would Judas do?” It is important that everyone realize what goes on behind the scenes. It is clear to me that neither Mr. Paul nor Mr. Pitts was fully informed when they wrote their letters. They did not realize that the same person in charge of what went up on the walls took the writing down from the walls. No one in the Davidson administration ever spoke to me on the matter. I made these decisions on my own. The people who work at the Grill were also completely uninvolved from these goings-on. I hope that this has cleared a few things up. Perhaps some people will again feel welcome at the Outpost and take advantage of the space in its last year as Davidson’s favorite hangout.

Alexis Boehmler ‘02, Outpost Chair of the Union Board