Better luck next time (if there is one): Nine Days
By Thomas Cullen, Arts & Living Editor

Nine Days is one of those bands that popular radio stations kill by excessively overplaying their songs. You hear the
song the first time and you think it rocks; after the 800th time, you would rather drink a cup of
dip spit than hear it again. After hearing the song, however, you are curious about the rest of the band’s
material. Don’t worry at all about Nine Days. In fact, forget about them. While their other songs are not bad,
there is no reason for you to buy the whole record.

Nine Days has two vocalists: John Hampson (the guy you see singing in the “Absolutely (Story of a Girl)” video)
and Brian Desveaux (who disgusts me with his vocals). You can go ahead and skip every song on which Desveaux
sings, because they are awful. He sounds like he is getting a swift kick to the groin every time he
attempts a high note, which is not to my liking. The music that he writes is some of the band’s
best material, but his vocals are just too terrible for me to give him any credit.

The songs sung by Hampson are actually pretty good. “Absolutely (Story of a Girl)” is a fabulous one-hit wonder type
of song with its catchy lyrics and pleasant pace. Next is “If I Am,” which walks the fine line between
soft and hard to create an inviting song that can also get lodged in your brain. The gem of the
album is “Crazy,” which relaxes the listener but still stimulates some thoughts. It doesn’t lull you to sleep like some
slow songs; instead, it just calms you down. Hampson sings of separation from a loved one with ease and pleasure.

The album peaks with “Revolve,” an affirmation of love that invites you to see Nine Days at their best. The
guitar pulses and flows while Hampson’s comforting voice makes its way into the music. If you listen to any other
song besides “Absolutely (Story of a Girl),” please make it this one.

Nine Days will never be heard from again. They are the quintessential one-hit wonder, and The Madding Crowd shows you
exactly why this is the case. If I were you, I would just wait for “Absolutely (Story of a Girl)”
to come on the radio again. Don’t worry — you won’t have to wait long.

New Union offers greater opportunities for music, theater
By Jessica Mering, Staff Writer

Help is on the way for young Shakespeares at Davidson. A main component of the Knobloch Campus Center will be
a theater seating between 500 and 600 people, between the size of Hodson Hall and Love Auditorium. While available both
to the music program and visiting lecturers, the theater is a much-needed venue for student productions. The department has already
contracted to perform one major production a year.

“A new facility removes a large chunk of the program’s facility needs and makes the rest of an improvement package
[of Cunningham] more reasonable and affordable,” said theater professor Dr. Joe Gardner.

The new theater will be technologically superior to any of Davidson’s current performance spaces. The size will be more conducive
to productions: a removable orchestra shell will provide better acoustics and will be movable so as to provide extra seating
when needed. A fly tower will also improve scenery options and make more set design techniques available. Gardner anticipates it
will be one of the best-equipped stages in the area and noted that resources are allocated so as to maximize
its capabilities.

Along with the stage in Knobloch, the theater department will most likely acquire additional space in Cunningham. While definite plans
have not been made, it is probable that the theater department then will remodel the spaces in Cunningham when the
music department moves into the vacated Grey College Union. This would be the fulfillment of a long-range planning project in
the works since 1987. The plan, or “program document,” was created to assess the department’s needs for staff, curriculum, and
facilities.

Cunningham was built in 1960, even before the theater department existed. Until the Visual Arts Center was constructed in 1993,
Cunningham was home to both the visual and performing arts and space limitations precluded exclusive design and classroom space for
the theater department. The VAC relieved some of these constraints but Cunningham is still too small to accommodate two rehearsal
spaces.

October 11
Coming Attractions for October 2000 - December 6
Paintings by Polish native Majha Godlewska, Nashville artist Monica Hancock, and local artist Carrie McGee will be on display in
the Van Every Gallery of the Davidson College Belk Visual Arts Center.

October 13 - November 14
Paintings by Herb Jackson, Williamson professor of art at Davidson College, willbe on display at the Christa Faut Gallery in
Cornelius from Friday, October 13 through Tuesday, November 14.

October 15
The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra and Wind Ensemble will honor composer Johann Sebastian Bach on the 250th anniversary of his
death on Sunday, October 15. Featured selections include the Suite No. 2 in B minor and the Concerto for Two
Violins in D minor. The “Bach Fest” begins at 4 p.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

October 17
The Marcus Roberts Trio will take the creative art of jazz improvisation to new heights on Tuesday, October 17, in
a performance at Davidson College. Featuring jazz pianist Marcus Roberts, along with Jason Marsalis on drums and Roland Guerin on
bass, the Trio will open the Artist Series 2000-01 season at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

- and performance-heavy departments. “We can’t meet class demands, and certainly not performance demands, because of constraints that come from
sharing space with music. When they perform, our department basically has to shut down and when we perform, they shut
down. We’re pretty much mutually exclusive and that cuts down about fifty percent of what we’re both able to do,”
said Gardner. With the additional space, the music and the theater departments will be better able to develop their programs.
Since the stage in Knobloch will be so much bigger than any current stage, space will be needed to rehearse
shows performed there. Making Cunningham a theater building could make that possible. Gardner also suggests that seating in Hodson Hall
could be reworked in order to allow moveable seats to suit different types of performances. While Cunningham’s future is still
in the planning stages, it’s likely that the theater department will greatly benefit from the additional space. “This is a
validation of really great work coming out of all three art programs. The arts are an important window for the
community to look at the college and see what we’re doing in a positive way. Ideally, we'd like to have
a program where every student who wants to can act and I think we can make that happen,” said Gardner.

Concert at the Lake treats audience
By Martha Hunt, Arts & Living Editor

A refreshing breeze, gentle clouds drifting across blue skies, trees beginning to turn out their autumn splendor... could the lake
campus get any better? Apparently so, with the success of the first-ever “Concert at the Lake” this past Saturday. Nature
in all its beauty was made to sparkle with the sounds of music, as strains of jazz, classical, and the
delicate notes of flutes floated across the waves to a captivated audience. Young and old turned out to delight in
the afternoon, a snapshot of generations united in the enjoyment of ageless music. Colorful blankets, like patches on an heirloom
quilt, dotted the grassy peninsula, while the chatter of friends mingled with jazz compositions. The Davidson College Jazz Ensemble, Flute
Choir, and Symphony Orchestra provided two hours of pleasing and familiar music, such as the “Blue Danube Waltz” and “Over
the Rainbow.” Jazz selections ranged from sublime to spirited; listeners enjoyed such pieces as “Harlem Nocturne” and “Warm Night in
Charleston.” As the Ensemble set the mood, children gathered on the shore of the lake to play in the sand
and splash in the waves. The flutes, which followed the jazzy portion of the concert, mimicked the action of the
lake: the constant beating of waves upon the shore, with a choppy - then even - rhythm. At times the
flutes captured the spirit of the children: lilting, carefree, playful, and enchanting. The jazz and flute portions of the concert
made up the first hour of music, with the symphony orchestra comprising the second hour. The orchestra’s program started with
a rousing recital of “Music for the Royal Fireworks,” by Handel. Student and faculty musicians showcased their superb talent in
pieces such as Bach’s “Concerto for Two Violins in D Minor” and “Aria: Rejoice in the Lord in all Nations,”
as well as Aaron Copland’s “Simple Gifts” and “At the River.” Copland’s “Hoe Down” seemed especially suited for the country-like
fellowship which infused the crowd. As the concert drew to a close, and as the sun’s rays turned to gold
across the lake, a jazz interpretation of “Over the Rainbow” charmed the audience. A tiny hydroplane - a seeming metaphor
for the soaring ideals of the song - flew close overhead during the last notes. Finally, the concert ended with
a spirited “Salute to the Big Bands,” including short renditions of “April in Paris” and “Pennsylvania 6-5000.” Brilliant scenery, dazzling
melodies, and good friends... a perfect and relaxing way to spend a Saturday afternoon. The Music Department’s first attempt at
an outdoor concert was an inspiring achievement; without a doubt, an encore performance will be awaited with much anticipation.
