The Davidsonian

ALLEN DA | Foe ee, € LU. Bt ORTA LJ BuB RT ALS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Davidson celebrates feminism. Race relations are campus relations. A glance at Davidson’s staff. Women’s basketball signs five high school stars.

Established 1914 NEWS 4 VIEWPOINT 8 FEATURES 7 SPORTS 10

By BRIAN HARDIN - Sports Editor

Lights? Nope.
Camera? Nada.
Action? You better believe it.

Three days before its match against Iceland at Ericsson Stadium, the U.S. National Women’s Soccer Team dominated Iceland in a
closed-door session at Richardson Stadium, capturing an 8-0 victory.

Since nobody outside of the Davidson College community was admitted to the scrimmage, the presence of almost 500 people in
the stands was that much more impressive.

“Back in the days when I played, we were lucky if we had 400 or 500 people attend a game,”
said head coach April Heinrichs, who played four years at the University of North Carolina in the mid-1980s. “It’s wonderful
to have the crowd.”

The past and present of Davidson College came together on Monday night.

Former Presidents Samuel Spencer and John Kuykendall joined current President Bobby Vagt as well as students, faculty, and community members
in discussing the issues which shaped their undergraduate and presidential years.

Spencer, who graduated in 1936 and served as president from 1968 through 1983, remembered a Davidson in which the Honor
Code still governed student life, Chapel was mandatory, and there was little opportunity for academic “experimentation or variety.” During his
tenure as President, women were admitted as full-time students in 1975.

Also, Spencer pointed to the requirement that all faculty members had to be members of a Christian church as one
of the most difficult issues he was forced to confront.

“There was a big question about how faculty would be perceived if not members of a Christian church,” said Spencer.

The religious affiliation requirement for faculty was eventually lifted.

See Presidents, page 6.

Mia Hamm (above) and the U.S. National Women’s Soccer Team faced Iceland Wednesday on Richardson Field in a closed-door match
prior to their game at Ericsson Stadium on Saturday.

All photos by Mike Anderson

INTL. COMMENTARY First Class Mail
FEATURES U.S. Postage Paid
VIEWPOINT Permit #1
SPORTS Davidson, NC 28036
