_The Davidsonian VAC, from page 1_

rowful one. “It’s the sound and the motion of the piece that’s the content,” he explains. Sometimes the viewer activates
the kinetic element of Savage’s works, sometimes the work activates itself, and sometimes the only activation required is the viewer’s
engagement. “The viewer has to be present to complete any work; he brings his experience to it,” says Savage. “I
like to wrestle with the question of who controls who.”

Professor Herb Jackson’s abstract oil-crayon drawings cover the walls of the room directly behind Savage’s sculptures. Colors reach across canvases
where they merge with, overlap, and disappear under others. When junior Becca Wilson examined Jackson’s works, she discovered painting after
painting within every single canvas.

In the inner room of the gallery beside Jackson’s exhibit, each canvas boasts bright colors, animated lines, and funky shapes
in a cubist style. Warren believes that much of his inspiration arises from his “fascination with the folk signs in
South Carolina.” While driving with his family each summer along the back roads of the state, he would pass signs
selling everything from religion to watermelons. He plays with the texts and illustrations of these signs, weaving slogans like “Trust
in God, but Tie your Horse” and advertisements like “U-Pic-Um” into the designs of his works. Warren taps into his
musical interest by painting instruments in many of his works. Thomas notes the merging of cultures in the exhibit’s title
piece, “Elvis Ain’t no Cubist,” which features three stringed instruments within the outline of a house.

She marveled at Jackson’s ability to “communicate the infinite in a single object and a single form.” The paintings made
her realize that “the colors in the world around us shape our view of the world, and that view can
shift so quickly.” Jackson explains that the dynamics of the color on the paper is “a direct reflection of the
gesture of the artist.” In producing a work, he applies 30 to 50 layers of color to the paper and
“responds to each layer” by adding new colors and scraping into existing ones with anything from a fingernail to a
dental tool. Gallery Director Brad Thomas admires Jackson’s improvisational ability: “One of the most important skills for an artist to
have is being able to improvise—to go where the painting takes you.” “There is a richness in his work,” adds
Thomas, “that comes from having done it for thirty years and staying on a steady path.”

Paintings by Professor Russ Warren decorate the inner room of the gallery beside Jackson’s exhibit. Each canvas boasts bright colors,
animated lines, and funky shapes in a cubist style. Warren believes that much of his inspiration arises from his “fascination
with the folk signs in South Carolina.” While driving with his family each summer along the back roads of the
state, he would pass signs selling everything from religion to watermelons. He plays with the texts and illustrations of these
signs, weaving slogans like “Trust in God, but Tie your Horse” and advertisements like “U-Pic-Um” into the designs of his
works. Warren taps into his musical interest by painting instruments in many of his works. Thomas notes the merging of
cultures in the exhibit’s title piece, “Elvis Ain’t no Cubist,” which features three stringed instruments within the outline of a
house.

The art connoisseur, Thomas states, “knows Picasso and other artists as well as the general public knows Elvis. It’s funny
to see that combination of cultures in the title.” Despite the irony present in the line “Elvis Ain’t no Cubist,”
Warren admits that the idea came to him in a dream about his daughter’s dog, Elvis, and a seminar he
was teaching in cubism.

In the Smith Gallery across the hall, Professor Kimberley Richards has combined her passions for fishing and art to create
a display that reveals Genecorp Company’s development of a new breed of fish, the “VAMPIREBASS.” A card mounted on the
wall of the exhibit, composed by Genecorp’s management, explains, “The VAMPIREBASS™ is a technological breakthrough unlike any other. We have
taken the number one most popular game fish in America, the Large Mouth Bass, and hybridized it by means of
the Dracula mutation. The result is the...VAMPIREBASS™, a fish that will explode if exposed to sunlight. Thanks to our new
invention, the night fishing world will never be the same.” Richards says that sports-fishermen covet the new breed of bass
because its color, eerie eyes, and aggression make it more thrilling to catch and more impressive to hang on the
wall. In the exhibit, Richards displays paintings of infected embryos, drawings of “unfortunate, yet interesting” mutations, diagrams of diet models,
sculptures of trial color schemes, and more.

Genecorp’s goal is to make money, and my goal is to make people realize that companies are using genetically created
creatures to make money,” asserts Richards. “I can’t save the world. I can only educate people about things I’m concerned
about—and hope that they’ll become concerned too.” The works of Jackson, Warren, and Savage will occupy the Van Every and
Edward M. Smith Gallery through the end of September, and the work of Richards will occupy the Smith Gallery until
the first of October.

Gore, America needs to combat international terrorism and drug trafficking, help treat and prevent global epidemics such as HIV-AIDS, and
encourage the protection of the natural environment. By stopping such threats, a Gore administration would end the most direct ways
the average American is negatively affected by international influences. Domestic issues and policy are what the candidates and citizens have
chosen to focus on this election year. However, foreign policy issues are extremely important during this time where borders tend
to change on a monthly basis, if not more frequently. Al Gore has the experience and understands it will be
his “profound responsibility to open the gates of opportunity for all the world’s people.”

Bush, But it goes beyond spending and into the alteration of relationships with many states and organizations. Paramount among these
reconsiderations would be the US’s relationship with China and our involvement in the United Nations. The Governor believes that the
nation must establish a more competitive relationship in which the threat that China poses to US interests is recognized as
real and upcoming. This change of focus includes closer relations with Taiwan, Japan, Australia, and South Korea. Governor Bush also
believes that the US’s role in the UN needs to be reevaluated. Bush will not allow such an unresponsive and
unaccountable global bureaucracy to control deployed troops, believing that only US officers should command US armed forces. He will continue
to demand reform in the UN and will seek to end the nation’s disproportionately high costs as a member. Bush
supports the UN and their noble humanitarian causes but seeks to restrict their preparedness to infringe upon sovereignty. Above all,
Governor Bush wishes to keep the US as the current leader of this international organization. Under Governor George W. Bush,
America will reclaim its lost prestige in the world. US soldiers will be proud to serve under an administration that
respects them and refuses to allow them to live on government assistance. Under Bush, the US military will be the
most powerful and the best prepared. Foreign policy will be driven by US interests alone, will be clear and decisive,
and will be backed by a reformed military.

Bellacino’s Pizza
Quizno's Subs
Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream
Summit Coffee

See the magician, have your face painted, collect balloons, win prizes, and hear “The Delilahs,” Davidson College's female a cappella
group.

DOGWOOD DELL (corner of Concord Road and Faculty Drive)
September 23, 12 p.m.-2 p.m.
Homecoming Lunch Festival! featuring food and beverages from:
Rain Location: Grey College Union
