By Richard Wright
Staff Writer

It was not supposed to end at home like it did. This year’s four seniors—Landry Kosmalski, Stephen Marshall, Jeff Bergmann,
and Davor Halbauer—deserved a win in their last appearance in Belk Arena. But the team’s Senior Day comeback attempt, led
by Kosmalski and Marshall, represents the determination and talent the Class of 2000 has brought to the court.

“We’ve been lucky ever since I’ve been at Davidson. We’ve had senior players who have been the heart and soul
of the team,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “They’ve carried the torch from the previous teams and taught the freshmen,
sophomores, and juniors great lessons. They’ve maintained a strict adherence to our code of caring, commitment, and trust.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

These four players arrived at Davidson on the heels of a remarkable 25-5 season, including an undefeated conference record and
went on to post a 72.1 career winning percentage in conference play over the next four years. After tying for
first place in the North Division their freshman year, the Wildcats won it outright during the 1997-98 season. And the
past two years Davidson has earned second place in the division. In their sophomore year these seniors went 20-10 on
the way to the NCAA tournament after winning the Southern Conference tournament.

“We’ve always played important roles since we were freshmen,” said Marshall. “One reason I came here, and I think Landry
and Davor and Jeff would agree, was that there was an opportunity to play a lot. We've all had the
opportunity to play a lot and develop our game a lot.”

Marshall and Kosmalski have led the team in scoring in 20 of 26 games, including the last ten straight, and
in rebounding in 25 of 27 games. Their final season includes impressive road wins over College of Charleston and Appalachian
State, and a memorable upset of Wake Forest at home.

Marshall, Davidson’s 29th all-time leading scorer with 1,029 points, after struggling through some injury-induced inconsistency early in his career, including
missing the first twelve games of his freshman season, has been on a tear this year. He leads the team
in scoring with 15.8 points per game, and remains among the nation’s leaders in shooting percentage, connecting on 61 percent
from the floor. The 6-8 center from Midlothian, Va., has eleven twenty-point games this season and has never shot below
50 percent from the floor for a season. His five double-doubles this season include a 20-point, 11-rebound effort on Senior
Day.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Southern Conference Men’s Basketball Championship
MARCH 2-5, 2000
BI-LO CENTER, GREENVILLE, SC

#4S Chattanooga
MARCH 2, GAME 1
12:00 PM

#5 Western Carolina
MARCH 3, GAME 5
2:00 PM

#1N Appalachian State
MARCH 4, GAME 9
2:00 PM

#2S Georgia Southern
MARCH 3, 30 MINUTES AFTER GAME 5

#3N UNC Greensboro
MARCH 2, GAME 2
30 MINUTES AFTER GAME 1

#6S Furman
MARCH 2, GAME 3
6:00 PM

#5S The Citadel
MARCH 2, GAME 4
30 MINUTES AFTER GAME 3

#1S College of Charleston
MARCH 3, GAME 6
30 MINUTES AFTER GAME 4

#2N Davidson
MARCH 4, GAME 10
30 MINUTES AFTER GAME 9

CHAMPIONSHIP GAME
MARCH 5, 12:30 PM
TV-ESPN

TV-COMCAST SPORTS
MARCH 3, 30 MINUTES AFTER GAME 7

#3S Wofford
MARCH 2, GAME 4
30 MINUTES AFTER GAME 3GAME 3 #6N VMI

“My biggest problem in the past has been inconsistency,” Marshall said. “This year one of my main goals was to
be consistent. I think I’ve gotten a lot better at that. I think our senior class has been better as
a whole. I feel like we’re peaking now at the right time.”

Kosmalski agreed. “We’ve got to make sure we’re playing hard all the time. We’ve got to practice hard all the
time to play hard all the time.”

Kosmalski has been a model of consistency throughout his four-year career. The 6-7 forward from Bedford, Texas, has scored over
1400 points and grabbed over 800 rebounds. In the history of Davidson basketball, he ranks third in total rebounds and
eleventh in scoring. He has led the team in rebounding in 18 games this season and has 22 double-doubles during
his career. As a junior, Kosmalski earned a spot on the All-Southern Conference second team, after not missing a start.
The only start he has missed for the last four years was Senior Day ’96, his freshman season.

Kosmalski and Marshall have been potent deep threats, too. Their inside game is hard enough to defend, but these two
big men can step outside and hit the three, too. Marshall shoots over 40 percent from behind the arc.

Jeff Bergmann has played a strong role in this year’s success and made five starts. The 6-4 sharpshooter had a
career-high 19 points in a win over Chattanooga in mid-February. Bergmann has contributed more points this season than he had
in the previous three seasons combined. “Off the court we’ve established a great friendship these last four years,” Bergmann said
of his senior teammates. “The friendship that we’ve had the last four years, that’s something you can’t eclipse.”

Halbauer’s season, unfortunately, ended prematurely when he tore his ACL at Charleston after playing only eleven games. For senior day,
Halbauer, a native of Croatia, dressed in uniform for the pre-game ceremony. Halbauer has been one of the deadliest three-point
shooters in Davidson history. He ranks sixth all-time with 128 threes and has a 35.8 career three-point shooting percentage. “We've
spent a lot of time together. We've had fun out there,” said Halbauer.

But this group’s leadership has gone beyond statistics and wins. Not only have they matured and improved as people and
players, but they also have helped the younger players grow. They have ignored the pressure this season and tried to
enjoy playing. “We still have a lot of expectations on us since we are four seniors. There has been a
lot of pressure on our class,” Marshall said. “I think we all have tried to play with a looser type
of attitude and have fun out there.”

“They don’t allow anything to slip,” McKillop said. “They’re consistent in the way they work in practice. They’re consistent in
the way they handle themselves on and off the court. And being that way, they’ve been great role models. It’s
hard to believe, that being two or three years older than these guys, yet they’re great role models for the
freshmen and sophomores.”

BREAKING NEWS

Three Wildcats make All-Conference teams

Wayne Bernard was named to the Southern Conference’s All-Freshman team early this week. Bernard is the first Davidson freshman named
to the team since Landry Kosmalski in 1996. Bernard’s senior teammates, Stephen Marshall and Kosmalski, were named to the All-Conference
team.
