, 12 Tue DAVIDSONIAN VIEWPOINT Thursday, April 20, 2000

Powell juror speaks out: ‘Davidson holds itself to a higher standard’

As a member of the Davidson student body, as a student who serves on the Honor Council, and as one
of the two students who sat on one of John Powell’s judicial hearings last October, I send this from overseas
with the distant hopes that a collective point of view might be expressed and that an evidently sweeping issue might
be clarified with some inside/outside perspective. More immediately, though, I present you with my thoughts on the atmosphere of honor
at Davidson as they pertain to recent discussion in The Davidsonian. Whether intentionally or not, the decision I helped make
and my very role on campus have been criticized and thrown into question.

Was I qualified to require John Powell to seek alcohol and anger management counseling? More broadly, how can I impose
life-altering sanctions upon a fellow student... with no accountability to the community and no sense of responsibility for my actions?
I have been trying to convince myself over the past four months that to take personal offense to the Powell
family’s legal pursuits would be a waste of mental and emotional energy. But it’s all personal. I think about it
and feel it all the time.

To the questions raised by Katie Schill in her “Critical Look,” I respond likewise in question: Just how much “practical
training” would be necessary for your “grossly unqualified” peers to make such judgments? What would you have us trained in?
Thinking? Reasoning? Caring? That is what we do in trials. That is what we do every day. Whom would you
have train us? Someone who thinks, reasons, and cares better than we? And under whose training did he or she
become qualified to instruct? How many contrived training sessions and retreats can we expect to notch on our belts before
any of us, honor council or not, are qualified to function as human beings? We differentiate between right and wrong,
and at some point we must recognize our independent ability to do so. Why do we assume that the more
procedural we make our lives, the more sound our thoughts and actions will be?

Furthermore, the notion that members of the Council are unaware of the gravity of the sanctions they decide upon is
blasphemous. The idea that we are power-hungry is outrageous. It’s not pleasant, and that’s exactly the point. We shoulder our
accountability and responsibility all the time. We remain silent out of respect and honor, never out of the shame of
a rashly made decision. At Davidson, we want more for ourselves than the status quo. Does that not demand that
we hold ourselves to a higher standard? We certainly hold ourselves in a higher esteem. We reap the benefits of
an honor system daily. We don’t walk around feeling smug about it. But here it is, now, pinching people... and
it hurts. It’s hurting me. It’s hurting John Powell. It hurts families, friends, and professors. It hurts every student brought
to trial and every member of the Honor Council.

The pinch is nothing new, but all of a sudden someone is standing out, asking us if we like this
hurt. Nobody likes to be pinched. There must be something wrong. So why did we sign onto this? We could
feel good about ourselves all the time. We could tell ourselves that small, petty violations of the Code are not
worth getting upset over, not worth the discomfort that denouncing them causes, not worth the disruption of our schedules, not
worth the wrenching honesty of a solid decision. Can you imagine anything worse than the cycle of self-deception this mentality
would generate? We have been challenged to reexamine a

As the weather improves and morals unconsciously loosen, people are emerging out of their winter hibernation to join fellow students
in pursuit of ephemeral or even lasting bliss. On sultry sunny afternoons, young Davidsonians can be seen at the lake
campus sailing, water-skiing, canoeing, and even swimming. Musicians bring their instruments to the campus lawns and serenade willing and unwilling
listeners. Professors choose to utilize the “outdoor classrooms,” allowing students to immerse themselves in the aesthetically pleasing designated national arboretum.
In the Carolina spring, Davidson College can appear to be any young adult’s paradise. One of the most enticing elements
of the Davidson experience, however, is that undergraduates are

Beyond semi-rural North Carolina, have traveled extensively prior to their junior year and plunged into completely new environments. A semester
or year spent studying abroad, however, allows for a unique opportunity. This may be the only chance in your life
to sit in a classroom with people from other countries and broaden your perspective in any given field of study.
How do you expect, for example, to be an amateur political scientist on Eastern European affairs if you have never
set foot on the continent? Are there any artists on campus who wouldn’t benefit immensely from making a journey to
Florence, Rome, or Greece? Admittedly, the majority of Davidson College students take advantage of the chance to study abroad. Those
who choose not to should notask themselves “why?” and take temporary leave. “You can drink beer like a German, tan
topless like a Swede, and even mock America like a true Frenchman.” There are many of you who cannot get
enough of this place. Not even the most stimulating lecture or fun-filled and decadent Patterson Court celebration can satiate your
yearning for more. You have had an excellent experience on campus since the day you left your hometown behind and
want to make the most of “the best four years of your life.” In order to indulge in Davidson to
the fullest extent possible, however, you must leave. Once you have studied in a foreign country, perhaps become proficient in
another language and frolicked in countless unknown metropolises, you can better appreciate what Davidson has to offer. You can drink
beer like a German, tan topless like a Swede, and even mock America like a true Frenchman.

Unquestionably, several students at Davidson double major. These reasons are obviously legitimate, but would the minor sacrifices made to leave
campus not be compensated for by the growth in character and the broadening of perspective? Students who have lived in
an unfamiliar environment and are proficient in a language other than English are undoubtedly very attractive in most job markets.
The atmosphere at Davidson is often considered very “academic” as opposed to “intellectual.” You can transcend this misconception by being
a true student in search of the ultimate cerebral experience and study on a campus other than this one. If
you don’t, you'll probably regret the decision later.

Anna Eriksson ’00 — Copy Editor

We laud it, we walk it, we live it. The Honor Code is the foundation of our lives inside and
outside of Davidson. I think such reexamination is healthy; no institution should be clung to merely out of reverence for
its history. Maybe there are elements that can be tightened, aspects that can be better defined. In order that any
of this be worthwhile, though, we must be informed. The Honor Code is not an antiquated, dust-covered agent of fear
and mystery. It is the lifeblood of our universe. But it has been more or less ignored by too many,
to such a degree that they feel subjugated to and uninformed by a higher power. For this, they have no
one to blame but themselves. They choose not to read the Red Book. They chose not to attend the mock
trial organized with the specific intent of demystification of the Code and its implementation. When John Powell and his parents
went to the Pitt County judge, they did not take his issue to the next level. They dragged it down
and threaten to drag Davidson down along with it. Anyone can go to a court of law. Anyone can sue.
In the litigious society our culture has tended to so diligently, anyone can claim just about anything, and get a
jury of just about anyone to award them just about any form of compensation. Davidson is not just any place,
is it? It is a step above. A step above that I cherish and will fight for.

Winnie Corrigan ’01

Students for New Learning: promoting the awareness of learning differences

Students for New Learning (SNL) began at a dinner held two weeks ago when 12 students came together to share
their experience as being a few of the 100 students at Davidson with learning differences. As we have become more
organized, SNL has not only gained the support of 20 other students who also have learning differences but faculty, staff,
and other students as well. This support both encourages us and builds our momentum to accomplish our goal of increasing
campus awareness of learning disabilities. Our mission states that primarily SNL is a forum where students can share personal success
stories and challenges. In this forum, students participate in programs designed to educate them on coping strategies, career planning, accommodations,
self-advocacy, and interpersonal relationships. Secondarily, SNL facilitates campus awareness through speakers, panel discussions, workshops, and other resources. SNL recognizes that
students with learning differences can be and are academic, campus, and team leaders. By providing a system of support, SNL
seeks to empower students to reach their potential and become the leaders they can be at Davidson College. We encourage
everyone interested in becoming a member of SNL and our campaign to increase awareness of learning disabilities to contact Paul
Gravel by telephone at 704.907.6567 or by email at pagravel@davidson.edu. To respect the confidentiality of the individual student, membership to
SNL—Student Forum is limited to those students who have a documented learning disability. However, membership to SNL—Education Task Force is
open to all campus members.

Paul Gravel ’01

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

EDITORS IN CHIEF
EDITOR EMERITUS
ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER
DESIGNERS
Ben Covington
Cader Howard
COPY EDITOR
Anna Eriksson
NEWS EDITORS
Seth Davis
Ang. Gregory
Mike Anderson
Cindy Clark
Ina Spechar
Wes Goldsberry

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html
