The ALENDA DAVIDSON COLLEGI “The South's Foremost College Weekly” ESTABLISHED 1914

Cyprus vs. Turkey -- Round III NEWS 4,5

Editorial: Take Back The Night OPINIONS 6

SoCon Hoops Tourney This Weekend SPORTS 11,12

Cable in dorm rooms looks unlikely
Students, administrators speak out against cable television at exploratory forum
By Michael J. Kruse Editor Emeritus

Students and administrators gathered Thursday night in Chambers Gallery to discuss the potential implications of cable television installation in dorm rooms. But the forum quickly turned to a dispute over cable’s rightful place amongst other pressing campus issues.

“I have a problem with this debate as a whole,” said junior David Farnum. “Sexuality, gender relations, you name it, it’s more important than cable. This is a petty debate. I’m kind of disgusted.”

“I really feel like this issue is not as important as some of the others on campus,” added freshman Beth Gardner, an SGA senator. “Other issues are definitely more pressing.”

Problems such as race and gender relations, recycling, student apathy, and the Outpost’s fate arose a number of times over the hour-long meeting. But cable TV has elicited more campus banter of late than just about anything else. Like it or not, it is an issue, thanks in large part to sophomore Joey Harris.

Harris, who earlier this month began his term as SGA Vice President, presented a resolution on November 9 calling for the administration to “explore the option.”

“We asked the administration to explore the option,” explained Harris. “And then when it made the front page of The Davidsonian and just took off from there.”

President Bobby Vagt met with SGA Nov. 16 to address the resolution. “From my perspective, this is not just a simple issue about whether or not you have cable. It gets at the heart of pulling people apart,” he said that night. “Every May there are 400 absolutely incredible people that walk across that lawn. I don’t think that’s an accident. I think it’s because we are a community. And I don’t want to embrace the idea of just one more opportunity to isolate people.”

Still, many students expressed a sense of entitlement toward cable viewing. “At the age of 20,” sophomore Henry Briffel said, “if I’m going to go out and socialize, I’m going to go out and socialize. I think cable is another outlet for entertainment and academic experience.”

A number of students at Thursday’s forum cited cable news networks such as MSNBC, CNBC, and CNN as potential opportunities to augment their overall educational experience. Junior Cameron Richardson disagrees. “I really have a lot of

Panel to discuss learning
By Mike Anderson Editor-in-Chief

With an average SAT score in the 1300s, many would assume that academic and intellectual life has been a care-free journey for just about every student at Davidson College. Far from it. Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano estimates that between 80-100 Davidson students have some degree of a diagnosed learning disability, ranging from dyslexia to ADD.

In an ongoing effort to understand the challenges of students’ learning disabilities, the college will sponsor a Learning Disabili-trouble understanding why we have to watch TV to get the news,” she said. “Read a newspaper. If we endorse cable, that’s saying it’s just as important a choice as anything else. I don’t think it is.” Neither does the administration. Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley are decidedly anti-cable. “This isn’t about giving everybody everything he or she wants,” Vagt told the smallish crowd of a couple dozen. “That’s never happened in my lifetime, and it’s probably not going to happen in yours. This isn’t about TV. And it’s not about trusting your judgment.”

What it is about, he maintained, is Davidson’s much-talked-about community—and the effect cable TV would or could have on it. “Do we provide people with another option not to be together?” Vagt asked. “I think we’re improved by the time we spend with each other.”

Cable would actually be a money-making proposition for the college. The service would most likely entail a per-semester fee for each individual student or room. Harris mentioned numbers ranging from $20 to $25 a semester. But there are no definite dollar figures at this point. Technology isn’t a problem, either. Campus facilities, according to Dean of Residence Life Kurt Holmes, are well-equipped to be cable-ready sooner rather than later. “It would be easy to say, ‘OK, let’s hook it up,’” Shandley explained. “But I think we have to be more thoughtful than that. We need to take advantage of what is an incredibly talented student body. I don’t think cable is a good idea at all.” Especially, Holmes says, with TV lounges on every residence hall.

Answering Harris’s other SGA resolution, the college has promised that each hall will have its own lounge complete with cable access beginning this fall. The construction of a new dormitory has opened enough beds on campus for RLO to allot one or two rooms per hall to a new lounge. Holmes has expressed no public opposition to cable, but he hopes that the new lounges will help answer students’ call for increased access to cable television. “We need to give the new lounges a chance.”

A student watches television in the College Union TV room. Mike Anderson

Disabilities Awareness Forum at 7:30 PM on Tuesday, March 14. The panel discussion—including college faculty members, students, counselors, and psychologists—will be held in the Morrison Room of the College Union. “Our primary goal is to increase campus awareness of these disabilities,” says Paul Gravel, a Davidson junior who suffers from dyslexia and attention deficit disorder. Gravel acknowledges that the college effectively addresses many issues facing students with learning disabilities. Any student with a history of learning disabilities may undergo an evaluation by a college-designated learning specialist in Charlotte. That specialist then makes recommendations to the college regarding special accommodations, ranging from extra time on tests to textbooks on tape. But many unnecessarily feel that a disability diagnosis indicates weakness as a student at Davidson when, as Gravel suggests, those students with learning disabilities have...

See Learning, page 2.

INTL. COMMENTARY .........
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036