THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

The Davidson community, by nearly all accounts, is an active and over-achieving bunch—a campus wondrously saturated with programs, events, and
opportunities across a wide spectrum. But some fear that the very frenzied pace that this community supports produces some rather
negative byproducts—primarily that students are often so busy in their individual and small-group endeavors that they rarely have time to
congregate en masse, and secondly, that the fast-paced life of a typical student affords little time for reflection, casual conversation,
and relaxation.

Many see this “community hour” (often called the “free hour” or “common hour”) as an antidote to both ills. “This
campus definitely stresses community,” said SGA President Dane Erickson. “But sometimes we get caught up in our individual daily lives
so much that we fail to take advantage of each other on a day-to-day basis.”

“Clearly, Davidson is a pack of overachievers—both the students and the faculty,” said associate professor Scott Denham, chair of the
German department. “As a result, the so-called ‘Davidson family’ members are ever more apparitions than realities, it seems, because people
are so over-scheduled and over-committed.”

Proponents envision two distinct types of activity filling these “community hours.” A high priority seems to be the availability of
campus-wide programming opportunities—where the entire student body would be invited to pack into Belk Arena or the new Knobloch Campus
Center to hear a speaker, watch a movie, or take in an artistic performance.

“You could schedule a major event like this,” said Erickson, “and count on the fact that the entire campus will
have the option to come. Regardless of your major, athletic commitments, or organizational involvements, everyone will have that hour to
come together and share in a common event.”

President Vagt actively supports this type of campus-wide programming. “Any activity which draws people together [voluntarily] in broad groups is
bound to have a positive impact on this campus.”

On the opposite end of the spectrum, supporters also hope the “hour off” will engender casual get-togethers and provocative conversations,
as well as personal time for reflection and even much-needed occasional naps. “A lot of it is a sort of
touchy-feely notion that maybe this could be a time to share an afternoon coffee or a walk to the post
office with students and fellow faculty and staff,” said Dr. Denham. “That’s sort of romantic and might not happen, but
who knows? Maybe it could.”

Nevertheless, many doubts remain about the efficacy of such a plan. “It sounds good in theory,” said Nicholas Blackwell, a
junior classics major. “But I don’t really see a benefit to it. I don’t think many people will do much
with it.”

Dr. Denham, too, acknowledged that not all students will engage in the activities. “People might just snack or sleep or
do whatever they want, and that’s OK. At least the potential is there.”

Cameron Richardson, a senior elected to the CCRL, agreed that students might opt simply to nap, watch television, or do
extra homework. “The hour will be what we make of it,” she noted. But, she added, “It certainly can’t hurt.
Any opportunity that allows Davidson students to participate on intercollegiate or club athletic teams.”

“If we pushed our practices either an hour earlier or later,” said Blackwell, who swims for the Davidson men’s team,
“we might be either starting morning practice at 5:15 a.m. or ending our evening practice at 7 p.m.”

“The principal hurdle has been scheduling,” acknowledged Vagt. Even if the schedule could be adapted, many other decisions would have
to follow. Who would regulate such time to ensure it was not being usurped by academic, athletic, or extracurricular meetings?
Who would be responsible for programming activities for the hour?

Administrators & Staff
Dean Tom Shandley, Dean of Students
Dean Kurt Holmes, Dir. of RLO
William Brown, Dir. Student Activities
Ruth Pittard, Community Service Dir.
Rob Spach, Chaplain
Craig Rinker, Patterson Court Adviser

Faculty
Dr. Mario Belloni
Dr. Scott Denham
Dr. Ramon Figueroa
Dr. Ann Fox
Dr. Alan Parker
Dr. John Wertheimer
Dr. John Yukich

CCRL at a GlanceThe group manages to maintain a relatively low profile, but the Advisory Council on Campus & Religious
Life (CCRL) wields a tremendous amount of power. Its recommendations carry no binding authority but are heavily—almost singularly—considered by President
Vagt in his decision-making on campus life issues. The Council—a 23-person panel chaired by Dean of Students Tom Shandley and
comprised of elected faculty, designated administrators, and 13 elected and appointed students—carries tremendous clout and has effected significant changes in
campus life, most recently advocating the institution of a new co-ed eating house.

Students Dane Erickson ’01, SGA Pres. Joey Harris ’02, SGA VP Kirk Willingham ’01, Union Board Pres. Chad Phillips ’01,
PCC Brent Wilson ’01, UCA John Foster ’03, SGA Appointee Alison Suflas ’03, SGA Appointee Amber Hartman ’02, SGA Appointee
Dan Carman ’01, SGA Appointee Lauren Urbanski ’01, At-Large Cameron Richardson ’01, At-Large Matthew Moretz ’01, At-Large Matt West ’01,
At-Large students and faculty and staff to come together in a positive community-oriented interaction can only be good.”

Carrie Porath, another senior who sat on the CCRL during their deliberations on the topic, echoed these sentiments. “At worst,
people won’t value the idea and it will hassle our schedule,” she acknowledged. “But at best, this is a chance
to come together as a community—students, maintenance workers, faculty, everyone. Whether it’s for a discussion, a speaker, a moment of
reflection, or just a doughnut, this is an opportunity to instill a true sense of community here. I really hope
we cherish it.”

“I think it’s a wonderful idea,” agreed head men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop. But he raised the same legitimate apprehensions
shared by many involved in the debate. “Ideas are great, but they have impacts on so many other things that
they can be hard to implement.”

In order for this “community hour” to become a reality, a radical schedule adjustment will have to be accepted by
a variety of different constituencies. Either academic time would have to be condensed into a shorter period, or the academic
portion of the “division of the day” would have to be lengthened to compensate for the lost time. Understandably, the
faculty has voiced vehement opposition to the narrowing of the academic day. The other option, extending the academic portion of
the day, would spell out added hardship for many student-athletes.

And that is clearly the case. How would the campus afford to pay for a prominent outside speaker every week?
One of the most sticky decisions might entail the inclusion of hourly-waged staff members. While students and faculty alike maintain
that the “community hour” would be far from complete without the participation of campus staff members (such as physical plant
workers, food service staff, and maintenance persons), the proposition of paying staff members for an extra hour off could prove
a difficult pill to swallow for the administration.

“There are a lot of complications,” acknowledged Dean of Students Tom Shandley. “Everyone supports the idea, but it is going
to be tough to work it in.”

The final piece of the puzzle would be student participation. All programming during that period would be optional—so are students
likely to take advantage of the “down time”? Or will it become yet another hour full of homework, or even
behind-closed-doors organizational meetings?

“If it’s not an hour that truly means something,” said Vagt, “then it quickly becomes an hour where people just
do other things.” Nevertheless, proponents of the plan term it a vital necessity to the well-being of this campus and
its community members.

“For students who come to Davidson, free time is time that you spend doing other things that you need to
do. Everything is according to schedule. Students come in with less of an ability to stop and take time to
do things that aren’t in the plan,” explained Vagt. “So does this institution have a responsibility to help students, maybe
even teach them, how to reflect and relax—to take time to use productively for yourself? That’s a real question for
us as an institution—what is our obligation?”
