White Analyses Pinochet Case, International Justice System
— BY RICHARD VINSON, Editor-in-chief

Davidson graduate Jamison White ’97 addressed a full house last Friday, September 1, in the Carolina Inn on the extradition of General Augusto Pinochet, former president of Chile. White, an aspiring young lawyer, presented students and faculty a revised and condensed version of his article, “Nowhere to Run, Nowhere to Hide: Augusto Pinochet, Universal Jurisdiction, the ICC, and a Wake-up Call for Former Heads of State,” which appeared last year in the Case Western Reserve Law Review. The Dean Rusk SAC and the Pre-Law Society cosponsored this event.

White’s talk gave an in-depth look at the politics involved in and the precedents set by this landmark case. More generally, it also considered the evolution of the international justice system and the concept of universal jurisdiction. The arrest of Pinochet in 1998 in Great Britain and the attempts to extradite him to Spain set in motion a series of hearings to determine his fate. This whole process, according to White, fell into three main stages.

In the first episode, Pinochet’s case went before the Queen’s Bench, roughly equivalent to a U.S. district court of appeals. There, the three-judge panel supported his claim to continuing immunity for acts committed as head of state. This decision was appealed, sending the case to Britain’s highest court, the House of Lords. In this instance, a panel of five lords overturned the original ruling by a three-to-two vote. They based this decision on the observation that the charges in question, namely gross violations of basic civil and human rights, could not constitute official government actions. As such, explained White, former president Pinochet could not have been acting in his role as head of state in the commission of those crimes.

Shockingly, this verdict was once again overturned. Further investigation revealed that one of the lords had failed to disclose a bias. In fact, he admitted that he was a supporter of Amnesty International, which, according to White, was a sufficient reason to suspect prejudice. Finally, the case went before another panel of seven lords, which upheld the earlier decision to allow extradition. Nevertheless, this decision had to pass through Britain’s home secretary, who ruled that Pinochet was unfit to stand trial and sent him home to Chile.

In a recent turn of events, White noted, the new Chilean government has appealed the amnesty granted to Pinochet in 1974. Although the ex-president will probably never see the inside of a courtroom, White concluded that the entire process, including the most recent decision, is a big step towards combating the immunity of former heads of state.

White also commented on the growing push to expand and improve the international justice system. Most recently, the ad hoc tribunals for Rwanda and for the former Republic of Yugoslavia have made strides towards holding war criminals accountable for their actions. The International Criminal Court (ICC) is also expected to play a leading role in the near future in prosecuting those responsible for war crimes.and crimes against humanity. All of these developments serve to strengthen the doctrine of universal jurisdiction. This term refers to the notion that some crimes deserve universal condemnation, and thus, that such crimes, including war crimes, torture, and genocide, fall under the jurisdiction of any nation.

Dr. John Wertheimer of the history department commended White for “his generosity and his willingness to give back to his school.” Wertheimer explained that White had contacted him to let him know that he was going to be in the Davidson area. White offered to come to classes and speak as well as to discuss his recent article. Said Wertheimer, “I thought it was a good opportunity for him to share his expertise with our pre-law students.” Realizing that the topic was relevant both to pre-law students and to students of international studies, Wertheimer contacted Mr. Ken Brown of the Dean Rusk program. Consequently, Dean Rusk and the Pre-law Society cosponsored this event.

Self-selection questions still remain
By CASEY SAMS
Staff Writer

CoHo, the new co-ed eating house, has officially opened at 120 Patterson Court. After major renovations that took the majority of the summer and the first two weeks of the school year to complete, the members enjoyed their first meal in the new house on Sunday evening. A co-ed eating house has not existed on Patterson Court in over ten years. The idea of the co-ed eating house came about in the fall of 1999, but the house could not come into being until at least forty individuals had declared their intent to join and made a $50 deposit backing that statement. Ben Carter ’01, now the president of CoHo, led the movement to attract students to the house. Through the diligence and effort of a few enthusiastic supporters, forty people committed to the house and made their deposits. CoHo officially began in May 2000.

The statement of purpose says that, “CoHo strives to promote community, service, and diversity. As responsible, committed members of the college community, we engender a healthy environment of camaraderie, scholarship, and silliness.” With this mission, the members of CoHo wish to provide a setting where men and women can socialize in a manner dissimilar to the stereotypical court interaction. Currently, CoHo has fifty-four eating members and four social members. The vast majority of this population is made up of ex-independents who have finally found their niche on the Court.

Patterson Court Council is currently deliberating the creation of several new guidelines governing CoHo during Rush and Self-Selection. PCC is still debating these issues, but one certainty is that members will in no way “rush” or otherwise encourage freshmen or freshwomen to join their house. An unofficial accordance states that CoHo will follow the guidelines set forth by the women’s eating houses currently residing on the court. All of the members of this house are eagerly awaiting the rest of the school year to exhibit their individuality and put their new ideas to create an inclusive community into effect in the Davidson community.