See the PowerPoint for more information about Seale Global and its 163-year history. Eight million dollars of the grant will be applied to the construction of The Duke Family Performance Hall, which will be dedicated in the fall of 2001 as part of the $36-million Knobloch Campus Center. Two million dollars of the Duke Endowment grant will create a scholarship endowment to provide financial aid for students whose families are in the middle-income range. “Students from middle-income families have been the backbone of our college throughout its history,” said Dean of Admission and Financial Aid.

By PETER CAMPBELL AND MATT GARFIELD
Staff Writer and News Editor

He was one of the greatest thinkers in history, and although he has been dead for more than 40 years, interest in the life and work of Albert Einstein is still very high. That was proven again as more than 300 Davidson students, faculty, and community members packed the 900 Room of the College Union to learn about the great scientist from Clifford Will, author of the 1986 book "Was Einstein Right?" Will, chair of the physics department and member of the McDonnell Center for the Space Sciences at Washington University, was speaking as the college’s Smith Lecturer. His book on Einstein, one of his more than 160 publications, won the 1987 American Institute of Physics Science Writing Award and was selected as one of the 200 best books for 1986 by the New York Times Book Review.

Will called Einstein’s oft-debated theory of relativity “one of the most remarkable theories of our time” and discussed its applications in daily life. He began the talk by explaining the history of relativity. “In the 1920s, there was a prevailing notion that relativity was beyond the understanding of man,” he said. But due to Einstein’s research, “Beginning in the 1960s, there was a dramatic renaissance of the theory. It’s now a central part of the physicist’s enterprise.”

Although Einstein died in 1955, said Will, his work achieved its greatest fame after his death for three reasons. A new breed of theorists who preferred observable quantities over abstract formulas emerged, the discovery of cosmic phenomena such as quasars, pulsars, black holes, and gravitational lenses, and the explosion of high-precision technology, including the space program and the laser, have each played a role in the emergence of the theory. He added that Einstein developed general relativity without worrying about its full implications and was less concerned with the science of observing the predicted phenomena than with recognizing and respecting the beauty of the theory.

Dr. Clifford Will, author of "Was Einstein Right?", made general relativity accessible to a large crowd in the 900 Room.

Professor Dan Boye, chair of the Physics department, introduced the speaker. Later, Boye said Will is one of probably 1,000 physicists in the world who understand the mathematics of Einstein’s theory. So was Einstein right? Was his theory correct? Will seemed to indicate that he was, but stopped short of saying it outright. “I won’t answer the question for you,” said Will. “I’ll let you draw your own conclusions.”

Eron Earley-Thiele.

DIA, from page 1

The belief that a permanent house would allow much more informal interaction between students, which, in their eyes, is the best way to dispel myths about DIA’s role on campus. “We think that having a house will increase our visibility,” noted Unnikrishnan. Not only would DIA receive benefits from the use of the Outpost, but members believe they would also add a “distinct flavor” to Court life. Paul commented that were DIA to obtain the Outpost, they would be able to increase their capacity to organize creative programming. For instance, she mentioned “Quesadilla movie night” as one such new idea, which would offer great food and a foreign movie for those attending. The Outpost would also allow DIA to offer more internationalcoffees, a comfortable venue for conversation or just relaxation. Unnikrishnan pointed to the increasing size of DIA events in the recent past as evidence of their need for a permanent home. “The International Festival during Parents’ Weekend was huge,” she stated. Such events require both a place for members to plan them and a suitable space to hold the activities. DIA members are hopeful that they can convince the CCRL that they are “a viable social option” and that they can “bring a distinct flavor to Patterson Court,” said Unnikrishnan. Dean of Students and CCRL Chairman Tom Shandley said that it is too early to speculate about what the committee might decide to do. “While I support DIA and what they do here on campus, it is premature to say anything definite,” he asserted. Should CCRL choose to support DIA’s bid for the Outpost, they would make a recommendation to that effect to President Vagt, who would then make the final decision. In this particular case, though the committee would certainly seek their input, PCC has no official say in the matter, as DIA is not a Patterson Court organization.

11/12/00 Breaking & Entering — Larceny
Unknown person(s) entered the victim’s office in Preyer without permission and removed without her consent approximately $35 in coins. There were no signs of forced entry.

11/10/00 Larceny
Unknown person(s) entered the victim’s office in Chambers without permission and removed without her consent a black leather billfold that contained personal identification, credit cards, and $52 in cash. The office was not secure at the time of the incident. The victim stated that she was out of her office for approximately 10 minutes and did not see anyone in the area.

Larceny
Unknown person(s) entered the victim’s office in the Visual Arts Center without permission and removed without her consent a black leather billfold that contained personal identification, credit cards, and $30 in cash. The office was not secure at the time of the incident. The victim stated that she was out of her office for approximately 3 minutes.

Sick/Injured person
Complainant informed an officer that he injured himself while attempting to exit the rear patio of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. The complainant sustained injuries to his hand, forearm, and knee. The subject was treated and released.

Suspicious person
Officers responded to the locker rooms near the baseball field to investigate a suspicious person complaint. The complainant observed a subject in the locker room looking around. The subject quickly left the locker room once the complainant acknowledged his presence. The subject was not in the area upon the officers’ arrival. Nothing was reported missing from the area.

11/09/00 Sick/Injured person
EMS responded to the CoHo eating-house to investigate an allergic reaction complaint. The subject was examined and treated by EMS.

11/08/00 Suspicious person
The complainant observed a subject near his office in Baker Sports Complex. The complainant confronted the subject by asking his name. The subject left the area and the complainant checked his office to see if anything was missing. An unknown amount of cash was missing. The complainant’s office was not secure at the time of the incident.

11/07/00 Larceny of a bicycle
Unknown person(s) removed without the victim’s consent a red “Haro Escape” bicycle from a bike rack near the Visual Arts Center. The bike was not secured to the bike rack. It is valued at approximately $400.

Sick/Injured person
Officer responded to Belk residence hall to investigate an intoxicated student complaint. Upon arrival, the officer observed the subject vomiting in the hall. A witness informed the officer that the subject had been drinking earlier at the Phi Delta Theta fraternity house. The subject was transported to a local hospital for treatment.

11/06/00 Larceny of clothing
The complainant stated an unknown person removed 2 items of clothing without her consent from the laundry room in West residence hall.

Compiled By Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of Public Safety & Campus Police