6. THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

International

CHECHNYA: Compassion on Retreat

Brandon Hoop
Staff Writer

Since December 25, Russia has been embroiled in a civil war against the rebel state of Chechnya. Attempts to bring
security and stability to the war-torn motherland have given birth to an unfocused, stumbling war effort.

On January 22, Russian troops claimed to have seized over one-third of the Chechen capital city of Grozny while continual
air strikes and artillery bombardments were further intensified in the eastern part of the city.

It was reported that between 8,000 to 25,000 civilians remain inside the capital during the attack. The Russian military will
not allow the citizens to vacate the city.

These Chechen citizens, unable to escape the besieged city, are casualties-waiting-to-happen as the Russians continue their artillery bombing.

The Russian government describes their efforts as “antiterrorist operations” and “surgical strikes against bandits,” but thousands of Chechen civilians have
been killed, and 200,000 more forced to flee their homeland.

The invasion began in September of this year, after Chechen militants attacked villages in neighboring Dagestan. The Islamic fundamentalists were
also blamed for a series of bombings of Russian troop barracks and apartments in Moscow. The guerilla tactics left over
300 Russians dead.

Prime Minister (and acting president) Vladimir Putin describes the rebel province of Chechnya as “part of Russia,” but the region
has served as a hotbed of resistance since the 18th century.

Chechnya gained de facto independence in the First Chechen War, from 1994-1996.

That conflict was disastrous for the Russian leadership, but this latest clash has garnered overwhelming support from the Russian citizenry.

The militant Islamic forces under the leadership of Shamil Basayev only comprise a minority of Chechen citizens. Of the 34
ethnic groups in the region, 95 percent are either nonmilitant Islams, Jews, or Christians.

But the war isn’t just about religion. In calling for a “Russia-free zone,” Basayev is demanding an increased investment in
oil pipeline construction through Chechnya.

Another source of contention is the sporadic, apathetic assistance that the impoverished region receives from Moscow.

Putin depicts the purported “freedom fighters” as “mercenaries who cloak themselves in religious slogans.” In an article submitted to the
New York Times, Putin made a case for Russia’s need to restore “civil society” to the region. Furthermore, he pledged
to avoid “direct attacks on Chechen communities.”

Putin likened the Chechen terrorist-style assaults on Moscow to hypothetical bombings of Washington hotels by Montana militia groups.

But as his words circulated throughout the world, bombs continued to fall on the besieged rebel region. Reports in October
suggested as many as 800 Chechen civilians had already perished. Reporters on the scene described the obliteration of entire Chechen
villages by Russian warplanes.

Putin has rallied public support for the effort, labeling the campaign “a matter of national pride.”

The recently-named president seeks to restore international credibility after his army, the second-largest in the world, suffered an embarrassing defeat
in the First Chechen War.

The campaign is further seen as an effort to distract Muscovites from the government’s inability to resist corruption and lift
the nation out of economic turmoil.

The popularity of the campaign in Chechnya is projected to catapult Putin into re-election in March’s presidential vote.

Putin has been polled as the most popular politician in Russia since he was appointed acting president upon Yeltsin’s resignation
on December 31.

The change of power marked the first-ever peaceful transition of executive authority in Russia’s history.

Many sympathetic to the Chechens’ plight charge that the Clinton Administration has compromised America’s commitment to human rights in favor
of stable relations with Moscow.

Though the Administration reportedly lodges daily complaints in Moscow, the United States has rejected Europe’s ultimatum of cutting foreign aid
to the stagnant Russian economy.

Because of Russia’s struggling economy, foreign aid remains a powerful lobbying tool. As such, it is inconceivable that the United
States refuse to play this card in an effort to prevent human death and suffering.

Good relations with this nuclear world power are of course vital, but we should above all maintain our commitment to
human rights.

The author is a first-year political science major from Southern Pines, NC.

Wanted Immediately!
Student Baseball Manager

Please Contact
Coach Damon Towe
at the Baseball Field Office -
x2043

© 1999 VarsityBooks.com Inc.

We know you wanted a little more time to socialize before you hit the books, but at VarsityBooks.com we're so
darn fast you'll have your textbooks in one to three business days. But at least we're saving you up to
40% and offering you a Web site that’s completely reliable and secure. Look at it this way, you've got at
least one free night ahead of you. So what are you waiting for? It certainly isn’t us.

Savings off distributor’s suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. See website for more details.
