WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2000

Young Wildcats poised to challenge for SoCon title

By WILL ROBERSON
Sports Editor

Since advancing to the NCAA Tournament in 1998, the Davidson Wildcats have recorded an impressive 21-11 record in conference play
but have been unable to win a SoCon tournament game. This season, the Wildcats revert to the unfamiliar role as
the hunter after wearing a bull’s eye on their back for much of the 1990s. That suits coach Bob McKillop
just fine.

“Looking forward to this year, it’s easy to focus on the fact that we have four seniors gone,” McKillop told
a recent gathering at River Run. “You hear what is said in the newspapers and the internet and the talk
around town—they say this is going to be a ‘rebuilding’ year.”

“Well, let me tell you something about this group,” the 12-year Wildcat coach said with a glimmer in his eye,
“They’ve taken that on as the biggest challenge in their lives.”

The Post

Gone are all-conference performers and leading scorers Landry Kosmalski and Stephen Marshall. The Wildcats have relied on a strong inside
game during McKillop’s tenure, and the continued success of that philosophy will depend on junior center Martin Ides and sophomore
forwards Jason Dickens, Michel Lusakueno, and Chris Pearson.

“We're not going to change our philosophy,” said assistant coach Matt Matheny. “(But) we will make some adjustments.”

“All four will have an equal opportunity for playing time. Whoever produces will be on the floor.”

All four have shown flashes of brilliance in the pre-season. Ides has shown a dramatic increase in his quickness, mobility,
and perhaps most importantly, his confidence. Dickens continues to provide a versatile inside/outside option for the Wildcats as a post
player that can step out and hit the jump shot as well. Lusakueno has added an array of post moves
to the raw athleticism that earned him increased playing time towards the end of last season. Pearson, a red-shirt sophomore,
has developed a potent jumper to add to his uncanny shot-blocking ability and defensive presence.

As a whole, the group is virtually untested in game situations but will be counted upon to contribute heavily this
season.

The Perimeter

Red-shirt junior Emeka Erege will surely be a welcome sight on the hardwood this season, returning after sitting out last
season recovering from injury. He adds a missing dimension to the Wildcat attack: a slashing wing player with a natural
ability to score and rebound. Co-captain with Erege is fellow junior Michael Bree. Bree earned the starting point guard position
a year ago and contributed a team-high 115 assists. Sophomore guard Wayne Bernard returns after his SoCon All-Freshman season a
year ago. Bernard will be looked to as more of a leader this season, both with his scoring and his
defense. Also seeing playing time in the backcourt for the Wildcats will be junior Fern Tonella and sophomore Peter Anderer.
Tonella started 19 games at the point a year ago and is especially effective at pushing the ball in transition.
Anderer, a pure shooter from New York City, has impressed in the pre-season with the improvements in his all-around game.

Two new additions to the Wildcat roster are freshmen Nick Booker and Jouni Eho. Booker, a 6-5 guard from Oceanside,
California, is finally able to compete after recovering from a foot injury. Eho, a 6-6 guard/forward from Finland, has looked
sharp in the pre-season, showing off a deadly jump shot and an innate toughness developed during a year in the
Finnish Army.

Rounding out the Wildcat squad are three walk-ons, sophomore Jarred Cochran and freshmen Jason Ford and McKinley Glover. All three
will be looked to provide depth and defensive pressure at both guard positions.

The Schedule

The Wildcats once again are faced with one of the toughest schedules in the country. The Cats open up as
part of an underrated field at the Top of the World Classic in Fairbanks, Alaska. Davidson’s first-round match-up is the
South Florida Bulls, a team that Athlon Sport’s College Basketball Preview predicts to advance to the Sweet 16. The Wildcats
return to the contiguous forty-eight states with a trip to Atlanta to face Georgia Tech on November 24. Wildcat fans
will be treated to a great game on November 28 as Penn, the favorite to win the Ivy League, visits
Belk Arena. After a trip to Elon, Davidson ventures into Cameron Indoor Stadium for the second straight year to face
the Duke Blue Devils on December 5. On December 9, Charlotte will make the trip across Mecklenburg County. Two Division
III games hold the team through finals and the winter holidays before a trip to The Pit in Albuquerque, New
Mexico, to compete in the Lobo Classic held at the University of New Mexico on December 29 and 30.

Aaron Dunham ‘00 and Matt Garfield contributed to this article.Charleston is the clear favorite in the Southern Conference

By WILL ROBERSON
Sports Editor

The new year brings with it the beginning of the Southern Conference slate. Here’s a preview of the competition facing
the Wildcats in the 2001 SoCon season.

North Division

UNC-Greensboro: Coming off their first winning season since 1995-96, the Spartans have high hopes for the new season. The UNC-G
backcourt is talented and experienced, returning three double-figure scorers including point guard Courtney Eldridge (11.2 ppg), guard Nathan Jameson (10.7
ppg), and 6-6 wing forward James Maye (13.4 ppg, 5.9 rpg). The Spartans add 6-8 junior David Schuck, the WAC’s
5th-leading rebounder at Air Force as a sophomore, and 7-2 redshirt freshman center Nathan Popp in the frontcourt.

Appalachian State: After representing the Southern Conference in the NCAA Tournament a year ago, the Mountaineers had one of the
worst summers imaginable. SoCon MVP Tyson Patterson graduated, coach Buzz Peterson left for a job at Tulsa, and leading scorer
Rufus Leach drowned in a boating accident. This leaves a lot of responsibility on the shoulders of the two returning
starters, guard Shawn Alexander and center Cory Cooper. Role players a year ago, both will be looked to for increased
scoring, rebounding, and leadership.

East Tennessee State: The Bucs return four starters from last year’s 14-15 team, including leading returning scorer D.J. McDuffie, a
6-2 senior guard. One thing ETSU lacks is height, which may lead to 6-9 freshman Cory Seels sliding into the
starting center position. Forward Adrian Meeks will be looked to for post offense and rebounding after averaging 9 points and
7 rebounds a game last season.

Western Carolina: Former Davidson assistant coach Steve Shurina inherits a Catamount team decimated by transfer and graduation. SoCon freshman of
the year Jarvis Hayes and his twin brother Jonas left for Georgia, and forward Dondrell Whitmore (13.1 ppg, 7.6 rpg)
graduated. Point guard Casey Rogers led the league in assists last season, but has very few options to pass to
in 2000-01.

Virginia Military Institute: The Keydets will look to rebound after losing 21 of their last 22 games last year and
finishing a miserable 6-23 overall. There is hope, however, with all-conference candidate Nick Richardson (12 ppg), guard Richard Bruce (9.4
ppg), and 6-9 center Eric Mann (7.3 ppg, 7.9 rpg, 1.8 bpg) returning. All three are seniors and will be
counted on to lead the Keydets in the 2000-2001 season.

South Division

College of Charleston: The Cougars, the consensus pick to win the SoCon championship, return all five starters from a year
ago. Leading the way is center Jody Lumpkin, the pre-season conference player of the year. Lumpkin averaged 15 points and
9 rebounds a game last season. Also returning for C of C is swingman Jeff Bolton, an all-conference performer a
year ago, averaging 15.6 points and 4.5 rebounds. James Griffin, in his second year with the Cougars after transferring from
Wake Forest, returns at the scoring guard position. Forward Leighton Bowie made the SoCon All-Freshman team last year, and incoming
freshman Thomas Mobley has been described as having “ACC talent.” Charleston invades Belk Arena February 24 in a game that
will be broadcast on ESPN2.

Georgia Southern: The Eagles are coming off their first above-.500 season since 1992-93, and return an impressive inside-outside duo in
guard Julius Jenkins and forward Kashien Latham. Jenkins averaged 15.5 points per game as a freshman last year, and Latham
is coming off a season where he scored 12.8 points and grabbed 7.5 rebounds per contest. Incoming point guard Sean
Peterson is expected to contend for all-conference status after starring at the JUCO level a year ago.

Wofford: Guard Ian Chadwick returns to the Terriers lineup as the league’s top returning scorer (16.8 ppg), and with a
chance to shatter the SoCon record for career 3-pointers. Chadwick will desperately miss his sidekick Starzee Walker, but the emergence
of point guard Jon Pryor (4.8 ppg, 3.5 apg) will help soften the blow.

Furman: After a very unimpressive regular season, the Paladins won twice in the SoCon tournament before losing a close 60-56
game to eventual champion App. State. Returning to lead the 2000-01 team is sophomore Karim Sochu, who averaged a solid
15.8 ppg and 7.4 rebounds per game as a freshman. Other starters returning are PG Guilherme Da Luz (5 apg),
guard Anthony Thomas (9.5 ppg), and forward Marcus Diligard (7.3 ppg).

Chattanooga: The Mocs will look to player of the year candidate Oliver Morton for a majority of their scoring and
rebounding. A 6-10 center, Morton averaged 12.8 points and 6.8 rebounds last season. UTC welcomes eight new players to their
roster, including Neil Ashby, a 6-8 forward transfer from Alabama, and Clyde McCully, a point guard JUCO transfer.

The Citadel: The Bulldogs return all seven lettermen from last season’s 9-20 team. The conference's most accurate 3-point threat is
junior Alan Puckett. Despite not graduating any players last season, the young roster still includes but one senior.

2000 Southern Conference Men’s Basketball Preseason Poll

North (1st place votes) Pts
1. UNCG (22) 184
2. Davidson (7) 153
3. Appalachian State (2) 135
4. East Tennessee State (2) 58
5. Western Carolina 58
6. VMI 44

South (1st place votes) Pts
1. College of Charleston (33) 198
2. Georgia Southern 146
3. Wofford 108
4. Furman 94
5. Chattanooga 92
6. The Citadel 39
