: Special Delivery from the North Pole

I first got into the toy delivery racket as a second job to help pay off my expenses at the
end of the year. Back then, the clergy was the “big time” for those outside the royalty. But even that
didn’t pan out as well as I'd hoped. When we started, it wasn’t complicated—just me and the missus making some
cheap wooden toys and peddling them from house to house on Christmas Eve. Slowly, we invested in the necessary capital—a
sled, a few reindeer, and a big sack. Before long, we had made enough to purchase our dream house at
the North Pole and move our base of operations there. Totally tax-free, of course.

Business really started to pick up as the European explorers started to export Christianity around the globe. Soon I had
to hire more help, and we added a few dozen of those little squirts—they like to be called “elves” for
whatever reason. By the nineteenth century, I made a big discovery. It’s all in the marketing. I can’t tell you
how much our profits increased when I started wearing this silly red suit. Kids love it. Advertising took care of
itself, as a few second-rate poems and jingles made us a household name. We had the basis for a first-rate
enterprise, and in 1908 we incorporated.

The early twentieth century witnessed exponential sales figures, but the best was yet to come. As we looked over our
business strategy in 1947, I realized how much the whole “religion” thing was holding us back. There were untapped markets
everywhere, all because of the archaic association between Christmas and Christianity. Winter 1948 was the first time we had what
I affectionately call Chri$tma$. Instead of spinning the whole celebration as a religious festival, we embraced a secular world, and
it welcomed us with open arms. It was the perfect marriage of a culture of excess looking for an outlet
and a savvy businessman ready to cash in on his status as a pop icon.

These past several decades have been nothing short of fiscal bliss. Globalization, the “new economy,” and a whole generation of
spineless parents have combined to put our operation on a new level. Consumers can’t spend their money fast enough, and
producers and retailers need ol’ Santa as an excuse to draw the mindless herds of Chri$tma$ shoppers into the malls.
More importantly, our sales figures among non-Christians have more than tripled in the past fifteen years. The secularization and commercialization
of Chri$tma$ is the best thing that ever happened to St. Nick.

Let’s face it—Chri$tma$ is the crowning gem of the modern global culture. It offers all people the chance to participate
in that defining human activity, commerce. It bridges social, ethnic, and religious divides, and it links all people in a
morally sanctioned glut of spending. Economies thrive, and children learn how to make their continued happiness dependent on constant acquisition.
All thanks to Santa, Inc.Merry Christmas. Love, Santa Claus

This is the final issue of The Davidsonian for the Fall 2000 semester. In the interim, please feel free to
send submissions to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We hope everyone has a restful and safe winter break and a prosperous new year.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson

Layout Editor
Tim Cook

Business Managers
Peter Clark
David Johnston

Copy Editor
Anna Kvanvig

News Editors
Matt Garfield
IT Tolentino

Advertising Manager
Matt Whited

Sports Editors
Cinculation Manager
Miller

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Useless discussion

The ridiculous amount of attention and controversy over Scott Buchanan’s word choice in his article has shown that, despite its
reputation as a bastion of conservatism, Davidson is not immune to the politically correct crybabies and loudmouths of this world.
The dispute illustrates the double standard and hypocrisy that is so prevalent in the opinions and attitudes of many feminists
and other individuals who seek benefit for their particular group of society.

In her November 8 article, Beth Jenkins asserts that “a man cannot be dehumanized and objectified by language the way
a woman can, as Lauren Baird and Cameron Richardson have brought that to our attention.” These three, so sensitive about
the deeper meaning of the word “beast,” somehow feel justified making this sweeping generalization about a man’s reaction to stereotypical
language! I can think of countless words that objectify men and categorize us into a particular stereotype. But most men
are, thankfully, not so sensitive to them. What, for example, does the word “asshole” mean? It is an object—and quite
a disgusting one at that—and it is only applied to men. Indeed it is a term that is much more
gender-exclusive than “slut.” Were an author to use the word in the Davidsonian, I doubt that any men would attack
him or her for being sexist—vulgar, maybe.

While feminists like Stephanie Mlynar and Etta Dixon “applaud Ms. Richardson and Ms. Baird for being willing to open this
discussion among Davidson students,” the truth is that their article has created needless controversy over three unimportant words that are
only degrading because they find it so. I have not talked to Scott, but I guarantee you that when he
called his debater an “ignorant slut” he was pirating humor from the Saturday Night Live skit, not trying to, in
Beth’s words, “degrade his fellow debater by calling him a woman, a promiscuous woman.” It is patently ludicrous to think
that was his intention. If feminists really think this, then they have allowed their obsession with their cause to take
them far beyond the bounds of sensibility. If Beth, Lauren, and Cameron have an open mind, they will see the
word “asshole” as an example of their generalizations, and thus their hypocrisy. If not, they will just think I am
one.

Jonathan Adler ‘01
