pot to get up neat if they feel moved to do so. Following the flutes, the show will take a turn appropriate to the setting, with tunes like Strauss’ “Blue Danube” and “Over the Rainbow” from the Wizard of Oz. Musicians will also perform some jazz pieces and even a hoedown. In the event of rain, the show will take place indoors.

Dr. Marye Anne Fox, Chancellor of North Carolina State University, will speak about “Transforming Undergraduate Science Education” at Davidson College’s annual Henry Louis Smith Lecture. The lecture will be free and open to the public, beginning at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of Chambers.

Project Life a huge success
Project Life would like to thank all the students, faculty, and staff who participated in the spaghetti dinner on September 15. Over 400 people attended, which is twice the number we had last year! We were blown away by your overwhelming show of support for such a worthy cause. Davidson College proved that its commitment to service is more than rhetoric - it is the heart of this institution. Special thanks go to Warner Hall, Connor House, Turner House, SAE, PIKA, and SPE for their contributions of food and attendees. We cannot wait to see you on October 26 at Ben and Jerry’s Day!!!

9/21/00 Minor Vehicle Accident
The driver of vehicle #1 was pulling away from the loading dock near Vail Commons and, in an attempt to avoid hitting the wall on the left side, did not notice a parked van and hit the parked vehicle. Damage to both vehicles was minor.

9/20/00 Larceny from a vehicle
An unknown person(s) removed without the owner’s consent a bag from their parked vehicle on Concord Road that contained 4 bottles of prescription medicine.

Contributed by Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of Public Safety and Campus Police

By Mary Garry, News Editor
Andy Baxter can feel the blood on his hands. The Davidson United Methodist minister is on a crusade to end what he considers to be an unjust and flawed institution: the death penalty. He’s already won the support of seven area churches as well as the Davidson Town Board. All have called for a temporary moratorium on executions in North Carolina—due in large part to Baxter’s leadership. But Baxter, 30, says his toughest challenge hasn’t been winning over local ministers or politicians. It’s the students at Davidson.

“I think there is some apathy,” said Baxter. “I’d say with the vast majority of students, I haven’t been able to tell that they care.” Baxter cites two reasons: the heavy workload that seems to monopolize students’ attention, and—perhaps more importantly—the feeling of isolation that comes with living on a small college campus. “There’s so much emphasis on preparing you for the outside world that you sometimes forget you’re living in it,” he said. “People tend to forget they have responsibilities to the larger community.”

“My goal is to get Christians on the campus to see how their faith really matters on this.” Baxter is one of a growing number of pastors and community leaders fighting to halt executions until the government can prove that race and class aren’t factors in determining who gets the death penalty, and that defendants are provided with competent attorneys during their trials. But unlike most, Baxter has directed much of his efforts toward young people. Through weekly Bible studies that will be held on-campus for the first time this year, his work with the Bonner Scholars, AmeriCorps programs, and the annual mission trips to South America he leads college students on every summer, Baxter is hoping to reach more youth than ever and educate them on what he feels is a critical aspect of the Christian faith.

“In the Bible, we’re called to forgive our enemies,” he said. “That doesn’t mean we have to be friends with them. But it does mean we don’t kill them.” Baxter says leading the anti-death penalty movement in Davidson is one of his most important responsibilities as a minister. “For reasons I’m not quite sure, it’s taken on urgency with me,” he said. “I feel so passionate and alive and vital. It’s very life-giving. It sounds strange to say that, but it’s true.”

In May, Baxter led his own and seven other Davidson area churches in drafting a resolution calling for a temporary moratorium on the death penalty. The churches also hosted a presentation led by Charlotte attorney Jim Cooney, who has represented several men on Death Row. Among the 60or so people in attendance were each of Davidson’s five town commissioners, who in early July unanimously endorsed the ministers’ resolution and became the sixth N.C. municipality to call for a moratorium. Convincing the commissioners “wasn’t hard,” said Baxter. “They were all behind it. That was really encouraging.” On the eve of all N.C. executions since 1997, Baxter has led candlelight vigils on the Town Green in front of the public library. Drawing as few as six and as many as 50 people, the vigils are Baxter’s way of reminding people that as citizens, they have a stake in their government’s actions. “Whether you agree with the death penalty or not, it’s done in all our names,” he said. “I want people to realize that. I want people to know blood is on their hands in that way.”

Students struggle to cope with ant infestation
By Aaron Houck
Editor-in-chief

“Insects abound in this region.” Students do not need this warning from the Red Book to tell them that there are pests all around. Ants, especially, can be found across campus searching for their next meal. “They [the ants] are tiny! They congregate in the corners [of our rooms] and throw parties. They crawl all over your computer screen, so while you have to get rid of them,” complains Becca Nussbaum ’04 who lives in Basement Belk. Stan also encountered the tiny insects. “Last year, when I came back from Christmas break, I turned on my sink and a stream of ants shot out,” he recalled. “Now whenever I turn on the water, I let it run for a while before I put my toothbrush under it.”

The ants are more than an inconvenience at Little Library, however, where ants destroyed an expensive piece of electronic equipment. The library was holding a personal copy of a video tape on reserve for a class when the library staff discovered that the tape was infested with ants. “We took apart the video, sprayed it with bug spray, and put it in a box overnight,” described Jean Coates, Head of Library Circulation. “The next day, we thought it was clean, so we put it back on the shelf, and then someone checked it out.” This patron returned, however, to say that the video was stuck in the player. “When I went to move the machine, lots of ants and their eggs fell out,” shuddered Coates. “It was really gross.” The college returned the player to the manufacturer to be repaired, but according to Coates, some expressed concern as to whether “ants were covered by the warranty.”

“We try really hard to keep the ants under control,” explained Coates. “That is one of the reasons we do not allow food or drink in the library.” The Residence Life Office (RLO) is well aware of the problem and has taken measures to prevent the ants from taking over. “We have an ongoing contract with Carolina Pest Control,” said Kurt Holmes, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life. “I think of it as a regular payment like the heating bill or electricity bill.” According to Holmes, the problem of ants in the residence halls stems from the fact that the students are not aware of what draws the pests. Obviously, open food containers will attract them, but the insects seek out “really dirty laundry and toothpaste left in sinks.” To help students fight off the unwelcome visitors, RLO will provide the short-term solution of ant traps until Carolina Pest Control returns to campus. If requested, RLO can arrange to have a room sprayed for insects. Most of the sprays used are mild enough that students need not vacate their rooms. The college has used Carolina Pest Control to deal with ants, termites, hornets, rodents, and even bats. Holmes noted that, “the problem is that students don’t contact us. Rather than getting us to take care of the insects, they go out and buy spray which really doesn’t work well.” The problem with ants can be greatly reduced by “keeping a clean room and keeping food closed,” stated Holmes. “If you leave an open pizza box on the floor from Saturday night until Monday morning, you will have ants.”

Not all students suffer from an ant infestation, however. “We’ve been blessed on Fourth Watts,” said Joey Harris ’02, a hall counselor. “I think the ants are just too lazy to climb up four flights of stairs!”