THE DAVIDSONIAN FEATURES THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

Give the new Union a chance
By Evan ANDERSEN
Features Writer

Why are there rumors floating around about the Outpost closing down? Why take away something that has been so successful?
What is the college thinking? Unbeknownst to most students, the college has plans for something better. With the opening of
the new Knobloch Center in 2001, the services provided by the Outpost on Patterson Court will be moved to the
new Student Union. The Outpost will stop serving food on the Court at the end of the 2000-2001 academic year,
despite noted student concern. Union Director William Brown is confident the move will be positive for the campus.

“I’m convinced people will be delighted with the new Campus Center,” Brown said. “It’s difficult to compare something real with
something that is on paper or coming out of the ground.” Brown remains confident that the new services will be
accepted by the student body in time.

The original idea of the Outpost was rejected by most students because many believed it was an attempt by the
administration to infringe on Patterson Court life. It took hard work and a little adjustment time for the Outpost to
achieve its current level of student support. Union Board President Kirk Willingham believes that the new service may experience the
same period of adjustment.

“Davidson is reluctant to change,” he commented. Concern has been raised as to the location of the new union relative
to the Court. Many are apprehensive about a longer walk from all the weekend action. However, the truth of the
matter is that there will be more students who will benefit from the move. The new union is about as
far from the east side of the Court as the Outpost is now, and it is much closer to many
of the residence halls, including the senior apartments. This allows easier access for many of the Outpost’s customers who come
down for a study break during the week or to meet up with friends on the weekend. Will people be
more likely to travel off campus to find a

Two students’ opinions on the future of the Outpost

The Outpost needs to stay
By Juiz HWANG
Features Writer

“Save the Max!” The slogan was branded into my brain when I was twelve (thirteen, sixteen, eighteen, last week) as
I sat mesmerized in front of my TV every Saturday morning. I was just as heartbroken as Zack, Kelly, Lisa,
Slater, Jesse, and Screech when Max (the owner of The Max on “Saved By the Bell”), announced that he was
closing it down. I cheered on the gang of Bayside High as they held a telethon to raise enough money
to keep it open — a masterful plan! Tense minutes slipped by as they desperately solicited funds. Would they make
it? Breath held, I and the rest of teen America anxiously awaited the verdict. YES! They saved the Max! Satisfied
by the feeling of a great victory, I could turn off the TV until the following week.

These days, the words “Save the Outpost!” spring to my mind just as quickly as it prepares to move off
Patterson Court and into the soon-to-be Knobloch Center. My first experience with the Outpost was when I came to visit
my big brother. He promised me the best quesadillas I had ever had, and he wasn’t lying. (Up to that
point I had only ever had them at Friendly’s.) I vaguely remember people everywhere, moving tables and chairs to sit
with friends, eating, drinking that special Outpost water out of styrofoam cups, laughing, talking, and generally just having a good
time. I didn’t realize until I came here what anIntegral part of Davidson, the Outpost is. It has the special
ability to bring together members of every house on the Court alongside independents. To many people, it signals the end
of loud music and dancing, bringing closure to their nights. Partiers and non-partiers alike frequent the Outpost and are able
to mingle in a relaxed atmosphere. The Union (no matter its location) may serve a similar purpose during the week,
but it is a part of the up-the-hill world of academia from which we, as students, need to escape when
classes end on Friday afternoons. Furthermore, the Outpost has succeeded in keeping students from driving under the influence in order
to grab some late-night food. It just happens to be the magical distance people are willing to walk to from
virtually anywhere on campus. And if that simple fact puts too much focus on the Court, as some people feel,
isn’t it worth it? The Court is not going to stop being a central part of Davidson. It’s just a
matter of what people will do when the party’s over and they are hungry.

Will the new Union be the place to eat when the Outpost is no longer a place for them to
crash? Unlikely, says Willingham. “As long as they can use a Cat Card, [the new union] will be the place
to go.” The menu at the new Union Café will be expanded to take into account student demands, which undoubtedly
will contain late-night appetite-friendly items. People create a set daily pattern which includes places they go in between classes and
during breaks. The new union will simply take a new place in the daily plans of students. Instead of in
between classes, people may go there in the late afternoon when the many other services can be taken advantage of.
The Campus Center will eventually become ingrained in people’s weekend plans, much like the Outpost did years ago. When you
form your opinion about the imminent changes, don’t despair at the idea of losing a place as beloved as the
Outpost. Instead, think about the positive aspects of the new. If we embrace the new café like we did the
Outpost, it will be no time at all before it achieves the same level of character and personality.

I am not opposed to the idea of the new Union, but while it is being built for the students,
the Outpost has been created and shaped by the students. From the crazy mural that adorns the walls (painted by
a former Davidson student) to the students making the food, answering the phone, calling out numbers over the microphone, delivering
the food, and working the register to Papa D., who is more a brother of Sig Ep than a college
employee, the Outpost boasts a uniqueness that moving will destroy. Although the Outpost often is associated with court life, during
the week it also serves as a good study break, the home of Jumpin’ Java, a place where OLAS sponsors
events like Latin dancing lessons, where you can watch a big game on the big screen, play a good game
of Stratego, or even study. The Union Outpost is probably the closest I’ll ever come to having a Max. It
seems grossly unfair that those who regard the one place to get a pepperoni pizza bagel at 2 am as
an important part of Davidson life may never get the chance to save it. Like so many other events at
Davidson, such as the CATSlink, the news of the Outpost’s fate has slowly but surely been making its way around
campus by word of mouth. So while it may seem like people don’t care, the truth is that people are
just starting to realize what’s going on.
