THE DAVIDSONIAN News Commentary THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

RUSSIA TODAY: On Yeltsin and Chechnya

ZHENYA ARUTYUNYAN Staff Writer

“I am sorry,” was one of the phrases that Boris Yeltsin used during his resignation speech on the bright morning of December 31, 1999. I saw it with my family as well as a few neighbors who had rushed over to hear Yeltsin speak (primarily because we had doubts for the last few years that he was capable of speaking). His resignation was a great New Year's gift to me and many of my countrymen. Why? Well, perhaps because during the last few years of his presidency (read: reign), he was far from the man that we all admired for defending democracy from the tanks near the Russian White House. He started and lost a miserable and painful war in Chechnya in 1994-96. Corruption reached unprecedented heights. Pride in our country, its history, and its achievements was undermined, as many Russians believe, by the vengeful West, while our former president was as helpless in doing anything about it as he was in reviving Russia’s economy or stopping NATO’s encroachment on Russia. Yeltsin’s family became involved in a number of scandals, primarily through his daughter’s influence on the actions of her sickly father and, thereby, the Russian government. Yeltsin lost the respect and faith of the Russian citizens long ago, but what choice did we have in the last presidential elections? Communists? We chose the lesser of the two evils. My opinion about Yeltsin's resignation is that he got out of the political stage on time and too easily. Despite his early achievements, he led the country into disgrace and an economic and political mess; at least many common Russians think so. I even heard comments that he should be put on trial. I am not sure whether he deserves trial, but I am positive that most of his cabinet and advisers do. But all that is left behind in 1999. Now for 2000. In the face of Ded Moroz (Russian Santa) we get Vladimir Putin. What kind of leadership can he provide Russia with in the three months until the March presidential elections? It is hard to say. Until his appointment as Prime Minister, he was completely unknown to most Russians. All we knew about him was that he headed FSB (successor to the KGB). The first impressions of his presidency were positive. Think about it: he’s young, can speak (literally), and seems to have a strong hand on the army and the government; a perfect autocratic leader. As usual, he promises to fight corruption, fix our economy, and defeat the ‘terrorists’ in Chechnya. Many believe him. At least he did not promise that his rule would be painless. I remember one phrase particularly well. Putin warned that many would not like his measures, but if he considers them necessary for the future well-being of Russia and its citizens, he will implement them. He started the year with changes in the cabinet, establishment of new offices, increases in taxes, and travel to various gubernii (regions). Now what about Chechnya? In my opinion, Yeltsin’s resignation makes no difference to the campaign in Chechnya. Why?Because Putin was the mastermind behind the planning and implementation of the most recent campaign that started out so well for the Russian army and won initial praise and domestic political support for Yeltsin first, and finally for Putin himself. Interestingly, most Russians did not oppose the second campaign in Chechnya. The reasons for most people can be attributed primarily to the bombings in Moscow and other Russian cities. For scholars and political scientists, there are other reasons. One of them is a simple formula—if we let Chechnya go, others may want to. There are the 150-odd nationalities that exist throughout Russia. Chechnya is one of the vital border territories in the Caucasus. Its independent status would immediately invite neighboring Islamic fundamentalist groups from Afghanistan, which would threaten Russian security. It would also threaten the security of the neighboring republics like Ingushetia or Dagestan, which are also predominantly Muslim, but much more moderate than the Chechen terrorist groups. Russians, including myself, do not believe that all Chechens are terrorists, but the activities of the groups that caused the bombings were certainly those of terrorists and Russia has a right to fight against them. In the process of the campaign in Chechnya, civilian deaths were inevitable. (If anyone thinks that the NATO bombings of Yugoslavia caused no civilian casualties, they may check any non-U.S. newspaper for appropriate information). Perhaps, Russian troops could have reduced them to a minimum, but this second campaign in Chechnya is justified. Chechnya is and has been part of Russia since the 19th century. It has an important strategic location in the Caucasus. What has been started has to be finished. A reaffirmation of the Russian military might finish the conflict. The groups fighting the Russian troops in Chechnya are terrorist Islamic fundamentalists sponsored and trained by the infamous Osama Bin Laden who currently resides in Afghanistan. If any country, including the U.S., interferes in Chechnya, it will create unpleasant political implications for the country. What the Western powers can and should do is to help the refugees and provide humanitarian relief in the refugee camps, rather than interfere in the domestic affairs of Russia and support the claims of a few terrorist groups acting on behalf of the people. In conclusion, I would say, “Thank You Boris” for finally taking leave. You did what you did, and as Russians say, “God will be your judge!” Putin is the new president for at least 3 months with high chances of winning the March elections. However, knowing the unpredictable and contradictory nature of Russian politics, I won’t make a prediction. The operation in Chechnya will continue until it is completely destroyed by Russian bombings or Russia runs out of money or some foreign power interferes (although the latter is highly unlikely). Finally, I would not give up on Russia. We, Russians, have a history of survival in the harshest climatic, political, and economic conditions. So we’ll wait and see. Democracy and a stable economy (do not read: capitalism) cannot be established in a historically unrealistic number of years. It will take about 10-20 years for us to get there.

The author is a senior history major from Moscow, Russia.