By Jimmy Burrorp
Staff Writer

Davidson lacrosse roared out the gate in the second half to crush the University of California 13-8 before a home crowd last Thursday. The Wildcats went into the half behind 5-4, but came out after halftime and applied the smackdown to the hapless Golden Bears. Stephanie Hunter scored two of the Wildcats’ four unanswered points while sophomore Sarah Otto and Lauren Kenchington each added one to complete the explosion. The Golden Bears managed to squeak a score past the defense and goalie Lisa Benjamin to give the Golden Bears six points. Molly Cherington and Sarah Otto then added two more goals to extend Davidson’s lead to ten to six. Then Otto and Hunter scored again, giving Davidson a twelve to six lead. The Bears again managed to get through the tough Davidson defense and score twice, closing the lead to twelve to eight. Kenchington’s final goal iced the victory and marked her 100th career point. She is only the fourth player in Wildcats history to reach that milestone and is only a junior.

Davidson lacrosse falls to Richmond 12-8
By Derek Smith
Davidson S.I.D.

RICHMOND, VA - Sarah Otto registered a hat-trick for the second straight game, but it wasn’t enough as the Richmond Spiders beat the Davidson Wildcats 12-8 in non-conference women’s lacrosse action on Sunday afternoon at President’s Field. The teams traded goals the first 13 minutes of play. With the score knotted at 2-2, Davidson pulled ahead on a goal by junior Stephanie Hunter with 16:07 remaining in the first half. Richmond countered with three straight goals to end the half to take a 5-3 lead at intermission. Davidson pulled to within one twice in the second stanza behind goals from sophomores Molly Cherington and Otto. Otto’s third goal of the game at the 17:56 mark pulled the Wildcats to within one, 6-5. Richmond responded with a barrage of goals during a 3:29 run. Kristy Gallagher scored one and assisted on another during Richmond’s run. Davidson would pull to within three, 9-6, on a Lauren Kenchington goal at the 10:57 mark before Richmond would again quiet any thoughts of a Davidson comeback. Two Spiders goals 14 seconds apart with just over seven minutes to play helped to seal the Richmond win. Lacy Pica, off the assist from Brandolini, gave Richmond the 10-6 advantage with 7:15 to play. Richmond won the ensuing draw and 14 seconds later, Tracy Ransome found the back of the net. An Alexis Brandolini goal with 0:01 remaining in the game was the difference as Richmond grabbed the 12-8 win. The Wildcats (3-5) hit the road once again this coming weekend with a pair of games in the Buckeye State. Davidson plays at Ohio State on April 8 and at Ohio University on April 9.

Holtz says South Carolina needs a new fight song
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — South Carolina coach Lou Holtz says he’s learned the fight songs at the other nine schools where he’s coached, but the Gamecocks’ tune doesn’t make sense and for the first time he’s not making his players learn it. Then again, a team thatwent 0-11 last year—Holtz’s first here—and is in the midst of a 21-game losing streak that is the longest among Division I teams. He hasn’t had much use for one. That, more than anything, is probably why the team’s song has caught on, says William Studwell, who has written one book on college fight songs and has another on the way to the presses. “If they had had great football teams for many years, maybe it would be more beloved,” Studwell said. A good fight song doesn’t have to have good lyrics; many schools have abandoned the words and just play the tune, he said. “A good fight song has to incite emotions in the fans and the team,” Studwell said, citing “The Victors” of the University of Michigan, “Notre Dame Victory March” and “On Wisconsin” as three of the best. “Good words help, but you have to have a good tune.”

Still, Holtz said Wednesday, “I would like to have something that would bind us together, something you could learn and sing, if you ever win a game.” So, he told The (Columbia) State, he’s thinking of writing one himself. Holtz was unavailable for further comment Thursday, athletics spokesman Kerry Tharp said. Holtz told the newspaper he visited dormitories and fraternities this week to drum up support for the football team and couldn’t find anyone who knew the fight song. “Tell me what song anybody can sing here other than the alma mater,” Holtz said. “The players don’t know it. I don’t know it. I’ve tried.”

The issue was brought up on Holtz’s Internet site when someone complained about the song and Holtz agreed. The coach said he even asked a friend last year to come up with a new song, but it was just as confusing as the present song. Holtz wrote a fight song once before, in 1976 while coaching the NFL’s New York Jets. “Maybe in my spare time, I’ll write the words to one,” he said. Holtz’s Internet site also has a contest going to come up with a new song. South Carolina’s current fight song was introduced by former coach Paul Dietzel in November 1968. It is sung to the melody of “Step to the Rear” from the musical “How Now, Dow Jones.” Changing the song would not be such a bad idea, said broadcaster Charlie McAlexander, the radio voice of the Gamecocks for the past five years. “Change is good sometimes,” he said. “If we can come up with something good and snappy, I see nothing wrong with that.”

BASEBALL
4/6 Winthrop 3:00 p.m.
4/8 @Appalachian State* 12:00 p.m.
4/9 @Appalachian State 1:00 p.m.

LACROSSE
4/8 @Ohio State 1:00 p.m.
4/9 @University of Ohio 1:00 p.m.

Men’s TENNIS
4/9 @Furman 1:30 p.m.

TRACK & FIELD
4/7-4/8 Duke Invitational**

Women’s TENNIS
4/8 @East Tennessee State 10:00 a.m.
4/11 Furman 3:00 p.m.

Boldface indicates home game
Italics indicate Southern Conference games
*doublerheader starts at 12:00 p.m.
**at Wallace Wade Stadium, Durham, N.C.

INSIDE...
Soccer’s Ginny Dye has a busy weekend pg. 11
Wildcat tennis wins more national honors pg. 11
2000 Wildcat baseball marked improvement since last season pg. 10
ETSU takes home baseball weekend series from Wildcats pg. 10