Wenger awareness rally, OXFAM dinner kick off week of hunger issue events

By JT Toventino
News Editor

The booths all had one message — hunger awareness. The Hunger Awareness Rally, sponsored by CROP, was held last Friday
afternoon with the purpose of exposing the students to the problem of hunger and poverty here at home and abroad.
Chris Cho ‘01, along with Carrie Arthur ‘01, organized the three-hour event held in front of the Union. Arthur wanted
to “build a sense of community” through the rally, making “people more aware of how hunger and poverty pervade all
issues, and affect everyone directly and indirectly.” Cho agrees and added, “students are not very aware [of the hunger problem]
because of the way we were brought up. We don’t have that much exposure [to the problem].”

The problem lies in that many students do not understand the scope of hunger and poverty, especially the breadth of
the problem not only on an international scale but here in the United States. According to a report released by
the Clinton Administration, nearly 10% of American households are at risk of going hungry. This statistic “just blew me away,”
commented Cho. “We are the wealthiest nation in the world, but we have 10% of the households going hungry.” Arthur
pointed out that every 3.6 seconds, someone dies from hunger or hunger-related causes. At the same time, Arthur wanted to
clarify the purpose of the rally: “We want people to care, and to think about how their actions affect other
people. It’s not to make people feel guilty, but to make people aware and concerned.” Cho added, “to get the
complete story, people need to know somebody who is poor, and need to be involved in dialogue, and very few
people have done that. Once someone knows someone who is hungry and knows what they are struggling with, you realize
that things need to be fair.”

Student Support

“I would say that everyone has been supportive,” said Arthur. She believed that there was a lot of support from
other organizations in Davidson. Eight organizations joined in the hunger rally with CROP, including DIA, the Environmental Action Coalition, and
the Young Democrats. The organizations contributed to a different angle for the hunger cause. The EAC presented the need for
hunger awareness from an environmental perspective. EAC noted that “if Americans eat 10% less meat, the land and water energy
that would be freed can be used to feed 100 million people.” Sean Gantt ‘03, committee head for Animal Rights,
pointed out that “the less meat we eat, the more land is going to be used to feed other people.”
Marie Sharp ‘01 agreed with Gantt, saying, “meat is very wasteful and very inefficient. We don’t use our resources efficiently.
We have so many people around the world [because] we are very wasteful. We are not very careful with our
resources.” Hannah Brown ‘02, co-president of the Young Democrats, said that her organization “thinks that it is an important issue
that needs to be addressed in the country. Democrats try to lower the poverty line, and help those in need
through welfare, food stamps, and medical care.” She emphasized that those who support such issues should voice their support through
voting. Overall, however, Arthur believed that there was “a fair showing, but there were not as many people as we
would like.” However, she emphasized that every person that comes and listens to the cause is important.

The Drive to Equalize

Cho began her quest to curb hunger just recently. It wasn’t until her experience in Jerusalem when she became an
advocate for hunger and poverty awareness. Cho did service work in a poor suburb in Jerusalem, teaching art to kids
in the local community. She developed several art projects to teach the kids. “They are supposed to be really loud
and rambunctious, but they seemed really tired and it seemed like they were too tired to enjoy anything.” At first,
Cho thought that the lack of enthusiasm was because of her “boring” projects. She talked with the director of the
program about her observations about the tired children. “She told me that you have to understand that most of these
families are immigrant families and they have come with nothing and they are not eating enough.” This realization affected Cho
deeply. She was not expecting hunger or any problems such as hunger “because Israel is a first world country.” The
experience proved to be a turning point in Cho’s life. It gave her a sense that she needed to work
for hunger and poverty. “I needed to start some poverty advocacy group.” Since her return from Jerusalem, Cho has invested
much of her energy in promoting hunger and poverty awareness, with the help of Arthur. Now co-coordinator of CROP, Cho
hopes to bring her message of hunger awareness and poverty awareness to the college community at Davidson. In terms of
acting on her newfound mission, Cho believes that a grassroots movement such as that which she is a part of
is important. “From the grassroots levels, (the cause) balloons into something that happens nationally, and that balloons into something globally.
That’s why I had the rally.” She believes that the fair on Friday will have the greatest impact on Davidson
students.

Hunger Awareness Week

The Hunger Awareness Rally was the kickoff event for Hunger Awareness Week, a seven-day event that will end Thursday. Dr.
Maiz-Pena addresses the OXFAM dinner.Saturday, they participated in the Gleaning Network, packaging potatoes that have been salvaged for poor and
hungry families. “They will take vegetables to food pantries in the area,” according to Arthur. On Sunday, David Beckmann, President
of Bread of the World, spoke on hunger and on Jubilee 2000, a movement to forgive the debts of poor
nations. The OXFAM Dinner was held this past Monday in Vail Commons. The dinner simulated the true distribution of food
in the world, to drive home the impact of what it is like to live in poverty and hunger. Arthur
said that “142 people signed up for the dinner, but I would be thrilled if just fifty people signed up.”
Her main concern is that she reaches out to some people. Tuesday night was the homeless panel discussion, where homeless
persons told their stories about being homeless and what life is like dealing with hunger issues personally. Hunger Awareness Week
ends this Thursday. The Commons Lunch Fast is today, where students can choose to skip any meal at the dining
hall, donating the value of the meal to Loaves and Fishes. The final event will be the Letter Writing Marathon
on Thursday.

Erin Berry Campaign, from page 1

Vagt noted that if the school wants to sustain or even increase its level of diversity, Davidson needs greater financial
flexibility. “Diversity,” said Vagt, “must be more than race, gender, culture, or religion; it must be socioeconomic as well.” As
such, the college admits the need for greater funding in this area. Second, Davidson hopes to increase the percentage of
students receiving need-based financial aid. Roughly speaking, about a third of current Davidson students receive need-based aid, a level that
has remained constant over the past fifty years. Administrators want to raise this fraction to over forty percent. This desire
is in part a reaction to the practices of schools in Davidson’s peer group, which, according to Vagt, on average
give aid to about forty percent of their students. In particular, increasing the endowed portion of financial assistance will enable
the college to be more aggressive in targeting public high schools. According to Cable, Davidson is fighting the reputation as
a school for rich kids. “Students are making assumptions about us, and if we don’t speak to those assumptions, then
we are missing out on students who could contribute to Davidson.” Perhaps more importantly, both administrators and donors feel that
a Davidson education should be available to all capable students, regardless of financial considerations. Noted Stevenson-McNeely, “[Increasing our endowed financial
aid] will ensure that we are getting the most qualified students, regardless of background. Personally, I think it’s the right
thing to do.” Vagt concurred, “Alumni say to me, ‘My Davidson education was the best thing that has ever happened
to me, and I want anyone to be able to have that experience.’” As evidence of this willingness to give,
the school already has commitments totaling more than $100 million. Third, Davidson intends to cap the debt of graduating students
at ten percent of the cost of education. Presently, the financial aid office keeps the maximum portion of its proposed
aid packages consisting of loans at or below $5,500 a year. In the future, this figure will decrease to roughly
$3,000 a year. As Cable explained, “We don’t want students to feel that they have to have a top-paying job
coming out of college to pay off their loans. If they want to become a missionary in sub-Saharan Africa, they
should be able to pursue their interests.” Fourth, the college wants to increase the amount of merit-based aid as well.
The expansion of the Belk Scholars program is an important first step towards this goal. Stevenson-McNeely demonstrated that this will
increase the total amount of aid available to all students. “Proportionally, the number of students receiving a Belk Scholarship who
are ‘needy’ should be comparable to that of the general student body. If they receive a merit scholarship, then that
frees up other funds [for need-based assistance].”

Faculty Support and Academic Facilities

Two other important aspects of this campaign are increases in faculty compensation and improvements in academic facilities. Approximately $25 million
of the drive will be used to shore up faculty resources. Noted Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of
the Faculty Clark Ross, “A cornerstone of this campaign is continuing to be able to attract and retain the best
faculty and to offer competitive compensation.” Davidson hopes to increase the number of named professorships as a way to honor
truly exemplary scholars, asserted Ross. In addition, the school hopes to be able to offer entry-level salaries comparable to those
of peer institutions. Academics will also benefit from improvements in several key buildings. The new performance hall adjacent to the
Knobloch Campus Center is the first in a series of planned structural projects. Grey Building, currently containing the student union,
will be converted into the new home for the music department. Then the college will turn its attention to the
renovation of Chambers. Under this plan, the school will refurbish existing offices and classrooms and add new ones.

High Hopes

Despite the broad scope of the capital campaign, expectations of success are great. Vagt emphasized that Davidson has already produced
some results on this front. “Responsiveness [from donors] has been incredible,” he remarked. Cable stressed that these goals are entirely
within reach. “These are realizable hopes,” she confirmed. Moreover, the chance to offer greater opportunities to students is a big
part of this institution. “[This campaign] builds on what is best about Davidson.”
