10 “This building is going to transform the campus in ways that we can't imagine.” — Tom Shandley

Knobloch, from page 1.

The Davidsonian and Libertas to United Community Action and WALT, will call the 4th floor of the building home. Private
office space is modest—instead, organizations' activities will sprawl beyond their own four walls into the vast fourth-floor common area, complete
with amenities ranging from computer terminals and conference tables to a fireplace.

“The student organization office areas are really going to work well,” says Brown. “We’re going to see people working together
in ways that are natural and easy.” Gone will be the tangled web of isolated offices that has hampered activity
in the Grey Building. Instead, the new layout promises to foster unprecedented interaction amongst various organizations.

“It’s going to be much better for the campus overall,” promises Willingham. “Nowadays, you need to have a map to
find organization offices. In Knobloch, you’ll be able to see where people are and see where they’re working. Students will
know who to turn to.”

A gathering place.

The Campus Center’s five stories will host a vast array of facilities—an expansive Union Café, outdoor patios and an amphitheater,
an expansive bookstore, numerous lounges and gathering areas, and a basement fitness center. “The fitness center downstairs will be three
times the size of what Baker has,” says Dean Shandley. The workout area will have music, televisions, locker rooms, and
a view of the center’s 25-foot climbing wall. And in the third-floor Union Café, tables will be spread throughout the
third-floor lobby area, rather than concentrated in a single dining room.

“The café and the open tables will be a kind of a piazza,” explains Shandley. “You’ll come out and eat
right out in the middle of everything. And if you want a quieter place to eat with couches and a
living-room atmosphere, there will be a section like that around the fireplace.”

Athletics.

Another major benefit of the campus center will be its proximity to the fields of athletic competition. Immediately adjacent to
Richardson Stadium and just a short trot from Belk Arena, the new building offers myriad possibilities for pre- and post-game
gatherings.

“We're going to have some great program opportunities in conjunction with football games, soccer games, track meets, even basketball games,”
says Willingham. “Right after the games, we’re going to have a ton of people right outside the new Campus Center—and
we need to get those people in there hanging out and participating.”

“When I go to a soccer game now,” says Brown, “I gaze down at Johnston and think, ‘This is just
going to be terrific.’ There are going to be so many opportunities.” Athletes and coaches are hoping that the new
Campus Center will serve as a rallying station for Wildcat fans.

“Imagine sitting out on the deck overlooking the track on a sunny day,” Shandley envisages. “On the day of a
football or soccer game, or a track meet, the crowd flowing from Richardson Stadium to the Campus Center will be
so natural.” This crowd-flow also promises to bring dramatic revenue increases to the campus.bookstore. The bookstore will span 5,225 square
feet, with large windows overlooking the lower corridor.

Tuesday, April 20, 2000

“I frankly think it will be one of the very best unions on a small campus in the country.” —William
Brown

Performing Arts Center. But the crowning gem of this new campus center will be the state-of-the-art performance hall on the
Baker side of the building. “It’s going to be heavily scheduled,” expects Brown, “because it’s going to be a really
exciting space.” The performance hall should have a maximum seating capacity of close to 600, providing a substantial but intimate
audience for campus events, productions, and programs. And the flexibility provided by the two balconies will allow event staff to
effectively accommodate large or small audiences.

“People will really be able to see—the sight-lines will be terrific,” Brown says. “We'll have two balconies, and it’s not
a deep auditorium at all so every seat will be awfully near the stage. There won’t be a bad seat
in the house.” The theater department expects to produce their two major annual shows in the new hall, but they
will be joined by literally dozens of campus events. The auditorium can facilitate lectures, concerts, and even Broadway-caliber productions. “We
even think we can look forward to some Broadway shows coming on campus in that facility,” Dean Shandley says.

The process. Brown and Joe Gardner of the Theater Department first dreamt of such a structure back in 1985—when the
two hoped to unite a student union building with a state-of-the-art auditorium. “There have been various planning committees through the
years,” says Brown. Countless individuals have contributed to the planning and groundwork for this new union—ranging from students, faculty, professors,
administrators, and alumni, to staff. Brown credits Dean Tom Shandley with injecting astounding vigor into the effort. Similarly, Brown notes,
President Vagt embarked on a dramatic fundraising effort to finance the project. Many of those funds came directly from Carl
& Emily Knobloch and their family, for whom the building will be named.

By no means absent from this process has been William Brown, himself. A 1970 Davidson graduate, Brown has served as
Director of Student Activities since 1983 and played an integral role in the planning and execution of this project. “This
has been at least 15 years in the making,” says Shandley. “A lot of people have worked very, very hard—a
lot of students, a lot of faculty. It has been a community effort for well over a decade.”

Union board. Under the direction of President Kirk Willingham—Class of 2001—the Union Board is gearing up for the vast new
opportunities that the new center will afford. “It’s kind of intimidating I guess,” concedes Willingham. “We've got so many expectations.”
But for the time being, says the junior, the board is focusing on “sending the old union out with a
bang.”

“We want to have some great programs this spring and even better ones in the fall,” he says. “We'll hope
to keep building momentum that will carry over to the new building.”

Some quotations for this article were made available from The Davidson Journal.
