Sports Editor

Despite a lackluster first-half offensive performance, the Davidson Wildcats improved to a record 8-0 on the season. With only 4:50
remaining in the game, sophomore Daniel Hanks kicked a 21-yard field goal to give the Wildcats a 20-17 victory over
the Centre Colonels, extending their winning streak to fifteen straight games.

The first half showcased a series of punts as neither team could mount any sort of offensive attack. By halftime,
they had exchanged field goals, notching the score at 3-3. Hanks had an opportunity to give the Cats the lead
in the closing seconds of the second quarter, but his 27-yard field goal attempt hit the left upright as time
expired.

At the start of the third quarter, Centre took an early lead, capitalizing on a fumbled punt return by Kevin
Strange. A play later, Centre quarterback Drew Mildren put the Colonels ahead as he found Chuck Beard for a 34-yard
touchdown. The momentum had appeared to shift to Centre, but freshman Randall Hardy ensured that it was short-lived. On the
ensuing kick-off, Hardy returned the ball 56 yards, giving the Cats excellent field position. The next three plays, the score
at 10-10.

The Wildcats then capitalized on a Centre turnover to score their second touchdown of the game. Sophomore Graham Elmore intercepted
Mildren on the Colonel 34-yard line, resulting in a touchdown pass from Nichols to senior fullback Brian Fork. Fans hoping
that Centre would fold were sorely disappointed. On the next possession, Centre converted a third-and-eight, setting up a 2-yard quarterback
sneak, tying the game once again.

It looked as if the Cats might lose their first game of the season, as the pesky Colonels refused to
back down, but sophomore quarterback Paul Nichols took control just in time. On the next drive, Nichols connected with senior
wide receiver Corey Crawford on a third and five for a gain of thirteen yards. On the next play, Nichols
hit Crawford again on a 39-yard bomb, setting up Hanks’ winning field goal. The Colonels still had a chance for
the upset as they got the ball back with 1:08 to go, but Mildren was picked off by sophomore safety
Elmore for the second time.

With the win, the Wildcats remained tied with Robert Morris for the longest win streak in the nation. Davidson will
go for a school record of nine wins in a season next week at Austin Peay.

Bo knows sacks: Henderson anchors Wildcat defense

By Matt Garfield
News Editor

Bo Henderson doesn’t want to see his name in the headlines. He won't tell you how much he bench presses
in the weight room or how it feels to be the all-time sack leader at Davidson. His modesty is almost
contagious.

But know this about the senior linebacker and captain of Davidson’s 8-0 football team: When he steps onto the field
on Saturday afternoons, the Mr. Nice Guy act disappears. The Charlotte native, who didn’t begin playing football until his senior
year at Garinger High, leads the Wildcats with 59 tackles and 7.5 sacks, four of which came against San Diego
on Oct. 15, breaking the record for both career (23) and single-game sacks. But you’d never hear any of that
from Henderson because he doesn’t keep track of statistics. And although he won’t admit it, his play is a big
part of the reason Davidson is tied for the longest win streak in the nation with 15.

On this night, the 6-foot, 225-pound Henderson sits on a couch in the Union, his Wildcat football jacket concealing biceps
the size of most people’s thighs. The captain speaks softly about life on and off the field. “One of the
great things about the team is you can’t really pinpoint one player,” he says. “We have great athletes on both
sides of the ball.”

Henderson’s soft-spoken demeanor is the opposite of his approach to football. He’s involved in just about every tackle in some
way or another, either making the initial hit or helping one of his teammates finish the job. Each of his
sacks, Henderson says, wouldn’t have been possible without his “brother,” senior defensive end Andre Carelock. “He’s helped me so much,”
said Henderson, citing Carelock’s advice about reading blocks and other football nuances. “We push each other. He’s been a real
role model for me.”

If you didn’t know better, it would be easy to think the two really were brothers. “A lot of people
say we look alike,” Henderson said. “I was in a club in Charlotte, and someone came up to me and
said ‘Hey Andre.’”the real competition begins. Henderson says he’s got the lead right now. He grudgingly admits he can bench
450 pounds, Carelock 405. Henderson is also quick to downplay Davidson’s 8-0 record. “Coach Susan says each week, ‘Let’s go
1-0. If at the end of the season we won all those 1-0 battles, then it’s great.’” Off the field,
Henderson is a biology major who hopes to enter the field of epidemiology, the study of diseases. This past summer,
he and senior Shaun Tyrance started a mentoring program with professor Rudy Jackson aimed at reaching out to area at-risk
youth. With only two games left in the season, Henderson is trying to enjoy his last weeks as a college
football player. “Even though we don’t have playoffs or a bowl game, the mere act of doing what it takes
to succeed on the field is a life lesson. It’s a reflection of who I am.”

Men’s soccer season concludes in SoCon semi-finals
By ANDY LANOHA Staff Writer

The Davidson Men’s soccer season came to a dramatic close this Saturday when the Wildcats lost a 4-3 overtime battle
to Appalachian State in the Southern Conference semi-finals. This game ended Davidson’s most successful season in over four years as
they finished 12-7-1 overall, with a 7-3 record in conference play.

The game ended abruptly with only 2:31 left in the first overtime period when the Mountaineers’ Chris Weddle took advantage
of a broken play in the back and slipped the ball into the net. Appalachian’s fourth goal ended an amazing
comeback for the Cats. Though Davidson opened the game powerfully, jumping out to a quick 1-0 lead, Appalachian State soon
roared back. Scoring two goals in less than two minutes and eventually extending their lead to 3-1 early in the
second half, Appalachian appeared to have the game in hand. But, Davidson knew better.

“Even at 3-1, we knew we could come back,” said Senior Co-Captain Dave Buehler. “We had dug ourselves a hole,
but we were definitely outplaying them.” Once Davidson launched their comeback, it was a new game. Junior Erik Ozimek scored
Davidson’s second goal in the 71st minute, taking a pass from junior Derek Kilburn and confidently finishing it. With only
seven minutes left to play, David Buehler’s diving header provided the clutch goal that tied the game and sent the
‘Cats into overtime. Ozimek started the play with a free kick from almost 40 yards out, which was placed perfectly
onto Buehler’s head.

The overtime period seemed to be more of the same for Davidson. The Cats came out strong and created chances
to win. But, unfortunately for the Cats, Lady Luck was with Appalachian. Though the Cats owned the last 60 minutes
of play, Appalachian made good on their real chance of the overtime period and ended the Cats' comeback and season.

“We played quality soccer and created a lot of chances. Once we started knocking the ball around in the second
half, we killed them,” commented senior co-captain Dane Erickson. But, “trouble defending set plays and a lot of misfortune,” according
to Erickson, eventually proved too much for Davidson.

The semi-final loss followed a strong showing for the Cats in the opening round. The Cats downed the VMI Keydets
3-1 in the conference quarterfinals. Davidson started the game sluggish and gave itself a bit of a scare, falling behind
1-0 in the 21st minute of the match. Senior Ikenna Myers made sure his season wouldn’t end so soon, however,
when he scored the tying goal at the 41:29 mark. Just 45 seconds after entering the match, Myers raced past
the defense to finish a pass from junior Jon Tetirick.

“Ikenna came off the bench and gave us a real spark,” said Erickson. “His goal was rejuvenating. We were confident,
then, that we would finish the game.” Erickson, himself, provided the game-winner just two minutes into the second half. Receiving
a ball off of Norbet’s foot, Erickson buried the ball, providing Davidson with a lead that would remain unchallenged. Jon
Tetirick sealed the game at 3-1 in the 87th minute off another assist from Norbet.

Despite a strong record and many successes this season, Davidson is understandably disappointed. “We controlled our chances late in the
season—whether we could have earned an at-large bid or won the [conference] tournament—but we let ‘em both slip away,” commented
Senior Bryan Garrett. The Cats may have fallen short of their goal to make the NCAA tournament, but they can
still hold their heads high. Playing their comfortable underdog role, the Cats rose to many challenges throughout the year. They
finished second overall in the conference, at one point managed a six-game winning streak, and battled hard until the last.
For the underclassmen, there is always next year, but for the seniors, there is much to be proud of.
