“Tate Davies
Wednesday,
August 30, 2000

Wildcat volleyball readies for title defense

By MIKE ANDERSON
Sports Writer

For the Wildcat volleyball team, last season’s magical campaign will prove difficult to forget.

But the key to success this fall, say players and coaches alike, will be the ability to do just that: Forget.

One year after soaring to national prominence with a 31-4 record (including a flawless 20-0 mark in Southern Conference play), the Wildcats take to the hardwood this fall with the highest of expectations.

With a host of talent returning, Davidson currently boasts a #48 ranking in the national RPI as well as a top rating in the Southern Conference pre-season coach’s poll.

Such pre-season hype could easily turn the Friendly Confines of Belk Arena into a veritable pressure-cooker. Yet the Wildcats seem to be taking it all in stride.

“Last year was a great year, but we have to remember that this is a completely different season,” says senior Brooke Bentley. “We have to take things one at a time. Comparing this season to last season isn’t smart for us; things are so different.”

Fellow senior Mara Mordini echoed the sentiments. “We’re the team to beat, so everyone is expecting a lot out of us. But after some discussion, we’ve decided that we really need to take it slow and not jump out ahead of ourselves. The future and the past are irrelevant right now.”

The Schedule

Davidson’s rise in national prominence has contributed to one of the most challenging schedules in program history.

In the month of September alone, the Wildcats will take on three of the top four teams in the ACC—Georgia Tech, Clemson, and Wake Forest.

“I’m very excited about our schedule,” says first-year head coach Tami Darwin. “I know this team would rather play tougher opponents and be challenged than play a weaker schedule.”

After a star-studded string of non-conference games to open the season, the Wildcats will take to the task of defending their Southern Conference title on September 12 against Wofford.

Though Davidson was the favorite to claim the conference crown, three other programs earned first-place votes in the coaches’ poll: Chattanooga, Furman, and East Tennessee State.

“Chattanooga and Western Carolina are always a challenge,” says junior setter Erica Schwartz. “But I honestly see Furman being a tough team this year; they improved so much at the end of last season.”

Personnel

Davidson enters the fall’s competition with a dynamic thirteen-player squad full of experience, athleticism, and court sense.

“This team is loaded with talent,” says Darwin. “Not only are the girls very athletic, but they all have a solid knowledge of the game. And they just love playing together. That’s my favorite thing about this team: They love the game.”

The Wildcats will return five of their six starters this fall, including three pre-season all-conference selections: setter Erica Schwartz and outside hitters Brooke Bentley and Mara Mordini.

Mordini—last season’s SoCon Player of the Year and tournament MVP—paced the 1999 Wildcats with 454 kills, 481 digs, and 42 service aces.

Bentley, a talented and unshakably consistent athlete, netted an impressive 3.64 digs and 2.65 kills per game last season.

And Schwartz, who ascended to the starting lineup when senior Ginny Quis went down with an ankle injury, quickly emerged as one of the conference’s most prolific setters. Despite starting just over half of last season’s games, Schwartz finished fourth in the conference in assists during the regular season and set a Southern Conference Tournament record with 84 assists.

Seniors Katherine Lorenz and Lauren Schultz will complement Mordini and Bentley with vast experience and leadership—Lorenz led all Wildcats in games played last season.

The Rookies

Two new freshmen join the Wildcat squad this fall—setter Nicole Tonelli and middle blocker Tisha Chapman.

Tonelli, a highly touted setter from New Lenox, Ill., will play understudy to Schwartz this season and figures to play a major role in the Wildcats’ future.

“Nicole has come from a high-level club volleyball team, so she’s come in right away and done a great job,” says Darwin. “She’s quickly adapting to our style of offense and she’s pushing herself every day.”

Fellow freshman Tisha Chapman is no stranger to success either. A three-year high school MVP, Chapman guided nearby Freedom High School to a flawless 25-0 record.

“Tisha is a phenomenal athlete,” says Darwin. “She has had some flashes of brilliance, and it’s scary what she can do. She’s going to be a weapon.”

Up Next

Davidson opens up regular season play at home on Friday afternoon against Georgia Tech before heading into Wildcat Classic action that evening with a match against Georgia State.

The Yellow Jackets are the second-rated team in the ACC and offer the Wildcats a tremendous early-season test.

“The first step is getting the recognition we’ve earned,” acknowledged Schwartz. “But the big thing is living up to it.”

Men’s & Women’s Cross Country: Sept. 1 @ App State

Men’s Soccer—Naval Academy Tournament @ Annapolis, MD
Sept. 1- Towson 5 pm
Sept. 3- Navy 3:30 pm

Women’s Soccer- August 30 vs. UNC Asheville 7:00 (home)
Sept. 2 @ Elon College 4 pm

Field Hockey- Sept. 2 vs. American University @ Williamsburg, VA 3 pm
Sept. 3 @ William & Mary 1 pm