Community celebrations mark beginning of Christmas season — By Christina Cooke, Staff Writer

Carols blare from dorm room radios, stockings hang from dorm room doorknobs, and strings of lights weave across dorm room ceilings. With signs like these, one thing is certain — the holiday season has descended upon Davidson.

The celebrations commenced with the “Christmas in Davidson” festival from Wednesday, November 29 to Friday, December 1. Students and neighborhood families mingled on Main Street, where they purchased cookies, popcorn, cider, and hand-knit slippers that stores sold from tables. Students enjoy the Christmas in Davidson celebration because it gives them the opportunity to mix with the town. Katherine Tate ’03 admits that at the festival, “I feel like Davidson College is part of the community. Christmas especially makes me glad I’m here.”

On Thursday night during the celebration, a thousand luminaries bearing the red AIDS symbol lit the campus paths around Baker, the library, Chambers, the Row, Belk, and Patterson Court “in honor of friends, loved ones, faculty, staff, and alumni who have died of AIDS.” “It was a powerful statement,” notes Student Health Advisor David Wheeler ‘03, one of those who helped coordinate the project. Also along the sidewalk, carolers sang songs including “Silent Night” and “Joy to the World,” and musicians played carols on their accordions, dulcimers, trumpets, and flutes. Amid these melodies, sleigh bells jingled as horses pulled carriages up and down the street (observing the stoplights, of course).

In front of the Post Office on the second night of the celebration, Davidson Elementary School students performed “The Nutcracker,” complete with dancing mice and sugarplum fairies. Later on the lawn of the town green, poodles with antlers, bulldogs in tutus, and great danes in Santa hats strutted across the stage for the “Canine Costume Contest.” Some dogs displayed their tricks for treats, while others ignored the trick requirement and lunged straight for the basket of biscuits on the judge’s table. Moore ’03 finds the luminaries “a concrete way to get the message of AIDS awareness across. People see the luminaries and think of the AIDS problem, and people think of the AIDS problem and remember the luminaries. It becomes a stronger mental image.”

The following Sunday evening, people packed into the pews of Davidson College Presbyterian Church for the annual Vespers Service. Scripture lessons alternated with hymns and anthems (especially “Hark, the Herald Angels Sing”) performed by the Davidson College concert choir, chamber singers, orchestra, brass ensemble, and flute choir. Kate Ramella ’03 felt that singing hymns as part of the choir was like “a Christmas gift to Davidson, because we’re helping to create a reason for everyone to come together and feel the joys of the season.”

The night after the service, students bundled up for the Campus Christmas Party on Chambers Lawn. In between munches of gingerbread men and sips of hot chocolate, they sang carols by candlelight and watched as the lights on the campus Christmas trees shone.

---

Why Ricky Martin is terrible By Tuomas Cullen, Arts & Living Editor

He started out in Menudo. I really don’t think his musical career could have started out any worse than that. Menudo is a Spanish teen singing group that kicks out its members when they get too old. Needless to say, their music is awful. Apparently, Menudo taught Ricky to do everything in an extremely cheesy manner, because nowadays, there is nothing he does that isn’t wretched.

The first Ricky Martin song I ever heard was that “Cup of Life” one, and I’m not going to lie, I liked it at first. How naive I was. Little did I know that he would use it to gain international stardom only to be able to pollute our world with such songs as “Livin' La Vida Loca,” which was not horrible the first time I heard it, but was terrible by the 400th time, and quite possibly my least favorite song ever recorded, “Shake Your Bon-Bon.” I would rather watch the Broncos beat the Raiders on Monday Night Football than hear this song again. Maybe that was a little extreme, but I definitely loathe that song.

Now, Ricky is back with another album entitled Sound Loaded. I feel for the parents who must accompany their nit-wit kids to these shows and watch this person dance around like an idiot while listening to him sing songs that are some of the worst in the history of popular recording. I have only heard some of one song off of Sound Loaded called “She Bangs.” The song is pathetic. If I find out that anyone on the Davidson campus has bought this CD, I will make you drive me to a sports bar to watch all non-televised Raiders games, and then during the Super Bowl, you will be my butler.

I really am at a loss for words about this guy. Ricky Martin is just so cheesy that I really cannot see why anyone would want to hear his music. He is just so bad. For the sake of the human race, do not give this man any more money by going to his concerts or buying his records. He does not deserve it. (Thanks to T. Rayburn for ideas).For the first time this season, midway through the party, Santa and Mrs. Claus arrived, but not by sleigh as usual. Instead, the two rappelled from the roof of Chambers. Mrs. Claus (a.k.a. Anna Padgett ’01) declares, “The view from the top of Chambers is splendiferous. Since it was clear, we could see the Charlotte skyline off behind the Union! The crowd scene is really amazing because you could see everyone’s face aglow with candlelight.” “As you’re coming down from the top,” she adds, “it is very difficult to remember that Santa says ‘ho ho ho’ and not ‘Whoooooo000000 Ho00000000000000.’”

Students enjoy the holidays at the college because the celebrations give them the chance to spend time with each other in the spirit of the season. “Despite the busy time of exams and the stress at the end of the semester,” says Ramella, “celebrating Christmas brings happiness and allows us to share the meaning of the season before we leave.” “Whether you celebrate Christmas or not, the festivities the school puts on give everyone a chance to celebrate something before finals begin,” exclaims Padgett. “I think that the most important aspect of the holiday hullabaloo is that it builds a community tradition based on fun and imagination, rather than on an entirely religious focus. There are so many things to celebrate right now in Davidson—Hanukkah, Kwanzaa, Ramadan, and Christmas,” she continues. “Despite the clear connections of our celebration to Christianity, I hope that everyone feels welcome to come and celebrate the season—whatever the season may be.”

Unbreakable: An Uneasy Mix of Ordinary, Extraordinary
By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Is Unbreakable a story about supernatural characters living in our world? Or, is it a story about real people living in a supernatural world? Well, it’s a little bit of both. There’s nothing inherently wrong with either situation: both have been made into great movies, such as Dark City and Carrie. But combining the situations like Unbreakable does produces a film that, despite being especially interesting, is too polarized. There are times when the movie is saturated with the events of everyday life: going to work, spending time with your family, working out. And then there are times when the film is strikingly eerie. To the movie’s credit, all its scenes—creepy and mundane—are well directed and very effective. Unfortunately, this produces a distracting juxtaposition.

Early in the film, a train leaving from Philadelphia derails and kills everyone onboard except David Dunn (Bruce Willis), who emerges miraculously unharmed. Days later, David finds a note on his car that reads, “Limited Edition” on the front, and, “How many days of your life have you been sick?” on the inside. He doesn’t know the answer to the question. He asks his wife (Robin Wright Penn). She doesn’t know either. He tracks down the note’s author, Elijah Prince (Samuel L. Jackson in his best performance since 1998’s Eve’s Bayou), who has a condition that weakens his bones so that they break easily. Elijah, a man who walks, talks, and dresses like a comic book villain, works at a gallery for comic book art, hence “Limited Edition.” It seems he’s been looking for someone like David, a man who has been the lone survivor of a horrible accident. If his bones break easily, shouldn’t there be someone at the other end of the spectrum? Someone who is unbreakable? Elijah has come to believe that a man like David could be a superhero. That’s right. A superhero. David dismisses Elijah as insane, as does his wife in a later scene.

The movie then, for a considerable amount of time, focuses on David and his wife and son, becoming an observant family drama. But Elijah and his ideas return to the movie, and we begin to wonder if David really could be a superhero. He has superhuman strength and the ability to sense people’s wrongdoings. He even has a weakness. The movie answers our questions in scenes that are worthy of their comparisons to Hitchcock. There is an absolutely chilling sequence towards the end that even out of the context of the film would work wonderfully. Yet despite the chilling nature of these scenes, M. Night Shyamalan wisely keeps most of his film grounded in reality. It is the art direction involving Jackson’s character—keep an eye out for his car—that suggests the film is a comic book put to life, creating a contrast that distracts.

Like Shyamalan’s The Sixth Sense, there is a startling revelation in Unbreakable that redefines the film. And like the revelation in The Sixth Sense, it is in plain sight during the whole film, proving Shyamalan’s skill at deception. And like the revelation in The Sixth Sense, it also lowers the film’s integrity, like almost all surprise endings in movies, including the over-appreciated The Usual Suspects. See In the Company of Men and The Spanish Prisoner for the best exceptions. Despite its flaws, Unbreakable is an unusually strong movie, one that is a well-made family drama and an effective thriller. If only Shyamalan combined both more seamlessly. Grade: B-

Kids don’t like eating lunch at school; but if they got a remains of the day lunch box, they’re a whole lot happier.