This future Wildcat interrupts a photo op for the cheerleaders.

Phi Delta Theta follows national policy, goes dry

By Zeb Kelley
Staff Writer

Usually, the word “fraternity” inevitably precedes the word “alcohol,” or at least on a college campus. The two seem to go hand in hand.

For the brothers of Phi Delta Theta, on Davidson’s Patterson Court, this will be true no longer.

President Torrey Bartlett explains that the national organization has voted to become alcohol-free to “reduce liability” in all chapters. This basically means that the fraternity house must be an alcohol-free environment. Bartlett seems to represent the general consensus on the ruling saying, “Obviously, we are not thrilled with the ruling, but for the most part we are taking it in stride.”

To date, Phi Delta Theta has given many successful parties that have achieved very impressive attendance, despite the alcohol-free policy. Bartlett also says that Davidson has been very helpful in making the “difficult transition.”

The optimistic outlook held by the Phi Delta Theta fraternity shows its strength in their somewhat isolated position. They have adapted well so far, but the policy is not going away. According to Bartlett, this will be a permanent part of the fraternity.

Maybe the brothers of Phi Delta Theta can eventually change the widely held preconception and continue to operate as a fun, social outlet.

Looks great on a resume
Write for

The Davidsonian

Contact Aaron Houck x5564 or Richard Vinson x6213

—exam time or just for fun!

BEN & JERRY’S

VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for parties, graduation celebrations, study breaks.

202 Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

PiKA, from page 1
evade. Even if an organization chooses to violate these terms, which Moore says she doesn’t remember ever happening, “the cops know who’s on probation.”

Moore believes fraternities feel the effects of probation when it’s implemented.

“It’s hard on a fraternity, especially during rush season. They don’t get their name out there because they often choose not to have parties,” she said.

PiKA, for example, had to postpone its annual champagne party for the senior women. Due to such pitfalls, Moore said, organizations coming off probation tend to be careful.

Schaefer, however, dismissed the idea that probation is crippling.

“It puts a different spin” on life but “it only means no alcohol,” he said. Nevertheless, he and the other members are “glad to be back for the rest of the first semester.”

When asked if PiKA was planning on doing anything differently after this incident, Schaefer stressed that last spring’s incident was an anomaly. Most of the time, houses are reprimanded when “something stupid happens.” He pointed to PiKA’s strong service record to counter any negative perceptions of the fraternity.

Sudden spike in reports of theft on campus

By Amber Parke
Staff Writer

“...Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from stealing.” Everyone has read this, each one of us has signed it — so why is there an increase in thefts and larcenies at our school this year?

At the time this article was written, six bicycles, a golf cart, and various other items ranging from a camcorder to a laptop to cash have all been reported stolen, adding up to a net worth of over $4000.

“All of these incidents have been crimes of opportunity,” reassured Sam McKelvey, Director of Public Safety and Police. Most articles reported stolen were left unattended, a problem which McKelvey attributes to students’ increasing complacency.

In the meantime, McKelvey cautions students to lock up any valuable personal belongings and to take reasonable precautions; “We would like to believe that everyone who signed the Honor Code will abide by it, but that is not always the case.”