_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000 _

Privacy vs. disclosure: which matters most?

As I’m sure everyone is aware, the front page of today’s Davidsonian issue highlights a particular Honor Council case which
has become public record due to external litigation in the State of North Carolina’s courts. I want to make it
absolutely clear from the start that I have not yet read that article, nor do I know much at all
about the particular case it details.

As I understand it, exceptional circumstances make this situation a unique one. I do not know the specifics of that
case, so I cannot begin to discuss it. This editorial is in no way a response to the front-page article
or the case it details, but rather an independent attempt to initiate a dialogue between the Honor Council and the
College community.

Given the publicity surrounding that case, it seems a fitting time to discuss a major issue with which the Council
often struggles: the proper degree of privacy in closed hearings.

The issue of privacy vs. open disclosure is a continuing one. Just last week it arose at a forum attended
by Council members and faculty and staff, where valid arguments were made for both privacy and partial disclosure.

Should certain information about closed Honor Council hearings be made public, or not? The answer to this matter—like with so
many other Council issues—is far from black-and-white.

Privacy is essential for the protection of the accused, accuser(s), Council members, witnesses—everyone involved in a hearing. Publicizing hearings could
unjustly tarnish the reputation of an accused person found not guilty. And for those who are found guilty, undue publicity
could jeopardize the community’s ability to re-embrace that individual.

Accusers need the protection of privacy, as well. One of the most trying aspects of our Code is the obligation
it places on students to turn in fellow peers if violations occur. It’s a tough obligation, but it’s the backbone
of our Code.

The privacy of the accuser is absolutely necessary to secure the execution of this trying responsibility. Fear of criticism or
social banishment could cause students to ignore violations they witness. Were this to happen, the Code and the College community
would suffer. Students who stand up for the Code and report violations or who act as witnesses need to be
able to rely on privacy.

On the other hand, partial disclosure could also serve to clarify varying conceptions regarding the Code’s application. At last week’s
Honor Council forum for faculty and staff, there seemed to be some discrepancies over what were violations and what were
not violations of the Code. We discussed such topics as incorrectly cited papers and the use of spots for review
preparation. Perhaps a partial disclosure of previous Honor Council proceedings would offer a clearer sense of how the Honor Council
applies the Code.

As it stands now, the College community has limited exposure to the specific applications of the Code in regards to
closed hearings. The Council submits a brief report to The Davidsonian at the end of each semester, which specifies the
general nature of the violation (i.e., “cheating,” “lying to a college official,” etc.), the plea of the accused, and the
sanction(s) imposed. Perhaps a bit more exposure could be beneficial.

But where do we draw the line between useful disclosure and detrimental infringement upon privacy?

This question is the crux of the discussion about the issue. And it has no perfect answer.

Perhaps, however, this ambiguity over the dividing line creates a useful flexibility in the application of the Code. We must
recognize the Honor Code as a fluid document, and this fluidity allows the Code to fit each individual case.

Partial disclosure could help to increase the community’s understanding of the Code and the Council. However, we must always prioritize
a proper degree of privacy and respect for everyone directly involved.

Nestled between these two notions is a gray area that merits continued exploration of the issue.

Justin Perkinson ‘00
Honor Council Chair

RLO STAFF POSITIONS

STILL AVAILABLE

Still interested in an RA or HC position?

Please stop by RLO in basement Belk to pick up an application, or call x2188 for more information.

Extended application deadline is Monday, March 27.

~ Robert Morgan

author of

Gap Creek

appearing
7 pm
Monday
April 10

at

Little Professor Book Center
Jetton Village

Cornelius
896-7323

www.littleprofessor.com/cornelius
