By JENN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

There is a first time for everything. And what could have been a better time than Wednesday night in Richardson
Stadium for the Davidson women's soccer team (4-1) to defeat the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina (0-5)?

In their previous four encounters, the Gamecocks had defeated the Wildcats simply with their precision and aggressive offensive attacks. But
this time, it appeared the underdog had their advantage in goal with senior goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan. The senior co-captain had
her most impressive performance in goal so far this season. Corrigan tallied an outstanding 12 saves on the night. Saves
which gave the Davidson offense the confidence it needed to push forward and score two big goals in the second
half for the win.

The only ball that got past Corrigan all night long was off of South Carolina midfielder Lydia Bienias in the
23rd minute. An aggressive Amy Leitch '04 challenged Bienias for the ball on the ground just a few yards from
goal. Leitch attempted to clear the ball, but Bienias got the touch she needed to send it past her and
a diving Corrigan into the back of the net.

After that, it was all Davidson (or maybe all Maloney). Eight minutes later, Heather Maloney '03, assisted by her twin
sister Tara '03, took the ball down the wing to rip a shot past South Carolina keeper Elise Matthews for
the equalizer. The Maloneys have been a powerful combination since arriving at Davidson last year. Tara has received numerous accolades
including being a first team All-Southern Conference player last season as well as being a member of the 2000 preseason
All-Southern Conference team. While her sister Heather leads the team in points this season and is currently ranked 13th in
Division I for points per game (3.00) and 10th in Division I for assists per game (1.00).

Both Heather and Tara enjoy the opportunity to help each other on the field, especially to score goals. “We just
connect really well,” said Tara. “We’re always aware where the other one is on the field without having to look.”

Netting the game winner became only a matter of finishing after Maloney's equalizer. The Wildcats took 10 shots to the
Gamecocks' 8 in the second half. Two found the back of the net. Mary Ellen Schaefer scored the game winner
off a free kick by Deneille Erikson. The 5’9” sophomore and former high school basketball star used her “ups” to
get her head on the ball over a stretching Gamecock defense. Schaefer admits to always using her head for the
benefit of the team. “One of my main responsibilities is to get to the ball in a free kick situation,”
said Schaefer. “Deneille’s perfectly placed ball made it easy for me to get my head on and score.”

The final goal on the evening came from a Tara Maloney free kick which sailed into the box and out
of the South Carolina keeper's reach in the 75th minute. Catie Williams '04 was there to catch the frazzled keeper
off-guard with her swift touch into the back of the net.

Davidsonian Player of the Week
Heather Maloney

Maloney led the women’s soccer team to two impressive wins by tallying 3 goals in the two games.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2000

Football struggles for shutout victory over Sewanee
By CASSY PENA AND TALESHIA MURPHY
Staff Writers

After a huge win against the University of Jacksonville last week, the Wildcat football team came out with another win,
14-0, against Sewanee (2-1). The win did not come easily, however, as the offense struggled to put 14 points on
the board. The team’s focus and mentality thatwas so dominating in the first game did not seem to be present
against the Tigers. “We had scoring opportunities early and missed two field goals and that was frustrating. We did some
things to get us better field position as the game went on and we hung in there all day,” said
head coach Joe Susan after the game. Sophomore receiver Mike Tarver added, “Offensively, it was tough for us to keep
our heads up during the game, but we remained focused and came out with a hard-fought victory.”

The first half did not see much offensive progress. Sophomore quarterback, Paul Nichols observed, “We just underestimated them. We really
didn’t have a good week at practice and that showed in the way we played.” The only touchdown of the
half came on a special teams play by senior Ryan Crawford. Towards the end of the second quarter, Crawford, named
IAA special teams player of the week for the second straight week, blocked a punt by Sewanee’s Rusty Wood near
the end zone and fell on it for the score. The ‘Cats went to the locker room at halftime with
a 7-0 lead. “At the half, I asked our defense if they had a shutout in them,” said Coach Susan.
“The answer was a resounding ‘Yes!’” And that they did. The defense was once again solid as ever, not allowing
the Tigers to get a decent drive or even decent field position with the exception of their second possession that
got them to the Davidson 27-yard line. There were three big sacks of which senior Blake McNaughton had one, sharing
another with senior Ryan Hutto. McNaughton also had 10 tackles. Junior Sam Fraundorf made the other sack, and sophomore Jim
Carney contributed to the effort with nine tackles.

The second touchdown did not come until the final minutes of the game. After not gaining much yardage through the
first three quarters, senior Bryan Fish ran for 67 yards in the fourth. On the ‘Cats’ second possession of the
quarter, Fish fought for 37 yards followed by a 14-yard run to set the ‘Cats up for a pass. Nichols
sealed the victory by completing a 5-yard pass to sophomore Mike Chase, who, using his 6’6” stature, was able to
reel in the pass over the defender.

The overall sentiment of the game was that the ‘Cats were not as ready to play as they should have
been. “These guys were tougher than we expected them to be. But we put enough points on the board to
win and that is what counts,” said McNaughton. The win gives the ‘Cats their ninth consecutive, breaking the school record
set in the 1917-18 season. The next opponent will be Emory & Henry this Saturday at 2:00 in the Homecoming
game.

Inside:
- Volleyball splits pair
- Men’s Soccer dominates Va. Tech
- Women’s Soccer defeats Duquesne
- Golf season begins
- Field Hockey vs. Wake Forest

AHEAD:
MEN’S SOCCER
- Sept. 20 - South Carolina 6:15
- Sept. 22 - Chattanooga 4:00
- Sept. 22 - Air Force Academy 6:00
- Sept. 24 - Western Carolina 7:00
- Sept. 24 - Denver 1:00

FIELD HOCKEY
- Sept. 27 - Wake Forest 6:15
- Sept. 21 @ Catawba 4:30

VOLLEYBALL
- Sept. 23 - Appalachian St. 1:00
- Sept. 23 @ Col. Charleston 1:00
- Sept. 24 - Alumni Game 1:00
- Sept. 24 @ The Citadel 7:00

CROSS COUNTRY
- Sept. 26 - UNC Greensboro 7:00
- Sept. 22 - Great American Meet in Colorado Springs, CO
- in Charlotte, NC
