_ from page 1 computers to enable easy sharing of music files, both legal and pirated. _ Specifically, although the
Internet has always made it possible to share information of many kinds, Napster has simplified the once arduous task of
finding good music files. According to Davidson student Tim Kelley ‘04, who began trading files over the Internet several years
ago, well before Napster’s inception, “Napster made it easy for those who were not Internet-savvy to access MP3 files.”

The case against music sharing

Understandably, this prospect was not exciting to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), which promptly filed suit. However, because
of Napster’s amazing ability to slip through legal loopholes, the company has been able to force a lengthy court battle.
As a result of Napster’s design, the Napster server does not hold music files on it, but only links users
to other computers that have the desired files. Thus, the parties who should be held legally responsible are the individual
Napster users who knowingly download copyrighted MP3 files and provide them to others.

In an interview with USA Today, Cary Sherman, general counsel of the RIAA, said that Napster had “come up with
a very clever way to be involved and get the commercial benefit of facilitating piracy without touching the stolen goods
themselves. They’re providing all of the means for the exchange of stolen goods, but they avoid touching it.” Nevertheless, a
federal court ruled in July that sites like Gnutella, MP3.com, and Napster are not protected under the Home Audio Recording
Act, which allows private citizens to copy music for their own use but not for commercial or public distribution. The
federal court decided users of Napster copy files for public distribution in addition to private use; a September 8 brief
from the US Copyright Office backed up this decision. Needless to say, Napster is appealing the decision.

MP3.com recently settled a similar copyright infringement lawsuit with Universal Music Group; the site made CDs available to users, and
Universal Music Group has been awarded $25,000 per CD — a figure which could approach $250 million total. However, regardless
of whether these sites are allowed to continue operating, there is general consensus in music circles that it is time
for major changes in the way music is distributed.

MP3 policy at Davidson

Most Davidson users have little sympathy for the huge record companies currently suing the designers of the web program. Hinds
Holland ’04 feels the service only hurts “commercial bands” with one or two catchy songs to their name. Megan Kota
’04 agrees, “You’re not going to download a whole CD.” And, in fact, in a recent survey, Napster users claimed
they actually buy more CDs because of the program. This has not stopped the attorney representing Metallica and Dr. Dre
from issuing warnings to two other North Carolina universities, UNC Chapel Hill and Duke, asking them to block Napster access.
While the letters did not threaten a lawsuit, Robert Lee, Davidson’s Coordinator of Network Services, said, “If it’s coming off
[a] network and it’s illegal, [a college is] responsible for it.”

Copyright issues aside, ITS warned against music-swapping programs because they turn a computer into a server, which is forbidden by
the “Acceptable Use” policy all students sign to get hooked up to the network. Lee explained that any computer which
provides files or data to other computers becomes a server - and “Napster makes a computer a source of music
files.” Most servers used by large web companies — Netscape, for example — are built to put out huge amounts
of data. The Davidson network is not; when other people download large files through the Davidson network, it “throws it
off balance” because expectations for server use were not built around such activities. Many students work

---

IT'S TIME TO SPEAK OUT ABOUT EATING DISORDERS. There are many stereotypes surrounding eating disorders and who they affect. For
this reason, OCTOBER 2ND will be a night for those who are in the process of recovering from an eating
disorder — or for those who are assisting a friend or family member in recovery — to share their experiences.
If you would like to speak at this event, or would be willing to share relevant literature, music, or artwork,
please notify Lindsay Flora (liflora) x5398 or Will Parker (wiparker) x5902.

Wanted! Spring Breakers! Cancun, Bahamas, Florida, & Jamaica. Call Sun Coast Vacations for a free brochure and ask how you
can organize a small group & Eat, Drink, Travel Free & Earn Cash! Call 1-888-777-4642 or email sales@suncoastvacations.comaround the “server”
clause by unsharing their files, which means other users will be unable to access their MP3s. But even if files
are unshared, downloading songs still consumes large amounts of bandwidth. Bandwidth, Lee explained, is essentially the amount of data the
network is able to send out and receive. Davidson’s network is built around 2 T1 lines, which are capable of
processing 375,000 bytes per second. This connection could download a 5-minute MP3 file in 12 seconds, but that assumes the
downloader is the only person on the network at the time. “When you get more people [downloading songs at the
same time] it eats up a lot of the available space,” Lee contended. This won’t affect the campus internal network—i.e.
e-mail—but it will slow Internet connections and make life more difficult for people trying to access CNN.com or other websites.

To clarify the effect these programs have on the network, a brief experiment was conducted. At 7 pm—a popular Napster-usage
hour—an attempt to download a 4.5 MB file would have taken over 3 hours; all downloads proceeded at a glacial
2k/sec. At 9 am the following day—when most people were either in class or asleep—the same file from the same
source could be downloaded at 30k/sec. Total time: under two minutes.

Hope for Napster et al.? A compromise may not be as impossible as it sounds; after all, the movie industry
once tried to shut down VHS over similar copyright fears. However, VHS manufacturers never faced anything as crushing as a
federal court ruling in their opponent’s favor or a brief from the US Copyright Office saying they have no possible
defense. Napster’s last legal leg seems to be the argument it cannot control the conduct of individual users. In fact,
when someone downloads Napster, one of the Terms of Service instructs the user that he or she will be solely
responsible for any copyright infringement stemming from Napster use; Gnutella and MP3.com have similar disclaimers.

Flashback to 1992: Stone Temple Pilots - Core
By Thomas Cullen
Staff Writer

For this week’s CD review, I invite you to return to 1992, when Pearl Jam ruled and Britney Spears was
ten years old. The Stone Temple Pilots (STP) was one of many grunge bands just trying to make an impact
on the music scene. With the arrival of their debut record Core, the band solidified its place in music—a position
they still hold today with the release of their most recent record, No.4.

The music of the times was filled with confusion, aggression, and questioning, and STP was right on the mark with
Core. Scott Weiland, Dean Deleo, Robert Deleo, and Eric Kretz show you what they can do from the beginning. With
its jagged guitars and flowing sounds, the raw energy of “Sex Type Thing” perfectly exhibits the band’s confidence in its
music. Some of the songs on Core are simply staples of 1992. Upon hearing “Wicked Garden” with its stop-and-go guitars
and perfect bass line, you are transported to a place when all that mattered was who these people were and
where you could get their record. The emotional mood continues with “Sin,” a tune filled with intricate sounds and a
Van Halen-esque solo.

A few of STP’s songs display fine musical talent but are greatly hurt by the simply horrible distortion of Weiland’s
voice, as shown in “Piece of Pie.” This song should have been fabulous, but the Pilots just got a little
too creative. Also, the song is excessively long... to the point that you want to stop listening. The gem of
the album is obviously “Plush.” STP shifts the music from soft to hard like seasoned veterans. STP has not made
a song like this in a long time. To follow up “Plush,” STP offers up “Crackerman” which simply rocks. Enough
said.

Perhaps if Weiland were not consistently in rehab, STP could have put out some albums that were close to Core.
Instead, the quality of STP’s albums declined with each release. The follow-up to Core, Purple, had some well-crafted songs, but
the third and fourth albums floundered. Yet, due to the success of Core, the group has a solid group of
fans, myself included. Throughout their career, the frequency of STP’s records has been based on Weiland’s addictions and visits to
rehab. Without this turmoil, who knows what quality of music they could have produced. Granted, they have secured a place
in today’s music, but it is nowhere as important of a place as they could have had.
