“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”
ESTABLISHED 1914

RLO resolves housing issues.
NEWS 2

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Stop being sheep — and start talking.
VIEWPOINT 8

Baseball sweeps doubleheader.
SPORTS 10

Senate calls for flag relocation
By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

On Tuesday night, the SGA passed a resolution calling for the relocation of the Confederate Battle Flag from its perch
atop the South Carolina State House. The resolution resulted from the efforts of a committee formed and chaired by SGA
President Dane Erickson. This action commits the SGA to “actively support” efforts to bring down the flag.

The authors of the resolution cited several reasons the flag should be removed, first and foremost labeling the flag a
“symbol of division and racial oppression.” In addition, the resolution stressed the close ties between the Davidson College community and
the State of South Carolina. The two are linked not only through students and alumni but also through Davidson’s participation
in the Southern Conference. Four of the schools in the Southern Conference are in South Carolina—Furman, Wofford, College of Charleston,
and The Citadel.

The resolution also expresses the hope that students can play a major role in this nationwide effort. It notes “students
have been catalysts for change” in past social and civil rights movements. Proponents of the resolution expressed hope it would
help unite the various schools of the Southern Conference.

Where from here?

Nevertheless, the meaning of “active support” remains unclear. Erickson mentioned several options, ranging from a march on Columbia to sending
student representatives to the state legislature. “As far as taking a definitive step, we're still in the process of deciding,”
he acknowledged.

At this point, the SGA is most concerned with achieving unity among Southern Conference schools. As Erickson said, “We want
to pull the Southern Conference together.” SGA Vice President Joey Harris agreed that the resolution is intended to express “support
for the rest of the Southern Conference in taking the flag down.” Erickson added, “The most important thing is doing
it as a collective, as a group.”

Spanish professor hospitalized
By ALISON KALETT
Editor in Chief

On Monday afternoon, Professor of Spanish Lois A. “Sandy” Kemp suffered a massive stroke while at her home in Davidson.
Dr. Kemp, founder of the Spanish department and member of the Davidson faculty since 1972, was found by a physical
plant worker and immediately rushed to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center where she remains unconscious in the critical care unit.

Although Dr. Kemp cannot receive visitors, members of the Spanish Department as well as Dean of Faculty Clark Ross and
President Bobby Vagt have been to the hospital to check on her condition and visit with Professor Kemp’s family members,
Martha and Ted McKnight. “The whole community is saddened,” said Ross. “Dr. Kemp is a very dedicated teacher and we
are hoping for the best.”

“We want to help in any and all ways,” said Spanish Department Chair Mary Vasquez. “Also, we want to express
the concern felt by all members of the Spanish Department and our wishes for a full recovery for Dr. Kemp.”

Until Dr. Kemp is able to return, her Spanish 101 and 102 classes will be taught by other members of
the Spanish department. Both classes will continue to meet for the duration of the semester.goals in mind. Most importantly, he
found the Confederate Battle Flag to be a symbol of racial prejudice. “There are signs of oppression all around us.
This is a symbol of that oppression and injustice.” As such, he felt that a determined effort was needed to
alter the present display of the flag. Senator Laura McCandlish ’02 agreed that the flag is simply not an appropriate
symbol given its hateful connotation. “I think we owe it to the minority students,” she said. “It’s such an oppressive
symbol.” Erickson bemoaned the fact that, in spite of the flag’s negative association, nothing has been done about it. “Yes,
it’s blown up by the media; yes, it’s a national issue. But when you come down to it, nothing has
been done.” He saw student organization and involvement as crucial.

See Flag, page 2.

Alison Kalett

Where there’s smoke there’s fire

SGA debates smoking in residence halls

By Aaron Houck
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association voted overwhelmingly on Tuesday to advise the Residence Life Office to offer a smoke-free residence hall
for the 2000-2001 school year. The decision was made after lengthy debate over various proposed changes to the college’s smoking
policy. Currently, there is no smoking allowed in any public buildings other than the residence halls and Patterson Court Houses.
Students are allowed to smoke in their rooms (but not in the halls or lounges), so long as the door
is closed and with their roommate’s consent. But many are calling for a change of that policy—citing health issues of
second-hand smoke and the overall environment in the residence halls. Several students expressed dismay at the levels of smoke that
have flowed into their rooms this year from smokers down the hall or on other floors. Some senators argued that
the present college policy does not adequately protect the rights of those irritated by cigarette smoke, contending that there is
no way to completely arrest the flow of smoke from different areas. Class of 2003 senator Trip Young attested that
some of his constituents compared the current smoking policy to having a “peeing area of a pool. It’s not gonna
work, it’s gonna spread everywhere.” While some contended that individuals have a right to conduct legal activities (including smoking) in
their own rooms, others countered that college policy already regulates student possession of pets, halogen lamps, toasters, and other articles
in their rooms that could possibly pollute the environment or serve as a fire hazard. Just a week before Tuesday’s
meeting, the SGA had commissioned a poll to gauge public opinion regarding smoking in the residence halls. Cader Howard, chairman
of the SGA’s Polling & Response Committee, presented the results before debate ensued on Tuesday. Three hundred students received the
random-sample e-mail survey, which asked students to approve or disapprove of a series of proposed policies. The most popular option
according to the poll was the creation of a single smoke-free residence hall, with 77% of respondents favoring such a
change. The option with the second-highest level of support was the creation of smoke-free floors in various dormitories, but the
SGA concluded that smoke would unlikely be contained to a particular hall. Although 84% of students reported that they had
never smoked in a residence hall.

See Smoking, page 2.

Davidson, NC 28036
