As our semester as editors comes to a close, it’s only fitting that we take this time to thank the
many people who contributed to the production of these past ten newspapers. First and foremost, our heartfelt gratitude goes out
to Ben Covington. His tremendous devotion, unyielding perseverance, and continual patience were invaluable over this semester. Ben brought unprecedented technical
prowess to The Davidsonian—he laid out practically every column inch of the newspaper this spring, and his creative touch delivered
the new flag atop the front page of the newspaper. More than any other individual, the production of The Davidsonian
was contingent upon his services.

Similarly, Cader Howard deserves limitless applause for his efforts. A constant source of energy and enthusiasm, Cader’s presence made 4
AM work-nights not just bearable, but enjoyable. Cader and Ben created some fabulous graphics—from the “Changing Lanes” track photo to
superimposing images of the new Knobloch Campus Center.

The next round of thanks goes out to the section editors. These individuals worked the trenches all semester—keeping abreast of
campus happenings, managing staffs of writers, editing every week, and often accepting the burden of writing last-minute stories. Their jobs
spanned every day of every week this semester. Seth Davis and Ann Gregory contributed to as fine a News section
as The Davidsonian has seen in recent years. They managed a scope of stories that scratched beneath the surface, probing
into pertinent and relevant issues. Roshan Paul, too, set a standard as the first editor of The Davidsonian’s International Commentary
section, answering the call to help bridge the gap between the proverbial bubble of Davidson College and the world at
large.

At the back of the paper, Burgin Hardin was the picture of dedication and creativity. He lifted the sports section
to sights unseen, combining a breadth and depth of coverage that highlighted the wondrous athletic endeavors that Davidson students embark
on. Burgin synchronized the efforts of the largest staff of any section of the newspaper—and unilaterally built, refined, and polished
that section each and every week.

Another new face of The Davidsonian this semester was the Features section. Carrie Riley took on the challenge with patience
and professionalism—juggling the heated debates that often stewed beneath the text of these stories. Erica Schwartz presided over a flurry
of campus discussions in the pages of our newly-renamed Viewpoint section. She deftly coordinated the various voices and views that
were presented as our campus struggled with matters extending from the Honor Code to cable television—and brought a voice of
professionalism, sensibility, and lightheartedness to our editorial board meetings.

Students find bulletin board offensive

Posted on a bulletin board between room 334 and Dr. Barnes’s office in Chambers are several items deprecating various aspects
of Catholicism. This board makes no attempt to engage the viewer in a consideration of issues. We believe that it
either is meant to be disparaging towards Catholics, or it’s supposed to be funny. If the latter is the case,
we don’t get it.

Our first clue that this bulletin board does not seek to be objective is what appears to be a set
of Reformation-era woodcuts. One shows people flatulating in the face of the Pope, another shows people defecating on his crown,
and a third shows him being born of the anti-Christ. This Reformation propaganda is anachronistic and seems irrelevant to contemporary
issues.

One newspaper clipping is a photograph taken at a recent mass for St. Therese. The caption explains that her remains
were at the church for this mass, and a quip penned on exclaims, “Holy Bones!” We’re not sure why someone
would mock the idea of honoring the dead in this way. Many Jews bring the bones of their families to
Israel. People of all traditions tend and visit the places where the remains of their loved ones are located. When
a loved one dies in an accident or abroad, family members want to recover the body. People visit the graves
of strangers who have influenced them, for example, John F. Kennedy.

A copy of another newspaper article is posted with several very large exclamation points marked on it. The article is
entitled, “Pope expands indulgences for 2000 feast.” The name of the newspaper from which this article was clipped is absent.
However, the typestyle is identical to that of The Charlotte Observer. This article was condensed from the New York Times;
however, significant portions have been removed such that the meaning of the article is distorted.Original article has been warped. Context
clues suggest that this bulletin board is maintained by a faculty member in the History Department. A history professor should
know that in consulting documents, one should preferably refer to the original source. When using reprinted/condensed sources, the source should
be cited.

On October 31, 1999, the Catholic and Lutheran Churches essentially resolved the doctrinal dispute which was in large part responsible
for the Reformation by signing an accord, which held that justification comes through the grace of God through faith in
Jesus Christ. We find it ironic and disconcerting that this board advocates division and dissension among Christians based on erroneous
beliefs and inaccurate stereotypes at a time when the leaders of the Catholic Church and the Lutheran World Federation have
made substantive moves towards ecumenism. Evidently, the person/s maintaining this bulletin board has/have a bone to pick (excuse the pun)
with Catholics. We believe that dissenting opinions are essential and valuable to any public discourse; however, we do not believe
that these postings promote an honest discussion of the issues related to Catholicism.

Julia Chemotti, ’00
Olga Granda, ’01
Senior Honor Council Members

The senior class was mistakenly omitted from the list of Honor Council members in last week’s issue.

Joslyn Ogden
Kara Barker
Janice Baker
Kelly Carter
Liz Clasen
Sarah Davis
Paul Eubanks
Elizabeth Fraser
Ana Rosa Garcia de la Torre
Robert Hawk
Andrew Holbrook
Sam Kuykendall
Reid Leavitt
Lindsay Meyers
Laura Morriss

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck will be assuming the roles of editors-in-chief come this fall. Richard Wright took on the
formidable task of trailblazing this new segment, highlighting issues ranging from the Honor Code to Religion and Spirituality on campus.
Thanks also to Anna Erickson, who arrived without fail every Tuesday night to copy edit each page of The Davidsonian.
On the business end, Peter Clark and David Johnston were spectacular in their roles as business and advertising managers. Their
efforts brought in the vast majority of the funds that fueled The Davidsonian—and starting in January, they righted a budget
that was projected to fall thousands of dollars into the red. Thanks to their dedicated ad solicitation and shrewd business
planning, they rounded out the year with a surplus in The Davidsonian’s ATC budget.

We also need to thank the Dean Rusk program and the Student Government Association for contributing $1200 so that we
could purchase rights to Associated Press news stories. This purchase brought another dimension to the newspaper. Cindy Clark and Ina
Spechar and their distribution staff—Matt West, Jeff Goldman, David Moncure, Rebecca Stewart, Amber Worrell, Mary Ann Loman, Jordon Steele—“walked the
beats,” delivering The Davidsonians to your doorstep each week and managing off-campus subscriptions and circulation. Stephen Gamboa graciously volunteered his
talent, catapulting The Davidsonian into cyberspace each and every week.

There are a vast array of people who deserve thanks for helping us get ourselves off the ground this semester.
Editors emeritus Wes Goldsberry and Michael Kruse were exceptionally instrumental in preparing us for the daunting task of producing The
Davidsonian. Also invaluable was the advice and guidance of Ferrel Guillory—this year’s Batton Professor, and a former editorial page editor
of the Raleigh News & Observer. Mr. Guillory offered continuing advice and guidance from day one, and we graciously thank
him for his commitment. The unsung heroes of The Davidsonian, though, are the countless staff writers that contributed their energies
and invested so much heart and time into their stories. Two of them, Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck, will be
assuming the roles of editors-in-chief come this fall. They promise to bring a fresh look, a passion for their work,
and limitless energy to this endeavor, and we wish them the best of luck.

The problem with naming names is that we inevitably will leave someone out. We'll apologize in advance, and if it’s
any consolation—that omission was the final mistake we ever make as editors-in-chief of the nation’s foremost college weekly.

Alison Kalett ’01
Mike Anderson ’02
Editors-in-Chief

@ ALENDA LUX UBI The Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS @

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
Mike Anderson
Alison Kalett

EXECUTIVE LAYOUT EDITOR
Ben Covington

BUSINESS MANAGERS
Peter Clark
David Johnston

DESIGNERS
Patrick Clark
Ben Covington

COPY EDITOR
Cader Howard

FEATURES EDITOR
Stephen Gamboa

NEWS EDITOR
Cindy Clark

CIRCULATION MANAGERS
Ina Spechar
Wes Goldsberry

ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER
David Johnston

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html
