6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NATION

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Haverford College to allow opposite-sex roommates

HAVERFORD, Pa. (AP) — Partly in response to requests from gay students, Haverford College will allow men and women to share bedrooms next school year in the college’s apartment-style dormitories.

“There are a number of men and women who are friends and who would like to live together, just as there are gay and lesbian students who have difficulty finding people who they’re comfortable living with,” said Robin Doan, the college’s director of student housing.

Mixed-gender groups of three students will be allowed to share two-bedroom units at the Haverford College Apartments, which house a third of the school’s 1,118 students.

The new rules will not apply to one-bedroom apartments or to the dormitories for freshmen, but they will bring the college closer to Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., and Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass. Those schools allow men and women to share dormitory rooms.

College officials said they expect few students will take the college up on its offer so that boyfriends and girlfriends can sleep together. Only about five of the 134 apartments are expected to be rented next fall by mixed-gender groups, officials said.

Killian Kroell, a member of the Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Alliance, said gay students frequently prefer to share housing with someone of the opposite sex, but typical college housing regulations prevent such arrangements on campus.

“No one forces you to live with someone of the opposite sex,” Kroell said. “You are sometimes forced to live with someone of the same sex.”

Haverford already has some of the most liberal campus housing rules in the region, including some dorms with coed bathrooms and groups of one-person bedrooms that share communal living areas.

“In the situation we have now, where you're exposed to sharing a bathroom with guys, it’s very normal after a year of doing it,” said Kristen Watson, a freshman.

Hundreds rally against insert in campus newspaper

ST. CLOUD, Minn. (AP) — About 500 people rallied at St. Cloud State University on Wednesday against a recent 24-page insert in the campus newspaper that called the Holocaust a hoax.

“The Revisionist” was published as a paid insert last Thursday in the University Chronicle.

Jill Madsen, president of the Jewish Student Association, said the campus cannot be silent against such publications and mistruths.

Dozens of speakers at the nearly two-hour rally, sponsored by the Center for Holocaust and Genocide Education, expressed support of Jewish members of the campus community and outrage at the publication of the insert.

The newspaper’s faculty adviser, Michael Vadnie, said the newspaper was not told the full nature of the insert. He said the situation evolved into a “teaching moment” for the newspaper staff and university students on First Amendment and Holocaust issues.

The ad was placed by California writer Bradley R. Smith, who frequently tries to run similar ads in student newspapers around the country claiming the Holocaust didn’t happen. His ad has run in a number of student newspapers, while many other student papers have rejected it.

Watson plans to live with freshman Johanna Francis and sophomore Gavin Imperato; the friends from Haverford’s track teams are one of the few groups who Doan said she expected to opt for a coed apartment.

Other schools in the area take a much more cautious approach. Nearby Bryn Mawr, for example, still has an all-female enrollment. And Villanova University has all-male floors and all-female floors in its dormitories.

“I think there’s privacy issues (with coed housing), there’s developmental issues, there’s educational issues,” said Christine Lysionek, who is in charge of Villanova’s dormitories. “We’re certainly not where Haverford is, nor would we ever want to be.”

Enroll Now!
Earth Semester or Universe Semester
September - December 2000
Four Summer Programs Offered
A total immersion experience
Environmental science in Arizona
16 Ivy League credits - Financial aid available
www.bio2.edu - 800-992-4603 - email: arizona@bio2.edu