Benes »} POR’ . ig IM | Wednesday, December 6, 2000

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL ROUND-UP

November 18, 2000
Davidson 62 Jacksonville 46
--Mike Anderson--

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Davidson captured its first season-opening victory in five years with a runaway 62-46 win over the Jacksonville University Dolphins. Ashley Hallsted—a freshman point guard from San Mateo, Calif.—became just the first freshman to start on opening day since Kerry Brown in 1995, and she made the most of it. Hallsted turned in a strong effort, exhibiting terrific poise at the point and unyielding defensive intensity. The 5-6 freshman point guard accrued 15 points on 6-10 shooting. Junior guard Janna Magette had a most impressive line on the night—scoring 19 points, knocking down 7 rebounds, grabbing 6 steals, and dishing out 4 assists. Kim Taylor, a senior center from Portsmouth, R.I., controlled a game-best 10 rebounds on the night, helping the Wildcats to a 51-44 rebounding advantage on the night. After a sloppy first half marked by 17 turnovers, the Wildcats settled in for the second half, coughing up just five turnovers in the second frame. “I think a lot of it was from jitters, but it was also just the way Jacksonville was playing,” said assistant coach Jennifer Roos. “It was a topsy-turvy first half.” Davidson carried a 31-24 lead into the halftime locker room, but a 12-2 run to open the second half effectively put the game away. Senior guard JoAnne Hassel started in front of her hometown crowd. “She just played great,” said Hallsted. “She came in and gave us a lot of energy and brought some outstanding defensive intensity to the court.” Hassel finished the game with a pair of field goals, a pair of rebounds, a pair of assists, and a pair of steals.

November 20, 2000
Davidson 60 Stetson 76
--Mike Anderson--

DeLAND, Fla.—The Wildcats closed out their Florida trip on a sour note, dropping an unsightly contest to the Stetson Hatters at the Edmunds Center. Davidson escaped with a 26-25 lead at the end of the first half, but dissolved in the second frame—shooting a paltry 32% from the floor and coughing up 28 turnovers, eventuating in a 76-60 final score. “It was a frustrating night,” said Kim Taylor. “We didn’t hold them off the boards and we couldn’t get our offense going.” The evening brought a continuing string of bad luck for the Wildcats’ black away uniforms—the ‘Cats were sporting their blacks tonight for the first time since a disparaging 1997 road trip to Michigan yielded a pair of unspeakable defeats to vastly-outgunned D-II opposition. Kelly Copland was a lone bright spot on the night, snagging a team-high eight rebounds and pitching in ten points off the bench. “Copland turned in her best effort over her three-year career,” said head coach John Filar. “She just played her heart out and gave us everything we needed from her.” The loss evened Davidson’s record to 1-1 heading into conference play.

November 27, 2000
Davidson 52 Charleston 69
--Mike Anderson--

The conference campaign got off to a rocky start last Monday night in Charleston’s Kresse Arena, as Davidson dropped an unsightly contest to the College of Charleston, 69-52. Charleston pounced to a quick ten-point lead and inflated their advantage to 20 by the end of the first half. But the Wildcats rallied their troops at the half and came out strong in the second period—outscoring the Cougars 28-25 and holding CofC shooters to a paltry 16% accuracy mark from the field. Coach John Filar employed a young starting lineup at Charleston—his five starters on the night had but four conference starts in their combined careers. “We had a lot of people get their feet wet last night,” said assistant coach Claire Gardin. “And we saw some positive things, some people really stepped up.” Chief among them—Meghan Bryant, a 6-3 local product out of North Mecklenburg High. Bryant scored 15 points off the bench, 12 of them coming in the first half alone. Her 11 rebounds gave her a double-double in her first-ever conference game. Bryant also tied a program record for blocked shots in a single game—her six swats matched Jennie Vanlenberghe’s record set in 1996. “Meghan Bryant stepped up big,” Gardin said. “She did all the things we thought she could do.” Kelly Copland was another key performer on the night—grabbing seven rebounds and doling out four assists in her second-ever start. The contest was, for all intents and purposes, decided at the charity stripe—though each team committed 15 fouls, Charleston earned 21 points at the line while Davidson managed buttwo. @ Women’s basketball team in Jacksonville. 

November 29, 2000
Gardner-Webb 59
Davidson 70

--Press Release--

DAVIDSON, N.C. -- Junior Leah Uhernik scored a career-high 23 points to lead a trio of Wildcats in double figures as Davidson downed Gardner-Webb 70-59 in women’s college basketball action Wednesday night at Belk Arena. It was the home opener for the Wildcats. In addition to the 23 points from Uhernik (Freedom, Pa.), Davidson (2-2) got double-digit scoring from freshman Ashley Hallsted (San Mateo, Calif.) and freshman Meghan Bryant (Huntersville, N.C.) with 11 points. Gardner-Webb (1-3) was led by Morgan Gourdine with 14 points while Angela Thornton led all rebounders with 14.

Uhernik got the scoring underway with a layup only 13 seconds into action. The Lady Bulldogs answered back and eventually took an early 8-5 lead with 16:50 left in the half. Junior guard Janna Magette (Birmingham, Ala.) tied the score at eight at the 15:49 mark of the first period on a three-point basket. The three-pointer was the 100th of her Davidson career. Freshman forward Robyn Flewelling (Okemos, Mich.) put the Wildcats up for good on a jump shot with just under 12 minutes to play in the first half of action.

The Wildcats and particularly Uhernik came out on fire in the second half. Uhernik scored the first five points of the half and extended the lead to nine, 38-29, in favor of Davidson. Bryant gave the Cats the largest lead of the game, 50-36, with 14:17 left as she hit her second straight jump shot. Gardner-Webb reeled off an 18-5 run over the next six minutes of play to cut the once comfortable Wildcat lead to just one point, 55-54. The Wildcats took full advantage of the charity stripe over the final seven minutes, seeing Davidson head to the line 14 times and converting 10 of those opportunities.

Davidson made 50.0 percent of its shots (24-48) on the night compared with only 34.3 percent (23-67) for the Lady Bulldogs. Davidson made 17 free throws on the evening with Gardner-Webb taking only eight. Gardner-Webb did hold a 13-rebound advantage over Davidson, including 23 offensive rebounds.

December 2, 2000
Davidson 70
Butler 40

--Mike Anderson--

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Perhaps it was the karma of recent graduates Jen O’Brien and Meagan Gleason who were in attendance. Freshman Robyn Flewelling stalks a ball-handler. Perhaps it was the large contingency of Wildcat fans in the stands to cheer on local product Kim Taylor. Or perhaps this team gained a season-altering confidence from their decisive victory over Gardner-Webb last Wednesday. Whatever the reason, this Wildcat squad caught fire in the opening round of the BankRI Brown Classic to upend tournament favorite Butler University 70-40 here in the Williams Gymnasium on Sunday.

Junior small forward Kelly Copland keyed the Wildcat assault on both ends of the floor—leading all players with 15 points, ten rebounds (five offensive and five defensive), and three steals. 

“Kelly Copland is playing with the most confidence she’s ever had since being here at Davidson,” said head coach John Filar. “She’s doing so many little things—she played fantastically at both ends of the court.”

Copland single-handedly shifted the momentum of the game late in the first half. After Butler jumped out to a quick 9-2 lead, Davidson evened the score and the teams stayed neck-and-neck throughout much of the first frame. Until, with 2:57 to play, Copland came up with a clutch steal to facilitate a Meghan Bryant three-point play on the other end of the court, giving the ‘Cats their first lead of the night—and the only one they would need. The ‘Cats would close the half with a 12-2 run, punctuated by a decisive Copland rejection to sink Butler's spirits going into the halftime locker room.

“She became a real spark for us defensively,” Filar said.

The second half was more of the same—a stifling Wildcat defense held Butler to a thin 20.7% shooting from the floor in the second half. Davidson would outscore Butler 40-19 in the second period to earn the first-round victory. Four different Wildcats scored in double digits—Copland (15), Hallsted (13), Magette (13), and Bryant (10). The ‘Cats also broke the 70% plateau from the free-throw line for the first time all year—thanks in large part to perfect shooting from Kim Taylor (2-2), Hallsted (4-4), and a solid 7-9 from Copland.

The 30-point margin marked Davidson’s largest spread since pummeling the University of the South at Belk Arena 89-41 in 1998. In the day’s other action, Canisius College upset host Brown University 81-70 behind Shauna Geronzin’s 29 points and 15 rebounds.