e® H U Sees ft § R S D A oy, World championship soccer comes to Davidson

USA Soccer, from page 1.

Although the game got off to a slow start—the U.S. didn’t take a shot on goal until the 15th minute—once
Christie Welsh scored the first goal for the U.S., the team’s momentum snowballed. After having one shot rejected by Iceland
goalkeeper Thora Helgadottir in the 34th minute, Welsh returned only three minutes later to deposit a shot thanks to an
assist by Tiffeny Milbrett. This one Helgadottir couldn’t stop. Welsh and Milbrett teamed again in the 43rd minute to send
the U.S. to the intermission with a 2-0 advantage.

“Christie Welsh obviously competed today,” said Heinrichs. “In Portugal, she was a little bit hesitant and tried to think too
much. Today, she had a great balance between competing and being thoughtful with her checking, the timing of runs, and
playing balls cleanly.”

Returning from halftime, the U.S. showed no signs of cooling off as Danielle Slaton threaded a pass to Aly Wagner
positioned just outside the top of the box on the right side. Wagner, in the 53rd minute, lined a shot
into the back left corner of the goal, an arm’s length out of Helgadottir’s reach. Just two minutes later, another
American—Christie Pearce—joined the scoring assault as she powered a shot into the back of the net from eight yards out.
Unassisted and setting up right in front of the goal, Pearce used pure power to push the U.S. lead to
four, 4-0.

The Welsh-Milbrett team made another appearance in the 69th minute as Welsh received a cross from Milbrett and dribbled into
the box, drawing Helgadottir up. As Helgadottir went for the save, Welsh punched the ball past her and into the
goal for the United States’ fifth score. The U.S., playing a team with an average age of 20 years, continued
to overwhelm the Iceland squad, which could barely even gain possession.

And the entrance of star Mia Hamm in the 70th minute forced Iceland to adjust their defensive efforts again. “Even
with the score 7-0, when Mia came in Iceland stepped up their physical presence on her more so than they
were on other players,” said Heinrichs. The first ball to come Hamm’s way, the all-time international scoring leader sent into
the net, marking her 117th career goal. A pass from Kristine Lilly set Hamm up squarely in front of the
goal, and a juke to the right was all Hamm needed to pull Helgadottir out of the shooting lane. Goal
number six for the U.S., but the mayhem wouldn’t stop there. In the 77th minute, Lilly, about eight yards in
from the far sideline, kicked a floater that soared above Helgadottir’s head before hooking to the left and dropping just
inside the right end of the goal. Pearce capped the U.S. scoring with a goal in the 84th minute off
a pass from Danielle Slaton.

The U.S. played Iceland Saturday night at Ericsson Stadium in Charlotte and in a stark contrast to Wednesday’s performance did
not score a goal the entire game. The team had to settle for a 0-0 tie.

USA looks ahead to training camp after scoreless tie

Thirty players to vie for 18 spots on Olympic roster over the next five months

By Burcin Harbin
Sports Editor

CHARLOTTE—The U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team failed to score a goal Saturday night against Iceland at Ericsson Stadium. And now,
yes, the team is that much closer to striking gold in Sydney.

“I think we learn from this,” U.S. star Mia Hamm said. “Every opportunity you have to play an internationalgame, you
take as much experience out of it as you can. “If we get bogged down and take this disappointment through
training camp and into our next game, we won’t win the Olympics. We hope that the maturity of the team
will get us through this.”

The team will head to San Diego this week to start its “residency camp,” a five-month training program to prepare
the team for the 2000 Olympics. And after playing a scoreless match Saturday night, the team knows what it has
to accomplish in camp if they want to capture the gold at the XXVII Olympiad.

“We'll go back and set another standard for ourselves and hopefully learn from the things we did well tonight,” said
Hamm. “Our finishing and sometimes lack of patience we’ll work on.”

Finishing was definitely a problem for the U.S. Saturday night as it took 19 shots but could not net a
goal. And it was especially disconcerting after having dominated the same Iceland team 8-0 just three days earlier in a
closed session.

“I think we had similar chances tonight but they just didn’t go in,” said Hamm. “We created a lot of
good opportunities but just didn’t put them away. Wednesday we did that.”

The inspired play of Iceland goalkeeper Thora Helgadottir, who gave up the eight scores Wednesday in Davidson, foiled every U.S.
scoring attempt Saturday, including a rocket off the foot of Brandi Chastain that a diving Helgadottir barely saved from the
bottom right corner of the goal.

But a 0-0 tie can help focus a team more than an 8-0 rout, which is what Hamm and others
hope will make the team’s training camp a success.

“We’re all excited about residency and getting the chance to work on the technical things that having such a huge
amount of time will allow us to do,” Hamm said.

The 30 players chosen for the U.S. residency camp will hone their skills through intensive training exercises and in the
20-22 games that the team will play before the Olympics. The team will spend just a total of five weeks
at its facility in San Diego; the rest of the five months will be spent traveling or on breaks.

Of the 30 players currently on the camp roster, only 18 will be selected by head coach April Heinrichs to
join the U.S. Women’s 2000 Olympic Team, which will defend its 1996 gold medal. Notable veterans from that 1996 team
such as Hamm, Chastain, Briana Scurry, and Kristine Lilly will be joined in camp by a crop of talented younger
players all eager for their first Olympic experience, including 17-year-old Alyssa Ramsey of Charlotte. Eight other teenagers will join Ramsey
in camp.

“I’m very much looking forward to working with the residency group so that we can focus our energy and attention
on these 30 players which are the ones that will be fighting for a position on the Olympic Team,” said
Heinrichs.

Said Hamm: “All of our success is built on hard work, on the fact that we don’t cut corners and
we won’t cut corners, and these young players want to work that hard. We’re a close group and we’re only
going to get closer. Everybody is ready to make an impact, both individually and as a team.”

Lauren Kenchington scored eight goals to lead Wildcat lacrosse to a 22-11 victory over the Ohio Bobcats.

Davidson Ultimate welcomes new frisbee team

BASEBALL
4/13 @ Winthrop 3:00 p.m.
4/18 @ South Carolina 7:00 p.m.

Men’s TENNIS
4/15 @ Elon 1:00 p.m.
4/16 Appalachian State 1:00 p.m.
4/17 @ Wofford 3:00 p.m.

LACROSSE
4/14 Vanderbilt* 7:00 p.m.
4/15 Denver* 2:00 p.m.

Women’s TENNIS
4/13 Appalachian State 3:00 p.m.
4/18 Wofford 3:00 p.m.

Boldface indicates home game
Italics indicate Southern Conference games
*at Nashville, Tenn.

volleyball beats Wake Forest pg. 11

Snow, yes snow, covers the diamond at App State pg. 10

Women’s basketball announces Class of 2004 pg. 11
