6 THE DAVIDSONIAN News Thursday, APRIL 20, 2000

KA fundraising continues despite inclement weather

LAUREN DANIEL
Staff Writer

The Kappa Alpha Order is in the midst of extensive fundraising for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, with an end goal of $8000. This past weekend was intended to be the principal time for fundraising activities with the Buck-A-Tuck Charity Auction on Friday night and the Saturday afternoon KArnival on the town green.

The auction on Friday “sold” KA brothers to the highest bidder. The winner received a brother’s time for four hours. A final total for the auction is not available as all the bidders have yet to pay. This is the second year that KA has conducted the auction and with increasing popularity they were able to raise more money this year. Last year the fraternity sent $1500 to MDA, and this year’s total was much higher.

“The auction was a lot of fun and a great fundraiser, I’m looking forward to having it for years to come,” comments KA brother and auction participant Kevin Dexter. “I was so impressed with the amount of money KA raised in just one night—and everyone had a blast doing it,” said Ashlee White.

Due to Saturday’s rain most of the KArnival’s events were postponed until Davidson’s Town Day on May 6th. The Nascar dome racing was one of the only events that took place in the shelter of the Outpost. The silent auction is planned for the Town Day, and with more than $3000 worth of merchandise to be auctioned off, organizers are hoping to bring in at least $1000. Cast Iron Filter was scheduled to play at the KArnival. KA is planning on having them perform this Wednesday night off the back porch of their house instead.

The money raised goes to support attendees of an MDA summer camp in June. The $8000 should pay for five cabins of campers; each cabin houses four campers. The money raised for MDA is kept track of nationally by KA chapters and last year the highest was about $5500. Davidson’s chapter is hoping to donate the most money this year. Organizer James Jenkins was happy to see all of their work pay off as their “fundraising efforts greatly exceeded their expectations.” The auction was a great success and the KArnival, which intended to bring many organizations on campus together, will continue to be a yearly event.

NAACP may stand alone in rejection of Senate’s Confederate flag

COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — The NAACP may stand alone in its push to continue the tourism boycott of South Carolina after the state Senate passed a bill to remove the Confederate flag from the Statehouse dome. The civil rights group’s biggest allies said Friday they’re ready to put the flag fight behind them.

“I think once South Carolina deals with the issue and has moved it from the Statehouse dome ... a boycott of South Carolina would not have an impact,” said Hunter Howard, president of the state Chamber of Commerce, which rallied the business community to call for the flag’s removal.

Columbia Mayor Bob Coble, whose lawsuit to remove the flag was dismissed after the Legislature gave itself sole authority to take the flag down, said he’s willing to work with the Senate bill that was approved Thursday. That plan would remove the Confederate flag from the House and Senate chambers and from the Statehouse dome. Under the proposal, a square Confederate battle flag would be placed about 15 feet behind the Confederate Soldier Monument at Main and Gervais streets, on a 20-foot pole.

“At some point, political reality dictates we have a solution that has a chance of working,” Coble said. “At this moment, I don’t see any other solution that can pass the Legislature.”

LA VECCHIA’S SEAFOOD GRILLE LAKE NORMAN NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS SEE OUR NEW LOCATION IN CORNELIUS (EXIT 28 — SHOPS ON THE GREEN) SCHEDULED TO OPEN AT THE

But South Carolina NAACP President James Gallman said the Senate’s bill exacerbates the problem. “The current bill does not address theIssue of sovereignty, it just moves the sovereignty to a different flag pole,” Gallman said. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People plans to consult with their allies Wednesday and gauge support for stepping up economic sanctions against the state.

“The purpose of the briefing is to discuss the latest development in the Confederate flag debate, review the probable elements of expanded economic sanctions, and gather specific input from you,” Gallman said in a letter to flag opponents.

Invitations also were sent to the government watchdog group Common Cause of South Carolina, but Director John Crangle said his group would support the Senate compromise.

“Our position, the Common Cause position, is that we endorse the Senate bill,” Crangle said. “We're going to argue that position at this meeting, which I’m sure is not going to be particularly welcome.”

Gov. Jim Hodges’ spokesman, Morton Brilliant, said the governor hoped the NAACP would delay any action.

“We’ve made considerable progress on ending the flag debate, and we hope that folks will wait until the bill is passed before reaching any conclusions,” Brilliant said. “Certainly, it’s a bill that a large coalition of people have gotten behind. It may not be everything one person wants, but it gives something to a lot of people.”

Senate Majority Leader John Land, D-Clarendon, said there wasn’t much the Senate could do about the NAACP’s plans to ratchet up the sanctions.

“They’ll just have to do what they have to do, just like we did what we had to do,” he said.

Land said the Senate was faced with a choice between allowing the banner to remain on the dome or moving it someplace that would draw enough support to pass legislation.

“I don’t think to let it fly was good for South Carolina,” he said.

The bill now goes to a House Judiciary subcommittee.

Professor loses bid to keep post after marijuana conviction

VICTORIA, British Columbia (AP) — A University of Victoria sociology professor convicted of growing marijuana in her suburban home three years ago has lost an appeal to keep her job.

The dismissal of Jean Veevers, who had been on the university staff since 1980, is effective immediately. Veevers had been suspended with pay since December of 1998, when university president David Strong recommended she be dismissed. Veevers, 56, could not be reached for comment Friday.

Strong said that the dismissal of a tenured professor from a university is “very uncommon.” Veevers pleaded guilty to charges of cultivating marijuana and possession of marijuana for the purpose of trafficking following a police raid on her home in April 1997. Officers seized nearly 19 pounds of marijuana and 122 marijuana plants from a set-up described as sophisticated by police. Veevers received a one-year conditional sentence, meaning it was served in her home.

The decision to finally dismiss Veevers from the university was made by a three-person arbitration panel. The panel report cites the “serious and willful misconduct” displayed by Veevers, and says the crimes to which she pleaded guilty “harmed the reputation and credibility of the university, and involved as active partners two persons who were actual or potential students.”

Veevers had taken a partial retirement package prior to her legal troubles and was working just over half time. With the loss of that position, she gives up $52,000 Canadian in annual salary.

“What a Great Experience!”

Learning the language. Meeting people. Coming face to face with history, art and architecture, culture, food, and fun.

UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM...

Small classes. Personal attention. Fully accredited — receive university credit. We provide great classes in intensive language, history, anthropology, art, business, economics, political science...

University Studies Abroad Consortium
University of Nevada MS/323
Reno, Nevada 89557
(775) 784-6569
E-mail: usac@unr.edu
http://usac.unr.edu

AUSTRALIA * BASQUE COUNTRY * CHILE * CHINA * COSTA RICA * DENMARK * ENGLAND * FRANCE * GERMANY * IRELAND * ISRAEL * ITALY * MALTA * NEW ZEALAND * SCOTLAND * SPAIN * THAILAND