By KRISTINE HARRINGTON Special Contributor

The 2000 presidential election is about more than just who is elected in November. It is about the future of
citizens’ rights and freedoms. A Supreme Court Justice is typically appointed every two years. However, there hasn’t been a new
justice in six. That means that the next president will likely appoint at least two, maybe even three or four
justices during his first term of office. Justice John Paul Stevens, appointed by Gerald Ford, will turn 80 this year.
Picked by Ronald Reagan, Sandra Day O’Connor will turn 70. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, appointed by President Clinton, is 67
and battling cancer. Chief Justice William Rehnquist, named to the Court by Richard Nixon, is 75.

George W. Bush has “vowed” not to use a litmus test in choosing justices if he is elected, meaning he
will not review potential justices’ records on specific issues before recommending them for appointment. However, he has also repeatedly said
that his ideal choices would be modeled after Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, two of the most right-wing justices ever
to serve on the bench. Replacing current Justices Stevens, O’Connor and/or Ginsburg with extremist ideologues would put our rights and
freedoms in considerable jeopardy for years to come. Following is a brief examination of examples of key cases in which
Scalia and Thomas dissented, and what our country could look like if the dangerous Scalia-Thomas minority becomes the Supreme Court’s
majority.

Voting Rights
Both justices support narrowing the Voting Rights Act, eliminating protection against discrimination in candidate eligibility rules, redistricting plans, and other
practices that covertly deny voting rights to minorities.

Gender Discrimination
A Scalia-Thomas court would allow sex discrimination in the jury selection process, assuming that individuals would be biased simply because
of their gender. It would also narrow the circumstances in which employers could be held responsible for sexual harassment in
the workplace and would virtually eliminate protection for public school students against harassment by other students.

Racial Discrimination
Justice Thomas argued that the Supreme Court erred in Brown v. Board of Education (1954) when it considered evidence of
the social and psychological harm suffered by black schoolchildren as a result of segregation.

Discrimination Against People With Disabilities
Both Scalia and Thomas joined Chief Justice William Rehnquist’s partial dissent in Bragdon v. Abbott (1998), which ultimately ruled that
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prevents discrimination against asymptomatic individuals infected with the AIDS virus (it would only take
one more like-minded justice to overturn this decision). In 1999 Justice Thomas wrote a dissent arguing that a school district
could deny nursing services that would enable a young quadriplegic boy to attend school.

Discrimination Against Gays and Lesbians
The addition of two more justices like Scalia and Thomas would overturn the Supreme Court’s decision in Romer v. Evans
(1996), which struck down a Colorado provision that barred local governments from creating laws which protected individuals from discrimination based
on sexual orientation. A Scalia-Thomas court could make it illegal to provide even basic anti-discrimination protection for gay men and
lesbians.

Reproductive Freedom and Privacy Rights
Only two more justices appointed in the Scalia-Thomas mold would overturn Roe v. Wade and eliminate freedom of choice and
authorize individual states to ban abortion, without exception. They both claim that the Constitution does not protect any right of
privacy concerning reproduction and would support state laws banning the sale or use of contraceptives. In his opinion in Webster
v. Reproductive Health Services (1989), Scalia had the gall to suggest that one good reason to overturn Roe v. Wade
is to decrease the apparently inconvenient number of letters and demonstrations targeted at the Supreme Court regarding the abortion issue.

Religious Coercion
If Scalia and Thomas gain two more allies on the Supreme Court, they could eliminate a fundamental, Constitutional principle that
the government must stay neutral in regards to religion. This would legalize prayer at public venues, such as graduations, teaching
of religious creationism in science classes, and forced taxpayer funding of religion through such means as vouchers.

Nader and Buchanan agree on
By Eun-Kyung Kim Associated Press Writer

Ralph Nader and Pat Buchanan don’t agree on much, but they’re standing together in contending they both should be included
in the presidential debates. Both plan to be in Boston for the first debate Tuesday. However, they will be outsiders
looking in, barred from a national forum that could have given their flagging third-party campaigns a boost. Buchanan, the Reform
Party candidate, and Green Party nominee Nader fell far short of the 15 percent support they needed in major polls,
as required by the sponsoring bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates. As one caller to CNN’s “Larry King Live” put it:
“Give up, Mr. Buchanan.” “I never give up, young lady,” Buchanan replied, blaming a lack of money, sparse media coverage
and getting barred from the debates as killing his campaign’s chances. Buchanan also said Bush wouldn’t want him standing on
the same stage in debates. “Mr. Bush has abandoned conservatives. That convention was an insult to Reaganism,” he said, referring
to the Republican National Convention and the former GOP president. Nader, appearing on the show’s second half, also had harsh
words for Gore. He said that even if he wasn’t running for president, “no way” would he vote for Gore.
Gore has spent “eight years on his knees to big business,” Nader said. Nader also urged people to contact the
television networks and the debate commission to push for inclusion of the third-party candidates because “Bush and Gore can’t say
no to them.” “If there’s a massive, peaceful demonstration tomorrow in Boston where the whole

Justice in Jeopardy: Scalia-Thomas Court would pose threat to hard-won rights

Free Speech and Censorship
Scalia and Thomas would allow more direct government restrictions on political expression, permit increased government limits on artistic speech and
press-related freedoms, and would support eliminating all First Amendment protection in programs that are funded by the government.

Consumer and Worker Protection
A Scalia-Thomas Supreme Court would protect cigaretteHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Companies from consumer lawsuits and would also allow state and local governments to fire workers for belonging to the “wrong”
political party. Money and Politics. Scalia and Thomas support abolishing limits on campaign financing, which are necessary to prevent corruption
and to increase politicians’ accountability. Also, in 1992 Scalia dissented from a ruling that protected citizens’ rights to form new
political parties. No matter who is elected come November, the new president’s legacy of Supreme Court appointments in years to
come will live on. This is why it is crucial that we keep in mind this crucial, but little-known issue
when it comes time to mark our ballots. A vote for George W. Bush means much more than a vote
for his policies, if you agree with them. A vote for George W. equals a vote for setting our country
decades back and stripping away the precious freedoms that we all have come to value!

Supreme Court Justices must respect Constitution, rights of states
By Dan Gibson
Special Contributor

Some would argue that the judicial branch of our federal government has gone from palace guard to crowned king over
the past several decades, hailing itself as the single most powerful institution in our nation. They would be right. Judicial
activism and overt disregard for the fundamental principles of our Constitution should have many voters concerned. Very concerned. No one
will dispute that the next president will significantly influence the disposition of the court for the next generation. George W.
Bush ought to be that president.

Lest the reader berate me for avoiding the abortion issue, I turn to it first. Bush has made it clear,
despite the fear-mongering attacks of the Gore machine, that abortion will not serve as a litmus test for his appointments.
No one disputes Bush’s unwillingness to subject the lives of the unborn child to mere convenience, but he stands firmly
on the notion that the composition of the Supreme Court ought to rest on far greater principles than a potential
justice’s convictions on any single issue. Thus, the question remains, what should that potential justice look like?

Above all, the Constitution requires a justice who respects the integrity of the federalist system. As judicial activism renders federalization,
the rights of states and local communities are eroded to little more than quaint history lessons. Our nation’s founders saw
the need for the dispersion of power and the value of states as checks against the very centralization we fought
the American Revolution to escape. Label the Bush court old-fashioned or unprogressive if you must, but to suggest anything other
than adherence to the blueprint set forth by our founding fathers is unwise. Dare we call it “risky?”

Al Gore offers a starkly different picture. A strong proponent of judicial activism, Gore seeks to extend the reach of
the already flailing arm of the judiciary. What is at stake? The ability of citizens to lead their own lives
without the iron fist of unelected officials revising the decisions made by popularly elected assemblies across the nation. Or have
we forgotten the value of self-governance, which is at the heart of everything American? The issues of policy would be
rendered irrelevant at the hands of a Gore court, as legislation would become little more than suggestions for the imperial
appointees. And so consider whichever issue strikes a chord with you: George W. Bush thinks that decision should be left
to the elected bodies with whom that authority rests. Should we, as Al Gore believes, concede the principles of our
Constitution to a handful of judicial appointees, eager to run people’s lives from Washington? Mr. Gore claims he stands for
the people and not the powerful. Care to revise your statement, sir?

One thing: Let us in debates world is watching, maybe Al Gore and George W. Bush will be shamed into
at least having one debate with a four-way discussion of important issues that they are just celipstaieyy discarding,” he said.
Nader and Buchanan have failed to climb out of the single digits in recent national surveys. These same polls, however,
show that a third or more would like to see a four-way debate, with Buchanan and Nader joining Democrat Al
Gore and Republican George W. Bush. The presidential debates sponsored by the commission—the others are scheduled for Oct. 11 in
Winston-Salem, N.C., and Oct. 17 in St. Louis—have the potential to reach millions of voters and could be crucial in
attracting people who might not be swayed through traditional campaigning. “If you don’t get on national television, you don’t reach
the voters, and if you don’t get in the debates, you don’t reach the voters,” Nader said.

Both Buchanan and Nader have used former wrestler Jesse Ventura to show how debates can influence elections. Ventura barely mustered
10 percent in Minnesota polls before participating in candidate debates in the gubernatorial election, which he won in 1998. Either
Bush or Gore could have pushed to include minor party candidates in the debates. They also could have pressed the
major television networks to hold a four-way discussion, but in a race as close as theirs, “they want to go
one-on-one against each other and not have a lot of distraction from third or fourth party candidates who might steal
their votes,” said Cal Jillson, a Southern Methodist University political science professor.

Republicans learned their lesson in 1992, when Ross Perot got to debate Bill Clinton and President Bush. Perot ultimately earned
19 percent of the vote that November—possibly drawing enough GOP votes to cost Bush the election, many Republicans believe. While
neither Nader nor Buchanan planned to crash Tuesday’s event, both will make themselves available to reporters before, during and after
to provide their analysis. The two also let protesters in Boston raise the fuss for them. About 30 people, some
dressed in colonial garb and tri-cornered hats, boarded the Boston Tea Party ship Monday and dumped televisions into the Harbor.
Taped to the TV sets were the names of the networks and the Democratic and Republican parties.
