By Mark Copy Special Contributor

“We need to pursue the policy of ‘Forward Engagement’ — addressing problems early in their development, before they become crises; addressing them as close to the source of the problem as possible; and having the forces and resources to deal with those threats as soon after their emergence as possible.”

This statement by Democratic presidential nominee Al Gore concisely summarizes his vision for American foreign policy over the next eight years. Gore believes his “Forward Engagement” agenda will guide the United States as we deal with old and new threats while maintaining the peace and security that arises from America’s leadership and commitment in global affairs.

Over the past eight years, Vice President Gore has been actively involved in forming American policy during one of the most historic presidencies in modern history. Significant advances in the Middle East process, the Good Friday Accord in Northern Ireland, the Dayton Peace Accord for Bosnia, and leadership in a strengthened, expanded NATO all are indicative of Gore’s vision for, and ability in, foreign policy affairs.

Gore has stated, “while the old threats persist, there are new things under the sun—new forces arising that now or soon will challenge our international order, raising issues of peace and war.” To prepare for these challenges, Gore has several goals.

First, a Gore administration will make the strongest military the world has ever seen even stronger. While prepared for any type of conventional military action, our armed forces must continue to prepare for new types of missions as new threats emerge. To do this, Gore will ensure that America’s armed forces will have the most advanced weaponry, intelligence capabilities, and information systems in the world. Based on his experiences in Vietnam, Gore understands the importance of our armed forces and will continue a movement to compensate our soldiers and their families with the salaries they really deserve.

Second, Gore will continue to promote peace initiatives begun during the Clinton administration. In addition to peace in the Middle East, Ireland, and the Balkans, Gore is determined to bring a permanent end to conflicts between Armenia and Azerbaijan as well as strengthen US ties with Armenia. Also, creating a dialogue between former enemies in Latin America, Africa, the Koreas, China, and Taiwan will encourage international stability.

“Forward Engagement” will continue to protect the US and other nations from nuclear threats. The two newest nuclear powers, India and Pakistan, as well as potential nuclear powers such as Iraq, must be monitored by an administration with experience. Gore will continue to cut the nuclear stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction while still protecting the nation with a limited national missile defense system that actually works.

Already preparing for new threats, Gore also states, “[W]e must engage Russia and China, not pretend we can turn our backs on them. The greatest threat to America is not the strength of Russia and China, but their weakness.” A Gore administration will continue to build cooperation with both former enemies that would strengthen trade, the environment, and human rights for all nations involved.

Finally, “Forward Engagement” will confront the issues that cause instability across the globe. Technology is expanding at an unprecedented rate, causing once localized terrorism, disease, and ecological disturbances to now threaten nations across the world.

continued on oppositePage re’s vision: Forward Engagement

Bush seeks restoration of US prestige and power

By Travis Lee
Special Contributor

In 1992, the Clinton/Gore administration entered the White House in a time of global upheaval and transition. The world was changing from an ideologically polarized “Cold War” environment to a splintered and increasingly conflictual one. As the global climate heated up and the world became a more dangerous place, the power of the United States began to wane.

For the last eight years, American prestige has been bruised by numerous defeats and failed, directionless foreign escapades. Morale in the military has plummeted as US forces have seen their budget cut but their number of deployments increased. With Democrats in the White House, segments of the US Army are unprepared for battle, foreign governments steal America’s most vital nuclear secrets, and dangerous rogue nations are permitted to develop weapons of mass destruction without a national missile defense plan in place.

Governor George W. Bush seeks to change all this. He intends to bring America back to its pre-Clinton/Gore prestige and has set specific goals that will help America reclaim a strong national defense and forge a sound, purposeful foreign policy. Above all, Governor Bush wishes to rebuild the bond of trust with the armed forces that has been abused and all but forgotten under Clinton/Gore. He will renew the respect that the president must have for America’s soldiers and will ensure that the civilians they protect do the same.

Bush aims to do this by maintaining the “traditions and culture” of the US military. This means that wars will be waged by soldiers, not politicians. They will be fought on the grounds of national interest, not due to political reasons. Rebuilding trust will be assisted by Governor Bush’s plan to increase the military pay raise to $1 billion dollars a year so that those soldiers forced onto food stamps by the Clinton/Gore Administration may become independent of government assistance and may be proud to serve.

The morale of those in uniform must be high if they are to effectively serve the nation and if they are to respect themselves. Under the past administration, high morale has been nearly nonexistent. This was due, in part, to the seemingly frivolous foreign policy developed by his administration, one characterized by cut funding and increased deployment, as is evident in the unprepared status of two of the US Army’s divisions.

In the last eight years, US forces have been carelessly flung about the globe while spending on defense has been cut to its lowest levels in over half a century. American soldiers have been treated as though they were expendable “global cops.” If this ill treatment were not enough, they were often stranded as exit strategies were hastily and sloppily formulated. This lack of direction and lack of respect for American armed forces will not typify a Bush foreign policy.

On the contrary, a Bush foreign policy will be marked by a return to policies that are implemented with only the most vital American interests in mind. He seeks a refocusing of our national priorities. This starts with an increase in defensive spending so that research and development branches of the Pentagon and the Intelligence Community are able to keep the US armed forces technologically superior.

continued on opposite page