THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Award recognizes Ramirez’s leadership in undergraduate research

Press RELEASE

Davidson College senior Jennie Hillmann recalls her first, vivid impression of Julio Ramirez, a psychology professor recently named as one
of two winners of a national award from the Council on Undergraduate Research (CUR). On the first day of Hillmann’s
introductory neuroscience class with Ramirez, which proved to be the initial stepping stone for her three years of laboratory research
with him, Ramirez showed a film of actor Christopher Reeve.

“This is why we work on neuroscience,” Ramirez told the class as they watched an account of Reeve’s tumble from
a horse into a life of paralysis. “This is what we’re working to understand and help.” Hillmann said, “It was
obvious from the beginning that he thinks this is a noble cause.”

Ramirez, a 13-year faculty member at Davidson who holds the college’s first R. Stuart Dickson Professorship, has received one of
the two first-ever CUR Fellows Awards. The award recognizes his success in developing an undergraduate research lab to investigate recovery
of function after central nervous system injury, with an emphasis on recovery from Alzheimer’s disease. The CUR’s awardees have outstanding
records of establishing laboratory programs, obtaining funding for their work and for their students, and publishing research findings in conjunction
with undergraduate coauthors.

The award serves as another validation of the new pedagogy in science instruction at Davidson, a combination of teaching and
research that Ramirez calls “tearching.” In addition to classroom instruction and traditional lab exercises, many students assist professors with authentic
research projects. It establishes a new relationship between students and professors as they work cooperatively to uncover new knowledge. Ramirez
believes this type of work instills in students the three “C’s” - critical thinking, creative thinking, and compassionate thinking. It
also gives them experience at the undergraduate level that proves valuable in applying for graduate schools, jobs, and grants of
their own. This year alone, the National Science Foundation gave biology research awards to a current Davidson senior, Will White,
and a recent graduate, Ken Howard.

Since his arrival at Davidson in 1986, Ramirez has mentored a total of 85 undergraduate students and published 19 research
papers - nine with undergraduate coauthors. His research collaborative educational efforts with other Davidson faculty have received more than $2
million in grants to support biomedical research and education at Davidson from the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation,
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and the Pew Charitable Trusts. In 1989, Ramirez was named North Carolina Professor of the Year
and also was honored as a National Gold Medal Professor of the Year.

During the first 10 years of his research, Ramirez aimed at discovering if acceleration of neuronal “sprouting” between nerve cells
in the hippocampus could promote recovery of memory function in rats after brain damage. The proof of that hypothesis was
published in papers co-authored by several students in two prestigious journals - a 1996 edition of the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences and a 1999 edition of the Journal of Neuroscience.

Ramirez commented, “I often get more pleasure in the success of my student researchers than in the research itself... much
like a parent, I suppose!” He has watched with pride as his undergraduate researchers have gone on from Davidson to
earn Ph.D.s and M.D.s in neuroscience and related fields. But he also gains satisfaction from being part of an army
of researchers worldwide who have learned more about the workings of the central nervous system in the past two decades
than in all of previous history.

“It’s a wonderfully vibrant area in which to work,” Ramirez said. “The great part about science is that every answer
you discover also reveals a whole new set of questions to pursue.” He and his current student researchers are working
through a grant from the National Science Foundation and a private biotechnology firm to experiment on pharmacological interventions to...

CROP makes changes

Press RELEASE
By Carrie Arthur

Along with the annual shift in its leadership, CROP, the Christian Rural Overseas Program, is gaining a wider focus. Coordinators
Chris Cho and Carrie Arthur want the organization to encompass more than the weekly CROP lunches and annual fall CROP
walk, even though...They recognize the value of both functions. The renewed vision began with a new mission for the hunger
organization. CROP has dedicated itself to promoting campus-wide awareness of hunger and poverty on a local, national, and global level.
The coordinators want every student to know at least one fact about hunger by the end of the semester. Because
education alone is not enough, the organization will provide opportunities for students to address these concerns. The organization sees the
need for not only the alleviation of current suffering but also efforts to resolve underlying causes. CROP will serve as
a vessel for both service projects and activism. While activism will generally involve writing letters to support legislation, Cho and
other interested students are attending a march in Washington, DC on April 7-9. Her group will support Jubilee 2000, for
which the richest nations are erasing the debt of the fifty poorest nations. Finally, the organization will continue to raise
funds. Currently, the proceeds from CROP lunch go to Loaves and Fishes, which provides hunger relief in Davidson and Charlotte.
The CROP walk also raises funds to help diminish hunger. In keeping with this outlook, CROP and other campus poverty
organizations are planning a hunger and poverty awareness week for April 26-May 2. Plans for an Oxfam dinner and other
events are currently underway. Anyone interested in helping these efforts is encouraged to email Cho or Arthur at chcho and
caarthur. Also, all are invited to attend CROP lunch every Thursday from 11:45 to 1:30 in the 900 Room.

Sophomore Reggie McKoy is one of eight students who currently spends at least 10 hours per week in Ramirez’s lab.
McKoy said, “I feel like I’m learning a lot more in here than in lectures.” His classmate, Stephanie Courchesne, added,
“This is the first time I’ve ever done original research. It’s not like we’re practicing something, we’re actually doing it.
That’s sort of terrifying, but incredible at the same time!” The lab is busy every weekday, and often on weekends.
Two recent graduates, Charlotte White and Andy Preston, work on the project full-time and serve as the chief lab technicians,
providing the ongoing direction for current students. Ramirez cultivates an atmosphere of camaraderie in the lab, encouraging students to play
music, joking with them when he drops by, urging them to go out together on social occasions, and inviting them
to dinner at his house. It’s a laid-back atmosphere, but the science is strictly rigorous. “He has really high expectations
of students and pushes us hard,” said Hillmann. “But we have a lot of fun together.” Students learn lab techniques
and assume responsibility that most young scientists don’t encounter before graduate school. Hillman, whose independent study project on the electrophysiology
of lesion-induced regeneration will probably be published in a scientific journal, said, “In talking with people in Ph.D. programs, I
hear that I’m doing the same type of work they’ve only now begun to do, and that they never had
these opportunities as undergraduates. Most undergraduates can only hope to be a professor’s assistant, but in my thesis work with
Dr. Ramirez I’ve developed my own project and am responsible for the experimentation and analysis.” The payoff for Ramirez is
seeing students get excited about the scientific process, and achieve success in their pursuit of further education in the field.
McKoy wants to do research at the National Institute of Health, then enter medical school. Hillman wants to follow Ramirez’s
career footsteps closely, earning her Ph.D. and then “teaching” at an undergraduate college. Courchesne said simply, “I want to do
research for the rest of my life.” The CUR will present its awards to Ramirez and the other winner, Mary
Allen, chair of the biology department at Wellesley College, at the Eighth National CUR Conference on June 22. Over the
past 25 years, CUR has championed collaborative research among undergraduates and their faculty mentors. CUR conferences, publications, and mentoring activities
help faculty members establish and sustain research programs at primarily undergraduate institutions nationwide.

SAFE SEX ON THE BEACH
DATE: APRIL 5TH, 2000
TIME: 11-2 PM
LOCATION: VAIL/BELK DORM AREA, (OUTSIDE OF CAFETERIA)

County ABC Board
Roundtrip airfare to Charlotte, NC...$375.00
