6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

NEWS

THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000

Festival of Smiles kicks off Spring Frolics

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Although Saturday’s Spring Frolics plans were altered due to inclement weather, Friday’s “Festival of Smiles” occurred as planned. The festival
benefited Operation Smile, which provides children with free corrective surgeries to address problems such as cleft palates and cleft lips.

Throughout Friday afternoon and early evening, student and faculty acts performed on Patterson Court. Although the public was welcome to
attend the event free of charge, purchased tickets were necessary to enjoy the food, games, and raffles sponsored by various
student groups. Organizations represented included Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Catholic Campus Ministries, the co-ed eating house, and the Kappa Sigma
fraternity.

Ten different performers and bands were featured during the four and a half hour event, including Writing in the Grey,
The Four Coursemen, and a band featuring Mark DiCristina and Dave Tolley. The Generals and the Delilahs also performed.

Profits are estimated at $790, not including expected donations from the Patterson Court houses. The money raised exceeded expectations as
Operation Smile member, freshman Adam Dutko, said that the group had hoped to raise enough to finance one operation, which
costs $760.

Operation Smile is an international organization with fundraising chapters in many high schools and colleges, including UNC-Charlotte. The Davidson chapter
was started this year by senior Zannah Bozone and has approximately 40 members.

Currently, the group is concentrating on fundraising efforts, but as Dutko comments, “We hope to grow enough so that eventually
we are able to send Davidson students to accompany the doctors who perform these surgeries. Students traveling with Operation Smile
interact with the children, observe the operation, and are occasionally able to actually assist with it.”

The group also hopes to make Festival of Smiles an annual event. Students interested in becoming involved with Operation Smile
should contact Zannah Bozone.

Presidents. from page 1.

faculty was ultimately removed under Spencer.

Former President Kuykendall attended Davidson during a time in which the college welcomed its first female faculty member and the
academic bowl team was better known than the basketball team. Kuykendall succeeded Spencer in 1983.

“The presidency was an opportunity to give something back and be engaged with something I knew and loved,” said Kuykendall.

Current President Bobby Vagt, who accepted the presidency from Kuykendall in 1997, attended Davidson during the Civil Rights movement and
the Vietnam War. As Vagt stated, “this town wasn’t a seething hotbed for race or political issues,” yet, as Vagt
noted, students attended Martin Luther King’s March on Washington, while ROTC cadets were hit with water balloons while performing drills.

The presidents also addressed changes in the admissions policy over their administrations.

“During the 1950s Davidson was not recruiting like we are today,” Spencer said.

Junior resident advisor, Carrie Porath in conjunction with the Residence Life Office, organized the forum for the second consecutive year.
This was the first year, however, that the forum was open to the entire campus.

“I hope Davidson students will gain more knowledge of college history and appreciation of Davidson’s tradition as a result of
this program,” said Porath.

“It [the forum] brings people from the community, students, and faculty together,” added Vagt.

From left to right: current president Bobby Vagt and former presidents John Kuykendall and Samuel Spencer.

Lake Norman Photo, Inc.
Southlake Shopping Center
P. O. Box 1090, 20619 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Cornelius, NC 28031
704/892-5400

Enroll Now!
Earth Semester or Universe Semester
September - December 2000
Four Summer Programs Offered
A total immersion experience
Environmental science in Arizona
16 Ivy League credits - Financial aid available
www.bio2.edu - 800-992-4603 - email: arizona@bio2.edu

Schulzinger is a nationally recognized historian of U.S. foreign relations and the Vietnam War. His book A Time for War:
The United States and Vietnam, 1941-1975, won the Robert Ferrell Prize of the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations
in 1998.

Schulzinger is a member of the U.S. State Department’s Advisory Committee on Historical Diplomatic Documentation, and is president of the
Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations.

He received his Ph.D. from Yale University in 1971, and taught at the University of Arizona and the University of
Denver before taking his position at Colorado in 1977. In addition to his book on Vietnam, his publications include Henry
Kissinger: Doctor of Diplomacy, and U.S. Diplomacy since 1900.

For more information on his talk at Davidson, call 892-2442.

Administration discusses

few changes were revealed.

Ninety-three spaces will be added behind the new dormitory, the c-shaped faculty parking area behind Richardson Dorm will become a
walkway, and the drive in front of Richardson will also be altered to go around the new building.

These alterations to the layout of Davidson should allay the concerns of both the students and the townspeople who have
encountered problems with parking within the town of Davidson.

SGA will most likely form an ad hoc committee to work with staff members on this issue, and students are
strongly encouraged to send their comments via e-mail to

As the sound of maracas, laughter, and excited voices filled the air, thirty-five children from the Davidson area enjoyed
