9 _THE DAVIDSONIAN. VIEWPOINT THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Can’t we all just get along?

Spring is in the air. Everywhere you look and everything you see glows with spring. From wide open windows with blinds drawn... to the buzzing bees that have been flying in and out of the windows, pollinating the flowering plants on the window sills... to the bickering students throwing their plants at each other... it is definitely springtime in Davidson.

Did something stand out in that last paragraph? Now, I know what you are thinking, “what does pollinating mean?” Or did you really want to know why I added the “bickering students” in that picturesque vision of spring? I will tell you: Webster’s Dictionary defines “pollination” as: “the transfer of pollen from an anther to the stigma in angiosperms or from the microsporangium to the micropyle in gymnosperms.” There now, isn’t your thirst for knowledge satiated for today?

Okay, okay... As I am sure many of my loyal readers have noticed (don’t worry, I understand if you are using the paper as a headrest for a quick nap and happened to notice this article...) along with the buzzing bees and flowering flora there seems to be an aura of tension in the air in this quaint little college community. Everyone knows what I mean. Maybe you first noticed it when you were studying in the basement of the library and someone sneezed and you screamed out “go sneeze somewhere else you allergy-prone ne’er do well, I have a physics test tomorrow!” It might have been that time when you awoke after a four-hour nap to the sound of birds chirping, only to hurl your textbook out the window at them. Or maybe it was the moment you figured out which window would make the best sniping position. Whenever your specific moment of epiphany came, the realization was the same: Something is wrong with this campus. (Don’t worry... don’t study in the library, I missed the birds, and I never seriously considered... well... let’s just leave it at that...)

What has happened to me... to us? Patience has been wearing thin amongst the denizens of Davidson. Could it be that the lengthy term papers, the group projects, and the new websites that we have to create in addition to our normal punishing workload have begun to affect us? Is it possible that after four hours of sleep, three hours of class, two hours of work, and four hours of studying physics that we have simply lost the friendly “Davidson greeting” that is so famous? I don’t think so. I do, however, think that if those damned birds don’t stop their gabbing in the next thirty seconds, they are going to have a date with Webster.

Note: There are a few things that Andrew would like to mention... First of all, any inferences, conjectures, or blatant threats that he made in this article to people, plants, and animals were unintentional and should, like everything else he writes, not be taken seriously. This brings him to his second point. In regards to last week’s article about Vail Commons, while he still believes that the food there is quite, and I quote, “yucky,” it has been brought to his attention that his words offended many of the workers at Vail. He would like to reiterate that his article is meant purely for enjoyment and comic relief and should not be taken as an attack on any individuals or their job. Finally, if anyone knows how to find the Moment of Inertia for a pulley-system, you should have told him last week!

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Why do all the international students sit together in the Commons?

In my class on social problems, we are reading the book Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria? Inspired by this book, I'd like to talk about my experience as an international student here at Davidson. I will do this by trying to answer the question “Why are all the international students sitting together in the Cafeteria?”

If you have a meal plan and choose to immerse yourself in the delights of our school cafeteria, i.e. the Commons, you might have already witnessed this phenomenon (unless you were too busy eating your cheese strata, of course). A single table that seats far more people than the poor table can fit. Once, I think we fit nine people in one of those small square tables. If you look closely at that group you will notice a few things. First, they look very different from each other. Second, most of them speak English with different accents. Have you ever wondered why they always sit together?

Let me start by describing an international student. An international student is one who was born and lives outside the United States. This includes those, like myself, who live in the US but were born or lived a good part of their lives abroad. Also included in this category are Americans who either lived abroad for a while or were raised by foreign parents. I do not use the term ‘international student’ as defined by the school. Instead,I call international students those who willingly choose to identify themselves in this way. We international students come to Davidson with a unique background and culture. First and foremost, we don’t have the opportunity to go home on weekends and on breaks. Some of us don’t even get to go home during the Christmas break. We leave our homes and families to journey hundreds of miles with the knowledge that it will be several months before we see home or family again. As we step into our “New World,” we face the contrast between our group identity and the dominant American culture. Our initial response is one of defense and isolation. We have to choose between assimilation or to accept ourselves as the “others.” Dealing with this inner conflict as individuals, we find others that are facing the same struggles. United in this struggle to define our identities, we are able to approach each other in a singular way. Then, all the cultural differences among us become something to be celebrated and affirmed. We observe our “otherness” in each other’s “otherness.” As we progress, we find that we actually have many things in common. I call this an “international culture.” We like a certain kind of music, we’ve all watched the same cartoons growing up and cheered for the same sides in worldwide sports events. Most of us have an unwavering enthusiasm for World Cup soccer. We share our memories of unforgettable plays and games. Mixed emotions emerge and we realize that, after all, people from the other side of the world are a lot like us. Since Davidson usually keeps us all so busy, all these processes unfold over the lunch or dinner table. Although we do interact on other occasions, the ‘international table’ is an integral part of our lives at Davidson. It is a time and a place for bonding and engaging in group procrastination before we go our separate ways for the rest of the day. Developing an international identity is an exciting experience. Although it is hard to define such an identity, we know how real it is to all of us. We recognize that every time we sit at one of those crowded tables. Lunch or dinner at the ‘international table’ is more than a meal. It is a time to feel at home again.

Elias Kruger ‘02

Finally recognized our distress.” be able to handle. Gonzalez. SGA declares treatment of Elian Gonzalez an injustice! Using recent momentum gained from their influential condemnation of the South Carolina confederate flag last week, SGA senators motioned this Tuesday to focus on international affairs. The country is still feeling the shockwaves launched by last week’s resolution to bring down South Carolina’s treasured civil war battle flag.

“We've been trying to get their attention for months,” exclaimed NAACP representative and chairman Julian Bond. “Thank goodness a powerhouse like the Davidson SGA finally recognized our distress.”

Davidson SGA emerged into the political arena after recognizing the difficulties national organizations have encountered in swaying South Carolina’s government. “Who needs Jesse Jackson on your side when you have the Davidson SGA?” Bond continued. In response to political pressure the Davidson SGA has applied, the southern government has been very compliant. In recent response to the Davidson SGA resolution on the flag affair, South Carolina Governor Jim H. Hodges wrote, “It'll be down by 8:30 am. Hope the smoking debate is going alright. Bummer about the cable situation.” Theories abound as to why Governor Hodges responded so rapidly to the SGA mandate. In addition to the obvious overwhelming influence of the student government, one dominant theory which political pundits have bounced around has been the threat of a Davidson student march — something that people speculate Columbia police would not be able to handle. “The potential for an out-of-control riot would be too likely,” states Columbia’s police commissioner. “The numbers scare us.”

The most recent action of the Davidson SGA flexing their newfound political muscle has been a declaration of the injustice imposed on 6-year-old Cuban immigrant Elian Gonzalez. Appalachian State: Basketball Benois Boss Desctanee questioned the motives behind it. “Too bad Coach McKillop can’t recruit Gonzalez for his team now. He’s going to be an American once SGA’s endorsement is heard.” The course of action and its implications are still unfolding, and now, having recognized their power, Davidson SGA continues to influence political discourse.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
SETH DAVIS
ANN GREGORY

Features Editor
CARRIE RILEY

Layout Manager
CADER HOWARD

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON
KEISON KALETT

Executive Layout Editor
BEN COVINGTON

Business Managers
PETER CLARK
STO! ROSHAN PAUL
DAVID JOHNSTON

Assistant Business Manager
PATRICK CLARK

Advertising Managers
CINDY CLARK
ALEX CALHOUN
ANA SPECHAR

Copy Editor
F. JUSTIN OSSMANN

Editor Emeritus
ANNA ERIKSSON
WES GOLDSBERRY

Sports Editor
BURGIN HARDIN

Viewpoint Editor
ERICA SCHWARTZ

International News
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Web Editor
Circulation Managers

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html. The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all inquiries to Box 219, Davidson, NC.