By Mike Anderson, Editor Emeritus

JACKSONVILLE, Fla.—Ask any coach: What’s the single most desirable attribute you look for in a recruit? Occasionally, it’s size. Maybe speed or quickness. Perhaps a surefire jump shot. But from most of them, the one we will come to value instantly and unequivocally—a love and a passion for the game, for competition, and for their teammates. The kind of spirit you might find in a player like JoAnne Hassel.

For JoAnne Hassel, playing Division-I basketball has been the opportunity of a lifetime. To her father and grandfather, both Davidson graduates, her days in the red-and-black are among the proudest moments of their lives.

“It’s been a dream come true, especially for my dad,” says Dr. David Hassel, a 1975 Davidson graduate. “You really value the people in your program that show loyalty, and that’s what JoAnne has done from the beginning.”

JoAnne’s paternal grandmother, Leslie Anne, describes, “Even though (Jo) hasn’t played a whole lot, the fact of being on this team means the world to her.”

Head coach John Filar adds, “She has a drive and a desire and a will to play more than anybody I’ve ever known.”

“Jo”—a 5-8 senior captain from Jacksonville, Fla.—joined Davidson’s basketball squad in 1997 as a minimally-recruited non-scholarship athlete. Three years later, she enters her senior campaign as not only an elected captain of the squad but as a scholarship recipient.

“We had a scholarship become available when (Carolina Perez-Heydrich) decided not to play this year,” described head coach John Filar. “JoAnne was the first thing that crossed my mind.”

Filar earned permission from athletics director Jim Murphy to transfer that scholarship money to Hassel for her senior season.

JoAnne’s grandfather Carl graduated in Davidson’s class of 1950, while her father graduated in 1975. Jo’s father jokes that her 2001 graduation date throws off the family’s pattern, to which she smiles and says, “That’s not my fault, Dad. That’s yours.”

“I’ve been coming to Davidson since I was five years old,” she says. “It’s the only college I’ve ever known. It’s been nice to be able to play here and share some of the experiences my father and grandpa did. It’s been pretty special for our family to carry on the tradition.”

A Whole Lot of Heart. A young JoAnne came home one day, picked up a basketball for the first time ever and informed her parents she was going outside to practice so she could try out for her school’s seventh-grade team.

“It’s always been a dream,” says her father, Dr. Carl Hassel ‘75. “She’s given everything that our scholarship players have over the last three years and never received anything monetarily in return. I was really pleased to be able to reward her this year.”

Last weekend’s trip to Florida marked a homecoming for the Wildcats’ senior guard. “It was great to go home,” Hassel said. “It was a little weird to have this meshing of my world from Davidson and my world from home. But it’s just a nice way to start off my senior season.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

senior year.” A Family Thing. father. “It’s always been something that’s driven her. She’s known for quite some time that she wanted to be a Division-I player.” Hassel spent her prep days at the Bolles School in Jacksonville, Fla. Though she graduated with all-state honors and a school-record 1,532 career points, she found herself near the bottom of the talent pool when she arrived at Davidson. “She was a good player, but never an overly-talented player,” Dr. Hassel describes. “But she has a drive and a desire and a will to play more than anybody I’ve ever known.”

“When I came in as a freshman, I knew the position that I was in,” says JoAnne. “I knew that my contributions would have to come from hard work—I knew I’d have to out-work everybody else. If I wasn’t as good as the next person in a certain area, I knew I’d have to work as hard as I could to come through in a different area.”

By the end of her freshman season, she realized that court minutes—at least for the next couple of years under Jen O’Brien—would be few and far between. “I realized shortly after coming here that I was never going to be the best person on this team,” she says. “I decided then that my role on this team wasn’t going to be a leading scorer or rebounder. But I knew that I could still contribute to our team’s atmosphere.”

She quickly became one of the program’s most vocal and inspiring cast members. She’s the first to leap off the bench when a teammate knocks down a basket. She’s one of the squad’s most tenacious competitors on the practice floor. And she’s always ready with supportive words or just a knowing smile. “You don’t ever have to wonder how Jo is gonna be on a given day—she comes in every time and gives the same hundred percent commitment,” says Filar.

Coaches and family attribute that to the competitive spirit of the Hassel clan. “We’ve always told our children that they need to be able to say that they did the best they possibly could have, in whatever they do,” says her father. “‘Do the best you possibly can and don’t be satisfied with anything less than that.’ She took that to heart.”

One year left. As she enters her senior campaign, JoAnne Hassel is living a dream. Not only has she risen to the ranks of a captain, but she can count a Division-I scholarship as another feather in her cap. “It’s not the money,” says her father. “It’s the fact that she’s been thought of highly enough to be given a scholarship to play Division-I basketball. That’s something she’ll have with her for the rest of her life.”

“Being a captain is the biggest honor I could ever receive,” Hassel says. “It means that my team respects me and trusts me to be a leader. That has made my year already.” More than anything, Hassel is determined to cherish her final season with the program. “I love these girls, they mean the world to me,” said JoAnne. “They’re the reason I love Davidson—I don’t know what I’d do without them.”