The Davsonian
By Eric McKay
Special Contributor

On Thursday, October 19, Kay Redfield Jamison delivered the inaugural David Blalock Memorial Lecture in Love Auditorium. Members of Kappa Alpha who graduated in 1990 donated the lecture to Davidson’s community in honor of their friend and fraternity brother, David Blalock, who committed suicide on a Sunday morning in December 1989.

According to Dr. Boyd Gillespie, a close friend of Blalock’s, “to the surprise of his classmates and fraternity brothers, David was engaged in a life and death struggle with depression. Unfortunately, those who were closest to him did not realize this until it was too late.”

Dr. Jamison, an internationally renowned psychologist in the study of suicide, has struggled with manic-depression and suicidal bouts for a large portion of her life. She is the acclaimed author of *An Unquiet Mind* and *Night Falls Fast* for which she has received several accolades. Dr. Cole Barton, a Clinical Psychologist, Clinical Researcher, and professor of psychology at Davidson offered great praise to Jamison, proclaiming her to be “one of our field’s bona fide heroes.” Barton added that “while many in our culture offer compassion and understanding for the emotionally challenged, rare is it to find someone whose gifts of brilliance, resilience, and courage have given her the personal perspective and voice to lead the rest of us toward lessons we should derive from others’ incredible struggles.”

Dr. Jamison’s discussion primarily focused on mood disorders, which affect more than 90% of those people who commit suicide. Currently, our society seems to largely ignore the issue of suicide along with its implications, causes, and repercussions. Demonstrating her concern, Dr. Jamison announced that “we know about the illnesses that lead to suicide and we know how to treat them, and it is a public health scandal that it is not more widely discussed and confronted.”

---

Epes, from page 1

Marshall Scholarship candidates, coach of the College Bowl team, and service on the faculty’s educational policy committee and curriculum requirements committee. The new administrative duties that confronted Epes have not retired him from the classroom, and he has said he would not have accepted the contract if it did not allow him to continue teaching. “I refuse in any way to say I’m no longer a teacher,” he said. “I consider myself a teacher and a registrar, rather than a registrar who teaches.”

Epes continues to teach one course per semester in the Humanities Program, a four-semester interdisciplinary examination of Western civilization that he has taught since 1969 and led for the last four years. His registrar’s job involves work both with students and with faculty in course registration, academic advising, management of self-scheduled exams, scheduling classrooms and courses, maintaining grade records, progress toward graduation requirements, and transcripts.

Epes said he had never previously considered the registrar’s job, but accepted the call by Ross to serve as interim head of the department out of a sense of duty. He was initially schooled by departing registrar Polly Griffin, who worked with him as she prepared to take on a new job at Dartmouth College. He learned the ropes since then from his staff, whom he described as “the best office on campus.” He found that he liked the work, and made the decision to apply for the permanent position.

“I have enjoyed the new challenges,” he said. “In addition, how often at my age do you get to change careers without leaving home, without giving up what you already do, and without being forced to make that change? It was an extremely rare opportunity I didn’t want to let pass.” He said he is grateful that the matter was resolved in his favor, and he looks forward to “sitting down with the staff to set some priorities and see what we can do to serve students and faculty better.”

Epes is widely loved by professors, staff, and students, who do not hesitate to praise his dedication to make Davidson a better place. He has never been one to shrink from responsibility, participating in and chairing countless committees during his time at Davidson.

“Of all the things about Hansford to be admired, his respect for the power and beauty of the written word tops my list,” said President Bobby Vagt. “He has been sharing this with students for decades, and the award is fitting recognition for, among other things, this extraordinary contribution to the liberal education of thousands—literally thousands—of alumni.”

Adapted from College CommunicationsDespite widely held misconceptions, suicide is not rare; neither are its related illnesses. In fact, suicide is the second leading cause of death among college students, and mood disorders most commonly affect college-aged people. A decade ago, mood disorders were not nearly as talked about or as treatable as they are today. Jamison stressed in her lecture that, while psychiatric disorders associated with suicide (depression, manic depression, schizophrenia, etc.) may seem uncommon, they are actually quite prevalent. She also commented that depression is one of the most treatable diseases. Studies presented by Dr. Jamison reveal that worldwide suicide rates, which increased steadily through the 1980s, are currently dropping as a result of heightened physician education about mood disorders and the advent of highly effective treatments. 

At a reception following the lecture, a group of interested students spoke with a group of Blalock’s friends regarding the tremendous progress that has been made since they were in college in the diagnosis and medication of mood disorders and in public understanding of suicide. However, until discrimination against people who suffer from depression and other mood disorders is eliminated, until the media stops blaming self-inflicted death on specific incidents, and ultimately, until suicide is removed from all statistics charts as a leading cause of death, it is imperative that people continue in the pursuit of knowledge and compassion. Jamison closed her lecture with powerful words of advice, “look to the living, love them, and hold on.”

Dr. Jamison and David Blalock’s fraternity brothers feel that colleges need to do a better job of addressing the touchy, but real issue of suicide. Some colleges, such as Harvard, are beginning campaigns to heighten awareness and education of the issues surrounding suicide. The Kappa Alpha brothers of the class of 1990 have made an admirable first step in initiating awareness programs at Davidson. Certainly, the effects of Dr. Jamison’s lecture on Thursday evening will be lasting for those in attendance, and hopefully, her speech will mark the beginning of an extensive educational campaign.

Tent, from page 1

A rule against sleeping outside. The officer’s reply, according to Bridges, was simply: “I was told the tent had to come down.” “I disagree with a rule that says that we can’t camp outside,” Bridges later said. “But the thing I disagree with the most is that they say there is a rule against it and we were never told by anyone this year. I even asked my hall counselors and they said it was ok. How come the hall counselors, employed by RLO, are not told all the rules?”

Since the incident, many students have expressed the same opinions; SGA actions and even protests have been mentioned as possible reactions. When asked about a protest, Flaim answered, “We’re waiting to see how the student government handles it” and also mentioned the possibility of a committee. Charles Washington ’04, an SGA member, downplayed the possibility of a protest, saying, “The SGA does not plan to protest, but to possibly plan an event that will allow students to sleep outside. We are not going to protest the school.” He indicated that the event had only been discussed briefly at the last SGA meeting but that it is being addressed.

Flaim said Washington was “a real asset to any student concerned about campus regulations” and indicated any activities relating to this incident would have SGA backing. “Students probably shouldn’t be able to sleep on the lawn for the entire semester,” Bridges conceded, “But they should be allowed to sleep outside for a few days at a time.”

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY

EXPLORE THE WORLD’S RELIGIONS while earning college credit:
- Study for a full academic year in Taiwan, Thailand, India, and Israel
- Earn up to 30 undergraduate credits

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for celebrations, study breaks, exam time, or just for fun!

- Pursue your academic studies of religion, anthropology, and international studies through readings, lectures, and participation in religious and cultural rituals and activities
- Experience life in a Buddhist temple, a Tibetan monastery, a Hindu mission

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
BEN & JERRY'S
VERMONT'S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
e-mail: fw@southampton.liunet.edu
www.southampton.edu/fw
239 Montauk Highway, Southampton, NY 11968
202 Main St., Davidson, 892-0604