The £ DAVIDSON COLLEGIAN - “The South’s Foremost College Weekly” - Established 1914

Code of Responsibility amended. NEWS 2
CatCard controversy stews at Baker. OPINIONS 8
Jen O’Brien breaks scoring mark. SPORTS 14

Erickson to be inaugurated Tuesday
By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

The Student Government Association will usher in a new administration this week with the inauguration of President Dane Erickson and Vice-president Joey Harris. Erickson, a junior from Lakewood, Colorado, ran unopposed for the office of SGA president.

“I’m really excited for this opportunity given to me by the student body and by my friends,” said the current SGA vice-president. “There’s just a great amount of potential for what we can do this next year.”

Erickson, co-captain of the men’s soccer team and holder of the prestigious Amos Norris Scholarship, emphasized “the distribution of information” as a key project for the semester. “One thing we really need to work on is public relations,” he said. “I think the SGA has consistently worked hard and accomplished a great many things for the student body. But the problem is, that information and the topics that are discussed at SGA meetings are not brought out to the student body.”

The president-elect has already begun to lay the groundwork for his tenure at the helm, promising to address issues ranging from the Vamonos Van to a campus recycling program. “Over the next year, we need to become more proactive, we need to be more in touch with the campus, and we need to tackle the big issues.”

Erickson’s ascension breaks a recent string of South Carolina presidents, dating back to Warren Buford in 1996. But Erickson promised to continue some of the work of his predecessors. Most notably, the product of Green Mountain High School has pledged to uphold Haselden’s commitment to increased senator accountability. “Part of the ongoing problem,” Erickson explained, “is that a majority of the work in SGA is done by a minority of the senators...I want to give senators the freedom and responsibility that they deserve so they can do their job to the fullest.”

As the first unopposed candidate for SGA President since Buford in 1996, Erickson admits that he missed the thrill of the campaign. “In some ways, I wish that somebody would have run against me. Because campaigning is fun: It puts you in touch with the campus and it gives you an idea of who you are and what you’ve been doing and what you plan to do.”

With the lack of competition at the top of the ballot, all eyes were focused on the spirited, and sometimes contentious, campaign for the vice-presidency. Sophomore class president Joey Harris edged junior Ben Carter in the race for the #2 spot. Erickson declined to endorse either candidate, but says that he is eager to begin work with Harris. “Joey is one of the most loved people on this campus. He has a tremendous amount of experience on SGA, and I look forward to not only working with him, but also to getting to know him better as a person.”

Outgoing President Foster Haselden, right, passes SGA leadership to Dane Erickson. “It’s definitely been a roller coaster for me,” said Harris. “But I feel relieved now, and I’m really excited about working with Dane. He’s a great guy and we’ve worked well together in the past.”

Harris has been on the fast track for SGA leadership since he stormed onto campus in the fall of 1998, emerging from a pack of over thirty candidates to capture the freshman class presidency. Harris, himself a South Carolinian, won re-election to a second term by an overwhelming margin. But Carter waged a potent challenge to the “SGA establishment.” “I think the SGA in general needs to take a very critical look at what its priorities are and be very ambitious in the goals.that it sets for itself,” Carter said. “The SGA wields an uncanny amount of power, and I rarely see it using that power to get meaningful goals accomplished.” Carter set his sights particularly on Harris’ emphasis on the cable TV issue. “It really troubled me to see the SGA pursuing an issue like cable. Cable would be an appropriate issue if we didn’t have a virtually segregated community. It would be an appropriate issue when everyone feels comfortable being open with their sexuality. Until then, it seems a fairly frivolous issue to be concerned with.” But Harris strongly defended his work on cable exploration. “My name has been synonymous with cable whether I like it or not,” he mused. “But it’s a challenge that I embrace, and it’s a challenge that I plan to continue to make an issue out of. If it’s important to students, then it’s important to the SGA.” Haselden, who appointed Harris to head the SGA’s exploratory committee, defended the SGA’s record saying, “Exploring the cable idea was just one of our many goals this year. Students came to us and raised this issue, we had a duty to pursue it for them. “It wasn’t the only thing we worked on this year. It was a high-profile issue, but we only spent parts of two meetings over the course of an entire year debating it. Our job is to respond to student concerns—and we responded thoroughly to each issue raised over the past year.” Haselden points to the SGA’s work with the Code of Responsibility Amendment, the campus recycling program, the bylaws revisions, restructuring of SGA committees and councils, and response to the demand for increased lounges. But he seems especially proud of the Senate’s support of other organizations.

See Election, page 2.

Haselden ends tenure as SGA president
By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

Bringing to close three and one half years of Student Government leadership, Foster Haselden presided over his final meeting of the SGA on Tuesday. Haselden, a senior history major from South Carolina, was elected Class of 2000 President shortly after arriving on campus in his freshman year. He was re-elected twice before assuming the helm of the SGA in January of 1999. The outgoing SGA president leaves behind an impressive legacy of notable accomplishments, sincere devotion, and a stirring passion for this college and its student government. Summing up his motivations, Haselden explains, “You care so much about the college because you want it to be the best. You invest so much of your personality when you take a job like SGA president.” Vice-President of the SGA Dane Erickson commends Haselden for his hard work. “Working side by side with him for an entire year, I saw Foster give his heart and soul to Davidson College,” said Erickson.

Haselden describes his tenure around a framework of three core beliefs: the importance of senator accountability, an emphasis on efficiency and effectiveness, and a willingness to solicit and address student concerns. Joey Harris, president of the Class of 2002, recalls that Haselden set the tone for the year early in his administration. “In one of his very first addresses, he said he was going to work us hard.” Haselden acknowledges his emphasis on senator accountability, “I was serious about senators responding to the needs of this campus.” Mike Anderson, Haselden’s chancellor, says, “Foster brought so much vision to the Senate during his administration. But even more importantly, he had an uncanny ability to inspire others to work hard alongside him.” Haselden speaks with pride about the way the SGA supported last month’s Martin Luther King Day celebrations. “We were really vocal in the body about coming back for Martin Luther King Day. We alerted senators that they had a duty.”

See Foster, page 2.

INTL. COMMENTARY .........
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036