By AMBER PARKE,
Staff Writer

Here’s a fun fact: American consumers throw away enough aluminum to rebuild our entire commercial air fleet every three months. That’s over 68 billion pounds!

It only took one observant and resourceful Gray Patterson, Sophomore class president, to build off of the already existing (but limited) recycling program at Davidson and make Patterson Court environmentally friendly. “I just saw it as a way for SGA to step in and really make a difference in the environment.”

In the past, recycling bins were only in Chambers and the residence halls. PCC and SGA have now directed more resources towards the court.

Recycling came to Davidson through the combined efforts of Whitney Frasier, ’00, and the Environmental Action Committee. Together they worked to raise environmental awareness on campus by placing recycling bins in rooms in Chambers as well as in the bathrooms of residence halls.

This year, concerned members of the SGA formed a committee to oversee recycling endeavors at Davidson. Chaired by Patterson, the committee also seats Sophomore class Senator Kevin Epps, Kappa Sigma representative Sam DuPont, Rusk representative Abby Johnson-Reid, and Anthony Albert, an independent.

Working hand in hand with the Superintendent of Building Services, Barbara Zaionz, the committee is responsible for bringing the new recycling bins to all of the houses on Patterson Court. Each house should have smaller bins for paper, glass, and plastic while the larger green ones will be used only for aluminum.

The houses are responsible for emptying their bins into the large recycling dumpsters in the Satellite parking lot. At the moment there are only two there (one for paper and the other for glass, plastic, and aluminum), but a third is on order.

So far the only glitch in the program has come from the Charlotte area service provider. Since they have been unable to empty the larger dumpsters, the committee is working hard to find another company to do so.

In 1999, the Anheuser-Busch Recycling Corporation (the world’s largest recycler of aluminum cans!) recycled over 685 million pounds of beer cans alone. In the past few months, Patterson Court has produced only a fraction of this. Patterson is optimistic: “We’ve got a great system going here, but for it to be fully effective, we need a more conscious effort from all of the houses!” he commented.

In Army ROTC, you’ll get to do some pretty challenging stuff—stuff that builds character and discipline. Not to mention muscles. You'll also learn how to think on your feet and be a leader.

What kind of summer job would you like to have before you go to work in the “real world?” A job where you can just make a lot of money? Or do you want more?

How about a job with a good income but that also gives you training in personal success, where you can have fun in a stimulating and family-like atmosphere, and spend the summer in the mountains of Wyoming?

Brown, from page 1

Brown worked to improve coordination between the Dean Rusk Program, the Office of Study Abroad, and the International Studies advisor. He worked with President Vagt and the Advisory Council to move the programs from three separate buildings to their current co-location in the basement of Chambers. Brown also facilitated the creation of Davidson’s chapter of Phi Beta Delta, the honor society for students of international studies.

Brown sees the work of the Dean Rusk Program as crucial since Davidson students will inevitably be involved in a global community. “Increasing what students know about the world is important since interconnectedness is growing. Graduates will be involved in international issues, whether as professionals or as citizens. They must understand what’s going on elsewhere,” he said.

Although Brown will be moving on, he looks forward to the Dean Rusk Program’s continued success. He would like to see increased funds and travel grants available. He hopes that the programs will eventually be able to move into even more appropriate quarters, like an international house, together. “The international program at Davidson will prosper. We’ve seen such an increase in student participation and support from the administration, alumnae, friends of the College, and the community,” he commented.

Brown is anticipating the challenges of his new position at the Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training, which is a non-governmental organization devoted to advancing awareness about American diplomacy. The organization sponsors conferences, exhibits, and offers support for the training of foreign service officers.

Along with his enthusiasm for this opportunity comes mixed feelings about leaving Davidson. “I will miss the involvement with the students,” he said. “It will also be hard to leave such pleasant surroundings.”

President, from page 1

Pittenger suggested a shuttle to the Lake Campus, perhaps using the Vamanos Van. “We have a perfectly good Vamanos Van and a Lake Campus that barely gets used. Maybe more people would use it if they had a free ride there,” he said. Finally, Pittenger will commit to a specific hour a week when he would make himself available for students to discuss issues and concerns with him.

“We will have the most productive SGA that Davidson has ever seen and the students will know what’s going on,” he promised.

Check out our staff website at www.coolworks.com/abara. Or, call us at 303-838-1950 for questions or to set up an interview.

Interviewing on campus February 8. Please call the careers office to set up a time.