- DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2001 VOLUME 93, NUMBER 4

Religious plaques ignite faculty debate
Concerns over diversity, open-mindedness prompt faculty response

By COLIN EAGAN
News Editor

The written Word has been all the talk at Davidson lately—but perhaps not in the way religious leaders usually hope. Controversy has arisen over religious plaques that have been placed around campus at the request of a donor to the college. Featuring quotes from the Old Testament, the plaques have provoked questions among faculty and students concerning the definition of appropriate contributions to the college, the role of Davidson’s Presbyterian heritage, and its mission of open-mindedness.

To some, the controversial plaques seem subtle enough. Three have been placed in various locations—one on the right wall of the Chambers Building foyer, one on College president Bobby Vagt’s office door, and one outside the Hall of Fame room in Baker Sports Complex. They feature verses from Psalms, Proverbs, and Jeremiah, respectively. All were placed over the summer in accordance with the wishes of a major, unnamed donor. The decision to install the plaques, according to Vagt, was made entirely by the President’s Office with the “knowledge of several trustees.”

This summer, several professors were startled by the appearance of the plaques around campus. It would seem the unannounced appearance of Old Testament verses on Davidson’s walls was cause for confusion and even alarm. History professor Sally McMillen was first to formally express concern. She wrote a letter to religion professor Karl Plank, Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee, requesting that the committee discuss the plaques’ origin and appropriateness. A copy of the letter was sent to Vagt.

“I felt that putting these permanent plaques with their Bible quotes in such public places conveyed the idea that the college is not living by its statement of open-mindedness toward people of all different faiths,” McMillen explained. “I felt that some parents, students, and visitors might be offended by these Bible sayings... Should we not also display quotes from the Koran, the Book of Mormon, etc.?”

McMillen soon discovered that her concerns were shared by many among the faculty. The Executive Committee, composed of the president and a small group of faculty members who advise him, spent a considerable amount of time addressing McMillen’s concerns. “It was not as much a discussion that would lead to conclusions as it was an exploration of issues,” said Plank. Issues discussed included “donor-trustee prerogatives, the dynamics of religious particularity with sensitivity to pluralism, and the problem of the particular medium as a fitting vehicle for expressing religious concerns,” he said.

A summary of the committee’s discussion on the topic was conveyed to the faculty at its August meeting. At this point, many faculty members expressed their feelings and posed questions about the plaques to Vagt and to each other. “I think concerns were raised in several...

Campus discussion on Honor Code continues

By ROLAND F. FOSS
Staff Writer

The momentum to revise the Honor Code has slowed, though the process of discovery and diplomacy continues. “Clearly, we have a ways to go before we can make any change,” said Will Parker ’02, HonorCouncil Chairman. Dissenting and provocative thoughts were urgently displayed at a forum sponsored by the Honor Council on Thursday, Sept. 6. Almost fifty students and faculty attended, including members of the Honor Council, President Bobby Vagt, and Dean of Students Tom Shandley. 

Will Parker was first to speak, offering his and the Council’s perspective on the proposed changes to the Honor Code, which revolve around the issue of plagiarism. He posed two rhetorical questions: “Is it possible for a student to unintentionally plagiarize?” His answer was yes. However, “Should a student be capable of unintentionally violating the Honor Code?” Indeed, this, among others, was and is still a burning question of many who are concerned about the proposed revisions of the Honor Code. Currently, the portion of the Code relevant to plagiarism states: “Cheating includes plagiarism, which is representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” Under the option put forth at the forum, this sentence would be amended to: “Plagiarizing, whether intentional or by means of unreasonable negligence, is representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” The sentence regarding plagiarism would be in a paragraph separate from the sentence regarding cheating.

At issue to many is the idea of “unreasonable negligence.” Dr. Jonathan Berkey stated that “unreasonable” could be, in this case, synonymous with “intentional,” whereby the definition would thus be “circular.” He plainly asked, “What constitutes reasonable negligence?” Judging by other faculty members' comments, this question too was on their minds. Dr. Susan Roberts wondered whether “unreasonable” could also denote an “amount” or proportion. Both Berkey’s and Roberts’ interpretations challenged the proposal’s proponents to qualify how exactly “unreasonable” is to be defined.

Mike Anderson ‘02, Policy Coordinator for the Honor Council, conceded that the “faculty is best equipped” to decide what is plagiarism in an academic context, but defended the purpose of the Honor Council to decide to what degree a specific instance of plagiarism constitutes an Honor Code violation. Both he and Parker remained on the defensive for much of the forum. Some faculty members supported splitting the proposed plagiarism sentence into two—the first saying of what plagiarism consists, the second making a determination of intent and perhaps punishment.

Dean Shandley’s remarks towards the end of the discussion made it seem as if the Council would have to go back to the drawing board. He said the proposal was not ready to be presented to the Student Conduct Council, and suggested that faculty and students need to talk more. Shandley suggested that the Council should, as its next step, return to its program of small group discussions and consider several different resolutions that would appeal to different groups and different ideas. Not surprisingly, this is what the Council is now doing. Several members of the Council are planning to participate in personal meetings with several faculty members. “We do have a common goal—a stronger, more applicable Honor Code. We just need to figure out the best way to get there,” said Anderson.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-5
Sophomore leads t-shirt campaign to raise money for Red Cross.
Arts & Living 6-7
Chef Martha’s debut. Yum.
Perspectives 8-9
Student reacts to plaques.
Sports 10-12
Sophomore Amy Leitch (right) leads women’s soccer over Elon.