Cast Iron Filter claims new album is best to date
By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Blending luminous songwriting, near-virtuoso instrumentation, and an unbridled joy for their craft, Davidson-rooted Cast Iron Filter is poised to release their third album, *This Ugly Town*, on Nov. 3 at a CD release party at the Visulite Theater in Charlotte. The five-piece southern rock/Americana ensemble has exploded out of the gate since going full-time this past summer. Acclaims *The Charlotte Observer*: “...Cast Iron Filter cranks out like acoustic folk-rock on steroids” - and as their sound bleeds across the southeast, the band is accruing an impressive resume of gigs and radio play from Virginia to Georgia.

“I’m having a lot of fun, I don’t know how I could be more happy,” says Dustin Edge ‘00, lead vocalist/guitarist. “This new CD definitely represents our sound better than anything we’ve released before, we’re confident it will open some doors for us.” The fourteen-track album glistens as a tribute to the unique blend of sounds that has come to define the newly-revamped Cast Iron. It’s a little bit rock, a little bit country, a little bit bluegrass, but above all a beautifully cohesive album, blasting an upbeat, feel-good sound. Describes drummer Tim Helfrich ‘00, “We wanted to run the gamut as far as styles. We were definitely aware of the variety on this CD as we walked out of the studio.” Mason Bissett, a recent Wake Forest graduate who recently joined the band on the bass guitar, adds, “It just feels like good music. We’re just trying to jam, we’re not trying to fit into any predetermined genre of music.”

*This Ugly Town* trumpets a sound markedly different from the band’s first album, the purely-acoustic *Paradise in Palestine*. New to the crew, Bissett and steel-pedalist Jim Ashton have sparkled - both on stage and in the studio. “Mason has been a real spark plug for the band,” praises Helfrich. “In terms of having a genuine joy for our music, there’s nobody like that kid.”

“The first time I saw Mason [who recently departed from Wake Forest band No Big Deal], I thought: He’s the only kid I’ve ever seen who plays like [Bela Fleck bass guitarist] Victor Wooten,” Orlando says. “Mason does things on that bass that fiddlers can’t do on the damn fiddle.

“And Jim’s addition has brought so much to the band. We came to know him some months ago, and knew he was just too good to let get away. Mason and Jim both have forced us to be better musicians, they’re really pushing us ahead.”

In addition to the new members, Hootie & the Blowfish guitarist Mark Bryan teamed up with Cast Iron Filter for selected tracks of *This Ugly Town*, as did National Fiddler’s Convention champion Glenn Alexander. “This album really utilizes a full band,” says mandolinist Mike Orlando ‘01. “The last [album] really lacked a full percussion presence. *This Ugly Town* really ties together better.” Case in point - the ninth track, “When You Don’t Come Around.” This album’s super-charged remake of the staple Cast Iron song features hard-driving percussion and a wall-to-wall jam of a rolling banjo line. “That’s a song that kind of morphed from a true bluegrass into a real rock tune,” describes Helfrich. “It’s got a drive and an energy that it never had before.”

Across the spectrum, “You Ain’t Right” drips pure country. It opens with a catchy pedal-steel melody from Ashton: “Jim played phenomenally on this album, especially on ‘You Ain’t Right,’” says Helfrich. “He pulled out all the tricks from his Nashville days.” Though the song blends Cast Iron Filter’s foundational sound with a country accent somewhat foreign to the band, “We just had to put it on the album,” says Bissett. “We just had that song down tight.”

“It’s really a song that you can market,” Helfrich adds.

---

Red Water creates a splash at Harvard
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Yes, it’s true: Rush Beam ’04 slept in Natalie Portman’s bed two weekends ago. Unfortunately, Ms. Portman wasn’t in the bed with Rush, but Mark DiCristina ’03 was. Perhaps Dave Tolley ’03 was in the doghouse that night: his two bandmates shared the bed alone. Mark, Dave, and Rush form the band Red Water Parting. Their journey to Queen Amidala’s boudoir began in the fall of 1999, during Mark and Dave’s freshman year. The two friends started to play music together, and eventually performed at various campus concerts. Some of you may remember their many headlining shows in the 900 Room. Back then they were just Mark and Dave.

A year later Mark and Dave met Rush at the Thursday night worship services that they started. Using the spiritual services as a guise for auditions — a sort of “Making the Band,” if you will — Mark and Dave spotted Rush and immediately recruited him as a percussionist. No, not really. Red Water Parting evolved from the three’s friendship. There was never a conscious effort to form a band, never an insistence on having a drummer. Rush would fool around with the drums in the company of Mark and Dave, and eventually his name was added to the group.Spring provided a number of important moments for the band. They made their debut as a trio at Spring Frolics and also played a few times at Living Arts in Charlotte. More importantly, their CD "Facing the Post Office," which was recorded a year earlier, was pressed. This summer, Grassroots Music picked up "Post Office" and now distributes the CD on their website, www.grassrootsmusic.com.

The group adopted the name Red Water Parting only recently. The Judeo-Christian implications of the name are hard to overlook—especially with an undeniably spiritual flavor to their lyrics—but the group insists on the name’s ambiguity: “It’s ambiguous... however the listener wants to take it, whether visually or another way.” Perhaps “ambiguous” accurately describes their sound, as well. Red Water Parting is one of those genre-blending groups that are best left without a label. And based on the following dialogue, I think the band might agree.

Mark: “We’re tri-vocal, Afro-Celtic folk.”
Dave: “Why Afro?”
Mark: “The drums, man.”
Dave: “Oh.”

Whatever their style is, whatever adjectives precede their name, their music caught the attention of the Harvard concert committee this fall. The band found itself in the running to open at Harvard’s Dispatch concert two weekends ago. With "Post Office" as its ambassador, Red Water Parting impressed the committee, which flew Mark, Dave, and Rush to Boston for the gig.

Opening for Dispatch certainly marks the crest of Red Water Parting’s career. The band played eight songs, four from "Post Office," and the audience’s wildly enthusiastic reaction has yet to register with the band. Also, Brad Corrigan from Dispatch played during the guys’ set, and then Dave returned the favor with a violin improvisation during the Dispatch show. In one weekend, Red Water Parting went from a small college group to Dispatch’s opening band. And for consolation prizes, they got a free trip to Boston and somehow managed to get in Natalie Portman’s sheets. (Ms. Portman is a member of Harvard’s concert committee, so we’ll attribute Rush and Mark’s good fortune to Ms. Portman’s hospitality rather than to Red Water Parting’s skills with the ladies.)

You can catch Red Water Parting Nov. 9 at 9:30 P.M. in the 900 Room.

---

“It’s just got that feel,” Edge describes. Adds Orlando, “It’s just the kind of song that could end up on CMT (Country Music Television).” But that’s not the goal. “The route we’re taking, we’ve decided to stick with our unique sound, rather than change it to suit the radio,” says Bissett. “It will take longer to make it ‘big’ this way, but it’s worth the wait.”

“I’ve had more fun in the last four weeks than I’ve had in my entire life,” says Orlando, his trademark grin stretching from ear to ear. “It’s all about having fun and being with your friends,” nods Helfrich. “We’re at a point where we can seriously focus on those two things. And this music really reflects that.”

The joy ride has become increasingly lucrative, as well. Under the direction of manager Scott Shupe ‘01 and their new booking agency Treeline Artists (Athens, Ga.), Cast Iron has filled its October and November calendar with 23 gigs in four states. “We’re having fun exposing people to our own unique sound,” Edge describes. “There’s nothing like getting up there, making people dance, and then seeing them be won over by the end of the night.”

“We’re always trying new things, but all in all we’re sticking to our root sounds,” says Orlando. “And that definitely reflects a commitment that we’re going to be in this industry for a long time—long enough for this sound to catch on.”

Cast Iron Filter takes to the stage Saturday at 11:00 PM with a 21-and-up release party at Charlotte’s Visualite Theater (1615 Elizabeth Street). More information is available at www.castironfilter.com.

---

Alumni-led Blue Dogs return home for Thursday night show
By Evans McGowan
Special Contributor

Do you remember where you were last Thursday? If you can’t, then you must not have been at the Blue Dogs Concert in the Smith 900 Room at the College Union. The Blue Dogs’ mix of fast-paced jams with hip-hop beats and a bit o’ country rock kept the room alive and hoppin’ well into the night.

Davidson College graduate, lead singer and guitarist Bobby Houck ’87 still leads the band. Last Thursday was a great chance for Houck and the rest of the band to reminisce about the “old days” as well as relive his Davidson experience. Houck made his debut in the old Union as a guitar soloist, so performing in the new Union was very special to him. Currently, the Dogs are planning a western tour and trying to get picked up by a major label.

Sponsored by the Union Board Concert Committee, the Blue Dogs are one of many bands to play the Alvarez College Union. Look for a suggestion box in the Union to voice your opinion about favorite bands.