We’re approaching the pinnacle of the college basketball season—March Madness. But for the Final Four starts in Greenville, S.C. this weekend at the 2001 Southern Conference Basketball Championships. Here, The Davidsonian previews the upcoming SoCon battle royale. May I have this dance! Tourney time in the Southern Conference Late-game heroics revive Wildcats, give them momentum By MIKE ANDERSON Editor Emeritus

It took just two hours. And in that time, a season’s worth of underachievement evaporated into a euphoric celebration on the floor of Belk Arena. Davidson entered Saturday afternoon’s contest against the highly-touted College of Charleston as profound underdogs for the Cougars to clear on their way to the NCAA Tournament. An ESPN commentator said before the game that Charleston had to be careful not to “stub its toe” on the Wildcats. With five minutes to play, the Wildcats trailed 61-51 and seemed well on their way to another defeat just days before tournament play. But Bob McKillop’s squad stormed back, clawing its way to a 17-2 run over the game’s final five minutes.

“We're back from the dead now,” smiled freshman forward Jouni Eho. “We've had a motto for quite some time now—that everyone had buried us in a coffin and didn’t expect us to come back. We were the only ones who believed in ourselves, and now we’re back.”

“To say the least, this was a terrific win for Davidson and obviously a difficult loss for us,” said Charleston’s John Kresse, who owns the highest winning percentage of any active Division I basketball coach. The afternoon saw Davidson’s top two scorers return to action from injuries—Emeka Erege, who has been sidelined since Jan. 6 with a broken foot, and Wayne Bernard, who missed a game against The Citadel on Feb. 19 with a sprained ankle. Bernard scored 19 points and helped jumpstart the comeback with a baseline three-pointer at the 4:45 mark.

“I thought Wayne Bernard was superb coming off the injured list,” said coach Bob McKillop. “Coming off an injury and playing like he did is just tremendous. And Emeka gave us a fearless presence out on the court. He has a court charisma, he knows where to be, when to be there. He’s a connector. He’s the heart and soul of this team.”

If Erege was the respected veteran, then the young phenom was Jouni Eho. The 6-6 native of Utshoki, Finland netted 17 points in just 24 minutes, including the go-ahead three-pointer with 1:17 to play.

“(Eho) is a tremendous rookie in this league,” said Kresse. “He brings a lot of confidence and maturity for being just a freshman. He’s just a rugged player who knows how to play.”

Things had begun looking bleak for the Wildcats in the opening minutes of the second half. Charleston opened the period with a 13-3 run, and Davidson center Martin Ides drew his fourth foul with 15:36 to play.

“(Martin’s fourth foul) was a very serious problem,” said McKillop, “especially since Chris (Pearson) was in foul trouble. We then went with Michel (Lusuakueno) and Jouni, and they did a tremendous job of keeping their finger in the dike because that really could have exploded on us.”

Ides managed to avoid picking up his fifth foul, and came up big in the game’s final seconds, grabbing a defensive rebound and sinking a free throw to seal the deal with just eight ticks to go.

“That guy Martin Ides is a tremendous force,” said Kresse. “He changes the game.”

Said Eho: “Any time you have a 7-2 guy in there—in any league—you’re gonna be hard to stop, especially as skillful as Martin is. And today, we even saw some of his outside shooting ability.”

The game was the third Southern Conference meeting between Davidson and Charleston since the Cougars joined the league three seasons ago. In the first showdown, Charleston mounted a 15-point comeback to hand the Wildcats a devastating loss at home. But last season, Davidson became the only team in three seasons to beat the Cougars in John Kresse Arena, winning 71-58 on the shoulders of Stephen Marshall’s 20-point performance.

“We’ve had three great basketball games (against Davidson),” said Kresse. “And I’m sure thatTrend will continue. Bob McKillop is one of the most wonderful coaches in the nation. He’s top of the line in his style, in his enthusiasm, and in his ability to teach and develop players. Few can surpass Bob McKillop as a coach.”

Should Davidson handle Wofford in the first round of the conference tournament on Thursday, the two teams would again square off on Friday at the Bi-Lo Center. “We need to regroup and prepare to maybe face Davidson again on Friday,” said Kresse. “I wouldn’t doubt that that’s going to happen, the way Davidson has been playing lately.

“We’re looking forward to the tournament. It should be one of the most exciting that we’ve seen in many years in the Southern Conference.”

Anatomy of a comeback: the Wildcats’ four-minute 17-4 run

“Our guys inched back into it, point by point, possession by possession. That’s something that has not been a trademark of this team. The youth, the lack of experience, and the lack of rhythm with this team have caused us to find ourselves in those moments and make very inopportune decisions. Today, we made those decisions as well as we possibly could have made.”

By BURGIN HARDIN

“Settle, settle!” head coach Bob McKillop shouted to junior point man Michael Bree. McKillop pumped his arms, patting the air around his waist with his palms as he tried to calm his team. Good luck.

As the Belk Arena crowd roared, already celebrating the imminent season-ending victory over conference rival College of Charleston, the Wildcats diligently maintained their composure and dribbled away the remaining seconds of a near flawless Saturday afternoon comeback.

Call it a vindicating victory for the underdog. Call it a good show for a national audience. Cougar coach John Kresse called it magical. “They had the magic potion in those last four minutes,” said a beleaguered Kresse after the game.

With Charleston in command with a 10-point lead, the Wildcats uncorked their magic potion at the 4:41 mark—not a minute too soon. Wayne Bernard took the first swipe, draining a three to cut Charleston’s lead to 61-54 and bring the Belk Arena crowd to its feet.

The Wildcats settled into a zone as the Cougars came down the floor to answer. The zone defense kept the Cougars on the perimeter, eventually forcing Jeff Bolton to lob a misguided jumper. In the ensuing battle for the rebound, sophomore center Rudy Rothseider fouled Jouni Eho, sending the 6-6 Finnish freshman to the free throw line for two of the seven points that he collected in the last four minutes.

“They used that match-up zone that took us out of our offensive flow,” said Kresse. “We stretched and we struggled also finding a good shot. Also, a couple of costly turnovers in those last two minutes were devastating.”

That means you, Leighton Bowie. Bowie, who had not committed a single turnover all night, surrendered the ball to the Wildcats twice in the closing minutes. Eho cleaned up the first spill, initiating a possession that Bernard finished with another three-pointer at the 3:37 mark, bringing the Wildcats within two points.

Davidson now relied on its perimeter game as a matter of necessity as it was forced to conserve middlemen Martin Ides and Chris Pearson, both of whom had tallied their fourth personal fouls by midway through the second period.

“We looked at that as a very serious problem,” said McKillop, referring to Ides’ fourth foul early in the second half, “especially Martin and Chris. We took the Band-Aid approach with Michel and Jouni. But I thought Michel and Jouni both did a tremendous job of keeping their finger in the dyke, and maybe if Jouni doesn’t get those minutes, then he doesn’t make those baskets.”

Pearson finally fouled out with just over three minutes to play, sending Jeff Bolton to the line to make two free throws and give Charleston some breathing room for the time being, 63-59.

The Cougars and Wildcats exchanged unproductive possessions as the clock ticked down to the two-minute mark. The Cougars could not get the ball inside to Jody Lumpkin despite the conservative play of Ides, who was wary of that looming fifth foul.

See COMEBACK, page 9