WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2001

Lady 'Cats rout Elon Phoenix at home, end losing streak
By NICHOLAS CARLSON
Staff Writer

That loud “whoosh” heard on campus Sunday was the sound of the women’s soccer team (1-6) finally exhaling. With a win over Elon (1-5), the team ended a rough week and a tough start to the season in one blow.

Before that victory, the team had lost six straight, including losses to UNC-Charlotte and Furman. Things seemed like they were starting to get better in the second half of Tuesday’s UNCC match, as the Wildcats attacked the goal more consistently and even scored in the 2-1 loss. “We certainly played more aggressively in the second half,” said Davidson head coach Kevin Hundley.

However, instead of building on the seeming momentum, the team dropped last Friday’s contest against the Furman Lady Paladins, 4-1. With the Wildcats down two goals by 25:58 in the first half, the Paladins dominated the rest of the way despite sophomore Deneille Erikson’s first goal of the season.

Davidson finally got on track Sunday, though, defeating Elon 1-0 in a defensive battle. The Wildcats had possession of the ball for the majority of the game. One player commented, “Our formations didn’t really match up and we just kept the ball in our area of strength on the field.” The Phoenix of Elon fatigued as it fended off the Davidson attack time and again. Fears of counterattack waned as the Phoenix failed to gain possession from fruitless Davidson attacks. At one point, an exasperated head coach Paul Webster said, “Keep [the ball] for us!”

The Wildcats took the lead on a free kick just outside the 18-yard box. Midfielder Tara Maloney assisted by getting the ball through to a charging Leigh Anne Hoskins, who finished the goal for her second point this season. The ball squeezed just past the outstretched arms of Elon goalkeeper Kara Zogal, rolling slowly into the net.

Elon’s best chance came 12 minutes into the second half. With Davidson goalkeeper Sarah Hobart caught out of position, Elon forward Mackenzie Sisson made a centering pass inside the six-yard box that nearly met an Elon foot—saved only by the literal goal-line stand of Liz Mannino. Mannino cleared the ball and diffused Elon’s most potent threat.

On handing Elon their fifth loss of the season, Coach Hundley commented, “The level of opponent wasn’t as good today. The real challenge here is to play better for Wofford.” Davidson will meet the Wofford Terriers Wednesday night in Spartanburg, S.C., before returning to Smith Field in a Friday night match-up against the Appalachian State Mountaineers. The game begins at 7 pm.

Men’s soccer tops UNC Charlotte, wins fourth straight
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Scoring goals, teaching the game they love, and giving back to the community. These three accomplishments and services are ultimately what characterize the 2001 Davidson men’s soccer team. Understanding that service takes priority over soccer, the Wildcats sacrificed what would usually be preparation time before their game against UNC-Charlotte so that area Boy Scouts could come out and learn a few things from some of their biggest role models.

The clinic, in traditional Davidson fashion, went smoothly; players of all ages, ranging from youth league to NCAA Division I, had a fantastic time together. The game was also one of three athletic events, including a men’s basketball and baseball game, that the Scouts are required to attend in order to receive a specially designed Davidson College Wildcat patch.

When kickoff time arrived, however, the Wildcats, like all good Scouts, were prepared. Davidson handed county rival UNCC its third loss of the season in a 2-0 drubbing, as the Wildcats improved to 5-1 and extended their winning streak to four games. “This was a great win against a huge rival,” Coach Spear commented. “It’s nice to win two years in a row against these guys, especially since we hadn’t beaten them since 1993 until last year’s game.”

Before an excited crowd of 1,036, the Wildcats dominated the overmatched 49ers, outshooting their opponent 16-8. In a game characterized by intensely physical play, 21 fouls were called, and referees handed out a plethora of...cards—seven on the night, including two red cards. Senior Erik Ozimek opened up the scoring for Davidson at the 4:26 mark in the first half as he ripped his first goal of the season into the upper right corner from 30 yards out. “Erik’s goal was definitely of the highlight reel variety,” Spear lauded. “I think he stunned the keeper by taking that shot. It was an amazing goal and definitely gave us a boost of confidence.” The Wildcats added to their lead with just under a minute to go in the first half when, off a short corner kick from senior Jon Tetirick, fellow senior Justin Saunders sent in a cross that was headed home by senior Paul Watson for his first tally of the year. “Paul’s goal was huge because it took the wind out of Charlotte’s sails going into halftime,” Spear noted. “On the road, the difference between a one and a two goal deficit is enormous.”

Junior goalkeeper Soren Johnson turned back five 49er shots en route to his first complete game shutout on the season and senior Derek Kilburn “played his best game of the year at left back,” Spear added. In a second half exchange of both words and shoves, Ozimek and UNCC captain Rob Evitts were issued red cards, meaning that both players will be forced to sit out their team’s next match. The Wildcats travel to Columbia, S.C. on Wednesday to square off against #17 ranked South Carolina in what should be a preview of tournament action.

MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

The Davidson men’s cross country team lined up against some of the nation’s best runners in last Friday’s Great American Cross Country Festival. Finishing strongly, the Wildcats placed a solid 16 out of 29 teams. The ‘Cats, with 489 points, beat three Southern Conference teams also competing, edging out conference rival Furman University by two points. Senior captain Dan Gibson led the Wildcat pack, finishing the 8k course in a time of 26:29.4, placing 91st in a field of 264 runners. He was followed seconds later by junior Andrew Schoewe, who finished in 26:37.7 to earn the 104th place. Completing the top five for Davidson were sophomores Chris Schmader, David Bunge, and junior Brad Becken, who all finished under 27:30. In an expression of goodwill and peace, American and visiting British runners exchanged national flags. University of Michigan freshman Alan Webb, who broke the national high school mile record last season, won the race in 24:05.2, his teammate Mark Pilja finishing second. North Carolina State University, ranked 11 in the nation, dominated the team competition by placing all five runners in the top fifteen to win the meet. With this week off to train, Davidson’s next race will be the Paul Short Run in Bethlehem, Penn. on Oct. 6.

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

The Davidson women’s cross country team raced impressively in last Friday’s Great American Cross Country Festival at Winthrop University, placing 17 out of 31 teams. Despite hot, humid conditions and a field stacked with talent, the Wildcats showed a marked improvement over their season opener in Boone, giving a performance that could foreshadow the rest of the season. Freshmen Sally Stanhope and Anna Brew led the way again for Davidson, finishing 84th and 116th respectively, with times of 18:56 and 19:30 for the 5,000-meter course. Behind Stanhope and Brew were Liz Gross ‘03 (131, 19:44), Laura Puckett ‘02 (150, 19:57), and sophomore Emily Einstein ‘02 (185, 20:22). Sophomore Jenna Kruppa (190, 20:27) and freshman Lindley Swartz (218, 21:01) rounded out the Wildcats’ top seven. N.C. State’s women claimed the team championship with a score of 41 points. Brigham Young’s Tara Northcutt won the individual title with a time of 16:56. The race also featured numerous teams from the Southern Conference, against whom the ‘Cats matched up well. If the Wildcats’ performance against their Southern Conference foes at the Great American is any indication, Davidson can look forward to a strong showing at the Southern Conference meet in October. The women race next on Saturday, October 6 at the Citadel in Charleston, S.C.

—Chris Schmader, Staff Writer

Cross Country Roundup Harriers race the nation