Editorial

The decision not to cancel classes in the hours after the greatest tragedy in U.S. history has been the subject of controversy in recent weeks. The SGA forcefully declared its opinion on Sept. 20, when it unanimously approved a proclamation that condemns the decision. The text of this resolution is printed on page 3.

The SGA argues that, for obvious reasons, students were unable to focus their attention on academics as news of the attacks unfolded. Holding classes placed undue stress not only on students, but professors as well. “For a period of time, we, as a campus, were not able to concentrate on anything but last week’s horrific events,” reads the proclamation.

If the psychological well-being of students is what the SGA had in mind, then canceling classes would have been a mistake. In times of tragedy, we must draw strength from each other. Surely a big part of what brought us to Davidson is the sense of family that pervades this campus. What better way to experience it than by gathering with fellow students to reflect on and react to the day’s events?

To be sure, professors should have postponed any test or quiz that may have been scheduled for that day. In place of such assignments, they should have allowed students to share their emotions or engage in thoughtful discussion. And any absences should have been excused. But canceling classes altogether was not the answer. Students were in no immediate danger and could follow the latest developments as soon as their classes ended. Many students would probably have stayed in their rooms or their hall’s lounge, rather than congregating for a specific purpose. This wouldn’t have helped.

Davidson president Bobby Vagt said he respects the SGA’s proclamation, but believes the right decision was made. Going to class and maintaining some semblance of routine, he said, was a good way for students to get through the day.

The repercussions of this tragedy will surely last through the end of the school year, perhaps through the end of our Davidson careers. In the days ahead, we will again experience anxiety, sadness, and anger. We shouldn’t endure these emotions alone. We should be thankful to be part of a close-knit community that bands together in the best and worst of times.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

ISSUE: Should the administration have cancelled classes on Sept. 11, the day of the terrorist attacks?

OUR POSITION: No. Compassion, not cancellation, is the best solution in times of tragedy.

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin

Managing Editors
Tim Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Martha Hunt
Derek Loh

Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser
Jimmy Swansbrough

Photography Editors
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Rick Bold
Aaron Houck
Jeff Larrimore

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR by WILEY

YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN, AND I WISH YOU THE BEST OF LUCK

NON-SEQUITUR.COM
WILEY@NON-SEQUITUR.COM, DIST. BY UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE

Falwell and Robertson out of line with hateful comment

On Sept. 11, America learned the danger of religious bigotry and fanaticism, but when it was echoed from political policymakers in the United States on national television, the nation paid it no notice.

On Sept. 13, a mere two days after the heinous attack on America, Pat Robertson, a prominent televangelist who sought the Republican presidential nomination in 1988, was joined on his television show, “The 700 Club,” by Jerry Falwell, the president of Liberty College in Virginia and founder of the “Moral Majority.” What followed was one of the most revolting discussions one could possibly imagine. Falwell proclaimed that the attack was God giving America, “What we probably deserve.” The reason that Falwell claimed more than 5,000 people “DESERVED” to die was that we had made God angry by secularizing America. He then continued to spew hate, saying that, “The abortionists have got to bear some burden for this because God will not be mocked...I really believe the pagans, the abortionists, and the feminists and the gays and the lesbians who are actively trying to make that an alternative lifestyle, the ACLU, People for the American Way—all of them who have tried to secularize America—I point the finger in their face and say, ‘You helped this happen.’” Robertson, the loving minister that he is, responded, “I totally concur.”

This is worse than a thoughtless, insensitive comment during a time of national disaster, trying to exploit the deaths of 6,000 innocents for political gain. Imagine for a moment if days after the disaster Tom Daschle, the Senate Majority Leader, or Sen. Hillary Clinton had come out and said that the tragedy could be blamed on George W. Bush. What Robertson and Falwell said is no different. Almost as shocking as the disgusting hate that spewed from their mouths against their countrymen, whoThey dubbed “Christ-haters,” was the complete lack of coverage that came from the major news networks. It would be wonderful if this story could be ignored because these men are not important or influential, but that could not be farther from the truth. When considering the coverage of this story, it is important to consider that these two men are not your average televangelists. Instead, they are two of the most important political power brokers in Washington. They helped assure Ronald Reagan’s election in 1980. Robertson was a leading candidate for the Republican nomination in 1988, and both spoke at the Republican Convention in 1992. If you want to know why former Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge, the new Secretary of Homeland Defense, is not Vice-President, you don’t need to look much further than Robertson and Falwell.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2001

Bush knew that he would feel their wrath if he nominated a pro-choice candidate, like Ridge, for the vice-presidency. In fact, it could be argued that Robertson and Falwell guaranteed Bush the Republican nomination by undertaking an all-out assault against Sen. John McCain. When McCain responded to seemingly endless assaults on his character from Robertson and Falwell by calling them out for what they are, “agents of intolerance,” he was crushed by the backlash from both conservatives and the national media. While the story did get some coverage in almost every major newspaper, it received very little coverage from the major television networks. With all of the coverage of the attack, there were FOUR stories between CNN, ABC, NBC, CBS, Fox News, MSNBC, and CNBC. CNN, NBC, MSNBC, and CBS didn’t cover it at all. CNBC and ABC’s coverage was strictly about Falwell’s extremely weak apology, in which he said, “I sincerely regret that my comments were taken out of context.” One Fox News story called it a “footnote” to the story, giving it one paragraph worth of airtime. Another Fox News interview with Bill O’Reilly was merely about the impact these statements would have on the religious right as a movement. So while there was some coverage of these statements, it is likely that unless you watched television constantly, you would have missed this story. So how could such vile comments, which use political and religious hatred to trivialize the deaths of so many Americans, attract such little attention from the American media? It is a question that I can’t answer, but I know that it tells us something as a culture during this tragic and trying time. We cannot let hate and intolerance from such influential people go unnoticed. It was comments like this from the leaders of radical Islamic groups that led to the tragedy on Sept. 11. It should also remind us that the people celebrating in Palestine, Egypt, and Afghanistan for their own political reasons speak for the people of those nations or the Muslim faith no more than Falwell and Robertson do for the United States or the Judeo-Christian values that they purport to represent.

Tom Anstrom ‘04

Take your time in deciding whether to join a fraternity

As seniors and presidents of two Davidson fraternities, we are writing to offer advice to freshmen who are considering joining a fraternity:

1. The semester-long rush at Davidson offers an incredible opportunity to meet members of all Patterson Court organizations. While you may believe you have found the perfect house already, don’t forget that Davidson is a small community, and it is nice to have friends in many places. You have all semester to accept a bid; fraternities should respect those who take time to make their decision.

2. Beware of stereotypes. Each fraternity has committed in writing to avoid bad mouthing other houses, but unfortunately, it continues to happen. Always keep in mind the intentions of such rumors. Rather than relying on misconstrued or false information, spend time getting to know the members in all the houses so you can make your own, educated decisions.

3. Study hard. You cannot join any Patterson Court organization unless your cumulative GPA is 2.0 or above. Academics should come first at Davidson, and the relationships and experiences you gather from joining a fraternity should complement that focus.

4. Be smart. If you are going to participate in drinking activities, whether on Patterson Court or elsewhere, be careful and conscious of your behavior. There can be very serious consequences with drinking, both legal and physical, and it is just as much your responsibility as it is a house’s to maintain a safe environment.

These four points address issues we believe are important to keep in mind while making decisions about fraternities. If you pay attention to these four points, we believe you will be well on your way to having a positive, constructive, and fun Greek experience.

Sincerely,

James Jenkins
President, Kappa Alpha Order

Michael Clifton
President, Pi Kappa Alpha