By Mike ANDERSON, Editor Emeritus

Inexplicable.

With just over five minutes remaining on Monday night, the Lady Wildcats found themselves knotted in a three-point game against UNC Greensboro at Belk Arena. Yes, those Wildcats. The same team that lost to Greensboro by 39 points less than a month ago. The same team that suffered a 31-point defeat at the hands of Western Carolina on Saturday, handing the lowly Catamounts their first home victory of the season. The same depleted, injury-ridden Wildcats who had five scholarship players at the gym but out of uniform on Monday night. And yes, the same UNC Greensboro team that has won 12 of its 13 conference games by an average of almost 20 points each.

Yet somehow, some way, these two squads went the full 15 rounds on Monday night before Greensboro pulled away at the end, escaping Belk Arena with a 72-60 victory.

“Today was about us growing up as a team,” said head coach John Filar. “We were all upset with our performance on Saturday (at Western Carolina) because that was a big game for us. This was a gut check.” And—at least for 35 minutes—his team responded.

Kelly Copland led the way with 20 points, nine rebounds, four assists, and three blocks. “Kelly was a workhorse tonight,” Filar said. “She did it at both ends of the floor. She defended Brianne Dodgen; she blocked shots, she grabbed rebounds, she ran the break, she hit her free throws. She did it all.”

Janna Magette played a full 40 minutes and turned in 17 points and four assists. Kim Taylor added 12 points and nine boards. But the feel-good story of the night had to be the second-half heroics of Lindsay Shade, a 5-4 freshman guard from the Marist School in Atlanta.

Shade, one of several guards competing for playing time so far this season, came off the bench in the second half to drill three-pointers on back-to-back possessions, cutting Greensboro’s lead to three and injecting a shot of adrenaline into the squad.

“It’s so rewarding as a coach to see somebody work as hard as she has in practice, and then come into a close game with so much on the line and lift her team up like that,” said Filar. “Seeing Kelly Copland and Janna Magette exploding in celebration around her... that was special.”

Teammates, though, were just as impressed with Shade’s defensive effort: the Wildcats’ #4 helped shut down ChoRhonda Gwaltney—among the league’s quickest guards—during the second half, holding the 5-6 Spartan guard silent and scoreless.

“Lindsay played tremendous defense,” said Robyn Flewelling. “Her helping to hold Gwaltney scoreless in the second half was just as important to us as the three-pointers she hit.”

“It was a feel-good night,” said Copland. “Our team really came together. After Saturday’s loss, we came back and began to question whether or not we had it in us. Tonight just reminds us that we can play with anybody.”

Kelly Copland defends during Monday’s game against UNC Greensboro. The junior forward scored 20 points with nine rebounds, four assists, and three blocks, but UNCG won the game 72-60. Less than one month ago, the Lady Wildcats lost to the Spartans by 39 points.

Top Players
Senior pitcher Wes Self
Senior third baseman Cassidy Lundin
Junior outfielder Tim Frend
Derik Wolpert
Ryan Stroker

Starting Line-up
C James Marino
Billy Ryan
1B Stewart Sloan
Dylan Deal
B Jack Purcell
3S D.J. Dailey
3E SS. Lundin

Preseason Southern Conference Polls
Coaches Poll
1. The Citadel (6) 114
2. Georgia Southern (4) 112
3. UNC Greensboro(1) 100  
4. College of Charleston 89  
5. Furman 70  
6. East Tennessee State 59  
7. Western Carolina 51  
8. Davidson 48  
9. VMI 38  
10. Appalachian State 30  
11. Wofford 15  

Sports Information Directors Poll  
1. The Citadel (8) 117  
2. Georgia Southern (3) 107  
3. UNC Greensboro 100  
4. College of Charleston 89  
5. Furman 71  
6. East Tennessee State 66  
7. Western Carolina 63  
8. Davidson 48  
9. Appalachian State 30  
10. VMI 26  
11. Wofford 21  

Akin leads new crop of pitchers  
By JENN HIGGINS  
Staff Writer  

Brian Akin loves baseball so much that he can’t even watch it. He doesn’t go to games. He doesn’t watch the World Series. He doesn’t even have a baseball idol like Roger Clemens or Pedro Martinez. Seems odd, but then again, Akin isn’t your average Louisville Slugger.  

Growing up in Louisville, Ky., baseball wasn’t the only thing in Akin’s life. Like most athletes, he played other sports while attending high school at duPont Manual. He perfected his putting on the golf course during the fall and adapted his jump shot on the basketball court in the winter. But the spring and the summer belonged to baseball.  

By the time he began his senior season of baseball, he had already applied to Duke, Wake Forest, Washington & Lee, the University of Richmond and Davidson, all without being recruited. Akin’s high school coach saw his potential and contacted Davidson coach Dick Cooke. Cooke was willing to take a look at the pitcher, as much for his academic successes as baseball.  

“It was very important to us that Brian wanted to come here for academic reasons, long before we became interested in recruiting him as a baseball player,” Cooke said. “Davidson has an excellent reputation among liberal arts colleges, so to attract players who are truly dedicated, but care about more than just playing baseball, makes this a unique environment.”  

Akin, a prospective Chemistry major, says he is interested in following in his father’s footsteps to pursue a career in medicine. He is a resident of Basement Rich and confesses his favorite Commons meal to be chicken parmesan.  

“I really love it here,” said Akin. “Playing baseball is just an added bonus to an already great experience.”  

“Something that I believe is unique to Davidson is the fact that everyone is of the same mentality—that school comes first,” says Akin. “There really are no egos on the team. There is only a group of guys who are playing simply because they love the game.”  

For Akin, adjusting to playing at the Division I level has been a pretty smooth transition. He is a candidate for a spot in the starting rotation. At 6’3" and 185 pounds, he is an imposing force on the mound.  

“Brian has good physical size for a pitcher at this level,” noted Cooke. “He has what baseball people call ‘projectability’.” Along with that ‘projectability’, Brian has a ‘consistent velocity’ and ‘probably the best curve ball on the team’, according to Cooke.  

With 15 pitchers listed on the team roster (and only 13 who are capable of pitching), Akin could have the opportunity to see playing time in all 54 games. His bio isn’t full of awards he’s won throughout his pre-college career or even records he’s broken at his alma mater. He doesn’t come from a family full of baseball players (his older brother plays tennis at Centre College). And he even admits he still needs work on his change-up. He is a genuine guy who has always just played baseball because he likes to play baseball. And he happens to be pretty good at it too.