By Mike ANDERSON AND NANCY KOHLER
Staff Writers

Huddled together in a film room adjacent to Belk Arena, thirteen members of the women’s basketball team were stunned on Monday afternoon when a teary-eyed John Filar—the longest-running and winningest coach in program history—walked in and announced his resignation.

“It’s difficult to leave,” said Filar. “This is probably the toughest decision I’ve ever had to make.” He spoke for less than a minute, quickly articulating his decision and offering best wishes for the future as emotion filled the room. “It was difficult to look at them,” Filar said in an interview on Tuesday morning. “I didn’t want to see what was in their eyes yesterday. I knew that it would have to be a very short meeting because there was no way I could make it through a long speech. As I spoke, I saw the looks and the tears just start coming, and I couldn’t go on.”

Monday’s resignation brought to an end a decade-long tenure during which Filar reinitiated a program that had been shelved for the past six seasons. “John Filar came in here and was tasked with jumpstarting a program that didn’t exist,” said Athletics Director Jim Murphy. “He built a very competitive program very quickly, within a decade. He recruited exceptional people into the program and created a situation where we can truly build upon the foundation of success that he’s created.”

Over those ten years, Filar amassed a 102-135 record—including an impressive span between 1995-1999 when the Wildcats won 65 of 97 games. But things turned downward over the past two seasons, as Davidson sputtered to a combined 19-36 record. The team finished last season 9-19, including a 4-14 record in the Southern Conference and a 76-62 first-round loss to Wofford in the conference tournament.

“(Recent struggles) must certainly have increased the level of frustration that he felt,” Murphy said. “Coaches and players are competitive and want to win. When a team is beset with injuries and other factors that lead to losing, the frustration increases and pressures increase. I’m sure that was certainly an issue.”

Filar spoke vaguely about his motivations for stepping down. “Coaching at the Division-I level consumes an enormous amount of energy,” he said. “There comes a time when you start thinking that you need a new challenge to be re-energized. I also think it’s just a time when the program needs a shot of new energy and personality.”

Sources familiar with the program speculated that professional tension between Filar and Murphy may have played a role in the coach’s decision to resign. They say the two men had sparred over recent years about a range of issues, including gender equity issues at Davidson. Nonetheless, Murphy expressed warm regard for Filar in an interview on Tuesday night. “If there’s a coach with whom I never disagreed over the course of ten years, then neither of us would have been doing our jobs well,” said Murphy, in his fifth year as Athletics Director. “Any of our disagreements over recent years shouldn’t have played any role at all in his decision to move on.”

Player Reaction

Many team members were caught off-guard by Monday’s announcement. “When Coach Filar walked in and told us that he had to keep the meeting short because he couldn’t handle it, I knew something very bad was about to happen,” said forward Bethany Schott, a junior captain. “When he said that he had turned in his resignation papers, my reaction went from utter shock to just sadness and confusion.”

“I was stunned,” said junior guard Janna Magette. “I didn’t see it coming. I’m going to miss him. It’s hard to imagine a practice or pre-game chat without Filar. It is impossible to imagine not hearing his voice on the other end of the line when I dial the office.”

Filar cultivated a reputation as a deeply caring and thoughtful friend and father-figure to his players, many team members say. “I will miss Filar knowing me,” said Schott. “He knows what I’m about, what the program is about, what the school is about. He knows my family and my friends. Filar would do anything for any one of us, and it saddens me to think of Davidson without him.”

A number of other concerns were raised, especially from a senior class fearful that a new coach might come in and look to a younger crop of players to build upon. Next year’s squad is comprised of five rising seniors and six rising sophomores.loses to High Point

HIGH POINT, N.C. — High Point hit three homers to help hold off Davidson on Tuesday afternoon by hanging on to an 11-9 victory at Alumni Field. The Wildcats were able to close within a run on several occasions, but the Panthers never relinquished their lead. Junior Mark Wells (1-4) suffered the loss, surrendering eight runs on nine hits in six innings, walking three and striking out one. Junior Tim Frend finished the game with five RBI thanks to his triple and team-leading sixth home run. James Marino led the Wildcats with three hits, and Ryan Stroker, Frend, Cassidy Lundin, and senior Jeremiah Parvin each chipped in a pair of hits. Davidson next plays this weekend when the Wildcats host The Citadel for a three-game Southern Conference series.

Men’s tennis tops UNC Asheville

The Davidson men’s tennis team only dropped one set en route to shutting down UNC Asheville, 7-0. With the win, the Wildcats (6-6) have won three of their last four contests to reach .500 for the first time since early February. Five of the six singles matches were won in straight sets by Davidson. Freshman Bryan Stonestreet (No. 6), the hero from the College of Charleston match, had to rally from one set down to notch his team-best 10th singles victory. Davidson starts a four-match road swing Thursday, March 29, when the Wildcats travel north to take on Elon.

Lacrosse falls to Duke

DURHAM, N.C. — The Davidson lacrosse team was unable to recover after falling behind early to the fourth-ranked Duke Blue Devils and suffered a 14-5 loss at Koskinen Stadium.

The Davidsonian: WEDNESDAY, March 28, 2001

Looking Forward

Murphy announced that a national search process for a successor will begin immediately. By Tuesday night, the position was posted on the “Employment Opportunities” feature of Davidson’s website. A six-person search committee, including a player representative believed to be Bethany Schott, will examine potential candidates. “I think we’ll attract a tremendous applicant pool,” Murphy predicted. “This is not a situation where we’ll have to resuscitate a program. This is a program with a good solid foundation to build upon.” Murphy suggested that the committee would prefer a female candidate, although “nothing is set in stone.” “We'd like to have someone with experience as either a player or a coach at an institution with a strong academic profile. We’re looking for someone who is charismatic, who is a good recruiter, and who has an exceptional technical knowledge of the game.” Still, Murphy described “a good fit for Davidson” as the single most important qualification. Sources report that assistant coaches Jennifer Roos and Claire Gardin are expected to apply for the top spot. “I have encouraged the current staff to apply and I have assured each of them that should they apply they will receive full consideration,” said Murphy. While the new head coach will have full discretion over the coaching staff, some sources speculate that 2000 graduate Jen O’Brien would make an exceptional top aide. Widely considered the most prolific basketball player in school history, O’Brien has spent the past year in the coaching ranks, heading a junior varsity squad at a Connecticut high school and turning out brilliant results as an AAU coach. Reached on Tuesday, O’Brien expressed a continued interest in coaching at Davidson despite Filar’s departure. Filar, a 1974 Westminster College graduate, is considering a variety of options—coaching either at the collegiate or prep level, or perhaps exploring a different avenue altogether. Despite the frustrations of an injury-ridden season, his fire for coaching remains visibly alive. “I look back over the years and the wins and losses really don’t seem very important right now,” he said. “What’s extremely close to my heart, though, are the relationships that have been established here with the players I’ve coached and the staff I’ve worked with. It’s been truly special.”

Davidsonian Player of the Week

Bryan Stonestreet

Freshman Bryan Stonestreet won a tie-breaker, 7-4, over College of Charleston’s Milos Lazic to complete the Wildcats’ upset over the Cougars last Sunday. See story on page 13.

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Mar. 31 The Citadel (2) 12:00
Apr. 1 The Citadel 1:00
Apr. 3 High Point 3:00
Apr. 4 @Duke 7:00

MEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 29 @Elon 2:30
Apr. 3 @Wofford 3:00
Apr. 4 @UNCG 2:30

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 29 @Elon 2:30
Mar. 31 Furman 1:00

TRACK
Mar. 30-31 Raleigh Relays @ Raleigh
Mar. 31 @VMI 10:00

LACROSSE
Mar. 30 @Duquesne 4:00
Apr. 1 @Mt. St. Mary’s 1:00