WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2001

Sophomore organizes t-shirt sale to aid Red Cross
By Nick Asma
Staff Writer

The horrific events of September 11 opened the eyes of Americans to the reality of terrorism and yielded a variety
of responses around the Davidson campus. Everyone sympathized with the staggering number of victims and their families, while many contributed
to relief efforts with monetary support. To personally contribute to the crisis relief efforts, Charles Washington ’04 went a step
further—he organized a t-shirt sale to raise money for the Red Cross.

Washington wanted to organize some type of fundraiser to aid the Red Cross but was unsure of what to do,
noting especially the “difficulty to get people to participate” in most relief efforts. The events struck close to home for
him, however, and he wanted to help out “in any way possible.”

Eventually, Washington and a friend from Clemson University in Clemson, S.C., coined the idea of a t-shirt sale. They decided
to sell the shirts for $13 and donate the profits to the Red Cross. “When people are given the chance
to buy a product it creates a great chance of participation,” commented Washington. He and his friend organized the drive,
basing the sale around the Davidson and Clemson campuses. With an original goal to sell 300 shirts between campuses, Washington
emailed the student body with the shirt offer, explaining his goals and intentions. To place an order, students simply emailed
Washington their requested size and method of payment. “The entire project was done through email,” commented Washington, “and the largest
obstacles have been my lack of time and help.”

Though his personal goal for the amount sold has dropped slightly, Washington is extremely pleased with the interest and support
shown by the Davidson student body. Almost 80 shirts have been purchased already and a surprising amount of money has
been raised. “The shirts are selling better at Davidson than Clemson,” explained Washington, “and the freshmen, in particular, have bought
many.”

Asked why he chose t-shirts as the product for the fundraiser, Washington responded that t-shirts are “always tried and true.
They make a great fundraiser because people can always use extra shirts.” The shirts themselves are adorned with color graphics
and catchphrases on both the front and back. The front reads “I donated to the American Red Cross.” The back
follows with the catchy line “What’d you expect, I’m an American,” along with a graphic of the American flag and
the somber reminder “In memoriam of those that lost their lives September 11, 2001.”

The sale, which began last Thursday, continues until the 27th of September. Those interested in buying a shirt should email
Washington (chwashington@davidson.edu).

Plagiarism debate continues
Honor Code, from page 1
Dr. Clark Ross, Dean of Faculty, was “very pleased that the students representing the Honor Council are willing to work
with faculty to improve the wording of the Honor Code.” The Sept. 6The forum was the first of four scheduled
public forums this year organized by the Honor Council. If any changes to the Honor Code are to occur, these
public forums are the second step. If consensus is found in these forums, the Honor Council takes a vote on
the proposal, which is then forwarded to the Student Conduct Council. The SCC will then forward the matter to the
President of the College if it deems action necessary. In addition to these forums, other programs and initiatives are scheduled
for this year. Adam Hill, a member of the Honor Council’s Policy Committee, offered a reminder to members of the
community who might be disillusioned by the debate. “Many other universities, such as Duke, University of Colorado, and the University
of Texas, have just created codes within the last seven or eight years, whereas ours has been in existence [for
quite some time]. We have an excellent system in place, and these debates are merely attempts to improve it.”

One of Parker’s main drives in his year as chairman is to make the Honor Council more accessible and relevant
in the lives of Davidson students through increasing the Council’s activism on campus. “This year’s Honor Council is about moving
this campus community to engage in more critical thought about its Honor Code,” he stated. “The plagiarism issue directly aids
that cause.”

Celebrations, study breaks, exam time or just for fun! BEN & JERRY’S VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT. 202
South Main Street 704.892.0604 Surprise your college kids or campus friends with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for
birthday or graduation.

Cast Iron Filter, Quesadillas return to Patterson Court

The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, along with Turner and Rusk Eating Houses, will co-host Cast Iron Filter at SigEp this
Friday, September 28. Also on Friday, SigEp will reopen Davidson’s Outpost from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. Quesadillas and a
variety of drinks will be available. Davidson’s own WALT radio station will provide music. T-shirts for the event will also
be on sale. All proceeds will benefit the New York Memorial Firefighter’s Fund, to be distributed to the families of
firefighters and EMT personnel lost in the September 11 attacks. —from Staff Reports

EAC sponsors Recycling Day, September 27

In an attempt to expand the recycling program at Davidson, the Environmental Action Coalition will sponsor Recycling Day on Thursday,
September 27. The event will be held in the Knobloch Campus Center and will include information tables, the recycling game,
and a display of trash separated from recyclables. The EAC hopes that the event will make students more aware of
the need to recycle on campus. “It’s a fundamentally easy thing that you can do,” said EAC member. “Services to
promote plastic, reusable cups will be on sale in the union. Food that is packaged in cardboard, sealed in aluminum,
and served in plastic produces large quantities of recyclable trash. Yet, most of the houses ignore recycling receptacles, simply throwing
their trash in garbage dumpsters. In the coming year, the EAC hopes to involve house managers and service chairs of
the houses in an effort to promote recycling. Although more could be done, recycling participation on campus has grown each
year since the program’s beginning three years ago. Recently, the EAC worked with Dining Services to promote recycling.
