Editorial

The campus-wide forum on social life planned for Nov. 14 will be a valuable opportunity for students to let their voices be heard on a wide range of issues pertaining to social life at Davidson. If you’ve ever complained about the new Union, parties, alcohol policies, or any other aspect of campus life, this is your chance to do something about it. Come to the forum and explain your concerns to Bobby Vagt and Tom Shandley, who have pledged to do a lot of listening and very little talking.

If this forum is to address all facets of campus life, there is one other official who should be present, especially for the 60 or so students living off-campus. Town of Davidson Police Chief John Kearin should be invited to answer questions regarding the policies of local law enforcement. Kearin said last week he would be glad to attend the forum. Now it’s up to the school to extend an invitation.

It’s understandable that, in general, the administration prefers to handle disciplinary problems on its own, without the involvement of local police. That’s typical for colleges across the nation. However, a college should still strive to maintain a healthy relationship with its local police department. That’s because college students often like to engage in certain activities that are against the law, and sometimes, the police see fit to intervene. It’s important for students to have at least some degree of familiarity with how Kearin and his deputies operate, so that next time such a situation arises, a student can make informed decisions and be fully aware of the consequences.

Kearin said he has attempted on two occasions to sponsor question-and-answer sessions with students living off-campus, but no students showed up either time. He said he hasn’t seen much interest from the school in promoting such an event. Making matters more complicated, some school officials are unhappy with Kearin’s handling of the investigation into the death of Virginia Logan, a junior who died Oct. 6 in her off-campus apartment. There seems to be some tension between the two parties these days. That’s their business, but it doesn’t change the fact that Davidson students need to be familiar with the ways in which the local police affect their lives.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin

Managing Editors
Tim Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editor
Derek Loh

Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser
Jimmy Swansbrough

Photography Editors
Bin Berry
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Ree Bold
Aaron Houck
Jeff Larrimore

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR by WILEY

THE SCARIEST HOUSE

Our architecture is truly inspiring... and American

I applaud David Crow for bringing architecture to the attention of the general public. In a country where magnificent buildings are sometimes destroyed to make room for Wal-Marts and shopping malls, it is refreshing to hear of someone who is interested in the art of design. However, I take issue with some of the points he raises about Davidson’s seemingly mundane, repetitive, and boring Georgian style architecture.

First of all, Davidson has no Georgian architecture. The original buildings of the College are, in fact, mid-19th century Greek Revival. The Phi and Eu Halls are actually some of the finest examples of the style in North Carolina, if not in the entire Southeast. Second, Davidson’s architecture is unique. The style that the school’s founders decided upon was the first truly American style. Our architecture is not a cheap copy of some ancient European institution as is the case with Duke, or as David Crow asserts, Cornell.

David also calls for “architecturally distinctive” buildings for our campus, but I don’t think that would be in Davidson’s best interests. Frank Lloyd Wright, the most renowned architect of the 20th century, writes that a building should adhere to its surroundings. I think that modern architecture at Davidson would not only be ugly, but would also violate Wright’s sound principle. Let’s not fall into the same trap as Washington & Lee, a school that added a gaudy modern law building that taints an otherwise beautiful campus.is truly an original American campus. If David Crow would like to change a visual aspect of our school, perhaps he should campaign for a new color of carpet for the library.

Colby Broadwater ‘04

Anti-American? Not the brothers of Phi Delt

We read James Everett’s comments on the back page of the Libertas and he was successful in his aim of getting a response. We thought we would write a carefully constructed response to your editorial and send it to The Davidsonian. Just to inform the rest of the community about the editorial, James Everett, senior editor of Libertas, complained about two of our signs for the “Tali-Bonanza” party.

First, we’ll discuss your gross misinterpretations. The first one, depicting an American flag in the middle, had the lines, “Taliban = WORST; American Flag = BEST” at the top. This poster was made in direct response to Russ White’s commentary in the post-attack issue of Libertas, in which he claimed that the American flag disgusted him. It was simply a satirical response to what was perhaps the most anti-American piece of writing we’ve seen lately. It made us sick. But if he can say that, we can share our views, too.

The second poster said, “Unlike the Taliban, we appreciate women.” Now, what is the problem in that? The Taliban doesn’t appreciate women, and they, in turn, treat them in such a manner that reflects this fact. We, on the other hand, do appreciate women. They are the main reason that we, or all fraternities for that matter, throw parties. In typical Libertas fashion, however, you tried to make an issue out of nothing.

Now, for the other, weaker, points of your bantering. Your line, “Phi Delt finally came up with an effective weapon against Osama bin Laden: Our ability as Americans to consume copious amounts of alcohol” was completely ridiculous. For one thing, you made a sarcastic attempt to characterize our party as some futile effort to see who can chug the most Bud Lights. In doing so, you also treated every other Court party as a mere drink-off for non-intellectuals. We can only assume from your article that you look down on those who attended our party on Saturday night. Far be it from us, as members of this student body, to deny ourselves the opportunity to escape from academia for a while and, momentarily, enjoy our surroundings. You may find your comfort in reading, weaving hemp necklaces, or watching The Horse Whisperer. It doesn’t matter. But the fact that you—as the editor of a publication that often prides itself on tolerance and openness to others—demean and belittle the activities of others is blatantly hypocritical.

Your final point is the most outlandish. You claimed that we were using the war effort as a way to advertise our product. These statements were off-base for two reasons. First, you claimed that our party was a “product.” Yeah, we understand... we bought three parties for a dollar last week at the Teeter. Not at all. Our party was a service to the aforementioned section of the student body that enjoys such social gatherings. We spent considerable time and money hosting this party. Second, please realize that the signs pointed to the theme of our party: pro-American and anti-Osama/Taliban. Is this wrong? How dare Americans express pride in their own country and armed forces. The people who attended our party were dressed in red, white, and blue to show their patriotism and support for their troops, their government, and their country as a whole.

James, our members disagree with many of the issues addressed in your publication, but we do understand that it is your right to publish your beliefs, a right afforded to every American. Do not hold a “double standard” as to what can and cannot be said on this campus. Anti-American articles, such as those crafted by Russ White and Greg Harris, may anger Davidson students, but we recognize your rights of expression. For this final reason, you cannot condemn our posting of pro-American material as you so palpably did in your most recent issue. This is wrong, and it steps on everything your organization fights to preserve.

Yours in waving the flag of freedom,
The Delta House