from page 1

seniors and they had just come from their house’s official initiation ceremony in the Phi Delta Theta Hall. But, the
matter is now in the hands of the Dean’s office to decide whether the Code of Responsibility will be used.
(See official report by Park)

The incident was further discussed at the Patterson Court Council Meeting on Monday. The report by Park and Marsicano was
read to the Council. Parts of Dr. Denham’s email were also read. Aside from the meeting, PCC president Matt Arbuckle
said that PCC sees two wrongs had been done. “Phi Delt was blamed for two seniors’ antics,” said Arbuckle. “The
problem is the destruction of the book. That was wrong.” But he also said that Dr. Denham was wrong to
go straight to Phi Delt rather than to voice his concerns through those administrators whose jobs it is to handle
such affairs, like President Vagt or one of the Deans.

The E-mail

Dear Colleagues:

This is a letter to you about an unwanted encounter.

Part 1. Dedication

“Ex Libris Collegii Davidsoniensis. This book is purchased from the Fund established in memory of Samuel William Newell (1883-1966) by
the members of his family. It is the wish of the donors that this Fund be used to acquire books
which enrich the understanding of the Christian democratic heritage of Davidson students.”

These are the words on the bookplate of a book I have beside me here in my office. The cover
of this book was smashed and broken just tonight, by one of our students, in my presence. The book is
The Faber Book of Church and Clergy, ed. A. N. Wilson (London, Boston: Faber and Faber, 1992). In this book,
which is a miscellany of British Christianity from the Venerable Bede to the present day, I find, incredibly, as you
will soon learn, on page 268 in a passage about the destruction of the church at St. Hilary by the
Protestants, the following:

“But however much I tried, I could not escape from what was going on around me. I might shut my
eyes, but I still saw men standing on the holy altar, hacking at the reredos, or carrying away the image
of Our Lady. I could not close my ears to the sounds of hammering which now filled the church. I
have not yet escaped from the scenes I witnessed that day and possibly never shall: whenever I enter an old
country church and see the signs of destruction wrought there in the sixteenth century, I can hear the sounds of
hammering and the crash of falling images.”

Part 2. Why I am Writing to You.

I offer this message in this public forum because tonight I was unfortunate enough to witness—in the public forum of
the first floor of the library—something that I must characterize as both hazing and the willful destruction of our books
by members of the Phi Delta Theta club at Davidson College. And I also send this message to two former
Phi Delts I know, my father (former member of Phi Delt and Davidson ’61) and his and my friend John
Kuykendall (former member of Phi Delt and Davidson ’59). I also copy this message to our librarian, Leland Park, who
earns such well-deserved praise for his stewardship of our books and who takes such well-deserved pride in our policy of
open stacks and honor code-based circulation practices and in our wonderful library and its professional staff. I send this message
also to Tom Shandley and Craig Rinker, who oversee Student Life and sponsor Patterson Court. I copy this as well
to Clark Ross, whose academic affairs budget pays for our library books. And I copy this message to our College
President Bobby Vagt, not only because he is the final arbiter of student disciplinary cases here, but also because he
and I have passionately and forthrightly disagreed about the role of fraternities on this campus. Finally, I send this message
to Evan Shay, though I don’t think I know him, because he is listed as the Phi Delta Theta contact
person on the Davidson web pages, and thus is perhaps the leader of that club, and to Jeremiah Parvin, a
current member of Phi Delta Theta whom I do know, because he and I spoke tonight.

Part 3. What I Witnessed Tonight

At 11:35 or so tonight I was returning to the library a film I had just screened with my students.
On the first floor, gathered around the stairwell and between the reference desk and the current periodicals were some fifty
or more students, all watching what I learned was a Phi Delt initiation event for new members. Students standing near
told me what was happening as I watched in disbelief. The Phi Delta Theta club’s new members were going down
the stairs of the library with great loads of books in their arms, stacked so high they covered the student’s
face. About halfway down the last flight of stairs the student feigned a fall, or in one instance the person
was pushed, and the student and the books came crashing down the stairs to the first floor. I was told
by some of the bystanders that this was “hazing,” and that this event had been undertaken because this club can
no longer serve alcohol to its pledges. I saw two of these falls. I knew neither student who fell. I
saw several students holding paddles with Phi Delta Theta logos and wording on them. I soon began to understand what
I was seeing. After the second student “fall,” I then asked loudly—so that all in the group could hear—who would
put the books back on the shelves (maybe two hundred books lay about the floor and the stairs). First there
was no answer, but after asking again, Jeremiah Parvin, whom I know and who is a member of this club,
replied to me that “thelibrarians will put them back.” The group of what must have been mostly Phi Delta Theta
club members began quickly leaving the library at this point. I was quite angry then and asked loudly if they
were not going to put the books back, even following the retreating students out the door and asking again outside
the library if they wouldn’t put the books back on the shelves. No one outside responded. Back inside, as a
few students began stacking the books in piles, I picked up the damaged Wilson volume from the stairs and checked
it out. One student remarked toward me (but not to me), as he was leaving—and I noted the words carefully—“We
didn’t damage any property.” I held the book up high for all to see and said, again loud enough so
that all could hear, that this book was surely damaged. Jeremiah Parvin then approached me and asked, in what I
must characterize as a vaguely threatening manner, if I wanted to discuss things further. I angrily said, in essence, that
I found this sort of behavior reprehensible, destructive, and contrary to the ideals of the College. I said I felt
places for students at Davidson were wasted on people who act with such disrespect toward books. I said I felt
they were fools and cowards and that they were acting like barbarians, walking about with paddles and destroying books as
they were, and then leaving their mess for others to clean up. Several people heard this exchange. I then went
upstairs and saw where one whole shelf had been emptied (in the 808.8 section). Then I came here to my
office where I’ve been thinking for quite a while about what to do and reading in this odd book that
I checked out tonight for an unexpected reason. What I’ve decided to do is tell you all about this experience.
So there you have it, what I saw tonight in our library.

Part 4. College Policies

I include here the following excerpts from the Davidson College Code of Social Responsibility and the Davidson College Hazing Policy.
They are relevant.

From the Code of Social Responsibility:

From the Hazing Policy:

(Editors’ note: Due to space constraints, Dr. Denham’s selected passages of the Code and the Hazing Policy were edited out.
Please consult the full texts for appropriate information.)

Part 5. Some History of My Relationship with Fraternities at Davidson

Some of you may remember that over the years I have spoken out publicly against much of what the fraternities
at Davidson do and represent. Once last year, following some of my public criticism of fraternities, I was invited to
dinner at the KA house; my two young daughters accompanied me to dinner at the KA house since my wife
was at a class that evening. The officers of the KA house knew my daughters were coming along for dinner.
During dinner my daughters and I were subjected to indecent exposure by two completely naked men passing through the dining
room in front of us and yelling and knows. The students eventually apologized to me under duress, but I did
not pursue any sort of charges against them, though I surely could have. And once before, after having written an
opinion piece for Libertas and a letter to the editor in the Davidsonian, I received hate mail from several of
our students. I responded to each signed letter cordially and at length, explaining my positions. But the hate mail, too,
can be seen as directed at me because of my public opinions. I then resolved to act positively rather than
negatively toward Patterson Court. Over the last year I have avoided criticizing the fraternities and eating houses and have concentrated
instead on helping a co-ed house come to be on the court; I was involved last year in many long
hours of discussions with the founders of the new co-ed eating house and I am CoHo’s faculty advisor. Some might
suspect me of having an ax to grind with the fraternities at Davidson and it is true that I find
their presence here to stand in gross contradiction to the ideals this College professes. Yet I did not seek out
this encounter tonight and I wish to have nothing further to do with it beyond this letter to you. But
what I saw was public, in full view of many dozens of our students. And what I saw is in
clear violation of both the Code of Responsibility and of several parts of the Hazing Policy. It is a sorry
day here when students destroy books in public as part of a fraternity initiation event. The symbolism of the destruction
of books is too pitifully obvious to belabor here, yet Heinrich Heine’s words, now nearly 180 years old, echo in
my head right now and they at least need out: “Where they go about burning books, there they will soon
be burning people too.”

Sincerely yours,
Scott Denham

Dear Colleagues:

This is my follow-up on the discussions of last Friday. I have received a written apology from the appropriate representative
of Phi Delta Theta and an offer to pay all charges related to replacing the damaged book. Other things Dean
Marsicano and I have learned since Friday:

* The event was not a pledge event and thus did not involve hazing
* The men involved were both seniors, not freshmen
* The total number of books was between 30-40
* The library staff member on duty decided the trained shelvers would re-shelve the books so that he could be
sure that they were shelved correctly
* The event has, apparently, been something of a tradition by some members of Phi Delt, but the participants were
not officially required to do this by the fraternity
* The event happened after the fraternity’s formal initiation ceremonies that evening which were held in Phi Hall. I had
it checked and they left the hall in good shape.

The concern about this experience expressed by many members of the faculty is greatly appreciated. The matter is now in
the hands of the Dean of Students’ Office and the President has been fully briefed.

Leland Park
Director of Library
