Cinco de Mayo Car Wash

* Pomer Hating House will be holding a car wash on Saturday, May 5th (Cinco De Mayo) at 1:30 pm
in front of Turner House. The cost will be five bucks per car and the proceeds will go toward replacing
items sacrificed during parties and such (couches, tables, patio furniture, etc.).

Come hang out with the ladies of Turner accompanied by some good music while they clean the pollen off of
your car. The possibility of some campus-wide famous Turner food should make the Cinco de Mayo Car Wash a definite
Saturday appointment!

In last week’s Davidsonian, Lindy Baldwin’s article was mistakenly attributed to Colin Eagan. Eagan’s was attributed to Baldwin.

— Burcin Harpin
Special Correspondent

In a grizzly scene here on the campus of Highly Selective Independent Liberal Arts College Monday night, hundreds of students
armed with water guns and water balloons stormed the registrar’s office after an innovative plan for online class registration went
awry. The plan, dubbed “Webistration,” was the brainchild of the college registrar’s office but apparently fell short of students’ expectations.

Only as the deadline loomed for submitting course preferences did students learn that Technology Services had equipped the server to
handle approximately one class request every five hours.

The revolt apparently began in the library, where students began hurling books at each other in a futile attempt to
knock people out and reduce the amount of traffic clogging the server.

“You shouldn’t throw books, you barbarians. Go back to your fraternity clubs,” a professor of German protested just before a
volume of The Reason Why We Fund College Athletics struck him unconscious.

Amid the chaos, one student sprung open a nondescript door only to find a stash of water weaponry, leather straps,
and a can of Turtle Wax. Library workers later insisted that the supplies were used only for “emergency book repair.”

Armed with Super Soakers and water balloons, the student mob made its way to the main academic building. Almost 1000
students tore down the hallowed hall of learning, indiscriminately wetting posters, walls, staff members, and even other students.

“I wet myself,” said the men’s basketball team’s junior manager, who struggled with the intricacy of a water gun trigger.

Violent college mob attacks registrar

The registrar had already barricaded himself in his office when students arrived.

“Webtree was never supposed to be this bad,” he yelled from inside his office. “Technology Services told me I had
to use it or else they would keep me from accessing my email.”

But that did not appease the mob who knew that email access was simply a myth from freshman orientation.

As the students burst into the registrar’s office, he panicked and jumped out his first-floor window. He tried to escape
on a community bike, but his flight was deterred when the chain slipped off.

A swarm of students quickly surrounded him and drowned him in water gun fire. He fought the streams of water
well enough, but he could not defend himself against the water balloon launcher that a masked trio used to pelt
him in the face repeatedly with water balloons.

By nightfall, the crowd had dispersed and campus life had returned to normal — almost.

One witness did report seeing a shadowy figure about four feet tall scampering away from campus and hear the person
mumbling something about “gettin’ his sweet Internet elsewhere,” the source reported.

In response to the registrar’s accusation, Technology Services later released a statement saying that its design was state-of-the-art and even
exceeded the standards set forth in what TS considers its bible — Terwillicker and Geech’s How to Plug in a
Toaster.

“We executed code 14769er in compliance with the procedure for using the XR1 microchip at vortex speed and we had
no problems,” said a TS press release. “We vigorously stand behind our programmers and we support them, too.”

Highly Selective Independent Liberal Arts College is a highly selective independent liberal arts college for 1,601 students. Since its establishment
in 1838, the college has graduated 22 Rhodes Scholars and is consistently ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in
the country by U.S. News and World Report magazine.

Kappa Sig bowls for charity

By Patrick Baetjer
Special Contributor

Harwood Curry’s, ‘02, hand was cramped, his fingers locked in a clutching position. Curry had just bowled from 9 a.m.
until 6 p.m., testing the limits of his bowling prowess and the durability of his hand.

Curry, along with his Kappa Sigma brothers, spent Friday, April 20 bowling at the Northcross Bowling Lanes to raise money
and awareness for the March of Dimes. Bowling for Babies, Kappa Sigma’s annual community service event, raised money through the
sale of T-shirts and raffle tickets. A variety of local businesses donated gift certificates that the brothers used in a
raffle. The brothers encouraged all Patterson Court organizations to come out and bowl as well as independents. The fraternity estimates
that about fifteen non-court affiliated students came out to help raise awareness for the March of Dimes.

Kate Morris, ‘04, said, “I had a lot of fun. My arm is really sore! It’s great that these guys
are out here trying to do something to help out the community.”

Kappa Sigma members were seen rushing back and forth between the bowling alley and class, madly getting a few frames
in before school called again. Kappa Sigma Service Chair Jeremy Schwartz, ‘03, organized the event. Schwartz, a very accomplished bowler,
felt that the event was a success.

“We had a great time with Bowling for Babies again this year. As a house, it’s the best community service
project we do every year and we have a great time doing it,” he said.

Kappa Sigma thanks everyone who was able to make it out to bowl, and they look forward to doing the
project again next spring.
