ing oe
by a juggling routine presented by
ec College students.

Portnoy Will Speak at Davidson

Argentine writer and activist Alicia
Partnoy will read from her work and
speak on her experiences as a political
prisoner from 1977 to 1979 on Sunday,
April 29, at Davidson College. Partnoy’s
presentation, entitled “The Disappeared:
Writing Strategies to Re-Establish Their
Presence,” will begin at 8 p.m. in the
Gallery Room of Chambers Building.
Admission is free. Born in Argentina in
1955, Partnoy is one of the few survivors
from secret detention camps in which
about 30,000 Argentineans were “disappeared”
during that country’s “Dirty
War.” She recorded her memory of suffering
in her book, The Little School, a
narrative account written in exile of life
in the clandestine prison.

SGA sponsors lunch

Davidson College’s annual juried student
art exhibit will be in the Van Every
Gallery April 26 to May 4. The Smith
Gallery will feature the work of senior
studio art majors from April 20 to May 9.

“La Citta,” a series of charcoal drawings
on paper, 38"x50,” by Rob Harkey will
be on display April 20-25. “New Sculp-

Transfers make their ways to Davidson

By Kate Auterra
Staff Writer

The average national retention rate of students
for all four undergraduate years for public
universities across America is less than fifty percent.
Davidson College boasts a ninety percent retention rate.

This number is astounding, and we, as part
of the Davidson community, should be proud
of our institution's obvious strengths. There
are some of us, however, who choose to
remove themselves from Davidson for any
multitude of reasons.

Each year, about five percent (or twenty-two people)
of primarily the freshmen and sophomore classes transfer
out of Davidson. According to Dean Tom Shandley, many of
these students go to schools similar to Davidson: private
colleges with a small student body and an easily accessible
campus. The Class of 2003 saw twelve students transfer.

Their reasons were typical of students who

Spring Convocation was held April 18 in Love Auditorium. See www.Davidson.edu for full list and
descriptions of awards given.

Don’t like ink
smeared all over your
hands?

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

The April 11 issue of the
Davidsonian misquoted Marie Sharpe.
Her correct statement was: “Let’s do
something. Let’s write letters, let’s
make phone calls, let’s write emails.
Let’s make our voice heard. I’m sick
of talking.” Sharpe and Lee are members
of the class of 2001, not 2002, as
reported.

transfer from Davidson; either the academics
are too challenging, they have medical or
family problems, or they are dissatisfied with
the social life, size, or lack of diversity on
campus. Other students in the past had
other reasons for transferring, such as parental
pressure to be closer to home or their
intended major wasn’t offered. Shandley
discussed the few instances in which students
transfer out due to honor code violations.
This number is quite small relative to the
student body, about eight to ten students per
year.

The process of transferring does not appear
to be easy. Students must fill out a sheet with
reasons for withdrawal. This sheet asks questions
of the students to understand the decision
to leave, such as the personal, academic,
sports, or institutional reasoning that was involved.
Since Davidson takes great strides to
keep students happy, as well as maintain its
high retention rate, transferring students meet
with Dean Shandley to discuss the personal
decisions involved in leaving Davidson.

Transferring into Davidson isn’t simple,
either. In the past, anywhere between thirty
and ninety people have applied for admission
as transfer students. Last year, there were
thirty-four applicants and only seventeen were
admitted. It is obviously competitive to get
into Davidson, as we all know, but transferring
might not be that easy.

Laura Bondeson '03, a transfer student from
Georgetown University, said that she came to
Davidson because she wanted a smaller undergraduate
feel than Georgetown, and though
the students at Georgetown were smart, they
weren’t as well-rounded individuals as
Davidson students. Though she liked
Georgetown, she said she couldn’t imagine
herself graduating from such a place.

Bondeson is just one example of the students
who come to Davidson as transfers. A
few girls on her hall are transfer students, and
she said that they all seem to be happy about
their decision. The administration hopes that
that happiness is what causes 95% of Davidson
students to return each year.

Photo by: College Communications

Located in quaint downtown Mooresville
enjoy your dining
experience in comfortable elegance
historical house
