Fully look to their coaches for advice and leadership. A bond should be formed between the competitor and their instructor that braves any hardship, but at what point may a coach sacrifice that bond for the necessity of victory? During this past women’s soccer season, a man sacrificed that bond and systematically destroyed the self-confidence of one of my friends. He made her hate one of the few things in her life that she could love carelessly. My friend played for a Division-I Southern Conference team this fall, and because of a man so reckless in the role of coach, my friend now abhors the spirit of competition. My friend was an above-average player, and she boasted that “love of the game” seldom found on the collegiate level where, all too often, athletes seek money and glory. In her senior year of high school, she tore her ACL and missed the season adults reminisce about. She fought rehabilitation woes and college anxiety to secure a slot on a Division-I team, comforted at last that she could recapture the adrenal rush of team vs. team, friend vs. foe. Her coach ruined the ideal of sport for her over a four-month span. He used my friend as a practice dummy for the starters without instructing her play. He left her off the traveling team list as the only healthy player staying home. Above all, he had his assistant coach tell my friend 10 minutes before the Southern Conference quarterfinal game that she could not don her jersey because he forgot that only 18 athletes could dress. I traveled to Greenville this past weekend. I watched my friend turn to me and smile after her team lost its championship shot because her hell was over at long last. She made me promise the night before not to confront her coach verbally or physically, despite the chivalric urges of my Tennessee upbringing. I saw in her smile the bitter benefits of the contemporary coach’s win-at-all-costs mentality. I condemn that mentality with every fiber of my being. No statistic or “W” on a score-sheet is worth the destruction of a young adult’s confidence. An individual corrupts the name of “coach” when those seeking instruction feel like pawns for inhuman and selfish hands. I understand the pressures for success that pile upon a collegiate coach, but at no point should an athlete feel inadequate and superfluous. College sports should as I attend Davidson: and her situation does not apply to many of you. But there are the stories, rumors I’ve heard of love sacrificed for victory on this campus. Take my anecdote for what it’s worth to you: example, allegory, or emergency toilet paper. But for the love of all that is Davidson, don’t settle for the high school memories.

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Ending the season with a three-game winning streak, the men’s soccer team seems primed to be a force in the Southern Conference tournament, which begins Thursday evening in Charleston, S.C. With wins over conference rivals Wofford and Georgia Southern, the ’Cats secured a number two seed for the upcoming tournament and will face Georgia Southern again in the quarterfinal round. Following a tough loss to Furman only a few nights earlier, the Wildcats were looking to reassert their dominance against a feisty Wofford squad in their final home game of the season. The Terriers broke into the scoring column first, but senior forward Chris Norbet, who won SoCon player of the Week honors this week, evened the score only minutes later with a goal assisted by fellow seniors Erik Ozimek and Justin Saunders. Davidson took a one-goal advantage in the 37th minute as junior Joel Sadler notched an unassisted goal. The ’Cats closed out the half with a 4-1 lead as Norbet tallied two more for his first hat trick of the season. Saunders and Ozimek assisted on Norbet’s second goal and his third score came off a pass from senior defender David Ramich. Once again, Wofford opened the half with a quick tally, but Ozimek extended Davidson’s lead again to three with a penalty kick in the 74th minute. The Terriers, however, would not go softly into the night as they netted two quick scores in the last eight minutes, one a Davidson own-goal, to close the gap to one. Davidson withstood the Wofford attack in the final few minutes to preserve the lead as the ’Cats improved.to 10-7 on the season and 5-2 in conference play. Of special note, all three Davidson keepers combined for their first joint victory of the season. “Every conference game is a battle, and Wofford proved their resilience to come,” remarked head coach Matt Spear. “Chris Norbet had three tremendous goals to get to 17 on the year and Joel Sadler provided sparkling midfield play. Tonight was the final home game for our eight seniors; a nice finale.”

Against Georgia Southern, Norbet proved again to be the go-to guy, scoring two goals en route to a 4-2 Wildcat win. Norbet netted both his goals in the first half, increasing his season total to 19. The senior striker’s first goal came off an assist from senior Jon Tetirick and the second from a combination of passes by Sadler and freshman Dan Ferriter. The Eagles pulled within one in the 34th minute, but Sadler found the back of the net off a loose ball in the box to give the ’Cats a 3-1 lead going into halftime. Ferriter rounded out the scoring for Davidson in the 52nd minute as he knocked home a rebound from the top of the box for his fourth tally of the year. Georgia Southern scored once more on a penalty kick midway through the second frame, but it was not enough. Senior Soren Johnson notched six saves to earn the win and secure second place for Davidson in the Southern Conference.

“This was an important win to further elevate our momentum and confidence going into the Southern Conference tournament,” said Spear. Spear is optimistic about the postseason, “We feel good about our number two seed, and playing Georgia Southern for the second time in six days in the first round will be an interesting challenge. We have talked all year about believing and peaking in November. The performance, composure, and attitude needed to win a conference championship and the resulting NCAA Tournament bid are there.”

UNCG eliminates ’Cats from semifinal bid
By Liz Gross
Staff Writer

Davidson’s hopes for impressive tournament play were shattered as a roller coaster season came to an end for the women’s soccer team last weekend. The Wildcats entered the tournament as the No. 6 seed, coming into play after ending their regular season competition with a four-game losing streak. Davidson’s first game pitted them against No. 3 seed UNC Greensboro, who handed the Wildcats a 0-3 defeat less than two weeks earlier.

On Friday night, though, Davidson’s defense was up to the Spartans’ challenge. The game was scoreless after the first half as both teams struggled to finish their scoring opportunities. It wasn’t until the final stretch of the second half that the Spartans scored the game-winning goal. Greensboro’s Jennifer Kennedy connected on a corner kick from Jamie Ableman, sending a header into the back of the net to eliminate the Wildcats from the tournament.

“After a season of injuries, 17 of our 18 players were back in action for our final game. It was gratifying to play once more with most of the team,” said senior captain Penn Graves. “Unfortunately our hostilities towards UNCG were left unresolved with the 1-0 loss.”

Davidson’s freshman goalkeeper, Sarah Hobart, continued her impressive return from injury as she posted ten saves during the evening. Sophomore Leigh Anne Hoskins led Davidson’s offense with two shots, as the Wildcats were out-shot by the Spartans 4-17.

“I think the team played with more heart Friday night than any other game this season, so it was a hard loss,” said senior Natalie Cox. “It no longer stands as a loss for me though, because I will always remember this game as the last one that I played with some of the best friends I’m sure I will ever know.”

The UNCG Spartans went on to win the tournament, shutting out Furman in the semifinals and defeating the No. 1 seed Western Carolina in double overtime to win the championship. The Wildcats end the season 7-14 overall and 6-4 in conference play. The women battled injuries throughout the fall, making it difficult to sustain any momentum as the season progressed. However, the team looks to rest up and be ready to charge back into action next season.

Do you love Davidson?
Do you want to help shape the future of Davidson?
The Office of Admission and Financial Aid will be interviewing for new Tour Guides!
Call ext. 2233 to schedule an interview.
Last day for interviews is November 20.