DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2001 VOLUME 93, NUMBER 9

SGA gives green light to renew Red Bike program

SGA committee authorizes continuation of endangered community bike program, suggests changes

By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

Several weeks ago, the SGA debated the viability of the Red Bike Program in light of the fact that much
of the fleet had disappeared or been severely damaged. Since those discussions, 18 of the program’s 20 bikes have been
recovered, inspected, and assessed for damages by Davidson Outdoors. They remain in the hands of DO, locked up, safe, and
off the streets. The two bikes still at-large are believed to be somewhere in the Davidson/Cornelius area. A joint effort
of the Davidson Campus Police and the Davidson Police Department is leading the search for these bikes.

The SGA recently created an ad-hoc committee to deal with the Red Bike Program and its issues, at the suggestion
of senators Kevin Epps ’02 and Adam Gerstenmier ’05. Gerstenmier, chair of the committee, said that the SGA had been
working with Davidson Outdoors to assess the damage and cost of repair for the 18 recovered bikes. In a Nov.
1 meeting, it was decided that the Red Bike Program would be continued, and up to $217 was approved as
payment to Davidson Outdoors for parts and the fixing of the bikes.

The bikes will remain out of the hands of Davidson students until a new official policy regarding the program can
be adopted concerning the treatment and availability of the bikes. The only confirmed item of policy that will affect the
future Red Bike Program is that the bikes will be collected and locked up each Friday for the duration of
the weekend.

When a member of Davidson Outdoors was asked if she thought this new policy would curtail the bike abuse, she
replied, “I would be doubtful because the level of disrespect for community property does not seem to be limited to
weekend behavior. We fix a bike, a specific bike, and we send it out on campus and it comes back
within a week, and has damage that is not normal wear and tear. The bikes are being abused.” The student
went on to say, however, that “I think it’s a really useful program. I think it should be continued.” The
ad hoc committee’s main challenge now is to develop a policy that keeps the bikes safe and functional for the
community.

---

Senior midfielder Eric Ozimek fends off a Paladin defender during last week’s game against Furman. See page 12 for details.
Lindsay Ferguson

---

Student leaders prepare for forum on social life

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

Several student leaders say next Wednesday’s campus-wide forum on social life needs to address issues ranging from alcohol and open
party policies to Union events. College president Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley will moderate the forum at
8 p.m. in the Smith 900 Room. The floor will be open to everyone. Director of Campus Police Sam McKelvey
and Patterson Court adviser Grahaeme Hesp will also attend and be available for questions.

The Davidsonian asked fraternity and eating house presidents, and Patterson Court Council and Union Board members to share their thoughts
on the forum. Here are excerpts from those who responded:

Forums like this one should be conducted regularly. From the Union Board’s perspective, this kind of conversation is particularly important
given that the Board has been entrusted with spending a substantial portion of students’ activities fee. Although I'd estimate that
attendance has been higher at Union Board events this year, the opening of the new Union presents a unique time
to gauge students’ satisfaction or dissatisfaction with what goes on around here—and to hear of any good ideas. I'd love
to hear people’s ideas about how the Union Board can better serve the students.
Will Parker
Union Board Presidentavailable to students but also ensures the bikes’ safety and longevity. As to whether the bikes will need
to be checked out from the Union and other such suggestions, Gerstenmier maintained that he hopes “to allow the program
to do what it was designed to do in the first place.” This vision, for Gerstenmier and Epps, means that
they “both want to see the bikes free on campus and not checked out.” There is currently no date set
when the new bike program will be official and the bikes

see Red Bikes, page 2

CCRL hears petition to extend party hours

Student proposes extension of weekday party hours; cites frustrations with current regulations

By Linny BALDWIN
News Editor

The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), an advisory body composed of students, faculty, and staff, has received a
proposal to redress what some students see as a problem with the party hours on campus. Gray Patterson ’03, who
made the presentation to CCRL last week, indicated that the current policy of ending all parties at 12 p.m. on
weeknights is putting a damper on students’ social life.

“Students are becoming frustrated and confused that they’re being told to go home at a certain time, being told they
can’t stay out and socialize or gather,” said Patterson. “After experiencing it myself, I wanted to fix the problem.”

Patterson first met with President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Thomas Shandley in order to determine an appropriate course
of action. Vagt and Shandley suggested that he meet with CCRL. Patterson, an SGA senator, also wrote a resolution recommending
that the current policy be evaluated and reconsidered (please see page 4). The resolution passed with only four dissenting votes.

SGA President Joey Harris ’02, also a member of CCRL, agreed with Patterson that something needs to change. “There is
definite discontent about the social life on Patterson Court and everyone I’ve talked with agrees that there is a problem,”
said Harris. “Whether extending party hours is the best solution to that problem remains to be seen.”

Evan Shay ’02, president of Phi Delta Theta, had a similar take on the current social situation. “As the president
of a Patterson Court organization and a student, I believe strongly that the administration needs to consider making some changes
in its handling of court issues. Patterson Court is a relatively well-controlled and confined area where students should be urged
to socialize and escape from academic stresses for a few hours. Unfortunately, these hours are becoming less available.”

Patterson’s first impulse was to extend party hours because the current hours, in his view, are quite limiting. “The average
Davidson student does work [as late as] 10, 10:30 at night, and after that they want to go out. But
they’re being told that they can’t do that after 12, and many feel that social life is being limited. The
police are ‘herding’ students around the Court and the Senior apartments.” Patterson therefore suggested extending the “party hours” until 1
a.m.

On Thursday, November 1, Patterson made a 20-minute presentation to CCRL. He explained what he wished to change, and then
opened up the floor for discussion. The main concern expressed by those present at the meeting was how the study
and sleep habits of students in nearby dorms would be affected. Shay, who was present at the meeting, argued that
“it seemed unfair that the school had the right to in essence tell students when they had to go to
bed. If there aren’t

see Party Hours, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
WALT 1610 AM readies for a new broadcast season, from its new station.

Arts & Living 5-6
We review the best, but mostly the weirdest flicks around

Perspectives 7-8
Why the Yankees don’t deserve another championship

Sports 9-12
All you need to know about the men’s basketball season just around the corner
