THE Davidsonian

Evansville win rallies 'Cats 4-2 win against Aces bolsters soccer confidence

By Richard Connolly
Staff Writer

Off to a 5-1 start and ranked 16th in the nation by collegesoccer.com, the men’s soccer team began last week ready to run with the best. Unfortunately, a loss at South Carolina and a tough road trip to the Midwest has left the team at 6-3, struggling to recover the form that seemed destined for greatness.

Against USC, ranked No. 6 in the collegesoccer.com poll, Davidson grabbed an early lead as senior Chris Norbet connected with fellow senior Jon Tetirick, who tallied his first goal of the season in the 28th minute. The Wildcats’ defense held the Gamecocks at bay in the first half, but the Davidson lead was soon to be buried in the “graveyard”—USC’s affectionately nicknamed field. The Gamecocks came out charging in the second half, tying the score just eight minutes into the half. Uncharacteristically, the defense fell apart, eventually yielding four goals to their mighty opponent in the 4-1 loss.

“This was a tough loss against a tough team,” said head coach Matt Spear. “We were without Erik Ozimek due to a suspension, which hurt us somewhat. Looking ahead, we will have several other opportunities against ranked opponents this season, notably Clemson and Furman, which will be good challenges for us.”

Following the USC debacle, the ’Cats traveled to Cincinnati to take on the Xavier Musketeers in hopes of reasserting their winning ways. Davidson played well, out-shooting the opposition 9-8, but a fantastic individual effort by Musketeer Logan Wallace, who registered a hat-trick, had the ’Cats trailing 4-0 at halftime. Despite dominating possession of the ball throughout the second half, the Wildcats were only able to muster a lone goal, again off the foot of Tetirick, in the 55th minute. One bright spot of the evening was freshman goalkeeper Bart Creasman, who covered the net in the second half, shutting out the Musketeers in only his second appearance of the season.

“Xavier was looking for a breakout game and they got it. It was a painful loss in that if we had played well against them we could have won; we just weren’t up for the task,” noted Spear.

Eager to snap this unprecedented two-game skid, the Wildcats made the trek to the University of Evansville in Indiana, where the Purple Aces were anxiously awaiting the ‘Cats’ arrival. “Coming into the game, the team was excited and ready to redeem themselves. It was our third game in five days on the road, but I felt we were ready to play,” Spear said.

The Evansville defense, which had only given up 5 goals in 6 games, could not contain Davidson’s explosive offense, as the ’Cats scored the last three goals of the game to secure the come-from-behind victory. Norbet was once again the go-to guy, as he netted two goals and notched an assist. Junior Joel Sadler gave the ’Cats an early lead in the 11th minute when he knocked home his first goal of the season, assisted by Ozimek and Norbet. Evansville bounced back, tallying two scores to take the lead midway through the first half.The week, Tetirick pulled the Wildcats even in the 35th minute. Next, Norbet took over, scoring the game-winner in the 45th minute off an Ozimek pass, then putting the game away in the 48th minute, netting his second goal off an assist from Justin Saunders. Soren Johnson, coming off two tough games, played a solid 90 minutes in net, making four saves to earn the win. “Ending the week with a win got us going in the right direction,” Coach Spear remarked. The Wildcats continue their road trip next Thursday when they head to Charleston, S.C. to challenge Southern Conference foe, The Citadel. The next Davidson home game will be Tuesday, Oct. 9 at 7 p.m. against another conference rival, Appalachian State.

OPTICAL SHOP NORMAN OF LAKE LICENSED OPTICIANS

Second-half misfortunes doom 'Cats in Missouri
By Liz Gross
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s field hockey team traveled to Springfield, Missouri this past weekend for a three-day battle. The Wildcats faced Northern Pacific conference rivals Southwest Missouri State on Friday and Saturday, as well as St. Louis University on Sunday. Davidson lost all three games, two within the final minutes.

Friday’s game versus SMS saw the ’Cats fall behind early, as they ended the first half down 5-1. Junior Jessica Barton scored the lone goal for Davidson at 21:01 in the first half, off an assist from sophomore Kathleen Fenn. The ’Cats held the Bears to one goal in the second half, finishing the game with a score of 6-1.

Davidson fought back defensively on Saturday, as it once again went up against SMS. The game was scoreless until the second half, when the Bears tallied two goals in the last seven minutes of the game to hand the Wildcats their second consecutive loss.

The ’Cats dominated St. Louis University during their third and final game on Sunday. The Davidson women out-shot their opponents 13 to 8, but were unable to find the back of the net more than once. Davidson jumped to the lead at 8:53 in the first half, as Fenn scored her first goal of the season with an assist from Courtney Hughes. The Billikens responded with a goal at 32:53 in the second half to tie the match at one. The score remained deadlocked until the end of the game, forcing play to continue. With just under nine minutes left in the overtime period, St. Louis scored and secured the win.

Freshman goalkeeper Sarah Nolan played all three games over the weekend, posting a total of 16 saves for the ’Cats. The women now face a five-game losing streak and a 0-3 record in conference competition. With an overall record of 4-6, the Wildcats will be hungry for a win as they face Duke on Oct. 7. Game time is at 2 p.m., in Durham, N.C.

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for birthday or graduation celebrations, study breaks, exam time, or just for fun!

BEN & JERRY’S VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
202 South Main Street
704.892.0604

What are you doing next semester? STUDY ABROAD