By Colin EAGAN
Staff Writer

Four staff members of the Residence Life Office will seek residence away from Davidson beginning next year. RLO Director and
Assistant Dean of Students Kurt Holmes will depart after the completion of this semester, as will the campus’s three area
coordinators, Erin Domagalski, Amy Hector, and Troy Williams.

Holmes arrived on campus nine years ago, when he assumed the role of RLO assistant director and Patterson Court advisor.
This summer he will travel to the College of Wooster in Ohio, where he will soon begin his first term
as dean of students. The offer of this position came as a true surprise to Holmes, who had submitted a
resume on a whim last fall. “I put a single resume out there as a fluke and thought ‘wouldn’t this
be nice’ but didn’t expect it to come through,” he laughed. “Two weeks ago they called to make an offer.”

Family connections had drawn Holmes to Wooster for some time, although he has never experienced any real desire to leave
Davidson. His decision to depart reflects, he says, the pursuit of a rare opportunity rather than any need to get
away. “I wasn’t doing a search,” he explained. “I didn’t have 20 or 30 resumes out there, I literally had
one. It was quite a surprise.”

Resultantly, Holmes’ departure has brought bittersweet emotions. What will he miss most about Davidson? “We have a great RLO staff,
both on the student, RA hall counselor and professional level,” the Ransomville, NY native commended. “And Davidson as an institution
is a wonderful place to work. There are wonderful students who come here, great faculty and staff, financial resources that
are better than most colleges and universities.”

The honor code in particular has earned the Director’s respect. “Going back nine years, the most striking thing when I
got here was the strength of the honor code,” Holmes recalled. “Before I was used to asking for the truth.
When I began work here, there was a Patterson Court violation and I said to the student accused ‘I really
need to know if you were involved.’ He said ‘yes’ and I said ‘no, I really need to—did you say
yes?’ It speaks to the integrity of the students.”

During his time on campus, Holmes has completed such achievements as introducing area coordinators on campus and overseeing the construction
and opening of the West dormitory. He has enjoyed his opportunities to interact with students throughout his time here, in
both the capacities of RLO director and assistant dean of students. And he has made many friends. “We lose an
incredible personality and an extraordinary human being,” recognized President Bobby Vagt, who commended Holmes’ unique ability to deal with the
rigors of orchestrating Residence Life. “It’s a role where there are spikes built into the chair. As soon as you
sit down, people are going to start throwing things at you, and Kurt always pursued his task with an active
sense of equity.”

Outpost, from page 2

[with their programming],” remarked Vagt. He expressed ambivalence about whether such broad-based social activities should be centered in a place
other than the new Campus Center. DIA President Carlos Carreras echoed some of Vagt’s concerns. “The Knobloch Center will be
an appealing place, and we want to direct students towards it,” he asserted. He feels, however, that DIA does not
“pose a threat” to the Campus Center. “We don’t believe that anything on campus could compete with the new Center.”

Furthermore, Carreras emphasized that DIA is not simply a social organization. “We are a social group, but we don’t offer
only social opportunities,” he explained. According to him, DIA also focuses on exposing students to international culture and issues through
programs and educational events. Carreras judged that DIA had communicated its requests to Vagt and had responded to his concerns.
Though the future of the Outpost remains uncertain, Vagt confirmed that “the question is not DIA or some other organization.”
Rather, at present the other alternative would be to keep the building a multi-purpose space open to all groups on
campus. Vagt expects to have made a decision in the next two or three weeks. He hopes that the decision
will be a lasting one. “We don’t want to give [the Outpost] to somebody and then take it right back,”
he mused."I've been in denial that Kurt is leaving and I’m sure I won’t know what I'll miss most until
I experience his not being here,” said Sharon Leahy, Residence Life Assistant. “He’s a wonderful ‘boss,’ friend, and team leader.”

As Holmes prepares to leave Davidson, he can’t but guess at the new challenges that await in his new position
at Wooster. “But I can tell you one thing,” he remarked, glancing around the converted ROTC meeting room in basement
Belk. “Never again will I have an office this big!”

Leaving with Holmes at the end of this year are Davidson’s three area coordinators, Erin Domagalski, Amy Hector, and Troy
Williams. Area coordinators live on campus, where their primary responsibility is to serve as a support system for student RAs
and hall counselors. “They’re the go-to person where there is a problem or a crisis,” described Holmes. “They deal with
student help programming to damage and fire. It’s kind of a crazy job in that respect, and hours are irregular.”

For this reason, turnover in area coordinator positions is frequent. “Area coordinator positions as live-ins on campus are typically one
to three years,” continued Holmes, who has himself held such a role in the past. “Extending your undergraduate experience as
far as housing goes in the professional world is not something that most people do for a long time.”

Domagalski completes her second year as an area coordinator at Davidson this spring. Family and friends now draw her back
to her home state of New York. “I will desperately miss my student contact and the friendships I have made
with students on this campus,” she said. “I guess I would be lying if I didn’t also admit I will
miss the weather. I was visiting NY this past weekend and they still had two plus feet of snow and
folks were skiing and snowmobiling. In April I prefer to be playing Frisbee and sailing!”

In addition to her work as area coordinator, Domagalski played an important role in developing many internal RLO events and
activities. Hector has also served on campus for two years. She leaves to meet the needs of her growing family.
“My husband is a student at UNC-Greensboro and we are trying to find a place closer to Greensboro to live.
Right now, he has a three-hour commute time and that takes a lot of time away from our family. We
have a 7-month-old son now and would just like more family time.”

What at Davidson will be most sorely missed? “Absolutely, without a doubt, my students,” enthused Hector, who has had the
opportunity to develop many relationships not only through RLO, but such programs as Emerging Leaders on campus. She hopes the
role of area coordinators will become increasingly more student-oriented in future years at Davidson. “The Residence Life Office, in general,
is very student-centered and so we as the professional staff are always trying to find better ways to support the
residents of this campus,” she continued. “The Area Coordinators are key in making those changes whether it be through collaboration
with the other professionals in our office or with the student staff.” Hector has been generally described by most students
who know her as “cool.”

Williams has worked at Davidson for three years. He began work as a faculty member, teaching Russian language and literature,
and took on the added responsibility of area coordinator beginning his second year on campus. Having previously served as an
area coordinator in the student development office at Duke University, Williams welcomed his return to working with college students. “I
think [area coordinator] is an excellent position,” he commented, “providing vital support for our student staff members and a readily
available resource for our students.” He will be moving westward following Commencement to another academic position that will allow him
to be closer to home.

Though the simultaneous departure of all three area coordinators this year presents an inconvenience, it was not necessarily unanticipated. “Due
to the stepping stone nature of the position, it’s not a surprise,” Vaght commented. “But we are indebted to all
of them, and sad to see them go.”

2001 Reynolds Directors: Thursday, 7:30 p.m. Love Auditorium. FREE ADMISSION. Call Chambers Building for information.
