12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2001

First half woes
By Jackie Davidson
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the Wildcats learned never to underestimate the value of veteran leadership. The absence of veteran quarterback Paul Nichols, out for the season after suffering a torn ACL against Hampden-Sydney, proved disastrous for the Wildcats (4-4) as the offense struggled mightily in the first half, committing six turnovers en route to a 41-27 loss against the Centre Colonels (8-1).

Davidson’s first offensive play foreshadowed the ’Cats’ doom when a fumbled hand-off from freshman quarterback Andrew Pickens to senior running back Ward Gibson gave Centre superb field position on the Wildcats’ 32-yard line, resulting in a Centre touchdown just 2:46 into the game. Four plays into the Cats’ next drive, Pickens mishandled the snap, resulting in another Wildcat fumble inside their own territory. Once again, the Centre offense capitalized on the Davidson turnover, as quarterback Drew Mildren scored on a quarterback sneak to put the Colonels up 14-0.

Davidson’s offensive woes continued on their next series when the ’Cats committed yet another turnover, failing to score despite having driven deep into Colonel territory. After a 25-yard completion from Pickens to sophomore Barrett Johnson positioned the ’Cats at the Centre 5-yard line, the Colonel defense denied the run on two straight attempts, forcing Davidson into a passing situation on third down. Pickens, however, was intercepted as he attempted to find a receiver in the back of the end zone.

Following the interception, the Colonels marched 80 yards on seven plays, including a 37-yard run by Travis Bell, for the touchdown, making it 21-0. Centre would later score 10 more points off Davidson turnovers, giving them a commanding 31-0 halftime lead.

Davidson finally scored late in the third period when Pickens found senior Mike Tarver on a fade pass to the corner of the end zone. Seconds later, after sophomore linebacker Darryl Childers intercepted Mildren, Pickens threw another strike to Johnson for the ’Cats’ second TD of the day. While the ’Cats managed to pull within two touchdowns of the Colonels, the first half deficit proved too much to overcome. With Centre leading 34-20 and 2:30 remaining, Davidson attempted an onside kick. Though the kick took a favorable high bounce, the Wildcats were unable to recover and the Colonels went on to a 41-27 victory.

Tarver and Johnson combined for 13 catches and 191 yards in the losing effort. Pickens, despite the four turnovers, managed to rack up otherwise impressive numbers, completing 16 of 35 attempts for 247 yards, prompting praise from his teammates. Junior defensive lineman J.J. Rice described Pickens as “crisp” and “sharp,” saying, “other than the turnovers, he looked good out there, and the turnovers are understandable considering it was his first start.”

The ’Cats will conclude their 2001 campaign at home next week against conference rival Austin Peay. They will once again be without Nichols, who is unavailable after suffering a season-ending ACL tear. According to Nichols, the injury occurred two weeks ago against Hampden-Sydney. “I scrambled during the Hampden-Sydney game and hurt my knee,” he said, “but I didn’t feel it pop so I continued to play.” The full extent of the injury became obvious on Monday, when immense swell-

Men’s soccer team readies for postseason
By Richard Connolly
Staff Writer

At the beginning of the season, men’s soccer coach Matt Spear outlined his squad’s plan for the year: “The primary goal is to win the Southern Conference and advance to the NCAA Tournament. The next time we can get to the tournament will put Davidson men’s soccer back on the national map.”

Saturday’s loss to Furman dashed any hopes of the Wildcats capturing the SoCon regular season crown, but, judging from their performances against the Paladins and the College of Charleston, the team should feel optimistic about its chances of securing an NCAA bid.By winning the conference tournament against Charleston, the ’Cats were looking to end a three-game losing skid and continue their unbeaten streak at home, as they were 4-0 at Richardson Stadium entering the match. Senior forward Jon Tetirick, in his first game since recovering from a leg injury, provided the offensive spark that Davidson needed, netting two goals en route to the 2-1 win. Tetirick’s first goal was unassisted, as he took the ball from the top of the penalty area, avoided several Cougar defenders, and slotted a clean shot into the bottom left corner in the 54th minute.

Only 17 minutes later, fellow senior Erik Ozimek set up what would be the game-winning goal, lofting a pretty ball to the feet of Tetirick, who skillfully placed the cross into the back of the net for his second tally of the evening. Following Davidson’s second goal, the game turned into a physical battle, as the referee issued four yellow cards and three red cards in the final 20 minutes of the match. The Cougars got on the scoreboard late in the second half, but it was not enough as freshman goalkeeper Bart Creasman recorded two saves on his way to earning the victory.

“Charleston was a very physical team and we had to match their grit in order for our soccer abilities to rise to the top,” noted Spear. “Not getting a first-half goal inspired Charleston, who began to think an upset was in order. But improved second-half play, led by Jon Tetirick’s two spectacular goals, won the day.” Spear continued, “It was great to have Jon back after three games away due to a hamstring injury. As an attacking, creative, and experienced forward, he is critical to our post-season plans. He stepped up big time today. Great players do that.”

A tingling in Nichols’ knee prompted a trip to the orthopedist, which revealed the tear. “That same night the doctor called and told me that I had completely torn my ACL,” said Nichols. In the interim since, Nichols has scheduled surgery but is not expected to return until spring practice. So Pickens will get his second start in Saturday’s season finale. Kickoff is slated for 1 p.m. at Richardson Stadium.

Caroline Hauser

Midfielder Dan Ferriter ’05 offered strong support off the bench against Charleston. The Wildcats entered the Furman game confident that they could play with the Paladins, but desperately wanting to prove that Davidson was capable of beating a ranked opponent. Although 21st-ranked Furman controlled play for much of the first half, the game remained tied until the 43rd minute, when the Paladins’ Anthony Esquivel finally capitalized on a penalty kick opportunity. Early in the second frame, Furman came close to extending its lead, but sophomore defender David Peoples made a brilliant play on the goal line to keep the ’Cats within a goal.

Davidson dominated possession for most of the second half, as the Wildcats kept the ball in their attacking third and generated many scoring opportunities. Tetirick narrowly missed a rebound opportunity midway through the half and was stuffed by the Furman goaltender on a breakaway with just over 18 minutes left in the game. With time winding down, Ozimek fought to tie the match, but the Paladins keeper blocked his well-placed free kick from 20 yards out to all but secure the 1-0 win for Furman. Senior goaltender Soren Johnson played a fantastic game in net, despite the loss. “Although Furman had more shots, we felt continued on page 15.”

Inspirational Quote of the Week
“Many of life’s failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.” — Thomas Edison

THE WEEK AHEAD

FOOTBALL
Nov. 10 - Austin Peay 1:00

Women’s Soccer
Nov. 8-11 - SoCon Tournament TBA (Greenville, SC)

VOLLEYBALL
Nov. 9 - E. Tennessee State 7:00

WRESTLING
Nov. 10 - Appalachian State 5:00
Nov. 10 - West Virginia Open All Day (Morgantown, WV)

Men’s Soccer
Nov. 10 - @ Georgia Southern 1:00

MEN’S BASKETBALL
Nov. 8 - Finland 7:00