from page | well. The Chaplain’s office and Davidson College Presbyterian Church helped fund a trip for 13 students to
Nicaragua. Accompanied by Chaplain Rob Spach and DCPC Associate Minister Kathy Beach-Verhey, the participants worked with the Nicaragua Council of
Protestant Churches, helping with service work and meeting with human rights advocates, politicians, and other prominent figures in Nicaragua’s political
and social life. Throughout their trip, Davidson students were exposed to the harsh reality of politics and living conditions in
the region. “The trip was unbelievably challenging and intense,” commented Dan Morris ’03, who traveled with the group to the
rural towns of Susuli and San Martin as well as the Nicaraguan capital, Managua. “We saw and heard things that
really made us change our ideas about poverty and politics among many other things.” Stops on the Nicaragua tour included
such locations as the Managua Dump, disease-infested home to desperate hundreds. “We lived and worked alongside the poor,” said participant
Kate Fiedler ’03. “We went to bed on wooden platforms or on the dirt floor. We woke up at 4:45
AM with the families to start making tortillas for the day. We walked with them to the pump for water.
There were a lot of activities. But most importantly, we talked, smiled, and laughed together. We connected.” Certainly, the experience
has left its mark on those Davidson students involved. Said Morris, “I’m sure I speak for everyone in the group
when I say that I will never forget the trip to Nicaragua, and that I hope to live with a
greater appreciation for the struggle for justice that the people of Nicaragua live every day.”

Does the Everglades

While some worked this spring break to develop relationships with foreign peoples, others opted to develop their relationship with nature.
Davidson Outdoors held its bi-annual Florida canoeing trip two weeks ago, where nine students paddled 25-foot voyager canoes in the
Everglades National Park and the Gulf of Mexico. Amber Heartman ’02 and Dave Love ’02 led the trip. As Heartman
explained, nature’s simple beauty provided the trip’s true salient feature. “The vastness amazed me,” she recalled. “There is an awesome
power in the endless appearance of the ocean that is uninterrupted by condos or powerboats or fishermen. There is open
water, a constant green coastline, and life teeming around you completely unaware of the real world that surrounds it. In
those moments, usually close to sunset, when I could just stare, just look and feel for a minute or two
that I was part of that simple infinity, I felt complete.” Love feels all participants returned to campus with a
new understanding of the Everglades and how humans affect this natural habitat. “I think all the people on the trip
now understand the fragile Everglades ecosystem and the problems that it faces from encroachment by humans,” he said. “The Everglades
is always teeming with activity as both flora and fauna struggle for survival. This gentle balance pulls then pushes the
scales of entropy much as a lapping tide washes the gnarled mangroves.” Of course, the trip was not without its
vicissitudes. Aside from fairing storms with 8-10 ft. swells in the gulf and 20-25 knot winds, cooking proved interesting. Heartman,
trying her hand at making pasta salad one evening, wound up with instead “a starchy moosh. ‘Course I got harassed
about it for the rest of the trip,” she noted. “Rightfully so, because it tasted like doo.”

The Spring to Sing

The members of the Davidson College Concert Choir completed their spring break on a sound note, traveling on a weeklong
southern tour. Led by Director Ray Sprague, the choir of over 50 members went to suchCities such as Atlanta, Georgia;
Jacksonville, Florida; and Columbia, South Carolina, among others, captivating audiences in numerous Presbyterian Churches and local high schools. Students had
the opportunity to stay with various alumni and their families along the tour. Though a packed performance schedule meant early
rising and long rehearsals, there was certainly time for relaxation as well, especially during a weekend stay over in Orlando,
Florida. Soprano Susan Robison ’04 certainly had a good time. “The choir tour was awesome!” she exclaimed loudly. “It was
exhausting, but I love to sing, so it was worth it!”

ATC, from page 1
Funding proposals, since it is a more specialized and streamlined committee than the 40-senator SGA. Besides diminishing the role of
ATC, this practice has had another negative consequence. The purpose of the Special Projects fund is not specified in the
SGA bylaws, but it was originally intended to sponsor programs like the Vamanos Van and Red Bikes. At a recent
SGA meeting, however, the SGA was forced to deny funds to an organization because they weren’t sure if they had
the money available. Basically, Harris explained, the current incorrect practices are stripping the Special Projects fund of money needed to
sponsor the things the fund was intended to finance. Both Harris and Skattum agreed that these problems need to be
corrected. To that end, the SGA has decided to create a seven-member committee to study relations between the ATC and
SGA. The committee will help clarify and reaffirm correct protocol for organizations needing funds. Additionally, Skattum hoped that the purpose
of the Special Projects fund will become more clearly defined. Harris did not anticipate any additions to the SGA bylaws
as of yet, but agreed that protocol needs to be clarified. Harris and Skattum both expressed hope that the new
committee will improve communication between SGA and the ATC. “It’s better for everyone,” Skattum explained, when the two organizations have
clearly defined powers and are able to cooperate.

Telemarketing, from page 2
Makl and Patterson are hoping that similar results may be achieved this time as well. “If students who receive these
calls can get the name of the company that is trying to solicit them, they can email me,” Patterson offers.
He will then give the company names and complaints to Makl and she will formally call the company and ask
that Davidson be removed from the calling list. Since student numbers are unlisted, companies such as Discover and Sprint should
not have access to them. Apparently, the companies have a phone number randomizer. And just how does this contraption work?
Given that the administrative offices of Davidson are listed, the company has only to insert the area code and the
first three digits of the phone number (for example: 894) and then the machine randomly generates the next four numbers
that would come after that. “Most of the time, until you pick up the phone, the solicitor has no idea
who they are calling,” stated Patterson, “It’s like they just keep trying all these different locks looking for the key
that fits.”

Late March
Make an appointment @ AIDS Project

Label: Limit of one entry per student. All entries must be submitted on 8 1/2 x 14 paper, with your
name, address, and phone number on the entry. Entries must be received in Charis 113 by 5:00 p.m. on March
26.

DAVIDSON 100% Natural Spring Water is a great thirst quencher! NATURAL SPRING WATER 16.9 FL. OZ (0.5 Liter)
