By Christina Cooke, Staff Writer

Gabriel Rivera is not an artist to apply color delicately with a paintbrush. Instead, his mixed media appear as if he has thrown materials onto the surface, allowing them to smear into each other and drip down the canvases. The streaks, puddles, and splotches of tans, browns, maroons, and blacks evoke the dinginess of a city building covered with grit, grime, and graffiti. Until he set up a studio in his garage three or four years ago, Rivera had never touched a canvas. As a classical guitar music major at California State University, the native Californian composed, performed, and recorded music for a rock band. Evidence of his fascination with music appears in the lyrical titles of his paintings, which include “A Readily Dispensable Tinkling of Bells” and “The Welcome Renewal of Idols.” A collection of his works—and their titles—will hang in the Van Every Gallery of the VAC until April 22.

Rivera uses materials including oil and acrylic paints, spray paint, pencil, powdered graphite, airbrush, charcoal, and tar to compose each of his mixed media. His online biography describes the elements of his paintings as “stacked on top of each other, painted over, painted out, scratched, sanded and abused until he feels as if the painting itself has been sitting at an old bus stop for forty years in the sun and rain waiting for a ride that never comes, trading beauty for wisdom but retaining beauty all the while.” Gallery Director Brad Thomas admires the complexity of Rivera’s canvases. “I find interesting the layers and layers and layers of information that he achieves,” he says. “It’s very interesting the whole idea of putting something down, erasing it or covering it and putting something else down, leaving some of the first layer poking out.” The interaction of the layers gives each of Rivera’s works a sense of energy. On all of his canvases, colors dart under and over one another. On one, a cat skeleton and three-dimensional geometric figure emerge from a mess of maroons, browns, grays, and blacks. Shoe smudges tread along the bottom of another. In still another, the doodled face of a bearded man with glasses appears from behind a spray-painted area. Words scrawled with a charcoal stick race across many of the canvases. In a few cases, Rivera writes legibly. A tiny poem-like group of phrases in the top right-hand corner of “Asbestos Buttercups” reads, “SHE WALKS WITH A SWAGGER/ WHERE SHE GOT THAT SWAGGER/ MAY BE THE GROCERY STORE/— WITH HER ASBESTOS BUTTERCUPS.” In “Stain of a Hero,” primitive reddish block letters spell out the word “HERO,” but the “O” trails behind the rest of the word, leaving “HER” as the most prominent idea. Yet most of the words across Rivera’s canvases are illegible. The viewer strains to decipher a message from the scribbled shapes that cover the canvases but does not succeed. By presenting meaningless words and catering to a distorted aesthetic standard, Rivera comments on the excessive visual stimulation in modern-day society. “He is fascinated by the complexity and urgency of urban life and the plethora of information we are constantly bombarded with at every moment,” reports his biography. “The layers of metropolitan life are represented in his paintings by miscellaneous shapes, drawings, icons, words, phrases, and colors covering the canvas yet naturally canceling each other out until there is nothing but an overwhelming sense of mental tranquility.”

Despite the spontaneity of movement evident in the wild-seeming streaks and splotches, Thomas appreciates Rivera’s compositional success. Of one of the works in the gallery, he marvels, “It’s amazing that one little white stripe completely balances the chaos in the painting.” Some visitors, like UNC-Chapel Hill student Ben Chen, feel that the disarray of the canvases is too overwhelming. “I question if it’s really art,” explains Chen. “They’re Rivera’s dynamic canvases appear chaotic and fragmented at first glance. Asbestos Buttercups, 2001.

Academy awards could have passed for “The Julia Roberts Show”
By Derek Lou, Staff Writer

So that reputable organization, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, named Gladiator the best film of 2000. Ok, fine. I don’t like the movie. I think for all its star power and budget, it could have been better, but what I think really doesn’t matter. People liked it; I didn’t. Done. Explain this, though — how did Gladiator receive enough votes to win best visual effects? Did the Academy even see The Perfect Storm? And perhaps Russell Crowe’s best actor Oscar is understandable. He filled his role with confidence withoutgoing over the top like his co-star, Joaquin Phoenix. But certainly, he was not better than Ed Harris in Pollock or any of the other nominees. Gladiator also took home honors for sound and costume design, the one Oscar it deserved. The night’s second biggest winner, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, received four Oscars: music (score), art direction, cinematography, and, as expected, best foreign language film. With four awards, Traffic was also a big winner, earning Steven Soderbergh a well-deserved Oscar for direction. A juggling act of style, multiple stories, and two languages, Soderbergh’s work was, indeed, the year’s best. Not surprisingly, Benicio del Toro won for his supporting performance in Traffic and Steven Gaghan for his adapted screenplay. Traffic’s fourth Oscar was for editing. Upsetting favorite Kate Hudson (Almost Famous), Marcia Gay Harden’s best supporting actress win for Pollock, which is playing at the Manor through next week, shocked everyone. In her acceptance speech, Harden thanked the Academy “for taking the time to even view the tape and consider our film.” Even if she didn’t deserve it, Julia Roberts’ win allowed her to give one hell of an acceptance speech. She triumphed over the wonderful performances of Joan Allen (The Contender), Ellen Burstyn (Requiem for a Dream), and Laura Linney (You Can Count on Me) and the adequate work of Juliette Binoche in Chocolat. Roberts’ happiness was the highlight of the evening, which should have been called “The Julia Roberts Show.”

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2001

expressive, but I don’t consider them aesthetic and pleasing to my eye.” Yet other visitors embrace the painting in spite of and because of the disorder. “This challenges my aesthetic standards,” remarks Senior art major Rob Harkey, “but I appreciate the freedom it demonstrates. It’s not beautiful, but that’s not what it’s about.” “I like it,” asserts Junior art major Allison Cook. “It has a history behind it. It’s about the process of making them. They’re open for interpretation. Everyone can see something different.” Rivera finds inspiration in the disarray that challenges many of his viewers. “Imperfection inspires me to paint,” he says. “When something becomes so perfect that even the slightest blemish is imperceptible, that thing becomes static, void of creative force, and uninteresting. Uninteresting because perfection destroys the fundamental law of life which recognizes that all phenomena are just energy in flux, constantly moving and changing, always becoming something new.”

“Once upon a Midnight” conveys tension of Poe’s life and work
By JEREMY HUNT
Special Contributor

Last Thursday night Love Auditorium was visited by the specter of Edgar Allan Poe, in a one-man performance by actor John Astin. As everyone took their seats, the sparse stage was bathed in deep blue light, punctuated by a single stark light bulb, like a gleaming eye gazing into the darkness. In a similar fashion, Mr. Astin provided the audience with a look into the darkness and despair of Mr. Poe’s life. “Madness,” he revealed, “is the loftiest intelligence.” The life of Poe was marked by death and tragedy, beginning at an early age with the death of his parents. Mr. Astin spoke of hauntings by demons of blood, and demons of the disease of consumption. Next adopted by the Allan family, Poe struggled to receive acceptance from those around him for the rest of his life. His writing was often not recognized in his own time, and he was forever fighting against the “imp of the perverse.” Death and its related forms of physical violence and suffering played large roles in his works, for these elements were large parts of his entire life. Mr. Astin did an admirable job portraying the various sides of Poe: lover, madman, writer, philosopher. Unfortunately, much like Poe himself, the overall performance was a mixed bag. Certain parts seemed to drag, while others were witty and concise. As an amateur Poe lover, I appreciated the technical difficulty of reciting “The Raven” in its entirety, but was it truly necessary? The recitation seemed contrived and forced, but it is difficult to ascertain whether this was due to Mr. Astin’s performance or rather simply a result of the poem’s sing-song nature. In the end, perhaps this sort of tension and ambivalence is what the audience was meant to feel toward Poe and his life. He was not a cut-and-dry character, easily packaged and presented. He was a writer who fought against “the fever called living” and left behind a body of work that gives an intriguing and often frightening look at life and its struggles.