DAVIDSON COLLEGE THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 2001 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 13.

Coach McKillop earns place in Wildcat record books

The Wildcats’ victory over VMI on Saturday made Coach Bob McKillop the winningest basketball coach in Davidson history with 177
wins. See coverage, pages 11 & 12.

New fleet of Red Bikes arriving soon
By Colin EAGAN
Staff Writer

The wheels are turning on a new project at Davidson College. Beginning next week, the SGA plans to issue twenty
brand new red bikes to the school community, ushering in a new era of transportation on campus. Intended for communal
use, the bikes can be ridden by any student, faculty, or staff member from one building to another, and then
left for the next user. Regulated by the Honor Code, red bike use should provide an important new convenience in
daily school life.

The program, spearheaded by Bobby Pittenger ’02 and Rob McKeehan ’01, will re-invent the existing but limited bike program begun
by Davidson Outdoors Director Ed Daugherty. The new “red fleet” will greatly augment the current number of bikes on campus,
hopefully making use much more accessible and widespread. Generous donations from the SGA, the Dean of Students Office, and the
President’s Office made the purchase of the new equipment possible.

McKeehan and Pittenger, who have researched the rare but active bike programs at schools such as Williams College and Colorado
College, hope to build on positive feedback from users of the bikes that are currently available at Davidson. Beth Gardner
’03 describes her experience in riding the bikes in the past as “Wonderful! I used one before to get from
the Union back to my room. It was really convenient.”

However, despite random success stories, it seems most students have found the existing bikes on campus both poorly accessible and
even dangerous. “I was lucky enough to get one that actually had a chain,” admitted Gardner. Because the current bike
collection consists largely of older, used, and donated bikes, performance and condition have been unpredictable. “The bikes we have now
are remarked Pittenger. Michael Megison ’04 almost tripped on one last Thursday on his way past Cunningham. It looked “pretty
sad,” he notes. “Like some music department employee’s garbage. I was greatly dismayed.”

McKeehan feels the purchase of the new bikes will clear up all problems associated with the old ones. “I think
this new purchase will make all the difference,” he explained. “The new bikes are really sweet one-speeds.”

See Red Bikes, page 3

Self-Selection streakers cover up
By JT Tolentino
Staff Writer

The tradition of streaking fraternity pledges is officially over. Last Friday was the end of the seemingly endless debate over
nude running on Self-Selection Night. Despite the cold temperatures and the chilly rain that persisted through the entire night, nearly
90 freshman males did the traditional run through the female eating houses. This year, however, the male pledges had to
wear something, or at least a little bit of something, to cover themselves.

Starting around 9:00 PM, the fraternities let loose their pledges through the eating houses to be greeted with shaving cream,
whipped cream, and anything that was wet. Creativity was key for the night. Each fraternity had a “different theme” to
cover themselves. Some fraternities found the thong appropriate wear, like Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Theta. Phi Kappa Alpha told
their pledges to “find crazy underwear,” said PiKA pledge George Barrett ’04. “The ones with diapers were really cool,” said
Allison Marsh ’04, a new member to the Turner House. “Jockstraps were also a classic.”

The debate began late last semester, when the administration announced its decision to ban streaking on the court. The administration
claimed that the action was due in part to their decision to...Follow North Carolina state law against public nudity. The
decision arrived at a time when students were speculating about the administration’s disapproval of Court activities. They expressed concerns about
new restrictions, like those articulated in one mass e-mail sent out by a group of Kappa Sigma brothers. Vagt explained
the administration’s decision in the December 6 issue of The Davidsonian. He said that “not only is it against the
law, there are people who are feeling pressured to do it and don’t want to. There are other people, particularly
young women, who are forced to participate by being observers.” Vagt also expressed his belief that communication is important in
matters concerning Court activities, including streaking on Self-Selection Night. The President’s sentiment was put into action with a campus-wide forum
in early December, where students had the opportunity to express their opinions about the administration’s decision. Many proponents of streaking
have claimed that the activity is a long-standing Davidson tradition. The custom’s date of origin, however, remains vague. The first
documented see Streakers, page 4

Internet voting will be ready for Category II elections
By Jessica MERING
News Editor

The days of voting tables in Chambers and Commons are over. Beginning on February 5, for Category II elections students
will cast their votes electronically. The members of the SGA and the Election Council have been actively exploring the possibility
of online voting since last year. Last October, the SGA passed a resolution that asked Information Technology Services (ITS) to
make internet voting a priority. Bobby Pittenger ’02, Kevin Epps ’03, and Randy Skattum ‘01 proposed the resolution which stated
that voter turnout could be raised effectively by allowing students to vote over the internet. “We just want to make
it easier for the student body. We really want to increase participation,” explained Pittenger. ITS has been working since then
to make online voting possible. “ITS recognized that internet voting was needed for SGA and for students to get involved
in the school. Dr. Casey saw that it was not only necessary, but he also personally oversaw it to make
sure it was completed. The SGA and the student body should be thankful to Dr. Casey and ITS for making
voting easier for the students,” noted Epps. The ITS programming group has developed a code which will record and tabulate
internet votes. Students will access a website and enter their student ID number and password, just as they would to
log into CATSLink. The login ensures that every voter is authorized to vote; all votes remain anonymous. The ballot that
will appear is a standard Windows-based form that allows users to indicate their votes by clicking on options. After a
student has completed the ballot, he or she will submit it, and the vote will add automatically to a running
tabulation. A “reset” option will be available in case of error. Many offices require that voters choose more than one
candidate. For example, each student votes for up to three separate class see Voting, page 5

INSIDE THIS WEEK
Wildcats do Washington
Davidson students report on the Inauguration ceremonies of the 43rd President of the United States George W. Bush.
NEWS page 2

Knobloch setbacks
Despite frustrating delays, construction officials assure students that some areas of the new Student Center will be accessible by exam
week.
NEWS page 5

Best films of 2000
From action to romance, domestic to foreign, our critics rate the best (and worst) flicks of the year. See their
top ten lists of must-see films for 2000.
ARTS & LIVING page 6

Bush nominees under fire
President Bush’s appointees have drawn considerable heat from political opponents. How much of this scrutiny is warranted, how much is
misleading, and more importantly, how much can the public take?
PERSPECTIVES page 8
