Press RELEASE

In keeping with the primary theme of this epic work, Davidson College’s English 355 class will serve plenty of apples
to audience members during its all-day reading of John Milton’s Paradise Lost on Saturday, March 31.

The crunching should reach a crescendo during hour nine, when a reader reaches Book 9, Line 780, a passage that
recalls Eve’s fateful decision to eat the forbidden fruit: “Her rash hand in evil hour / Forth reaching to the
fruit, she plucked, she ate. / Earth felt the wound, and nature from her seat / Sighing through all her
works, gave signs of woe, / That all was lost.”

The public is invited to attend this reading of Milton’s 17th-century epic, which chronicles the revolt of a powerful and
sympathetic Satan against God, and Satan’s actions against Adam and Eve that lead to humanity’s fall. It begins at 9
a.m. in the Carolina Inn on Main Street in Davidson, and is expected to last 12 hours.

Though admission is free, student participants and listeners are invited to bring along used children’s and young adult books for
the Ada Jenkins Community Center’s after-school program, or contribute donations to buy books.

Associate Professor Randy Ingram, who teaches the twenty-two students enrolled in the Milton seminar, explained that both the reading and
the book drive have special meaning in the context of Milton. Milton was a controversial, activist writer, born in 1608,
who went blind in middle age, in part, because he read almost every book published in every language to that
point in history. Firmly opposed to censorship, he believed virtue and vice were opposite sides of the same coin, and
advocated people to read all manner of literature in order to develop principled stances on important issues.

The public reading reflects the fact that Milton, who considered himself a prophet, did not actually write Paradise Lost. Instead,
he recited it to friends, family members, and scribes in what he called “unpremeditated verse.” Senior student Brandt McMillan explained
that Milton’s assistants read to him from the Old Testament in Hebrew during the day, and Milton reflected on those
readings as he slept. “When he woke up in the morning he would sit up and say, ‘I want to
be milked,’ and then dictate the verses to his scribes,” said McMillan. “The whole thing sort of flowed out of
his head and out of his mouth.”

Ingram admitted that Paradise Lost is not easy to read because of its odd syntax, difficult vocabulary, and complex, noble
style. However, he said it is an important, provoking work. “It’s a poem that asks all the big questions,” he
said. “Hearing it can be a reflective, exciting time for the listener.”

To help casual listeners comprehend the work, students are writing short summaries of each chapter, and will make them available
at the reading.

Ingram said his students are spending six weeks on the twelve books of Paradise Lost, but much of their discussion
is directed by the footnotes that occupy about half of each page in their textbook. The public reading will reinforce
the oral nature of the original work, said first-year student Jonathan Wu. “Reading it end-to-end without interruption should help us
see it as a whole and focus more on the narrative, rather than dealing with the footnotes,” said Wu.

Ingram specializes in the study of 17th-century books, and explained that Milton’s decisions about the publication of Paradise Lost in
1667 reflect interesting aspects of his character. Since Milton firmly believed he was called to serve as a divine prophet
in the religious reformation of England, one might assume that his epic would be printed in florid and grandiose style.

However, Milton abhorred anything that he considered idolatry, even religious symbols such as crucifixes or paintings of Christ. So he
directed that the book be published simply, with no illustrations or even frontispiece. “Perhaps because of his blindness, he wanted
people to concentrate on the words without being distracted by image or presentation,” Ingram explained. “It’s a physically unassuming book,
but the words make it one of the most audacious books in history.”

Bill Giduz

Robert McSweeney, Emily Metzloff, Professor Randy Ingram, and Brandt McMillan examine a first edition of Milton’s Paradise Lost.

The E.H. Little Library houses one of the first copies of Milton’s poem.
