Spratt

from page 1

However, he did concede that “it may be hard to explain [his position] to constituents.” Instead of President Bush’s broad tax cut, Spratt supports more moderate tax cuts and an expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit.

Spratt also vowed to direct his legislative efforts towards race reconciliation, and insisted that he would vote for any measure that outlawed racial profiling. Furthermore, he called on the members of the youngest generation to banish racism from society, just as members of older generations had made slavery a “strange and unexplainable institution.”

When asked about the prohibitive costs of campaigning for public office, Spratt characterized campaign donations as “a form of legal bribery.” He said that the current Congress is working to reform the campaign finance system, but stopped short of saying whether he would support any of the current measures (like the McCain-Feingold bill or the President’s more moderate reforms).

Spratt also detailed the life of public servants and elected officials, saying that most of the American public was unaware of the financial hardships of public office. He added that he did not know of any Congressman “who got rich, legally.” Representative Spratt added that anyone aspiring to hold elective office should “follow their dreams” and “get involved early.” He added that his job “was probably hard on his family,” but that his children had said that his service had enabled them to get the best education possible.

College Communications

DIA helps earthquake relief in El Salvador, India

BY NIDHI PAUL
Special Contributor

On the 13th of January, an earthquake of magnitude 7.6 hit El Salvador. There are over 700 people dead, and more than 1200 missing. On the 26th of January, an earthquake of magnitude 7.9 hit the northwestern part of India. The latest count estimates that over 25,000 people are dead, with over 50,000 still missing.

Two weeks ago the Davidson International Association (DIA) and the Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS) sponsored a relief effort in Chambers. There was a table set up on the first floor of Chambers from Tuesday to Friday, to collect donations towards these countries. The effort was very successful, with over $3500 collected.

Susana Rodriguez, the Service Chair for DIA, organized the effort and was enthusiastic about the results. “The extent of the contributions was inspiring. It is encouraging to know that people are aware of these disasters, and can work together to help out.”

The money collected for El Salvador will go to Doctors Without Borders, a non-profit medical relief agency. The money for India will be given to the Red Cross fund for the Indian earthquake.

If you would like to make a donation, and have not had the opportunity, or have any questions or concerns, please contact Susana Rodriguez.

Grills

from page 1

questions about the problems with fire hazards, cleanliness and expense. RLO is reluctant to place grills near dormitories because of the threat of fire. Upkeep and cleanliness is also another factor. As Director of Residence Life Kurt Holmes said to Epps, “you cook, you clean.” The proposed grills will most likely be charcoal because they are easier to maintain and clean than gas grills. The final, and possibly most important issue facing the SGA and RLO, is expense. SGA would pay for the grills and physical plant staff workers would install them. The addition of more grills can only be a good thing for the eating habits of Davidson’s student body. As Rebecca Nunan ’03 remarked, “microwaves can only take you so far.”

Biles

Stratton Lawrence/College Communications
The SGA Senate inaugurated its new officers at the meeting this past Tuesday. Joey Harris ‘02 (seated left) became the new SGA President. Beth Gardner ‘03 (standing) was sworn in as SGA Vice President. Former President Dane Erickson ‘01 looks on.

after this, the corporate ladder will be a piece of [cake].

In the course of facing challenges like this, you'll learn how to think on your feet. Stay cool under pressure. Take charge. Talk to an Army ROTC rep. You'll find there's nothing like a little climbing to help prepare you for getting to the top.

For scholarship and enrollment info

Visit Major Geiger at Jackson Court or Call 892-2165