Erin Berry Nicole Tonelli ’04 supports a Wildcat squad prepared for the Southern Conference Tournament after three straight wins.

Cross Country Wrap-up

Greenville course challenges women
By Brooke KITTINGER

Men improve formidable 10k goals
By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Staff Writer

The women’s cross-country team finished its fall season at the NCAA Southeastern Regional meet on Saturday at Furman University in
Greenville, SC. The ’Cats placed 21st in a competitive 26-team field. N.C. State won the meet with 45 points, just
four points less than rival North Carolina. Sophomore Shalane Flanagan of UNC was the overall winner, finishing the 6K race
in 20:26.

The regional meet was a bittersweet end for the Wildcats, racing on the hilliest terrain of the season and challenged
by the race’s added kilometer. Freshman Sally Stanhope was the first finisher for the Wildcats, placing 86th overall in 24:04.
Five places behind her, Anna Brew finished at the 24:10 mark. Junior tri-captain Liz Gross finished with a time of
25:09, followed by sophomores Jenna Kruppa and Emily Einstein at 25:14 and 25:28, respectively. Freshman Lindley Swartz and sophomore tri-captain
Laura Puckett also finished for the Wildcats with times of 25:51 and 26:58.

“This was one of the best seasons we’ve had in a while,” said tri-captain Gross. “Based on the times we’ve
been running, we should definitely be breaking some records on the track this spring.” Coaches Jennifer Straub and Adam Johnson
urged the team to look toward the upcoming season as well as summer training to improve its performances in next
year’s cross-country season. Overall, the young team ended its season with a solid feeling of accomplishment as well as anticipation
for the spring 2002 track and field season.

Sports Editor

Nothing could be finer than to be in Carolina on Saturday morning. For the men’s cross-country team, competing in the
NCAA Southeast Regional Championships at Furman University, the morning brought the end of a successful season and the promise of
an impressive track and field effort come spring. The Wildcats finished 22nd out of 29 teams on the rolling 10k
course in Greenville. Conditions were excellent and the weather was sunny and warm as the N.C. State Wolfpack seized the
team title. NCSU placed five runners in the top eleven to gain the victory. William & Mary’s Sean Graham crossed
the finish line in 30:15 to capture the individual title.

Senior captain Dan Gibson once again led the way for the Cats as he garnered a 67th-place finish with a
time of 32:55. Following Gibson’s fleet-footed steps was junior Brad Becken (90th, 33:19) and sophomores Chris Schmader (109th, 33:53), Ben
Gaspar (132nd, 34:37), Dave Bunge (155th, 35:23), and Greg Scott (156th, 35:37). In the 2001 season, the Wildcats boasted a
fourth-place finish in the Southern Conference Championships—the team’s best finish since 1964. Coach Gary Andrew noted the team’s improvement over
the course of the season and lauded the runners’ solid finish. “We’ve stepped up our training and now we are
beginning to put it together during races,” said Andrew. He noted that the team’s top-five finishers improved their personal best
times for the 10k race. “These results are very encouraging going into the track and field season and I’m looking
ahead to next fall. We’re going to continue to improve and make our presence felt in the SoCon.” The squad
will take a two-month break from competition as it prepares for the indoor track season this winter. The first competition
for the ’Cats will be on Jan. 19 at Appalachian State.

By Drew PRICKETT
Staff Writer

The Davidson volleyball team finished the regular season in convincing fashion, beating UNC-Greensboro, East Tennessee State University, and Appalachian State,
building positive momentum going into the Southern Conference tournament. “It’s always great to get a win before the conference tournament,”
said head coach Tammy Darwin. Saturday’s contest was even more memorable as the last home match for two fixtures in
Belk Arena the past four years, twin sisters Jacqueline and Jennifer Ortega. The Wildcats (14-16, 11-9) opened the week with
a convincing three-game win over UNC-G, 30-16, 30-19, and 30-28. It was the tenth consecutive Davidson victory over the Spartans.
Leading the way were Jacqueline Ortega (15 kills, 16 digs), junior Roberta Quis (16 kills, 15 digs), and freshman Meredith
Lorenz (7 kills, 15 digs). Freshman setter Kristin Higbee tallied 44 assists.

Friday’s match against ETSU proved more challenging for the Wildcats, but the team came through with an exciting 30-25, 22-30,
33-31, 24-30, 15-11 win over the Bucs. With the win, Davidson clinched the sixth seed in the SoCon tournament. The
match was hard-fought from start to finish. The Wildcats jumped to one game lead, only toHere is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have ETSU battle back in Game two. In the third game, both teams earned game points. First, Davidson had a
chance to seal the victory with a 29-26 lead, but ETSU edged back to tie the score and subsequently take
the lead. Down 30-29, a Roberta Quis kill held the Bucs at bay and enabled Davidson to prevail after a
fifth game point.

Wednesday, November 14, 2001

Three-game win si hopes for SoCon championships

In the match, blocking proved to be the deciding factor. In the fifth game, with the score tied at six,
the host Wildcats used consecutive blocks from junior Latisha Chapman to wrestle momentum from the Bucs. Chapman finished with seven
blocks in the match. Quis led all players with 17 kills and Jacqueline Ortega posted another double-double (13 kills, 10
digs).

Saturday’s late afternoon match with in-state rival Appalachian State was another five-game thriller for Wildcat fans. Trailing 12-10 in the
fifth game, the team scored five consecutive points to seal the win. Quis ended the match with her 16th kill
of the game. Afterwards, the junior needed only one word to describe the marathon-like match: “Incredible.”

The evening was especially memorable for the Ortega sisters. Playing in front of their friends and family for the last
time in Belk Arena, Jacqueline posted 13 kills while Jennifer had nine. After the game, Jennifer, a history major with
aspirations of attending dental school, reflected on the game, “It was exciting, a good way to go out. The fact
that we’re peaking now has shown that we’ve come a lot further [than others expected], and that’s heartening in itself.”
Sister Jacqueline, a political science major with her sights set on law school (hopefully at the same institution as Jennifer)
added, “It’s nice to be done, and good to go out this way.” When asked what she will miss the
most, she responded that her friends on the team will be the most difficult to leave. “Mentally,” however, said Jacqueline,
“I am ready to move on to the next phase of my life.” Regarding the talented and amiable Ortegas, Darwin
said, “I am very proud of Jackie and Jenn. We’re thankful for their hard work and dedication over their four
years.”

Wrestlers grapple for recognition in season opener

By AMANDA MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

In its first competition of the season, the Davidson wrestling team made its presence known at the 20th Annual West
Virginia Open. On Saturday afternoon, six wrestlers traveled to Morgantown, WV, to compete against nine other teams, including Ohio, Ohio
State, and Virginia. Head coach T. J. Jaworsky commented, “This is one of the toughest tournaments all year, a tournament
that featured several National Champions and All-Americans.”

Senior Jeff Libersat led the team with three wins on the afternoon in the 184-pound division. Libersat began the competition
with a first-round win, and, after losing in the second round, bounced back with two wins in the wrestle backs.
He ended the afternoon with a loss to Hunter Guenot of Bloomsburg, the eventual third-place winner.

The sophomore class showed its winning style, as Adam Sperling and Mark O’Hair both notched several wins on the afternoon.
Sperling demonstrated his strong presence on the mats, advancing to the third round in the 149-pound class. His first loss
of the afternoon came to Jake Percival of Ohio University, the eventual runner-up. O’Hair finished 2-2 on the afternoon in
the 165-pound division.

Though the wrestlers did not finish as high as they would have liked, senior captains Libersat and Jeff Bender felt
the afternoon was a success. Said Libersat, “I thought everyone wrestled very well. We were definitely in the best shape
of anyone at the tournament.” Bender agreed, adding, “We were in better shape than our opponents Saturday, but we still
need to tighten up and learn to use that effectively. We’re happy to see so much improvement, but we are
never happy to lose.”

Overall, Jaworsky was happy with his team’s performance. “This is a huge improvement from last year’s Open, in which the
team won two competitions,” he said. “This year, we won ten.” Jaworsky sees unlimited talent in his wrestlers, and hopes
it develops over the next several months. “I keep telling the guys, this is not a sprint, it’s a marathon.
It doesn’t matter until March.”

The Wildcats continue their marathon on Saturday, Nov. 17, at the Old Dominion Tournament in Norfolk, Va.

---

SPRING BREAK with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour OPERATOR — Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free trips. Information/Reservations:
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com
