By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

Last season, UNC Greensboro swept Davidson in a three-game series at home, and also ended Davidson’s postseason, sending them home
from the Southern Conference Tournament after just two games. The series was one of the most hotly contested and thrilling
of the year, but the Wildcats came up short each game. After the best start in Davidson history this season,
the Wildcats are in a position to avenge last season’s losses when they travel to UNCG to play the Spartans
in a three-game set this weekend.

The Wildcats started well last season and came into the UNCG series with a 16-10 record overall, 8-4 in the
conference. In the series opener on March 18, Spartans freshman left-hander Ryan Gordon dominated the Cats with 14 strikeouts, allowing
only one run on six hits en route to a 5-1 victory. Ryan Stroker took the loss, giving up all
five runs in six innings.

UNCG showcased its offensive ability in the second game of the series and jumped out to an early 11-0 lead
after three innings. Davidson battled back but lost 12-11 when the game was called after the eighth inning because of
darkness. Wes Self took the mound for the final game of the series and gave up two runs in the
second inning but held them scoreless after that until Mark Wells took over in the seventh. Centerfielder Jeremiah Parvin evened
the score in the fifth with a two-run bomb to left-center. The game proved even more trying than the previous
one, as it took eleven innings to decide the Wildcat loss. It was the freshman Ryan Gordon who won the
game for the Spartans again, this time with the bat, as he drove the 0-1 Parvin offering over leftfielder Tim
Frend’s head for an RBI double and the 3-2 win.

This weekend, the Wildcats will try to put those memories behind them for good. “I don’t think last year is
an issue. We aren’t concerned with last year’s losses. This is a different team, and UNCG will have different players,
so last year is not our concern.”

The Spartans (5-3) are quite a different team than last season. They are not as dominant offensively and lack the
pitching that earned them a 34-24 record last year. The Spartans beat North Carolina A&T, a team that the Wildcats
beat also, but lost to High Point, another team Davidson beat, so it’s tough to predict which team will show
up. UNCG’s ace, Ryan Gordon, is out for the season because of elbow surgery. “We’re excited not to be facing
Gordon,” said co-captain third baseman Cassidy Lundin.

Although the Spartans have been without their ace all season, another pitcher has stepped to the forefront of their staff.
Junior left-hander Hancock has been more effective than any other pitcher. The Spartans seem to be lacking the second and
third starter and have been relying heavily on the production of Hancock. Offensively, Cooke says UNCG has been underachieving. “They
are a much better offensive ball club than they have shown,” he said.

Davidson will focus on stopping the Spartans’ catalyst, second baseman Shane Schumaker, who leads the team in hitting (.455), RBI
(10), doubles (4), and stolen bases (5). UNCG’s main long ball threat so far has been freshman clean-up hitter Nick
Lockhart, who has two home runs. The Wildcats will stick with what has produced wins for them this season, and
will start Wolpert, Wells, and Self in the three games.

Women’s tennis drops match to Presbyterian, men lose to Richmond
By Whitney Boykin & Elizabeth Moreno
Staff Writers

On Friday afternoon, the Presbyterian women’s tennis team produced its first-ever victory over Davidson by a score of 4-3. Presbyterian
is currently ranked 16th nationally in Division II. Davidson’s players moved up a position in the absence of No. 1
seed, Lindsay Offutt. The Cats almost overcame this handicap with a 3-3 split in the singles, but were unable to
clinch the doubles point.

“This match proves that the Cats have the potential to compete with the best of teams since they performed so
well without our number one player,” said head coach Jeff Frank. “They are close to getting the bump they need
to make an impact when conference matches begin after spring break.”

No. 2 Yasamina Hilu and No. 4 Gayle Jones both lost tough three-set matches. Wins came from No. 3 Kelley
Cantrell, No. 6 Katherine Hatch, and No. 5 Catherine Rainbow. The Blue Hose snagged the doubles point with wins from
the top two positions. Catherine Rainbow and Katherine Hatch recorded their second win of the day in an 8-6 victory.

Assistant Coach Steve Ascher praised Catherine Rainbow’s play over the weekend. “The one player who really stands out in my
mind over the weekend was Catherine Rainbow. Catherine was able to step in and win her singles match in straight
sets, then partner up for the first time with Katherine Hatch and claim victory at third doubles. With her tough
mental resolve and readiness to compete, Rainbow has demonstrated her value,” he said. The team plays Liberty on March 12
at 2 p.m.

Men’s Tennis loses two matches
In a heartbreaking weekend, the Davidson men’s tennis team lost two 4-3 matches to Richmond and James Madison. In the
Richmond match, the team began strong by clinching the doubles point when top-seeded seniors Whit Hansen and Billy Boykin won
a solid 8-2 victory. David Webb and Bryan Stonestreet came up with an 8-4 win in their first doubles match
together.

The match was lost in singles play. Richmond swept the top four positions with two three-set wins and two close
straight-set matches. Wins came from Stonestreet and Geoffrey Mullen. The James Madison match proved to be just as difficult with
another 4-3 loss. The Wildcats won all three doubles matches to secure the doubles point. Boykin and Hansen improved their
overall record with an 8-1 victory. The singles matches again doomed the Wildcats, with tough three-set losses at the top
two positions. Chad Winebarger and Bryan Stonestreet gave the team two singles wins at No. 3 and No. 6.

“Versus Richmond we played from behind all the way. Against JMU we jumped out on them, winning four of six
first sets but did not put them away. We need to get healthy, in better shape and strengthen our games
in order to close out matches,” he said. The next men’s tennis match is March 12 versus Liberty.A year ago,
people warned me that I was in for a culture shock compared to what I was used to in my
small North Carolina hometown of Kannapolis, N.C., located about 20 minutes south of our school. I listened and prepared myself,
and yet, that was not enough. With the recent death of NASCAR icon Dale Earnhardt, who also hailed from Kannapolis,
the reality of this culture shock hit again. After reading the column in last week’s Davidsonian and talking with people
on campus, I was completely baffled by questions such as “How do you like racing? It is just cars going
fast around in a circle. People only go for the wrecks.” The unfortunate thing is that I did not know
how to respond to it; I had no answer. This is my response to everyone who questions the legitimacy of
racing and to those who just do not understand why people do it or like it.

Thinking back to my childhood, I remember running out the back door of my rural home with my radio in
hand. My father and older brother were right behind me. Sunday afternoons in mid-October were special to our town because
the weekly NASCAR races had arrived. As we sat on my old wooden back porch, we often turned the radio
down to hear the roar, the rumble. Sometimes I would say, “Which one is Dale?” or “Was that a wreck?”
We lived about five miles from what is now Lowe’s Motor Speedway, and the sound of the racecars carried across
the countryside with ease. We had always instinctively cheered for Dale. He was our hometown hero; he was the man
that had escaped the bonds of the Cannon Mills that nearly every family in Cabarrus County had experienced. Although we
had our secondary choices to cheer on (mine was Rusty Wallace because I was a friend of his son), the
“Man in Black” was always the person we wanted to win.

There is no simple answer to why we love racing so much. I can only give you my account from
a town that had its beginnings in stock car racing. The best explanation is because it is simply a part
of our culture. Some people may read this and take offense because they enjoy racing and they have not encountered
any of these situations explained. Others may say that it places an unwanted stereotype on race fans. This is not
supposed to explain everyone’s view. In fact, a recent wave in popularity has spurned a new generation of fans. I
have been asked, “Why do people act like Dale was a god? Why do people who have never met the
guy eulogize him?” Drivers from the old days seldom forgot where they came from. Dale was the last of these
“cowboys” in a sport that has quickly been overcome by the media and money. You did not have to know
Dale Earnhardt to feel the effects of what he had done, particularly in Kannapolis.

I have been fortunate enough to know several drivers in my life thus far. This is in part because many
drivers live in my area and, unlike the typical sports stars, are extremely accessible to their fans. Dale was different
from many other drivers on the circuit. He was a hero because he came from the “same side of town”
and endured the same struggles we all grew up facing. He is proof to many that there is a way
to extend the boundaries of the tobacco fields, the long hours of the mill worker, and the rolling cow pastures
that were endured. Students have said to me, “What kind of idiot would strap into a death machine and drive
it over 200 mph?” Arguably, you have to be a little crazy, but craziness does not drive the kind of
determination to win and do it consistently. Racers (in the old days) knew that it was their only shot at
freedom. Freedom from working the mills, working the farms, and being exploited by people who had control of the economy
and of jobs. Dale was heroic because he was one of these racers, a last of the “good ‘ol boys.”

I consider myself lucky to have been given the opportunity to study in college. I did not grow up as
poor as some in my community did, but we all had to fight for what we had. Racing is not
all about the wrecks, or watching people drive around in circles. It is about heritage and culture. Dale Earnhardt instilled
heart, determination, and courage in his true fans. Racing says everything about the working class because they made it, they
raced it, they are it, and it embodies everything they wish they could achieve. The racing community is a family.
A family of racers and a family of friends because everyone can relate to the same struggles that everyone else
goes through. Why do we “like racing so much?” Because we wish that we could be those men, we wish
we had the freedom they worked so hard to get, and because those drivers like Dale Earnhardt who have obtained
it share it with us, the race fans. Moreover, when we who make it out of the farms and rural
communities, we always look to these men as examples of how to treat our success.

When Dale Earnhardt died, race fans did not just lose a legend of their sport, they lost a member of
their family. I am grateful to Dale because he has reminded me of where I come from. He has reminded
me, along with everyone else, that it does not take a high school graduate or money to make a good
person. It takes courage, dedication, sympathy, kindness, and sacrifice. This is a lesson some of us find difficult to swallow
because we strive so hard to get a good job, with good money. Next time you turn on the TV
and see a race on, do not switch it with thoughts of uneducated “rednecks.” While it is true that not
all race fans are very classy in their actions, the heroes of NASCAR embody too much heart for such a
stereotype. Some people will never understand the culture. Some people will never understand the racing. But I hope that those
who do not will learn that racing is not an idiotic sport, it is a sport of heroic athletes and
dedicated fans.

In the words of Dale Earnhardt, “That’s racin’!”

—Anonymous
