Cha-ching? Union Café raises prices

Increase in prices draw questions, criticism from students

By Nick Asma and Roland Foss
Staff Writers

The addition of the Alvarez College Union to the Davidson campus was welcomed by students, teachers, and staff alike. Some
changes, however, were not welcomed quite as enthusiastically. The ever-popular Union Café features an expanded menu, added space, and unfortunately,
increased prices. Students across campus have expressed their displeasure and shock over the increases in everything from snack food to
sandwiches.

“They are bordering on price gouging, which is pretty immoral in a context like this,” commented Matt Eble ‘04. Many
annoyed members of the student body have pondered reasons for the sudden change, and most see the increases as unjustified.
Many feel the costs of the new Union may have played a role. “The price for convenience should only be
so high,” noted Dave Francis ‘04.

As the only late-night food vendor on campus, many students have no other nighttime option than purchasing food from the
café. This restriction allows greater freedom with pricing due to no competition. Beth Daniels ‘04 expressed similar sentiments: “I understand
that we should pay more for added convenience, but just because they have us in a closed environment doesn’t mean
they should milk us for every last cent.”

Many students see the increases as unnecessary due to the high cost of tuition already. “Aren’t we paying enough to
go here? Can’t they give us a break to make it easier?” commented Parker Dixon ‘03. The apparent low cost
of food preparation further angers many students by not justifying the cost hikes. “Quesadillas cost little to make and are
way too expensive,” noted Richard Cutler ‘04.

Many search for answers to justify the changes in price, though few can conceive any. “If the increased prices have
gone to help fund academic programs then they are fine, but as of now they have yet to be justified,”
commented Josh Craft. “I don’t see how you could justify higher prices given the current economic conditions; inflation is not
accelerating and the labor market continues to weaken. Maybe the higher prices factor in higher overhead costs with the new
campus center,” noted Carlos A. Lacayo ‘02.

One man who knows the truth, Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, admits that there were price increases. “I won’t
pretend they didn’t go up,” said Terry. However, Terry asserted, all the price increases are justified because a corresponding increase
in either quantity or quality resulted in the particular products which saw price increases. For example, hot dog prices went
from $1.30 last year to $1.95. However, this year’s dogs are bigger and are significantly better in quality. The price
raises in the chicken sandwiches are due to the fact that this year’s chickens are “whole muscle” — not the
processed patties they were last year. The quarter-pound hamburger price raise of 10 cents seems modest when considering they are
no longer pre-frozen, but are made fresh.

Perhaps the loudest outcry has come up in protest of the cost of 80 cents for salsa with a quesadilla.
The rationale for the charge is simple, says Terry. Not everyone wants salsa on their quesadilla, so it’s not fair
to incorporate the charge into every quesadilla purchase. However, if it becomes clear a large majority of customers do want
salsa with their quesadilla, a fixed charge to include salsa might be instituted.

Terry insists that the goal of the Union Café is to provide customer satisfaction while maintaining responsible budget procedures. A
responsible budget procedure this year was to raise prices after the Union Café operated below budget last year. Indeed, this
year has seen the “first price increase in the Café menu in three years.” Terry also clarified that no one
but the College profits from Union Café budget profits. He and the rest of the Café management do not gain
incentives for reining in large profits.

“I never expect people to be 100% satisfied,” Terry explained. However, Terry is trying to make the Union Café a
more flexible and convenient place to eat. Included in recent initiatives to achieve this have been an expansion of serving
times and an increase of 30 cents in the meal plan allowance to $4.85. Both these improvements over last year
cost money. Terry urged those customers who protest the Union Café’s prices to compare the prices to such places as
convenience stores or to talk to Gray Patterson ‘03, SGA Auxiliary Services liaison.Program to Host Author William Schulz

Executive Director of Amnesty International-USA will speak later this month

By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

With the September 11th tragedy and its aftermath still affecting our lives and hearts, some might consider this a particularly
important time for talk of human rights. For those who do, there will be a free, public talk held on
Tuesday, October 23 at 7:30 pm in the Love Auditorium of Chambers. Dr. William F. Schulz, the executive director of
Amnesty International USA, will be speaking about his new book, *In Our Own Best Interest: How Defending Human Rights Benefits
Us All* (Beacon Press; April 13, 2001; $25.00; 256 pages) and holding a book signing.

This presentation has been organized by Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program and co-sponsored by the school’s chapter of Amnesty International and
the Charlotte World Affairs Council. Dr. Schulz has been the executive director of Amnesty International USA since he was appointed
in 1994. Schulz is an ordained Unitarian Universalist minister and, from 1985-1993, served as the president of the Unitarian Universalist
Association of Congregations (UUA). Traveling extensively throughout the world, Schulz advocates a wide spectrum of national and international social justice
causes. In the United States, he has been outspoken in supporting women’s rights, gay and lesbian rights, and race relations.
To support these causes, he has actively organized and participated in many demonstrations. He has also written about these causes.

Schulz has served on numerous boards, including People for the American Way, the Council of the International Association for Religious
Freedom, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, and Americans United for the Separation of Church and State. Schulz also currently holds
the position of Chair of the Board of the Meadville/Lombard Theological School and is a member of the International Advisory
Committee for the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award. Schulz has appeared on many TV and radio shows, including “60
Minutes,” “20/20,” and “All Things Considered.” He has also written several books preceding the one which he will be discussing,
among these *Finding Time and Other Delicacies*, and *Transforming Words: Six Essays on Preaching*.

With his most recent work, Schulz strives to make human rights a personal thing for everyday Americans in arguing that
foreign and national human rights issues affect our nation’s security, economy, environment, and public health. According to Schulz, “Whether it
be war and peace, international trade, economic growth, the security of jobs, the state of our environment, the public health,
the interdiction of drugs, or a host of other topics, there is a connection between Americans’ own interests and international
human rights.” He addresses issues like the prison conditions in the U.S., the spread of dangerous viruses around the world,
the environmental detriments caused by nuclear fuel leaks in Russia, and the U.S. economic effects of the systemic corruption occurring
in the Far East. Today it’s more obvious than ever to Americans the effect other countries can have on our
home soil; Schulz brings the consequences of human rights infringements to the home front as well.

Sara Cromwell ’02, the president of Davidson College’s chapter of Amnesty International, asserted that Dr. William Schulz’s visit is “hugely
important” to the group because “it raises Amnesty’s profile on campus.” She hopes that there will be high attendance for
the talk, not only by Davidson students but from the wider community as well. Amnesty International supplied some of the
funding for the event, although the Dean Rusk Program actually was in charge of bringing Schulz to campus.

Dr. Homer Sutton, Interim Director of the Dean Rusk Program, shared Cromwell’s enthusiasm for the upcoming lecture. When asked what
prompted Dean Rusk to approach Schulz about speaking, Sutton replied, “We wanted to focus on human rights and humanitarian assistance
during September and October, and Amnesty International was a natural choice. With Kevin Bales speaking on contemporary slavery on September
5th, Will Coley on asylum-seeking refugees on September 24th, and Rashid Khalikov on the Humanitarian Assistance efforts of the U.N.
(November 1), we wanted to include Amnesty in that schedule.”

The Charlotte World Affairs Council is also co-sponsoring the event. They are assisting with some of the travel costs and
will be hosting, along with Dean Rusk, a luncheon in Charlotte on Wednesday, October 24th which will feature Dr. Schulz.
250 Davidson alumni have been invited to that luncheon including guests of the CWAC.

If you are interested in joining Davidson’s Amnesty International, the group holds meetings every Sunday night at 8:30 pm in
room 302 of the new Union. The group focuses on letter writing campaigns to aid foreign governments, free prisoners, and
help those oppressed both at home and abroad.
