By MARTHA Hunt
Arts & Living Editor

Hello again, my fellow insomniacs. Can’t sleep? Can’t study? You’ve chosen the perfect antidote to your problems (wait a minute, I think I just shot myself in the foot... as in, this article will put you to sleep or bore you so much that homework will look FUN). Strike that last statement. What I was attempting to say was... well, forget it. I’ll leave my words open to interpretation. Besides, I’m wasting space. Let’s cut to the chase: I’m so glad you’re here to meet this week’s victim (um, subject), the third in my series of random interviews.

For those of you who have been griping ever since I interrogated TWO male sophomores in a row, this one’s for you. And for all you girls on 1st Belk: thought you knew everything about your hall counselor, did you? Well, keep reading - I bet I’ve got some dirt on this girl even you didn’t know about.

Ever met someone whose room just radiates her personality? Welcome to Belk 113, home to Carrie Frazier (and her roommate of course): a colorful haven of stuffed animals, fluffy comforters, and a bubbling fountain (which used to work but died a little while ago. It still looks cute on the shelf.) On Sunday evening I sat down on an oversized sofa beneath one of the lofted beds, and looked up to see twinkling Christmas lights lacing the bedframe above me. Those, combined with music serenading me in the background, made me feel that somehow I had stumbled upon a secret Strawberry Shortcake Land...

Me: Hey Carrie. Thanks for letting me interview you - this is an awesome room. So, you're a junior... what’s your major?

Carrie Frazier: I’m doing psychology. I used to want to do special needs teaching. Yeah. Now I have no direction whatsoever. Maybe I'll go to graduate school, and then get a private practice.

MH: What were your favorite toys as a kid?

CF: Rainbow Brite, Care Bears, My Little Pony... I definitely had a horse phase, and I’m positive MLP started that. I still have my teddy bear (pulls down worn, gray bear from bed)... he’s called “Heart-to-Heart Bear” and I’ve had him since I was five. You hold him close and you can hear his heartbeat.

MH: How cute! If you could relive any moment/period in time, what would you pick?

CF: I wouldn’t mind reliving 5th grade. I was obsessed with 5th grade - I had SO much fun. Those were some fun times.

MH: Whoa. That sounds rather traumatic. Let’s change the subject to something a bit more uplifting: would you rather do a hot-air balloon ride or skydive?

CF: I'd love to go on a balloon in Ireland - low enough to see the sheep grazing, of course. I’d go skydiving with my mom, but I’m terrified of heights.

MH: What’s your favorite outfit?

CF: I’d wear sweatpants every day in Chicago. My favorite outfit is something huge and baggy, like wigwam socks and a sweatshirt.

MH: Here’s a clincher: Delilahs or Generals?

CF: What about Androgyny?

MH: Well, everyone likes Androgyny. There’s no conflict there. But if you could change anything about Davidson, be it psychological or physical, what would you do?

CF: No homework! (laughs) Also make all tests based on notes. I like going to class, but reading outside of class - don’t like it.

MH: If you could do anything without failing, what would it be?

CF: I'd be a hip-hop dancer, and I'd be good. I won’t embarrass myself further. (laughs)

MH: OK, you have a choice: shave your head or wear false redneck teeth for a week. Which will you pick?

CF: I think I'd shave my head. I’ve got the biggest head of anyone around and it would be funny to see it without hair. And you know, when it’s shaved, you can see if there are any weird spots or stuff like that. Yeah.That would definitely be fun.

MH: I think a lot of people would go for the shaved-head Bill Giduz look. So, do you like that?

CF: Hmn, sounds cool. I grew up in a suburb in Chicago, but home is definitely Atlanta... all those southern roots.

MH: Where are you from?

CF: Atlanta. I was wearing shoes with wheels in a suburb in Chicago, but home is definitely Atlanta... all those southern roots.

MH: If you could pick any place to live after college, where would it be?

CF: Oh man, right now, probably Ireland. I’m definitely obsessed with Ireland. I’m dying to go there. I even have a brochure - see all the green grass and sheep? Sheep are very exciting to me. I’m part Irish, so that may have something to do with it.

MH: If you could have any job once you graduate, what would you choose?

CF: (thinks for a bit) A schedule where I lead worship music on the weekends and play during the week would be great. I’d love to organize service projects too.

MH: What was your favorite TV show as a kid?

CF: I used to come home after school and watch Oprah. I hated my school cafeteria and avoided it at all costs, so I’d go home, eat lunch, watch Oprah, and then fall asleep until dinner.

MH: Can you think of any of your favorite toys from when you were little?

CF: Oh yeah. Nothing to do with Barbie - a bad idea in the first place. My mom would love it if I said rollerskates... her dream is to go to a mall parking lot at night and skate all over the place.

MH: If you were sent to a deserted island with all the necessities for existence, what one extra thing would you take along?

CF: Ah. No contest there - a huge feather comforter. A comfy bed is a fairly large part of my life.

MH: What’s the dumbest thing you’ve ever done?

CF: Hmm, that’s a hard one. (thinks, then the light comes on) Oh my GOSH, something so bad. I can’t believe this. I was in 7th grade, going to a dance at school. It was over Christmas break, so my grandfather was in town - he was formerly a Baptist minister. Yeah. So I’m standing in front of a mirror, looking at myself all dressed up, and I wanted to say that I looked horrible. I said something else - I honestly didn’t know what it meant - I said “I look like a whore.” My brother almost fell over, my mom’s mouth dropped, and my grandfather wouldn’t speak to me for weeks. It was bad... I was crushed.

MH: Here is the most serious question of this interview, so think carefully before responding: if you were a hotdog, and you were starving, would you eat yourself?

CF: Well, either I’d starve or I’d start nibbling, right? I think I’d have a struggle eating myself. Unless I were one of those hotdogs with cheese through the middle. I’m addicted to cheese. In that case, I might not have such a hard time snacking on myself.

MH: What’s your favorite item of clothing?

CF: I am the least fashion-conscious kid.

MH: I’ve heard a lot of people trying to decide whether the Delilahs or Generals are better.

CF: I started Androgyny with my roommate, so I have a soft spot for them. And of course I’m in the Delilahs, so if I don’t pick them I'll be shot. The Generals are great, too - you know guys, they always have fun. But we girls are perfectionists. I’m proud of everything we’ve done. So I'll pick the Delilahs.

MH: Wise decision, given your position. Well, I think that’s about it. Oops. I forgot my most important question.

CF: What’s that?

MH: How often do you read The Davidsonian?

CF: Oh! Well, whenever it comes, my roommate is usually asleep, so we kick it under the door. We either read it right away or really late. But we do read it every week...

MH: Perfect. You’ve passed this interview with flying colors.

FRESH

Let's try home party fashionably and have a joyful chat with nice fellows. Fujinami’s straw will produce your young party happily.