Choir and orchestra give lively performance of Requiem

By Colin Eagan
Staff Writer

It was the best possible scenario. We got to perform a requiem and no one died. The Requiem, that is, the forty-minute, seven-movement masterpiece by John Rutter for soprano solo, mixed choir, and small orchestra. Representing months of long rehearsals and endless hours of polishing and posturing, The Davidson College Concert Choir performed Requiem in concert with the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra in two separate recitals, Sunday, April 22 at Belmont Abbey Basilica and Tuesday, April 24 at our own Davidson College Presbyterian Church (DCPC). The Orchestra also performed several of their own selections at each location.

The Belmont Abbey performance was enjoyed by most choir and orchestra members, as it’s generally perceived that abbeys are cool. This one came complete with many Brothers who welcomed us upon our arrival and let us sit in their garden while we were waiting to use their single restroom facility. At this performance, the Symphony Orchestra, directed by Milton Crotts, led off the afternoon with Concerto Grosso in C Major by Corelli, followed by the Entrance of the Queen of Sheba by Handel and the Bassoon Concerto in B-flat Major by Mozart. The Requiem followed, which proved well suited to the church atmosphere. The piece, conducted by Choir Director Raymond Sprague (Ray), was met in the end with a standing ovation. A big deal in and of itself, this occurrence was particularly motivating, given that the majority of the audience was made up of local octogenarians. Some pointed out that they probably were just standing up during the applause because they knew they would have to get up at some point eventually anyway, and just wanted to get a head start on what might well turn out to be a rather lengthy process. Who knows. But as the audience filed out to their early bird dinners, some noted that several of the Brothers were quite moved by our religious musical selection, and had perhaps even shed a tear. I personally didn’t get quite that impression; at one point during the music (a point at which I was trying very hard to sing all movingly-like) I looked up and glimpsed one Brother, thinking “wow, wouldn’t it be cool if he was looking all pensive and emotional?” He was looking, all right, but at his wristwatch.

The DCPC concert was beautiful. The first half of the program revealed the mastery of musicians in the Symphony Orchestra, who performed an encore of Concerto Grosso as well as Simple Symphony by Britten. Thomas Bergamo ’02, Concertmaster, shone on violin, as did Stephanie Corwin ’03 on bassoon. The performance went without a glitch, until the last selection of the first half, Britten’s Matinées musicales, whereupon the winds lost a bit of synchronization with the strings (apparently because those in the back couldn’t see up front to Crotts, who likes ducking). This was ok, however, because the audience really didn’t notice, probably because every other movement of Britten’s Matinées musicales sounds like some mixture between the Nutcracker and circus music. The jovial nature of the selection was quite amusing, even to the players themselves apparently, at least one or two of whom was seen to briefly forgo his or her serious concert decorum in favor of cracking a grin.

The second, Requiem portion of the evening evoked not smiles, but tears. The good kind (we think). The seventy-some-odd person Concert Choir made a tremendous sound with the musicians of Symphony Orchestra who accompanied. Kristen Hillyer ’01 gave a spine-shivering solo performance (which had tended to be a problem in practices, as the rest of the choir was so mesmerized that an entrance or two was missed completely on more than one occasion). The audience seemed very appreciative, save for one apparently roiled student observer who leapt from his seat at one point and ran outside hacking loudly. The student was later identified to be Brian Borak ’04, who described the Requiem as “very moving.” A second standing ovation was in order. With the accomplishment of completing two successful performances, members of the choir and orchestra can—taking some of the Requiem’s own words to heart—indeed “rest from their labors.”Memento proves intelligent, light-hearted - but in reverse
By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Before we get to Memento, a quick note: I was going to write a review of Freddy Got Fingered. Then I read Owen Gleiberman’s review, in which he says, “To raise moral objection to Green’s antics is to play right into his hand. It would be like complaining that a skunk sprays you; that, quite simply, is what a skunk does.” It is the only movie I truly wish I had not seen.

On the other hand, I was quite enthralled by Christopher Nolan’s Memento. It belongs to that whole group of films like The Usual Suspects, The Spanish Prisoner, The Manchurian Candidate, Exotica, and The Sixth Sense. I call them Keyser Soze movies, movies that twist around their realities and chronologies, (sometimes) delighting and enlightening us with their confusion and trickery. Keyser Soze movies don’t always work: in The Usual Suspects, the twist all but proves the entire film useless. But in a movie like Atom Egoyan’s Exotica, deception is not just part of the fun; it is essential.

That said, Memento’s antics — it’s told backwards, and its hero has no short-term memory — are simply fun, nothing more. (That’s both a compliment and a criticism.) The argument that the backwards technique puts us in its protagonist’s constant state of confusion is rather weak: in a traditionally told movie, we still don’t know who’s who until the film lets us know, just like Memento does.

Guy Pearce stars as Lenny, a man whose wife has been raped and killed. His sole purpose for living, he believes, is to avenge his wife’s death. And because the movie begins at the plot’s “end,” the first scene shows Lenny killing his wife’s murderer, but then again, maybe it doesn’t. As the film moves backwards through its story, we learn about Lenny’s condition, his absent short-term memory. Plot hole: how can he remember that he has a problem remembering things?

Two characters pop up time and time again, having different motives in every scene. Natalie (Carrie-Anne Moss) befriends Lenny, providing him with information on John G, his wife’s killer. Then there’s Teddy (Joe Pantoliano), a mysterious presence whose involvement in the story makes less and less sense as the film continues (i.e., moves backwards).

It’s Memento’s end, perhaps, that undermines the film the most; it usually is that way with Keyser Soze movies. And while the finale/beginning does answer some questions — most importantly, it explains the subplot involving Sammy, a man with a condition similar to Lenny’s — it raises more. Why, for example, is Teddy even in the movie? There’s a plethora of other questions, ones I can’t discuss without spoiling. All I will say is that the film doesn’t give us enough information to come to any logical conclusions.

But these qualms aside, Memento is a well-made, engaging, intelligent (there’s a change) film. The performances, particularly that of Carrie-Anne Moss, provide most of the fun. What I liked most about Memento, though, is that it doesn’t take itself too seriously. It has a light sense of humor that is, at times, brilliant. In one scene Lenny wakes up in a strange room and finds an empty wine bottle in his hands, and he says, “I don’t feel drunk...”

Grade: B+.

Would you like to buy a computer?
You may order a computer through Information Technology Services from June-August. See this website for more information: www.davidson.edu/computing/purchasing/students/
- Computers are sold only to enrolled Davidson students for their personal use.
- Specific information about the sales program will be available after June 1, 2001.