By Rick BENDER Davidson S.I.D.

Davidson and Wofford split a doubleheader on Saturday afternoon, with the Wildcats winning in game one, 6-3, and Wofford grabbing the second contest, 8-2.

In the first inning of game one, Wofford got on the board with two unearned runs. Steve Casey drove home the first run with an RBI single, and Lawson Burnat brought home the second on a fielder’s choice. The Wildcats quickly answered in the bottom half of the inning. Jack Purcell started the first by driving a pitch off the top of the fence in right field for a double. The next Wildcat hitter, Ryan Stroker, brought in Purcell with a single down the right-field line, cutting the lead in half at 2-1. Davidson tied the game in the second on a one-out RBI single by D.J. Dailey to score Billy Ryan, who had opened the frame with a single.

Wildcat starter Jeremiah Parvin settled down to face the minimum amount of batters in the second through fifth innings, but got into trouble in the sixth. Strat Stavrou and Casey started the inning with singles, and a sacrifice put runners on second and third. But the Terriers managed to score only one run in the inning on a grounder off the bat of Burnat. A two-out rally by Davidson in the bottom of the seventh put the Wildcats ahead to stay. A lead-off double by Cassidy Lundin looked like it would go to waste, but Purcell tied the game with his third hit of the game with two outs. After a walk to Stroker, Tim Frend knocked in Purcell with a soft single to center. An error by the third baseman extended the inning, which led to a two-run double by Ryan.

Parvin pitched eight-plus innings, giving up only one earned run in the briskly-paced contest that took just 1 hour and 59 minutes. Frend got the final two outs for his fifth save of the season. Tate Osterman went the distance for the Terriers, allowing 10 hits and four earned runs.

Wofford 8, Davidson 2

Just as in game one, Wofford jumped on top of Davidson in the top of the first on a pair of unearned runs. Then in the third, the Terriers boosted their lead to 4-0 on a throwing error and a squeeze bunt by Kevin Bowyer. Davidson finally responded in the bottom of the fourth. With a man on first, Lundin jerked an inside fastball over the left-field fence for his third home run of the season, cutting the lead in half at 4-2.

In the top of the sixth, the Terriers broke open the game. Cotugno led off the inning by clearing the fence in right for his third homer of the year. Another Wildcat error led to two more unearned runs, with Stavrou driving in one of the runs with a single. Cotugno added his second homer of the game in the ninth, a two-out solo shot to right field. He finished the game with four hits and three RBI to lead the Terriers, while Bowyer added three singles.

Wake Forest hands Wildcats third straight loss

Rick BENDER Davidson S.I.D.

Wake Forest batted around twice in the first three innings while scoring 14 runs en route to a 16-7 triumph over host Davidson (18-27) on Tuesday afternoon. The 23rd-ranked Deacons (35-15) collected 17 hits in the game, with every player who batted getting at least one hit, but no more than two.

Wake Forest got the ball rolling in the first with four runs off Wildcat hurler Ryan Stroker (0-1). Corey Slavik drove in the first run with a grounder to first, plating Jason Aquilante who had walked and gone to third on a double by Jason D’Antona. Josh Hansen’s double scored D’Antona, and the final two runs scored on a wild pitch and a passed ball. In the bottom half, Davidson fought back against Deacon starter Kyle Sleeth. Consecutive singles by Jack Purcell, Stroker, and Tim Frend brought home a run. After one out, Billy Ryan grounded a double down the third-base line for another run. The big blow of the inning came with two outs and the bases loaded when D.J. Dailey knocked a two-run double to left-center field, tying the game at four.

Wake Forest wasted no time in retaking a four-run lead, tallying four more in the second. Slavik and Hansen each drove in runs before Carlos Brackley capped the frame with a two-run homer.that just cleared the fence in left. Sleeth was replaced by Adam Hanson (5-3) in the bottom of the second, who pitched brilliantly in his five innings of work. Hanson allowed just two base runners, both singles, and struck out five. He retired the last 10 men he faced in order. Hanson had plenty of room to work with, as the Deacons came up with six more runs in the third on three hits, four walks, an error, and a batter reaching first on a wild pitch on a third strike. Wake Forest tacked on single runs in the eighth and ninth innings to complete their scoring. After being held scoreless for six innings, the Wildcats got on the board again in the seventh with a single run. In the ninth, sophomore Matt Young stroked a two-run single, his first hit of the season, to finish the scoring for the day. Brackley led all players with four RBI, including his team-leading 13th home run of the year. D’Antona and Hansen each had two hits and scored three times for Wake Forest. The season is quickly drawing to a close. After today’s rematch against Wake, the Wildcats will travel to Western Carolina for a three-game series this weekend, followed by Duke on May 7 and High Point on May 9. Wofford starter Chad McGill went the distance, yielding only six hits and two runs. His defense was superb behind him, as both shortstop Chad Livingston and second baseman Tony Carbone came up with some excellent plays. Wes Self was the victim of some sloppy play behind him, allowing seven hits and seven runs, but only two earned, in his 5.1 innings of work.

Wofford 4, Davidson 2

In the rubber game between Wofford and Davidson, the Terriers (15-24, 9-11 Southern Conference) won a low-scoring affair, 4-2, to take the three-game series, two games to one. Davidson (18-26, 10-17) mounted a rally in the ninth, but left the tying runs on base. Down 4-1 in the ninth, junior James Marino led off the inning with a single to center for the Wildcats. Pinch-hitter Matt Berry followed by drawing a walk, bringing the tying run to the plate. Senior Cassidy Lundin laced the first pitch he saw to right, only to watch right fielder Tommy Todd make the catch for the first out. But senior Jeremiah Parvin continued the rally with a solid single to right to load the bases. Wofford shortstop Chad Livingston then came up with the game-saving play, diving to his right to field a grounder and throwing to second for a force, which brought home Marino. Terrier hurler George Lehr (6-5) reached back for a little extra at that point, striking out the final hitter for the complete-game win. All three Terriers pitchers twirled complete games in the series. In Lehr’s route-going performance, he allowed eight hits and three walks while striking out five. Davidson opened the scoring in the bottom of the first. With one out, senior Ryan Stroker lined a slicing single to center. Junior Tim Frend followed with a single that was misplayed by the left fielder, allowing Stroker to score all the way from first. Wofford tied the game in the top of the third inning. With runners on second and third with one out, Strat Stavrou lined a single to center to score one run, but junior Stephen Aldrich easily threw out D.J. Rhodes trying to score from second. The Terriers grabbed their first lead of the afternoon with a run in the sixth. Chris Cotugno blooped a two-out double into shallow right field to score Livingston, who had walked, from first. In the top of the eighth, Wofford scored two important insurance runs. Stavrou opened the frame with a single on an 0-2 pitch. Frend, on in relief, retired the next two hitters, then issued an intentional walk to Cotugno with first base open. Lawson Burnat drew a walk on a full count, loading the bases for Bowyer. Bowyer delivered by lining a two-run single to left. Wildcat starter Andy Demko (2-3) had a strong performance in the loss, yielding four hits and two runs in 6.1 innings. Bowyer and Stavrou each had two hits as Wofford managed just six safeties on the day. Marino and Parvin led Davidson with a pair of hits as well.

Sponsored by the Davidson College Union Board Concert and Student Performers Committees. Come down and say “Good Bye” to the Outpost in style on Thursday night. The Papa D band will be opening at 9 pm followed by our headliner—Virginia Coalition at 10:30. FREE QUESADILLAS will be served beginning at 9:30 pm. So take a study break, be nostalgic, and say “goodbye” to the Outpost!