THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Matt Monson

Davidson forward Chris Pearson (22) scores two of his 15 points during Thursday’s exhibition win against Team Vantaa. Seniors Emeka Erege and Michael Bree ’02 garnered 14 and 12, respectively.

Stars outshine Wildcats in preseason exhibition match

Sloppy first half, turnovers doom women in loss

By MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

It was one of those nights when you thank the heavens it’s only November.

The women’s basketball team prefaced its season with an uninspired 89-67 loss to the Charlotte Stars on Wednesday night at Belk Arena.

After a 28% shooting performance dropped the ’Cats behind 48-29 at the half, first-year head coach Annette Watts rallied her players for a redeeming second frame in which the ’Cats shot 41% and connected on three of six three-point attempts.

“Were we disappointed in the score? Sure. Were we disappointed in the first half performance? Sure,” Watts said. “But we were so proud of the second half our girls played.”

Senior captain Kelly Copland and sophomore point guard Ashley Hallsted keyed the comeback effort, chipping in 15 points each. Copland also grabbed eight rebounds.

Joy Newsome also turned out a sharp performance, tossing in six points and grabbing three boards in her first 12 collegiate minutes.

Still, the ’Cats need to find a way to exorcise twin ghosts that haunted them last year—flat first-half shooting and sloppy ball-handling. Davidson shot 11 for 39 in the first half, and turned the ball over 25 times on the night.

“We had some flashbacks from last year—we were flat, we were out of it, the team knows that,” said Watts.

Admittedly, the Stars were an intimidating team. A pair of prime-time players, Tia Pascal (Florida State) and Julia Burton (Charlotte), combined for 47 points.

And 6-5 Jackie Farmer (Clemson) loomed large in the paint—holding Wildcat post shooters to just 6-24 from the floor.

“There were two All-Americans out there playing,” Watts noted. “But I’m not making any excuses.”

The ’Cats look to bounce back in a season-opening tournament at the U.S. Naval Academy this weekend. Davidson opens against Army on Friday night, then will play either Pennsylvania or Hofstra on Saturday.

“We learned that we have to bust our tails every minute of every game,” said Watts. But behind her acknowledged disappointment on Wednesday, Watts’ eyes shined with optimism.

“Our girls are hungry, they want to do better,” she said. “So they’re going to be all right.”

basketball preseason win

By MATT GARFIELD
Managing Editor

With season-opening games at Charlotte and Chapel Hill just days away, Bob McKillop says his Davidson team needs all the leadership it can get.

For McKillop, the best thing about last Thursday’s 82-57 preseason win over Finland’s Team Vantaa was exactly that.

“I thought our communication and our leadership were superb,” said McKillop. “When the bullets start flying at the start of the season, we will need to have those intangibles on a consistent basis.”

The Wildcats made a 21-2 run late in the second half to pull away from Team Vantaa, made up of nine Finnish players and former Purdue forward Greg McQuay. Junior Chris Pearson led with 15 points, Emeka Erege had 14 and Michael Bree added 12.

The game was a reunion of sorts for sophomore forward Jouni Eho, a native of Finland who played one season for Team Vantaa before coming to Davidson.

“For the past couple of days, I’ve been really nervous,” said Eho, who scored 12 points in 21 minutes on the floor. “Those guys were my best friends. I was happy to show them how much I’ve improved since I’ve been here.”

Davidson suffered an injury-plagued 15-17 season last year, its first losing record in eight years. With 11 players returning—including four seniors—experience will likely be one of the Wildcats’ greatest assets.

“I really believe that the upperclassmen are receptive to the fact that they have an opportunity to lead this team,” said McKillop. “They have set a great tone for the first month of the season.”

WHAT’S AT STAKE: Mecklenburg County bragging rights will be on the line when the men’s basketball team opens the season Friday at Charlotte.

The 49ers have won the past five Hornets’ Nest trophies, given annually to the winner of this cross-county rivalry game.

Last season, more than 5,000 spectators crowded Belk Arena and watched star guard Jobey Thomas score 19 points to lead Charlotte to a 69-53 victory.

Davidson’s last victory against the 49ers came in 1996.

THE TEAMS: Thomas and speedy point guard Demon Brown comprise a potent 49ers backcourt, but the team is somewhat inexperienced at other positions.

That could be the difference in the game, as Davidson’s starting line-up will likely include three seniors (point guard Michael Bree, forward Emeka Erege and center Martin Ides) and two juniors (forward Chris Pearson and shooting guard Peter Anderer), each of whom played significant minutes last year.

A near-capacity crowd is expected at 9,000-seat Halton Arena in anticipation of another heated, emotional game.

Davidson vs. North Carolina
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
Dean E. Smith Center, Chapel Hill

The Wildcats play North Carolina for the first time since the 1969 East Region final of the NCAA Tournament, which the Tar Heels won 87-85. This is the first regular season match-up since the 1953-54 season.

Matt Garfield

Sarah Davis

Janna Magette ’02 launches a shot over a Charlotte Stars defender.