12 Tue DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2001

Football falls to Morehead State, 28-17
Second-half comeback dooms ’Cats in their second loss of the season
By Jackie DAVIDSON
Staff Writer

Football is a game not only of inches, but also inspiration. Whatever inspiration Morehead State head coach Mike Ballard offered
his Eagles team at halftime made up for a lot of inches. In the second half, MSU rallied from a
17-0 deficit to defeat Davidson 28-17 Saturday afternoon at Jayne Stadium. Fullback Nick Wooldridge led the way with a pair
of touchdowns, as the MSU offense exploded in the second half, scoring all of its points on four of its
final five possessions.

Initially, Davidson seemed poised to best its new conference rival. The Wildcats turned in an impressive all-around first half performance,
including a 17-point production by the offense and an outstanding effort by the defense and special teams. On the special
teams side, junior Jarred Cochran downed a Chris Costello punt inside the Eagle one-yard line, setting up a blocked punt
by junior Mo Idlibi after the Eagles failed to advance.

Meanwhile, the Davidson defense repeatedly denied the MSU offense in its end zone attempts. Senior linebacker Sam Fraundorf recovered a
fumble by Eagles quarterback David Caudill on the Davidson 10-yard line to set up a 90-yard touchdown drive by the
Davidson offense. With 1:33 remaining in the half, junior quarterback Paul Nichols found freshman John Leverett for the five-yard score,
giving Davidson a 10-0 lead. Forty-three seconds later, the Davidson defense forced another MSU turnover. Once again, the offense capitalized.
This time, Nichols hit Barrett Johnson in the end zone for the 20-yard TD, giving the Wildcats a 17-0 lead
and tremendous momentum going into the half.

The game, however, proved to be far from over. With 3:20 left to play in the third period, the MSU
rally began when Wooldridge scored the Eagles’ first points on a one-yard run up the middle, cutting the Wildcats’ lead
to 10. After stopping the Davidson offense on its next possession, the Eagles marched down the field again, scoring its
second straight touchdown, a four-yard run by Caudill, which reduced the Wildcat lead to two. On their next drive, the
Eagle offense continued its scoring onslaught, mounting an impressive nine-play, 84-yard drive capped by a screen pass from Caudill to
fullback Nick Covin for a 21-yard TD, giving the Eagles their first lead of the game, 21-17. A few minutes
later, Wooldridge sealed the Eagle victory with a 12-yard TD run to the left corner of the end zone.

In the second half, the MSU offense outgained the Cats 264 yards to 60. Caudill finished 19-for-25 for 203 yards
passing. Wooldridge ended the game with 53 yards on 5 carries. For the Wildcats, Nichols threw for 147 yards, going
17-for-28, including a pair of touchdowns. Johnson led all receivers with seven receptions and 80 yards. The ’Cats will look
to get back to their winning ways next weekend as they travel to Georgetown to take on the Hoyas. Kickoff
is scheduled for noon.

Club Sport Spotlight
Evan McCormick
Special Contributor

Davidson's roller hockey team suffered a recent devastating 6-5 loss, putting the team in danger of missing the playoffs for
the first time in the organization’s short yet illustrious history. If the team had a coach, he would have been
upset with the team’s performance. The Wildcats were unable to generate sufficient offense to offset the relentless forechecking of the
Whalers. Limited offensively due to injuries and player absences, the Wildcats struggled to put the puck in the back of
the net. Richard Connolly once again provided much of the Wildcats’ offense, collecting four goals. Jim Davidson rounded out the
team’s scoring with a beautiful tally.

If there was any positive in last week’s game, it was the performance of the defense. Although Davidson was able
to limit the explosive Whalers to six goals, excellent by roller hockey standards, the hill was still too high to
climb. The Whalers came out strong against the Wildcats' defensive corps. Strikingly similar to the Taliban’s military sites that were
destroyed this past week, the Wildcats' defensive unit was demolished. If the team had a coach, he would have been
disappointed with the team’s defensive play. Due to the squad’s disappointing performance, the local media was not silent. The silence
from the organization accentuates Davidson’s perilous situation. With only two games remaining, the Wildcats must win both games to guarantee
a playoff berth. If the team manages only one victory, then a lot of lingering questions will remain. Pressure will
surely be placed on the shoulders of veteran leaders Jay Hollis and Andrew Foerster to re-ignite playoff hopes.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and Trip Cook. Furthermore, younger players such as Weston Waxweiler and Ned Conway will be challenged to extend their successful
rookie campaigns. Davidson still clings to the hope of another championship—will they succeed? The fearless play of Richard and Jim
as they almost single-handedly provided enough offense to sink the Whalers. If the team had a coach, he would be
out fast and furious, taking an early lead and successfully frustrating the opposition. Granted access into the team’s locker room
after the game, the eerie playoff appearance will most likely be decided by tiebreakers. Going winless in the next two
games will result in an off-season and a string of losses. The squad will surely look towards the return of
Josh Vooriess and Leaping on top again... Bron Bary: Thiele.

Is it a great day to be a Wildcat?
By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Sports Editor

Davidson owns the biggest wildcat statue in the world. It’s eleven feet long, 1500 pounds, and completely unnecessary. Irwin Belk
’45 funded the colossal cat’s creation specifically for the college. The statue will be installed in front of Baker Sports
Complex, near the Irwin Belk track. Yup, same guy. As many may recall, that track was “completed” roughly three years
ago thanks to the generous funding by Belk. But was it really completed? The 400-meter, eight-lane track boasts enough surface
for long-jump and pole-vault runways, a steeplechase water-jump pit, and a high-jump and javelin-throw area in addition to the standard
racing lanes. The track team has everything it wants, right? Wrong. Since the surface dried, little more than a shoddy
paint job (which had to be redone) was added to the track. The men’s and women’s track teams have no
high-jump and pole-vault bars or pits. They have no steeplechase barriers beyond the one water-jump pit that waits year after
year to be filled. The sprinters have no starting blocks, and for the last two years when the school has
hosted the Irwin Belk Invitational track meet, the school has borrowed starting blocks and hurdles from UNC-Charlotte because Davidson has
few or none.

The above is just one of many examples of under-equipped athletic programs at Davidson. Returning to the gracious donation of
the world’s largest wildcat statue, I question the funding necessary to construct such a statue and its purpose within the
athletic community. Will the statue bolster school spirit and team morale? No. Will the statue draw larger crowds to home
athletic events? No. Will the statue represent anything to the community a year from now other than a target of
vandalism or fraternity pranks? I predict not. I think the statue is a waste of money at a college that
could use such a big monetary expenditure elsewhere (i.e. its athletic programs). All that big hunk of bronze symbolizes to
me is my school’s lack of support for athletics. Why does the construction of a statue take precedence over lack
of sufficient athletic equipment?

Every year, athletes work with the Davidson Athletic Fund to hound new and old athletic alumni and beg for program
funding. I’ve called alumni and listened to each refusal echo my own resentment towards a school that hardly provides the
bare essentials. Varsity athletes sacrifice their time and their grades for this school with little thought of recognition. Many of
these athletes share my view that this statue is a vulgar manifestation of Davidson’s nonexistent athletic support. If the school
respects its athletic programs, it should equip the track, light the baseball field, or turf the field hockey field. The
wildcat statue is supposed to symbolize Davidson’s overachieving spirit, right? Put it in front of our Chambers academic building, where
all the real spirit resides. We’re fresh out at Baker.

Inspirational Quote of the Week:
“So long as there is breath in me, that long will I persist. For now I know one of the
greatest principles of success; if I persist long enough, I will win.” — Og Mandino

FOOTBALL
Oct. 13 @ Georgetown 12:00
Oct. 20 @ Randolph-Macon 1:00

VOLLEYBALL
Oct. 12 Wofford 7:00
Oct. 20 @ Chattanooga 2:00

MEN’S SOCCER
Oct. 13 @ VMI 11:00
Oct. 17 @ Wake Forest 7:00

WOMEN’S SOCCER
Oct. 12 @ Chattanooga 7:00
Oct. 14 @ Western Carolina 1:00
Oct. 19 College of Charleston 7:00
Oct. 20 William & Mary 12:00

FIELD HOCKEY
Oct. 12 @ Vermont 11:00
Oct. 15 @ Holy Cross 4:00
Oct. 16 @ Maine 12:00

CROSS COUNTRY
Oct. 13 Men: Furman Invitational
Women: Intercollegiates

Freshman Julia Hueckel pounds the ball home in last Tuesday’s game against North Carolina A&T. See page 10 for complete
results.
