_By Mike ANDERSON ~ Editor Emeritus_

Senior captains Janna Magette and Bethany Schott combined for 36 points and 15 rebounds as Davidson toppled Southern Conference foe
College of Charleston 65-64 in Belk Arena. With the victory, the Wildcats pounced to a 1-0 conference record—capturing their first
conference-opener win since 1997.

“I was so excited for this team,” beamed first-year coach Annette Watts. “I jumped off the bench all the way
out to where our players were celebrating at half-court. I was so excited that I forgot to shake hands with
[Charleston head coach Melissa Slone].”

Slone’s Cougars entered the game 4-0, having defeated early-season opponents by an average margin of 85-62. Janna Magette, who was
honored in a pre-game ceremony for recording her 1000th career point two weekends ago against Penn, led all scorers with
21 points. Schott added 15 points, and sophomore guard Ashley Hallsted dished out a career-best 11 assists.

“I can’t say enough about Ashley Hallsted,” Watts praised. “What an amazing [box score] line: four of eight shooting, seven
rebounds, eleven assists, and only four turnovers at the point.”

The Wildcats managed to ignite early, jumping out to a 13-10 lead after five minutes. After carrying a 32-28 advantage
into the half, the ’Cats fell behind 53-47 with 7:20 to play. But Davidson would spurt for six straight points
over the next thirty seconds—a Bethany Schott lay-up tied the game at 53. Charleston hung tight, though, and created the
half’s fifth tie, 64-64 with twenty seconds to play. Then Bethany Schott converted a lay-up, and Davidson’s defense held taut
for the final thirteen seconds to seal the victory.

“We didn’t have a great shooting night, nor did we have a great rebounding night,” admitted Watts, whose team shot
42% from the floor (including 2-11 from the arc) and were out-rebounded 53-47. “It takes great defense to win when
you don’t do both of those things. And our girls played outstanding defensively tonight.”

Courtney Laird helped the ’Cats on the boards, coming down with a career-best 10 rebounds to keep Davidson in contention.
Perhaps the most inspiring effort of the night, though, came from Schott, a 6-0 forward recovering from a year off
due to an ACL-MCL injury. The red-shirt junior shot 7-11 from the floor en route to 15 points and 6
rebounds.

“Bethany will [turn in great performances like tonight] every game as she becomes more and more confident overcoming that knee
injury,” Watts said. “Our defense keys off of Bethany Schott, and she’s solid.”

The contest was a key test for this young and rebuilding Davidson squad—a sort of a Goldilocks contest coming off
an easy win over Jacksonville and losses to high-ranked Duke and Missouri over the past five days. But Davidson matched
up “just right” against their SoCon foe, and will carry a 1-0 conference record (3-3 overall) into Halton Arena Thursday
when they face cross-county rival UNC-Charlotte.

---

**Injured ACL may bench Copland for remainder of the season**

_By Mike ANDERSON & ERIN DELK Staff Writers_

The women’s basketball team returned from the Thanksgiving break with an impressive 2-3 mark against some stiff competition, not to
mention a roster firing on nearly all cylinders as they entered Tuesday night’s Southern Conference-opener against the College of Charleston
in Belk Arena.

In the ten-day period surrounding Thanksgiving, the Cats knocked off Army and Jacksonville, hung tough against an illustrious Penn program,
and ran with some of the best in the country at the Duke Basketball Classic. A well-balanced roster shot 41
percent (stats through November 21) with nine different players averaging at least five points per game. At the front of
the pack, senior guard Janna Magette has opened her final campaign with a blast—averaging 18 points and 4.3 rebounds per
game. A trio of solid posts, senior Bethany Schott and sophomores Meghan Bryant and Courtney Laird, are combining for 20
points and 15 rebounds per game, while Lindsay Shade is keying a strong bench performance, knocking down 7 of 10
from behind the arc on her way to 7.3 points per night. Robyn Flewelling tallied a dazzling 19 assists through
the season’s first three games, and sophomore Ashley Hallsted is netting over nine points per night.

Mike Anderson

Captain Kelly Copland ‘02 tore her ACL and may miss her senior season as a Wildcat. Three freshmen—Emily Callahan, Joy
Newsome, and Janelle Fassbender—also contributed heavily, combining for over twelve points a game. All that would have made for an
upbeat and successful start to this re-arming year for the Wildcats. Save one thing.

Just thirteen minutes into her senior season, captain Kelly Copland crashed to the floor of the Christl Arena at West
Point. Copland suffered what was later determined to be a torn ACL and meniscus—in all likelihood, a career-ending injury. An
admired floor leader, and a crucial chunk of this young team’s soul, Copland’s injury was a devastating loss. Copland, a
6-0 forward from California hindered by chronic back injuries over the course of her career, was coming off a break-out
season in which she was the team’s leading rebounder and second-leading scorer. (Copland wowed the Wildcat faithful early last December,
scoring a career-best 24 points in a gritty championship-night performance to capture MVP honors at the BankRI/Brown Classic in Providence.
Then-Wildcat coach John Filar called it “one of the toughest performances I’ve ever seen.) After being selected captain this...Fall, expectations
were high for a spectacular swan-song campaign. “We’re going to miss her,” said Bethany Schott. “This weekend playing against bigger,
larger teams (Missouri and Duke) showed us how much we need her. She’s still extremely important to us, though—the team
looks to her leadership.”

“It’s hard to replace someone that does so many things,” added Ashley Hallsted. “So much of Kelly’s game tended to
go unnoticed for so long, until she’s not there to do all those little things you’re used to her doing.
It’s going to take all of us to fill the void her absence has created on this team, we’re just
beginning to feel that.”

Even more unsettling, Copland’s injury added to a long list of knee woes for the class of Wildcats that entered
in 1998. The five of them have endured six ACL tears and ten knee surgeries—Leah Uhernik and D’Erica Taylor have
spent much of their careers (including this season) sidelined, battling knee injuries. “Emotionally, it’s rough to look down the bench
and see three-fifths of our class in street clothes,” said Schott, who endured a torn ACL and MCL last season.

Copland hasn’t ruled out an attempted comeback—trainers could brace the ACL and defer surgery, but the continued wear-and-tear would likely
spell more permanent damage to the injured knee. So the Wildcats are looking forward, and the bench has come through
for first-year head coach Annette Watts in Copland’s absence. “No one can fill Kelly’s shoes,” said Courtney Laird. “So everyone
has to step up.”

Women’s Hoops Wrap-up

DAVIDSON 72, Army 58

WEST POINT, NY (November 16)—The Wildcats opened their season with a rousing comeback over Army, capturing a first-round 72-58 victory
here at the Army Tip-Off Classic. The win hands Annette Watts a “W” in her first-ever game as a collegiate
head coach and marks only the third Davidson season-opening triumph in the program’s recent history.

“Getting that first win, and playing with the heart that we played with was a tremendous feeling,” said Watts. “I
was happy that the team could see when you play that hard, good things happen.”

Army jumped out to a 14-3 first-half lead as Davidson kept the Christl Arena rims busy in the early-going, bricking
13 of their first 14 field goal attempts. But sophomore center Meghan Bryant came off the bench, spurring an 8-0
Davidson run over just 2:18 to close the gap. Then Janna Magette and Ashley Hallsted caught fire after the half,
combining for 25 second-half points on their way to a team-best 14 points each.

“The girls came out focused in the second half,” Watts said. “We knew we had to get solid on defense,
and we did. When our defense is solid, our offense is solid—that was the difference in the second half.”

Watts showcased a newly discovered depth on her young Wildcat squad—nine different players saw double-digit court minutes, six of them
scoring five or more points. Bryant netted 13 points and grabbed 10 rebounds before fouling out, recording a double-double in
just 16 minutes. And sophomore forward Robyn Flewelling proved influential in the comeback spurt; she also finished with a team-best
five assists and three steals.

“There was no doubt about how good Robyn is,” said Watts. “[Robyn] is a vital part.”

Three Wildcat freshmen made impressive debuts—led by Emily Callahan, who scored nine points and snared three rebounds. “Tonight was such
a big step,” said Watts. “The sophomores really stepped up, and Callahan played tremendously.”

Mike Anderson

DAVIDSON 70, Pennsylvania 75

WEST POINT, NY (Nov. 17)—Though they fell just shy of capturing a trophy to prove it, the Wildcat women proved
they’re for real this weekend. “We played with heart,” said Annette Watts. “We played with desire. We gave it all
we had.”

After rolling through Army in the season-opening weekend tournament here in New York, the ‘Cats hung tough with a solid
Pennsylvania squad on Saturday night. Pennsylvania—who won 21 straight contests last year and earned an NCAA Tournament berth—used a 14-4
run over the game’s last six minutes to outlast Davidson and capture the conference championship.

“We missed some shots late in the game that would’ve been the difference,” Watts said. “One of our game goals
is that our posts score 30 points a game. We missed that, and we missed having that late in the
game as well.”

Janna Magette scored a career-best 28 points and grabbed six rebounds, earning all-tournament team honors. “Janna had her game face
on,” said Watts. “She played hard, she played intense.” Still, Watts noted, the squad will fare better when numerous players
share the scoring load. The Wildcats put their depth on display Saturday night—for the second straight night, nine different players
logged double-digit minutes.

“At this level, to run the kind of game we want to run, everybody is vital,” explained Watts.

Among the most impressive was sophomore guard Lindsay Shade. Shade scored seven points in fourteen minutes off the bench, and
proved a competent helmsman for the Wildcat offense. “Lindsay Shade created our run in that game, diving on the floor
for loose balls, protecting the ball on offense, and taking care of her teammates,” said Watts. “She’s a tremendous leader.”

Also key off the bench was Courtney Laird, a 6-2 platoon starter in the post. “Courtney played hard on both
ends of the floor. Her shot will fall,” said Watts. “She showed good range, and her intensity on defense showed
how she, like Lindsay Shade, knows what we want.”

Mike Anderson

(See Wrap-up, page 11)
