Read the following selection and answer the questions that follow. You will have fifteen minutes. Please begin... now.

President Bush wants to “get down to business” reforming public education in America. Borrowing language directly from the business world, he envisions a system based on performance and accountability. One key provision of his plan is the institution of standardized testing for school systems across the nation. Apparently, continued federal funding would be linked to increases in students’ scores in certain academic areas. In theory, this would serve two purposes. First, testing would make school systems, individual schools, and even individual teachers accountable to a single objective standard. If scores go up, they are doing their job; if scores go down, something needs to change. The indicators are clear, and one can easily assess quality. Second, this system would equate education with the much more quantifiable concept of performance. Just as students are expected to perform in order to be promoted, schools and teachers would be required to demonstrate some actual achievement if they are to continue to operate. Or perhaps more applicably, just as businesses must keep making profits, teachers would have to keep cranking out educated children. Ultimately, the quality of public education is supposed to rise.

Unfortunately, this economic model does not apply so well to the learning process. For instance, while objective, standardized tests do a great job of measuring rote knowledge, they are a poor judge of thinking ability. A multiple-choice test can judge whether a person can add, subtract, and spell “Mississippi.” It cannot measure creativity, persuasiveness, or problem-solving ability. In an economy that rewards innovation and adaptability, it seems more reasonable to try and teach those skills that will lead to success. Moreover, by micromanaging curricula and insisting on uniform standards of learning, systems of standardized testing may actually frustrate the pursuit of excellence. Instead of coming up with ways to challenge and inspire students, teachers will be encouraged to teach specifically to the tested material. As college students, we are all acquainted with such familiar standardized tests as the SAT, LSAT, MCAT, and GRE. However, all of those tests are used not as absolute standards of progress but as comparative tools for other institutions — which is exactly what standardized tests are good for. President Bush has the right idea by trying to make schools and teachers accountable to something other than their own status quo. Holding them to some basic standards may also be appropriate, especially at lower levels. He needs to respect the academic endeavor, however, as a process unto itself and not quantifiable in terms of numerical progress. Standardized testing is supposed to produce a) better teachers and b) educated students. In fact, linking funding to test scores will unfortunately yield c) none of the above.

It’s time for Spring Break, minus the Spring

Pack up your parka and stock up on hot chocolate, it’s almost time for Spring Break 2001! Here at Davidson we do Spring Break right, taking our vacation just in time to enjoy the last chilly blasts of the winter weather. Who needs sunny skies and warm temperatures when you can have cold drizzling rain? Early March is the perfect time to “get away from it all.”

Another bonus of our academic calendar is that we do not have to see those bothersome friends from other schools during our time away from classes. Schools such as Duke, North Carolina State, Texas, UNC, and Wake Forest all foolishly schedule their spring breaks for the week after Davidson’s. In fact, since dreary weather and isolation are so restful and relaxing, why not just make break earlier by another week? We could call it “Winter Break II” or perhaps “Pre-Spring Break.” Or better yet, let’s just eliminate the whole business and make Winter Break a week longer. That way we’d be guaranteed a dismal climate and no social life. So study for those midterms, write those papers, because relief is on the way. Pack your bags, book the plane tickets, and get ready to hit the beach for some prime ice fishing.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck, Editors-in-chief

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
Business Managers
COPY EDITOR
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITORS
CIRCULATION MANAGER

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Standardized testing fails our education system

President George W. Bush: “I am in control”

By John Pitts
Columnist

Three weeks into the Bush presidency, Democrats are left to sulk about, scratching their heads and asking what could have gone so wrong. They had promised their constituencies that a moronic boob had taken the reins and that the country would be paralyzed by his inability to produce a cogent thought. The Democrats felt primed to take an equal role in setting the agenda, while taking advantage of Bush’s ineptitude toBuild a favorable voting coalition. With their successful control of the legislature, they could bank on a majority in both houses after the midterm elections. What sadness and dismay must be permeating their ranks this week as the Democratic leadership realizes that Bush has successfully garnered national attention, set the agenda, broken the Democratic voting bloc, and made great strides in building bipartisan coalitions on most every banner issue. Displaying political adeptness that no pundit could have predicted, Bush is governing with the power of a mandate and is crippling Democratic potency.

President Bush has commanded national attention and the spotlight of the media since his first full day in office. In presidential politics, setting the national agenda means setting the media agenda. When Bush has talked about education, tax cuts, and missile defense, the country has responded. The Bush administration has dominated the national spotlight, leaving the Democrats to flounder in their search for an identity in the absence of Clinton. These days, Democrats are only making the news during their frequent meetings with Bush—and they have consistently acquiesced to his common-sense approaches to the issues of the day.

Early on, the even split in the Senate had the Democrats trumpeting their ability to control the agenda over cabinet and judicial appointments. Democratic leadership had promised that it would present a unified front and wield its power in the Senate and stonewall the Republican nominees. During the Ashcroft vote, Democratic powerhouses John Breaux, Christopher Dodd, Zell Miller, and Robert Byrd, in addition to four other Democrats, sided with the Republicans and thus caused the Democratic dream of controlling the Senate to come crashing down. Instead of controlling the agenda, the Democrats need to shift their focus to building an organized voting bloc.

Opposition to Bush’s tax cut has been all but destroyed after the venerable Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan announced his support of the tax cut, describing it as proactive and responsible. Initially embraced by the Republican majority, the tax cut is now being supported by numerous influential Democrats like Zell Miller of Georgia and Tom Daschle of South Dakota. With the slowing economy and layoffs approaching, a tax cut is a certainty; the only debate is over the size. A victory in this most controversial issue not only will continue to embolden and empower Bush, but also will simultaneously weaken the Democrats’ ability to successfully oppose any Presidential initiatives.

Bush’s “education week” also got off with a bang after visits to various racially diverse schools in the DC area. Bipartisan support for the majority of his bill has already been secured. Even if Bush drops vouchers, he still can reintroduce them as a tax credit after he has fortified his position in the legislature with a popular victory over education and tax cuts. Like the Bush tax cut, the missile defense plan also has been all but formally guaranteed. The Republican majority is solidly behind Bush and he has garnered enough Democratic support for the plan to be approved. Presently, Colin Powell and the foreign policy All Stars are in Europe successfully proposing the plan to NATO. Presumably, it should not be long until the American people can be assured of their safety from nuclear rogue nations.

Bush is solidly on top after a glowing three weeks. The moronic boob has managed to push the bulk of his agenda effectively and quickly, while leaving the Democrats gasping for air and searching for organization and identity. Bush will continue to steamroll the opposition while building popular support through his control of the media and agenda. It will not be long until the American people ask, “Do the Democrats have anything to offer our nation other than ineffective opposition to popular initiatives?” Save a miraculous change in leadership strategy, the answer is a resounding NO!

---

Treat Commons’ picnic tables with respect

At the Commons, it is our goal to be a part of your college experience in a real and positive manner. We believe our physical setting is aesthetically pleasing and we continue to expand our services based on many of your requests. This past summer, we replaced the old, worn wooden picnic tables with a more durable model to provide a comfortable venue for outdoor dining. You expressed gratitude for this change and have enjoyed using them over the past several months.

Unfortunately, in the past two months, these tables/benches have been subjected to regular abuse each weekend. We purchased tables and benches that would give years of enjoyment, but at this current pace, they will need to be replaced long before they should be. We want to be good stewards of student fees; replacing expensive equipment prematurely is a terrible waste of these funds.

Please help us take care of all of the many amenities placed around campus to ensure they can be enjoyed by everyone.

- Barbara Metzler, Director of Dining Services