A LIBERTAS @ Davidson COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2001 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 21

Flynn crusades against convicted ‘cop killer’
By Brent Byars
Staff Writer

Twenty years ago on a cold December night in Philadelphia, Police Officer Danny Faulkner was shot once in the back and then in the face. The police immediately knew they had their man, as five eyewitnesses identified Mumia Abu-Jamal as the killer. Abu-Jamal was tried, convicted, and sentenced to death for the killing. This murder, far removed from everyday work and life, yet still deeply embedded in our collective consciousness, continues to spark debate across the U.S., especially on college campuses.

The Abu-Jamal case is plagued by what many call factual inconsistencies and corruption within the Philadelphia police force. Among other things, defenders of Abu-Jamal claim that other witnesses saw different people fleeing the scene of the crime, that Abu-Jamal was merely trying to assist the fallen officer, or that he was framed by a police force trying to silence an outspoken advocate of racial profiling in the city.

Last week the Conservative Alliance of Davidson hosted Dan Flynn, the Executive Director of Accuracy in Academia. Flynn came to Davidson to speak about what he considers Abu-Jamal’s obvious guilt and manipulation of the press and public opinion. AIA describes itself as an “educational organization dedicated to returning higher education to its original mission: the search for truth.” Many have identified AIA as a group committed to branding political correctness as “censorship.” Its views are often at odds with the prevailing opinion among undergraduates, faculty, and administrations at even the most conservative institutions. (On the organization’s website, http://www.academia.org, Flynn claims that AIDS education efforts “mislead” heterosexuals into thinking they could get AIDS.)

The Conservative Alliance also invited members of Amnesty International and the Young Democrats to Flynn’s lecture, in an attempt to encourage debate. Objecting to both Flynn’s “extremist views” and his highly negative opinion of Abu-Jamal’s supporters, Amnesty met together before the lecture on the patio of the Union. Here, members gathered to learn about the background of the Accuracy in Academia organization and to read from Abu-Jamal’s book Live on Death Row. Amnesty leader Etta Dixon ‘01, though, encouraged an atmosphere of mutual respect towards Flynn and see Mumia, page 5

Tuition hike puts yearly fees at an all-time high
By Timothy Cook
News Editor

The price to attend Davidson is on the rise again. The Board of Trustees recently announced a 3.8 percent increase in the cost of tuition, raising the total price for incoming freshmen to $30,823. 

The decision stems from the need to upgrade technology, to stay even with inflation and by the recommendation of the state of North Carolina. Davidson is also in the middle of a capital campaign called “Let Learning be Cherished”, a $250 million project. The reasons for the tuition raise were sent out in a letter to parents and students last week. Among those reasons was to be able to compete better for faculty and staff, News Briefly Arts & Living 12 Perspectives 14 Sports expenditures to upgrade the infrastructure to be more efficient, and creating more technology. That technology cost includes the leasing of a T-3 internet connection, the fastest internet speed available. (Davidson currently has a T-1 connection.) Also, Davidson will increase financial aid “proportional to the increase in the comprehensive fee.”

Other pressing financial obligations include the renovation of the Grey College Union into the new music department building followed by the renovation of Chambers Building. Both projects will require significant funding. The price of tuition of the 2000-2001 school year is currently $29,666, including room and board. Next year’s price will top the $30,000 mark for the first time in Davidson history. Though one of the mostExpensive schools in the state, Davidson did not have the highest increase. Some colleges hiked tuition more than 10 percent, like Lees-McRae College in Banner Elk, North Carolina. But the average increase throughout the country is about four to five percent. Duke University is raising tuition by 4.5 percent this year to over $34,000. The state of North Carolina also moved to increase public university tuition at schools like North Carolina State University and the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill by 4 percent as well.

News Editor

The days of bubble sheets are over. When students register for spring courses, they will fill out their trees online. A new program, entitled WebTree, will enable all course registration to be completed over the Internet. Since early last fall, the Registrar’s office has been working closely with Information Technology Services (ITS) to develop an effective program.

“In addition to being a royal pain for everyone, the bubble sheets are susceptible to multiple errors,” said Dr. Hansford Epes, Registrar. Frequently, students enter ID numbers incorrectly or inadvertently fill in bubbles for the wrong classes. The actual process of registration will not change. Students will receive envelopes containing registration information and their four random numbers. Course preference will still be organized in the “tree” format, but instead of filling in Scantron sheets, an interactive tree will be available online.

Students will access the course site through a link on the Registrar’s website. They will then be asked to provide their ID number. A PIN will also be necessary. Faculty advisors will distribute PINs to their advisees; releasing a PIN will be tantamount to approving the student’s schedule choice. This effectively eliminates the need for advisor signatures. Since interaction with the advisor will remain an integral part of registration, Dr. Epes stresses the importance of students taking the responsibility of contacting their advisors early to make appointments.

Once the site is accessed, the program will confirm the student’s name to ensure they entered the correct ID number. Once a CRN number is entered, the program will display the name of the corresponding class, enabling the user to make sure he or she has chosen the intended class. It will also be possible to save choices and then reopen the worksheet at another time. When the worksheet is complete, the student will send it electronically to the Registrar. During this inaugural run, Dr. Epes is asking students to print out a copy of their tree and submit it, in paper form, to his office as a precaution.

“The downside is that this may be unpredictable. We’ve done numerous trials, so we’re confident that all information will go into the right files. However, we have no way of anticipating other problems, like what see WebTree, page 6

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Decision Davidson
This coming weekend nearly two hundred accepted students will get a good honest look at what it’s like to attend this college. In the meantime, the admissions staff is busily preparing for their arrival.
News page 3

Rape Awareness
The days from March 28 to April 7 at Davidson have been dedicated to increasing consciousness of sexual assaults among the school community in the hope of promoting discourse and achieving prevention. The Rape Awareness committee has sponsored numerous events towards that end.
News page 4

New senators sound off
Get the inside scoop on the recently elected SGA senators. Read their profiles, and find out who represents your interests to the student government.
News page 7

Our restaurant critic visits a favorite local eatery and offers her thoughts on the fare.
Arts & Living page 8