A nationwide moratorium on the death penalty is needed
By ALEX MASSENGALE Columnist

Regardless of your views on the death penalty, it is hard to deny that the U.S. system of capital punishment is deeply flawed. Justice Harry A. Blackmun says the application of the death penalty is “fraught with arbitrariness, discrimination, caprice, and mistake.” Unfortunately, Blackmun is correct. The race and socioeconomic classes of both the perpetrator and the victim often matter more than the severity of the crime.

Blacks and whites both account for approximately the same percentage of murder victims, yet their killers get treated very differently by our judicial system. According to a study by researchers from the University of Florida, blacks convicted of killing whites in Florida are five times more likely to receive death sentences than whites convicted of killing whites. In Texas, blacks found guilty of killing whites are six times more likely to receive death sentences. Nationwide, according to statistics from the Death Penalty Information Center (DPIC), this number is closer to 6.3. For a nation that prides itself on equal protection under the law for all, these numbers are unconscionable. In its current form, our application of capital punishment implies that blacks are not as valuable to society as whites—a message America presumably does not want to send.

The system’s problems go much deeper than that. According to the ACLU, “for every seven people executed in this country since 1976, when the Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment, an eighth person—completely innocent—has been condemned to die and later exonerated.” This amounts to eighty-seven people, forty-four since 1990 according to Amnesty International. A single instance of this would be tragic, but eighty-seven instances are unbelievable. This problem comes from two places. Firstly, most states do not provide enough money for a defendant to mount a proper defense. As a result, indigent death penalty defendants are often afforded very poor counsel. According to a study by the National Law Journal, lawyers for defendants sentenced to death were disbarred or disciplined at a rate 3 to 46 times higher than the rate for other attorneys in their states. Those facing the ultimate penalty deserve the best defense the state can provide, not some of the worst.

Furthermore, death cases are often political issues that politicians turn to their advantage. For instance, during his 1992 presidential campaign, Bill Clinton publicized returning to Arkansas to preside over the execution of Rickey Ray Rector, a black inmate so mentally disabled that he asked the prison staff to put his dessert from his last meal aside so that he could have it later. Prosecutors often do the very same thing. In many municipalities, they seek the death penalty in order to gain a reputation for “getting tough on crime” and thus ensure reelection. A good example of this can be drawn from the case of Walter “Johnny D” McMillian. In Monroeville, Alabama in 1986, a white woman was murdered. After eight months, there were no suspects and the prosecutor and local sheriff’s offices were feeling pressure from their constituents. In response, they arrested McMillian, a black man. No physical evidence linked him to the crime. He was convicted on the basis of testimony by three witnesses and sentenced to die. The DPIC reports that “all three later recanted their testimony, including the only ‘eyewitness,’ who stated that he was pressured by the prosecutors to implicate Johnny D. in the crime.” All four of McMillian’s appeals were denied. Finally, lawyers not under contract with Alabama have it later.

Clinton’s legacy is about much more
By Joe PEARLMAN Special Contributor

Like sludge through a pipe at a toxic waste dump, the adjectives seem to flow when describing the qualities of our recently lapsed President. During the “Lewinsky scandal,” liberal journalist Christopher Hitchens described Bill Clinton as “reckless and trivial.” George Will, in discussing the recent barrage of gifts to the Clintons from private citizens, described the former first couple as “mercenaries.” The most enduring single-word description has been “shameless.” Take your pick, but none of the words you choose are likely to echo Clinton’s election year promise to have “the most ethical administration in history.”

Bill Clinton foreshadowed what was to be the theme of his Presidency when he explained an empty promise he made to enroll in the Arkansas ROTC some thirty-one years ago. He wrote the then-commander of the Arkansas ROTC, after renouncing his commitment to enlist, that he had promised to enroll merely to “preserve his political viability” (most graduate students do not think in terms of their political viability). The Clinton Presidency became all about political expediency, and the truth was merely an impediment to be sacrificed for that end.

While searching for his legacy in his last-ditch efforts to broker a Middle East peace agreement, Clinton had already unwittingly created for himself an enduring place in history. Among his achievements: taking millions in illegally laundered foreign contributions, which quite probably influenced his foreign policy decisions; allowing satellite technology to be sold to the People’s Republic of China by a large contributor in contravention of the advice of the military; selling access to the White House and the Lincoln bedroom; bombing an aspirin factory in Sudan to distract from his domestic troubles; and, of course, the Monica Lewinsky scandal.administration in history.” At the same time, Clinton is lauded as “gifted” and a “political genius,” as if such qualities balance out the ethical and moral free fall that reached terminal velocity in the second Clinton administration. The utter corruption reached its denouement in the first week Clinton was out of office, in the shocking and unconscionable pardon of an international fugitive who illegally traded with Iran at the same time Americans were dying in an attempt to rescue our hostages. The new President no doubt lacks the ability to eloquently “feel your pain” and “care about you.” While the level of professed empathy may decline, a bit less charm and volubility would be a small price to pay for the restoration of a minimal level of ethics, decency, and honesty to the most important office in the free world. Whenever you think Clinton has said or done something truly astounding, showing his lack of a moral compass, he goes one step further. Everyone will have their favorite Clintonian moment, but for sheer gall, I submit the recent Esquire Magazine interview in which he suggested the Republicans in Congress should apologize for his impeachment for, among other things, lying in a deposition in the Paula Jones case. A week or two later, Clinton reached an agreement with the Independent Counsel in which he admitted to giving “false and misleading testimony” in that same deposition. (In the Orwellian spinning which has characterized the past administration, White House counsel David Kendall Clinton embodied to the end the culture of narcissism.) Clinton responded to the first of the “bimbo eruptions” in the campaign year of 1992 by saying he had never had sex with Gennifer Flowers. This denial came after Flowers released a tape of a telephone conversation in which Clinton told Flowers that if they both denied what happened, then no one could prove it was true. Shortly after this denial—which he later contradicted by admitting to a single episode of unambiguous sex with Flowers in the Paula Jones deposition—he was granted the gift of a fawning post-Super Bowl profile by “60 Minutes” in which he blandly admitted that he and his wife had overcome some problems in their marriage. The Flowers eruption was controlled, and the lesson that one could lie on the national stage was cemented. So Clinton learned to compartmentalize the truth: he could use it when convenient, and ignore it when it wasn’t. Political advantage ranked far ahead of the truth in the Clintonian hierarchy of needs, so it is hardly surprising that he could, with utter calculation, look into the collective face of the American people and state what might be his ultimate epitaph: “I did not have sex with that woman.” And had things played out a bit differently (no Linda Tripp, no semen-stained dress), he might have gotten away with it. Clinton bombed a factory in Sudan to deflect attention from his grand jury testimony; affirming to the same Grand Jury that his deposition in the Paula Jones case was accurate (the deposition in which he said he was never alone with Monica Lewinsky). So was this the most ethical administration in history? It depends on what your definition of “ethical” is. Deficit reduction and a vibrant economy do redound to Clinton’s credit, as do the North American Free Trade Agreement and welfare reform. The latter two initiatives were sponsored chiefly by Republicans, but Clinton was willing to go against his party. It may have helped that Dick Morris told Clinton he would lose to Bob Dole if he vetoed welfare reform once again. Clinton embodied to the end the culture of narcissism. He was self-referential in all things, unable to refrain from discussing his choice of underwear in a television interview, or to slink quietly out of town on the day his successor was sworn into office. I halfway expected to see Clinton alongside Britney Spears, playing his saxophone, at halftime of this year’s Super Bowl. Some have expressed concern that George W. Bush will be less vigilant than Clinton in his stewardship of the environment. While there may be cause for concern among caribou in Alaska, there is one urban enclave that will be decidedly cleaner. The foul air around 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue—the malodorous residue of corruption and deceit—is already starting to clear. Joe Pearlman is a graduate of Davidson College. He is an administrative law judge in Charlotte, NC. He asks that comments be sent to pearlman.joseph@esc.state.nc.us.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson

BUSINESS MANAGERS
Peter Clark
David Johnston

COPY EDITOR
Anna Kyanvig

NEWS EDITORS
Tim Cook
Jessica Mering

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Peter Clark
David Johnston

SPORTS EDITORS
Matt Garfield
Burgin Hardin

ARTS & LIVING EDITORS
Martha Hunt
Mara Mordini

PERSPECTIVES EDITOR
Amy Poe

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITORS
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

CIRCULATION MANAGER
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian