The Davidsonian

Magette, Shade lead Lady Wildcats to a win
By Derek Smith
Sports Information Department

BOONE, N.C.—The Davidson Wildcats returned home from Southern Conference rival Appalachian State Tuesday night with an 80-62 victory at the Holmes Convocation Center in women’s basketball action before a crowd of 282.

Davidson (9-15, 4-11) was led by junior guard Janna Magette with a game-high 22 points. Freshman guard Lindsay Shade came off the bench to add a career-high 12 points. Freshman forward Robyn Flewelling added 11 while freshman center Meghan Bryant scored 10. Appalachian State (4-20, 2-13) was paced by 16 points from Jamie Gagliano.

The Wildcats fell behind 3-0 early but quickly went ahead 6-3 with 17:46 to play on a fast break layup by senior guard JoAnne Hassel set up off a steal by junior guard Janna Magette. Hassel added another basket at the 16:16 mark and the Wildcats were ahead 8-4. Davidson pushed the lead to 10-4 on a layup from freshman center Meghan Bryant off a pretty pass from freshman forward Courtney Laird. Bryant scored four of the next six points and the Wildcats held a 16-11 lead at the second media timeout at 11:21.

A Tiffani Johnson three cut the lead to just two points, 16-14, at the 11:02 mark. Freshman Lindsay Shade converted a fast break opportunity with a pass from freshman forward Robyn Flewelling. Another basket by Johnson at 9:14 knotted the score at 18. Magette scored six straight points for Davidson including four consecutive free throws to regain the lead, 24-20. A pull-up jumper just inside the foul line by Flewelling put Davidson up eight points as the final four minutes of the half began. A Bryant layup gave Davidson a 12-point lead, 34-22, at the 2:58 mark of action. The teams traded baskets the remainder of the 20 minutes and the Wildcats went to the locker room with a 41-31 advantage.

Magette opened the second half with the first five points to give Davidson a 46-31 lead. Junior forward Kelly Copland scored her first points of the game on a 12-foot jumper and the Wildcats were ahead again by 15 points with four minutes expired in the second stanza. Shade scored her eighth point, tying a career high, to push the lead to a then game-high of 19 points, 54-35. Laura Edwards scored five straight for App State to cut into the lead, but a give-and-go from senior forward Jessica Heath to Laird stopped the ASU run at 5-0. A sweet turnaround 12-footer by Heath put the Davidson lead at 20 points, 62-42, with 9:24 to play. Hassel converted a three-point play at 8:02 and pushed their lead even higher. The Mountaineers answered quickly to bring the lead below 20 on two free throws from Jamie Gagliano. She added two more free throws and cut the Wildcat lead even further. Shade established a new career best with her third three of the game to put Davidson up 74-54 and seemingly put the game out of reach. The win was Davidson's third straight in the series and the seventh of the last nine.

Magette’s 22 points moved her past Kristen Ferrucci into eighth place on the Wildcat career scoring list with 915 points. Flewelling recorded her first career double-double with her 11-point, 10-rebound performance. Davidson opened the game with a scorching 65.2% (15-24) in the first half and finished the game shooting a season-best 54.7% (29-53) from the field compared to just 33.3% (22-66) for Appalachian State. The Wildcats also continued their strong free throw shooting as they made 18-22 for an 81.8% on the evening.

Sports Information

Freshman Ashley Hallsted

The Wildcats return to action Saturday, February 17 at 3:00 as they host SoCon-foe Wofford College on Senior Day at Belk Arena.

Late 16-point run by Bernard and Ides secures Davidson win
By Matt Garfield
Sports Editor

For 37 minutes, Western Carolina looked like a team destined for victory. You wouldn’t have guessed the Catamounts came into Belk Arena Monday night having won only four of their 25 games. But there they were, up eight late in the second half, out-hustling and outplaying a Wildcats’ team plagued by more injuries and illnesses than at any point in the season. If not for the heroics of Wayne Bernard, Chris Pearson, and Martin Ides, the biggest...of the season—a loss to the Southern Conference doormat—may have occurred. To understand just how close disaster was, consider the following: Four minutes elapsed before Michael Bree hit the game’s first field goal, a jump-shot at the 16:50 mark. Despite hitting only nine of its first 29 attempts, Western Carolina held a 22-20 lead with 3:30 remaining in the first half. The lowest point of all came at the 8:25 mark, when Will Freeman’s lay-up gave Western Carolina a 55-47 lead. That’s when the Davidson triumvirate went to work. First, Chris Pearson, battling the flu, ignited the crowd and, more importantly, his teammates, with a powerful one-handed dunk at the 7:35 mark. And just as he has for the past three games, Bernard caught fire late in the game. His three-pointer from the right wing gave the Wildcats a 58-57 lead they would never relinquish.

“For some reason at halftime, I think to myself, ‘Wayne you’ve got to step it up,’” said Bernard afterward. “I think I need to start saying that to myself before the game.” The sophomore led the Wildcats with 16 points, including a perfect 10-for-10 from the free throw line. Eight of his 10 free throws came in the final 5:05 to help seal the victory. Ides and Pearson kept the resilient Catamounts at bay, swatting away seven shots and scoring a combined 27 points. The Wildcats scored 22 of the game’s final 26 points to earn the type of victory that has all-too-often eluded their grasp this season.

“It was thrilling for me to see so many guys contribute,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “This was a step forward for us. It wasn’t a dramatic step or a giant step. I thought we made plays.” The team held what McKillop called an “intense” meeting on Sunday to talk about how to overcome its recent two-game losing streak—and regain the confidence that had been missing in those losses. “It was a great coming-together,” he said. Added Bernard: “We just needed a time to think about why we were losing. It helped us to realize what was going on.”

Second half comeback not enough: Davidson falls to App State in Boone

Press Release
Sports Information Department

BOONE, N.C.—The Mountaineers of Appalachian State handed Davidson its 15th loss of the season, the most for the Wildcats since 1992, with a 78-70 victory on Saturday afternoon. The score was nearly identical to the first meeting between the two schools, as ASU won in Davidson’s Belk Arena on Jan. 23 by a final of 78-68. And the Mountaineers won the game in much the same fashion, as four of their starters scored in double figures, led by Josh Shehan and Jonathan Butler with 16 apiece. In the previous game, all five starters reached double figures.

In the first half, App. State built a 16-point halftime lead with excellent passing and a strong transition game. The Mountaineers managed to hit 53.1 percent (17-for-32) from the floor, while tallying 12 of their 47 points in the first 20 minutes on fast breaks. Davidson stayed in the game by continuing its recent success from behind the three-point arc, hitting five of its 10 attempts. Over the previous two games, the Wildcats had hit half of their three-pointers as well (20 of 40).

After the intermission, Davidson came out strong, scoring the first seven points of the half. But ASU was able to withstand that run, maintaining at least a seven-point lead until the final two minutes. Layups by sophomore Wayne Bernard and freshman Jouni Eho at 1:47 and 1:06 left, respectively, kept Davidson within six. But the ‘Cats would come no closer. Bernard, after scoring just 12 points over the past two games, kept Davidson in the game by scoring 11 consecutive points (six from the free throw line) in just over three minutes. He finished the game with 15 points, tying him for team-high honors with freshman Nick Booker, who set a career high. Booker hit all four of his field goals, including both three-pointers, plus knocked down five of his six foul shots, having entered the game shooting just 39.5 percent from the free throw line. He also led the team in rebounding with five, as Davidson managed just 29 rebounds for the second straight game.