PEA "Please sign up to help welcome new and prospective Davidsonians to the community. This visit can be crucial in their decision regarding whether or not Davidson is the place for them. We are raffling off a range of prizes, from gift certificates to t-shirts, with the grand prize being a TV/VCR. Each student will receive one ticket for the raffle per student hosted, per night. Additionally, the male hall and female hall with the largest host participation will EACH win a Vermonster from Ben and Jerry’s, and each host on the winning halls will be allotted 3 extra tickets, so encourage your hallmates to sign up! Please sign up now by e-mailing our host coordinators: Men, e-mail Mark Pustay at “mapustay” and Women, e-mail Megan Shafer at “meshafer.” Thanks for your participation, it will be a great weekend!

Novelist Clyde Edgerton to Read From His Work and Present Vereen Bell Award

North Carolina novelist Clyde Edgerton will appear at Davidson College on Thursday, April 5, to read from his work and present writing awards to students. Edgerton’s free public presentation begins at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. He will begin the evening by presenting the Vereen Bell Memorial Awards for Creative Writing to Davidson students, and then read from his work. The Vereen Bell Memorial Award is given annually to a member of the senior, junior, or sophomore class who has done the best work in fiction, poetry, or drama. The award is given in memory of 1932 Davidson graduate Vereen Bell, a promising and successful young novelist and short story writer who was killed in the second battle of the Philippine Sea during World War II.

Edgerton’s accolades include a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship, the Lyndhurst Prize, the Regan-Rubin Award, the 1997 North Carolina Award for Literature, and honorary doctorates from St. Andrew’s College in Laurinburg and UNC Asheville. His novels, often set in a fictionalized version of his North Carolina hometown, include Raney, Walking Across Egypt, The Floatplane Notebooks, In Memory of Junior, and Where the Trouble Sleeps. His short fiction and essays have been published in The New York Times Sophisticated Traveler Magazine, The Southern Review, The Oxford American, and other magazines.

Dr. Bondi holds a doctorate in theology from the University of Oxford, where she specialized in the spirituality of early Christian monasticism. Her publications include To Love as God Loves: Conversations with the Early Church (1987), Memories of God: Theological Reflection on a Life (1995), and A Place to Pray: Reflections on the Lord’s Prayer (1998). She has previously taught at the University of Oxford, the University of Notre Dame, and Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, VA. At Davidson, Dr. Bondi will be lecturing on the topic “All God’s Creatures: Christian Reflections on topics such as problems with attention focus, stress, and disorder in children and in adults. Her most recent books are Worry: Hope and Help for a Common Condition and Driven to Distraction. For more information about her appearance at Davidson, call Paul Gravel at..."the Stranger.” Her lecture series, in two parts, will be on Tuesday, April 10 at 7:30 p.m. and on Wednesday, April 11 at 4:30 p.m., both in the 900 Room of the College Union. These lectures are free and open to the public. Contact the Chaplain’s Office at 704-894-2423 for more information.

Noted Expert on Learning Disabilities & ADD Will Speak at Davidson

Dr. Edward “Ned” Hallowell, a noted Harvard-based child and adult psychiatrist, will speak at Davidson College on Tuesday, April 9, about attention deficit disorder and learning disabilities. The free, public presentation begins at 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium of Chambers Building. Hallowell, founder of The Hallowell Center for Cognitive and Emotional Health in Concord, Mass., has written seven books, including Answers to Distraction, Driven to Distraction, and Connect: 12 Vital Ties That Open Your Heart, Lengthen Your Life, and Deepen Your Soul. For more information on Hallowell’s appearance, contact 704/258-6567.

Congressman Mel Watt to Visit Davidson

U.S. Representative Mel Watt (D-NC) will speak to Visiting Prof. Steve Isenberg’s Newspapers & Politics class on Thursday, April 12. Watt represents the 12th District of North Carolina, which includes Davidson.

Phi Beta Kappa

Election to Phi Beta Kappa, established at Davidson in 1923, is the highest recognition of excellence in scholarship an undergraduate can achieve. Members are required not only to have a grade point average of 3.6 but also to exhibit qualifications of "high scholarship, liberal culture, and good character."

Lauren Baird
Katie Barclay
Brooke Bentley
Ross Boyce
Cara Breeden
Jessie Brown
Christiane Buuck
Margaret Carolla
Ben Carter
Emily Clark
Matt Clifford
Christa Conner
Ben Cooper
Sarah Cottrell
Becky Dobrin
Amelia Fuller
Carley Goodnoe
Jenny Hapgood
Rob Harkey
Rebecca Harris
Matt Hazlett
Rob Heimburger
Taylor Herbert
Heather Hite
Mia Hughes
David Johnston
Alison Kalett
David Kang
Gagan Khanna
Ashley King
Eric Knoche
David Lamar
Andy Lanoha
Christine Larned
Robert Lee
Cari Lentzsch
Jennifer Lewis
Noel McFadden-Gerber
Robert McKeehan
Erin McKinley
Rebecca McLaughlin
Hilary Masell
Katherine Miller
Sarah Moore
Andrew Nash-Webber
Michael Newnam
Andrew Oster
Andy Rhodes
Cameron Richardson
Justin Perkinson
Derek Politzer
Michael Schaefer
Wesley Self
MeeSun Sim
Carrie Smith
Erin Smith
Stacy Spolnik
Kerry Sugrue
Matt West
Will Williams

3/25/01-4/1/01

March 25 - Theft
A student reports $65.00 worth of clothing taken from the laundry room in West Dorm.

March 27 - Theft
A student reports the theft of his bicycle lock from the library.

March 30 - Vandalism
A college employee reports that someone broke the lock from his locker in Baker Sports.

March 20 - Fire Alarm
Fire alarm at Martin Court “F”. Smoke from an outside barbeque activated a sensor on the second floor.

April 1 - Property Damage
High winds moved a boat trailer in Baker Sports, causing it to bump into a student-owned car.

April 1 - Altercation
A Campus Police officer on patrol found 3 students involved in a physical altercation at the intersection of Ridge Rd. & Martin Court. The fight was ended by the officer. There were no injuries. The matter was referred to the Dean of Students.

compiled by Stacey Hill