Wildcat tennis opens Southern Conference season

Men’s and women’s teams begin league play with wins

By Watney Boykin & Elizabeth Moreno
Staff Writers

The women’s tennis team triumphed over Liberty 4-0 on March 12. Due to inclement weather conditions, the team was unable
to play both singles and doubles. But the bad weather did not seem to affect its play. The Wildcats needed
only one hour to sweep all matches, dropping only two games in the process.

Two days later, the women played their first conference match against Chattanooga. After dropping the doubles point, they entered the
singles in need of four wins. They fell short of this goal by only one match and lost 4-3. Excellent
singles performances came from Kelley Cantrell, Catherine Rainbow, and Katherine Hatch.

In the third match of the week, the women lost 7-0 to Western Michigan, a team ranked No. 71 in
the International Tennis Association rankings. “Although we lost, the girls showed a lot of heart and never gave up,” said
coach Jeff Franks. “The other team set up the points and executed, there wasn’t much we could do.”

The women took on Dennison on Saturday, and this time they won the doubles point with two great performances by
combinations Kelley Cantrell/Gayle Jones (#2) and Catherine Rainbow/Katherine Hatch (#3). In the singles, junior Kelley Cantrell (No. 3), freshman Katherine
Hatch (No. 5), and sophomore Catherine Rainbow (No. 6) won their matches, bringing the score to 3-3 with one match
still in play. Sophomore Gayle Jones gave the Wildcats the 4-3 victory with a close win over Valeria Muradov. The
women will play Western Carolina on Friday at 3 pm.

The men’s tennis team had a busy week as well, beginning on Monday against Liberty. The men stole the doubles
point and took that momentum into singles, where they didn’t drop a single match. Against Chattanooga on Wednesday, the men
dropped the doubles point, but the number two doubles team of Winebarger and Gould (#2) put in a good showing
and managed to win their match (score). On Saturday, the Wildcats also played.

Swimming closes season on high note

By Mike Clark
Davidson S.I.D.

Even though the men’s team amassed only one win and the women notched three this season, the year ended on
a high note for many Davidson swimmers. With a total of 35 personal best times set at last weekend’s season-ending
Colonial Athletic Association’s Swimming & Diving Championships, the 2000-01 season will be remembered as one of personal improvement for Wildcat
swimming.

Senior Kurt Hirsekorn got the ball rolling on the first night of the CAA’s when he shattered the school record
in the 200 IM. Three other school records were broken by the men’s team during the weekend. Hirsekorn also broke
the old record in the 200 breast with a time of 2:03.48. In the 200 fly, freshman Charlie Hunter broke
a four-year mark previously held by Scott Harper. Senior Matt West’s first leg of the 400 free relay also shattered
a Davidson record. West’s 47.09 in his 100-yard leg was .15 seconds faster than the previous top Davidson time in
the 100 free.

Two women swimmers broke school records in the CAA Championships as well. Freshman Sara Laws destroyed the previous 200 back
mark by over two seconds, touching the wall in 2:02.36. Laws finished second in the event and also came within
.63 seconds of qualifying for the NCAA “B” Championships. According to Head Coach Jim Conlon, that was the closest a
Davidson woman has ever come to qualifying for the NCAA’s. Fellow freshman Joanie Gidas swam the 200 breast in 2:25.00,
breaking the previous school record by almost 1.5 seconds.

For the entire season, both teams combined to notch 58 top-10 performances in Davidson history. Last season, even with more
swimmers on both squads, Davidson could only muster 51 top-10 performances. “This was a great year.For personal improvement,” noted Conlon.
“Every guy on the team swam at least one personal best at CAA’s. Even with a limited number of women
swimming at CAA’s, I was impressed with the number of top-10 times we were able to record.” The waters may
be calm now, but soon the Wildcats will be back shooting for even more records to shatter.

Gibson sets record, earns conference honors
Junior speedster will run in front of home crowd this weekend

Press Release
Davidson S.I.D.

CHARLOTTE, N.C. — The 2001 outdoor track season opened for both the men’s and women’s teams at Davidson College as
they competed at the 49er Classic hosted by the Charlotte 49ers at Irwin Belk Track. The men’s team had three
top-10 finishes over the two-day event. Junior Dan Gibson led the way for the Wildcats as he picked up a
victory in the 800 meters (1:54.80) and finished fourth in the 1500 meters. His time of 3:53.38 in the 1500
established a new school record. Jimmy Swansbrough was the other Wildcat to notch a top-10 finish with a fifth-place finish
in the steeplechase. He finished the event in a time of 9:57.68.

Tuesday, Gibson was named the Southern Conference Men's Track and Field Athlete of the Week by a vote of the
conference track and field coaches. On the women’s side, the Wildcats had just one athlete with a top-10 finish. Senior
Smyth Bitter finished ninth in the 800 meters (2:18.46). She also finished 11th in the 400 (1:00.70).

The Wildcat track teams continue the 2001 outdoor season next weekend as they host the Belk Invitational at the Irwin
Belk Track at Richardson Stadium on Saturday, March 24. The Belk Invitational, now in its second year, is the only
home meet for Davidson during the 2001 outdoor season and will feature a full slate of track and field events.

Davidson Track & Field

What: Second Annual Belk Invitational track meet
When: Saturday morning, March 24

Blackwell, a native of Locust Grove, Va., Denison (mascot). The men once again successfully took the doubles point and went
on to win the match 6-1. On Sunday against Furman, the team had a much bigger challenge against one of
the Southern Conference’s top teams, Furman. Furman won all three doubles matches to take the doubles point, forcing the men
to win the singles matches to earn a victory. However, they could not pull out the wins and Furman went
on to win the match 6-1. The only win came from senior Chad Phillips (No. 4) who won his match
6-1 in the third set. Junior Chad Winbarger (No. 3) fell short in his match, losing his match 7-5 in
the third set.

Swimming & Diving names team captains
By Burcin Harpy - Sports Editor

Davidson’s swimming & diving teams have selected their team captains for the 2001-2002 season. Juniors Nick Blackwell and Steve Reece
were selected by their teammates to serve as co-captains of the men’s swimming & diving team, while the women’s team
members nominated juniors Kendra Berner and Beth Summerlin as its captains. As team leaders, the captains serve as mentors for
underclassmen and play an important role in facilitating communication among team members.

“As a captain, I want to be someone who my teammates can look up to. Someone they can come to
with any problem—whether it be something about swimming or something academic related,” said Blackwell, who has been swimming competitively since
age six. “I just want to give it my best in practice and at meets and just be a good
example to the underclassmen.” Blackwell swims the backstroke and the freestyle. Reece, a native of Kinston, N.C., swims the freestyle
and was voted Most Improved Male Swimmer following his Bluff, Ill., and swims the freestyle. Her co-captain Summerlin hails from
Chattanooga, Tenn., and swims the backstroke and the individual medley.
