_ Wednesday, November 14, 2001

English professor shares insight on Royal Shakespeare

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

For those few out there who haven’t heard the news, the Royal Shakespeare Company will be on campus between February
19 and March 2 of 2002. Heralded as the world’s foremost interpreters of the works of Shakespeare, the entire company
is making its only stop in the U.S. right here in Davidson.

To learn more about the Royal Shakespeare Company’s visit to Davidson, I was able to interview Dr. Cynthia Lewis. Dr.
Lewis is the head of Davidson’s English department, and an expert on Renaissance drama.

AP: What are some of your feelings about the Royal Shakespeare Company’s coming to Davidson?

CL: Well, I think it’s the most exciting thing that’s happened at Davidson in a while and will turn out
to be one of the most important events in [our] history.

AP: I understand that you were able to sit in on some rehearsals in London for The Merchant of Venice.
What was that like, and do you feel that this performance will be something new and different?

CL: Well, I guess I’m happy to say that I don’t think it’s going to be all that new and
different. Probably, I would be less content with it if it were really new and different (laughs). If it were,
it would be inclined to be gimmicky... I think it’s a production that’s respectful of the text, thoughtfully produced, thoughtfully
interpreted. I think that the production is very aware of recent commentary and thinking about the homoerotic relationship between the
two lead male characters. It hasn’t always been a feature of the production.

Dr. Lewis, an expert on Renaissance drama, recently visited the Royal Shakespeare Company in London.

AP: Since you have particular interest or specialty in the study of Shakespearean drama, what would you say makes the
Royal Shakespeare Company such a special acting troupe?

CL: They’re the best Shakespeare company in the world, so far as I know, and it has become that way
by virtue of long experience and long support. They did go through a very difficult financial period in the 70s
and the early 80s... ever since then, the Royal Shakespeare Company has learned to add business savvy to their artistry.
This is of course, reflective of the origins of Shakespearean production, because they were very smart business people in addition
to being very talented playwrights and actors.

AP: Next semester, you’ll be teaching a class “Performing Shakespeare.” What are some of the highlights of the class?

CL: I guess there are two main highlights of the class, one is the final performance, but the other is
the process toward that performance, which I think students really enjoy and learn a lot from. They study a work
of literature, words on a page, through acting those words as words on a script. It’s probably the most fruitful
way of studying a theatrical script. And especially a play as rich as a Shakespearean play. You can theorize about
a Shakespearean script all day and all night, but until you try to put what you’re theorizing on the stage,
you don’t really know what you’re talking about!

AP: How will the Royal Shakespeare Company’s presence on campus affect your teaching of the class?

CL: Right now, they’re scheduled to come.

Decline in abroad students may lead to housing crunch

RLO, from page 2

...on students going abroad in the spring until the end of this week. However, based on current information, Marsicano said
that most students who had planned to go abroad are still considering it, though many are changing their destinations to
“safer” world regions. Some others have opted for domestic programs.

There are currently 147 students abroad and 35 empty beds on campus, according to RLO. Sixteen students have confirmed their
travel plans for the spring, and 10 will leave Davidson following a winter graduation. This means that, as of now,
64 beds will be available for returning students next semester. In addition, there are 75 beds tentatively available from students
who may be going abroad, transferring or graduating, but have yet to give official notice. If those students leave campus,
there will be more than enough room to house all returning students this spring.

According to Carolyn Ortmayer, Program Coordinator for the Study Abroad Office, more students go abroad...In the fall than in the
spring; so a question of housing availability during the spring is not in fact unusual. This year’s situation is unique
due to worries surrounding national security, but at this point, it looks as if housing won’t be as troublesome an
issue as it first appeared. If the official numbers indicate that there will indeed be a housing crunch next spring,
RLO is ready with a specific course of action. First, more students will be granted permission to live off-campus. In
planning a second contingency, RLO took advice from the SGA survey. Results indicated that, given the options available, Davidson students’
first choice is to be placed in college-owned off-campus housing. The second-most popular choice on the survey was lounges, followed
by triple rooms (those large enough for three but outfitted with only two phone and Internet connections). The least popular
choice was hotel rooms on Exit 28. Marsicano used the survey to make sure her office understood students’ preferences on
housing locations. “I didn’t know if people would prefer to be in a hotel with a pool and cable or
a convenient location right in the heart of the Davidson community,” she said. The results indicate that students would prefer
to be put up in cramped or unusual living quarters rather than being moved to hotels away from campus.

and be with us three times. One three-hour session on voice and movement, another three-hour session on scene work, and
a final two-hour session on gags, meaning visual and verbal humor, and not very high-minded humor!

AP: Besides their performances of the play, what other sorts of programming will the Royal Shakespeare Company take part in
while at Davidson — for example, master classes — and who will get to go to them?

CL: They’re going to be going into a lot of classes. In most cases, those classes will be confined to
the enrollees, for obvious reasons, so as to keep those classes as intimate with the visitors as they are normally.
But there will be several public appearances of the company, along with a lot of feedback sessions after performances. There
will be workshops for area teachers who will come to campus... They will also be going into some high schools,
and I think will be doing some community outreach in Davidson. They’re going to be put to their paces!

AP: Why did the company pick Davidson as their only stop in the United States?

CL: I don’t really know. We had a connection through an alumnus, and because of [Dr. Vagt’s] leadership, that connection
was pursued and came to fruition... I like to think, that once they’ve been here, they’ll think “how could we
have wanted to go anywhere else?” (laughs) Our task is ahead of us. We need to make them as welcome
and comfortable as we can. We want them to have a wonderful time. We’d love for them to come back
if that would work out. We’ve got to be wonderful hosts.

AP: Do you have any final comments that you would like to make about the Royal Shakespeare Company’s coming to
Davidson?

CL: The value to Davidson, both the educational enrichment, but also the enhancement of our national profile, is a very
important factor. It will be morale-building for everyone here, it will be attractive to prospective students and their families. I
was working at one of the Discover Davidson weekends, and I had parents asking me about it. It singles us
out as a very special campus. I think all liberal arts colleges look alike, at least to some people, and
this is a catch for us.

RSC TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY

Tickets to The Merchant of Venice will be available on Monday, November 19 and will continue selling through the end
of the semester. Students and staff interested in a discounted price will need to purchase their tickets before they leave
for winter break.

ROYAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY

Tickets will be available at the Union Ticket Office on weekdays, November 19 through December 14, from 1:30 pm to
5:30 pm. (The ticket office will be closed for Thanksgiving break.) Contact Carrie Van Deest (cavandeest@davidson.edu) for more information, and
look for a more detailed letter in your mailbox.
