By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

Friends, family, and school officials gathered on Thursday to remember the life of Virginia Logan.

The service, held in the Atrium of the Visual Arts Center, offered the College community an opportunity to remember Logan, whose funeral was held on Oct. 11 near her family’s home in Charlottesville, Va.

With the afternoon sun streaking through the ceiling windows, College chaplain Rob Spach spoke to an audience of about 50 that included students, friends, and Logan’s parents.

He read a Bible passage from Ecclesiastes 3:6, which begins, “For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven.”

He also shared a journal entry written by Logan’s older brother, Brett. A moment of silence and closing prayer concluded the half-hour service, and then the audience went upstairs to a gallery to view pieces of Logan’s artwork.

“Virginia was a person whose creative life energy found its expression through her artwork,” said Spach.

Investigation continues

Logan, 20, was found unconscious around 5:45 a.m. on Oct. 6 in her apartment at Davidson Landing, located across Interstate 77 from the school. She was taken to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center, where she was pronounced dead.

Police officials are awaiting the results of a toxicology report to determine the next step in their investigation.

Memorial service held for Logan; police await report

Davidson Police Chief John Kearin said he hopes to receive the report from the medical examiner’s office in Chapel Hill in the next two to three weeks.

In an Oct. 10 article in The Charlotte Observer, Kearin said alcohol was found in Logan’s system and that it was unlikely she died of natural causes.

College president Bobby Vagt said Sunday he is “disappointed” that Kearin didn’t wait for an official report to be completed before making those statements, which Vagt said have “no basis in fact.”

Vagt said he called Town Manager Leamon Brice to voice his dissatisfaction.

Brice could not be reached for comment.

Kearin on Monday said he followed his normal procedure, which is to convey confirmed information to the media.

Blood tests conducted upon Logan’s arrival at the hospital confirmed the presence of alcohol, he said.

“I talk to the media almost every day,” he said. “There are protocols to follow. We had confirmed information prior to making that statement. We wouldn’t make any statements that we couldn’t verify.”

“It was our intention to work as closely as we could with the College. It was not our intention to have animosity.”

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S

Davidson Undergraduate Students can earn 16 or more course credits.

Earth Systems Science and Astronomy programs are offered for Science and Non-science majors at Columbia University Biosphere 2 campus near Tucson, Arizona.

Semester programs:

Contact Michael Dorcas, Department of Biology at Davidson: 894-2727 or midorcas@davidson.edu. You may also visit Biosphere 2 at www.bio2.edu/education or (800) 992-4603.

FIELD TRIPS

Wednesday, October 24, 2001

HIRING DELIVERY DRIVERS!

Jason's Deli is now hiring for our new location in Huntersville.

Great $$ • AM & PM schedules

Must be at least 18 years old with a valid driver's license, proof of insurance, and own vehicle.

Apply at 16639 Birkdale Commons (Take I-77 to exit 25, 1 mile west.)