‘Terrorism hits home for campus; service held Tuesday night

Students, from page 1

concrete. It was like snow. A hot cloud of dust and dirt carried office papers from the Trade Center across
the river. There were no cries, just stares. It felt like a nuclear holocaust.”

Davidson immediately lowered the flags outside of Chambers, and college president Bobby Vagt met with the Principal Executive Staff to
determine how best to deal with the crisis. Tom Shandley, Dean of Students, remarked, “If ever there was a time
for us to come together as a community, it is now. I would hope we all rise above this.”

The attack against America, the worst since and worse than Pearl Harbor, is devastating to a generation largely shaded from
national tragedy. “Terrorist acts are aimed at destroying the fabric of a country and a community,” explained Shandley. “It is
so important for all members of this community to react in a way that does not let that happen.”

The attack on the Pentagon shook Hannah Brown ’02. Her father works in Washington, DC, at the Administrative Offices of
US Courts in the new Judicial Building. Said Brown, “I’m from Fairfax (Va.), where most families are military or government.
My dad used to work in the Pentagon, so it kind of brings it home.” As the capital locked down,
closing everything from executive offices to strip malls, Brown’s father was ordered to his building’s basement before being sent home.

As their shock wore off, Davidson students looked to get involved in the relief effort. Students on the Akers community
service theme hall are taking donations of blankets, baby food, towels, sheets, toiletries, and clothing in conjunction with the Mecklenburg
County Harris Teeter stores. More pressing is the need for blood, and Kevin Epps ’03 helped organize a Davidson response,
driving the Vamonos Van to and from a Mooresville blood drive Wednesday. “I just think that, even if you’re not
directly linked to someone who was hurt or killed, the entire Davidson student body, staff, and faculty should make an
effort to help in this time of tragedy,” said Epps. Students interested in donating blood can contact Rosie Molinary in
the Community Service Office. People are advised to contact the Red Cross before going to donate blood.

More than 400 students packed three levels of the Alvarez College Union on Tuesday night for a campus-wide gathering that
was part vigil, part information session, and part interaction. Vagt opened the event by asking students to come together and
resist urges to discriminate against ethnic or religious groups. Chaplain Rob Spach led a moment of silence followed by prayer.
Political science professor Ken Menkhaus took to the stage next to speak about the political context of the attack. “I
suspect for your generation, today is going to be that day where you always remember where you were standing,” he
said, comparing the magnitude of the event to the assassination of John F. Kennedy in 1963 or the moon landing
in 1969. “Your challenge is the challenge of terrorism and transnational threats,” he said. “Terrorism is a mixture of violence
and theatre. It’s designed to produce in you a feeling of vulnerability and unease.”

Religion professor Bill Mahoney told students, “Return to your heart. This calls for a time of great integrity, honesty, dignity.
This is where the heart lies.” Perhaps political science professor Susan Roberts summed up the evening best. “This building will
not be formally dedicated this week,” she said. “But tonight we come together and dedicate this union to peace.”

The following is the text of a speech delivered by President Bobby Vagt at Tuesday night’s gathering in the Alvarez
College Union following terrorist attacks inNew York City and Washington, DC. The events of this day bring each of us
here... each of us with his or her own reaction, fear, disgust, confusion, sympathy. Each of us brought here by
events, the scope of which escapes our comprehension, the meaning of which - the who, the why - lie far
beyond our understanding... events which will affect each of us in this room in terms of concern, even suspicion around
those commonplace activities which for so long we have been allowed to take for granted... events which will affect each
of us in this room, as names and relationships become known over the next number of days... events which will,
if human history is any predictor, give rise to a series of responses which will themselves result in destruction and
in this very pain which we feel now - and I confess to you that there have been times over
the course of this day that I responded favorably to the notion of swift and sure retaliation - but that
is, of course, a cycle to which there is no simple conclusion. So where is the hope? The hope lies
in the fact that each of us is here, but, more importantly, that all of us are here together. Our
only hope - and it is not for understanding, but for the strength to get through this and the determination
to change and move beyond what gave rise to it - this hope lies in the ‘No matter what... we
are joined in this’ connection that we have with one another. Our family here... our family that has passed through
this place and has scattered to the four winds, including New York, and Washington... our family that reaches to the
ones you hold dear. So as you reach out and touch that person beside you - the person you know
or the person you don’t know - perhaps more important is the one you don’t - you confirm that the
only way through this immediate hurt and the only path to a world which behaves as both logic and human
kindness dictate it should, is one taken together. Determined. Absolutely committed. Pollyanna? Rose-colored glasses? Perhaps... but it seems to me
the only way out of this madness. We are here tonight because of an emotional, moral, spiritual need to be
together - no matter what your faith - or lack thereof - no matter what your background or heritage, we
are joined in this. I ask one thing - a pledge we might make to one another, and it is
this: as events unfold in the coming days or weeks or months and responsibility for today’s horrors is assigned, we
will not generalize with respect to religion, or geography or ethnicity. This is not a pledge that we have followed
very faithfully as a nation; but, if we allow ourselves to permit individual responsibility for this tragedy to be spread
across any single slice of humanity, then they, whoever they are, will have succeeded in reducing our humanity - yours
and mine - to a pile of rubble, such as lies at the south end of Manhattan Island this night.
Please make this pledge.

The Right Look. The Right Price. Guaranteed Satisfaction. Appointments not necessary. Open 7 days a week with convenient weekend hours.
Guaranteed Style. Visit our website at www.greatclips.com.

GOOD ONLY AT:
Turnberry Place Shopping Center
I-77, Exit 28, Cornelius
-next to Sushi at the Lake-
(704) 987-0607

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY
Not valid with other offers. Limit one coupon per customer. Good only at $8.95
OFFER EXPIRES 9/30/02
