By Linny BALDWIN, News Editor

Educational debate, always a hot topic among politicians and parents, can become especially heated when the educational topic in question is sex. Public opinion on what belongs in the classroom runs the spectrum, from abstinence-only to a full program including abortion, homosexuality, and STDs. American public schools, however, are currently leaning towards the former. Thirty-eight states mandate abstinence-only education, including North Carolina. Many members of the Reproductive Rights Alliance of Davidson feel that isn’t enough — and they’ve started a new group to fill in the gaps.

The new Reproductive Health Education Team (RHET) is a group within RRAD chaired by RRAD member Melissa Breedlove ’04. RHET’s mission statement reads as follows: “The Reproductive Health Education Team is a committee within the Reproductive Rights Alliance of Davidson (RRAD). We provide training to our members so that they may provide young men and women (from pre-teens to young adults) with information about reproductive health. We believe that this information will enable young adults everywhere to make responsible, healthy decisions.”

The group’s ultimate goal is to take its members off-campus as early as next semester to YMCAs, private schools, and other youth-oriented organizations. Public schools will likely be off-limits due to North Carolina’s abstinence-only laws, but members hope that this may make other, less restrictive groups even more enthusiastic about RHET’s services.

RHET kicked off its training programs last Wednesday at 9 pm with an introductory lecture designed to explain the group and its goals. The meeting was conducted by Breedlove and RRAD president Kristine Harrington ’03, and was well-attended by a committed, enthusiastic group of female Davidson students, mostly RRAD members. A member of the Pro-Choice Coalition of Charlotte was also in attendance and praised the group’s efforts to educate young people.

“We are so excited about the formation of this committee and the great turnout we had at our first session!” Harrington enthused. A few members, however, were disappointed in the minimal — well, nonexistent — male turnout. “I definitely think that we’re going to want guys as well as girls to make this program really successful when we go off-campus,” said one.

For those who are interested in the training but unsure about taking on the responsibility for educating teenagers, Harrington emphasized that RHET attendees need not commit themselves to next semester’s planned activities. “RRAD’s intent in forming this sexuality education committee was to equip our members with important knowledge, whether or not they decide to become educators next semester.”

The first session covered mostly introductory ground. Breedlove and Harrington started off the meeting with some information about the group’s foundation and goals. They then addressed what they felt are common misconceptions about sex ed and teenagers — including the idea that sex ed makes teens more likely to have sex. In fact, RHET argued, the opposite is true. Through comprehensive sex ed, RHET believes teens will be able to make informed decisions (including abstinence) they won’t regret later on. Breedlove and Harrington came armed with both American and international statistics on teenage sexuality, pregnancy, and STDs to justify the group’s mission. Among the most striking: According to the Journal of Adolescent Health,More than 30% Giant Stuffed Potatoes Big Deli Style Sandwiches New Orleans Style Muffalettas Huge Fresh Salad Bar Box Lunches 99¢ Kids Menu Free Ice Cream And Much More Catering For Any Occasion

Deb ley Tex! THE DELI RESTAURANT SINCE 1976

Of sexually experienced females and about 40% of sexually experienced males agreed with the statement, “When putting on a condom, it is important to have it fit tightly, leaving no space at the tip.” (Georgia Ringle would be horrified!) Said Breedlove, “Unfortunately, a lot of teenagers are clueless about sex ... even after they become sexually active.”

Additionally, a 1999 study indicates that in countries such as France and the Netherlands, where sex ed is far from abstinence-only, the teenage birth rate, abortion rate, and number of AIDS cases are far lower than in the US. Through programs like theirs, Breedlove and Harrington argued, this trend could be countered.

Philip Osborne ‘04, treasurer of the newly-chartered Davidson Students for Life, disagreed. “Their promotion of these materials both off- and on-campus necessarily promotes promiscuous behavior, which is one of the leading causes of abortions,” he argued. Both he and Paul Godfrey ’04, DSL’s president, felt that abstinence-only education was a better option for teenagers. However, Rachel McCord ‘04, DSL’s vice-president, emphasized that, “Just as there are many different views of this topic among the general population, there are many diverse opinions among pro-life individuals.”

McCord continued, “I believe that it is important to inform youth about STDs and the risks of unwanted pregnancies while presenting abstinence as a choice and informing them that there are individuals who abstain until marriage. If this type of education is effective, it can actually reduce the need for abortion, and is thus in-line with the cause of many pro-life individuals.”

“I am sure that RHET will provide a useful service to the community by presenting the risks of STDs and unwanted pregnancy to these youth while presenting abstinence as a viable option.” Godfrey was slightly more wary, saying, “I think RHET is misleading people into thinking that sexual activity comes with few consequences... Groups that advocate abortion tend to emphasize ‘safe sex’ and downplay abstinence.”

Despite their different approaches, RHET members agree that it’s important to prevent teens from making casual decisions about sex. “I am so excited about RHET because I feel that having a candid, peer-based source of comprehensive sexuality education could do wonders for teenagers, whether they are sexually active or not, in understanding reproductive health,” explained Breedlove. “We believe that teens and young adults should be informed fully about their reproductive health options, so that they can make responsible and healthy decisions,” Harrington concluded.

RHET’s next session will take place on Wednesday, October 3. Dr. Verna Case will be presenting a lecture on anatomy and physiology. Interested students should contact Breedlove at mebreedlove@davidson.edu.

Jason's Deli Opening October 8, 2001 16639 Birkdale Commons Huntersville 704-895-2505 * 704-895-2504 FAX www.jasonsdeli.com