Wednesday, April 4, 2001

Spy Kids features great performances, weak plot

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Spy Kids is a movie for anyone who wants revenge on Teri Hatcher for doing those annoying Radio Shack commercials,
for anyone who loves Antonio Banderas, for anyone who hates Antonio Banderas, for anyone who has warts, for anyone who
is Latino, for anyone who likes Cheech and Chong or Bond movies, for anyone who enjoyed movies like Willy Wonka
and the Chocolate Factory, The Sandlot, and The Goonies, and for anyone who likes saying and/or hearing the word “poop”
(yes, that means you, Ian Nelson).

I can’t say I had the inclination to see a movie called Spy Kids. It took my reading numerous, glowing
reviews before I went out and saw it. Turns out it’s the best movie I’ve seen in a few months.

Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino star as Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez, two spies who have given up their life of
espionage for parenthood. Their daughter Carmen (Alexa Vega) has been skipping school and their son Juni (Daryl Sabara) gets picked
on and has no friends. It seems all is normal in the Cortez household, except for its Seussian architecture.

Soon, however, the two are on a mission once again, helping to recover a number of missing agents. Uncle Felix
(Cheech Marin) comes to watch the kids while they’re gone. (Cheech as a babysitter? Hmmmm...)

Once inside their car-plane-boat mobile, Gregorio and Ingrid are intercepted by Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming) and his henchmen. It seems
Floop, who uses a children’s television show as his smokescreen, is responsible for the missing henchmen: he is trying to
create and sell an army of killing machines using spies. Unfortunately, his experiment has gone awry, and Floop’s minion Minion
(Tony Shalhoub) comes up with the idea to make deadly robots that look like celebrities’ children, hence Spy Kids.

Back at the Cortez home, Uncle Felix and Carmen and Juni are attacked by a group of men in black.
Carmen and Juni, still unaware of their parents’ true identities, are directed to safety by Uncle Felix, who himself is
not so lucky. And so, the children discover the truth about their parents and set out to rescue them.

Yes, the plot is tired, clichéd, and idiotic.

Davidson students and faculty participated in a unique exercise in socially critical theatre on Friday, March 30. “The DisAbility Project:
Exploring Disability Issues Through Theatre” premiered on the stage of the 900 Room. Visiting artist in residence Joan Lipkin and
professors Ann Fox and Sharon Green directed the performance. Among other things, the show explored the ways people perceive, react
to, and interact with individuals with different disabilities.

But like I always say, stories really don’t matter all that much. Spy Kids is filled to the brim with
invention after invention, with clever joke after clever joke, with shameless pun after shameless pun. For example, some of Floop’s
workers are literally all thumbs. And at one point the children read a book entitled How to be a Spy
written by Anonymous.

But beyond its invention, Spy Kids manages to house what I would dare say are some brilliant performances. The film
embraces Banderas as much as it makes fun of him. And Banderas plays along, striking just the right note for
self-parody. And Carla Gugino manages to come off as genuinely sweet and caring, not easy in a film that is
so flamboyant.

And speaking of flamboyant, Alan Cumming, a young actor with many notable credits to his name, steals the show here,
once again. He was the funniest thing in Eyes Wide Shut, and his work in last year’s Titus was certainly
the most enjoyable part of that already wonderful movie. I think, though, that the highlight of his career comes in
Spy Kids when he yells, “I can’t think straight enough!” It’s that subtle, cynical edge combined with a certain truthfulness
amidst the chaos of his films that makes Alan Cumming and his characters so memorable.

No doubt, many adults — or I guess I should say college students — won’t be able to dismount their
high horses and go see Spy Kids. I guess that’s understandable. Spy Kids is, after all, a children’s movie at
its heart. But in a place where everyone seems to be stressed out, maybe a children’s movie and a dose
of stupidity is what we need most.

And I’m not talking about a dose of something like See Spot Run. If you can’t find a copy of
Half Baked or if you have time to drive to Exit 28, spend the $3.50 and see Spy Kids.

Grade: A-
