Farewell and thanks after a great year

Twenty-four issues ago we began our tenure as Editors-in-Chief. We were but two former Staff Writers with no previous editorial experience. We had no clue how to use the necessary software, we had nothing remotely resembling a staff, and we decided on the second week of school as the date for the first issue. Now that seems like a long time ago, and we feel that we have come a long way in understanding the small things about how to run The Davidsonian. The process is still not easy, but after forgetting page 8, missing the deadline, and having a virus wreck an entire issue, there is little that takes us by surprise (except for you, Garf—you never cease to amaze us). Our tour of duty has been trying at times, but overall it has been incredibly rewarding.

The best thing about our work with the newspaper is that it has shown us what a special place Davidson College is. The students here are remarkable in their achievements, enthusiasm, and kindness. The faculty is similarly outstanding in their commitment to the education of the students as people as well as scholars. The staff consists of some of the most hard-working and helpful people you will ever encounter. Alumni and parents are such a valuable resource for the institution, providing a boost to the resources of the college through generous donations and by adding to the prestige of Davidson through their actions in the outside world. Finally, the Davidson community is a special place that helps the school thrive.

Before we leave, we would like to extend our sincere thanks to several people without whom we could not have survived this year. We owe a great debt to Alison Kalett and Mike Anderson who provided us with leadership as writers and who gave us the opportunity to serve as editors. Thanks are in order as well to Peter Clark and David Johnston who served as business and advertising managers for most of the year. Their experience and hard work were invaluable. Special thanks go to our entire corps of able, dedicated, and colorful section editors from both semesters—Erin “Creative nickname yet to be determined” Berry, photography; Tim “Schubadubluaduah—Timmay” Cook, News and layout; Thomas “Word” Cullen, Arts & Living; Jackie “Have you seen Will?” Davidson, Sports; Matt “Listen, listen” Garfield, Sports and News; Martha “Giggles” Hunt, Arts & Living; Burgin “The Boss” Hardin, Sports; Anna “The Punctuator” Kvanvig, copy editor; Jessica “The Professional” Mering, News; Mara “Sweetness” Mordini, Perspectives; Amy “Yo Mama” Poe, Perspectives; Will “That’s what she said” Roberson, Sports/resident heckler; Erica “Spikes” Schwartz, Perspectives; JT “I’m here—love me for who I am, not for what I represent” Tolentino, News/resident nuisance; and Matt “Redeye” Whited, photography. Thanks to Rick Bold and Jeff Larrimore for their help with advertising and to Renee Miller and Maggie Kozicharow for their work in circulation. We also thank the entire circulation staff for their often invisible, always appreciated work. Our gratitude and admiration go out to Mr. Bill Giduz and the entire staff of College Communications for their constant encouragement and cooperation. Thanks finally to all of our writers and contributors. Without your talent and dedication, The Davidsonian would not run week after week.

As we finish this year, we would like to introduce the incoming staff for the next. Burgin Hardin has graciously accepted the position of Editor-in-Chief. A long-time member of the staff, a capable writer, and a gifted leader, he will certainly fill this role well. Tim Cook and Matt Garfield will move from News and Sports to serve as Managing Editors. They have both proven their abilities this year and are welcome additions to the editorial staff.

To all of our readers, thank you for your interest, support, and comments throughout the year. Best of luck on finals, and enjoy the summer.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors-in-Chief

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson

BUSINESS MANAGERS
Peter Clark
David Johnston

COPY EDITOR
Anna Kvanvig

NEWS EDITORS
Tim Cook
Jessica Mering

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Peter Clark
David Johnston

SPORTS EDITORS
Matt Garfield
Burgin Hardin

ARTS & LIVING EDITORS
Martha Hunt
Mara Mordini

PERSPECTIVES EDITOR
Amy Poe

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITORS
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

CIRCULATION MANAGER
Maggie Kozicharow

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

The first 100 days of King George I

By JOSH CRAFT AND TOM ANSTROM
Columnists

“His genes may belong to the Bushes, but his heart is pure Reagan.” — Ken Duberstein, former chief of staff to Ronald Reagan. [U.S. News & World Report, 4/9/01]

After nearly having the election ripped from his fingers by a bunch of pesky voters in Florida, our illustrious President George W. Bush took anointed position as “head of state” in January. Starting from a stunning and powerful inaugural address, Bush has started the process of pulling the United States from the clutches of Washington insiders, save for a few lesser-known cabinet members, like Colin Powell, Donald Rumsfeld, John Ashcroft, and our esteemed “second in command” Dick Cheney. The President has put the nation on the fast track back to greatness with his uncompromising commitment to moral rectitude, environmental protection, fighting to end economic inequality, keeping good relations with China and Russia, and good governance through bipartisanship. We have not had such a bright shining star since the early days of the “Great Communicator.”Only hope that the Democrats won’t be able to stifle President Bush’s overwhelming mandate before he can really start to turn the nation around. In celebration of these glorious first hundred days of prosperity and peace, we decided to include some of the greatest moments of Bush’s fledgling presidency. And who better to tell us the story than the man behind it all.

“Natural gas is hemispheric. I like to call it hemispheric in nature because it is a product that we can find in our neighborhoods.” - Austin, Texas, Dec. 20, 2000, on importing oil from Mexico.

“I do remain confident in Linda. She’ll make a fine labor secretary. From what I’ve read in the press accounts, she’s perfectly qualified.” - Austin, Texas, Jan. 8, 2001, before the tragic withdrawal of Linda Chavez from consideration for Secretary of Labor.

“We’re concerned about AIDS inside our White House - make no mistake about it.” - Washington, D.C., Feb. 7, 2001, on his firm commitment to combating the AIDS epidemic here and abroad.

“Those of us who spent time in the agricultural sector and in the heartland, we understand how unfair the death penalty is.” - Omaha, Neb., Feb. 28, 2001, on his close connection to our nation’s farmers and the devastating effects of the death tax upon them.

“I suspect that had my dad not been president, he’d be asking the same questions: How’d your meeting go with so-and-so? ... How did you feel when you stood up in front of the people for the State of the Union Address - state of the budget address, whatever you call it.” - Interview with the Washington Post, March 9, 2001, on his eloquent address, laying out his budget plans for our great nation.

“It would be helpful if we opened up ANWR (Arctic National Wildlife Refuge). I think it’s a mistake not to. And I would urge you all to travel up there and take a look at it, and you can make the determination as to how beautiful that country is.” - Press conference, Washington, D.C., March 29, 2001, on the urgent need to drill oil in Alaska.

“It’s very important for folks to understand that when there’s more trade, there’s more commerce.” - Quebec City, Canada, April 21, 2001, rebuking the Birkenstock Brigade for their sore misunderstanding of the Free Trade Area for the Americas.

We can all rest easy that a man with such intelligence, integrity, and dedication is on the job from 9 to 5 (with a four-hour lunch break).

How does the cost of living stack up at Davidson?

I have some questions for RLO regarding the cost of housing here on Davidson’s campus. As a graduating senior who has lived on campus all 4 years, I am looking at the local housing market. There are some frightening realities that have set in as I examined the numbers. I thought that I might share them for the enjoyment of others.

For simplicity, all of the following numbers are based on 12 months occupancy. This means that these numbers are at the low end of costs to RLO because a significant portion of the campus is rented out during the summer to other programs. Just keep this in mind.

I paid $4,200 to live in West dormitory last year, or $350 a month. As my share of the suite is about 160 square feet, this works out to $26.25 per square foot per year. So, West is $1400 a month for about 640 square feet for 12 months.

With these numbers in mind, let us look at the new Townhome I will be living in next year in Cornelius. The cost per month (including taxes, interest lost on deposit capital, exterior maintenance, insurance, utilities, and tax savings) works out under $1000 per month. This is $1000 a month for 1380 square feet, or $8.70 per square foot per year, for 12 real months. This makes RLO 3 times as expensive as living in Cornelius.

Another way to look at this is that, for the same price as living in West, 4 people could get a kitchen, fireplace, twice the number of bathrooms and floor space, a washer and dryer, not be kicked out for Christmas or summer, furniture, and still have enough money left over each month for a kegger every weekend.

RLO of course has some extra expenses involved in the upkeep of West, such as paying someone to vacuum the hall and remove trash from the trash room (note that this does not include cleaning the bathrooms) and “paying” our RA through charging half rent. But these expenses have to be made up in some part by summer rent and in no way explain the huge increase in expense.

The reason this is important is that not everyone can afford the extra expense of living in such expensive housing. RLO is here to provide a service to students, not to act like a monopoly operation maximizing its profit. I’m sure that this extra money must be put towards some good and useful purpose, but then our housing costs become something other than just housing. I just want to know where all the money is going, because I don’t see it in the value of our housing.

I would have liked to have addressed some of these questions to RLO, but I was unable to receive comments from RLO because I was denied an appointment with Dean Holmes by the receptionist. Oh well.

— Food for thought, Drew J. Crawford ‘01