By Brooke WEIHE Special Contributor

It’s Spring semester again; time for clean slates in the classrooms, people returning from being abroad, and new students in
leadership positions across campus. SGA held their elections last week, the Union Board is appointing new chairs this week, and
Patterson Court Council is full of new, fresh faces and ideas.

There aren’t just new house presidents and representatives, though. The executive board of PCC was elected at the end of
last semester and new positions have been created to improve the Court’s relationships with the rest of the student body,
the faculty, and the administration.

First and foremost, there is a new president at the helm. Matt Arbuckle, a Junior in SAE, is taking over
the position of PCC president from Chad Phillips and has gone full speed ahead with his numerous ambitious ideas for
the future of Patterson Court. “As PCC president I hope to facilitate a working relationship between the administration and the
students so that we can create an environment which is not only fun but safe as well. During my tenure
as president, the things that I want to emphasize are individual responsibility of members of Patterson Court, building community between
organizations, and making sure that people see a good return on their financial investment from being a member of a
Patterson Court organization. In cooperation with SGA, we are hoping to make the Vamanos van a reliable source of transportation
for Davidson students by providing the necessary manpower to make it so.”

Arbuckle’s right-hand man on PCC, the Chancellor, is North Moore, a Sophomore in Kappa Sigma. He faces the daunting task
of making sure all the houses are up to par with standards and he is responsible for the often criticized
alcohol policy. He gave the following statement regarding his ambitions as Chancellor: “I am looking forward to working with the
newly appointed Standards Committee and providing PCC with strong leadership for the implementation of the Standards Program. I am hopeful
that it will develop more fully over the coming term. I also hope to analyze, and possibly revise, both the
alcohol and risk management policies of Davidson College. With the help of a committee, some of the congestion and misconceptions
of our policies can be remedied.”

Mary Kat White is taking on the challenge of serving as Sergeant at Arms for PCC. In this position, she
will preside over the Judicial Board. Mary Kat is a member of the class of 2002 and also a member
of Connor House. As Sergeant at Arms, she is looking into ways to have fewer trials, promoting self-policing for houses
and making sure all organizations on the court are well aware of the rules, and possibly creating a new position
in each house of a J-Board representative.

The former treasurer of CoHo, Grant Lovellette, is moving up to become the treasurer for PCC. He is also the
first representative from CoHo to serve on the executive board. After playing an integral role in successfully building up the
co-ed eating house, he seemed a perfect choice to become the PCC treasurer, which could always use help making and
saving money.

Kai Wagenheim and Shaw Hipsher, sophomores from Connor and Rusk respectively, are the new PCC service chairs. They face the
task of finding a new Patterson Court-wide service project for this year, since the traditional Relay for Life will be
taking place after graduation this year.and Kai are looking forward to the new challenge, saying, “We have a court-wide project
in the works involving a trash pick-up with an environmental-community theme, and we are going to work with the houses
that would like to adopt an organization or project and help them come up with cool and fun ways to
get and keep their house involved with it.”

The two new PCC executive board positions are those of a scholarship chair and a social chair. These will be
filled by Joanna Parker, a junior from Warner Hall, and Evan McCormick, a junior in Kappa Sigma. The scholarship position
will serve as a way of “bringing a greater sense of academic awareness to the court,” as Joanna puts it.
She has already conceived the idea of a Study Hour session on the court, the first one to take place
February 27th at Rusk, and would like to implement PCC tutoring.

Evan’s position as social chair was brought in for numerous reasons, one of the more prominent being improving communication between
Patterson Court and the Union. Evan had this to say about his thoughts and goals for his role on PCC:
“As a new position of the PCC, I am excited to add an additional resource to the PCC and the
Davidson community alike. As the Social Chair, my main goal is to bridge the gap between the PCC and the
Union Board by developing a better relationship that will promote unity and partnership amongst both groups. The PCC and the
Union Board serve important roles on this campus, therefore a stronger relationship can only result in a better social atmosphere
around campus.” He is also looking into a possible review of the alcohol policy and assisting interaction between the houses
on the court.

Patterson Court as a whole is starting out the year on a high note. The average GPA for Patterson Court
members was 3.1339, slightly higher than that of independents, 3.050. Every house but one achieved an average GPA of over
3.0. The new PCC website is up and running (http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/residencelife/PattersonCourtWeb/index.htm), and the new Spring semester PCC stickers that students require
for admission to all court parties are back on sale in the Outpost. The new house presidents are all elected
and excited for the coming year.

Stephanie René Barfield
William B. Cannon
Melissa Ann Chiprich
Christina A. Conner
Abigail D. Johnson-Reid

Psi Chi, the National Honor Society in Psychology, is proud to announce that the Davidson College Chapter of Psi Chi
inducted 10 new members into the honor society on Tuesday, February 20, 2001. Psi Chi was founded in 1929 for
the purposes of encouraging, stimulating, and maintaining excellence in scholarship, and advancing the science of psychology. Membership is awarded to
graduate and undergraduate men and women who are making the study of psychology one of their major interests and who
meet the qualifications. Psi Chi is a member of the Association of College Honor Societies and is an affiliate of
the American Psychological Association (APA) and the American Psychological Society (APS). Psi Chi has grown over the past 70 years
into one of the largest and most successful honor societies in the world with over 930 chapters located at college
and university campuses throughout the U.S. Davidson’s 2001 inductees are:

Anna J. Kvanvig
Kristina Renee Miller
Rebecca L. Rich
Melanie J. Wadkins
Ida Catherine Wainschel

100% Natural Spring Water is a great thirst quencher!
