THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 31, 2001

Milton’s work blends tradition and innovation

By CHRISTINA COOKE
Staff Writer

To look at a Peter Milton print is to explore a dream-like world where phantoms emerge from the walls of living rooms, wolves lurk about hotel lobbies, and musicians perform in nightclubs while standing knee-deep in water. The VAC’s Van Every and Edward M. Smith Gallery will display thirty of Milton’s etchings and engravings from January 22 to March 2.

“In the context of the printmaking world, Milton is by far one of the top artists,” said Gallery Director Brad Thomas. In the 1970s, the ArtNews magazine declared his signature print, “Daylilies,” which pictures a man absorbed in contemplation, one of the top ten prints of the decade.

After graduating from the Yale University School of Art and Architecture in 1954, Milton experimented with paint and sculpture for a few years. But when tests diagnosed him with red-green colorblindness in 1962, Milton declared, “Black and white prints from now on!”

Milton blends the traditional techniques of etching and engraving with contemporary light-sensitive processes to create a variety of textures. He spends about a year working on each print, first etching a copper sheet to capture a sense of the space and then engraving the sheet to add the refined details. When the piece satisfies Milton, he inks the plate and runs it through the press with paper to create 200 to 250 prints.

Professor Shaw Smith admires the sense of age that this combination of techniques produces. “It’s got a feeling of historicism because of the medium used,” he explained. “It’s an aged memory, not some kind of flashed image.”

Milton finds inspiration from a wide variety of sources, including music, literature, theatre, opera, dance, film photography, and the paintings of master printmakers like Rembrandt and Brueghel the Elder.

He packs each print with references to twentieth-century culture, borrowing settings, figures, and gestures from the works of notable artists. Often, he portrays the artists themselves.

“I’m amazed at his depth of reference,” confessed Thomas. “It would require pages and pages of analysis to deconstruct his etchings and engravings. They’re very dense, but incredibly elegant.”

Milton himself acknowledges the intricacy of the allusions in his 1998 print “Points of Departure III: Twentieth Century Limited.” “It’s so complex I still need a numbered key to enumerate the references,” he admitted.

Erin Berry

Coming next week ...

A review of The Edward M. Smith Gallery’s "Scenes of Cyprus," a collection of prints derived from antique lantern slides found at a flea market by associate professor of classics Michael Toumazou.

In the print, two trains have crashed under the arched ceilings of the historic Penn Station. According to Milton’s website, the crash represents the apocalypse of modern art. From the rubble flee dozens of twentieth-century artists with their works, including Picasso with “Guernica” and Warhol with the “Marilyn Monroe Diptych.”

Milton’s works engage the viewer’s imagination at the same time they activate his mind.

In “Points of Departure I: Mary’s Turn,” American painter Mary Cassatt leans over a pool table to take a shot while the balls float like bubbles off of the table and through the parlor. “Points of Departure II: Nijinsky Variations” presents a multitude of figures inside a grandiose opera house. Some pierce the viewer with their stares, others sit complacently in chairs as phantoms emerge from behind them, and still others leap through the air in a dance.

“Peter gives us strange ‘shots’ of other worlds,” critic John Fowles described. “They are not, except in their outer skin, realistic ones; but far more mysterious and often poetic fantasies. I have always thought of them rather less as prints than as novels. His major works all leave an enticing flume of questions floating like smoke in their atmospheres.”

When viewing Milton’s collection, Professor Herb Jackson advises the viewer to linger with each print. Milton “takes a year or so to develop an image,” he said, “so the viewer must be prepared for an investment of time to explore the new world that he presents.”