CD release party satisfies wide variety:

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor in Chief

Smoke, lights, and sonic artistry accented the release party for Encomiast’s new CD Winter’s End. Long Time Coming and DJ
Zealot joined Ross Hagen’s solo performance for the free concert last Saturday at 10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

The Student Performers Committee, one of the newest additions to the Union Board, sponsored and organized the event.

Encomiast is made up of current and former Davidson students. Ross Hagen ’01 is the only member presently on campus.
Nick Paul, Samantha Balsam, and he comprise the ensemble, which specializes in its own unique brand of ambient music.

Hagen indicated that this project, as well as its recent release, was not “an end in itself.” He hopes to
use this as a way to gain exposure and to turn heads and ears. “We’ve gotten some good responses on
this material,” he added.

Hagen noted that he thought the release party “went over really well.” He particularly praised the 900 Room as a
uniquely suited venue to that sort of function. “There were places for people to dance, but there were also places
for people to chill if they wanted to while they looked at the visuals,” he remarked.

Though Encomiast took center stage, Long Time Coming and DJ Zealot delivered enjoyable performances as well. Though vastly different in
style, Hagen thought that the mixture “gave everyone a little bit of everything.”

Taylex Herbert ‘01 and Chas Willimon ’02 of Long Time Coming introduced themselves as the “token acoustic band” of the
evening. They opened the show with a short set of original material, accompanying themselves on guitar. The pair is usually
joined by Chris Breitenberg ‘03 and Noel Zimmerman ’04, who were absent for this performance.

Hagen followed with a selection of songs drawn from the CD. He added numerous beats, sound effects, and voice-overs from
his station on stage.

In addition to the music, Christopher Fryar ‘02 played a tape of visual images he had compiled. The audience listened
to the audial ebb and flow while watching a frenetic, often disturbing sequence of television and movie clips projected on
the wall of the 900 Room. The overall effect was entrancing.

Finally, Garrett Taylor ‘04, calling himself DJ Zealot, finished the night with a long, hard set of techno. He kept
the crowd on its feet for the rest of the show with his furious but sometimes whimsical choice of music.

This production was also the first venture of the new Student Performers Committee, chaired by Pryor Dawson ’04. “I’m so
excited that we could come together and pull off an exciting night on short notice,” she asserted. She added that
it was a “good start” for a first try.

“There is so much talent at Davidson,”

---

Come enjoy the scenic mountains of North Carolina and get engaged with fellow Davidson students and faculty on the topic
of leadership.

Applications available from the College Union Business Office beginning April 2. Applications are due back in the Business Office by
April 27 at 3 p.m.
