Se |

12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 28, 2001

Davidson shocks North Carolina

Basketball, continued from pg. 1

At the ten-minute mark, the winds of fortune reversed, however, as UNC put Davidson on its heels with a 9-0 run over the next four minutes. Senior forward Jason Capel, who was not a factor at the outset, sparked the North Carolina offense—and the Smith Center crowd—with five points in four minutes.

Three points from Brian Bersticker brought North Carolina within four, 21-17, by the three-minute mark, and it appeared Davidson had stalled.

Compounding Davidson’s sudden offensive ineptitude was the young and inexperienced Wildcat lineup that ran the floor for most of the last five minutes of the half.

Fifth-year senior Erege had more playing time in a Wildcat uniform than the four other players on the court with him—combined. Joining him were second-year walk-on Terrell Ivory, true freshmen Eric Blancett and Conor Grace, and second-year man Jouni Eho.

“That was pretty much a band-aid approach,” said McKillop. “That gave our veterans, our starters, quite a bit of rest. Therefore, they were able to play the minutes they did in the second half.”

McKillop’s “band-aid approach” also allowed the Wildcats to escape threatening foul trouble. Middleman Martin Ides, who led the team with 10 rebounds, only played nine minutes of the first half after collecting three fouls well before the halfway point. Pearson had two personal fouls after fifteen minutes and did not play the remainder of the half.

Forced to bandage itself to conserve its big men and big shooters, Davidson still managed to keep the Tar Heels in check as the half wound down.

Foul shots by Blancett and Grace evened the score at 25 with just over a minute to play after Melvin Scott, who paced UNC with 11 points and Doherty called “one of the few bright spots,” led a North Carolina offensive rally.

After Erege and North Carolina’s Kris Lang exchanged a pair of free throws, Davidson and North Carolina ended the half deadlocked at 27.

“We felt that if we could hang in there through the first half, that we could make a game of it,” said McKillop after the game. “I was concerned that Carolina would come with a knockout punch in the first round.

“But we held the fort pretty well over the first half, and once that happened, we became believers and they became doubters.”

That change was palpable when Anderer hit Davidson’s first big shot of the second half—a wide-open 3-pointer near the top of the key that increased Davidson’s advantage to four, 36-32, seven minutes into the half.

North Carolina switched to a full court press as they reeled in Davidson, but Anderer hit another 3-pointer with just under 11 minutes to play. He ignited the Wildcat bench three minutes later with a juke to the right that opened a shooting lane for one more baseline trey as the shot clock expired.

Tar Heel Kris Lang, surprisingly inconspicuous much of Tuesday night, brought North Carolina within one, 44-43 with six minutes to play. But Blancett answered with yet another 3-pointer for the Wildcats.

“That was a pretty terrific shot for a freshman just coming off the bench,” said McKillop, who has called Blancett the best pure shooter on the team.

Still fighting a punishing North Carolina press, Davidson shut down the North Carolina offense and managed to extend their lead to eight, 54-46, by the 2:30 mark.

In a momentous defensive stand, Ides, on the brink of fouling out, camped under the basket as Capel made a drive to tie the game. The 7-2 Czech threw his arms up, creating a ten-foot wall that Capel could not scale.

But North Carolina refused to go quietly. And its senior leadership showed more tenacity than ever before.

Lang scored five straight points in less than a minute and Capel raised the roof of the Dean Dome when he followed Lang with a 3-pointer to tie the game at 54 with just under a minute to play.

Davidson scrambled to fight the UNC press and the thunderous racket of the Tar Heel faithful, and the ball eventually fell into the hands of a repose veteran—Michael Bree.

Bree found himself matched up against junior forward Will Johnson, who had struggled all night to contain him. He had the opportunity to drive past Johnson again en route to a tie-breaking basket, but he juked and dished the ball to a wide-open Pearson beneath the basket.

Pearson burned the net with what would be the winning basket as Lang and Capel looked on, frozen.

DUEL OF THE Forwards:
Emeka Erege ‘02 blows by UNC’s Jason Capel.

Caroline Hauser

Anderer sank two foul shots in the closing seconds to seal the win, a victory that will go down in Wildcat history as legendary but leaves McKillop a bit torn.

“Matt Doherty is like a brother and like a son to me,” said McKillop, who coached Doherty in high school and gave him his first collegiate coaching job. “I’m going to certainly celebrate this victory with our team, but in the aftermath I’ll certainly be thinking about Matt.”

Caroline Hauser

The Wildcats rose above all the defense the Tarheels offered. Erege jumpshots over double coverage in the final moments.

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Accept the challenges so you may feel the exhilaration of victory.”

George Patton

THE WEEK AHEAD

MEN’S BASKETBALL
Nov. 16 @ Charlotte 8:05
Nov. 20 @ North Carolina 7:00
Nov. 23 Oglethorpe 7:00

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Nov. 16-17 Military Academy Tournament (West Point, NY)
Nov. 21 Jacksonville 4:00
Nov. 24-25 Ronald McDonald Classic (Durham, NC)
Nov. 27 College of Charleston

SWIMMING
Nov. 17 William & Mary 1:00

WRESTLING
Nov. 17 Old Dominion Tournament (Norfolk, VA)
Nov. 24 Carolina Open (Chapel Hill, NC)

VOLLEYBALL
Nov. 16-18 Southern Conf. Tournament (Greensboro, NC)