SLR ANTLN TEN ETS AI SRR CR. 2 Servicemen load an AIM-7 "Sparrow" missile on an F/A-18 "Hornet" aboard the
USS Carl Vinson on Oct. 9.

Ideas, not bombs, should be top priority in Afghanistan
Our current military efforts have made the situation more dangerous
Josh Craft
Guest Columnist

Although the U.S. military bombing campaign in Afghanistan has seemed somewhat successful, the more important war is the war of
ideas. Our bombs may obliterate most or all of the Taliban’s resources in Afghanistan, but that will not be sufficient
to win the war of ideas. Terrorism and anti-Western movements are not based in states or governments, even though they
are funded by them. Terrorist groups exist because they appeal to impoverished and neglected people of the world. In order
for the U.S. to defeat terrorism, we must persuade the international community that the U.S. acts on their behalf. The
U.S. government and other sources of authority must seek to delineate themselves morally and legally from the terrorists.

Our current efforts have only made the situation more dangerous. Robert Fisk argued on Oct. 15 in the Independent (England)
that the bombings have fueled the idea that the U.S. is waging a war against Islam. Our continued bombings of
Afghanistan only lend credibility to Osama bin Laden and extremists who prostitute religious ideology to gain power. Anti-U.S. rallies have
sprung up all across the globe. Even Bush administration officials admit that we are losing the ideological and informational war
against terrorism. The administration also recognizes that our bombings increase the threat of terrorist attacks on the U.S. Our support
of Afghanistan’s Northern Alliance is not very wise, considering that forming short-term military alliances with such groups has often led
to future humanitarian disasters (Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden to name a few). And we are walking a tightrope
in Pakistan, where “President” Musharraf may be overthrown if he is seen as being too close to “the West.” Political
instability in Pakistan is quite risky, considering its possession of nuclear weapons.

I recognize that anger against the United States is inevitable and not entirely preventable. A few policy choices will not
transform our world into a stable, peace-loving paradise. But there is an alternative to continued bombing and a dangerous, full-blown
military campaign in Central Asia. Our government could do a series of things which, combined with legitimate military force, would
strengthen the war against terrorism. We should step up aid efforts to the poor throughout the world, especially to women
who have few social and political rights. We must try to bring the criminals who masterminded the murders committed on
Sept. 11 to justice through international law. The U.S. government should support an International Criminal Court. We should ease sanctions
that hurt the people of Iraq. We must criticize the leaders of Israel harshly for using U.S. military aid to
continue the occupation of Palestine.

Justice demands that we take such a path. It would also help us by distinguishing legally and morally from terrorist
organizations. Concrete actions would be much more helpful in improving perceptions of the U.S. around the globe than dropping leaflets
and food packages.

Josh Craft is a sophomore, with an interest in government and politics.

If you haven’t read the front page story about the alleged incident at SAE, then please go back and read
it. If you don’t want to read it, ask the person sitting next to you to explain it to you.
If you or no one has a clue of what’s going on, then let me provide some analysis.
Tim Cook ‘04

A couple weeks ago at “Tacky Party,” most graciously hosted by SAE, an incident was reported to PCC President Matt
Arbuckle about two students being verbally and physically abused by other students because they were homosexuals. This is a hate
crime. If it happened the way it was reported, then it is a despicable and degrading act that should not
go unpunished.

The issue that I want to address has to do with responsibility and support. Responsibility is a word that has
been thrown around a lot regarding this issue. Allegedly, the incident happened on the back porch of SAE. But does
this make the house responsible for an act that no one could have foreseen and that could have easily happened
anywhere? I should think not. Also, didn’t SAE have a Risk Manager and Campus Police officers present that night? Are
they not just as responsible? Their job is to keep the place safe as well. As a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha, I think all PattersonCourt members must stand behind what’s right. Time for the Court to unite SAE, as
the house is being hit with serious allegations stemming from this event. We must realize this could easily be our
house being put before the J-Board or Dean of Students. If we as a community allow SAE to take the
fall for something for which it may not be responsible, then we leave ourselves wide open for others to wreck
our fun as well. SAE is a convenient target for those looking for someone to hang. The house didn’t have
a great record for a couple of years, but has since endured much adversity to overcome a huge financial debt.
The house is bringing in a large pledge class this year and the brothers are striving to become known as
the “comeback kids.” The truth of the matter is that SAE is not the culprit. In fact, the brothers are
themselves victims. They are the victims of some idiots who took advantage of their hospitality. They will also be victims
if we don’t show our support for them. As a community, we should help these fellows who showed everyone an
incredible time that night, and get to the bottom of these allegations. The Court strives to welcome people of all
backgrounds, and we accomplish that primarily by keeping parties open and participating in community service and civic activities. Also, one
last challenge: If SAE goes before the J-Board at a hearing, I suggest that everyone who attended Tacky Party come
as well and testify to what they know. This could be the only way we really get to the bottom
of all this.

Uninspired architecture doesn’t reflect the imagination of the College

While walking across one of the newly constructed brick paths recently, I overheard a student jokingly comment that if he
were to ever have enough money, he would donate a building built of stone to Davidson just so that there
would be something on this campus not made out of red brick. While this comment was made in jest, there
is something to be learned from the student’s statement. It seems that every new building built at Davidson attempts to
mimic the Georgian architecture of the campus’ original buildings, such as Philanthropic Hall. This attempt to fit in with the
traditional architecture of the campus can be seen all over, from the columns outside Vail Commons and Little Library to
the Watson science building. These buildings attempt to be contextual and fit in with the surroundings. The problem is that
contextual buildings almost always result in uninspiring architecture because they simply recycle ideas of another era, often unsuccessfully. Rather than
create a sense of place, contextual buildings rob us of our sense of place. The Davidson campus, as beautiful as
it is, could be virtually any other campus in any other place. What Davidson needs are architecturally distinctive, innovative, and
original buildings that will show that we are a unique community. The reason this issue is important now is that
Davidson is currently in the midst of a building boom, yet the college is not taking advantage of this opportunity
to show its distinction through architecture. Recently, the college unveiled the plans for the renovation of the Chambers Building. While
the new design seems to meet all technical requirements, it fails to make any distinctive architectural mark. Instead, the renovation,
which would add classical style columns to the back of what is now Love Auditorium, seeks to merely fit in
and not offend. Why not use this renovation as an opportunity to show that we are an institution that looks
forward and embraces innovation, not one that looks only to the past and the familiar? Other institutions have used architectural
renovations to make statements about their philosophies. For example, in 1996 Cornell University renovated one of its most historically important
buildings, Sage Hall, to be the new home of its business school. The project restored much of the original exterior
while also renovating the interior and rear facade in a modern and architecturally distinctive style. The result is a building
that shows not only Cornell’s rich history, but also demonstrates that Cornell is an innovative and progressive institution that is
not stuck in the past. At Davidson, we are taught that our work should always be original and interesting, yet
our buildings do not reflect those ideas. Rather, when we walk around Davidson’s campus we see architecture that, while aesthetically
pleasing, is unoriginal and uninspiring. Only when Davidson’s architecture becomes more innovative and distinctive will it truly reflect the imagination
present at this great institution.

David Crow is a freshman from New York City interested in architecture and public affairs.
