THE PLEDGE

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

The Pledge reminded me of John Sayles’ Limbo in the way that it transcends its genre to become a movie about something, not just its plot.

Sean Penn’s film is disguised as a thriller involving a serial killer who preys on little blonde girls in red dresses. Underneath its engaging storyline is a movie about how promises can lead to obsession.

Detective Jerry Black (Jack Nicholson) is six hours from retirement when a call comes in: a young girl has been mutilated in the woods of Nevada. He goes out to the crime site and soon finds himself with the burden of delivering the bad news to the girl’s parents in a scene that itself is worth the price of admission.

Patricia Clarkson, who was unforgettable as a junkie in the best romance of recent years, High Art, plays the girl’s mother. She asks Black to promise to find her daughter’s killer. He swears he will, and so we have the movie’s title and the set-up for a study of obsession.

At first, it seems the case is solved. The police track down a retarded man (Benicio del Toro) who was seen running away from the body. Exploiting his mental capacity, the police get a quick confession and an end to the case. Jerry senses something is wrong, and keeping his promise, he devotes his life to finding the real killer.

Jerry sets up two traps in hopes of finding the killer. The traps are so wonderfully subtle that I don’t want to reveal them. All I will say is that we are so absorbed by the film that we don’t realize the horrifying existence of the second trap until it may backfire and end someone’s life. This is one of the great things about The Pledge: the way that Nicholson’s performance and Penn’s direction prevent the audience from recognizing the depths to which Jerry Black has sunk.

But The Pledge isn’t deceptive like M. Night Shyamalan’s films; on the contrary, it’s a little too honest in its examination of Nicholson’s character. Penn gives us too many shots of Jerry pretty much doing nothing. At first, they are effective and inspire the viewer to think about Jerry’s predicament. But after a while, they become boring, and we are restless rather than meditative.

Also, I had trouble believing the catalyst for Jerry’s obsession, the pledge. He is a good, honest cop who makes a promise he intends to keep. But would that vow run him into the ground and turn him insane?

I forgive The Pledge for these flaws for a few reasons. First, I liked Jack Nicholson’s quiet performance that anchors the film in reality. I also was intrigued by some of the small touches of Jerzy Kromolowski and Mary Olson-Kromolowski’s script. For example, there are a number of mentally retarded characters in the story, which are used not as novelties, but as symbols for Jerry’s diminishing sanity. Finally, it is rare to find a movie so dedicated to its ideas rather than its plot.

Though it does provide us with an explanation to the murder, the film does not care about that resolution as much as it does about the changes in Jerry Black. And after all the thrillers I’ve seen about perverted killers, I was grateful to see a thriller about a character, rather than perversity, stakeouts, and chase sequences.

Grade: B+

Snatch fun but slight

By Philip Stewart
Staff Writer

Guy Ritchie’s Snatch is fitful entertainment, but it’s not going to make the splash that his first film, the exhilarating Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, did.

There is nothing new here. Worse, what is there feels somewhat stale and over-baked—the shots feel more like gimmickry than useful stylistic nuance, the characters have obnoxious descriptive nicknames like Franky Four Fingers, and slight character actions cause major plot ripples (think a mob version of Seinfeld).

In one particular scene, a character opens a window to eliminate a smell; by this time in the movie, we are so in tune with the screenplay, we know by opening that window, something catastrophic will happen. I was reminded of the Seinfeld episode when Kramer drops a Junior Mint into a man’s chest cavity while observing surgery; that Junior Mint turned out to save the patient’s life.

The film is full of unexpected surprises and some great lines, and the performances by Brad Pitt and the wonderful Dennis Farina (Get Shorty) outshine the mostly British cast.

Benicio del Toro gives another brilliant acting job; he has turned into one of the most prolific, engaging, and brilliant actors working today.

Guy Ritchie is a talented director. It’s a shame he makes this film without taking any risks. The movie will not hurt his career, but it certainly won’t get him any closer to greatness.

Grade: B-