The Davisonian

Auletta analyzes Gates, credits his loss to ‘hubris’

By Matt T. Garfield | Sports Editor

Bill Gates became the world’s richest man by building his company, Microsoft, into one of the most powerful corporations in
the world. Those who know Gates say his technological genius and—maybe more importantly—his shrewd business sense were his most valuable
assets along the way.

Journalist Ken Auletta learned about the latter characteristic the hard way. Auletta, longtime author of the “Annals of Communications” column
in The New Yorker magazine, spoke about his new book, World War 3.0: Microsoft and Its Enemies, to a large
crowd on January 19 in the 900 Room of the College Union. Among the audience was his daughter, Kate, a
first-year student at Davidson.

Auletta’s experiences with Gates and the Microsoft antitrust lawsuit, which he covered from gavel to gavel, led him to conclude
that Gates and Microsoft could have settled the case years ago with relatively little damage to the company by showing
more respect for and cooperation with the government.

Instead, Gates displayed the same combativeness during the trial that he did in an encounter with Auletta when the two
attended the World Economic Conference in Davos, Switzerland. Upset over the tough questioning a Microsoft executive received at a panel
moderated by Auletta, Gates angrily confronted the journalist during dinner.

“Before he sits down, Bill Gates starts berating me,” said Auletta. “I’m looking up at this guy thinking ‘He’s nuts.’”

A little while later on the same evening, Gates grew even more furious during a question-and-answer session when Auletta asked
him, “What do you say to people who say that Microsoft often behaves in an arrogant manner?”

“He starts screaming at me,” recounted Auletta. “He may be the richest man in the world, but he’s crazy,” Auletta
remembered thinking.

That encounter sparked Auletta’s curiosity. He said he began to wonder what would make such a powerful man feel so
angry and besieged. He reveals his theory in his new book. Netscape, one of Microsoft’s fiercest competitors, had developed an
easily accessible Internet browser that Gates feared would topple his company’s supremacy.

“Gates was crazed about that,” said Auletta. “He was really worried.” So worried, said Auletta, that Gates and his company
began offering their own browser, Internet Explorer, packaged for free with Windows—two for the price of one. But, it began
strong-arming manufacturers into selling Microsoft’s systems instead of Netscape’s. In one year, Netscape’s share of the browser market fell by
more than 50%.

Enter the United States Justice Department. Alleging that Gates had achieved a monopoly over his competition, the government filed a
lawsuit with the intent of breaking up Microsoft—and crippling Gates’ hold over the computer market. Gates entered the trial with
the same arrogance with which he confronted Auletta only four months earlier.

“He basically harangued the Justice Department,” said Auletta. “‘To heck with Janet Reno,’ Gates was quoted as saying.”

Auletta followed every aspect of the trial and conducted extensive interviews with litigants on both sides of the case—he even
got three exclusive interviews with Judge Robert Penfield Jackson, who presided over the case.

Red Bikes, from page 1

...from Sun bikes, a really reputable company, with kick brakes and nice big handlebars and seats. They’re essentially bomb-proof, but
with a lot of style.

“If people treat them right, not delicately but not stupidly, the program will work wonderfully.”

Pittenger emphasizes the function of the Honor Code as integral to making the red bike program work: “The Code is
key. It’s all about respect. We believe that...The program will work because Davidson students are mature and honorable enough to
respect the bikes and take care of them.” And, like the Code itself, the bike program will make Davidson unique.
“This red bike program is just one more thing that separates us from other schools all across the country,” Pittenger
added.

As the big red bike debut draws near, students anticipate this new resource with excitement. Just ask Lindsay Offutt ’04
if she thinks McKeehan and Pittenger’s idea is a good one. “The bikes will be great!” she exclaimed. “The red
bikes will be a great new resource,” commented Randy Skattum ’01. “Especially for all those seniors coming up and down
the hill to class.”

SGA President Dane Erickson ‘01 encapsulated the benefits of the new program to the Davidson Community: “These bikes are extremely
practical in helping students, faculty, and staff get around campus quickly and efficiently. However, they also provide communal benefits. Because
the campus is collectively responsible for them, they will help build community. This program is just one more way that
Davidson can share in a communal good.”

Of course, opinion concerning the bikes remains slightly divided. Said Hak Shin Park ’04, “Aw, I doubt they'll be fast
enough, man.” But most agree that the new red bikes will be a great addition to campus, and the cooperation
between the SGA, Davidson Outdoors, and the Offices of President Bobby Vagt and Dean Tom Shandley has been widely complemented.
Perhaps only one vital question remains: Why red? “No one goes out to buy a red bike,” offers Pittenger. “They’re
easy to spot, and of course red is a Davidson color.” Indeed.

To usher in this new era of red bikes, Pittenger hopes to hold a releasing ceremony “probably sometime next week.”
The event should showcase notables from the local community and will no doubt be well attended.

When it was over, Auletta published a 25,000-word recap of the trial in an August 2000 edition of The New
Yorker, one of the longest pieces to run in the magazine in more than 15 years. His interviews with Judge
Jackson appeared in the January 15, 2001, edition of the magazine, timed to coincide with the release of World War
3.0. His appearance in Davidson was one of the first stops on a six-week nationwide tour to promote the book.

Auletta said the government built its case on the contention that Microsoft’s domination of the market stifled innovation in the
field. But he contends that was a weak argument. “It’s not an argument based on fact,” he said. Unfortunately for
Gates, Auletta said, the defense’s case was even weaker. In a videotaped deposition, attorneys grilled a nervous, sweaty, and often
agitated Gates for several hours. “His attitude was ‘Why are you bothering me with questions?’” said Auletta. The deposition essentially
supported the prosecution’s contention that Microsoft was arrogant and unfair. The judge had no choice but to rule for the
prosecution, splitting Microsoft into two separate companies and handing a decisive victory to rival companies. Microsoft has appealed the ruling
to federal district court, which will hear arguments this summer.

Despite losing the case, Gates’ attorneys would collect close to $100 million for their services. “They should be sued for
malpractice,” said Auletta. “When I look back on this dance, this trial... I say to myself ‘Why did [Gates] not
settle? Why did he pout like a child?’”

“I came to a conclusion that I call the ‘Human Factor.’ [The defense] ignored things like credibility, intent. They handled
it like an engineer would. And they are paying for it.”
