Vacuum after Taliban troops pulled out. Protecting our way of life requires military force. All kinds of ideas, opinions, and tensions that always existed are being brought to the surface due to the conflict in Afghanistan. Tony Blair calls for the existence of a “new world order” that includes a more globalized system of government for all nations. Democrats claim the country is now going to embrace “strong fiscal stewardship,” and Professor Campbell can no longer remain silent as he calls our national policy “wrong, hypocritical, ineffective, and counterproductive.” With Taliban forces evacuating Kabul and neighboring northern provinces, perhaps our policy isn’t so ineffective. True, the Northern Alliance is far from an ideal, democratic organization. But it’s much more favorable to the United States than the Taliban. In other words, America’s foreign policy of bombing in support of Northern Alliance ground forces has been a tactical success so far.

Professor Campbell’s appeal to the Christian foundations of this nation is also troubling. One can argue back and forth using Biblical references dealing with war and killing (e.g., the commandment actually states “thou shalt not murder” as opposed to “kill”). I personally would have serious spiritual and moral qualms about killing Afghanistan’s population in an effort to punish the terrorists. Fortunately, the U.S. is not engaging in some sort of deadly international retribution, but rather a well-planned military campaign in support of a nationalist group seeking to overthrow what was essentially in its origin a puppet government.

As for the claim that America “is too big and too free to defend from terrorism,” I respond with the question, “What should our response be?” Are we to bend to the terrorists’ demands? If you show that terror yields results, history has shown that terror will increase, not decrease. True, instead of attacking the terrorists, the United States could make an attempt to reorder the societal institutions of every nation around the globe, including those that do not pose a threat. We could, in Tony Blair’s words, create a new world order consisting of an outside force dictating what is right and what is wrong. That all sounds well and good, but what if an outside force did not like the American legal system or disagreed with a change of policy inside America? What if it deemed America’s tax laws unjust and a crime against humanity because they do not establish free public health care and a guaranteed source of income for everyone? Clearly, establishing some sort of interfering international order with power far beyond the scope of the U.N. is a dangerous proposition.

Professor Campbell does bring up an interesting point by mentioning the building of fortresses along the U.S. coast to protect us from Japan during World War II. Taken by themselves, forts are obviously ineffective deterrents against the mighty Japanese navy. But once one understands their role in the larger U.S. war policy, one sees that the sense of security they provided was well worth the cost. The government was not only building coastal forts for military purposes, but also to set the minds of Americans at ease. The best way to deal with an enemy who has shown desire to kill and destroy a way of life is to take the fight to him. After achieving total victory over the opponent, like the U.S. did over Japan and Germany, we can then show mercy and aid in the rebuilding of social institutions (just as America did with Japan and the Marshall Plan in Europe). Only after victory can preventative measures be implemented. One cannot prevent a war that has already started. The same can be said of our efforts against the terrorists that started the war against the U.S. on Sept. 11. Because the enemy does not occupy one specific land mass, its destruction is made more difficult. Nevertheless, the basic war strategy laid out in WWII should be implemented here: Force applied to a foe that is willing to kill, then economic stimulation and aid.

An appeal to the heart instead of the mind has plagued American political life for years. Our international policy should never be cruel, but it should serve the people of America in the best way possible. Part of that is through extensions of American goodwill by state and private means. But it also requires a firm stance on defending America’s right to be “too big” and “too free.” Sometimes maintaining freedom requires us to use force against those who would go to any means to dictate how we live our lives.

Michael Galdo is a sophomore history major with an interest in international politics.

---

Extend party hours? Get your priorities in line

The first time I stepped on campus, I knew Davidson College was the place for me. Now, however, I am not so sure. Two of the biggest reasons I chose Davidson were its healthy focus on academics and its friendly, considerate atmosphere. I turned down several scholarships to other excellent schools in order to attend Davidson, my dream college. I realize it was inevitable that some of my “warm fuzzies” would be tempered by a colder reality, but I wasn’t prepared for the extent to which Davidson fosters a party atmosphere at the expense of all else. Though consideration and respect are usually shown, quiet hours are an exception. They are routinely disregarded, and any proposal to extend these already lenient hours...Alarms me. After talking with several people, I know I’m not alone in feeling that extending weekday party hours will probably translate into a much-dreaded reduction of sleep for the remaining students (especially those with 8:30 classes and/or early-morning sports practices). We have lost sight of our priorities. I, for one, didn’t come to this college merely for a “good time.” While I agree that socialization is an important part of the college experience, I don’t think it is the sole purpose of attending college. Learning seems much more crucial. It’s pretty hard to learn when you’re exhausted and grumpy because someone deliberately chose to be inconsiderate after they returned from a party (and yes, it is deliberate—who’s the one who knowingly chose to get intoxicated enough to cause disruptive behavior?). Yet it’s not entirely the students’ fault. Many authority figures tend to turn a blind eye toward alcohol use, which seems hypocritical when the policy for every other kind of illegal drug is “zero tolerance.” Perhaps the serious problems associated with binge drinking would decrease if underage drinking were enforced according to the stated policy. I have no problem if people want to have fun on the Court. However, some people have repeatedly shown that they’re incapable of having fun while respecting the rights of others (not to mention the law). Extending the party hours will only aggravate this problem. If the main thing they want to do at college is ‘party hearty’—every night—hey, maybe they should try a different school. I will be disappointed if the SGA passes this proposal, for it would demonstrate that.

Nicole Mah ‘04

J-Board might function better if not so shrouded. I was invited to be a guest of SAE at the Judiciary Board hearing last week. To say the least, I was very honored when President Skylar Hoffman called me up. I have been writing about J-Board for a year now, and until last week I didn’t have a clue what the thing was. I went to PCC meetings, looked at the website, joined a fraternity, interviewed and asked questions, but never really learned much about J-Board. So when I got an invitation to a normally top-secret hearing, it was basically like an offer to watch the Joint Chiefs in action in Washington. For me, this is the big time, because let’s face it, I like to write about the mischief that frat guys get into, no matter how big or small. It’s interesting. And J-Board, as we know from this year’s events, is a place where houses are either broken or made stronger. What I saw on Nov. 8, however, did not impress me. The problem is that I can’t tell you why I am displeased because of the confidentiality requirement. Going to the meeting was like a blessing and a curse. It’s real tough to be a big mouth, nosy reporter when you aren’t even allowed to describe what you see. I think a lot more people would catch my drift if they attended a hearing. (I am trying my best to keep safe in this article, as I pledged my honor that I wouldn’t say anything specific.) Though I know this particular case was rather weird, I still want to throw in my half a cent. With all this said, I was displeased at the “ignorance” of the trial. And though I can’t back up my charge of ignorance with quotes and statements, let’s just say that I think key testimony was left out and that SAE came out lucky. Luckily though, this problem can be discussed since it wasn’t during the trial. This ignorance stems from the secret nature of the board. We are part of a very small and tight-knit community, and it doesn’t take long for information to leak out to the public (at least as long as I am around), so trying to keep the members of the board quiet and away from rumors is an impossible job. So that surely can’t be the reason everyone is so tight-lipped. It seems to me this attitude is taken because the Board wants to keep all the testimony from leaking out, especially if it is rather damaging. But with our little school, the information will get out no matter what, so why not let the right information out to at least clarify the situation? It sure would clear up a lot of people’s perception about this past trial, since no one is terribly clear on the matter except the committee, SAE, and me. But I think the real problem lies in the readiness of the defendants who often come to the hearing without a clue of what is going to happen. And since I can’t write about it and most likely no one will get a chance to witness one, the organization at hand will be flying blind. I'd like to suggest open hearings with at least PCC advisors invited so that the board is held accountable to the rest of our peers. I think the pressure might get a few more engines pumping. The J-Board is still a good organization. It’s a committee of our peers who try to give us a fair shot before we are shipped off to the Dean of Students. I criticize not to hate, but to give advice, in my own hillbilly way. I just think J-Board’s secretive, shrouded nature has given it the reputation of a mysterious smoke-filled room, where frats don’t come out stronger, but go in and never come back out.

Tim Cook ‘04