The purpose of a newspaper, including The Davidsonian, is to inform the public and to provide a forum for the
discussion of issues relevant to the community. Printed information, however, is not free. To cover the costs of this service,
newspapers must sell advertising space. In this regard, newspapers also function as businesses. At first glance, it would appear that
these two sectors are separate and should never overlap. In recent weeks, however, conservative columnist David Horowitz has confronted college
newspapers across the nation and challenged their notions of advertising and the free press. Horowitz submitted an advertisement to sixty-five
student publications in which he articulated “Ten Reasons Why Reparations for Slavery is a Bad Idea for Blacks — and
Racist Too.” Some newspapers refused to run the ad, but those who chose to run the ad faced a firestorm
of controversy — students marched in protest, burned copies of the offending newspapers, and demanded the resignation of the responsible
editors. In response, some newspapers offered apologies and retractions, while others stood firm by their initial decision. While this was
not the first time such an incident has occurred, nevertheless, Horowitz and his “ad” raise an interesting issue. Are newspapers
responsible for the potentially inflammatory content of their paid advertisements? If so, then they should be able to reject some
clients on the basis of their agenda. On the other hand, does the guarantee of free speech extend to anyone
and everyone, provided they can pay for the space? Is there such a guarantee for printed speech? Horowitz’s ad would
not have been published in The Davidsonian. This is not because of any disagreement with his material, though many of
his arguments are distasteful and ill-conceived. Instead, the issue at hand is the “product” Horowitz is promoting. He does not
urge us to “Eat at Joe’s” nor suggest that we purchase a new “widget.” Rather, he is trying to sell
a point of view. He is essentially using “mass marketing” to push his political views on others. There is a
word for this — propaganda. Published advertising space is simply not the place to espouse opinions; that falls under the
purview of the “Perspectives” section of the newspaper. Constructive dialogue demands that such arguments be presented in the context of
open, respectful exchange. Printed propaganda sends the message that because the author has money, he or she deserves an audience.
Everyone has the right to speak; no one automatically deserves the captive attention of the community of readers. If Horowitz
had wanted to publish his ideas, he had every right to submit letters to the editors of newspapers. The editors
of this newspaper would have judged it like any other submission — on the basis of coherence of thought and
relevance to the community. Although that would not work for him in the case of The Davidsonian (he would need
to be a student, faculty or staff member, or alumnus), if he found a student to co-sign the article, The
Davidsonian would have considered the contribution. To provide a public service, a newspaper might sell access to its readers’ consumer
tastes. But our principles are not for sale at any price. Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors in Chief

Flynn article belonged in editorial section

As a former staff writer and Op-Ed editor for The Davidsonian, my background in journalism allows me to pretty conclusively
recognize the difference between an opinions piece and a “news” piece (not that any intelligent person isn’t able to distinguish
between the two). As such, I was shocked this morning as I read The Davidsonian article by Brent Byars, “Flynn
crusades against convicted ‘cop killer’” — and on the FRONT page, no less. Shocked, because the article is both inaccurate
(I was at the lecture) and partial. Rather than belonging on the front page news, this article belongs in the
Perspectives section, if it belongs in The Davidsonian at all. When a person reads a supposed “news” article, the writer’s
bias is not supposed to be so blatantly obvious, but anyone who attended the Flynn lecture and understands how to
separate fact from personal bias could verify that Brent doesn’t leave his (personal bias, that is) out of this piece.
His reporting of the “facts” was disgustingly one-sided, if not altogether incorrect. In terms of one-sided: Brent writes that “one
comment in particular drew clapping and cheering from most of the audience:....” First of all, I would argue that not
“most” of the people were clapping, but that’s beside the point. He forgot to mention an equally popular comment that
drew applause (maybe from those who didn’t clap the first time). This second comment remarked on a feeling of disappointment
in the lack of respect and the resolution of many in the crowd to discount any fact that Dan Flynn
offered. A brilliant, courageous statement and observation in my opinion, and one that runs counter to the “perspective” offered by
Mr. Byars. By presenting only the first quote, in terms of the atmosphere and the audience’s beliefs, Brent misleads the
reader that didn’t attend the lecture. He portrays an enlightened group of young respectful Davidsonians who listened to a right-wing
lecture and brilliantly (and again, respectfully) contested the speaker during an ensuing, provocative debate — when what we were all
really witnessing was mostly a sequence of incoherent (some people were so angry they could hardly spit out their words
and then refused to listen to any argument Mr. Flynn offered in defense) sentences from students who took Davidson’s motto
of “liberating the minds of young men and women” a little too far. But again, I’m straying from my point.
Mr. Byars did not accurately portray the atmosphere of the evening, instead he gave his opinion, just like I’m doing,
which is why you see my response in the Perspectives section and not on the first page (in case you
try to call me a hypocrite, I just addressed why I’m not). The point, to be redundant: Mr. Byars can
give his views all he wants, but don’t print the article as if it’s factual (i.e. in the news section)
when it clearly wasn’t.The other “fact” reported was that students walked “up to the dais to confront Flynn with factual
inaccuracies in the case...” That’s interesting, because I was one of the students who “employed the new rhetoric technique minted
© by Al Gore” (WHAT?) and although there were some heated students (mostly misinformed and emotionally out of control, but
again that’s another issue, I’m simply speaking to the unbalance of the article) many offered a word of encouragement and
respect for Dan Flynn and his pursuit of the truth (was that part reported, NO! How dare the reader think
that anyone agreed with the speaker (or at least his mission), and those consenters, by the way, were not so
rare as one might be led to believe), a difficult task in today’s world where an argument of emotion and
opinion seems to take precedence over one based in facts—a sad reality confirmed by the appearance of Brent’s article featured
on the front page of today’s Davidsonian.

Erin McKinley ‘01

Figueroa’s contributions to students merit tenure

As a current student here at Davidson College, I am writing to express my dissatisfaction with the recent decision to
deny Prof. Figueroa tenure. A large group of students has gathered to discuss the action we will take in response
to the tenure committee and trustee’s decision. This letter is just a beginning; this occurrence will not go unnoticed. We
demand an explanation. Why is it that Prof. Figueroa was denied tenure when he has contributed so much to Davidson?

I believe that Dr. Figueroa truly cares about his students. This care is the primary quality that I, as a
student, look for in a Davidson College tenure professor. Isn’t that the most important characteristic of a quality instructor? Dr.
Figueroa challenges his students in the classroom, and always presents a different way to analyze literature. He is always willing
to meet with students, and is an incredibly cheerful and friendly person. At the same time, he constantly reinforces the
idea that students should question and analyze literature in a deep and more critical way. His classes are fun, but
not easy. They are intellectually challenging and interesting, because students actually learn in Spanish about Hispanic and Latino Culture. Doesn’t
Davidson want to promote diversity? Why, then, is a man who teaches and represents Spanish-speakers being rejected from this institution?

Ramon Figueroa has also been an active member of the Davidson College community. He helps the Dean Rusk Office make
grant decisions, annually helps put on the Dia de los Muertos and Cinco de Mayo celebrations, has taken a group
of students to Mexico for two months, and is a faculty member of OLAS (Organization of Latin American Students). This
last activity is especially important because without the help of Professors Maiz-Peña and Figueroa, OLAS would not be here on
campus today. The decision to reject him as a tenured professor is like a rejection of Hispanic and Latino students.

After a weekend of Decision Davidson, I wonder how the Administration can expect current students to encourage perspectives (especially minorities)
to come to this school that wants to present itself as being “committed to diversifying” as Dr. Ballard (1998) and
Dr. Figueroa have been denied tenure? This institution prides itself on being an academically superior liberal arts college. As a
student, I have learned much about the importance of freedom, equality, and justice through the many different courses offered here.
But this recent decision has shown me that the college does not necessarily practice what it preaches. According to its
Statement of Purpose, part of the college’s primary focus is to aid in the development of “creative minds” with faculty
members “whose interest in students and teaching is unfeigned and profound.” Dr. Figueroa is integral to this purpose given his
sincerity and imaginative approach to teaching students.

I insist that all those involved in the tenure process reconsider their decision in the interest of the students who
admire and greatly respect Dr. Figueroa. The students are the reason Davidson College exists. It serves us, for the sake
of our educational well-being. I expect a strong response to this situation. If he leaves, it will be a terrible
loss to the students, and the greater college community. Many of us are ready to support Dr. Figueroa in a
possible appeal, so please voice your concerns and demand answers from the Davidson College Administration.

Marie Sharp ‘01, Former president of OLAS

Yes, there is life outside Chambers

As a member of Patterson Court Council, I was deeply offended to read an e-mail circulated by Dr. Denham on
April 6, 2001. This e-mail was written after Dr. Denham witnessed a pair of Phi Delta Theta students participating in
a senior tradition of dropping library books (and themselves) down the main staircase of the library. In his e-mail, Dr.
Denham contends that the presence of fraternities at Davidson “stands in gross contradiction to the ideals this College professes.”

I write this letter not to defend the actions of those individual fraternity members—or for that matter, any number of
the arguably unhealthy and disrespectful activities engaged in by Davidson men and women in the context of the Patterson Court
system. But I feel that Dr. Denham’s fierce and sweeping indictment of Patterson Court life at Davidson cannot be left
unanswered. Any number of the College’s publications profess to the world that Davidson has engaged me in opportunities that otherwise
would have been far less accessible. It has allowed me to serve in a leadership capacity on campus—representing Connor to
Patterson Court Council. It has provided outlets for service—over the course of our requisite service hours this semester, for example,
Connor is sponsoring a breast cancer awareness/fundraising project.

It would be wrong for me to contend that there are not ongoing issues of concern amongst members of Patterson
Court. But it is equally wrong for Dr. Denham to reduce the Patterson Court experience to one that is in
“gross contradiction” to the ideals of leadership and service. Contrary to Dr. Denham’s apparent contention, there is life outside Chambers
at Davidson. And I’m proud to be a part of it.

Nancy Kohler ‘03
