By Erin THOMPSON Staff Writer

To be completely honest, when I promised a friend that I would go and support his pal John, the opening act for long-haired David Lamotte last Saturday night, I was not looking for a life-altering experience. I expected to go and listen attentively for twenty minutes, cheer as loudly as possible, and then hang around for the next hour of hokey folk songs, anxiously awaiting my chance to escape to the 80’s party on the court with my newly crimped hair. Admittedly, anyone who saw me that night might have thought that’s exactly what I did. Yet my heart experienced so much more.

The evening began as John Catoe crossed the stage with his trusty guitar and addressed the largest crowd he had ever faced. Between self-written ballads and Beatles and Radiohead covers, he humbly pointed to his open guitar case in the corner and requested donations for relief efforts. I admired John’s openness and genuine happiness to be sharing his music with us, and indeed he began the evening with utmost sincerity and concern for others. Suddenly a party down on the court didn’t seem so pressing.

David Lamotte crossed the stage with lightness of foot and a swish of hair, and addressed the crowd with a gentle voice. “Let’s give another hand for John,” he declared. “This is the first time I’ve heard him, and I’m impressed. I’m looking forward to the next time.” The humility of his tone and demeanor gave no indication of the sheer amazement we would soon experience as he began with his “little instrumental number.” Using his guitar as both string and percussion, we were surrounded by the reverberating echoes created by what he referred to as the “ping pong effect.” It seemed as if he plucked and patted his way inside each and every listener’s soul, and I smiled to see friends around me leaning forward, completely enraptured.

Touched by the welcoming words in Mr. Lamotte’s second song, I realized that this was more than a traveling musician giving a free concert to college students. This was a man who was inviting other men and women to share a piece of his heart, his idealistic dreams, and the little disappointments along the way. During the next hour and a half, I felt that somehow time had escaped; all the worries and expectations that usually swim through my head were put to rest. I was amazed at the utter honesty Mr. Lamotte’s lyrics displayed. Whether sweetly crooning about midnight strolls in “Walking Home with You,” or bluntly challenging the potential rigidity of upper-class Christianity in “Butler Street,” his tender voice convinced me that he believed every word that crossed his lips. Supporting this were his occasional lapses into storytelling. Though his anecdotes seemed at times lengthy and lacking in direction...

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon inspires admiration

By Derek Lou Staff Writer

Action belongs in the movies in one of two cases: if the action is first rate and/or if the action is actually needed by the story. For an example of the first variety, see Face/Off or pretty much any Jackie Chan movie. For an example of the second variety, see Three Kings or Dark City. Few movies satisfy one of the two conditions, and even fewer satisfy both. When you find a movie that does, it’s usually the type of film that has you imitating the characters as you walk out of the theater and back to your car. Rob Roy was like that, and so is Ang Lee’s Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, a film of great beauty, excitement, and melodrama.

Ang Lee’s most notable films prior to Crouching Tiger include The Wedding Banquet (1993), about a gay Chinese man who tries to please his parents, and Sense and Sensibility (1995), the acclaimed Jane Austen adaptation that earned a Best Picture nomination at the Academy Awards. Lee also made The Ice Storm (1997), a grim story about two rich Connecticut families living in the turbulent times of the 1970s. The Ice Storm is similar in its themes and tone to American Beauty, but it far surpasses Sam Mendes’ film on every conceivable level. With that much diversity and acclaim to his name, Lee has said that Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon is like a dream...come true, an understandable statement considering the harsh realities and emotional truths of his previous ventures that contrast almost everything in his latest movie. Here is a film so frank in its fabrication of fantasy that, in some perverse way, it is honest. At no time do we believe that the characters actually can fly, or can jump from rooftop to rooftop, or can fight like Ralph Macchio crossed with Superman. And Ang Lee doesn’t try to make us believe. This isn’t The Matrix. And yet, the fight scenes of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon are unmatched by any film I’ve seen in their grace and ability to exhilarate. The story, based on a novel by Wang Du Lu, centers around a teenage girl (Zhang Ziyi) with an affluent background and hidden martial arts talents. A grossly oversimplified summary of the plot: the girl’s lover (Chen Chang) and three warriors (Chow Yun-Fat, Michelle Yeoh, and Cheng Pei Pei) are, for various reasons, on the hunt for the girl. But like in most good movies, the details of the plot aren’t really that important. It’s just a vehicle for the action and the grand emotions the movie brings to the audience. I admired Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon for the expected reasons: the fight scenes are thrilling, beautiful, and necessary; the story is well-told and intriguing. The characters are complex enough to make us care, but simple enough for us to understand. The cinematography is beautiful; the acting is solid. I loved Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon for its sense of adventure. You know a movie’s great when it makes you try to jump off walls and onto the tops of cars. Grade: A.

He didn’t pull his set list out until halfway through the show, and it was obvious that the explanations he gave regarding his lyrics were intended to give the rest of us a better understanding of the deeper meanings behind the simple words. Mr. Lamotte’s sense of humor and the refreshing way he could laugh at himself further broke the barrier between musician and audience. While attempting to sing the third love song he’s ever written (and, as he added, the only one that does not indirectly mention puking), his whistling interlude was interrupted as he began to chuckle with the rest of us. “It’s a little hard to whistle while you’re smiling,” he concluded. Reflecting on the messages of his songs, I appreciated his ability to look at every person he meets as an individual, and not merely as one of the many in a passing crowd. This was especially clear in the witty “Middletown Mall,” which he wrote right after Thanksgiving. We all laughed at the silly situations he described; yet the laughter, I felt, was somewhat self-depreciating. How many times has each of us passed a man sitting on a bench in the mall, staring at the crowd? David Lamotte gave him a name and guessed that he is not really as interested in the people passing as he seems. It made me wonder to myself when the last time was that I saw such a man and really processed the fact that he was a human being who values his life in all its details just as I do mine. Do I ever stop to wonder what his name is? “There’s no time like the present, and there’s no present like time.” Mr. Lamotte sang those words and I heaved a great sigh. As I left the 900 Room that night, I felt as if I had been given a gift. In the midst of all the craziness and rushing to finish work in order to socialize in order to release the stress so I can work well again, I had been granted two hours of refreshing honesty, a reminder of what is really important. After all, I don’t want to leave this place burned out by all the activity and deadlines. Years from now I want to be able to look up at the stars on a moonlit night and say with as much conviction as Mr. Lamotte, “I still believe in flying, and I still believe in love.”