__from previous page__

For war, please realize that America is not equipped or seriously trained for the battle ahead. To be certain, our soldiers are much better than the enemy, and we have some excellent “counter-terrorist” organizations, but they are mostly trained for hostage rescues, airfield seizures, or the occasional “body snatch” (which may come in handy). We will be fighting a war of annihilation, because if their early efforts are any indication, our enemy is ready and willing to die to the last man. Eradicating the enemy will be costly and time-consuming. They have already deployed their forces in as many as 20 countries and are likely living the lives of everyday citizens. Simply put, our soldiers will be tasked with a search and destroy mission on multiple foreign landscapes, and the public must be patient and supportive until the strategy and tactics can be worked out.

For the most part, our military is still in the process of redefining itself and is presided over by men and women who grew up with—and were promoted because they excelled in—Cold War doctrine, strategy, and tactics. This will not be linear warfare; there will be no clear “centers of gravity” to strike with high technology weapons. Our vast technological edge will certainly be helpful, but it will not be decisive. Perhaps the perfect metaphor for the coming battle was introduced by the terrorists themselves aboard the hijacked aircraft—this will be a knife fight, and it will be won or lost by the ingenuity and will of citizens and soldiers, not by software or smart bombs.

We must also be patient with our military leaders. Unlike Americans who are eager to put this messy time behind us, our adversaries have time on their side, and they will use it. They plan to fight a battle of attrition, hoping to drag the battle out until the American public loses its will to fight. This might be difficult to believe in this euphoric time of flag waving and patriotism, but it is generally acknowledged that America lacks the stomach for a long fight. We need only look as far back as Vietnam, when North Vietnamese General Vo Nguyen Giap (also a military history teacher) defeated the United States of America without ever winning a major tactical battle. American soldiers who marched to war cheered on by flag-waving Americans in 1965 were reviled and spat upon less than three years later when they returned. Although we hope that Usama Bin Laden is no Giap, he is certain to understand and employ the concept. We can expect not only large doses of pain like the recent attacks, but also less audacious “sand in the gears” tactics, ranging from livestock infestations to attacks at power distribution facilities. These attacks are designed to hit us in our “comfort zone,” forcing the average American to “pay more and play less” and eventually eroding our resolve. But it can only work if we let it.

It is clear to me that the will of the American citizenry—you and I—is the center of gravity the enemy has targeted. It will be the fulcrum upon which victory or defeat will turn. He believes us to be soft, impatient, and self-centered. He may be right, but if so, we must change. The Prussian general Carl von Clausewitz (the most often quoted and least read military theorist in history) says that there is a “remarkable trinity of war” that is composed of the (1) will of the people, (2) the political leadership of the government, and (3) the chance and probability that plays out on the field of battle, in that order. Every American citizen was in the crosshairs of last Tuesday’s attack, not just those that were unfortunate enough to be in the World Trade Center or Pentagon. The will of the American people will decide this war. If we are to win, it will be because we have what it takes to persevere through a few more hits, learn from our mistakes, improvise, and adapt. If we can do that, we will eventually prevail.

Everyone I’ve talked to in the past few days has shared a common frustration, saying in one form or another, “I just wish I could do something!” You are already doing it. Just keep faith in America, and continue to support your President and military, and the outcome is certain. If we fail to do so, the outcome is equally certain.

God Bless America,
Dr. Tony Kern, Lt Col, USAF (Ret)

Looking for the Interview? Read the special announcement and voice your choice.

By Martha Hunt
Arts and Living Editor

What? You’ve picked up the Davidsonian again? I thought you had already thumbed through it once or twice. Oh... You felt as though you were forgetting something? Yes, of course. Allow me to...Suggest a pleasant diversion: the Arts & Living Interview! By all means, make yourself comfortable. If you’ve never joined us, welcome. You’re in for a ride. If you’re a faithful fan of the Interview, congratulations. You’ve found the one thing in the paper which really doesn’t have anything to do with anything. As a matter of fact, the (ahem) powers that be here at the Davidsonian aren’t too sure that the Interview really belongs. My argument is that it fits under the “living” part of “Arts and Living.” If you like it, let us know. If you don’t, pipe down. Your ridiculous opinion doesn’t count. (Just kidding! Sorry. I saw something to that effect on a t-shirt this weekend and HAD to fit it in somehow). Should the Interview stay? Or be cast out into rejected journalism oblivion? You decide! You know the drill - contact me at mahunt@davidson.edu, or write the Editor-In-Chief, Burgin Hardin at buhardin@davidson.edu. Seriously, folks. Young or old, student or faculty, the time has come for all good Davidsonian readers to voice their choice. There’s no need to fill up A&L with random ramblings unless it’s what the PEOPLE WANT!! The future of the A&L Interview depends on you, so let us hear from you soon.

Value Village: the place to be if you want personality.
By WARREN CHRISTIAN AND GAVIN WEBER
Staff Writers

Take I-77 to 85 South. Drive a few miles, and exit at Freedom Drive. Go left. Drive a mile or two, and turn right at Bojangles. “Value Village: The Department Thrift Store” is what the sign says. The directions are for all of you who frequent the Goodwill at Exit 28, for all of you who wear a Cub Scout hooded sweatshirt, for all of you who want a cheesy pair of aviator sunglasses, for all of you who own a faded shirt that boasts some achievement that will never be yours, for all of you who want a shirt that boasts some achievement that will never be yours. (For example, “Camp Hitawa is the GREATEST CAMP IN THE WORLD!”) Value Village is a haven for all vintage wannabes in the Charlotte area. It’s a place for those of us who won’t buy an Abercrombie faded T-shirt for the fear of becoming a sellout. And then of course it’s damn cheap — around $1.50 per shirt. Pants are slightly pricier, but they remain college-student-budget friendly. It doesn’t have the rock-bottom prices of Goodwill, but, oh the selection! Sizes large and small, logos from Home Depot to Hooters to Kingston Presbyterian Church, items from real fur coats (for $25) to sunglasses to tacky belts to televisions.

Another week, some more free time...
Compiled by DEREK LOH
Arts and Living Editor

The Verizon Wireless Amphitheater has a few notable shows early next month. On October 3rd, Snoop Dogg will perform at 7:00 pm. Country star Jo Dee Messina plays on the 5th, and Tool on the 6th. And if you’ve got nothing to do during fall break, Jane’s Addiction hits the Amphitheater on the 12th. Tickets for all shows are still available (at time of writing) at ticketmaster.com. Also, Janet Jackson has her show at the Charlotte Coliseum on the 21st of October.

Charlotte’s theater community has a few notable performances in early October. The Actor’s Theater of Charlotte opens Rupert Holmes’ Thumbs on the 3rd. Also on the 3rd, the Moving Poets Theater of Dance debuts their multimedia interpretation of Macbeth, and the following day, Terrence McNally’s Corpus Christie opens. Also, a little later in the month, Theater Charlotte begins You Can't Take It With You on the 25th. The popular comedy will run through November 11th.

Perhaps, though, the most important event in the Charlotte area finds itself at the Manor Theater. Apocalypse Now Redux, the 202-minute version of Francis Ford Coppola’s 1979 film, opened at The Manor on Friday. On the whole, reviews have criticized the extra footage, complaining that they take away from the film’s narrative drive. Those same reviews, however, welcome the additional scenes on a it’s-cool-to-see-them basis. But why should you spend 3 hours and 23 minutes with something that is familiar to you? I turn to Gary Thompson of the Philadelphia Daily News: “Redux is a rare and fascinating chance for a movie buff, film student or casual fan to stand in the shoes of a guy like Coppola, compelled to cut nearly an hour from a movie he loved, and to gauge the decisions he made.”

Tickets to the Queen City Music Fest are available! Contact Elizabeth Devlin at eldevlin@davidson.edu or Erin Raffety at erraffety@davidson.edu for more information.

You heard it here first
Quote of the week: “...we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain...” - Taken from poster commemorating Pearl Harbor attack, December 7, 1941

Did you make it to Coffeehouse on Friday night? If you didn’t, you missed an awesome time. A very special thank-you goes out to the Union Board for sponsoring the free-pottery-painting bonanza, and to everyone involved in making the evening fun. We can’t wait to do it again!