THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats crush Keydets

By KATHERINE CULP
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams traveled to Richmond, Virginia. In their first win of the
season, the Davidson men soundly defeated the VMI Keydets 203-83, bringing their record to 1-2. The women lost to the
University of Richmond 198-101.

The Wildcats won 15 events against VMI, with several swimmers winning all of their events, including freshmen Michael Flowers and
Foster Matthews. Flowers won the 500-yard freestyle, the 1000 free, and the 200 backstroke, while teammate Matthews captured the 100
breast, 200 breaststroke, and the 200 IM, with Beau Dasher ’04 in second place. Also winning events for the Wildcats
were Robert Koch ’04 and Charlie Hunter ’04. Koch dominated in the 100 free and the 200 free, and Hunter
secured the 100 backstroke, the 200 fly, and a second place finish in the 100 fly. Mike Warner ’02 finished
first in the 50 free and second in the 1000 yard freestyle.

The Wildcats also finished first in both relays. Hunter, Mike Mazza ’04, Matthews, and Koch won the 200 medley relay.
In third place were teammates Nick Blackwell ’02, Dasher, Laurant Ropars ’04, and Nathaniel Wittstruck ’05. The team of Koch,
Steven Reece ’02, Warner ’02, and Flowers ’05 captured the 200 free relay. For the second meet in a row,
diver Chris Wrobleski ’05 won both the one-meter and the three-meter diving events.

For the women, Melissa Marquez ’05 dominated the 200-yard breast in 2:23.68, breaking the school record of 2:24.29 she had
set last weekend. Joanie Gidas ’04 finished in second behind Marquez. Sara Laws ’04 and Trisha Black ’05 controlled the
backstroke, with Laws winning the 100 and 200 back and Blackwell right behind her in second place. Shelley Conroy ’02
and Gidas both captured second place finishes for the Wildcats—Conroy in the 200 fly and Gidas in the 100 breaststroke.
Lauren Taft ’05 placed second in the 100 fly and Conroy placed third.

Coach Jim Conlon was impressed with the outcome of the meet and with the teams’ performances. “The swim team has
added nineteen times to the school records since the start of the season,” said Conlon. “We’ve been doing really well,
especially since we are swimming teams that are much stronger.”

The Wildcats will have a brief rest until the next competition. On November 17 they will host a meet against
William and Mary, at 1 pm in Cannon Pool.

By LIZ GROSS
Staff Writer

A rocky season came to a close for women’s field hockey last weekend, as the Wildcats traveled to Boone, NC,
for the NorPac Conference Tournament. As has been the trend all year, Davidson suffered narrow losses and overtime defeats, despite
outstanding play and stiff competition.

The Wildcats’ first game pitted them against No. 17 University of California, the number one seed of the tournament. California
scored twice in the first half, putting Davidson behind by two at the break. The game was just beginning, however,
and the second half was a scoring fest for both teams. Less than a minute and a half into the
second period, Davidson’s Amanda Strickland attacked with Davidson’s first goal of the match. One minute later, Kathleen Fenn scored again
for the ’Cats off an assist from Alex Rogers, tying the game at 2. California scored two more goals, but
Davidson kept fighting back. Strickland continued her offensive attack and found the back of the net two more times with
assists from Liz Schoening. The score remained even at the end of regulation play. It was not until the second
overtime period that California’s Sarah Hunt scored, handing Davidson the narrow 4-5 loss.

“We gave Cal their best competition of the tournament,” said sophomore Zoe Segnitz. “Our game against them was viewed fairly
unanimously as the highest skill seen all weekend. Their win over us was lucky—they recognize this as much as we
do.”

The ’Cats then faced host school Appalachian...State University for their second game of the weekend. ASU scored less than a
minute into the game and added a second goal later in the half to increase their lead to two. Davidson
scored late in the second half with a goal from Fenn, assisted by Rogers. But with less than two minutes
of play left, it wasn’t enough for the win. Freshman goalie Cate Schenning played both games for the Wildcats, tallying
6 goals against California and 4 against ASU. Davidson is ending the season with a 5-14 record in head coach
Christy Morgan’s first season as a Wildcat. The young team is looking forward to progress next year, having gained strength
from the past season. “This year has been one of a lot of growth not only as players but as
individuals,” said senior goalkeeper Manda Mordavsky. “These women are amazing people, and I will miss them greatly next year.”

Cats face Spartans to open SoCon women’s soccer action
By Nicholas Carlson
Staff Writer

Cross-state foes UNC-Greensboro and UNC-Wilmington both defeated the Wildcats handily in soccer contests last week. The Wildcats’ offense played like
ghosts in the Halloween night 3-0 loss to the Spartans of Greensboro. The Cats were doubled up in shot totals,
18-9. For the Spartans, Kate Dylag scored two and Katherine Trevillian added one to put the game out of reach
for Davidson by the 57:39 mark. Head Coach Kevin Hundley commented on the ghost-like offense, saying, “I felt that the
final score demonstrated that Greensboro finished their scoring chances better than we did, but not that they necessarily outplayed us
by three goals.” The loss was especially trying due to its importance as a conference game so close to the
end of the season. The silver lining in this game’s dark cloud was the return of the starting goalkeeper Sarah
Hobart. She recorded 10 saves in the game, firmly planting her on the road to recovery.

In another frustrating loss on Saturday, the ’Cats paced the Seahawks of UNC-Wilmington for most of their game, only to
fall after a goal came five minutes into the second half. Hobart notched six saves on the evening. Seniors Natalie
Cox, Penn Graves, and Carolyn Stumpf finished out their Davidson home games with the loss, and the ’Cats drop to
a 7-13 season record. The Southern Conference Championship kicks off this weekend at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. The ’Cats
enter the tournament with a 6-4 conference record, backed by their inspirational four-game win streak earlier in the season. The
sixth-seeded ’Cats will first face the third-seeded UNCG Spartans after a 10-day break from one another. The Spartans captured last
year’s conference title with a 1-0 victory over the Furman Paladins. The game is slated for 7:30 p.m. on Friday,
Nov. 9.

Happy Birthday, Mom! Make Mom Proud. Write for the Davidsonian. To join the sports staff, contact Caroline (cahauser) or Jimmy
(jiswansbrough).

Men’s Soccer, continued from pg. 16

“Like we had more and better scoring opportunities,” commented Spear after the game. “Giving up a penalty kick at home
for the game’s lone goal is a tough way to lose. As I had expected, our team’s confidence and ability
to create dangerous chances increased as the game progressed to the point where we had plenty of chances to claim
the win. But it all comes down to putting the ball in the back of the net and, to Furman’s
credit, they got the goal they needed.”

“We would love to play them again in the tournament,” Spear noted. “But we have plenty of work between now
and then, starting with our final home game on Wednesday against Wofford. We would love a big crowd to help
push us through.” Following the Wofford game, the Wildcat regular season will come to an end on Saturday as the
’Cats travel to Georgia Southern for another SoCon showdown.

Fraternities @ Sororities @ Clubs @ Student Groups
$1,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy fundraise
