DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2001

Incident at SAE party prompts investigation

Fraternity faces uncertain future in wake of hate crime allegations at October 6 party

By LINDY BALDWIN AND COLIN EAGAN
News Editors

School officials are investigating what they call a hate crime alleged to have occurred at an Oct. 6 party at Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Two students claim to have been verbally and physically assaulted by other students at a party.

According to Patterson Court Council President and SAE member Matthew Arbuckle '02, two students, who identified themselves as homosexuals, reported to him that while on the SAE porch during a “Tacky Tie AIDS Memorial Quilt Party” on the night of Saturday, Oct. 6, they were verbally assaulted by a group of students on the porch. The pair alleged that full beer cans were thrown at them, and said they fled as they were chased on foot by partygoers who had jumped from the porch, allegedly with the intent to inflict bodily harm.

“This is a big deal and a horrible thing,” said Arbuckle. “I have never heard of such a discriminatory act happening on the Court.”

The exact time of the incident is unknown, but the party lasted from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. The victims, both males, reported the incident to Arbuckle on the following Monday. After hearing of the incident, SAE was asked by school officials to turn over the perpetrators, said Arbuckle. When unable to do so, the house was asked to help in an investigation.

The campus will welcome a powerful memorial to the Alvarez College Union on October 26. See article on page 2 for details.

UNION DEDICATION

By LINDY BALDWIN
News Editor

The headline may seem like something you’d find in The Davidsonian’s annual spoof issue, but this isn’t a joke. The College will play host to the world-renowned Royal Shakespeare Company this February. Fifty members of the world’s leading classical theatre company will arrive at Davidson on Feb. 19, and will stay for two weeks, culminating in 11 performances of a new production of Shakespeare’s The Merchant of Venice, directed by RSC veteran Loveday Ingram. This performance will be rehearsed and premiered in Stratford-upon-Avon and London before coming to Davidson. The production will be the crowning event of the Duke Family Performance Hall dedication; the same cast and crew that performed in England will perform at Davidson.

Carrie Van Deest ’98 is coordinating the program, and believes that it will be extraordinarily beneficial for both the college and the community. “This is not just a couple of actors coming over from the RSC. This is an entire production, a full cast, a full crew, an educational staff, voice staff, movement staff. The RSC...

College threatened with Mp3 lawsuit

By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

NetPD, a Cambridge-based consulting firm contracted by Sony Music International, Inc., has accused Davidson, among other schools and institutions, of violating the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 2000. John Casey, Executive Director of Information and Technology, has received at least three messages naming specific files...that are being illegally transmitted from the college. To date, all reported file abuse has been perpetrated with Aimster, a downloadable file-sharing program that uses AOL Instant Messenger technology to trade files with peers on a user’s “buddy list.” According to Casey, NetPD “assumes that Sony has not granted the right to transmit these works to whoever’s doing it on the campus.” Because of the college’s firewall, all computers on the network operate under the same ISP address. Thus, NetPD can be no more specific than naming Davidson as the copyright offender. “An institution like Davidson is not legally responsible for copyrighted materials which are shared from the network,” says Casey, “provided that, when notified, we take steps to make whoever the offending person is cease and desist. The College ultimately has to protect itself from becoming a repeat offender, which makes all the protections of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act go away.”

ITS cannot, however, simply email the responsible party and request their discontinuance of copyright violation. “One of the problems we have is that, because of our firewall, everything in the world has a single address if it comes from Davidson College,” explains Casey. “That’s a pretty common practice, and the idea is to protect individual machines within the Davidson domain so they can’t be attacked externally; nobody knows what your exact Internet address is.” “Because of that, the address that NetPD says is where these offending messages originate...

see Bandwidth, page 3

A More Perfect Union. The new Alvarez College Union will be formally dedicated on Thursday, October 25. See story, page 5.

Royal Shakespeare Co. to visit theatre next year

...is basically moving in here for two weeks and making Davidson their home. “The Royal Shakespeare Company is considered one of the best, if not the best, English-speaking theatre companies in the world. To have them available to Davidson students, staff, and the larger Davidson community is tremendously exciting. The last residency the RSC did on a college campus was at the University of Michigan, an institution with an enrollment of well over 30,000. As far as I know, this residency will mark the first that the RSC has planned with a college of this size,” Van Deest said.

Naturally, said College President Bobby Vagt, every effort will be made to take advantage of the tremendous educational opportunities these visitors bring with them. “We want to create learning opportunities outside the formal classroom,” said Vagt. “RSC Artistic Staff, actors, and technicians will be working with students and professors in classes in many departments,” explained Van Deest. “The education program will also include public events like discussions, demonstrations, classes, pre-play and post-play talks. Because the RSC will be...

see Shakespeare, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-7
College prepares to dedicate Alvarez Union. See page 5.

Arts & Living 8
The Robber Bridegroom opens this week. See page 8.

Perspectives 9-10
The plaque debate continues. See page 9.

Sports 11-16
Men’s and women’s basketball teams tip off season with Matinee Madness. See page 16.