5 ele “Boy” suffers
Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

Rebecca Gilman’s “Boy Gets Girl” made its regional premiere at Davidson last week. After successful runs in Chicago and New York, the School’s production of the play followed the precedence of its predecessors and sold out the Black Box Performance Space. Following the first two performances of the production, the director and various members of the faculty led a discussion on “issues [‘Boy Gets Girl’] raised on the threat of violence and questions of safety for contemporary women” (from the press release).

And indeed, “Boy Gets Girl” is discussion-worthy. But my interest in the play has little to do with “questions of safety for contemporary women.” In fact, it has nothing to do with the Davidson production. My qualms and questions are not with the Davidsonians involved; I can only offer them the highest praise. Rather, I take issue with Gilman’s play, merely the words that form a play. Please keep in mind this distinction between production and the play itself.

Two words: “die whore.” That lovely phrase, “die whore,” signifies “Boy Gets Girl”’s permanent departure from Cautionary-Taleville for the big city of Fairytale-opolis. Its characters are stock: the ditzy secretary; the wise old man; emotionally scarred, successful women with troubled pasts. As for its story, it involves a stalker whose actions are of the most extreme nature. He stalks and harasses as much as one can and still be considered only a stalker. It’s all very inflated.

The involvement of the phrase “die whore” is past the play’s halfway point, and before then, Gilman’s text flirts with exaggeration and legitimate, honest observations — or maybe generalizations — of contemporary American men and women. For example, audiences will remember with a smile the calendar marked by a monthly. The men who discover this calendar are baffled and dismiss their puzzlement. And then one character’s mental light bulb illuminates: her period. The two men jump up, avoiding the calendar as if it were a powder-filled envelope. So here we have a funny, affectionate generalization of the American man: his ignorance of and disgust with the menstrual cycle. And there are a few more of these observations sprinkled throughout. Another example: men’s widely shared love of gigantic breasts. (I don’t place the adjective “heterosexual” in front of “men’s” because at one stage, the stage at which we suckle profusely, all men — or to be more correct, all men and women — loved, and perhaps depended on, gargantuan mammary glands.)

But back to my reservations. In my preview article of the production, I wrote the following: “It’s interesting that Gilman’s work...has been described as theatrical, elevated Lifetime Television. Lawrence Frascella says, ‘This harrowing story of a stalker is far richer than the stuff you get ad nauseam on Lifetime.’” Having seen the play, I’ll stand by my words. Actually, it is very interesting that “Boy Gets Girl” can be described as elevated Lifetime Television: very interesting because I now realize that “is far richer than the stuff you get ad nauseam on Lifetime” should be read as “contains language that Lifetime Television will not air.” I agree with Mr. Frascella if by “far richer,” he means “more explicit.”

Indeed, I believe Rebecca Gilman’s play exists on the same, exaggerated level of artistry, didacticism, and narrative as Lifetime’s very best movies. “Die whore,” then, is Gilman’s way of declaring her play a resident of Fairytale-opolis. To explain, I’ll continue with Ben Teresa’s dating show theme of last week’s Davidsonian. A writing episode of MTV’s Dismissed would feature Ms. Gilman and two single techniques, Mr. Exaggerated-Hit-You-Over-The-Head Tale and Mr. Truthful-Observed-Subtle-Human Story. And instead of metaphorically dismissing Mr. Truthful-Observed-Subtle, Ms. Gilman simply would write the phrase “die whore” into her play, revealing Mr. Exaggerated the winner: Mr. Exaggerated gets girl, if you will.

But who is to say that subtlety is favorable to exaggeration? Indeed, exaggeration and blatancy are surefire methods of clarifying a message or idea. We all remember the tale of “The Boy Who Cried Wolf.” The slow, gruesome, painful murder of those poor, cute, fluffy, unfortunate sheep carried a clear message to all of us in our childhood. Seriously confronted with this fable now, we would most certainly laugh. There’s something innately childish and absurd in exaggeration, of course except when exaggeration is satire. And there are times when “Boy Gets Girl” is only a few knives and threatening letters away from satire. Of course, though, no one laughs at “Boy Gets Girl;” we do, however, laugh with Gilman a few times (i.e. the period calendar).

The point here is that “Boy Gets Girl” exists on the Lifetime side of the exaggeration-subtlety continuum. Its placement, though, is just slightly off-center, making it easy for Lifetime lovers and others like Mr. Frascella to triumph its cautionary values relevant to women today. Make no mistake: I am not questioning the legitimacy of issues raised by the play, issues of stalking and threats. And I must confess that I have never seen a Lifetime movie, so I cannot fairly poke fun. I feel justified, however, in using the channel as a comparison because of its accepted connotations of overstatement, embellishment, and preachment. And it is with these words that I associate “Boy Gets Girl.”

Despite its good reception, I feel “Boy Gets Girl” would have been more effective had it been toned down a bit. Take American Beauty, for example, and compare it with The Ice Storm. I realize I hold the minority opinion, but I believe The Ice Storm betters American Beauty simply because its characters and situations are grounded in reality, whereas American Beauty could be described as a fairytale based on The Ice Storm. For me, as for many, stories nuanced with details of everyday life and of general, universal situations (i.e. the period calendar) prevail over their exaggerated counterparts. However, there is something to be said of satire and over-the-top, black humor: visit the work of Todd Solondz (Happiness and Welcome to the Dollhouse) or playwright and filmmaker Neil LaBute.

We associate different levels of exaggeration and fable with different stages in our lives. For example, “The Boy Who Cried Wolf” for children and “The Prom Night Baby” for teenaged girls. The level of exaggeration found in “Boy Gets Girl” seems appropriate for a pubescent audience, but the story itself belongs more to female college students and their same-sex elders. So alas, the flaw of “Boy Gets Girl” stems from the disparity of its audience and Gilman’s style. I certainly haven’t heard of any pubescent stalking victims. But maybe I am wrong. Times are changing. Fantasies of hijacked jetliners crashing into the Eiffel Tower don’t seem so fantastical anymore.

Daveydating.com to the rescue
Press RELEASE
DaveyDating.com

It is obvious to most of the studentpopulation at our fine school here in Davidson, North Carolina, that the dating scene is far from flourishing. In fact, just a short time ago it was basically non-existent. I have a theory that the dating scene was eaten by a giant turtle. People try; people want to learn about each other, people want to start relationships, people want to date. The travesty is that due to our present campus culture, this is very hard for them. People are not expected to ask each other out on dates! I have seen guys standing outside a girl’s door, sometimes pacing up and down the hall, just waiting for them to come out, so that they can simply talk to them. These people can’t even knock on the door! Everyone has seen something like this. Where people are trying to spend as much time around each other as possible, however, they cannot ask this person out! This causes confusion as to the various intentions of the individuals involved. Maybe one of them doesn’t want a relationship, but the other doesn’t know. This is an undeniably sad climate at our school. THIS SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED TO CONTINUE!!

Just a little while ago a magnificent thing happened. Some call it a miracle, some call it “what the world was waiting for,” some call it “a wonderful gift from above by some truly brilliant people to whom I would like to dedicate my life and give all my money to.” Some people got very upset because there is apparently some rumor going around that we actually have the mandate of God. However, in truth, we are a dating service, specifically for Davidson College. We are attempting to change the dating scene in fair Davidson. This greatly saddening situation at our school spawned DaveyDating.com. We want dating to be something that is done readily on campus (dating, yes, actual dating). It is okay for people to sign up with DaveyDating.com just for fun. Now, please brace yourself, for I am about to give you a very small glance behind the scenes at the now famous DaveyDating.com. If you have heart troubles, high blood pressure, are pregnant, or have a slight headache at the time of reading this article, I advise you to read no further.

People go to our site (a surprisingly large amount of people), fill out three required questions, and as many supplementary questions as they want. Each answer that they give us helps us to match them up better. Behind the scenes, we have a mystic machine, sometimes called a computer, which uses magic, our help, processing power capable of finding extraterrestrial life, and the answers to the questions, to set people up. We give people a basic format and loose timeframe for their date, as well as the contact information of the perfect person for them. Thus dating history is made. The numerous people who sign up for our service are soldiers. They are soldiers in our only army that is fighting to reclaim what that turtle so horribly stole from us so long ago.

Tomahawk show slashes Carborro
By Justin Ossmann

Offensive Hal
By Lisa Collins and Larkspur Van Stone
Special Contributor

A few weeks ago, the Cat’s Cradle, a music venue located in Carborro, North Carolina, was home to one of the most prolific and innovative musicians out there creating music, and one of his numerous bands and side projects. Tomahawk, a musical entity existing somewhere in the ether between the genres of alternative rock, heavy metal, and ambient, is one of more than half a dozen bands formed by Mike Patton, once vocalist of the group Faith No More and now providing verbal schizophrenia for the likes of Mr. Bungle, Fantomas, and even a stint with the Dillinger Escape Plan. The man has had his hands deep in the creation of much good music, and live held the respect of a king while acting the part of a jester. Coming onto stage wearing a cut-off tee shirt, a hairnet, and the words “Taco Belle” written on his stomach, the unsuspecting concertgoer might not have known what to expect. But the house was packed with many a fan of Mr. Patton, and there was no doubt even before the show began that this was not going to be an ordinary concert. The first song, sung by Patton through a gas mask that doubled as a microphone, was everything a mosh pit could ask for, while never delving too deeply into the folds of metal. In all he used four different microphones, as well as a slew of equipment and devices with what purpose only he himself could know. Patton thrashed about the stage, stood dark and brooding, and cackled like an insane schoolboy, all the while providing bizarre soundscapes, synthesizers, and electronic sound effects. His bombast was downright exhausting to watch. But for just over an hour, music of a most unique and passionate kind was being performed in Carborro, most definitely unlike any other in the state that evening.

Special Contributors

One may recognize the scenery for the movie Shallow Hal because it was filmed in nearby Charlotte, NC. So if you decide to see it, look for familiar landmarks. You enter the theater thinking you are in for a slapstick comedy. If this is what you are looking for, Shallow Hal is not for you. I am not saying that there are not enjoyable moments. In fact, at some times the movie is a knee-slapper. Instead, it is filled with borderline offensive commentary on a subject that is painful for many Americans, obesity. Though it appears to be comical, in actuality Shallow Hal is correctly labeled a drama. This is an appropriate category because this movie battles with some serious topics. The main character Hal, Jack Black, can be described as a pitiful middle-aged man on the hunt for the “perfect woman.” Hal and his buddy, Mauricio, played by Jason Alexander, are constantly in search of beautiful women. Perfection for these men is solely based on superficial beauty. They do not look beyond the physical aspects of the girls they pursue. Hal gets stuck in an elevator with a hypnotist. He does not know that his perception of women would soon change upon being hypnotized. From this moment on, Hal unknowingly finds himself attracted to a woman’s inner beauty. It is now that he finds the woman of his dreams, Rosemary Shanahan, played by Gwyneth Paltrow. Outsiders are only able to see Rosemary for her obesity. This is where the drama unfolds. Hal has to soon come to terms with his issues about being superficial. The true heart of the movie lies in the issue of defining beauty. No two people have the same definition of beautiful.