Davidson Welcomes Three New Coaches to Football Coach Mike Toop

BY JACKIE DAVIDSON
Staff Writer

The Wildcat football team etched its name in Davidson’s gridiron history books by finishing its 2000 season 10-0, marking the
first unblemished record in 103 seasons of football at the college. How well the 2001 ‘Cats follow up last year’s
undefeated season depends upon how well they respond to change—in particular, the hiring of a new head coach and the
loss of players instrumental to last year’s success.

photo courtesy Sports Information

The Cats begin the season with their third coach in as many years. Replacing 2000 Wildcat coach Joe Susan is
former University of Connecticut Defensive Coordinator Mike Toop. Toop brings an impressive resume: two seasons at both Albany State University
and Union College; five seasons at Colgate University; and seven seasons as defensive coordinator and linebacker coach for the University
of Pennsylvania, during which the team captured the Ivy League Championship three times. In 1995, Toop was named American Football
Quarterly Magazine’s National Division I-AA Defensive Coordinator of the Year.

Despite an impressive track record, Toop must combat a conference change as well as the loss of several key players
from last year’s gifted squad. The loss of starters on both sides of the ball also means increased responsibilities for
several Wildcats. While Paul Nichols returns as the Cats’ starting QB, a core of running backs—particularly freshman John Leverett—will have
the difficult task of filling the huge shoes left by graduate Bryan Fish. In addition, the Cats will need big
years from both senior Mike Tarver and sophomore Randall Hardy, two of the team’s primary receivers. The sure-handed junior Mike
Chase, who will see more touches as he moves from tight end to wide receiver, will also be expected to
heavily contribute to the Wildcat offensive attack. Defensively, the Cats will have to rely on the Elmore twins to help
compensate for the loss of All-American Ryan Crawford in the Wildcat secondary.

While a multitude of changes marks new beginnings for the Wildcats, much is still expected from this year’s team. Prior
to the beginning of the season, Davidson was ranked fourth in the Sports Network I-AA Mid-Major Top 10 Poll. Only
time will tell if the ‘Cats can live up to expectations.

Soccer Coach Matt Spear

BY NICHOLAS CARLSON
Staff Writer

New head men’s soccer Coach Matt Spear has come home—at least that’s how he feels. A captain of Davidson’s 1992
Conference-winning team, Spear knows the school, the team, and the competition. While moving on to the business and marketing end
of soccer after graduation, Spear served as a part-time assistant coach for five years under predecessor Charlie Slagle. “It’s definitely
a dream come true,” said Spear of his new position, “I’ve always enjoyed being a part of Davidson.”

The dream had a fast start as the Wildcats won their first tournament of the year, the Holiday Inn Centre
City Classic. The team won one game and lost another, capturing the tournament on goal-differential. As exciting as that may
seem, Coach Spear means to temper the enthusiasm. “We really want to peak around the second week in November,” he
said.

Spear hopes to have his team fully prepared for first-ranked Furman in November. Furman likely presents the largest obstacle for
the team to overcome on its way to a successful season. “To get to the NCAA tournament is definitely the
goal for us,” said Spear. “[Furman is] a great team and it’s going to be really important to beat them.”
With the season now underway, Matt Spear can now hope to turn a dream job into a dream season.

Field Hockey Coach Christy Morgan

BY LIZ GROSS
Staff Writer

Last Saturday’s win over American University marked the team’s second consecutive victory of the season under the direction of new
head coach Christy Morgan. The Davidson field hockey teamAchieved a landmark of 200 overall wins with this showdown victory. Junior
Agnes Bateman scored the solitary goal of the match off her own rebound, leading the team to the 1-0 victory.
The previous weekend, the ‘Cats cruised to a solid 4-0 victory over Longwood, out-shooting their humble opponents 27-11. “We definitely
played as a team against Longwood,” said Morgan. “We started a little slow, but we grew throughout the game and
it was a great opportunity to see where we are and who will be stepping up during the season.”

Morgan, a previous Olympian and coach within the U.S. Field Hockey Program, brings an interesting new dimension to the field
hockey team during her first season. “I believe in first preparing the mind and then the body,” she said. “Skill
will come when you develop the right mindset.” This includes practicing visualization techniques and doing inspirational readings with the team—part
of Morgan’s goal to develop the whole person. “I was really drawn to Davidson because of the quality of people
here,” she said. “I enjoy the opportunity to work with overachievers.”

The Wildcats face a challenging season up ahead, confronting some established powerhouses such as Duke and Wake Forest. The team,
however, is taking everything one step at a time to focus on the present moment. “We want to get the
most out of every game, every opportunity, every practice, and every ball,” says assistant coach Amy Tice. No limits, however,
are being set. “When it comes right down to it, we can be whatever we want to be,” says Morgan.

The Wildcats’ next home game will be this Saturday, September 8, as they host Appalachian State in their second NorPac
Conference match.

New Assistant Coaches Arrive

Compiled by Caroline Hauser

Editor

Brian Fork - Football

A 2001 Davidson graduate, former fullback Brian Fork returns to Richardson Stadium as an assistant football coach. A native of
Raleigh, NC, he was an athletic and academic all-conference quarterback at Needham Broughton High School and spent two years at
N.C. State before transferring to Davidson. As a senior Wildcat, Fork scored a significant touchdown in the close (20-17) victory
over Centre College.

Adam Johnson - Women’s Cross Country/Track

After finishing seventh in the 2000 Southern Conference championships, the women’s cross-country team is optimistic about the upcoming season—due in
part to new assistant coach Adam Johnson. Johnson was a captain of his team at Centre College in Danville, Ky.
He graduated in 1997 and immediately began as assistant coach to both the men’s and women’s teams before moving on
as an assistant coach at Miami University. In addition to his cross-country position, Johnson will work with track sprinters and
field events athletes in the spring.

Amy Tice - Field Hockey

New field hockey coach Amy Tice arrives at Davidson after successful coaching positions at Archbishop John Carroll High School in
Radnor, PA (1994-96) and, most recently, at Central Michigan University. Tice spent her undergraduate career at James Madison University. In
addition to leading the field hockey team, she was an Academic All-American (1992-94) and a Colonial Athletic Conference Scholar Athlete
(1992-93).

Amber Grahn - Volleyball

Amber Grahn, a former MVP and team captain at Wake Forest University, joins the volleyball team as assistant coach. After
graduating WFU in 2000, she spent a year in Austria’s professional league as outside hitter for the HYPO Bank Volleyball
Club. While there she also spent time promoting the sport through youth-league clinics. During her collegiate years, Grahn worked as
an assistant summer camp coach and head coach for pre-teen teams.

In their own words...

“I’m really looking forward to continuing the winning tradition that Davidson has created over the last few years.” ——Coach Toop

“It’s definitely a dream come true...I’ve always enjoyed being a part of Davidson.” ——Coach Spear

“I was really drawn to Davidson because of the quality of people here...I enjoy the opportunity to work with overachievers.”
——Coach Morgan
