A student just like you... the person you never knew  
By Martha Hunt  
Arts and Living Editor  

Congratulations! Welcome to The Davidsonian’s brand-new feature. Every week, Arts and Living will profile a student, just to satiate your incurable curiosity and nosy nature... oh come on, admit it. Haven’t you seen someone walking around on campus who seems especially interesting, but you’ve never had the guts to confront them with character-probing questions? Well, brace yourself for a thrill: I’ll be doing the dirty work for you. My interviews will ask questions delving deep into the psyche of Davidson students. Get ready for weekly exposés on the personal lives of people just like you - and hey, you never know. Someday it could be you in the hot seat.

So, you’re still reading. Good. Before I spill all the goods on this week’s victim (i.e., interviewee), allow me to introduce myself. I’m Martha Hunt, your illustrious Arts and Living editor. I'm a freshman and a studio art major. I’m also a bookworm, but we can talk about that another day. For now, it’s time to reveal the multifaceted student of the week: Jeremy Hunt, aka my brother. Yes, a brother-sister duo at Davidson. It does happen.

Jeremy is a sophomore, and you might have seen him last semester when he dyed his hair blue (stay with me, now. We’ll talk about the blue-hair thing a bit later). Azure hair struck me as quite unique, and since this is the first time I’ve done an interview like this, I figured a sibling would be the perfect guinea pig. I interrogated Jeremy at 1 AM on a Monday night, which, for those of you who don’t know, is prime time on 3 Belk. I sat on the floor in his dorm room, which I’ve discovered also doubles as Grand Central Station: after five minutes I lost track of the number of people stopping by to say “Hey dude, what’s up?” Finally, I ignored the traffic and dove right in.

Me: So, Jeremy, what is up?  
Jeremy: Not much. How’s it going?  
MH: Great. Thanks for doing this interview.  
J: Sure thing. What’s the first question?  
MH: What was your favorite game as a kid?  
J: I liked Mousetrap a lot. But then, my favorite game changed depending on how old I was. I liked beating people up with sticks (laughing) - just kidding.  
MH: I should hope so. Okay, who’s your favorite superhero?  
J: Underdog. He had a catchy jingle.  
MH: What’s your favorite item of clothing? Something you wouldn’t want to be without.  
J: (grinning) Fruit of the Looms... no, heh, just kidding. I’d say my Chuck Taylors (Converse shoes).  
MH: Here’s a clincher: if you had to choose between standing on top of Chambers in your underwear or wearing makeup to a whole day of classes, which would it be?  
J: Definitely Chambers in underwear. It’s that extreme sense of freedom, in more ways than one.  
MH: And now for the question which everyone wants to know but nobody asks: Delilahs or Generals?  
J: Whoa. That’s hard... Generals. I’m not sure why. Probably because I have friends in the group.  
MH: Ah, special. Now, on a plane, would you choose the window seat, or aisle?  
J: Aisle, definitely aisle. I’ve always got to have my space.  
MH: So, what’s up with dying your hair blue, and then shaving it off?  
J: (laughs) Uh, that was my punk phase. No, seriously, I just did it for the heck of it. I’ve always wanted to do something funky, and when my 21st birthday rolled around, I decided to do the hair instead of getting smashed at a bar somewhere. I liked it (the hair) blue. Then I thought “Hey, I’ve never been bald before. I might as well see what it’s like.” So I took a straight razor and shaved it! That was fun. Although I did have to wear sunscreen, and a hat - it gets a bit chilly with no hair up there.  
MH: What’s the dumbest thing you’ve ever done?  
J: Running into a steel crane door while playing paintball. It gashed my head and I had to have staples instead of stitches.  
MH: Ouch. Here’s a sensitive topic: What do you think of your roommate?  
J: Andrew’s got awesome skill with the beatbox. He’s an awesome guy and a lot of fun to live with. I am especially impressed with his talent in improvisational songs.  
MH: Okay, you knew this question had to come up some time: If you were banished to a desert island and you could take anything with you, but only one thing, what would it be?  
J: Oh man, that’s tough... (thinks for a while). Hmmm... my Bible.  
MH: Who’s your favorite Muppet character?  
J: Aww! Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem. He’s the ringleader of the musical group, and he speaks in riddles and rhymes. Example: “We am is are and be them they those who are known as the Electric Mayhem.”  
MH: What’s the worst driving experience you’ve ever had?  
J: My driving test. When I tried to do a 3-point turn it became a 16- or 17-point turn. That or trying to learn the stick shift.  
MH: Describe a contradiction about yourself.  
J: I can’t think of one.  
MH: Oh, come on, there must be something. Like “I hate salty foods but I love french fries”?  
J: Here’s one: I’m a Davidson Outdoors trip leader and I have yet to lead a trip (bursts out laughing).  
MH: That’s pretty good. Now here’s a very serious question, one you should fully consider before answering: If you were a hotdog and you were starving, would you eat yourself?  
J: Uh, yes.  
MH: You answered that one pretty fast. Here comes another one: what’s it like having your sister at school?  
J: It keeps me on my toes because you check up on me more than I check on you. Haha, just kidding. No, really, it’s awesome. It’s fantastic having you here because you’re one of my best friends (smiles).  
MH: Awww...Thanks. Okay, we’re getting close to the end here. What things in life are important to you?

J: My asthma inhaler, my Toy Story alien with bulging eyes, quality time with my friends, Young Life, good music, and spending time with my family.

MH: If you don’t have homework, what do you like to do with your time?

J: Goof off to the max. Play pranks on other people, go see movies, listen to music, play frisbee-golf, that kind of stuff.

MH: What have I not asked you that you’d like to talk about?

J: What, another question? Ha. I can’t think of anything else.

MH: Well, thank you so much for being the very first person to participate in “A Student Like You, The Person You Never Knew”.

J: Hey, it’s been fun. Hope it turns out well.

MH: Before I leave, one last question.

J: Yeah?

MH: Do you like The Davidsonian?

J: (shrugs his shoulders) It’s all right, I guess. (laughing) No, The Davidsonian’s pretty cool.

MH: Now that’s what I like to hear.

---

Gladiator fails colossally despite critical acclaim
By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Monotonous, overly pretentious, messy, drab, and ultimately boring. That’s what I called Gladiator in an article a few weeks ago, and it seems my comments angered more than a few people. If people don’t like what I say, at least I can be content knowing that some people actually read what I write.

Gladiator’s commercial and critical success makes it easy for us to forget and ignore its shortcomings. In that way, it’s similar to American Beauty. But while American Beauty is merely flawed, Gladiator fails at almost all its artistic and technical endeavors. It doesn’t even work as a guilty pleasure movie. I love guilty pleasure movies, movies like The Mummy, The Sandlot, Mission: Impossible, and yes, Titanic. I was hoping Gladiator would be one — straightforward, honest, and skilled in its exploitation of our thirst for action and violence. (On an important side note, Julie Taymor’s Titus, the Roman epic to see in 2000, managed to quench this thirst while criticizing it at the same time.)

Director Ridley Scott and the film’s writers, however, couldn’t settle for an action film, and to some degree, I must admire their ambition to create something grand. Their attempts, however, are shameful. Having made Alien and Blade Runner, Ridley Scott knows how to use special effects, and yet his version of Rome in Gladiator looks no better than a video game, especially in the aerial shots of the Coliseum and dream sequences.

I’m willing to forgive the unconvincing effects of the dream sequences: they are fantasies. However, in a movie that is so brown and drab, they contrast the rest of the movie so that we see them as art for art’s sake rather than important plot points that are integral to the story and character development. What’s worse are the action sequences, which are confusing and poorly executed. The first one begins promisingly enough. I enjoyed the color scheme of dark grays and blues and bright oranges. However, the rest of the scene and the rest of the movie settle for gore over stunning visuals. There is nothing inherently wrong with gore, but when used as excessively as it is in Gladiator, it becomes monotonous and loses its power. Also, the constant cutting from one blurry camera to another makes it almost impossible to follow the action. And the action itself seems clumsy at best, allowing us to appreciate the skill of Jackie Chan movies, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, and Rob Roy.

If the dream sequences and special effects are efforts to raise Gladiator to the level of epic filmmaking, then Joaquin Phoenix’s Commodus is the movie’s attempt to be a character study, as well. I suppose Commodus is meant to be a complex villain who obsesses over the throne and his sister. I see him less as a troubled man and more of a male, Roman version of Cher in Clueless: Commodus and Cher are both spoiled, they both chase after their siblings, and they both have whiny lines like, “Who are they to lecture me?!” and “I want to do something for humanity!” If you can’t figure out which character says which line, then either my criticism is correct, or you’ve seen Clueless or Gladiator too many times.

I have no problem with troubled, perverse characters like Commodus. I do have a problem with movies like Gladiator, which tries to gain our attention by exploiting our sensitivities to incest. This is not to say that a bizarre character needs to be explained: movies like Happiness and The War Zone treat incest as a matter-of-fact, urgent problem that resists any explanation. But Gladiator is not a matter-of-fact or urgent movie, and Commodus the incest-minded, spoiled brat is a pointless distraction.

I could go on and on about Gladiator. I could say how the only reason Djimon Hounsou has a role is so that people can say, “Hey, it’s the slave guy from Amistad!” And I also could complain about how incredibly annoying Spencer Treat Clark is as Lucilla’s son. And I could mention Titus the Gladiator’s introduction to the Coliseum, which sounds like it should be followed by the phrase “Let’s get ready to rumble!!!” But I'll stop myself now.

It baffles me how Gladiator, which I fear will win Best Picture Oscar in March, was respected by so many. I’m not shocked by the critics’ praises as much as I am by those of average moviegoers, who have incredibly high standards for special effects due to films like The Matrix and Jurassic Park. And yet audiences marveled at Gladiator’s see-through computer graphics and fight scenes.

I suppose it’s only right that I say a few good things about Gladiator. First, I respect the performances of Russell Crowe and Connie Nielsen, whose characters are too strong and clearheaded to be in a movie so pretentious. Second, the film earned Russell Crowe the respect he deserves for films like L.A. Confidential and The Insider. And third, any movie that manages to make a funny joke about gay — deserves some attention.