Columnist

Not much is known about the upcoming trade talks in Quebec City at the end of this month. But judging
from the massive numbers of police that city officials are deploying, one doubts that the Free Trade Agreement for the
Americas will produce anything of use to anyone but opportunistic politicians and large corporations. Approximately 6,000 police officers will deny
protesters all access to negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement for the Americas (FTAA). The protesters are sure to be
blamed for being overly violent as the police officers spray them indiscriminately with pepper spray. The press will ignore most
of the actual agreement and take lovely pictures of anarchy symbols and enraged youth. But in the end, nothing much
will actually be learned about the FTAA itself.

In memory of Senor Figueroa

In loving memory of Dr. Ramon Figueroa, I’d like to say a few words, not for his sake, but on
behalf of the grieving community left in his wake. I speak for a Davidson community stunned and hurt by the
loss of one of its most beloved and valued members. But I want to remind you all of one of
the many lessons Senor Figueroa taught to not only his students but to this entire college community. In Mexico, the
dead and the living freely interact. On the Day of the Dead, family and friends dead and alive get together
to eat and celebrate the inevitability of death and the holistic experience of life. And since Dr. Figueroa is primarily
responsible for bringing widespread awareness of Dia de los Muertos to this campus, it seems only right that we grieve
his premature departure in full consciousness of the ideas behind this celebration. Although we feel cheated that he was taken
from us too soon, we must celebrate his life and our lives with him. We must feast and tell stories
about our lives together, how much we’ve learned, how much we’ve grown. We should have a big bilingual multicultural festival
in the graveyard on North Main Street or better yet, in the basement of the Guest House, room 06.

But I’m sorry. While I’m aware of the fatalism infused into the holiday, I cannot help but to ask why.
Why was he taken from us, an educator whose academic life exemplified Davidson College’s professed primary purpose, “to assist students
in developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service”? I need answers. We as
a community need to know why we’ve lost such an integral part of our academic lives, not for his sake
(he is no doubt headed for a better place) but for our own.

This is a eulogy for the late Professor Ramon Figueroa whose Davidson pedagogical life came to a premature end with
the recent decision to deny him tenure. We, his supporters, have decided to celebrate his life at Davidson but we
find its termination impossible to accept without answers.

*Dr. Figueroa supporters can pick up buttons and pins distributed in Chambers and the Union.

James Hampton ‘01

Challenge to students: push Take Back the Night past capacity

I’m a big enough person that I can admit when I am wrong, and I might well have been wrong
about some of my accusations in last week’s editorial. Although the turnout for Nancy Hulse’s presentation was disappointing, the crowd
at Take Back the Night gave me hope in the Davidson community. I saw over three hundred students show up
to hear their peers speak their experiences with rape, sexual assault, and physical abuse. My heart broke every time another
speaker approached the podium, teary-eyed in telling her story. I have been on both sides of that podium. I know
the strength and courage it takes to stand behind that microphone and share such an intimate and horrible detail with
strangers. Those speakers from last week, and the speakers before them, and those still to speak, these men and women
are my personal heroes. They are strong, they have been wrongfully hurt, but they will survive. I could not be
any prouder of all of them, and of all the audience members.

Then again, I’m still a little disappointed with my fellow students. I walked into class the next morning and it
was the first time in three years that I did not see even one red string around anyone’s wrist, signaling
that none of them had gone to Take Back the Night. Of course, as one friend pointed out, that’s not
surprising when our own school newspaper places an article about online registration on the front page over Rape Awareness week
activities, or a picture of Bobby Vagt on a bike over the Vagina Monologues, which sold out Love Auditorium. Well,
that’s not a good enough reason for me. There is no good reason for not being at Take Back the
Night. Davidson claims it’s a family, yet we are not supporting our brothers and sisters during a painful and hurtful
time. Our administration claims to support Rape Awareness week, yet their presence was minimal during all the week’s activities. And
many faculty members seemed more concerned about the destruction of one book in the Library than the destruction of a
person’s life.a challenge to the Davidson community. There are over sixteen hundred students and over two hundred faculty and staff
on this campus. Ideally, I would like to see eighteen hundred people at Take Back the Night next year. Realistically,
I know that won’t happen. So instead, I challenge you next year to fill Chambers Gallery so full that Take
Back the Night cannot be held there the following year. I challenge you to change attitudes about rape on campus.
Rape Awareness Committee. Become a First Responder. Most of all, I challenge you to end the darkness of rape, sexual
assault, and abuse so our children will never have to take back any night.

Amanda Mordavsky ‘02
President, Rape Awareness Committee

Skull wanders off

I was happy to see the article last week about the skeleton in Old Chambers’ columns. As mentioned in the
article, the skull was a gift for Pi Kappa Alpha. We proudly displayed Icabod, as he came to be known,
in our basement for many years. During Spring Frolics in 1997, Icabod disappeared without a trace. He was drinking that
day, and the beer may have gone to his head rendering him incapable of heading off an attacker. He also
always wanted to visit California and, with his headstrong ways, may have ventured out on his own. If anyone has
any information that permits us to make headway in our investigation, there will be a handsome reward.

Michael Clifton ‘02,
President, Pi Kappa Alpha

Join the ©

And there is a simple reason for all of this - the FTAA has been negotiated entirely in secret. As
of now, only corporate representatives have been able to provide input for this document. A full text of the agreement
has still not been made public. In an effort to placate consumer, labor, and environmental groups, negotiators established the “Committee
of Government Representatives.” But according to the Public Citizen, “the Committee is little more than a mailbox.” Negotiations usually just
toss out the concerns of citizen’s groups. Maude Barlow of the Council of Canadians said that despite being “consulted” by
government officials, “the draft comes back to us and it’s like we’ve never spoken.” (The Ottawa Citizen, 4-2-2001). These negotiations
and the trade agreement that is sure to follow them are clearly anti-democratic. Clear steps have been taken to restrict
access and input to the FTAA. By shutting out important arguments from consumer, labor, and environmental organizations, the voice of
only the rich and powerful can be heard. The result is a trade agreement of which the majority of people
governed by it have neither heard nor to which they have consented.

From talks with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the Public Citizen did learn some of the details of
the FTAA. It contains a series of harmful provisions that all citizens should be aware of. First, the FTAA takes
aim at public services provided by governments, such as education, environmental services, energy, and public utilities. Reports of corporate cost-cutting
resulting in the degradation of services are sure to be the result. Another harmful provision is the “investor-to-state” provision that
allows corporations to sue governments for inhibiting their profits with laws that protect health, safety, and the environment. Not only
is this one of the most ridiculous and shameful efforts by corporations to promote their profits over human lives, but
it’s also a proven disaster. The North American Free Trade Agreement contains a similar provision, called Chapter 11. Under Chapter
11, the U.S.-based Ethyl Corporation sued Canada to pay $13 million in damages and drop its ban on the dangerous
gasoline additive MMT, according to the Public Citizen.

And I thought that these agreements had our best interests in mind! Fortunately, corporations may not get all of what
they want in the Free Trade Agreement for the Americas. Protesters may hamper negotiations in Quebec as they did in
Seattle, forcing negotiators to listen to the opposition. And individual nations must have these agreements accepted at home. It is
likely that in the U.S. some meaningful labor, environmental, and human rights provisions will be included in the agreement if
it is to pass in Congress. Hopefully citizen groups will keep the heat on the FTAA and its implementation will
not prove to be costly for the people of North and South America.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-In-Chief: Aaron Houck, Richard Vinson
Business Manager: Peter Clark
Copy Editors: David Johnston, Anna Ryan
News Editor: Jessica Meis
Features Editor: Matt Whited
Opinion Editor: Mase Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian
