. By Erin RAFFETY Special Contributor

When we were little, my sisters and I, like any kids our age, approached the holiday season with great zeal.
As a result of our parents, we learned the art of gift-giving very early in life. Because my mom had
spent countless hours finger-painting and doodling with us in the basement, at Christmas time, my sisters and I converted the
usual damp, cluttered dungeon into our very own Santa’s workshop. We worked feverishly like little elves, preparing only the best
handcrafted, glued, glittery gifts for our parents and one another. Often this bustling basement world of excitement only heightened the
anticipation for my sisters and me; we often had trouble holding out until Christmas morning to present each other with
the fruits of love’s labors.

When I became a bit older, I remember asking my dad whether he liked store-bought gifts or homemade gifts better.
Not surprisingly, he answered that he preferred the homemade gifts because he knew we’d worked so hard on them, and
they were each special and unique. I felt he’d made the right choice. While misshapen ornaments often dotted our tree
and haphazardly nailed together, brightly painted wooden contraptions lined our mantel, Christmas at our house was beautiful and happy to
everyone involved.

Perhaps because my parents never discouraged, or always encouraged my creativity, or perhaps because I’m living on the arts hall
here at Davidson, my creative juices always get flowing as the holiday season approaches. It’s not that I don’t pine
away for certain items in store windows or love the softness of Christmas sweaters fresh out of their boxes, but
I have a certain appreciation for the lopsided creations of my youth. Even more, I see Christmas time as a
time of creation, of gift-giving, down to its very core, a time to relish the beauty in our world in
all its forms.

Thus, I have taken it upon myself to recall some of the gifts of my youth and others lent to
me by friends and family. Though invariably corny and traditional, these gift ideas are approachable and inexpensive, and they make
people smile. They are geared toward parents and family, friends and loved ones, and toward the Christmas celebration, but can
be adapted to suit just about anybody anywhere. Read them over and try some out; have fun and make something
unique for the people you love. They’ll probably never forget this gift...ever.

Christmas isn’t Christmas without the decorations, without the red and green, the tree, the lights, and the snow. Christmas lights
line the streets and wreaths are placed on the doors. An angel that my sister fashioned from styrofoam plates and
sequins in elementary school still adorns our tree at home. Perhaps one of the oldest Christmas gifts is the ornament.
When I was a kid, we went outside and collected pine cones and frosted them with white paint and glitter,
attaching a red ribbon to hang them by. I suggest making ornaments for each person in your family, highlighting their
hobbies or interests. Besides nature-inspired ornaments, plastic transparent bulb ornaments are relatively cheap and can be filled or decorated with
seashells, ribbon, or baby blocks. Try writing each person’s name and the year on the bulb and filling it with
cute personal items.

If the ornaments sound a little too complicated, stick to paper chains. Instead of threading crumbling popcorn onto a faulty
string, grab red, white, and green construction paper, cut, and link strips together for quick and easy holiday garland. Grab
a tough piece of paper and some markers or crayons and go wild. Be colorful and creative; embellish your cards
with ribbon or glitter, and include personal messages inside to friends and family. If drawing scares you, find an old
eraser and carve Christmas designs or...

By Derek Lou Arts and Living Editor

A blind date, a beer, some good conversation. A second date: dinner, some more conversation, not as good as the
first. No third date. It happens often enough: you meet someone, things go well, and then they don’t go well.
So begins Rebecca Gilman’s “Boy Gets Girl,” her award-winning play opening today in the Black Box Performance Space of Cunningham.

The girl is Theresa, played by Beth Gardner. Things are going well: she’s living in the big city, working for
a popular magazine, covering the Yankees and the occasional interview with a soft-porn czar, played by Cahit Ece. One day,
Theresa meets Tony (Parker Dixon) for a beer, and the two have dinner together. And then things don’t go well.
Actually, they go really badly. It’s at this point that “Boy Gets Girl” descends into unsettling territory. Tony’s interest in
Theresa becomes obsessive. He shows up unannounced and sends flowers, and it is clear that he’s more than a nuisance.
He bestows on Theresa paranoia — perhaps she sees him following her on the street — and the constant fear
of physical and sexual violence.

“Boy Gets Girl” makes its regional debut at Davidson, and this production is only the play’s third: it initially played
in Chicago and subsequently enjoyed a hit run in New York earlier this year. Having an undergraduate student, Bill Neville,
as a director is, therefore, even more impressive. Neville finds the play especially relevant to life on a college campus,
an environment in which stalking and other forms of predatory violence are present. These fears, says Neville, are “thoughts that
people can never completely turn off,” and the ideas raised by the play “resonated with conversations with [his] female friends.”

On a similar note, “Boy Gets Girl” is unabashedly biased. “It is only half the story,” says Neville. We only
see and hear Theresa’s side. It’s not that she is the victim and Tony the predator; rather, we see an
unflinching account of how these events alter the course of her life. Accordingly, post-show discussions will follow tonight’s and tomorrow’s
performances. The cast, director, Georgia Ringle, and campus police officer Trisha Warren will lead the discussion. Also, a faculty-led, lunchtime
forum entitled “Fear in Literature” will take place on November 30.

It’s interesting that Gilman’s work — including “Spinning into Butter,” a popular play on race and racism — has been
described as theatrical, elevated Lifetime Television. Lawrence Frascella says, “This harrowing story of a stalker is far richer than the
stuff you get ad nauseam on Lifetime.” And Neville himself believes that Gilman “asks you to think without stepping onto
a moralistic high horse...It’s potentially cliched drama turned instead into worthwhile plays.”

“Boy Gets Girl,” also starring Marshay Hall, Thomas Mills, Christina Ritchie, and Chris Walters, runs from November 28 to December
1 at 7:30 p.m. There also will be a matinee on December 2 at 2:00 p.m. All shows are $4,
and tickets may be purchased at the door. Due to the size of the Black Box, it is advised to
arrive early.words into it to create your very own stamp. Grab green and red ink pads and stamp your designs
onto the cards and the envelopes for a personal touch. For a useful pre-Christmas present, salvage an old box or
paint can and adorn it with seasonal decoration. Label it “Card box” or “Card can” and present it to your
parents as a space for holiday cards from previous years or cards that do not fit on the mantel to
be placed. Place your card receptacle on your coffee table to encourage friends and relatives to sift through the season’s
greetings.

Make sure to save the Christmas cards, too. My Auntie always keeps her cards around until next year when she’s
wrapping presents. Then she cuts off the fronts of the cards, punches a hole into them, and strings them onto
the ribbon, scrawling a message on the back. When my sisters and I were little, we always made my dad
“paperweights,” or rocks we had splattered with paint. Years later, I bet many moms and dads still have use for
paperweights on the desks in their offices. Old cans also make great pencil holders. Rip off the labels on the
soup cans and replace them with your own strips of paper. Consider scanning on pictures of yourself and your siblings,
or writing your mom or dad a personal message that they’ll rejoice to see each morning at work. What mom
or dad can’t use more photos for their office?

Place yourself in a frame and box it up as a gift. Even better, find some of your old artwork
or a story you wrote as a child, and frame it for the office or the kitchen. Buy a plain,
flat frame and consider gluing on childhood toys or knickknacks that are currently collecting dust (i.e. baby blocks, crayons, and
matchbox cars). You can glue on puzzle pieces or make a collage from magazine pictures. Original drawings with original frames
are one-of-a-kind.

Now I am no chef, but I believe the holidays make it possible for anyone to dabble in the culinary
arts. My twin sister spent a good deal of her winter break last year baking rum balls and fudge for
her entire cross-country team. When she finished, she boxed the goodies up and shipped them off to all her friends
(packages = every college student’s dream!). Not only was this gift popular and tasty, it really wasn’t all that difficult.
Consider trying to make a new fudge, like one with a hint of raspberry, or pick up some marzipan and
investigate the German art of using a bit of food coloring to create realistic-looking miniature vegetables and fruits. Christmas sweets
are great for grandmothers and neighbors, friends and family.

If you feel like your family is starved for Christmas traditions, create a new one. Put cookies and milk out
for Santa because your grandparents think you still believe in him. Light the advent wreath and read scripture verses aloud.
Find a special way that you can share the season with those you love. Find a way to honor Jesus’s
birth and to appreciate those around you. After all, your words and actions during the holiday season of celebration will
mean more than any gift you can give!

At the movies: Harry, monsters, and anesthetics
By DEREK LOU
Arts & Living Editor

I’ve been reduced to pure cinematic pleasure. Only weeks ago did I toss Mulholland Drive around and around in my
head. (It’s still playing at Birkdale if you feel the need for confusion.) I’ve been on a no-brainer kick, revisiting
last year’s simple delights, movies like High Fidelity and Wonder Boys. There’s something special in those films: they’re not technological
triumphs, not emotional dramas, just happy films that create circumstances and characters that we believe and care about.

Of course, this article is about no such films. We haven’t been blessed with any recently. However, there is some
entertaining, “simple” stuff out there. “Entertaining” is the key word here. There’s nothing profound, nothing too flashy, just good, old-fashioned,
unadulterated fun.

Why not help Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone get to the $200 million a little faster? Hopefully, we can
dismount our college high horses long enough, two hours and twenty-two minutes to be exact, to give the movie a
shot. It’s not quite Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory or The Wizard of Oz, but it’s pretty damn close.
We meet Harry, so unloved that his aunt and uncle force him to live in a closet under a staircase.
The son of wizards, he’s soon taken to Hogwarts, a boarding school for budding possessors of supernatural powers. We sit
in on potion and flying lessons, lull a three-headed, giant dog to sleep, and witness a Quidditch match that’s more
exciting than any car chase or fight sequence in The Matrix. And then there’s a game of chess with jaw-dropping
special effects.

Despite its technical strengths and the charm of its actors, Harry Potter doesn’t create the magic of other fantasy films,
the aforementioned Willy Wonka and Oz in addition to The Never-Ending Story and Pee-Wee’s Big Adventure. And I don’t think
it’s because I lack the naivety of a child moviegoer: just a few years ago the Babe films — and
maybe we should include Being John Malkovich — generated that indefinable quality I’ve been calling magic.

Like Harry, Novocaine is just a few steps away from being truly special. It’s part screwball comedy, part film noir
about a dentist who sort of does something wrong, but not really. I'll tread carefully with my descriptions as not
to give away any surprises. Steve Martin gives a performance that resembles his deadpan work in David Mamet’s caper The
Spanish Prisoner, while the situations surrounding his character are more at home in the screwball Bowfinger. Martin is Dr. Sangster,
a successful dentist with a perfect practice and perfect hygienist who doubles as his fiancée (Laura Dern). And then Susan
Ivy (Helena Bonham Carter) walks in for a root canal. She scams him for some painkillers, and then scams a
pharmacist for some more. And I can’t say anymore without revealing too much.

Writer-director David Atkins fills Novocaine with satisfying jokes, both pertinent to the story and extraneous: the film’s funniest moment —
it involves watching a couple engage in some foreplay — has absolutely nothing to do with the film. Also, there
are a few loose ends hanging about at the end of the movie. At ninety-five minutes, Novocaine feels much shorter.
Perhaps the cliché about time and fun is true.

Lastly, I'd like to mention Monsters, Inc. Disney’s team at Pixar has created another clever family film. It lacks the
sharp edge of other family movies like Babe: Pig in the City and Shrek. Also missing is the sentimentality of
Toy Story 2 that appealed to adults. Instead, Monsters, Inc. is chock-full of screwball comedy and endearing characters. And finally,
we have the definitive explanation for the Loch Ness Monster and Big Foot.
