Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Son Catiege on se signed to educate, enlighten and empower people to respect the past, the show dramatically portrays the
dream of freedom, justice, and equality for all. Her free public performance begins at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room
of the College Union. Call 894-2651 for more information.

Edmonson and Levering lecture on the Cold War — Davidson College history professors Earl Edmonson and Ralph Levering will give
a presentation on Wednesday, March 14, entitled, “The Cold War: U.S. and Soviet Perspectives.” Call 894-2039 for more information.

Davidson wind quintet performs first concert — The Davidson College music department presents the inaugural concert of the college’s woodwind
quintet on Wednesday, March 14. The free recital, which will include chamber music featuring various student soloists, begins at 8
p.m. in Hodson Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Call 894-2357 for more information.

“Edgar Allan Poe” comes to Davidson — Actor John Astin, best known for his role as Gomez in the original
“Addams Family” TV series, will perform “Edgar Allan Poe: Once Upon a Midnight” on Thursday, March 15. Astin holds the
Zachary T. Scott Family Chair in Theatre and Drama at the University of Texas at Austin, and is author of
The Spirit of Poe. The performance begins at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union Building. A
reception will follow, co-sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program for International Studies and the Davidson College chapter of Amnesty International.
Call 894-2170 for more information.

Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas premiers — Irene Weiss will direct a workshop production of “The Autobiography of Alice B.
Toklas” on Friday, March 16. The performance begins at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. Call
894-2170 for more information.

By Timothy Cook, News Editor — The Patterson Court Judiciary Board announced Monday evening intentions to form a committee to
revise several by-laws that govern its operation procedures. Board Chair Mary Kat White ‘03 assured that rumors that the J-Board
had voted to nullify itself were false, even after being posted on the agenda as such. The J-Board is the
committee that links Patterson Court and the Public Safety Office and is the body in charge of disciplining the fraternities
and eating houses for PCC violations.

The by-laws in question pertain to the amount of days the Public Safety and the J-Board are allotted to inform
a house of a violation. Currently, the time is five days, but due to excessive paperwork, the time may change
to seven days. The question of biases during hearings is also under scrutiny. J-Board advisors who act as prosecutors during
hearings also often serve as defense advisors. The new plan is to train more members from each house to act
as their own defense advisors and to be aware of all PCC by-laws and restrictions. In essence, a house will
have its own lawyer from within.

Cohen, from page I — President Robert Vagt was enthusiastic about the lecture, commenting, “We need to continue to speckle
the campus not only with speakers of note but with speakers who have current insight.” Given the changes in foreign
policy evident in the new administration, Vagt found Cohen’s visit especially timely and relevant. He added that he hopes the
lecture will inspire further discussions on campus.

---the house. The PCC also discussed its involvement with the SGA Vamanos Van. Senator Kevin Epps delivered a presentation asking
for PCC to supply drivers starting next year. Each house would take two weekends a semester and give three drivers
who will be paid at nearly $60 per night. The Vamanos Van is a shuttle service offered by the Student
Government Association that takes students to a variety of off-campus places like the movie theatre and restaurants in Charlotte. Also,
four out of 20 red bikes have been damaged almost to the point where salvaging is unlikely after one week
of service. PCC is taking an active stride to keep the bike program active and keep intoxicated and irresponsible students
from damaging them any further.

The lecture “will spark debate on the campus.” Cohen will attend a dinner in Charlotte on Friday, April 20. He
will present the Wearn Lecture on Saturday, April 21 at 11 am in Love Auditorium in conjunction with Alumni Weekend.

Alcohol policy violation 2/24/01
Officers and EMS responded to Little Hall to investigate a possible alcohol poisoning complaint. Upon arrival, officers found a subject
in the bathroom vomiting. EMS examined the subject and determined there was no need to transport to the hospital for
further examination. The subject was cited for underage consumption of an alcoholic beverage. This incident will be forwarded to the
judicial officer for review.

Damage to property & trespass 2/24/01
Officer responded to Akers Hall to investigate a damaged property complaint. The complainant advised that she observed a subject enter
the room without permission and urinate on several items that were located on a desk. Investigation is pending.

Damage to property 2/23/01
Officer responded to CoHo eating-house to investigate a damaged property complaint. Upon arrival, the officer observed a broken window located
at the rear of the house. The approximate value of the damage is $75. Investigation is pending.

Recovered property 2/22/01
Previously reported stolen bicycle was recovered near Watts Hall and returned to the owner.

Larceny of a bicycle 2/20/01
Complainant stated that an unknown subject(s) removed without consent his unlocked bicycle from the bike rack located in front of
Watts Hall. The bicycle is black and navy in color with a striped seat cover. Investigation is pending.

Vehicle accident 2/19/01
Complainant stated that her parked vehicle sustained damage to the left front quarter panel between the dates of 1/16/01 –
2/2/01. The vehicle was parked on campus and in the town of Davidson during this time frame. The owner of
the other vehicle failed to leave contact information. The approximate cost to repair the damage is $800.

Unlawful entry 2/19/01
Unknown person(s) entered the laundry building without force and removed a roll of pennies and 7 Davidson College departmental credit
cards without consent. Investigation is pending.

Injured person 2/19/01
Officer responded to the southwest corner of Belk Residence Hall to investigate an injured person complaint. The victim stated that
she stumbled while walking causing her to fall and injure her ankle. The victim refused medical attention.

Compiled by Marlon Lynch,
Assistant Director of Campus Police
