_The Davinsonian_

By Drew PRICKETT
Staff Writer

After nearly a week off due to the temporary shutdown of athletic events, the Davidson women’s volleyball team returned to competition with three Southern Conference matches.

The Wildcats (4-6, 1-2) are vying for an

“[The team] is going through a rebuilding stage. It’s a tough situation because we’re so used to winning.”
—Jennifer Ortega ’02

unprecedented third-straight regular season and SoCon championships, but struggled to find consistency this past week.

The ’Cats fell in their SoCon opener on the road to a strong Furman team (30-21, 30-22, and 30-17), then cruised to an easy victory against The Citadel (30-16, 30-13, 30-28) before losing a hard-fought battle to the College of Charleston (26-30, 30-21, 30-27, 30-25).

Senior outside hitter Jacqueline Ortega led the way in the Furman match, tallying 15 kills

Outside hitter Kristen Higbee ‘05 leaps to spike one home.

and 9 digs. Ortega also displayed her prowess against The Citadel with 14 kills and seven digs, while her sister, Jennifer, was right behind with 10 kills. Sophomore setter Nicole Tonelli posted 34 assists and also registered four aces in the win.

Against the College of Charleston, Tonelli once again paced the team, handing out 40 assists and supplying 13 digs in an intensely competitive match. The teams split the first

Lindsey Bebee

two games, and were tied at 15 in the third when Charleston pulled ahead on an ace, never to relinquish the lead. Game 4 was just as close, but the Cougars eventually put the match away, 30-25.

After opening SoCon action with a win and two losses, the team finds itself in an unfamiliar position: below the .500 mark in conference competition. Furthermore, the Furman match proved to be the first time in

four years that the ’Cats lost a league match, and the Charleston loss was the first to the Cougars in seven meetings.

When asked how the team morale is, Jacqueline Ortega said that it has not disappeared yet. “We are searching for it right now. I look at our team and I see talent, and the fact that we’re not winning is frustrating.”

Ortega also pointed out that the new rally scoring has had an effect on the Wildcats. Instead of winning points on a team’s serve, after a “sideout,” a team can win a point when the opposition is serving. As a result, the teams play to 30 points in each game.

“We start off strong and end strong, but [points] 17-24 are tough to fight through,” says Ortega.

Sister Jennifer also has hopes of accomplishing another championship season, but notes, “[The team] is going through a rebuilding stage. It’s a tough situation because we’re so used to winning.”

Despite the current frustration, Jennifer insists the team needs to take the season one game at a time, peak at the right moment, and be champs for a third straight season: “I am excited about this year. It’s our last chance (as seniors) to prove that we are number one.”

Tough break for field hockey

By SARAH NOLAN
Staff Writer

“Success is not measured in the result, but in the progress. We were very successful in our progress this weekend.” Head coach Christy Morgan said it best, describing her field hockey team’s two losses to Ursinus College and Providence College this weekend. These are only the second and third

losses of the team, bringing their overall record to 4-3.

The Wildcats started off their weekend on Saturday against Ursinus. The game began as a battle for ball control, which UC won, netting their first goal with 24:13 minutes to go in the first half.

The ’Cats fought back hard, though, until they were rewarded with their first goal of the game, delivered by Maggie McPherson ’05 off of an assist from Alex Rogers ’03. This was McPherson’s second goal of the season.

Davidson ended the first half with an opportunity to put in another point. As the clock ran out, the Wildcats had a penalty corner, but couldn’t connect and ended the first half tied at 1.

The second half was mostly defensive for Davidson. Just shy of ten minutes into the half, junior Jessica Barton jumped in front of the cage to save the high UC shot with her stick. Her high stick resulted in a penalty stroke, which keeper Cate Schenning ’05 rejected, keeping the score at a tie.

UC came back to score with 14:50 to go, and Davidson never recovered, ending the game with a final score of 2-1. Davidson finished with 13 shots, six penalty corners, and seven saves from Schenning. Defensively, the Wildcats fought through 12 corners.

After suffering Saturday’s defeat, the Wildcats still came out strong against Providence on Sunday afternoon. Providence notched a goal at the start when Jen Chin took a shot less than ten minutes into the match.

Davidson made it through the rest of the half successfully, denying Providence’s attempts at scoring. The Wildcats never made up the early goal, fighting through a scoreless second half. Davidson ended with five shots and six corners. Goalkeepers Schenning and Sarah Nolan ’05 split the cage and combined for seven saves.

The ’Cats are confident that they will come out of these losses a stronger team, and will look to avenge the defeats next weekend when they travel to Missouri to take on Southwest Missouri State and St. Louis.

Bring this ad in to any of our locations and...

$6 OFF AN AUTO PHYSICAL AT GRIFFIN BROTHERS!

Regularly priced at $39.95. Applies to most vehicles; up to 5 qts. of Castrol oil. Includes...
- Oil Change
- Filter
- Complete Safety Inspection

GRIFFIN BROTHERS TIRE SALES, INC.

Spring Break with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator