e @ ALENDA LU
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 6

J-Board, Dean orders Kappa Sigma dry for year
Committee finds fraternity guilty on three of four charges, gives punishment of one-year alcohol probation

By Timothy Cook
Managing Editor

The brothers of Kappa Sigma will have to find new ways to party for the rest of this year. Last
Wednesday, the Judicial Board ruled that the fraternity will serve the rest of this academic year as a dry house
for both on and off-campus functions, for the charges of serving alcohol to a minor, playing drinking games, and serving
alcohol from a common container, in this case punch. The house was found not guilty on the charge of serving
alcohol to an intoxicated person.

The charges spawned from an impromptu party last month in which a first-year female student was taken to the hospital
after attending the party. Punch was being served in a large tub while people were playing “Beirut,” or “beer pong,”
in the upstairs main room.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley has the final say in matters of discipline on the court but he concurred with
the J-Board’s decision and issued his approval on the Thursday after the hearing. Shandley could not be reached for comment.
The J-Board is the judiciary committee

IN MEMORIAM

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

The cause of death is not yet available for Virginia Logan, a Davidson junior who died early Saturday morning in
her off-campus apartment. A medical examiner told College President Bobby Vagt that “nothing was apparent,” but an autopsy was performed
Monday. As of Tuesday night, the results were unavailable.

Logan was transported by paramedics from her apartment at Davidson Landing, located directly across Interstate 77 from the school, to
Lake Norman Medical Center, where she was pronounced dead. Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley were notified of the
death just after 7 a.m. on Saturday. Vagt then called Logan’s family to deliver the news. Following school procedure, the
student counseling center and Residence Life Office were notified and asked to provide help to students in need. Shandley also
circulated a campus-wide voice mail, informing students that Logan had died of unknown causes.

Vagt said this isn’t the first death to occur since he became president in July 1997, but the first for
an active student during a school year. He said he has spoken to the family about the possibility of a
campus memorial service sometime in the coming days or weeks. A funeral service will be held on Thursday at 11
a.m. at St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Ivy, Va., near the family’s home in Charlottesville.

Logan had not declared a major, but was passionate about art. Art professor Herb Jackson, Logan’s faculty adviser, remembers a
quiet girl who held a deep appreciation for the beauty of nature. “She was a very special person with immense
ability,” he said. “At the same time, she possessed a very private side to her.Personality, such that many people did
not have the chance to know her. Had she lived, she would have contributed a great deal to the aesthetic
life of our campus. “Virginia liked to paint images of trees—their heads held high and their roots growing deep. I
will always remember her that way.”

Comprised of a member from each house on Patterson Court (except for the Black Student Coalition) that hears disciplinary cases
before it reaches the administration. The panel hears from both a student solicitor and a defense counsel about all the
facts surrounding the case and then sends its verdict to Shandley for approval. Patterson Court Council Sergeant-at-Arms Mary Kat White
’02, who acts as a mediator for the J-Board, said that even though the board decides issues on a case-by-case
basis, it knew that drinking games were being stamped out by the administration. J-Board panel member Trip Young ’03, who
was honor-bound not to release the ruling until Shandley’s final verdict and the board gave the go-ahead, said, “We issued
the ruling to show that the Court doesn’t need alcohol to function.” Patterson Court Council President Matthew Arbuckle ’02 was
pleased that Shandley accepted the J-Board’s recommendation.

“I think that it does help relations between the Dean of Students and Patterson Court because it means that he
trusts our decision making and our maturity level in disciplining our own,” Arbuckle said. Kappa Sigma President Grant West ’02
agrees that the ruling was fair and that it could have been worse because of the seriousness of the violations.
“I think we messed up and the guys [of Kappa Sigma] know that we messed up.” The incident, which took
place on the night of September 17, was not the first time that Kappa Sig had been caught playing drinking
games in the house this year. “We saw it coming,” said West, who sees drinking games as a real problem
on the court. “There are groups within each house where some say follow the rules and there are others who
say don’t. One thing I have learned…”

See Kappa Sig, page 5

---

Bill Giduz

THE WORLD’S LARGEST WILDCAT. Davidson’s latest addition arrived on campus last week with the help of Physical Plant worker Ron
Shirley (left). The bronze statue, weighing 1,500 pounds and measuring 11 feet, was donated by Irwin Belk ’45, and will
be installed in front of Baker Sports Complex later this year. A dedication ceremony is scheduled for this fall.

Renowned landscape photographer Ken Duncan will visit Davidson on Oct. 17 to promote his latest collection of panoramic photography, America
Wide. See Arts & Living, page 6, for full coverage.

---

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-5
Some students are displeased with recent price increases in the Union Cafe. See story, page 2.

Arts & Living 6
Chef Martha returns with another delectable delight.

Perspectives 7-8
Bricks, bricks everywhere. Why all the bricks? See story, page 9.

Sports 9-12
Football falls to Morehead State, 28-17. See page 12.
