‘Take a walk in their cleats...’ - student responds to criticism of athletic coverage

I read with frustration Jimmy Swansbrough’s letter last week criticizing The Davidsonian’s sports editors for their relatively sparse coverage of
a variety of minor sports such as wrestling, golf, cross country, and track. As a former editor—as well as sports
editor—of The Davidsonian, I feel compelled to respond in the editors’ defense.

Jimmy raises some valid points. A large number of Davidson students do compete at the Division-I level, dedicating countless hours
to fulfilling their dreams of collegiate athletics. In a more perfect world, every Davidson student performing some sort of meritorious
or valorous work (on or off the athletic field) would be splashed across the pages of the student paper. But
what Jimmy failed to realize in his “I could do your job better” sniping is the fundamental fact that The
Davidsonian struggles with the same constraints as do so many other Davidson institutions (including athletics): a scarcity of resources.

Davidson College is as difficult a place as any from which to produce a college newspaper. Our newsroom and resources
pale in comparison to many a high school paper. (Oddly enough, The Libertas—an alternative paper that refuses to provide its
own revenue through the selling of ads and has no responsibility to cover campus events of service to the college—receives
more money per edition from the ATC than does The Davidsonian). But money is the least of The Davidsonian’s woes:
the true challenge lies in finding committed and talented writers.

I can think of few more difficult pools from which to draft student reporters than Davidson. We are a small
campus body whose students are overextended in countless directions: 14 compete in Division-I athletics themselves, countless others are committed to
a wondrous array of campus leadership and service activities, and each of us is consumed with an academic course load
that produces, according to a Princeton Review survey, the most studious campus population in the nation.

Now, the one thing you would think that Davidson has going for it is the talent and productivity of its
student body—but hold on. Most anyone who’s worked for The Davidsonian—as well as many professors with whom I have spoken—will
contend that Davidson is woefully deplete of journalistic talent and interest. One major reason is the relative absence of journalistic
studies from our curriculum: causing any student with a sincere interest in the field to almost immediately discount Davidson from
their college search process. Being a gifted and creative student often has little bearing on a person’s ability to report
and write journalistically.

As a sports editor seeking to assign articles to a student reporter that likely has little interest in journalism for
journalism’s sake, it quickly becomes quite difficult to cover many of the important—but less alluring—campus beats. If there’s a student
on campus who wants to go stand out in the woods on a Saturday morning to cover a cross country
meet, I sure haven’t met him yet. We can’t pay our writers, so we have little to offer them but
the appeal of big-time Division-I athletics—which explains why multiple writers will flock to the higher-profile sports such as soccer, football,
and basketball.

To further complicate the matter, the disinterest shown by would-be student reporters only reflects the larger issue—that, right or wrong,
the overwhelming majority of our readership is more interested in reading about opposing basketball or football teams than about many
of our own squads. I continue to write a good deal of basketball, and numerous times a day I’m asked
by students, faculty, staff, and townspeople about the prospects of an upcoming game or a recruiting prognosis. I receive emails
from Davidson alumni and fans literally across the country—and even one from Europe this past month—asking about our basketball team.

In a perfect world, as I said earlier, all students would receive the coverage they deserve. But I scoff at
the notion that anyone is entitled to coverage. If no one is willing to write a story, and few are
interested in reading it—it’s not going to make it into the newspaper. This sense of entitlement, may I also add,
seems to come exclusively from small-sport athletes—there are countless and amazing accomplishments that come out of this student body every
week in the classroom and in the community that merit attention, but rarely does the class valedictorian or head of
UCA complain that no one is documenting their every move.

In a flippant, arrogant tone Jimmy wrote last week, “You editors wonder why no one seems to read your paper
each week, right? Here’s a hint: Try writing about Davidson.” That caustic tone is inappropriate, disrespectful of the work these
editors do, and amounts to a sports editor saying, “You runners wonder why no one writes about you every week,
right? Try playing basketball.”

I will concede that cutting and pasting press releases on minor sports is probably not an unreasonable request. It doesn’t
make for the most interesting copy (as press releases are written to simply convey information, not intrigue readership), but is
probably a fair and decent step—one that the editors I’m sure will respond favorably to. In the meantime, Jimmy seems
quite up to date on athletic happenings around the school. Might I humbly suggest that the...Time spent assailing the sports
editors with that letter could have been better spent by picking up a notebook and heading out to cover one
of last week’s fifteen athletic competitions. As you were so quick to point out, they need the writers.

Mike Anderson, Editor Emeritus

Thinking outside the box
By JENN HIGGINS
Special Contributor

The word disability is defined by the American Heritage Dictionary to be a disadvantage or deficiency, especially a physical or
mental impairment that prevents or restricts normal achievement. Many of us probably know people who are disabled intellectually here at
Davidson. Considering there aren’t many of us on this campus, we all know 20 people, but rarely do we think
of one of them as disabled. But that is the reality, five percent of the Davidson student body has been
diagnosed with some sort of learning disability.

These five percent do not look any different or smell any different than the average Davidson student. They fill out
the same application for admission and fulfill the same requirements that were necessary for every incoming student. They read the
book for Orientation Weekend like all in—too much work to do and just enough time to complain about it. Take
this—According to Nance Longworth of the Student Counseling Center, most of the students with learning disabilities that she works with
have placed at or above the 97th percentile for full IQ, which is genius range. Yes, Einstein caliber students need
a little extra time on tests. Does this make any sense?

A brief crash course in the anatomy of a learning disability is as follows. Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano
describes having a learning disability at Davidson as being similar to being color blind. “You can live a long time
and not know you can’t tell red from green until you’re learning to drive!” says Dean Marsicano. “But if you
alert your instructor, the instructor can tell you to ‘Go’ on the bottom light and ‘Stop’ on the top. That’s
the type of accommodation we make for students. They still have to learn how to drive like everyone else.”

And with a solid support network in place, students with learning disabilities are cruising along the Davidson course as well
as to be expected. They are presidents of clubs, star athletes, active students, and community leaders, who for the most
part end up doing as well as everyone else in their respective classes. Organizations like Students for New Learning have
served to promote campus awareness of learning disabilities as well as in guiding those students who “think outside of the
box” towards continued success at Davidson.

In a rigorous college environment such as Davidson, we as a student body should make a conscious effort to act,
instead of react to students who receive accommodations. We should take a second to ponder why, of those 100 or
so students who have learning disabilities here, 30% of them do not know it until they get to Davidson. We
should think about it when we completely forget about that meeting we were supposed to go to or the internship
application deadline that escaped our mind. We may even need to go as far as thinking about the implications when
we make a comment to the effect of “I’m so ADD today!” or “I forgot to take my Ritalin!” Little
do we know we are a week away from knowing some of the answers.

The world’s leading expert on ADD, Dr. Edward Hallowell, will be in Love Auditorium on April 9th, 2001, at 7:30
pm. Come. Learn. Appreciate the challenges that anyone you may know with a learning disability faces each and every day.
Because as former Davidsonian Woodrow Wilson once said, “The man who is swimming against the stream knows the strength of
it.”
