‘The Davidsonian

Wildcat volleyball prepared for Southern Conference

Team prepares for tough competition as it seeks to defend its conference crown

By Drew Prickett
Staff Writer

Davidson’s volleyball team (3-4) had a disappointing week that ended with a glimmer of hope.

On September 4, the Wildcats met the North Carolina Tar Heels in Belk Arena, dropping the match in three hard-fought
games.

Davidson surprised Carolina (3-1) early, taking a quick 8-5 lead in the first game. After tying at 20, 22, and
24, the UNC offense proved too much.

The second and, unquestionably, most exciting game was also the highest scoring. Aggressive defense by Latisha Chapman ’04 and seniors
Jacqueline and Jennifer Ortega kept Davidson within striking distance. As volleyball rules mandate a team must win by at least
two points, the race to 30 ended in a 35-33 win for the Tar Heels.

Davidson lost a 12-6 lead in the third game, eventually dropping 30-16.

This past weekend, the volleyball team traveled to Williamsburg, Virginia to participate in William and Mary’s HI-IQ Classic.

The Wildcats played three games in two days against Virginia, the host Tribe, and Columbia as they prepare to defend
their back-to-back Southern Conference crowns.

The Wildcats lost a close four-game match to Virginia in Friday’s opener, 30-28, 25-30, 30-28, and 30-25. Despite the setback,
coach Tami Darwin must have been impressed with her team’s serving, as the ‘Cats notched an impressive 16 aces in
the match.

Senior Jacqueline Ortega continued her dominating play, tallying her fifth consecutive double-double (12 kills, 11 digs) of the season in
the UVA match.

In the second match of the tournament, William and Mary proved to be too much for the ‘Cats (30-18, 30-28,
and 30-27). The Tribe registered 52 winners to Davidson’s 28, but freshman standout Meredith Lorenz displayed her defensive prowess with
a team-high 14 digs.

Against Columbia, Davidson regained its winning form and quickly disposed of the Lions in three games, 30-25, 30-25, and 30-16.

Senior co-captain Erica Schwartz’s double-double (34 assists, 11 digs) and Jacqueline Ortega’s 13 kills led the Wildcats.

Behind the baseline, the ‘Cats once again displayed their dominance, as juniors Kaitlyn Martin and Roberta Quis each served up
four aces. The team had a total of 12 aces.

The Davidson squad hopes for continued success as they open SoCon competition this week on the road at Wofford before
returning home to Belk Arena to take on Chattanooga and Western Carolina on Friday and Saturday, respectively.

With a dozen home matches left, students have ample opportunity to support the team in its quest to become the
first Southern Conference team in history to win three consecutive regular season and SoCon titles.

By Andrew Leventhal
Special Contributor

The Davidson club rugby team won its first matches of the season in a round-robin tournament at home last Saturday.
Downing both UNC-Greensboro 6-3 and UNC-Charlotte 14-8, the team starts the season 2-0.

Against UNCG, sophomore Dan Pierce scored all the points necessary with two well-placed kicks through the uprights. Pierce, a scrum-half
on the team, later scored nine more points to help defeat UNCC.

Down 8-3 with less than ten minutes left in the 40-minute half, the ‘Cats gathered force behind Pierce’s foot and
senior Skylar Hoffman’s boisterous rallying. After two kicks by Pierce and a 5-point try from Hoffman, the ‘Cats emerged victorious.

The ‘Cats continue on last fall’s undefeated season and an overall year record of 11-2. Coach Paul Kenney hopes to
continue the success, as last year was indeed the best season ever for the team.

The ‘Cats play at home again this Saturday against Wake Forest. The game is at 12:00 p.m. on the IMAC
fields. For more information about the club rugby team, contact President Aravind Dileepan (x5324) or captain Luke Grote (x6356).

Jacqueline Ortega ‘04 leaps for a spike.

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR
DEAN & DE LUCA

AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

Sports Information

Specializing in:
Crabcakes, Steaks, Pasta and Seafood

Lunch
T-F
11 am - 2 pm

Dinner
T-Sat
Starting @ 5 pm

20700 North Main St.
(Located in the Chair Factory)

Ask about Catering and Box Lunches
10% Discount to all Davidson Faculty, Staff, and Students
