our very first meeting on Tuesday, April 10th at 8:30 pm in the offices of the

SGA and Honor Council elections show faults in internet voting

MIKE ANDERSON Editor Emeritus

It was brought to the attention of the Senate Executive Committee on Monday that there was widespread student confusion about the Category III Online Ballots.

SGA President Joey Harris called an emergency meeting of the SEC at 4:30 PM on Monday—attended by the full SEC as well as Elections Council co-chair Ian Willoughby—to evaluate options for rectifying the election.

The body voted unanimously (7-0) to take the following steps:

- Discount all ballots cast through the web server on Monday
- Schedule a new election on Wednesday, March 28
- Hold runoffs, as necessary, ASAP following the general election—most likely on Thursday, March 29
- Insert an additional explanatory page into Wednesday’s ballot page, reiterating that students are to vote only for elections of their own class and affirming an Honor Code responsibility to vote fairly and honestly
- Send out campus-wide voice-mails and e-mails explaining the scenario

Confusion arose due to limitations from ITS web servers. The office had no program to facilitate multiple election pages—instead, all ballots were placed on the same page with no capability to restrict students from voting in multiple races. Language explaining the process proved insufficiently clear and many students inadvertently voted in elections for other classes.

Wednesday’s ballot will include clarified voting procedures that will facilitate a fair and accurate election.

“We were lucky to have caught this confusion early,” said Harris. “When it came to our attention, the SEC came together immediately to figure out how to handle the situation. Because we caught it early, we were able to sit down and make decisions before any results had been tabulated—that kept it from getting political, we were able to make fair and clear-headed decisions in the interests of all concerned.

“The SEC really pulled together and brainstormed some solid ideas about how to deal with the situation at hand. It was a tough position to be in, but I think they handled it perfectly.”

The SEC is proscribed by the SGA’s bylaws and includes the SGA President (Joey Harris), Vice-president (Beth Gardner), Chancellor (Elder Gwen), Treasurer (Carla Bullock), and four class presidents (Christopher Brantley, Bobby Pittenger, Gray Patterson, Charles Washington).

This was the second election in which the SGA had implemented online balloting. Internet voting was inspired by a desire to make balloting more accessible to students—students could vote over the course of an entire day from the privacy of their own room, rather than stopping by a busy voting booth in Chambers or the Commons. According to former Elections Council chair Randy Skattum, voter turnout increased 67% once Internet voting was implemented.

“The first election went a lot more smoothly simply because everyone on campus was voting in the same races,” Harris explained. “But because different classes were voting in different races this week, we ran into some hiccups.”

“Any time you tread into new territory there is potential for complications,” said Harris. “But the SEC handled this with a great deal of poise and we’re back on track.”

Elections co-chair Ian Willoughby will ensure that a new web program is in place by Category I elections next fall that should eliminate any future confusion. In the meantime, carefully-worded instructions and a reliance upon the community’s Honor Code will facilitate a fair and even election process over the course of this week.

Awareness Week

Wednesday, March 28 - Saturday, April 7

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28
Rape Awareness Opening Ceremony outside Chambers at 8:30 pm.

THURSDAY, MARCH 29
Nancy Hulse presents “A Rose by any other Name” in Chambers Gallery at 7:00 pm.

FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Self-Defense training with Marlon Lynch at Baker at 2:00 pm. Please contact Alyssa Change to sign up.

SUNDAY, APRIL 1
Service project at the Women’s Shelter. Meet outside Belk at 1:00 pm. Contact Taylor Herbert to sign up.

TUESDAY, APRIL 3
Lunch Discussion about violence against women in music and media. Meet outside the Union at 12:00 pm.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4
Take Back the Night in Chambers Gallery at 7:30 pm, with a reception following in the 900 room.

SATURDAY, APRIL 7
First Responders training in the Union at 9:00 am. Contact Jen Frymiare to sign up.

STOP THE SILENCE.

03/23/01 Bicycle theft
2:30 pm: Student reports unlocked bicycle taken from Belk bike rack.

03/23/01 Disturbance
12:35 pm: Officer dispatched to Student Union to deal with unruly person. The problem was resolved.

03/22/01 False alarm
9:25 am: Security alarm at Union Outpost tripped accidentally by cleaning staff.

03/22/01 Smoking damage
12:30 am: Careless smoking reported to have caused damage to 3rd floor lounge in West Hall.

03/22/01 Property damage
1:00 am: The exit sign on the second floor of West Hall was damaged.

Campus Police Blotter 3/17/01-3/23/01

03/21/01
11:59 pm: Davidson Fire Department was dispatched to Warner Hall to investigate smell of gas. There were no injuries.

03/21/01 Suspicious phone call
1:25 pm: Female student received suspicious telephone call from an individual claiming to be conducting a survey for a radio station. His questions were sexual and personal in nature.

03/19/01 Bicycle theft
5:00 pm: Student reports unlocked bicycle taken from the bike rack at Akers Dorm.

03/17/01 Disturbance
4:07 am: Loud noise complaint at Jamieson. The music was turned off.

compiled by Stacey Hill