DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2001 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 20

Admissions strives to retain need-blind policy

By Colin EAGAN
Staff Writer

With a record number of high school seniors applying to the class of 2005 this year, competition for admission to
Davidson has reached an all-time high. Increased interest means increased emphasis on those admissions policies fundamental to the institution. Among
these policies is the need-blind admissions policy, which assures that applicants are evaluated without consideration of their ability to pay
tuition.

Though current levels of financial aid funding are sufficient to support need-blind decision making, the process is ever-threatened by increasing
costs of education in the twenty-first century. The college is currently making economic provisions to assure that future need-blind decision-making
faces no danger of dissolution.

“Think of need-blind as a quality of the institution that has endured, endures, and will continue to endure,” explained Dean
of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy Cable. The need-blind policy at Davidson assures that when admissions decisions are made, they
are done so without any knowledge or regard for an applying student’s ability or inability to pay. Cable heralds the
need-blind policy as fundamental to the college’s mission. “Admission decisions are based upon a consideration of the rigor of students’
high school curriculums, their writing ability, their leadership talent, character, and standardized test scores.”

Watson Fellowships awarded to seniors

By Jessica MERING
News Editor

As the members of the class of 2001 begin their post-collegiate lives this spring, Ben Carter and Liz Neiheisel will
embark on independent studies that will take them all over the world. Carter and Neiheisel are recipients of the competitive
Watson Fellowship that will fund their self-designed projects.

Carter plans to further his interest in farming by exploring agricultural communities in China, Peru, Ghana, and Cuba. “It seems
to me a way of life that mediates between the human and the non-human worlds, that must negotiate between tame
and wild. Knowing from where his or her food comes, the farmer acknowledges daily his or her own dependence upon
the land,” said Carter. He hopes to build on what he has learned through Davidson Outdoors and a summer in
Brazil and study organic farming.

During his time in each of the four countries, Carter will study the local farming systems and agricultural methods. He
plans to focus on the type of farming that Indians call ahimsic krishi, or nonviolent agriculture. The principles behind it
are based on individuals’ dependence on the earth and the importance of treating it with respect. “I want to stand
behind an ox and try to guide the plowshare across the field. I want to examine the undersides of leaves
for pests: insect, fungus, or bacteria. I want to spread manure across a farm and see the plants grow tall,”
said Carter.

Carter faces several logistical problems as he prepares for his year of study. First, he has to build his travels
around the seasons, ensuring that he will be in each country during the peak farming period. Also, he hopes to
work with farmers who are unable to be easily contacted.

Neiheisel will apply her interest in journalism next year by studying street newspapers in post-Soviet and post-Soviet bloc countries. These
countries face problems of extreme poverty and homelessness; the newspapers seek to educate the public and expose the horrifying problems.
“Street newspapers are topical newspapers written and published by mainstream journalists. The newspapers devote limited space to information on...

see Watson, page 4she said. “None of these criteria have anything to do with the monetary situation of a student’s
family.” Davidson shares this need-blind policy with a small number of those schools considered among the most selective in the
country. President Bobby Vagt explains the importance of need-blind policies as they relate to diversity on campus. “We want to
make very certain that when we look at diversity on this campus it is not only in the form of
gender, racial and ethnic diversity, but socio-economic diversity as well. There are students who, because of the perception of high
price, would never apply to Davidson. The question of what kind of aid we can give never enters the equation.”
Need-blind policies, Vagt argues, help make Davidson accessible to applicants of all socio-economic backgrounds, and so prove vital in establishing
equality and diversity on campus. It is important to understand what exactly is inferred by need-blind policies, however.

Old Chambers’ columns hold morbid mystery
By Lindy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

One can’t pass a meeting with Davidson President Bobby Vagt without noticing his unusual decorating style — Davidson paraphernalia, toy
tractors, and a squishy pink pig are among the items adding character to the President’s personal space. However, a new
addition is bound to spark more conversation than almost anything else in Vagt’s office—a framed article about a corpse found
in the columns of Old Chambers.

Vagt came upon this article almost entirely by accident. He was given a book entitled Memories of Davidson College, written
in 1947 by former President Walter Lingle. Stuck within the pages of this book was a Charlotte Observer article entitled
“Davidson’s ‘Cadaver in the Column’ Mystery is Cleared.” The article, which ran on December 4, 1949, focuses on a letter
from Davidson alumnus Walter A. Dumas to his attorney Howard Arbuckle. In the letter, Dumas describes his liberation of a
skull from the south column of Chambers. This would seem a fantastic claim except for the evidence included with the
letter — namely, the skull itself. Dumas intended it as a gift for PiKA, which had recently moved into a
new house after its old one fell victim to fire. He hoped the skull would embody years of Davidson tradition,
legend and history for his old fraternity.

As many students may be aware, Davidson’s campus used to be home to a medical school. According to legend, medical
students at the turn of the century had to procure cadavers for study on a not-entirely-legal basis.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Internet voting, take two
After great initial success, the new SGA internet voting hit a snag on Monday. When it became apparent that some
students had inadvertently voted in elections for which they were not eligible, the SEC took action.
News page 2

Class of 2005
Now that the applications have stopped pouring in and the dust has settled, the admissions office has released a few
facts and figures on the newest crop of Cats.
News page 6

Gladiator?
After taking home five Oscars, Ridley Scott’s epic film emerged the clear winner at the Academy Awards. Derek, however, provides
a dissenting view.
Arts & Living page 8

Break out of that box
Jenn Higgins speaks out against some of the misconceptions surrounding learning disabilities and the college’s policies regarding them.
PERSPECTIVES page 11
