Editorial

Here we are, two months into the school year, and the famous red bikes are nowhere to be found. It
seems that the SGA, along with Davidson Outdoors, has dragged its feet and let down the students they purport to
represent. Instead of working to get the bikes back on the streets, the SGA has wasted time and energy on
other issues, such as drafting a whiny, meaningless, after-the-fact resolution that condemned the administration’s decision not to cancel classes in
the hours after the Sept. 11 attacks.

The SGA ought to occupy itself with improving the lives of every student on this campus. A prime opportunity is
the red bikes program, which has fallen on hard times after being revived last spring. There was a time when
red bikes could be found across campus. Unfortunately, it didn’t last long. Because of abuse, whether intentional or accidental, the
fleet of 20 bikes was essentially destroyed within a few months.

More upsetting than the SGA’s inaction is the immaturity and irresponsibility of those who damaged the bikes. As exemplified by
its Honor Code, Davidson prides itself on the respect students have for each other and the freedom students enjoy when
exceptional personal integrity—and not administrative regulations—is the standard by which they live. Destruction of the red bikes violates these deep-rooted
principles. The red bike program is a valuable service to the college community, and reducing the fleet to a heap
of twisted chains and broken handlebars shows total disregard for the values that make this school special. Quite simply, it’s
shameful. It is childish and embarrassing to destroy property that does not belong to you, especially when others depend on
it.

If the red bikes ever find their way back onto the campus, let’s take care of them. Let’s make sure
that they stay here for good, instead of turning up in several pieces in some bush because a few people
wanted to have some weekend fun. This is our responsibility as Davidson students, but also as honest, decent members of
society.

ISSUE: The red bike program, once a valuable service to the community, is in shambles.
OUR POSITION: We all share the blame for the downfall of the program.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin

Managing Editors
Tim Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Martha Hunt
Derek Loh

Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser
Jimmy Swansbrough

Photography Editors
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Rick Bold
Aaron Houck
Jeff Larrimore

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

---

Writer was wrong, human life top priority

In response to, “U.S. Should Look to Prevent and Protect,” (Travis Lee, Sept. 26).

Travis Lee stated that the objective of U.S. military strikes in the so-called “War Against Terrorism” should be to “end
the threat posed by Osama bin Laden, to punish related organizations and to topple and eradicate regimes that support or
sponsor terrorist cells.” He then went on to claim that in order to protect American interests, the U.S. should use
diplomatic and/or coercive measures such as state-sponsored assassinations to prevent threats to the nation.

I believe his editorial failed in one aspect, which is that we are not talking about pieces on a game
board. Any action, military or otherwise, must take into account the value of human life. In Afghanistan, there is a
glaring lack of human rights for women. Women caught reading may be legally executed, and a man has full power
to kill a woman who he believes is wearing clothing that is too revealing. After three years of drought and
even more years of civil war (which were occurring before the Taliban regime took control in 1997), the country is
on the verge of starvation. There is no economy, no rights and no freedom. The Taliban continues to oppress its
people, denying foreign aid and executing those that try to bring it in. One Afghan citizen stated, “People say we
should bomb Afghanistan back...to the Stone Age. It’s already there.” Yes, American security is an issue, but it’s not the
only one. People should not be killed for who they are and what they believe in. Women should not be
persecuted because of their gender, and people should not be oppressed for lack of religious fanaticism. Any action against the
Taliban, military or not, should not be for the sake of American security, but for the sanctity and dignity of
the human being. What better way to end anti-American sentiments than to take this opportunity to show the world that
we care about those outside our borders? That we acknowledge that humanity transcends race, gender, ethnicity, and national identity. State-sponsored
terrorism cannot be stopped by state-sponsored assassinations (one may ask what the difference is here, since the end is the
same), nor can hate be stopped with bombs and tanks. The best way to prevent and protect is not through
the army, but through liberation, and showing the world that freedom is not limited to those that happen to live
in free nations.
Clinton Rickards ‘04

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2001

Faculty out of line in blasting Bible plaques

It is a pity that the simple installation of plaques could be so controversial. It is sad that a donor’s
intentions could be pilloried. It is sad that the College’s Presbyterian roots could be discounted. It is most unfortunate, however,
that the entire issue has been politicized, especially by some members of the religion department.

Indeed, Professor Trent Foley picks up on a topic that is currently being debated in the Catholic Church—that is, inclusive
language. Professor Foley maintains that the translation was written by fundamentalists committed to a literal translation, one that “none of
us as scholars would ever think of using in our religion classes.” Come again, please? Professor Foley and perhaps other
members of the religion department reject a translation of a text because it is faithful to the original text. When
you read a text translated into English, as the Bible is, don’t you want a faithful and accurate translation? To
some religion professors, though, a literal translation is undesirable. How can this be?

Professor Foley’s choice for a “better” translation is the New Revised Standard Version (NRSV), released 12 years after the New
American Standard Version (NASV), which supplied the quotes for the plaques. It seems that a literal translation doesn’t provide for
inclusive language, and is therefore undesirable. This is the politics of today’s biblical scholarship. Frustrated that the 24-year-old text does
not mesh with his notion of an updated and softened Bible, a member of the religion department blasts it as
being out-of-date, unscholarly, and generally misguided.

Much of the debate probably revolves around this same idea of translation. We should all keep in mind that the
Bible is translated and re-translated often, and regularly even among those in particular faiths. It is inevitable that translations will
always be skewed slightly to reflect the prerogatives of each group. So it is fine that the religion professors at
the College prefer one translation to the other. However, it is somewhat amusing that they pick one over another because
it is “literal.” Essentially, the professors should not get angry because the donor is not quite as ‘up-to-date’ theologically as
they are.

That’s not the only angle on this issue, however: Professor Karl Plank objects to the fact that the quotes are
“trivialized” by their placement on the walls of the College. How does this trivialize? If anything, doesn’t it triumphalize? Doesn’t
the criticism circle around the plaques’ prominent placements? Wasn’t the debate about the triumphalization of texts held sacred by believers
of Christianity? Can you make sense of this argument? It would be interesting to hear what other objections the religion
department has to offer.

Finally, the plaques are not very noticeable. I have never noticed them, and have not ventured to read them. Those
who are offended can easily ignore them. Those who notice them can appreciate that they signify the tradition of the
College, and provide inspiration for this journey of life, always venturing to that which is beyond.
Roland Foss ‘05

SEND US YOUR LETTERS
We welcome letters to the editors. We edit for content, grammar, and brevity. Please e-mail submissions of less than 400
words to davidsonian@davidson.edu.
