By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

The disappointment surrounding the baseball team during its long losing streak in early March has given way to renewed optimism
that the club can make a midseason run through the Southern Conference. The Wildcats pounded out a season-high 20 hits
and reached double-digits in scoring for the first time in a month in a 13-7 win over the College of
Charleston on Sunday. The Wildcats won the series over Charleston 2-1.

“This was a very important weekend for us,” senior ace Wes Self said. “These games were crucial to the rest
of the season and certainly for the Southern Conference [tournament] at the end of the season.”

After totaling eight runs in two games on Saturday, the Wildcats’ offense came to life on Sunday. As has often
been the case in recent games, the Wildcats fell behind early. The Cougars opened the game with two singles off
starter Jeremiah Parvin, and both runners scored on a sacrifice fly and double, respectively. Parvin eventually got control and escaped
the jam before further damage could be done.

The Wildcats answered back in their first at-bat with three one-out singles, including a James Marino hit to load the
bases. A throwing error allowed Ryan Stroker and Tim Frend to tie the game at two. Matt Berry brought home
Marino on a long sacrifice fly to center for the 3-2 lead, and the Wildcats didn’t look back, tallying 10
more runs over the next seven innings. The big blow came in the sixth inning, when the Wildcats racked up
four runs to seal the game.

After battling for 6 1/3 innings, Parvin gave up three earned runs on three hits, but still earned his second
straight victory. Parvin is now the Wildcats’ No. 2 pitcher behind senior Wes Self. Mark Wells has been

Davidson splits doubleheader
Wildcats come alive after dropping first game of series to visiting Cougars
By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

After a 3-5 loss in the first game of Saturday’s doubleheader with College of Charleston, the baseball team bounced back
to win the second game 5-4 behind a walk-off RBI single from Jack Purcell and a strong outing by sophomore
starter Derrik Wolpert. The split gave the Wildcats (10-15, 5-10) their third win in the last four games and second
last-at-bat win in three days.

Davidson entered the ninth inning of the second game up 4-3, but reliever Tim Frend gave up an RBI double
after walking consecutive batters with two outs. Frend (2-0) escaped the bases-loaded jam with a strikeout and picked up the
win as a result. The Wildcats lost the lead but maintained their composure and battled back in the bottom half
of the inning.

Jeremiah Parvin led off with a deep double to center field off of Matthew Thompson (1-1). Rattled by the double,
Thompson threw a wild pitch to sophomore D. J. Dailey, advancing Parvin to third. Dailey took a walk to put
runners at first and third with no outs. All that was needed to score the speedy Parvin was a deep
fly ball in any direction. Recognizing that, the Cougars’ outfielders played shallow. Purcell, who scored the winning run on Thursday
against UNC Asheville, came up with the game-winning hit deep into the right centerfield gap on the 0-1 pitch.

Wolpert pitched exceptionally well, yielding just three runs on just seven hits, one strikeout and a walk. Keeping the ball
down in the strike zone, Head Coach Dick Cooke says, was the key to getting an amazing 18 groundball outs.

In the opening game of the doubleheader, Wildcats’ ace Wes Self took the hill in an effort to get back
into the win column. After a torrid 2-0 start that included a no-hitter against High Point in the season opener,
Self lost three of his next four games, leaving him with a 3-3 record and a lot of question marks.
Those questions would remain unanswered Saturday as Self suffered his fourth loss of the season after giving up five runs
in the sixth inning before being lifted for Mark Wells.

A Ryan Stroker solo home run and an unearned run batted in by Cassidy Lundin gave Davidson a 2-0 lead
over the Cougars going into the fifth inning. But the team was unable to hold the lead. Although Davidson threatened
to come back in the ninth, putting the tying run on second with one out, Charleston’s pitching was too good.
Closer Andy Hutchings quelled the rally with a strikeout and fly out to earn his ninth save of the season.

“It was a great game, we battled hard, and just came up short,” said Head Coach Dick Cooke. “We were
in a position to win and that’s all you can ask.”

A change in the starting line-up had the offense rolling better in both games. Cooke tinkered with the top of
the order last week by moving Jack Purcell from the second spot to the leadoff spot, and the move paid
off. Purcell banged out six hits in the two games. Ryan Stroker, who was moved back from the leadoff spot
to complete the switch, is enjoying his new role as well.

“With Tim (Frend) hitting behind me, I don’t feel as much pressure,” said Stroker. “Jack (Purcell) is a little bit
quicker and has played real well in the leadoff spot, so it has worked out for both of us.”

“We played well all weekend, pitched well all weekend, swung the bats, and played better defense. We played pretty solid
against a pretty good team. Their team ERA coming into the weekend was very good, and it is a credit
to the hitters that we were able to put runs up. We had good at bats all weekend. We came
through with some bigHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Time plays defensively." — Head Coach Dick Cooke on the Wildcats’ performance against College of Charleston reassigned to provide depth
in the bullpen. The move was a result of Parvin’s success during the week. Parvin was not expecting the move,
but is pleased to make it. “I thought relieving would be my role, but with Tim Frend and Stroker pitching
well in relief, I guess we needed another weekend starter,” he said.

“Coach told me I was going to make the change in the middle of the week a few weeks ago.
He said I had been pitching well and could help out. My success has carried over, I was able to
continue to pitch well.”

DAVIDSON vs. No. 21 The Citadel
When: Saturday, first game at noon; Sunday, 1 p.m.
Where: Wildcat Park

Wildcats to host nationally-ranked Bulldogs

The Wildcats are peaking at just the right time. The winning weekend put Davidson in a position to do some
damage against league-leading and 18th-ranked Citadel squad when it comes to Davidson for a three-game set this weekend. A win
or two in the series would help Davidson climb up the standings in the Southern Conference. It will not be
easy to beat the Bulldogs (20-6), but it is certainly possible.

“They are having a great season,” Head Coach Dick Cooke said. “It will be a challenging and fun weekend. It
will be a nothing-to-lose kind of situation. We have to go in and relax and play hard like we did
(last) weekend.”

Prior to Sunday’s loss at East Tennessee State, the Bulldogs had won 14 straight games and finished 18-2 during a
recent 20-game home stand. They are led by pre-season All-American Philip Hartig, who is currently batting .443 with six home
runs and 34 RBI. Hartig, a 6-3, 220-pound senior from Asheville, set the all-time Southern Conference marks in hits with
312 and RBI with 255 this season.

The Citadel also has a tremendous pitching staff that leads the conference in ERA at 3.10. Sophomore left-hander Eric Talbert
is off to a 5-0 start with a 1.44 ERA. He led the conference a year ago with a 2.76
ERA as a freshman. Out of the bullpen, junior right-hander Randy Corn has been impressive, striking out 41 batters in
21.1 innings. He is 3-1 with four saves on the year. — Hinds Howard

Cats down UNC Asheville
By Hinds Howard
Staff Writer

The baseball team earned its second straight win in dramatic fashion last Thursday, topping UNC Asheville 5-4. With the score
knotted at four in the bottom of the ninth, two outs and runners at the corners, pinch-hitter Billy Ryan lined
a single to centerfield, scoring the winning run from third.

Davidson was sloppy in the field early on. After recording two quick outs, starter Mark Wells was caught off-guard by
a near-perfect drag bunt up the third base line by Corey Mercer. Cassidy Lundin sprinted in from third base and
managed to field it, but threw the ball away, allowing Mercer to advance all the way to third. The next
batter, Curtis Moncus, lifted a fly ball to deep left field. Tim Frend dropped it, and Mercer was able to
score easily from third. Asheville scored again on an RBI single through the right side and was up 2-0 after
one inning.

Davidson tightened up after the first inning and didn’t give up another run until the sixth, while rallying for four
runs over the first three innings. To keep his pitchers rested for the weekend series against College of Charleston, Head
Coach Dick Cooke changed pitchers every two innings. Andy Demko, the third pitcher of the day, gave up a run
in the sixth, and Ryan Stroker gave up the tying run in the seventh, as Davidson let the Bulldogs back
into the game. Stroker was lifted for centerfielder Jeremiah Parvin in the eighth. Parvin (1-3) earned his first win with
two perfect innings to give the Wildcats the win.

Parvin came very close to giving up a hit that may have sparked another two-out rally in the eighth when
Jason Ronai pulled a 3-2 fastball to left centerfield. But defensive specialist Stephen “The Wease” Aldrich, who earned his nickname
for stealing foul balls in practice, broke into a full sprint after the ball. Just when it appeared that the
ball would fall out of his reach, he laid out, extended his glove, and snatched it for the third out.
When asked about his potential game-saving play, Aldrich said, “He (Ronai) surprised me and pulled it. I got a pretty
good jump on it, and instincts took over.”

The game remained tied going into the bottom of the ninth. With the tension and pressure mounting, UNC Asheville reliever
Jason Walker quickly struck out Purcell and Stroker using a side-arm release. Frend finally hit a bloop single to center
to start the rally and advanced to third on a James Marino hit to right field. That put the Wildcats
in a two outs and runners-on-base situation they have begun to capitalize on of late. Cooke had called backup catcher
Billy Ryan from the bullpen an inning earlier and told him to get ready to hit. With two outs, Cooke
made the call, sending Ryan up in place of Aldrich. He quickly fell behind 0-2, but battled back to 2-2
before sending the next pitch to shallow center field for the game winner.

“The guy was a submarine pitcher, which had guys off-balance all day,” said Ryan. “Tim (Frend) and James (Marino) were
able to stay back and get on base before me. He got ahead of me early on. I just wanted
to see what he had. He threw me a couple of sliders, and I just lined the second one up
the middle. It worked out well.”
