By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

As Charleston head coach John Kresse prepared his scouting report for Davidson, he focused on a few familiar names: Wayne Bernard, Martin Ides, and Emeka Erege. But after his team lost 68-65 to Davidson on Saturday, it was a different name that haunted Kresse: Jouni Eho.

The 6-6 freshman forward scorched Charleston on Saturday—coming off the bench with 17 points in just 24 minutes of court time. He connected on each of his three three-point attempts, went 4-5 from the field, and hit 6 of his 8 free-throw attempts. All that on the heels of a slow-starting freshman season in which Eho averaged just four points a game.

“Jouni Eho has become a tremendous rookie in this league,” said Kresse after the game. “He really seems to be coming on. He’s just a rugged player who knows how to play.” And, in some ways, he’s just beginning to learn.

Eho hails from Vantaa, Finland, where basketball is a relatively obscure sport. The schools don’t field basketball teams, so Eho grew up instead as a soccer player. “Basketball was not so popular,” he said, “especially in the northern part of the country where I grew up.” But the tall, lanky son of a preacher eventually discovered basketball. And then Bob McKillop discovered Jouni Eho.

Pakka Salminen, a McKillop friend, coached Eho on a YMCA club team in Lahti, Finland, and invited the Wildcats coach to come watch the team play. So McKillop flew to Finland. And shortly thereafter, Eho was bound for North Carolina.

But his path to Division I American basketball was not without a few obstacles. Chief among them, Eho (like all Finnish young men) incurred obligatory military service before he could venture to the United States and pursue his dream. Eho spent a year as a scout in the Finnish army, completing 50-mile hikes through the mountains and icy swims across icy lakes. He recalls thinking to himself, “Why did I have to join the Army? Why can’t I just concentrate on the game that I love?” But what Eho deferred in practice time he made up for with accrued maturity.

When he arrived on campus last fall, assistant coach Matt Matheny said, “Jouni has a leg up on the majority of freshmen players in the conference because he’s mature. He’s a man.” With a year of grueling military service under his belt and his trans-Atlantic migration behind him, one would think that fate owed Eho some smooth sailing. But it was not yet to be.

Eho arrived stateside and was overwhelmed by the different style of play in America. “As the season developed,” Matheny explained, “Jouni experienced some growing pains. He had to make some adjustments to the type of play that he was going to see night in and night out—adjusting himself to American basketball as compared to European basketball.”

“I wasn’t sure what to expect when I got here,” Eho said. “My goal coming into the season was to adapt to our system—I knew every minute of court time I earned would be a personal victory.” Despite a few flashes early on, Eho didn’t click into the system at first and court minutes seemed few and far between. “I didn’t quite find myself for a while in our system,” he said. “I wasn’t getting my natural shots from the floor. I wasn’t getting into the flow of the game.”

But then two things happened. Eho began to acclimate himself to the faster-paced American version of the sport. And a strong season by Martin Ides enabled the Wildcats to alter their offense—shifting from a three-out / two-in system, to an offensive scheme centered around Ides in the middle with four perimeter players. “In the new system,” Jouni described, “I have a lot more freedom to move outside from the four-position. And I also learned to set screens well, because that opened up teammates and in turn drew help defenders away from me.”

And things began to click. Eho combined for 29 points in a pair of late-season conference games against Wofford and Furman. Then he erupted for a clutch 17 against Charleston. “Now Jouni understands the pace of the game,” said Matheny. “A few months ago, the game was flying by him and he wasn’t having time to set himself and shoot. Now he’s catching the ball and ready to fire, knocking them down.” Never was this more apparent than with 1:17 remaining atBelk Arena on Saturday. Wayne Bernard drove the lane from the left wing, drawing help-side defenders and giving Eho just enough breathing room at the top of the arc. As the defense collapsed, Bernard kicked the ball out to Eho, who fired up a go-ahead basket without a moment’s hesitation. And he’s 4-0 at Belk Arena. It swished through the net, as he knew it would.

“That was a big-time shot from Jouni,” said Matheny. If the past few weeks are any indication, it certainly won’t be his last.

Injury-ridden Lady Wildcats hobble into Greenville

Davidson, seeded ninth, plays Wofford at 5 p.m. Thursday in the first round of the women’s tournament at Timmons Arena on the campus of Furman University. The winner will go on to face No. 1 seed Chattanooga Friday afternoon.

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Here we go again. After a bruising 18-game conference schedule, 10 Southern Conference women’s squads are bracing for a roughshod weekend in Greenville, S.C.—host city of a season-ending tournament that has been nothing if not unpredictable over recent seasons.

On face value, it would seem that the competition gap couldn’t be wider. On the front end, top-seeded Chattanooga enters the tournament with a stunning Ratings Percentage Index (RPI) of No. 54—one spot better than perennial powerhouse Old Dominion. Bringing up the rear, Appalachian State ranks a woeful 289th out of 316 teams ranked.

Davidson enters this tournament just two years removed from a remarkable run that came to an end in the 1999 championship game. But this season, a beleaguered Wildcats squad will roll into Greenville with woefully low expectations. Depleted by injuries and plagued by inconsistency, Davidson has struggled to a 9-18 overall record this season.

Faced with the loss of three starters, coach John Filar turned to an unproven but energetic young bench to pick up the slack. Nine different Wildcats have joined the starting lineup this season, including three freshmen.

“It’s been tough to reckon with the loss of so many impact players,” Filar said. “But the silver lining has been that we’ve been able to throw so many different players into the mix. A lot of girls have earned some valuable experience.”

Now the hope is to convert that experience into a concerted run in tournament play. But that will be no small task. Only once this season have the ’Cats won back-to-back conference games (against ETSU and College of Charleston in late January). And to make matters worse, it appears that they will square off against No. 9 Wofford in the first round of play at Timmons Arena. The Terriers have had an up-and-down season (finishing 7-11 in conference play) but have dominated action against Davidson this season—dispensing of the Wildcats by a combined 44 points in two meetings.

“I wish I could explain (our success against Davidson),” said Terriers head coach David Graves. “If I had the formula for success, I’d be sure to use it every time. We just had two situations (against Davidson) where we prepared our players very well for what to expect and our kids executed perfectly.”

To survive the opening round, Davidson must first contain Wofford’s perimeter threats: Jenny Nett and Natalie Walsh combined for 48 points (21 of those from behind the arc) in the Terriers’ 85-58 victory over the ’Cats on February 17.

“Davidson is not somebody we look forward to playing,” said Graves. “They’re tough to match up with and they create a lot of problems for us. But we like to think that we do the same for them.”

Whoever wins that match-up will meet Chattanooga in round two. Wes Moore’s Lady Mocs enter this year’s tournament with a 15-3 conference record—and an eagerness to avenge their early exit in last year’s semifinals. But unlike last season, Chattanooga is not the lone superpower in the SoCon. Georgia Southern also notched a 15-3 record this year, thanks in large part to a ten-game win streak to close out the season. Greensboro (14-4) and Furman (11-6)—who faced off in last year’s championship game—also pose legitimate threats.

“You can throw seedings out when it comes tournament time,” Graves said. “On any given night, you’d better bring your ‘A game’ or there’s a great chance that you’re gonna lose.”

THE INJURED
- Junior captain Bethany Schott (torn ACL—missed all season)
- Junior guard Dee Taylor (knee surgeries—missed all season)
- Junior forward Leah Uhernik (a fourth, and likely career-ending ACL tear—out since Jan. 6)
- Freshman point guard Ashley Hallsted (stress fracture above ankle—out since Jan. 16)