By NICHOLAS CARLSON

Staff Writer

When Head Coach Kevin Hundley remarked that his team has “gained some confidence,” he made a decided understatement.

After a horrid 0-6 start, the 'Cats have stunned just about everybody but themselves by winning four in a row.

The Wildcats initiated their streak two weeks ago against a weak Elon team, but the next three victories came in
tough conference matches.

Last Tuesday, in their first conference match, Davidson thumped the Wofford Terriers, 4-0. Leigh Anne Hoskins lit up the scoreboard,
scoring two goals in the win. Tara Maloney and Natalie Cox contributed with goals of their own to trounce the
Terriers, now 1-5 for the season.

Momentum and determination drove the 'Cats to their third straight win—last Friday’s match against Appalachian State. Scoreless until the 87th
minute, the game was a defensive slug-fest, won 1-0 on a late header from Cox. Maloney, in a by-now comfortable
and consistent role, offered up an assist from the left side of the field for the winning goal.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 3, 2001

Lindsay Ferguson

Midfielder Deneille Erikson ‘04 blows by a flimsy ETSU defender.

Coach Hundley was pleased with senior Cox, saying “It’s a real tribute to her to come in and to make
such a big contribution to the team in this, her senior year.”

The win against conference foe ASU improved the team to 2-1 in league play while dropping the Mountaineers to 1-1-1.

The 'Cats soundly defeated the Buccaneers of East Tennessee State in another offensive explosion, moving to 4-6 overall. The 4-0
win was Davidson’s third conference victory in a row.

The game was Sarah Hobart’s fourth straight shutout, the most a freshman keeper has ever had at Davidson. She hasn’t
missed a save in 14 attempts.

“She’s obviously played solid all year, we were just giving up too many shots and too many chances earlier on,”
said Coach Hundley.

The winning streak has put new life into a season that started dismally.

“I think we’ve still got a long way to go, but in the conference we’re 3-1, so we feel like
we’re in the top half of the league, which is where we thought we could be,” said a pleased Coach
Hundley.

This Friday, Oct. 5, the Wildcats travel to Blacksburg to take on the Hokies of Virginia Tech.

Game Faces: Captains Around Campus

THIS WEEK: Field Hockey...

Photos by Matt Whited and Erin Berry

Jessica Barton
Hummelstown, PA
Economics Major

Position: Center Back

Years Experience in Sport: 11 years
Favorite Pump-up Song: Rocky IV Theme

Who is the best role model for youth today?

“Michael Jordan...he just never quits.”

Amanda Mordavsky
South Windsor, CT
English Major

Position: Goalkeeper

Years Experience in Sport: 7 years
Favorite Pump-up Song: “Hit me with your best shot” -Pat Benatar

Who is the best role model for youth today?

“I think Karen Scavetto is a great role model for all young female athletes. She has worked her butt off
to become one of the best archers in the world at (age) 19.”

Club Sports Information

Resembling the power and fury of a cataclysmic volcanic eruption, the Davidson inline hockey team exploded to a dominating 11-1
victory last Thursday against the division rival Checkers.

Davidson scored early and often as the Checkers were unable to contain the speed and prowess of the Wildcats. Taking
advantage of several days of rest, the squad was able to capitalize on many offensive plays.

Amazingly, seven of the eight skaters managed to light the lamp, testimony to Davidson’s depth. Offensively, the team was firing
on all cylinders—Richard Connolly, Trip Cook, Weston Waxweiler, Andrew Forester, Tim Cook, Jim Davidson, and Ned Conway all scored. The
performance is all the more impressive considering the defense-minded play of the Checkers.

Trip Cook said, “Entering the game we knew that every goal would come at some physical cost, yet the team
responded with fearlessness and tenacity. Simply put, we kicked some ass.”

Richard Connolly led the scoring race with three goals, overwhelming and frustrating the opposition all night.

Captain Jay Hollis, the lone skater who failed to record a goal, responded positively to questions regarding his limited output.

“Even though I did not light the lamp,” said Hollis, “I felt good about my defensive play. Usually I let
a lot of forwards skate around me, but tonight I successfully closed the lane.”

Fellow defenseman Ned Conway said that Hollis played a solid game. “Jay played awesome tonight. He usually lets a lot
of people skate around him, but tonight he was flawless.”

Davidson’s defensive play indicates that the team can also dominate on the other end of the ice. Limiting the Checkers
to fewer

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as the night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.”

—Sun Tzu

THE WEEK AHEAD

FOOTBALL
Oct. 6 @ Morehead St. 2:30

Men’s SOCCER
Oct. 4 @ The Citadel 7:00
Oct. 9 Appalachian St. 8:00

Women’s Soccer
Oct. 5 @ Virginia Tech 3:30
Oct. 9 Wake Forest 5:30

VOLLEYBALL
Oct. 5 @ ETSU 7:00
Oct. 6 @ App. State 7:00
Oct. 9 Winthrop Univ. 7:00

FIELD HOCKEY
Oct. 7 @ Duke 2:00

Cross Country
Oct. 6 Men- Lehigh, Penn.
Women- Charleston, S.C.

GOLF
Oct. 8-9 Intercollegiates @ UNCW
