; DAVIDSON COLLEGE : WEDNESDAY, May 2, 2001 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 24

Staff Writer

The normally tranquil Davidson campus erupted with controversy following Monday’s announcement that pop star Britney Spears will perform at Baker
next fall. While many hailed the choice as “totally cool,” others expressed fears that Ms. Spears’ sexualized image and complete
lack of musical talent will have a negative impact on this conservative Southern community.

The decision to bring Ms. Spears to Davidson was made by a secret meeting of select Union Board officials. Strangely,
this meeting seems to have been attended exclusively by men. A participant, who asked to remain anonymous, admitted that Britney
Spears “really can’t sing, and her songs basically suck,” but justified his “yes” vote by arguing, “she’s totally hot. How
could we say no?”

Apparently, Britney Spears herself initiated talks to perform at Davidson and has agreed to appear at a fraction of her
usual fee. Davidson will be only one stop on Ms. Spears’ tour of 20 top liberal arts colleges. Sources who
read People Magazine a lot attribute this tour to the fact that Ms. Spears is applying to Maine’s exclusive Bowdoin
College, which usually rejects applicants who display the total lack of intellectual depth and writing ability demonstrated in Spears’ books,
Britney Spears’ Heart to Heart and A Mother’s Gift.

In a press conference, Spears said she’s “like, so totally committed to higher education and stuff, so I’m like performing
at lots of colleges to show that there’s more to me than, you know, the stuff that I do.”

Following the announcement, the entire Music department barricaded themselves in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building and refused to come out
or eat until the invitation was rescinded, citing Ms. Spears’ “unjustified mangling of innocent musical notes.” After reading her books,
the English department...

see Spears, page 4

Taco Bell finds a new home in the Outpost

By Colin EAGAN
Staff Writer

Patterson court-goers will soon have new reason to claim a satisfying trip south of the border that last Saturday night—in
an abrupt, last-minute decision, President Bobby Vagt declared yesterday that the current Outpost building will be the site of a
future Taco Bell. The installation of the fast food franchise, scheduled for completion by First Night Down of next semester,
has crushed the hopes of the Davidson International Association (DIA), which had launched a bid for the soon-to-be vacated Outpost
house earlier this year.

“I don’t see what the big deal is,” Vagt commented between dripping bites of a Gordita Supreme. “What’s more international
than Taco Bell?”

“This is typical of Davidson—always trying to shed its small, southern, close-minded tradition. Humph, tacos on campus. Before you know
it they’ll be letting in girls,” commented Bea O’Problem ’02.

Certainly, the grievances of DIA are multifaceted. But, hey. Small price to pay for food that tastes... terrible. “Why not
just construct a syrup of ipecac factory and serve that Wednesday through Saturday?” commented a surly Anita Bath ’02.

Vagt remains sanguine. “Oh, they'll be stuffing down Chalupas faster than Liz Taylor after bad news from her plastic surgeon,”
he maintained. “Listen, perhaps I would have...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

been more inclined to give the house to those international kids if they could actually cook to save their lives,”
Vagt continued. “But frankly, I just wasn’t tasting it.”

Vagt fights for his life after KArnival

By Linny BALDWIN
Staff Writer

President Bobby Vagt had a close call at last weekend’s annual KArnival when he was rushed to the hospital to
be treated for a knife injury to the head. The accident occurred during an amateur knife-throwing display by the brothers
of KA, who had lined up several professors (all of whom seem to have reputations as ‘tough graders’) and the
president to serve as targets. When Vagt’s turn came, he was asked to place an apple on top of his
head and stand perfectly still as a KA brother attempted to toss a knife through the apple. Unfortunately, the knife
struck Vagt’s skull instead. An operation to remove the projectile and repair Vagt’s head was apparently successful. Although doctors initially
suspected the knife may have injured Vagt’s brain, sources close to the president say they haven’t noticed any difference. The
brother involved expressed regret over the incident, saying, “I really didn’t mean to throw the knife that high.” Sources say
that President Bobby Vagt is recovering well after his near-death experience at KArnival last month.

Though many eagerly await the convenience of a brand new, Cat-card friendly, fast food establishment on campus, several major concerns
have been raised. Will Davidson students have to clean the restaurant bathrooms, for example? And what of nutrition? Vagt is
boastful on this note, asserting that essentially all Taco Bell food items fulfill a whopping 532% of the generic college
student’s weekly caloric intake, while simultaneously “putting other sources of saturated fat to shame.” In an effort to drum up
student support for such wholesome dishes, colorful menus have been passed around campus. Hak Shin Park ’04 had the opportunity
to salivate over one. “Aw, so many tasty new things to try, man,” he noted. “What’s Botulism?”

DIA members remain incredulous of Vagt’s intentions. “What do I think of Bobby Vagt?” asked organization member Ivana Tinkle ’01.
“Bobby YACHT is more like it. I’m sure that’s what he’ll be buying with the kickback he’s no doubt taking
on this thing. Where’s the Tylenol?”

Ever optimistic, the President describes this addition to our campus as “without a doubt the most outstanding accomplishment to date
in the school’s history.” The Davidson College Taco Bell will open to a wild campus-wide fiesta celebration next fall.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Students up in arms
Special Correspondent Burgin Hardin delivers a shocking report from a peer institution. After a difficult registration session, students took out
their frustrations with water guns and balloons. News page 2

PCC shows support of service
Patterson Court houses have sponsored numerous and varied service projects this year, like CoHo’s upcoming foosball tournament. News pages 4

Final interview
Martha Hunt closes out her series of student interviews with some perspectives from senior Matt Clifford. He shared his views
on the Honor Council, swimming, and his Neopet. Arts & Living page 7

High-cost housing
After doing some investigating, one student raises questions about the price paid for housing at Davidson. Is living on campus
really worth it? Perspectives page 9
