Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Shooting Woff

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Seniors Kim Taylor, Jessica Heath, and JoAnne Hassel bid goodbye to Belk Arena on Saturday, but the Wildcats were unable to send them off with a victory. Wofford used a blistering perimeter shooting attack to win 85-58 on Senior Day at Davidson (9-16, 4-12). Led by guards Natalie Walsh and Jenny Nett, the Terriers connected on 10 of 19 three-point attempts on the afternoon.

“We just shot the lights out,” said Wofford coach David Graves, whose squad moved into a seventh-place tie with Western Carolina. Davidson, on the other hand, shot just 31 percent on the night (1-7 from behind the arc) and appears to be settling into the ninth-place spot in the Southern Conference.

In what has been a trying and transitional season for the Wildcats, the three graduating seniors saw vastly expanded roles on this year’s squad. JoAnne Hassel moved into a part-time starting role and averaged 18 minutes per game in conference action. Hassel, a 5-8 captain from Jacksonville, Fla., was the sharpest shooting guard on the squad—hitting on 43 percent of her field goal attempts on the season. Kim Taylor also played impressively—earning the starting nod at center and pitching in 7.5 points and 5.5 rebounds a game. And Jessica Heath, who sank what many call the biggest shot in Wildcat history with a buzzer-beater in the 1999 SoCon Tournament semi-final game, also turned in a solid senior campaign.

Davidson travels to Statesboro on Saturday for the final game of the regular season against Georgia Southern.

Seniors (from L to R) Jess Heath, Kim Taylor, and JoAnne Hassel are tops Lady Wildcats on Senior Day. JoAnne Hassel, Jess Heath, and Kim Taylor play final games in Belk Arena, joined by their parents during a pre-game ceremony Saturday to recognize their four years of dedication to Wildcat basketball.

JoAnne Hassel, a native of Jacksonville, Fla., is the third generation to graduate from Davidson College, joining her father David and her grandfather Carl. One of the team’s tri-captains, she has played in each game this year and will earn her 10th start of the season this afternoon. A tenacious defender who is willing to do whatever it takes to succeed, she is averaging 3.8 points per game and scored a season-high 10 points at Western Carolina on February 3.

A 6-3 center from Portsmouth, R.I., Kim Taylor is one of the tallest players on the team and yet hails from the smallest state in the union. This player has scored in double digits in two of the last four contests and enters the game today with a 7.4 points per game average. She scored a career-best 16 against Drexel on December 30, and is currently ranked among the Southern Conference leaders in rebounding with 5.5 per game.

Jessica Heath, a 6-3 center from Naperville, Ill., has also made significant contributions to the Wildcats program. Her basket in the waning seconds of the semifinals in 1999 sent Davidson to its first berth in the Southern Conference championship game. She is currently 14th in the Davidson annals for blocked shots with 21. Earlier this season, she became the seventh player to lead the team in scoring this season with her 14 points against Furman here at Belk Arena.

Erin Berry
Junior midfielder Sarah Otto (#18) spars with a Denver defender during Monday’s season opener at Richardson Stadium. Otto finished the day with a game-high six goals.

Lacrosse opens with 14-1 victory
Sarah Otto’s six goals lead team over Denver

By Mike CLARK
Davidson SID

After a sloppy first half of action, the Davidson lacrosse team tallied 11 second-half goals for a 14-1 win over the Denver Pioneers. This was the season opener.For both squads. Two and a half minutes into the game, Patience Baldwin put Denver on the board to give the Pioneers a 1-0 lead. Davidson quickly responded as junior Christin Raimondo tied the match 29 seconds later. Raimondo would finish with three goals for the day. Senior Rachel Bowen put the Wildcats ahead for good at the 24:15 mark in the opening period. Sophomore Lauren Seaton would add a goal before the half to give Davidson a 3-1 cushion going into the break. The flood gates opened in the early part of the second half for Davidson as the Wildcats tallied six goals in eight minutes. Junior Sarah Otto scored the first two of those goals on her way to a game-high six goals. Senior Stephanie Hunter hit the back of the net twice in just over a minute during that same stretch. Senior captain Lauren Kenchington and Lauren Seaton finished with two assists to lead all players. Freshman keeper Becca Nussbaum began her Davidson career with nine stops on the afternoon. Davidson will be back in action on February 25 as they travel up tobacco road to take on the Tar Heels of North Carolina. Game time is set for 1 p.m.

Women’s tennis falls to East Carolina, Campbell and University of Memphis
By Whitney Boykin & Elizabeth Moreno
Staff Writers

The women’s tennis team lost three non-conference matches last weekend to East Carolina, Campbell, and the University of Memphis. The most promising aspect of the weekend, said assistant coach Steve Ascher, was that six players were able to claim at least one victory in either singles or doubles in the three losses. “The individual results demonstrated that the team has the ability to compete successfully against anyone,” he said.

Due to inclement weather conditions, a new format aimed at shortening the matches was implemented. Once a team had acquired four points, the remaining matches played a ten-point tiebreaker in the place of a third set. The format put more pressure on the players, making the matches more exciting and each point more crucial. Head coach Mary Price saw some encouraging signs in the way her team responded. “I saw a lot of potential during the course of the weekend,” she said. “Every team member played a higher level of tennis than in the fall. Many matches were close and could have gone either way. In the future we need to start off stronger and capitalize on every advantage in order to pull out the close matches.”

On Friday, freshman Lindsay Offutt topped Kerstin Stockinger of Campbell by the score of 6-7, 6-3, 10-7 to earn the Wildcats (1-3) only win against the Camels. Saturday’s matches against East Carolina and Memphis were closer, but the team still came up short. Katherine Hatch was not able to play the No. 6 singles slot due to an injury. But her replacement, Catherine Rainbow, stepped up and won in her first time in the lineup. Kelley Cantrell and Gayle Jones won their doubles match against Sumitra Rao and Laura Hughes from Memphis. Cantrell also won a straight-set match at number four singles.

“A lot of what was achieved on the tennis courts this past weekend depended on how much heart the player had,” Ascher said. “Even when players were down, they never gave their opponents an inch, always fighting at a frenetic pace until that final ball was struck. The thing that pleased me most was seeing how each player was able to quickly apply things that they had learned in the losses. Even though we fell just short of a team victory, I believe we will be able to look back on that match and note its importance.”

The next home match is Friday at 3 p.m. against Presbyterian. The men’s team will host James Madison at 11 a.m. on Saturday.