Committee sponsors week-long education effort

By Colin EAGAN
Staff Writer

In the US, it is estimated that a man rapes a woman every 1.3 minutes. One out of three girls and one out of ten boys are molested. 51% of college-aged men said they would rape if they were certain they could get away with it.

“DO NOT TOUCH” read the weathered paper sign, rain-smeared ink bleeding beneath a single flower. “This carnation has been placed here to represent ONE sexual assault or rape that has taken place on campus.” Such subtle reminders have been placed outside of campus buildings in honor of Rape Awareness Week. The days from March 28 to April 7 at Davidson have been dedicated to increasing consciousness of sexual assaults among the school community in the hope of promoting discourse and achieving prevention.

“Our main objective is two-fold,” stated Amanda Mordavsky ’02, president of Davidson’s Rape Awareness Committee and coordinator of the week’s activities. “First, we want to create awareness about rape and sexual assault because it does happen, even at Davidson. Second, we want to cater more specifically to the needs of the survivors, so they can heal by sharing their experiences with others.”

The first objective will be met through various activities throughout Rape Awareness Week, including an outreach project to a local women’s shelter, and a discussion on violence and the media. Take Back the Night, a special presentation and open dialogue to occur Wednesday the fourth, will address the second objective. A self-defense training session and Nancy Hulse’s performance “A Rose by Any Other Name” were among the week’s other highlights.

Reports of sexual assault are relatively infrequent at Davidson. According to campus police records, two rapes have been reported in the past year. Three have been reported over the past five. But the reality is much more grim. As Mordavsky points out, when rape is concerned, truth does not lie in the numbers.

“People think Davidson is this small school that is wrapped in a bubble so nothing bad can happen to us,” she commented. “Unfortunately, that’s not true. We have an Honor Code that’s supposed to prevent stealing, yet bikes and other items are stolen almost weekly. Similarly, we think rape can’t happen on this campus because we’re at Davidson, and that doesn’t happen here. Well, that’s not true.”

Mordavsky suggests that while statistically the rape frequency might seem low, most rapes are never reported to begin with. She paints an unfortunately common scenario: “Imagine accusing a fellow classmate of rape, and what would happen to peoples’ perceptions of both of you. Some would immediately call the ‘guy’ a rapist, and some would immediately claim the ‘girl’ cried rape. It’s a hard situation for anyone to be in, so it makes it understandable why survivors are afraid to report what’s happened.”

Director of Public Safety and Police Sam McKelvey agrees that Davidson’s rape statistics might mislead. “I am skeptical that these numbers include every incident that occurred,” he said. “Nationally, rape is an under-reported crime. The reasons for that trend are varied. Law enforcement, educators, and mental health professionals are working hard to fix the problems. I see emotional and psychological factors as the largest influence in the decision to report a sexual offense.”

“This isn’t just a Davidson phenomenon,” echoed Mordavsky. “Across the world, men and women choose not to report what’s happened because they’re scared or embarrassed. We need to let these survivors know that what’s happened to them is nothing...”to be embarrassed about, and the only way to stop the rape cycle is to report every incident.” Rape Awareness Committee member Alyssa Chang ’02 suggests that the week’s activities will help victims overcome the trauma associated with reporting a rape. “Far too many women and men are attacked, harassed, abused, and degraded, whether at Patterson Court, in the dorms, or on the IMAC fields, to name a few spots where friends of mine have been assaulted,” she commented. “RAC raises questions that are sensitive, emotional, and sometimes politically unattractive, but that must be asked. Rape Awareness Week is a time to ask these questions, to draw attention to the shameful happenings that do indeed occur at Davidson College, and to raise awareness so that we can prevent more of these incidents in the future.”

While painful to relive, experiences shared by victims during Rape Awareness Week are deemed necessary by many to help change views toward sexual assault on campus and beyond. “It comes burdened with huge emotion,” reflected President Bobby Vagt on the matter of rape. “Many things we talk about become watered down in the process of discussion. But rape is an issue that, as it is discussed, allows people to see that it is much more pervasive than we are aware.”

Take Back the Night provides a key opportunity for discourse about rape by Davidson victims themselves. “This night is for individuals who have been raped, sexually assaulted, or abused, to break the silence by telling their stories,” commented Jen Frymiare ’02, member of the Rape Awareness Committee and head of First Responders, a student organization that responds to reports of sexual assault on campus. “At the end of the night, the people present tie red ribbons on their wrists to remind themselves and others that rape does happen. Afterwards, we meet outside the Union to tie ribbons onto a tree in remembrance of people we know who have been raped or assaulted.”

As Frymiare notes, all members of the Davidson community have a role in preventing rape from occurring in the future. “We hope to educate the campus about the realities of rape and sexual assault,” she commented. “We also hope to move people to action—to help stop rape and sexual assault at Davidson. We need everyone’s help to do this, men and women alike. Our battle to stop this type of violence is not a battle between the sexes. We need everyone’s cooperation and support.”

Beth Daniel

Thank You, Ambassadors!

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid would like to thank all the amazing student volunteers who made Junior Day on March 24 a success.

Adam Dutko
Kevin Epps
Kate Fiedler
Susan Vear
Desi Cooper
Mary Donoghue
Randy Skattum
Maggie McDougall
Maureen Keogh
Kendra Berner
Kristine Harrington
Mark Pustay
Nancy Kohler
Laura Denton
Mike Brady
Drew Devore
Jason Scott
Ross Fenimore
Megan Kota
Kristina Koul
Christiane Leisman
Lindsay Moore
Megan Shafer
Elizabeth Redpath
Amber Parke
Casey Sams
Kelly Carraway
Brandt Leibe
Rick Bold
Maria Tardugno
Laura Bradford
Paul Pineau
Jan Scott Swetenburg
Nick Bradham
Reggie McKoy
Vivian Fisher
Melanie Albert
Beth Gardner
Ellie Blackey
Kristin Lothman
Jennifer Kawwass
Christina Ritchie
Jessica Forsberg
Shannon Bishop
Amanda Mordavsky
Elisabeth Smith
Amanda Mildner
Liz Smith
And many more...

And our Senior Admission Fellows:
Cabot Earle, Laura Lothman, Travis Martz, Aaron Sundstrom, and Shaheen Counts

Our talented student body will be on display once again this weekend when we welcome our admitted students for Decision Davidson.

It’s a Great Day to be a Wildcat!