Increase diversity, improve our education — Let me preface this article by saying that I am nothing special. There are a lot of people at Davidson who have had tougher lives than I have. And outside of these cozy confines of higher learning, I have worked with people for whom every day is a struggle to survive and pay the rent. That being said, I am a minority. That’s right, look at the picture beside this article again. Despite what your mind tells you a minority should look like, I am one. My father and his family came to this country from Castro’s Cuba on November 11, 1961. My grandfather came to this country with absolutely nothing. Through hard work, he held a well-paying job for years and was fortunate enough to retire comfortably. My father studied to become a Protestant minister. Despite some preconceptions you may have of evangelical pastors as those wealthy, fire-eating televangelists, a pastor in eastern North Carolina does not make much money. We were not poor by any means. My father worked hard to make sure we had a house to live in and a few of the little things that make life enjoyable. However, I have distinct memories of asking my mom if we could go to the store and buy milk and her saying, “No honey. Not until the first of the month.” That was when my dad got paid. Why am I sharing all this? For two reasons. First, I believe Davidson needs people who have had all sorts of life experiences. My family has since moved up the economic ladder into the center of the middle class. As a result, I have lost some of my ability to represent a different perspective. To truly have fruitful discussions on issues in and out of class, a wide range of opinions must be represented. A class full of white, upper-middle-class students may display a variance in opinion. However, those that have experienced real hardships in life will not only widen the spectrum of opinions but also bring examples from their own pasts that can enliven discussions. While avoiding issues if they hurt “somebody” is easy, problems that affect friends are impossible to ignore. This school needs to do more to broaden its base of students. Ethnic and socio-economic diversity will do more than fulfill some ideological quota; it will improve each student’s perspective and, as a result, his character. Though this may seem unrelated, I also want to mention that I am a Republican. This is an important point because I think that on this campus, as well as across the nation, there is a stereotypical view of the political parties. One is supposedly on the poor minorities’ side, while the other represents wealthy businessmen. I hope one day I can contribute to breaking down this stereotype. Men like Rep. J.C. Watts and Alan Keyes are helping now, but I know that the more socio-economic and racial boundaries each political party crosses, the more they will each be judged on what they actually support—instead of on old stigmas. Hopefully y’all (yes, Cubans who grew up in the South can say “y’all”) will now have a better understanding of where I am coming from. I invite you to disagree with me, but judge what I write on my ideas—not on any pre-conceived notions you may have. If we offered each other the same courtesy while discussing divisive topics, who knows? We may even make some progress.

A letter to New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani

Dear Mr. Giuliani,

Throughout the recent tragedies, no public figure has been such a model offering hope to all Americans as you have. You were among the first people at ground zero. While President Bush’s whereabouts were still uncertain in the hours after the attacks, you were holding the first press conferences. You told us, as a nation, to stay calm and not panic. In the days after the attack, you were the one telling us to go back to our normal lives. For all that you have done for New York City, and for America, you have been overcome with praise from even your most outspoken opponents. But your idea to extend your term for several months beyond your scheduled departure in January, or to somehow overcome the term-limit laws and run for a third term as mayor, risks not only hurting your own reputation but also our entire democratic system. Right now, you are about as highly respected as a politician can be. Wherever you go you are lauded with praise, and you deserve every bit of it. However, is it not best for your future political career to go out on top? More time in office, during a period of recession, can only cause this sudden admiration to diminish. Much more importantly than your own reputation is the potential damage an extension of your term could do to the democratic process. No one man is so important in our country that election laws should be changed just to facilitate him staying in office. George Washington realized this fact. Rather than serving a third term as president as nearly everyone wanted him to do, Washington decided to step down. While there was no law mandating his decision, Washington knew that this country was greater than he was. Mr. Giuliani, New York is greater than you are. While I’m sure you genuinely believe that you are the best man to lead New York in its recovery, you are certainly not the only man capable of that job. Each of the three men who could become New York’s next mayor has the potential to be a great leader. Think of the situation after Franklin Roosevelt’s death at the height of World War II. Harry Truman was not regarded as nearly as strong a leader as FDR, yet history has told us that he still did an excellent job during that very difficult time. To you, Mr. Giuliani, I say this: follow your own advice, and let the city get back to normal. Let our democratic process survive this disaster unscathed by this horrible tragedy. It will be best for you, and best for our country.

Camaraderie at eating houses is slowly improving

Before arriving at Davidson, I pictured fraternities and sororities as ostentatious houses with velvet, high-backed chairs and cozy fireplaces. I always had heard those horror stories about sorority pledges that had to stand on a table while upperclassmen pointed out...All of her imperfections with a permanent marker. That’s when I swore off sororities. Fraternities, on the other hand, I never disputed. My dad was one of those elusive fraternity guys you see in movies or hear about in some college story. He was president and rush-chair of his fraternity. There are pictures of ski trips and pool parties with clean-cut frat guys in Lacoste shirts, madras shorts, and boat shoes. Every male in my family has been in a fraternity. The females in my family, on the other hand, attended women’s colleges. They were intellectuals who challenged the practicalities of sororities and fraternities. I knew that if I were to join a sorority, I would inevitably turn into one of those yippy, Texas sorority girls who concentrate more on social life than academics.

Davidson’s Greek system is unique. Over 62% of our students are members of a Patterson Court house; we’ve had more than 17 fraternities over the past 166 years. As an eating house member, I feel that the fraternities have a stronger sense of brotherhood than we do, and I am envious of that. After spending my summer at Ole Miss hanging out at a sorority house, my thoughts on sororities have changed. They aren’t as intimidating and old-fashioned, and I do wish that the eating houses had the same traditions as those yippy sororities. I like that the Warner bathroom is pink and that Rusk has its cheer painted on the walls. I love that Connor bombarded KA with food in the middle of Patterson Court last spring and that Turner is known for its outstanding community service. But I do wish that we had secret handshakes, pins, and that undeniable camaraderie that makes each of the fraternities so unique.

I’ve come to terms with my fears of sororities and learned that maybe my fantasized theories on fraternities were due to the legends from which they were established. But I’ve also recognized something more important. What we have here is small and progressing. The only way that it can strengthen is through student and alumni support.

Have you heard this one? “Young lady, you misspelled Pennsylvania on your ID card.” Yeah, people try some bold stuff with ID cards and driver’s licenses. But in the wake of the Sept. 11 tragedies in New York and Washington, many powerful people are thinking about a system that would eliminate the ability to fool people with false American identification. A recent push has National ID cards back in the limelight and on some politicians’ agendas. Supporters argue that having a standard identification system increases safety by keeping tabs on everyone in the country and keeping those who do not belong in the US out, as well as combating underage fun. These arguments are tough to debate. It’s true that if all American citizens had the same piece of plastic in their wallet or purse that said who they are, their date of birth, eye color, social security number, thumbprint scan, and driver’s license information, well then we’d feel pretty safe, wouldn’t we?

I don’t think I would feel too safe. We live in a federal system. The politicians pushing the issue and the companies like Oracle trying to implement it want to turn all this identification stuff to the national government. Driver’s licenses are done by states and social security numbers are done by the national government and a good way to keep yourself from losing everything is by keeping it separate. If you lose this card, then you have basically surrendered all of your information to whoever finds it. And let me remind you folks, the rest of the world doesn’t have an honor code. And it’s not just cards that would be vulnerable. Don’t forget that all of your information would be concentrated in one easy-to-crack government file. Did you see The Net?

Another problem with the ID system is that it is another example of America letting the terrorists get the best of us. Like I said before, we’ve had our government for a long time and to sacrifice our traditions is kind of letting them get what they want. The Atlanta Constitution reported last week that 70 percent of 1,200 people surveyed supported the card. Let me tell you something: they are wrong. If we choose national ID cards, we have fallen even more into the clutches of the terrorists. Let’s not get too reactionary and start aborting the freedoms that make this country so damn cool. Besides, how can I be the sketchy kid at the frat house pretending to be 22?

Moral leader, not Jackson, needed for Taliban talks

It was only a matter of time before Jesse Jackson could find himself in the national spotlight again. This time, Mr. “Civil Rights” was considering whether to travel to Afghanistan to act as a mediator between the United States government and the ruling Taliban regime in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. As is common with any news on Jesse Jackson, the facts were muddled and unclear. While Jackson claims that the Taliban actually invited him as a mediator, the Taliban claims that he called them. When asked about the matter on CNN, Jackson said, “It is not important how the contact was made, but that the contact was made.”

Let’s make sure not to forget Jackson’s last debacle. Last April, the news was leaked that Jackson actually has a two-year-old illegitimate child. When asked whether he lied about it, his response was a flat “No.” Considering this absurd reply and Jackson’s decreasing popularity, there is actually a plausible reason to hold the Taliban’s word against Jackson’s. Even though Jackson decided not to go to Afghanistan, just the fact that he was considering the option should be enough to infuriate Americans. Jesse Jackson is hardly the moral leader he claims to be. Although I would support Jackson’s efforts for peace, I would be embarrassed to see him sent as the American representative for the cause. Not only is he a hypocritical minister, but he also has lied directly to the American people through the media.

Although I fervently oppose using Jesse Jackson as a mediator, the idea of such a plan is becoming more and more critical. Both governments are inevitably acting out of anger and resentment, as much as they may try not to. The idea of a third party to act as a mediator between the two sides could be beneficial.