By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

One could call it a folk form born out of oppression. It could also pass for a spiritual exercise that evolved into ritual. Both descriptions, however, would ignore the strong elements of craft and showmanship demonstrated by this unique musical style.

Ladysmith Black Mambazo, the musical ambassadors of South Africa, performed last Tuesday, February 6, in front of a sold-out Love Auditorium. The audience listened and watched as the group sang and danced to songs about their homeland, their travels, and the cause of peace. The all-male troupe performed their entire set a cappella, as is characteristic of their music. Their unique mix of voices highlighted the strong, open harmonies used in their songs. The group is extremely bass-heavy, with single or double voices filling out the baritone, tenor, and treble parts. This arrangement lent a deep, rich sound to their singing and grounded the pulsating choruses against Joseph Shabalala’s lilting improvisation.

As a form, Ladysmith’s music stands somewhere between the simple melodies and choruses of folk songs and the droning, rhythmic harmonies of chant. Though harmonically simple and repetitive, each song employed many rhythmic permutations. The harmonic simplicity also lent itself to a lot of improvisation, whether by the soloist or by the singers themselves, who occasionally shouted, whistled, or chirped for emphasis. This musical palette also served as the background for the group’s spectacular dancing. Emphatic and expressive, the men of Ladysmith jumped, kicked, and swayed across the stage. Often they took turns, each seeming to want to outdo the former.

Coming from a climate of political turmoil and change, Ladysmith drew much of the material for their songs from life in South Africa. Both in English and in Zulu, some of the topics included the end of the apartheid regime, the institution of democracy, and an ode in praise of the new parliament. Showing their deep religious roots, two of the songs were also in the form of prayers, one in thanks for safe travel and one asking for peace.

The strength and simplicity of the singing, the expressiveness of the dance, and the gravity of the texts combined to give the impression that the audience was witnessing an intimate moment of deep communal significance. Ladysmith’s performance drew the audience into their world — but only up to a certain point. Just as one felt included in the ritual, they would crack a sly joke or poke fun at the “language barrier” separating the American audience from their Zulu traditions. They are, after all, still performers, and we had come to see them.

Ladysmith’s traditional form of music is called isicathamiya and originated in the mines of South Africa. After a week of labor, the workers would entertain themselves with songs and “tip toe” dancing, so called because it was not supposed to disturb the camp guards. Once they returned to their homes, the form spread and grew. Now, Ladysmith Black Mambazo tours the globe as one of the premier African groups in the world. After 30 albums and one Grammy award, they still bring the same passion for their music to the stage.

Chen plays with mesmerizing grace
By CHRISTINA PIKE
Special Contributor

Last Monday, February 5, pianist Wendy Chen performed in Hodson Hall for a packed theater. Part of the 2000-2001 Artist Series, Ms. Chen has been competing since she was 14, and has performed with many illustrious groups such as the Boston Pops. After arriving too late to get a seat for the first piece, I, along with several other latecomers, listened to the beautiful strains of Chopin as they filtered through the theater’s wooden doors. It was incredible. All fidgeting stopped as we leaned in to hear every note.

Although listening outside was a pleasant experience, watching her play was mesmerizing. Looking up at her from my front row seat, I was struck by the amount of movement she allowed herself. Her body flowed with each piece, feet moving to the beat, arms gracefully drifting over the keyboard. She seemed to dance to the music as she played it. Her intense emotion was evident onher face. During the Allegro, her forehead was a mass of wrinkled anger as she beat down on the keys. In the next movement, she transformed into the perfect image of peace. The emotion extended out into the audience. The fact that the Tempo di walzer lentissimo movement of Prokofiev’s Sonata lulled more than one head to sleep does not insult her talent. Rather, it is to her credit that she could create so peaceful an atmosphere by hitting metal strings with hammers. The tranquility of this slow movement was shattered by the fiery tempo and tremendous crescendos of the Vivace. All were held spellbound as her hands flew over the keyboard. I have never heard anyone play so fast and so beautifully. At any moment, it seemed her fingers would lose control and fly into discordant harmony, but every note was perfect. After each piece, her graceful bowing, one hand resting softly on the piano, seemed to be a continuation of her playing. The music did not stop when she took her hands away, but lasted throughout the hearty round of applause, the three bows, and delicately faded away as she glided off stage. I doubt that any who went could forget such a performance.

Ladysmith Black Mambazo brings African folk to Davidson

Ladysmith Black Mambazo feels a nizing to their traditional songs.

Wednesday, February 14, 2001

Music today - great bands get lost in the shuffle

By Thomas Cullen
Staff Writer

I’m not claiming to be the first person to bash today’s music. Many people do it in many publications. I just want to add my two cents. For the most part, the music of 2001 is stagnant, meaningless, and terrible. I have not quite discovered how we let such fools sell so many records, but I’m working on it. Yet, there are a few bands that are staying true to themselves and doing what they want regardless of how popular their music is. But I’ll get to those bands later.

First, I'll examine the boy bands: I’m not going to boldface lie. Some of their music is catchy and fun, but the time when I get really angry is when I see interviews with these people. They always claim that their newest record is “harder” or “more mature.” These statements are blatantly false. The beats and topics that were on their first albums are still there and will continue to be there until they vanish into oblivion and resurface overweight and addicted to heroin on Behind the Music.

Rap-rock is a complete curse. Not only do I have to listen to Fred Durst rant about how sweet his new ride is, but his lyrics are also accompanied by the painful slapping of instruments that his band calls music. It is really a sad spectacle to behold. Just like anyone else who tries for long enough, the rap-rock bands occasionally produce a decent song, but for the most part, I question what they are doing.

With all the musical drivel floating around, bands that produce noteworthy music get forgotten. Pearl Jam ruled the music scene as grunge kings, but they still put out quality albums. Granted, their last album, Binaural, was a little different, but it is still a lot better than many albums that rule today’s charts. They still sell out major venues, and they still do what they want to do.

Another band that gets lost is the Foo Fighters. They first received notice when people found out that Dave Grohl fronted the band. Then, they went on to release three sweet albums. Many critics talk about how great they are, and I just want to encourage people to check them out.

I’m not here to say that everything out today is horrible. I just want to make it clear that there are bands that are great and will continue to be great. Yet, they get lost in the shuffle of information about how the latest boy band is “different” and what cheesy pop-culture couple is about to break up. Honestly, who cares? Seriously, there are bands that are worthy of praise today; don’t forget them.