Meet with students to discuss upcoming project

By Burcin Harpin
Sports Editor

Chances are Rebecca West, a writer for the New Yorker in the 1940s, never knew she would be a matchmaker over 50 years later. A relatively unknown journalist of her time, West covered a Greenville, S.C., lynching trial in 1947 and wrote a vivid narrative for the New Yorker that detailed the mob lynching of a black man named Willie Earle and the subsequent acquittal of all 31 men who had been charged in his killing. The trial had been a farce, West implied with frequent sarcasm, and a victory for Southern justice.

Fifty years later, Rebecca West and her story have brought together an unlikely trio—two independent filmmakers from Greenville and Davidson’s Batten Professor Steve Isenberg. Isenberg stumbled upon a reprint of the New Yorker article in an antique bookshop two years ago and was immediately intrigued by the story and West’s poignant account.

“I found it completely by accident,” said Isenberg, a former editor of Newsday and certified New Yorker. “I saw that the story took place in South Carolina and so I decided to read it since I was coming down here. But then I really got into it and said, ‘Wow, this is good.’”

Isenberg decided West’s piece was perfect for his literary journalism class, not only for its well-crafted prose but also for the issues it raised about race and the segregated culture of the mid-century South. Meanwhile, unbeknownst to Isenberg, the West piece was at the heart of Greenville natives John Sexton and Jeff Sumerel’s research for a film the two were planning about the lynching trial.

Not until after Isenberg came south did he discover that some folks shared his affinity for West and her report. He found out about Sexton and Sumerel through The Greenville News, which profiled their film project last year. Fueled by his own curiosity and his old Newsday instincts, Isenberg set out to find the filmmakers.

Isenberg soon called them, but his enthusiasm for a story that Sexton and Sumerel considered obscure at best surprised—and even puzzled—them. “We thought we should check this guy out,” joked Sumerel, who along with Sexton visited Isenberg’s class two weeks ago. “A former editor of Newsday wanted to talk about our movie? We didn’t know who this guy was.”

Isenberg invited the filmmakers to his class after spending the afternoon with them in Greenville touring the story’s landmarks. “It occurred to me that these guys were still grappling with how to make this movie,” said Isenberg. “I could tell they were genuinely interested in how people read this Rebecca West piece and reacted to it.

“I thought a visit from these guys would make the story come to life and help everybody think about not only the Rebecca West account but about what somebody would do to translate a story into another medium.”

In the class’s last meeting before

---

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989
ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A
103 PENINSULA PENINSULA, EXIT
AUTHORIZED ZEISS VARILUX VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE 28 " CATAWBA AVE
SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY
CORNELIUSthe Easter break, Sexton and Sumerel talked for over an hour with Isenberg’s students in the filmmakers’ first meeting with any college audience. “Getting the viewpoint of literary journalism students today is very important to us in deciding how we’re going to translate this story and these characters to our audience,” said Sexton, who scribbled notes as students volunteered opinions on everything from Rebecca West to why Sexton and Sumerel should make a movie about themselves.

Sexton and Sumerel, both veteran filmmakers and performers, valued the visit not so much as a chance to tell their story but as a chance to brainstorm with people who knew the background well. “What this does for a writer is it gives you a chance to defend questions about your project,” said Sumerel, whose scriptwriting duties continue expanding. “If you can’t defend the questions being asked, then you need to do some more work. You have to go through that process. You have to be able to bounce things off colleagues, strangers, and friends.”

Out of a lynching trial that involved so many different personalities in such a tense environment came so many different stories, the filmmakers explained, that they have struggled in deciding which angle would make the most effective movie. “We don’t want to do another white-man-kills-black-man movie,” Sexton said to the class. “That’s been done. We want to tell people to talk, to speak out and express feelings they’ve kept covered up.”

Sexton and Sumerel will take students’ ideas, questions, and suggestions back to Greenville and integrate them into what has become almost 15 years worth of research. And there’s more to come. “To see a real project come out of this, it’ll be at least a year,” said Sexton, who hopes to have a shooting script for the film ready a year from now. Funding and people’s availability will also dictate the production schedule. Already in the works is a short trailer, which they will shoot in the coming months and will debut at the Spoleto arts festival in Charleston, S.C., this summer. They plan to use the public’s response to the trailer as a test of the project’s viability.

But even their visit here went a long way in reassuring Sexton and Sumerel of their project’s merit and potential. “We couldn’t have spent a better afternoon,” said Sexton. “This is a great investment for us. We obviously ran into Steve for a reason. And getting another perspective from the class, hearing ideas that we might not have even thought of, was extremely valuable.”

Fraternities - Sororities - Clubs - Student Groups

Student Groups earn $1,000 - $2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfinder.com three-hour fundraising event. No sales required. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today!

Contact Campusfinder.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit www.campusfinder.com

Creative Account Executive needed for busy Lake Norman area agency. Manage accounts, develop marketing plans, write copy for ads, radio and cable. Excellent communication & organizational skills a must. Must be able to multi-task. Knowledge of printing and/or media a plus. Four-year degree in related field required. Recent graduates are encouraged to apply. Fax resume to 704.886.2507.