Swit PERSPECTIVES

Academics are only part of our liberal arts education

Top ten reasons why

Professor forgot life is about more than studying

Amidst the stressful exam season (otherwise known as “the holidays”), I was exposed to the most awful instance of insensitivity
I have ever encountered from Davidson’s faculty. Despite not always receiving the best grades, I have always been impressed by
professors’ abilities to not only teach but to relate to their students. Most of them understand that we have a
right to a life outside of class. After all, Davidson’s academic reputation may have drawn me to this college, but
the friendships I’ve made are what keep me here.

That is why I was shocked by what a good friend told me the other day. First of all, he’s
a music major. As a history major (what I would consider a “real” major), I always thought of music majors
as people who sit around playing a clarinet. As someone who listened to Schumann and Mozart all day with a
big grin on their faces while us “real” students worked diligently in the library. I was wrong.

While I am down on Patterson Court or at the gym, or just sitting on my futon watching a movie
(they have other uses than hooking up), he is at the music library studying. I never knew someone could listen
to music that much. And I don’t mean he sits around and hears great classical music. He has to listen
to hours upon hours of symphonies and sonatas because if he doesn’t memorize them, he will fail. I had heard
him complain about music history before (a two-semester course that all music majors must pass), but he told me something
very specific after meeting with his advisor that I feel obligated to share.

My friend went to him with specific complaints concerning the time constraints of his music class. Pointing out that he
desired to have friends and occasionally relax, my friend expected a sympathetic ear and some helpful advice. Instead, he was
essentially told that those things were not important. His advisor told him that students come to Davidson to study, not
to make friends. Referring to the fact that he himself used to get up at 8 a.m. and work until
midnight while at college, he indicated that my friend should do likewise. He felt it was “absurd” that studying for
any length of time in any class in your major would not be completely enjoyable.

Now, my friend did not tell me to write this article. But after reading the College’s lofty Statement of Purpose,
I felt compelled to write it. The Purpose reads in part, “Davidson has chosen to be a liberal arts college,
to maintain itself as a residential community of scholars, to emphasize the teaching responsibility of all professors and to ensure
the opportunity for personal relationships between students and teachers. It is vital that all students in every class know and
study under mature and scholarly teachers who are able and eager to provide for each of them stimulation, instruction and
guidance... [the] College also requires physical education, provides for competitive athletics, and encourages a variety of social, cultural and service
activities... In the selection of faculty, the college seeks men and women who respect the purpose of the College.”

All of the talented men and women who have taught me have, for the most part, abided by this purpose.
I just hope that all of Davidson’s professors would follow these goals to the same extent. This is not an
attack on our faculty, merely a reminder to professors that students deserve to have a life. Anything else is “absurd.”

What are efforts against grade inflation really about?

In last week’s issue of The Davidsonian, Catherine Foster pointed out that there is a “severe shortage of ‘A’s here,”
in part because of the administration’s fear of grade inflation. In reading her article, I was reminded of another article
I read several weeks ago in the New York Times concerning the rampant grade inflation that has occurred at Harvard
University over the past several years. A recent study conducted by Harvard reports that over the past several years, close
to half of all final grades were either A’s or A-‘s.

The problem with grade inflation is that it makes it impossible to distinguish between those students who have done good
work and those students who have done truly exceptional work. As a student, I can say that I would love
to know that just being in the top half of a class guaranteed me an A. However, we must realize
that if Davidson were to have grade inflation to this degree, we would not be encouraging students to do their
best work.

Although it may be discouraging to know that students at other colleges and universities are receiving higher grades for work
of equal or lesser quality, Davidson students should take pride in the fact that, for the most part, our work
is evaluated on a higher standard. At other schools, the average and the exceptional are grouped together. At Davidson, we
are rewarded for striving to do our best.

While Davidson’s faculty and administration should be applauded for bucking this all too common trend in higher education, they must
also make sure that Davidson graduates are not at a disadvantage when it comes to applying for jobs and to
graduate schools. The College must make sure that companies and graduate schools know exactly how our grading system compares to
that of other schools. Only then will the extra effort we are encouraged to give be truly rewarded.

By ALI FITZGERALD
Guest Columnist

The year was 1995: I wasIn the eighth grade, I stood a whopping 4’11” and wore purple knee-high socks in
what was a devastating attempt to be Cher from the movie “Clueless.” In all honesty, Steve Urkel was more my
soul mate than my Saturday night. But even though I donned New Kids on the Block ponytail holders and frequently
walked into the boys' bathrooms by accident, I still had my lovely pearly whites, right? Wrong. Yes, the day that
I had to get a root canal was a sad moment. The “operation” was the most excruciating couple of hours
of my young life. Until the day of my first exam here at Davidson. Then, I truly saw the kind
of medieval torture that I had only read about. So in a mildly philanthropic effort to impart my post-periodontal wisdom,
I have compiled a list of reasons why “A root canal sucks less than an exam.”

10. The sound of drilling isn’t nearly as disarming as listening to the snorting, sneezing, and foot-stomping of the sweaty
guy sitting in the desk behind you.
9. A root canal impedes eating, whereas a typical exam diet consists of inordinate amounts of the following: Jujyfruits, beef
jerky, a three-week-old block of cheddar, and those yummy little apricots they sell at the Union.
8. The dentist’s chair is just so much more comfortable than the chairs at the Chambers Building.
7. During the root canal, the dentist says reassuring things like, “Don’t worry,” and “This won’t hurt.” However, during the
exam, the stressed-out girl next to you says troublesome things like, “I am going to fail... WE ARE ALL GOING
TO FAIL!” and “If my parents make me go back to that mental asylum after this...”
6. While waiting in the dentist’s office, you get to read their 1985 issue of “Home and Garden,” which features
an exposé on Donny Osmond’s petunias. And this is still better than reading the 800-page book of Theologians for your
religion class.
5. The dentist shows you to your very own room, unlike exams, when you would shove your best friend into
Love Auditorium just so that you can get the room with the rolling chair and dry erase board.
4. You leave a root canal still feeling numb; you leave an exam... Oh, I guess they’re the same for
this one.
3. YOU GET LAUGHING GAS AT THE DENTIST’S OFFICE.
2. During a root canal, you don’t have to look at your watch every five minutes (Too much laughing gas
to lift your arm).
And the number one reason why a root canal sucks less than an exam is...
1. Quite simply, YOU CANNOT FLUNK A ROOT CANAL.

Lately, it seems that drinking and alcohol have become a pressing issue on the Davidson campus. Somewhere amid the void
of one cocktail and one cocktail too many, something has gone terribly wrong. While it is easy to look beyond
our student body’s callous attitude directed towards drinking, I am continually reminded of the family and the Christmas that I
once had. I am a victim of careless drinking and its absolute ramifications.

Cannon Hodge ‘04’s Christmas used to be one of those holidays when the entire Hodge Family (Daddy, Mommy, Trey, Laurie,
Daniel, Grammommy, Aunt Anne, cousin Joel, and me) would camp out in our house on Christmas Eve, and hundreds of
presents spilled from beneath the glittering Christmas tree. We had an ideal family; we sang Christmas carols around the piano,
hung homemade ornaments from the Christmas tree, and all of the children had matching Christmas pajamas. Then, one night changed
everything. It was the evening of March 17, 1988, Saint Patrick’s Day. My perfect Hodge family lost its eldest daughter
and my sister, Laurie. Laurie was only a senior in high school and to drive home drunk never seemed dangerous
to my sister or any of her friends. But that one decision changed everything for my family and me.

Everyone had monogrammed stockings. We no longer hung any stockings on the mantle at Christmas. Instead, we changed our traditions
completely. My parents could not spend another Christmas vacation in our home, so we went to Grammommy’s log cabin in
New Mexico instead. We found comfort in the mountains and were not continually haunted by the fear of another late-night
phone call. My family was smaller and wary of losing each other. In time, we became brave enough to spend
Christmas at home again. But we never hung the stockings.

Recently, I’ve noticed that many Davidson students handle drinking and its repercussions insensitively. I rarely hear someone volunteer to be
a designated driver; instead, I listen to people brag about their ability to drive drunk. I always hear about people
passing out or throwing up on campus, but I seldom hear about anyone caring for them or taking them home.
Underage drinking does not bother me. If we are old enough to be drafted, vote, and go to jail, then
we should be old enough to drink with maturity. I do, however, have a problem with people acting irresponsibly. Had
Laurie’s boyfriend called a cab, I would have a sister, my family would not have an aching paranoia of late-night
phone calls, and my brothers would not be so overbearing.

It is Christmas time. Soon, exams will be behind us and we will be home with our families. During this
time, remember how important it is to take care of each other and yourself. Nothing is scarier than those unforgettable
words, “Good evening and I am sorry to call so late. This is Officer Jones from the police...”
