By ANNA JENSEN

Special Contributor

As a Service Chair of Warner Hall, when I attended last week’s Celebration of Service, I found out there that
60% of Davidson’s campus participated in service. Comparing that to the 100% participation rate we had in Warner Hall last
semester, I thought that seemed a little sparse. But then President Vagt went on to explain that at a university
like Princeton, they struggle to get 10% of their students involved in extra-curricular community involvement.

So my question is, who isn’t doing service? 70% of women on Davidson’s campus are in an eating house, just
under 50% of men are in one of the fraternities and we all have service standards to meet over the
course of the semester. Assuming every member of every Patterson Court house was involved in service throughout the semester, as
our standards aspire to encourage, that in itself should be 60% of our campus. Do you know what goes on
down the hill when there’s not a party?

Warner Hall has had a year that marked a new commitment to service on Patterson Court. Among numerous activities for
members, Warner Hall continued a spring version of our Fall Semester Finals Candy Cane sale, selling Candy-Grams and Flowers to
be delivered for Valentine’s Day, raising about $200.

In conjunction, our new exciting undertaking this semester was that of assisting sophomore member Stepho Connolly in beginning her newly
funded service project, The 1000 Paper Crane Project. Warner Hall is currently making thousands of origami paper cranes to be
donated to various children at hospitals suffering from terminal illness. We hope to continue this involvement into next year, combining
not only the making of origami but also the delivery and volunteer work at local hospitals.

Along these lines, we chose a cause for the money raised by the Valentine’s Day Fundraiser and our first 1000
Cranes. North Mecklenburg resident Edher Soule suffered this Fall from a brain hemorrhage. Warner Hall not only donated our $200
towards his medical expenses, but also set up a table in Chambers to collect donations, raising close to another $100
in two days. More importantly, at the table, volunteers also taught students, faculty, and staff to make their own paper
cranes. We feel that the simple act of creation is in itself not only a healing project, but also a
personal gift that reaches beyond monetary support. The promise of 1000 Cranes indicates a miracle in Japanese tradition. The project
is something that everyone in this community can benefit from, whether they receive a miracle or allow someone who is
suffering to believe again in one.

More importantly, we are not the only house on Patterson Court devoted to service. Each house has their own service
chair and service requirement and many activities going on every week. Patterson Court Council members are involved directly in Davidson’s
community, like Turner House’s After-After program at Ada Jenkins, or Rusk and Kappa Sigma’s Home Runs for Habitat. Service is
also crucial on the national level, such as Kappa Alpha and Connor raising thousands of dollars for Muscular Dystrophy through
the KArnival and breast cancer research with the Bosom Buddies dinner. Yes, 60% is a lot more than 10% participation,
but 60% is a lot less than 100%. Whether you’re a social organization member or an independent, what are you
doing with your free time?

Our purpose is to use the true story of Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes to inspire one person to
create change, and to share traditions that are cherished by all cultures. To help out with the crane project, contact
Stepho Connolly, or to donate money to Friends of Edher, contact Anna Jensen.

Kappa Sigma hosts successful brother/faculty dinner, looks forward to next year

By Sam DuPont Special Contributor

The Kappa Sigma Fraternity held their spring faculty dinner on April 26. Approximately thirty faculty appeared for hamburgers and hot
dogs and to share tidbits of their wisdom, off the record of course. This was a very successful event as
the students strive to further their relationships with professors out of the classroom. Dr. Malcolm Partin was particularly jovial in
his thoughts about the occasion: “The food was first rate (congratulations to the artists of the grill), the welcome was
warm, and I haven’t seen that many dressed up students in the same place in dog’s years.” I hope that
all sentiments from the faculty who were there are this enthusiastic, as I know the brothers were just as appreciative
of the event as Dr. Partin. Patterson Court houses are required by PCC to host a dinner of this sort,
but after this experience it is my contention that it should be thought of as a privilege and not a
burden. Again, thanks to all who participated, and I hope that next autumn’s event is as much a success.

MONDAY

Interactive Games Will Be in the College Union ALL DAY! Come take a breather from finals or just have some
fun. Games include: Indoor Basketball games, Putting Greens, Pinball Machines, Video Games, Foosball, Air Hockey, Darts, and many more... No
money required! Place: Games will be placed throughout the campus center Time: 10am - 10pm

TUESDAY

“The Last 21-year-old night” Place: C. Shaw Smith room Time: 10pm

WEDNESDAY

Outdoor movie at dusk

THURSDAY

Senior Class Party featuring Right On! Place: behind senior apartments Time: 10pm - 2am

FRIDAY

Senior Soiree This event will feature the musical talents of seniors from the Class of 2001 Place: C. Shaw Smith
room Time: 8pm This event is sponsored by Prof. Milton Crotts and the Music Department

SATURDAY

Cast Iron Filter Place: C. Shaw Smith room Time: 10pm
