The Davidsonian - Wednesday, April 4, 2001

International correspondence: Hunt and Abdella swap insights

By Martha Hunt
Arts & Living Editor

Howdy folks. Looks like you’ve managed to sift your way through all the chaff and arrive at the most scintillating
part of the Davidsonian: a spine-tingling tell-all from a student just like you. Yes, one of those people you probably
pass every day on your way to class. Who knows? You’ve more than likely bumped trays with her in the
cafeteria line. To many, she’s just another face in the crowd, but you know better. You rush to pick up
the latest Davidsonian to see if, just possibly, that intriguing girl has been profiled. You’re in luck! Read on, and
you'll have a story to match with that visage.

Although I’ve been on the sub-free hall with Amrote since August, the year has flown by, taking with it many
opportunities to get to know her better. That’s one thing I love about doing these interviews - it’s a fun
way to make new friends. I met up with Amrote on Sunday afternoon, and we decided to hang out in
the lounge for a bit. A few people were already there, flipping channels on the tube, but that didn’t stop
me from having a great conversation with a very cool freshman (oops, I meant first-year student).

Me: Hey there Amrote.
Amrote Abdella: Hi Martha.
MH: Thanks so much for letting me interview you.
AA: No problem.
MH: This will be a lot of fun. I hardly ever see you!
AA: Yeah, I know. We should get together and speak French sometime.
MH: Well, let’s start with the basics. I take it you’re a freshman?
AA: Yep. Class of 2004.
MH: Any idea yet on what your major might be?
AA: I really don’t know. I guess maybe political science. My interests tend to be in that area.
MH: Very nice. Now, I know you’re an international student, but where is home for you?
AA: Ethiopia.
MH: Wow. Did you come to Davidson directly from there or were you in the States before college?
AA: I was in Washington, DC for three years.
MH: See what I mean? So where did you grow up?
AA: Ethiopia.
MH: So your reason for coming to the US was -
AA: Education.
MH: Ah. What was your favorite game to play when you were little?
AA: (smiles) Oh, I loved playing hide-and-seek.
MH: A classic in any culture. If you could relive any moment or period from your life, what would it
be?
AA: Oh, wow. That’s hard. Hmmm. (thinks for a while) I know. My first writing competition award, in 1997. I
wrote an essay on youth for a nationwide competition. It was pretty cool.
MH: Sounds like it. What motivates you to work hard and do a good job?
AA: Just the thought of being somebody someday; in a word, success.
MH: And what would your definition of success be?
AA: If I’m able to finish 4 years of college, get a decent job, and at the same time help
my family - I'd call that success.
MH: What’s your best stress reliever?
AA: Swimming.
MH: I saw you volunteering at the Multicultural Kids’ Day. It looked like you were having fun.
AA: Oh, man, that was so much fun. I loved it. Except there was this one obnoxious kid, who was
giving me a hard time about the Mexican maracas we made. He kept saying “I’m gonna need a hearing aid
from all this!” He yelled it over and over and the rest of the day acted like he had lost
his hearing... yeah. I was just like, “OK kid. You. Shut up.” (laughs) Really, it was fun. I think the
parents enjoyed it too.
MH: I think it was well-received by little and big. What advice would you give to kids as they get
bigger?
AA:Be able to make your own decisions. Because when you can do that, you learn to be responsible.

MH: If you could do anything without failing, what would you do?

AA: Whoa. Um... (thinks for a long time). I don’t know. Uh... I really don’t know. Bungee jump—never do it!

MH: Who is the most influential person in your life?

AA: My parents. I call them at least once every two weeks.

MH: What principles do you live by? What kinds of things guide you to the actions you take?

AA: I think the most important thing in my life is respect—for myself and for other people.

MH: What kind of culture shock did you have to deal with?

AA: Really just the culture in general. It’s so different.

MH: I lived in France for three years in high school, and being there gave me a really different perspective
on the US. I know that as an international student, you’ve got the advantage of an “outsider” look on America.
Anything in particular that you’ve noticed?

AA: I think I would ask why Americans, overall, aren’t interested in international things.

MH: Yeah. That’s definitely something I dealt with living in Europe. I’d come back to the States for vacation and
nobody wanted to hear about France.

MH: Would you rather shave your head or stand on top of Chambers in your underwear?

AA: Ah. Shave my head. Definitely. Are you kidding me? (laughs)

MH: That’s funny. The guys I’ve interviewed haven’t skipped a beat in choosing the Chambers option.

AA: Oh no. Whoa. I'd stick with shaving my head.

MH: Must be a gender thing. When you don’t have homework, how do you like to spend your time?

AA: Let’s see. Sleep? Definitely. Or hang out with friends.

MH: What's the dumbest thing you’ve ever done?

AA: Hmmm. Telling my high school principal that I hated the school and hated him personally, because of his ignorance
towards students. Now that was the dumbest thing I’ve ever done.

MH: Do you have any nicknames?

AA: “Baby”. That’s from back home. And “Winta”. It means “desire”—my parents gave me that one.

MH: How long has it been since you were home?

AA: It’s going on three years now.

MH: Wow. France is home for me and I haven’t been back in about two years now. It feels like
forever...

AA: Yeah, you must miss it a lot.

MH: I do. I really do. You must miss your home tons. When will you get to go back?

AA: I think maybe this summer.

MH: Awesome. OK, Amrote, here’s a really serious question. I want you to think very carefully before answering: if you
were a hotdog, and you were starving, would you eat yourself?

AA: Yeah. Ha! (laughs) Yeah—that’s a very serious question!

MH: Imagine that our dorm is on fire, and you are scrambling to get out the door and down the
stairs. What would you grab to take with you?

AA: (thinks) My wallet would be the first thing. And then my family picture.

MH: What aggravates you the most in life?

AA: When people talk just for the sake of talking, when they really don’t have anything to say.

MH: How would you define your sense of humor?

AA: A mixture of corny and all-out mean-spiritedness. (smiles, and laughs)

MH: Well, I think that’s about it. Here’s one last question before you go. I’m conducting a bit of a
survey: do you read the Davidsonian?

AA: No.

MH: Oh well. I can appreciate honesty. But I’m sure she’ll be reading this one!
