THE Davidsonian

New WebTree fruitful

By Nick Asma and Emily Drew
Senior Staff Writers

After experiencing numerous delays and problems during registration last year, an updated WebTree system was implemented for Spring ’02 registration.

Students were encouraged to register online before the final deadline, November 14, to avoid system overload. Scheduled time slots for registration were assigned by last name to further improve efficiency.

The online registration process has greatly improved the quickness and convenience from the traditional bubble-sheet method. Students have already noticed the improvements.

After filling out his Spring registration online, Seth Davis ’02 noted, “It didn’t take more than 10 minutes, as opposed to the hour that it took me last year. This year seems faster overall.”

Registrar Hansford Epes points out that the accuracy of the process has greatly improved as well. The WebTree, for example, greets students by name and verifies the CRN so that students are alerted to possible errors.

Additionally, the online method is able to easily include students who are off campus. “We no longer are receiving crumpled paper bubble sheets from all over the world—often past the registration deadline,” says Epes.

After last spring’s registration delays, the staff at ITS developed improvements in the WebTree program. The program now operates under a more powerful server and has been changed for greater efficiency.

The Registrar’s Office has worked with departmental chairs and faculty to encourage students to register early and avoid an overload of system users on the last night before the WebTree closes.

“There is little that can be done, however,” notes Epes, “that would allow a couple of hundred people to be using WebTree simultaneously without the kind of severe slowdown—gridlock—that we had last spring.”

The length of the registration period itself has been doubled this year to help prevent such a situation.

Those students who chose to register early have noticed the ease and speed of the process. Blair Hance ’04 said, “I thought it worked really well. It was convenient to do it on my own time-frame.”

Although changes have been made in the computer format, registration is still based on the random lottery in which everyone is assigned one class before anyone has a chance at a second class.

SGA invites you to SGA Day

The SGA will host its annual SGA Day Friday, Nov. 16 in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.

Students will have an opportunity to sign up to work for an SGA committee. They will also have an opportunity to meet their senators, all of whom will be in attendance Friday. The SGA will serve free hamburgers and hot dogs, and award gift certificates. Those who sign up for an SGA committee will be eligible for a drawing at the end of the day.

Q: Who are the world students at Davidson?

Q: How can you get involved in international education at Davidson?

Together

Davidson College Celebrates International Education Week

The Dean Rusk Program promotes international awareness through on-campus programming and by granting over $86,000 for student travel abroad last year. The SAC provides speakers, Model UN, the TP and study abroad programs.

108 international students, citizens of 45 countries, study at Davidson. They are supported by the International Student Advisor, Sherri Spillman, and the Davidson International Association, DIA.

Q: How can you internationalize Davidson on and off campus?

65% of Davidson students study abroad in 46 countries.

Foreign language and cultural diversity requirements complement the International Studies Concentration, including over 200 courses. See Dr. Appleyard for info.