THE Davidsonian

Granian rocks the Smith Room

By Liz Smith
Staff Writer

Touring behind their latest CD, Hang Around, the band Granian performed Saturday, Oct. 6 in the Smith Room of the Alvarez College Union. This event, sponsored by the Union Board Concert Committee, drew a more subdued, but nonetheless appreciative, crowd. Most patrons settled on the balcony bar stools or on chairs strewn about the ground floor. Regarding the eclectic make-up of those in attendance, sophomore Megan Kotarecounts, “I was excited to see such a diverse group of people at the show, some chilling on the balcony and some dancing up front like Maggie [McDougall] and me.”

Originally hailing from New Jersey and New York, Granian is comprised of Garen Gueyikian (lead vocals and guitars), Graycon Legere (drums), and Tony Maceli (bass). Due to illness, Tony Maceli was unable to perform on Saturday night. Gueyikian and Legere performed songs off their 1996 release Without Change and their 2000 release Hang Around, as well as covers of popular standards. The seventy-five minute set included “Not Just Yet,” “Far from Saved,” “Whole Again,” “Circle,” “Without Change” and others from their two albums. Covers included an acoustic version of the Black Crowes’ hit single “She Talks to Angels,” as well as Billy Joel’s cult hit, “Only the Good Die Young.”

The Granian performance marks the seventh event sponsored by the Concert Committee this semester. Other events sponsored by the committee so far include: the Bluestring/Jonasay concert, Dean Edwards’ comedic performance, the Counting Crows concert, the Georgia Ave./Virginia Coalition concert, the Cast Iron Filter benefit concert, the Second City Comedy performance and now the Granian concert.

Upcoming events include a Battle of the Bands cosponsored by the Publicity and Student Performers Committees on November 10th and Fighting Gravity on November 17th. Both events will be free to Davidson students. For more information about how to get involved with the Concert Committee or to give suggestions for upcoming shows, please contact Liz Smith at ezsmith@davidson.edu.

Corpus Christi retells Christ’s life

Off-Tryon Theater Company produces hit-and-miss performance

By Jordan Steele
Staff Writer

In just its second season, the burgeoning Off-Tryon Theatre Company has secured a play that has been embroiled in controversy since its inception off-Broadway in 1999: Corpus Christi. Off-Tryon director John Hartnett argues, “It is a love story,...a retelling of the most famous story in Western Civilization.” The play presents, ostensibly, an interpretation of Jesus Christ as a gay Messiah, situated in the backwaters of Corpus Christi, Texas. It’s of no surprise that the latter fact incited the national uproar. The play comes to Charlotte at an appropriate time, as National Coming Out Day is celebrated this Thursday.

The black-box theater, located in Charlotte’s trendy North Davidson Arts District, has been playfully redesigned as a sort of Roman Bathhouse, the reputed site of many a homosexual encounter. Tacky Christmas lights adorn the rafters, giving the room a trashy but celestial aura. The players are disarmingly familiar with the audience. They lounge comfortably in Oxford-style shirts and khaki pants, musing and schmoozing with the spectators. The actors are stumpy, stout, boorish, radiant, sensual, and adorable: in short, gay Everymen.

Corpus Christi immediately emphasizes the individuality of its players in its attempt to humanize each character. The play opens with a lengthy baptism ceremony, in which each of the 13 actors is christened one of the characters, then proceeds to relate to the audience the idiosyncrasies of each disciple. The play is obviously trying to destroy gay stereotypes, but the uniqueness of the individual serves to marginalize our hero, Jesus. Joshua, played by the precocious Eric Foss, is noticeably uncomfortable assuming the mantle of “Son of Man.” Foss’s Joshua is shy and raw, with a jerky posturing which suggests that the Savior of Mankind isn’t comfortable in a human body. Joshua is most at ease with his friend/lover Judas, a burly alpha-male who is a self-professed aesthete. Judas kisses Joshua not once but three times, the first of which foreshadows the boy’s later betrayal. One after-prom French kiss on the football field confirms Joshua’s homosexuality and seals his fate as a gay martyr.

Hartnett’s production is best when playfully ironic and at its most offensive when sarcastic. Especially charming is a cross-dressing Simon, played by the tender Antony Napolitano, who dons a do-rag and a dead-on Texas drawl as the Virgin Mary. But cheap shots at Roman Catholicism—apparently the only denomination of Christianity whose presence is worth mentioning in Protestant-saturated Texas—high-school bullies, and military veterans, undermine Corpus Christi’s struggle to dispel stereotypes. If McNally devotes so much script to particularizing his gay characters, why does he insist on lumping all homophobes into the category of “sexual deviants with repressed gay tendencies”? Such a pat characterization threatens to alienate further the gay community, and, more importantly, contradicts the play’s essential tenets.

When Simon declares at the end, “If we have offended, so be it,” one wonders whether his restrained indignation is merely self-righteousness. Corpus Christi struggles to love, but in the end the play seems justifiably angry.

Corpus Christi will be playing at the Off-Tryon Theatre Company.until October 20. Student tickets are $10. For more information, visit offtryon.org.

Coming Up Next From THE DAVIDSON CONCERT SERIES:
- Brazilian Guitar Quartet: Monday, January 28
- Imani Winds: Monday, March 25

Editor emeritus

The Scholars of London gave a technical tour-de-force in Hodson Hall on Sunday evening. The British quartet titled their performance, the second in this year’s Davidson College Concert Series, Five Hundred Years of Song. Bass and founding member David van Asch expressed the ensemble’s desire to bring a variety of musical styles from many periods to the stage. Instead of running through their repertoire chronologically, however, they grouped them into loosely “thematic” categories. The themes ranged from the profound, “The Power of Music,” to the poignant, “Songs of Love,” to the downright silly, “The Animal Kingdom.” Jokes abounded, both high and low, within the songs themselves and in the commentary provided by the vocalists. Noted tenor and co-founder Robin Doveton, the speaker in the Orlando Lassus madrigal “Tutto lo di” laments the fact that his beloved sings the entire day. Instead of ringing a church bell at her insistence, he tells her, he would much rather “ring your little bell.”

Indeed, such subtleties aside, what set this quartet apart was their great command over the music. What may seem like elementary considerations in vocal music, pitch and rhythm, become complicated when performing intricate, contrapuntal songs a cappella. The Clement Jannequin chanson “Le chant des oiseaux,” for instance, used a variety of melodic lines, syncopated rhythms, squeaks, squawks, and whistles to imitate birdsong. The effect was quite entertaining. The Scholars moved seamlessly from the reverent strains of a sacred motet, to the lighthearted pulse of an Italian gagliarda, to the melancholy lyricism of a traditional English ballad. Precision, restraint, and crystal-clear harmonies characterized the performance. If one could criticize the four, one would have to note the relative lack of passion in their music. Renditions of an African-American gospel tune and even of a Bach chorale lacked energy and emotion. It is, perhaps, hard to escape one’s roots. Nevertheless, their performance of Vaughan Williams’s “Silence and Music,” on an admittedly more “metaphysical” text, gave some sense of drama.

The group itself originated in 1970 from the efforts of four former choristers of the King’s College Chapel. All had received scholarships to Cambridge University for their talents, hence their name, the Scholars. The quartet started out as an all-male ensemble but added a female voice in 1972. The present group has been touring together since countertenor Angus Davidson joined in 1986. Soprano Kym Amps had joined three years prior to Davidson. After six sequences of songs, the Scholars filed off the stage to warm applause. At the insistence of the crowd, they gave an encore, fittingly, a Beatles song, “When I’m Sixty-Four.”

Quick Pics: Bread and Roses. Ken Loach’s Bread and Roses is the year’s most emotional, and perhaps relevant, film. Pilar Padilla stars as an illegal Mexican immigrant who works as a janitor in an L.A. office building. Treated poorly, the workers strike, and try to form a union, only to meet strong opposition from their employers. Aside from this main story, Loach’s script effortlessly weaves in subplots involving sexual harassment, robbery, and a romance. I was reminded of last year’s The Contender, the rare film that wasn’t afraid to take a political stance. A movie like Bread and Roses is even more rare: it takes a political stance, stands by its opinions as best it can, and then recognizes the flaws of its arguments. Here is a film so uncompromising that it’s unwilling to hide even its own shortcomings. And I doubt there will be a better performance this year than Elpidia Carrillo’s. Bread and Roses is one of the year’s best films. Grade: A. Opening at The Manor on the 12th and at Birkdale on the 19th. —Derek Loh

Go see a flick! Training Day. An inside peek at the secret life of inner-city policemen, Training Day combines Oscar-caliber acting and charged fight scenes to create an edge-of-your-seat action flick. To be honest, that’s about all I really remember about Training Day, even though I saw it only two days ago. Sure, I remember the main actors, Ethan Hawke and Denzel Washington, Snoop Dogg’s cameo; past that, what else is there to remember besides a car ride and typical male badassness? High action, high violence thrillers typically do not interest me, and I put Training Day in that category. Although this movie did not particularly win me over, I still have to give credit to Hawke and Washington and David Ayer’s screenplay. So, if your idea of a great and worthwhile movie consists of male bravado and twenty-minute fight scenes, then Training Day is perfect. Like the guys who saw the movie with me, you would probably give Training Day an A, but it only reached a B- for me. Now playing at all local theaters. —Erin Delk.