Plaques, from page I areas,” explained Registrar Hansford Epes. “One, having to do with the stipulations in donations made to the college, and at which point one might say no to a stipulation. I don’t think anyone wanted to suggest that this was one such place. The other had to do with the expressed concern that the appearance of such plaques and quotations might present an unwelcomeness to those outside the Christian tradition.”

Epes emphasized that respect for the donor was of primary importance. He encouraged others to express gratitude for the gift of a donor and respect the donor’s concern for Davidson’s historic tradition and its relationship with its Christian background, saying that background is “part of the college’s history.”

“I am not terribly comfortable in treating an unnamed donor as anything other than someone who should be thanked and respected,” Epes commented. Simultaneously, Epes expressed concern that the plaques might give a “false impression of Davidson to those who share in the Christian tradition, that impression being to put us in that stratum of schools in which the tradition is indeed narrow.” At Davidson, Epes explained, “The Christian tradition is manifest in living, not in legends.” Epes referred to Davidson’s charter itself, in which the school’s founding fathers express their specific desire to create an institution that is “not narrowly sectarian.”

Religion professor Trent Foley expressed similar concerns. Curious about the plaques’ exact wording, he researched the translations and was able to link them to the New American Standard Version of the Bible. This fact alone was enough to attract Foley’s concern. “This was a translation of scripture that was produced in the mid-70s by self-described fundamentalists whose interpretation of scripture was literal,” he explained. “Basically, their interpretation of scripture represents everything that main-line light to Presbyterianism does not. It’s a version of scripture that none of us as scholars would ever think of using in our religion classes.”

Foley’s ideal solution would be to put the plaques up in Hebrew, as “that’s the language the quotes were originally written in.” He recommended providing English translations underneath, using a “better” translation, such as the New Revised Standard Version, the choice of most professors in the religion department.

Concerns among religion professors extend beyond the intricacies of the translations themselves. Religion professor Plank warned of the overall dangers of giving scripture a “bumper sticker” quality. “I am aware of the seriousness of those texts and the necessity of approaching them with a certain kind of integrity,” Plank explained. “How can we expect students to deal with these texts seriously in class when they go out afterwards and find them trivialized on the walls?”

“It’s not so much that I’m put off by the signs themselves, as I am by the process by which they appeared,” continued Foley. “These are statements about our communal values. As a liberal arts college, it’s important for us to make statements about our communal values, but I think the community needs to have a discussion about them, not just a small group of people.”

Though mostly contained to the faculty, debate over the plaques has begun to emerge among students as well. “The quotes seem so antiquated,” said Emily Einstein ’04. “They are not in the least gender inclusive.” Others seem unconcerned. “We already have too many things to read at this college,” commented Hak Shin Park ’04. “Who the heck is going to notice some random plaques?”

Despite the concerns, the plaques are here to stay. Faculty members who had expressed concern seem more or less placated. “I wouldn’t object if the signs came down,” said Foley. “But that was never presented as an option... No one had the temerity to suggest that they be taken down.”

“Am I satisfied with the outcome?” asked McMillen. “No. But I don’t think there is much I can do to change the situation.”

Vagt, in defense of the plaques, maintains that they are in perfect keeping with Davidson’s Presbyterian heritage, and in fact celebrate it. He cites the college’s Mission Statement, which states, “Since its founding, the ties which bind the College tothe Presbyterian Church have remained close and strong.”

Vagt has communicated to the donor of the plaques that no more will be accepted for the moment. Reflecting on the situation, he commended the faculty for its willingness to engage in “healthy and wholesome discussion.” “If we all had the same opinion about everything, this would be a pretty dull school,” said Vagt.

Otts lecturer shares tales of Dead Sea Scrolls
By Linny Baldwin
News Editor

Conspiracy theorists and doomsday cult members would likely have been disappointed in this year’s Otts lecture series. Those with more scholarly inclinations, however, had good reason to attend and appreciate Dr. James VanderKam’s two-part talk on The Dead Sea Scrolls.

Dr. VanderKam is a Harvard PhD and the John A. O’Brien professor of Hebrew Scriptures at the University of Notre Dame. For the past decade, VanderKam has been intimately involved in the official effort to edit and publish the Dead Sea Scrolls; he has also written a book, The Dead Sea Scrolls Today, which has been translated into six languages.

The lecture was well-attended by religion majors and professors, people from the community, and students who’d been told that the lectures would be on their midterms. A few found the talks “boring,” but most everyone in the audience seemed engaged with the story of the Scrolls and their relevance to modern religious thought.

The Dead Sea Scrolls themselves are a collection of over 900 documents found in the 1940s in caves near Qumran — an isolated location on the Dead Sea believed to have been home to members of a Jewish sect known as the Essenes. The Essenes lived at Qumran from the second century BC up until the Romans overran Palestine in 68 AD. They are thought to have been an all-male sect whose purpose was to await the coming of God.

“Working with the scrolls has been a unique academic experience,” said VanderKam. When the first ones were found they caused a sensation because there are very few primary texts from this era. However, research tapered off in the mid-sixties, and their contents were (for the most part) never published. In the eighties, this “concealment” of the scrolls’ contents led to a rash of conspiracy theories — and renewed interest in the project of translating and publishing them.

The first of the two lectures focused mainly on the history and contents of the scrolls. VanderKam showed many slides, showing documents ranging in quality from a complete scroll of Isaiah to a scattering of fragments less than an inch long. Unfortunately, the findings tend much more towards the latter; at one point VanderKam referred to most of the pieces as the “Dead Sea itty-bitty bits.”

Among the scrolls are documents pertaining to the life of the Essenes — including extraordinarily strict codes of conduct, and rules for becoming a member of the sect. Several biblical commentaries were also found, showing the central role that Jewish scripture played in the lives of the Essenes. Finally, among the Dead Sea Scrolls are copies or pieces of all but two of the books in the Jewish Bible — our oldest copies of such texts by nearly a thousand years.

According to VanderKam, for the most part the scrolls prove that the Old Testament has changed little over the centuries — the ancient and modern texts agree to a surprising extent, given the centuries of hand-copying they underwent. A few additional paragraphs have been discovered in the Scrolls, and a scroll of the Book of Psalms gives the songs in a different order and adds eight unfamiliar ones, but by and large their text confirms the accuracy of our modern Bible.

The second lecture was more scholarly in nature. VanderKam devoted a considerable amount of time to addressing the theory that the scrolls are Christian documents, a theory to which he does not subscribe for a variety of reasons, including advanced Carbon-14 dating and the complete absence of Jesus in the scrolls’ text. At one point some thought that a papyrus fragment was a piece from the Book of Mark, but advanced photographic techniques have caused VanderKam and others to discard this theory.

VanderKam did, however, address the possibility of John the Baptist being connected somehow to this sect. He also drew parallels between the Messianic beliefs of the Essenes and the Messianic beliefs of the Christians. VanderKam concluded the lecture on a humorous note with a slide bearing David Letterman’s “Top Ten Surprises Found in the Dead Sea Scrolls.” Of particular interest to many attendees was number four: “Without getting too specific, Presbyterians are in serious trouble.”