Just doin’ it: Davidson brokers Nike deal

Eighteen months of negotiations culminate in verbal agreement between apparel supplier and Wildcats

By Brooke KITTINGER AND Liz Gross
Staff Writers

In June of this year, Davidson officials made an agreement with Nike, Inc., for a reduction in equipment purchase prices
for the athletic department. Davidson had been corresponding with Nike for about eighteen months and the two parties made the
verbal commitment after recognizing mutual benefits.

Athletic Director Jim Murphy describes the policy not as a contract, but rather as a “preferred price relationship.” According to
Murphy, only a handful of small colleges comparable to Davidson have made similar commitments with Nike, showing what he believes
is a stronger assertion of Davidson’s presence in the NCAA. He recognizes that Nike clearly does not depend upon business
from a small school such as Davidson, but the “cumulative effect” of its academic reputation as well as its growing
athletic prowess caught Nike’s eye. Also, he relayed the fact that most Davidson athletes like the Nike brand and have
chosen it repeatedly as their gear of choice.

Davidson’s agreement with Nike will yield budget relief for each team, as well as exposure for Nike. Although the amount
of funds distributed among teams will vary, all teams will benefit and can expect anywhere from hundreds to thousands of
dollars in savings. These funds will then be available to help defray, for example, special equipment purchases and travel costs.
Over the course of the semester, the athletic department will refine its ordering procedure of Nike equipment.

When questioned about other companies’ sponsorship of teams, such as the men’s soccer team’s partnership with Adidas, Murphy stated that
eventually, all teams will most likely “gravitate toward the Nike brand.” Some students oppose Davidson’s dealings with Nike, expressing concerns
about the working conditions of its foreign labor force. However, Murphy contends that Davidson has not signed any contract with
the corporation and that it has the option of disavowing the verbal agreement at any time if the College so
desires. Furthermore, he asserts that no athletic team is obligated to use Nike products, even if the company provides a
comparable one.

Murphy summed up his feelings on the verbal commitment, saying, “It’s a good situation for Davidson when we can get
a top-flight product at a deeply-discounted price.”

Field hockey shuts out St. Francis, 7-0

By SARAH NOLAN
Staff Writer

Over the weekend, the Davidson field hockey team staged its own performance of “The Comeback Kids.” Despite a heartbreaking 2-1
overtime loss to Appalachian State on Saturday, the Wildcats could not be held down. On Sunday, they took St. Francis
by storm, defeating them 7-0 and posting their third shutout of the season.

Saturday’s game, Davidson’s first loss of the season, brings the Wildcats’ overall record to 3-1 and was their first conference
game. ASU’s Nora Brooks scored with an assist from Christina Settle with 31:41 remaining in the half. The Wildcats spent
the half on the defensive end with eight corners against them and seven offensive corners. The second half was a
retaliation period for Davidson as the team posted 12 offensive corners and tried to knock in a goal. Finally, with
only 3:13 left on the clock, Amanda Strickland ’03 scored, bringing the game to a tied score of 1-1. At
the end of regulation time, the score remained 1-1 and the two teams were subjected to one of two 15-minute,
seven-against-seven, sudden death overtimes. ASU clinched the game when Settle scored only 27 seconds into the period.

Alex Rogers ‘03 leads the ball upfield. Freshman Maggie McPherson battles for control of the ball.the overtime. The Wildcats finished
with 15 shots on goal, and freshman goalkeeper Cate Schenning posted six saves. After suffering the defeat, the Wildcats turned
around on Sunday and pulled off their fourth win of the season. The first goal of the game came from
junior Jessica Barton, who scored off of a penalty stroke with 26:35 remaining in the half. Less than three minutes
later, Barton again found the back of the cage, again unassisted.

The Wildcats dominated the field but did not score again until Christina Auer '04 crossed a ball in front of
St. Francis’ freshman keeper Tiffany Homan to put in the third goal. To finish off the first half, junior Agnes
Bateman took the ball off of a corner and crossed it to Barton, waiting at the post. Barton took the
opportunity to fire in her third goal of the game. With 24:44 remaining in the second half, junior Alex Rogers
secured the Wildcats' lead with the fifth goal of the game. Strickland finished off the game with two goals, the
last goal coming off of an assist from Bateman. Davidson dominated the game with 32 shots. Freshman goalkeeper Sarah Nolan
had one save.

Head Coach Christy Morgan was happy about the victory, saying, “Our performance today against St. Francis was a result of
our disappointment yesterday and our commitment to change.” The Wildcats head up north to play Radford College next Saturday and
to Boone on Sunday for an ASU rematch.

---

Team Tees Off
By Jon Kropski
Special Contributor

The golf team kicks off its season this weekend at the Sea Trail Intercollegiate Golf Tournament, hosted by Elon College.
The squad is young, but according to team members, contains a great deal of talent. Junior Ben Friedell, an Ohio
native who is coming off a summer of strong play, leads the team. Friedell finished in the top ten in
several prominent national events this summer. An aggressive ex-hockey player, Ben’s scoring average for the season to date is under
par. He will be looked to for leadership on and off the course.

Senior Captain Dan Carlson thinks the team this year is the strongest of any during his four years at Davidson.
“I’m really excited about this season,” he explains. “Everyone on this team can really play, so we’re constantly going to
push each other to play better. This team will improve immensely during the season because everyone is willing to put
in the time and effort to practice.”

Other returning players include senior Will Smoak, junior Griffin Myers, and sophomores Erik Heidefors, P.J. Martin, and Jon Kropski. After
returning from abroad to a less than stellar start during last spring’s season, Smoak’s game came back to typical form
and continued to improve throughout the summer. Will is currently playing some of the best golf on the team. Myers
spent much of the summer traveling throughout Africa and Europe, and spent several weeks in Scotland studying the game in
its homeland.

The young squad is rounded out by five very impressive freshmen. Peyton Gallagher, Jeff Hamilton, Dan Koernke, Dan Walker, and
Joe Zimmerman all have excellent junior records and are eager to contribute to the team this year. After the tournament
at Elon, the ‘Cats play the James Madison Invitational, the River Landing Intercollegiate (hosted by UNC Wilmington), and the UTC
Intercollegiate Golf Classic at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. Fans looking to support the team closer to home will
have to wait until March, when Davidson will host the Birkdale Invitational.

---

Buy me some peanuts and Cracker Jacks...and write an article while you’re at it.
EMAIL YOUR SPORTS EDITORS
cahauser@davidson.edu
jiswansbrough@davidson.edu
