ing streak against Catawba

By Liz Gross
Staff Writer

Regular season play came to an end for women’s field hockey last week with back-to-back games on Thursday and Friday.
The Davidson Wildcats faced nationally ranked No. 3 Wake Forest University last Thursday, October 25, in Winston-Salem, NC. The Deacons
opened the match with an early goal from Lucy Shaw with 23:05 left in the first half. Davidson then held
the Deacon offense until the final minutes of the first half, when Wake Forest notched two more goals in the
last three minutes. The Wildcats ended the half trailing 3-0.

The Deacons totaled four more goals in the second half, handing Davidson the 7-0 loss, and marking both Wake Forest’s
ninth consecutive win of the season and Davidson’s eleventh straight loss. Hungry for a win to end the season, the
'Cats headed back to Winston-Salem to face Catawba College. Davidson dominated the game from the beginning as sophomore Kathleen Fenn
scored less than three minutes into the game. Seven minutes later, Davidson struck again as junior Amanda Strickland found the
back of the net with an assist from junior Agnes Bateman. Jessica Barton ended the first half with a goal
from a penalty stroke, putting the Wildcats up 3-0 at the break.

Davidson extended their lead with two more goals in the second half. Bateman scored on an assist from freshman Maggie
McPherson, followed by an unassisted goal from junior Alex Rogers in the decisive 5-0 win over the Indians. The Wildcats
controlled the game with 25 shots on goal during the match, while goalies Cate Schenning and Amanda Mordavsky split the
time in the net for Davidson’s fourth shutout of the season. This fall has been a constant battle for the
Wildcats, who are ending the season with a 5-12 overall record. Post-season competition begins next Thursday, November 1, as the
women look to avenge their 0-6 conference record as the NorPac tournament begins in Boone, NC. The Wildcats are seeded
fourth in the eastern division.

Game Face Captains Around Campus

This week: Men’s Golf... Matt Whited Dan Carlson Syracuse, NY History Major Years Experience in Sport: “I’ve been playing competitively
since I was about 11 years old.” In your opinion, who is the best role model for youth today? New
York City firefighters

Carlson captains a young 2001-2002 team that ended its fall season with an eighth-place finish in the UTC Intercollegiate Golf
Classic in Chattanooga, Tennessee on Oct. 15-16.

Volleyball ends regular season, splits matches in Charleston

By Drew Prickett
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s volleyball team split a pair of matches against the Citadel and the College of Charleston, leaving the
Wildcats (11-13, 8-7) in their now-familiar .500 position. The team has already qualified for the post-season tournament. Nevertheless, the 'Cats
hope to finish the season on a high note in the next two weeks. Junior Roberta Quis summed up the
weekend competition, “We played well against the Citadel, but just came up short against Charleston.”

Before traveling to Charleston to face the Citadel and Charleston on Friday and Saturday, Davidson hosted Western Carolina University at
Belk Arena on Wednesday. The 'Cats sought to avenge a three-game loss to the Catamounts only three days prior to
the rematch. Despite a double-double of 10 kills and 12 digs by Quis and 11 kills by Jacqueline Ortega, Davidson
fell again, 30-16, 30-25, and 30-21.

Against the Citadel, the Wildcats fiercely responded with a 30-19, 30-20, 30-21 triumph. Once again, Jacqueline Ortega and Quis led
the way. Each recorded 10 kills and Quis topped all competitors with 6 blocks. Freshman setter Kristen Higbee dished out
24 assists in the win. After the win, Quis said, “We played well and the pieces were coming together.”

The Wildcats tried to sustain their momentum the following day, against the College of Charleston, but fell 30-23, 30-28, 30-21.
The three-game loss, however, is not indicative of the Wildcats’ play. Each team hit over .400 in the match and
in each game the 'Cats had a reasonable chance of winning. In the second game, the teams were tied 28-28.
Charleston, however, was able to wrestle momentum from the 'Cats, and won on serve to go up 2-0. In the
match, Ortega once again paced the team with 13 kills and 10 digs while Kristen Higbee provided 36 assists. Freshmen
Julia Hueckel and Meredith Lorenz were also significant contributors in the match. Hueckel totaled 10 kills, and Lorenz, a defensive
specialist, impressed with an .800 hitting percentage (8 kills in 10 attempts) as well as 8 digs.

Despite the three-game setback against Charleston, the Wildcats still maintain a winning margin in league play and will play in
the Southern Conference tournament. According to Hueckel, the team still has a legitimate shot at the crown, “We’re a vocal,
aggressive team, despite a lot of setbacks... we’ve improved every game, and it’s possible to win a [third-straight] championship.”

By Richard Connolly
Staff Writer

In the fall of 1998, six young men arrived on the Davidson campus knowing that they would be playing soccer
for the Wildcats, but unaware of what the next four years would hold. Another member was added to the group
for each of the next two seasons, and by the time they were juniors, eight members would represent the class
of 2002. This core of players has essentially transformed the soccer program, turning a 5-16 team as freshmen into an
NCAA Tournament contender this year. Collectively, the group has compiled a 34-41-1 record with several games remaining, made it to
the Southern Conference semifinals twice, and flirted with national prominence, earning a ranking as high as 16th in the country.
These eight talented individuals have always represented Davidson both on and off the field, and as a tribute to these
men, this article is dedicated to them. The following profiles were created, in part, by Coach Spear with additional quotations
from other members of the squad:

Chris Norbet - Belleville, IL
A biology major and Baker Scholar with a 3.8 GPA, Chris epitomizes the stellar Davidson student-athlete. He has made tremendous
strides each year due to hard work and a pursuit of getting the absolute most out of himself. ChrisDeserves all
the success he has achieved, including 1st Team All-Southern Conference as a sophomore when he broke through with 13 goals.
He proved his skill with ten assists as a junior. He was a unanimous pick by the players as a
senior tri-captain. To date, Chris has 14 goals—half the team’s total. “I admire Chris for how hard he works and
for how much he gets out of himself,” Spear said. “He’s a guy that plays at or even beyond his
potential, which is nice, because not many guys can get that far. He’s very effective because, as a goal-scorer, he
wants the ball and he looks to win the game for you. That’s a very special trait that few college
players have.”

Derek Kilburn - Huntersville, NC
A French major, Derek spent the spring semester of his junior year in France. Derek converted from the midfield to
marking back this year, a move he has relished—especially since twin brother Jeremy is there with him. Derek has really
stepped it up this year on the field. Usually known for his tenacity, Derek has added more composure and skill
on the ball this year. Captain Erik Ozimek noted Derek’s improvement from last year, saying, “Derek has more than impressed
me thus far in the 2001 campaign. His attitude and tenacity set him apart from the typical defender. Aside from
his raw athleticism, his awareness and tackling ability have allowed him to out-mark some of the country’s big guns.”

David Ramich - Kiawah Island, SC
After playing his freshman year at Middlebury, David transferred to Davidson and Division I. “David is an economics major who
has become a friend away from the field as he interned at the place of my former business (internetsoccer.com Inc/TEAMtalk)
for the past two summers,” noted Spear. As a converted center midfielder, David has become a smart and steady defender,
providing important depth and the experience to step in ready to go.

Paul Watson - Mandeville, LA
A Spanish major, Paul spent his junior spring semester in Spain, and played for a team in Colorado this summer.
Watson has contributed both as a forward and midfielder, known for his powerful left-footed shot and good, elusive confidence to
take on defenders. Notes freshman midfielder Cory Lester, “Paul is a great example of tenacity.”

Jeremy Kilburn - Huntersville, NC
A French major who also spent the spring semester in France like twin brother Derek, Jeremy has also moved from
midfield to defense. Jeremy has contributed mightily all four years with an aggressive, win-at-all-costs mentality that lifts his teammates by
example. He is a tough tackler and has marked many great players out of the game. Says Jeremy of the
class of 2002: “I couldn’t imagine a closer group of guys that were more willing to fight and win for
each other.”

Erik Ozimek - Columbia, SC
A transfer from Maryland after his sophomore season, Erik became an instant leader in the program with great experience (regional
and national team experience in high school), skill on the ball, supreme athleticism, and, most importantly, his year-round dedication. Erik
has played center mid since his first game as a Wildcat, was All-Southern Conference and, impressively, All-South Region as a
junior. A psychology major and tri-captain, Erik plans to play professionally after graduation. “I transferred to Davidson because I knew
there is something special about the program that I wanted to be a part of,” says Ozimek. “As a leader
on the team, I hope to both take my team into the post-season and help Davidson soccer become a team
that gets nation-wide recognition. In addition to making the NCAA Tourney, I felt the program would enable me to reach
my goals of playing at the next level professionally and perhaps to one day play with the national team.”

Jon Tetirick - Cincinnati, OH
A pre-med psychology major boasting a 3.8 GPA, Jon is a tri-captain who has sparkled at Davidson both in the
midfield and forward line. He stepped up in confidence and performance in his sophomore season, while playing in all 21
games. As a junior, Jon led the team in scoring with 11 goals, earning him All-Southern Conference honors. As a
senior, Jon has been slowed by injuries, but his leadership continues and his return to play late in the season
will be a shot in the arm for the Wildcat offense. Lester comments, “Watching Jon recover from his injury, he
has shown us all that even though every season has its obstacles, they can be overcome.”

Justin Saunders - Lexington, KY
As a pre-med psychology major, Justin has made major strides at Davidson from junior varsity as a freshman to one
of the team’s most dangerous players as a senior. Justin possesses tremendous speed and that, combined with exquisite touch and
an array of dribbling moves, makes the wing midfielder fun to watch and even harder to stop. He has committed
himself to get better every year, is a great example for younger players, and came into the 2001 pre-season as
one of the most conditioned players on the team. Ozimek praised Saunders’ foot skill, work rate, and explosive speed, saying,
“He will, without question, be a main link to the team’s success. When he’s playing with confidence, I dare any
outside flank player to run with him for 90 minutes.”

Football, continued from page 12
Delivered a three-yard touchdown pass to freshman tight end Chris Caison for the only score of the period, Caison’s first
career touchdown. On the extra-point attempt, the snap was bad, but senior holder Mike Tarver ran to the left and
stretched the ball over the goal line for a two-point conversion and a 29-7 lead. The final score of the
day came on a seven-yard H-S pass with 6:55 to play in the game. The game was riddled with penalties
as both teams were charged with at least 11. For the Wildcats, they had a season-high 13 flags against them
for a whopping 105 yards. Nichols finished the game with 173 passing yards for two touchdowns, connecting on 10 of
24 attempts. His first TD pass was his first in 11 quarters. Davidson will play its final road game of
the season next Saturday at Centre College at 1:30 p.m.
