DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2001 VOLUME 93, NUMBER 5

Red Bike program struggles to survive
By RICHARD VINSON
Editor Emeritus

After numerous acts of malicious vandalism effectively rode the Community Bike Program into the ground, the SGA and Davidson Outdoors
are struggling to keep Davidson’s red bikes rolling. DO President Julie Hwang ’02 and Vice-president Wendy Legerton ’02 reported the
losses to the SGA at its meeting on Sept. 27. Of the original 20 bikes purchased, three are in working
condition. One is currently missing. None have been released for student use this year.

Noting that the purchase of 20 new bikes was a “very expensive endeavor” for those involved, SGA President Joey Harris
’02 enjoined senators to “fix the situation.” Among those who contributed to the purchase were the SGA, the President’s Office,
the office of the Dean of Students, The Class of 2001 Senior Class Gift, and the Director of the Union.

Hwang and Legerton presented the assembled students with a few options. First, once DO employees have repaired the red bikes,
they could continue the program with no significant changes. “Ideally, we’d keep [the red bike program] the way it is,”
said Hwang.

Under the old system, bikes could be picked up and deposited virtually anywhere on campus, each equipped with a chain
lock, in theory, to prevent theft and wanton destruction of communal property. The Dean of Students office then circulated the
combination to the campus community via email. The program allowed students the most freedom, as it did not attach any
special requirements to access to the bikes.

Unfortunately, these precautions failed to protect the bikes. Students proved unwilling to lock up the bikes, and a few felt
compelled

Weekend benefit raises $5,000 for NY firefighters
PCC organizations and others spearhead effort to raise money for disaster relief fund
By RONALD F. FOSS
Staff Writer

Sigma Phi Epsilon, with the help of Cast Iron Filter, Turner and Rusk Eating houses, Papa D and WALT, will
donate close to $5,000 to the New York Firefighters 9-11 Disaster Relief Fund. These proceeds were netted last Friday.

Davidson’s favorite local band, Cast Iron Filter, played to a packed house at SigEp on Friday night. At the same
time, the brothers of SigEp were busily selling quesadillas in the former Outpost building. According to David Moskowitz ’03, President
of SigEp, approximately 900 quesadillas were sold. In addition to quesadillas, the fraternity also sold 125 Cast Iron Filter T-shirts
bearing sponsor’s logos. All proceeds were contributed to the fund. This was made possible by the generosity of local sponsors,
who subsidized the cost of the T-shirts. The fraternity also sponsored a “quesadillathon,” through which 300 students pledged a certain
amount of money for each quesadilla sold.

“We estimate close to 500 Davidson students attended the Outpost that night and many more were able to see Cast
Iron Filter,” related Moskowitz. The concert was put on with the cooperation of Turner and Rusk eating houses. Much of
the praise, he said, should go to Dennis Rice, affectionately known as “Papa D” by just about everyone who knows
him. He almost singlehandedly made all of the quesadillas, thus drawing people down to the Court in the first place,
and providing the fuel to keep them there much of the night.

Peter Campbell ’03 thought credit should also go to Moskowitz, whose “incredible energy and ability” was crucial to pulling the
night together. Campbell added that WALT radio should be thanked for providing the music in the Outpost. Boyd Stephenson ’03,
Social Chair of SigEp, summed up the evening: “We really enjoyed a chance to help DavidsonStudents have a good time
and help out an excellent charity at the same time.”

AAA News
Arts & Living
Perspectives
Sports

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Dr. Arlene Saxonhouse delivered the Phi Beta Kappa lecture last week.
You’ve spoken and now the interview returns. Meet Kells Hetherington.
Student responds to faculty debate over plaques containing Scripture.
Women’s soccer recovers after rough start with victory over Appalachian St.

1-5
6-7
8-9
10-12

to launch them off balconies or into lamp-posts. Remarked DO Assistant Director Mike Goode, “It’s clear to me that some
people treat community property pretty callously.” Senior Class President Bobby Pittenger

By PK Parte
Staff Writer

Take a walk to or from just about anywhere on campus, and one thing will undoubtedly not go unnoticed —
construction. From the brick pathways being laid all around campus, to the renovation of the Grey Building, to the completion
of the Performing Arts Center, plans to give this campus a face-lift are in full gear.

On Sept. 27, David Holthouser, Director of the Physical Plant, gave a presentation to the SGA summarizing projects designed to
prepare this campus for the future. Workers are finishing up the Duke Family Performance Hall, scheduled to open in winter
of 2002. The Duke Family Performance Hall and the Alvarez College Union make up the Knobloch Campus Center.

The huge black walls built around the Grey Building hide the old college union that was bustling with activity just
a few months ago. It opened in 1941 as the college library and was remodeled in 1975 to serve as
the college union. It is, yet again, being renovated; this time, for the music department. The basement of the building
contained the bookstore. It will now be excavated four feet and will feature faculty teaching studios and student practice rooms.
The music library will be located on the first floor of the building, along with faculty offices and a room
that will not only serve as a music classroom, but also as a chemistry classroom. The top floor will feature
a performance hall with a capacity to seat 75-100, a tier classroom, and a recital hall. The building is set
to open in August 2002.

Unknown to many are the plans to renovate the Chambers Building. As the student population at Davidson grows, so does
the number of faculty members. As a result, many are crammed in the building with small and crowded office space.
The number of classrooms in Chambers is low and the overall organization of the building is poor. The general plan
is to move the faculty offices out to the wings of the building to make more room for new classrooms
in the middle. The building will be more accessible as it will have four elevators instead of one. Changes will
be minimal on the first floor. The biggest change will be the removal of Love Auditorium. It will be transformed
into an area featuring three high-tech classes in the middle and faculty offices on the sides. The back of Love
Auditorium will be changed to look like the sides of the building.

See Construction, page 5
