Warner women team up with Dress for Success

By Jan Scott Swetenburg
Special Contributor

The women of Warner Hall Eating House have decided to focus their community service efforts for next semester on a
non-profit organization called Dress For Success.

“We are all really looking forward to working with Dress For Success, and we hope to make it an annual
event,” said house president Laura Booher ‘02. Founded in 1996, this nationwide program helps low-income women make the transition into
the working world by providing interview suits, career development, and most importantly confidence.

According to the Dress for Success website, women are referred to the organization by homeless shelters, domestic violence shelters, immigration
services, and job training programs.

All next semester, Warner Hall will be collecting suits, blouses, dress pants, and other items for the chapter in Charlotte,
one of over 70 across the United States, England, Canada, and New Zealand. To kick off this project, women from
Warner Hall sponsored the Job Training for Immigrant Women in America table at the Alternative Gifts Fair last Sunday.

There are also plans for a dinner to honor local clients, as well as raise funds and formally present the
collected items.

The house hopes to make this a yearly project, and sophomore member Kate Morris ‘04 is especially excited about continuing
the relationship with Dress for Success.

“We want to make this more than a one-time thing,” said Kate. “It is so important to establish a connection
with the organization.”

Please remember to bring back any clothes that would be appropriate for job interviews, etc. when you are cleaning out
your closet over Christmas break.

For more information or any questions, contact Warner Hall service chairs Kristin Lothman ‘04 and Jan Scott Swetenburg ‘04.

Happy Holidays from the Davidsonian!

THE NEWS EDITORS WOULD LIKE TO THANK:

* Nick Asma
* Tracy Banghart
* Emily Drew
* Roland F. Foss
* Amanda Pennock
* PK Patel
* Nidhi Paul
* Richard Vinson

... and everyone else who’s contributed to the News Section this semester. Great job everyone!

NOW OPEN!

Giant Stuffed Potatoes * Big Deli Style Sandwiches
New Orleans Style Muffalettas * Huge Fresh Salad Bar
Box Lunches * 99¢ Kids Menu
Free Ice Cream * And Much More
Catering For Any Occasion

Jason's Deli

THE DELI RESTAURANT SINCE 1976
16639 Birkdale Commons
Huntersville
704-895-2505 * 704-895-2504 FAX
www.jasonsdeli.com

SGA will not meet this week.
They will reconvene early next semester.
Happy Holidays from all the SGA senators!

SGA Agenda
General Meeting

Davidsonians join the ranks of Who’s Who

The Dean of Student Office would like to congratulate the following students for being selected as members of Who’s Who
Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. These students were selected by faculty, staff, and fellow students because of their
outstanding record of service, leadership, and scholarship.

Evan Andrew Andersen
Michael Frank Anderson
Carey Beth Arvin
Wesley Barnard Barry
Grant Richard Bleecher
Jessica Robyn Bogo
Laura Elizabeth Booher
Adam Blackstock Brown
Derek Kristopher Brown
Carla Antionette Bullock
Jeremy Michael Campbell
Michael Scott Clifton
Caroline Perrin Cunningham
Tara Beth Davidson
Richard Seth Davis
Lindsay Flora
Nicole Lynn Foreman
Carrie Virginia Frazier
Terra Dyer Gill
Joel Feurt Hanisek
Joseph Crusau Harris, Jr.
Jonathan Mikael Hill-Alto
Aaron Mitchell Houck
Edward Cader Howard, Jr.
Julie Hwang
Sanjana Tasneem Karim
Carlos Andres Lacayo
Elizabeth Marie Melchionna
Amanda Lynn Mordavsky
Christopher John Norbet
William Glenn Parker, Jr.
Ramya Parthasarathy
Julia McFadden Philpott
Robert Miller Pittenger, Jr.
Cody Wynne Ruxton
Sarah Elizabeth Schmidt
Aditi Sethi
Rachel Elizabeth Smith
Adam Tozier Soto
David Armour Stroupe
Karen Leigh Sweeney
Jonathan Lee Tolentino
Grant Townes West
Mary Kathryn White
Bjorn Douglas Wickstrom
Matthew Thomas Zogby
