By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

On October 24, famed novelist Richard Powers arrived at Davidson to deliver two public lectures. At 4:30 pm, Powers spoke
on “The Intersections of Science with Other Disciplines” along with a panel of Davidson professors consisting of Karen Hales, Mauro
Botelho, and Gregory Snyder. At 8 pm, Powers will deliver the Reynolds Lecture and address the topic of “The Gauges
of Knowledge” in Love Auditorium. Dr. Elizabeth Mills of the English department was largely responsible for coordinating Powers’ visit.

“The Reynolds Lecture Fund, which was established at Davidson in 1959, is designed to provide an annual series of distinguished
guest authorities in humanities, sciences, arts, and philosophy who will be invited to serve as ‘professors in residence’ at Davidson
College for periods of two to three days. The visit by Richard Powers will certainly fulfill that goal,” Mills stated.

Powers has gained prominence as a writer by combining his knowledge of several different disciplines to create several stylistically unique
novels. Powers was born in Evanston, Illinois, but lived in Bangkok, Thailand between the ages of 11 and 16.

---

Organization brings AIDS Quilt to campus
By LINNY BALDWIN
News Editor

On a list of the most dangerous diseases the world faces today, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) would surely place
at the top. The devastation caused by AIDS has inspired many touching memorials, but few are as powerful as the
AIDS quilt — part of which will be on display in the Davidson College Union starting October 26.

The AIDS Memorial Quilt is the brainchild of San Francisco gay rights activist Cleve Jones, who first came up with
the idea in 1985. Jones teamed up with others in the San Francisco area to form the NAMES Project Foundation;
by 1987, donations of money, sewing machines, and materials were pouring into the foundation. The quilt itself consists of panels
made by people all over the world in honor of specific victims. Most panels bear the name of an AIDS
victim. When the quilt was first displayed in 1987, it was the size of a football field. Today, the entire
quilt would cover 16 football fields. Naturally, few places are equipped to display the quilt in its entirety; instead, the
quilt is shipped around the country in 3’x 6’ panels.

According to Adopt-A-Country AIDS Campaign co-president Judie Kaplan ’04, the quilt has been on display at Davidson before. By bringing
it back, ACAC hopes to increase HIV and AIDS awareness on campus. “I hope it reflects who we are and
our compassion and concern for a national tragedy,” said Davidson president Bobby Vagt. “There are a huge number of people
very far away whose conditions are much worse than ours, for whom this is a fact of their lives and
of their deaths. This quilt both reminds us of that and encourages us to help and find a solution.”

The spotlight on AIDS was brightest in the early 1990s, but in recent years it has dimmed somewhat — in
part due to the fact that sophisticated cocktails enable patients in Western countries to avoid the death sentence that used
to be synonymous with the HIV virus, and educational efforts about condom use have helped check the spread of this
plague. For men and women in Africa, Asia, and other non-industrialized parts of the world, however, this is still not
the case. Education, access to STD-preventing birth control, and drugs for those already infected fall far behind the astronomical rate
of AIDS infections. In some areas of Africa, 1/3 of the population is infected.

“I want people to get angry,” said Kaplan of the display. “I want people to say, ‘how could this happen?’
We want people to consider not just the numbers but the stories.”

Adopt-A-Country AIDS Campaign was brought to Davidson one year ago by Muna Musiitwa ’02, who is now the regional coordinator
of ACAC.There are chapters at other North Carolina schools, and the organization in general is spreading rapidly. “We hope that
by bringing the quilt to Davidson, it will help people be closer to the reality of HIV/AIDS. We want everyone
to realize that this is a problem that will take all of our efforts, therefore, we look forward to everyone's
support,” said Musiitwa. ACAC has other plans for raising AIDS awareness on campus, including a fundraiser that will involve people
buying and then decorating luminaries for World AIDS Day. The proceeds will go to a women’s clinic in Zambia. The
display of the AIDS quilt will coincide with other AIDS awareness activities on campus, including free HIV testing on October
25 and a public lecture entitled “A Boy, A Girl, and a Virus” on October 29.

Famed novelist speaks at Davidson

Novelist Richard Powers moved frequently because of his father’s job. He then returned to the states to graduate from high
school and attended the University of Illinois, where he received an undergraduate degree in rhetoric with concentrations in math and
physics. He then went on to obtain a master’s degree in English. According to a 1998 interview with Jeffrey Williams,
Powers had difficulties in deciding what exactly he wanted to do with his life. He had “a real bias toward
the ‘non-subjective’ disciplines... the difficulty... was this constant sensation that every decision to commit myself more deeply to any of
these fields meant closing several doors.” After completing graduate school, Powers moved to Boston and found a job working with
computers. One day while visiting the Museum of Fine Arts, he was inspired by a work of art there to
write his first novel. "Three Farmers on Their Way to a Dance" was published in 1985, and was highly successful.
It eventually won the Richard and Helga Rosenthal Foundation Award for best American fiction, as well as a citation from
the PEN/Hemingway Foundation.

He has since gone on to create six more novels, including "Gain," which won the James Fenimore Cooper Prize from
the American Society for Historians, and "Plowing the Dark," which received the Vursell Prize from the American Academy and Institute
of Arts and Letters. Besides his success as a novelist, Powers has also published articles in such renowned literary publications
as Harper's, The Yale Review, The New Yorker, and The New York Times. He has been recognized as a Lannan
Literary Fellow, and received a “genius grant” from the MacArthur Foundation. With regards to his career as a writer, Powers
said he felt he had “somehow lucked into the greatest job imaginable.” Because Powers’ interests cover such a spectrum of
subjects, his novels also integrate a wide gamut of themes. From artificial intelligence to neglected children, and from business corporations
to virtual reality, Powers’ novels convey the vast amount of knowledge that Powers has acquired throughout his life. Amazon.com recommends
that “if you’re interested in ideas, in novels with intellectual density, in narratives that force you to think deeply and
reflectively about the world... [you should read] Richard Powers’ remarkable list of fictions.”

“We're fortunate that Powers, a polymath whose interests cross boundaries between disciplines, will be on campus to converse with students
and faculty in classes, during the interdisciplinary symposium, and through his formal lecture on Wednesday evening,” Mills concluded. “Powers shares
our love of the liberal arts; he has a capacious intellect and imagination; he’s thoughtful and compassionate and very generous
to share his time with Davidson. It will energize the college community to have such a smart, creative person at
Davidson for three days.”

What are you doing next semester?

STUDY ABROAD with SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
Italy
London
Spain
Hong Kong
France
Africa

1-800-235-DIPA (3472)
http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa

MONDAY - FRIDAY
8:15 a.m. - 5 p.m.

SATURDAY
10 a.m. - 1 p.m.

Halloween Sale at The Bookstore
October 31
Clothing 25% off
General Books 25% off
