LORIE ATS. Erin Berry Junior David Webb defeated College of Charleston’s Bill Brehmer in three sets last Sunday, helping the
Wildcats defeat the Cougars.

Kenchington blossoms into star at unlikeliest of places
By ZEB KELLEY
Staff Writer

At 10 a.m., sounds of ESPN Sports Center echo through the senior apartment of Lauren Kenchington. The senior lacrosse player
is, in many ways, the true athlete. It’s a wonder, though, that Kenchington came to Davidson at all. A varsity
athlete in both lacrosse and field hockey, the Annapolis, Md., native had not even heard of the school until November
of her senior year and didn’t completely decide until the day before the acceptance letter was due. Her final two
choices came down to Maryland and Davidson, but a visit to Davidson’s Lake Campus on a 70-degree day in early
spring sealed her decision. “The school sold me,” she said.

To top it off, lacrosse coach Mary Schwartz had not even seen Kenchington play until pre-season workouts in January of
her freshman year. But for both, the past four years could not have worked out any better. Now in her
final season, Kenchington is captain of the lacrosse team and has established herself as one of the greatest lacrosse players
in the school’s history. Kenchington entered the season in third place on the school’s all-time scoring list, and after racking
up six goals against Towson on March 21, she is quickly moving up the list.

After losing its fourth straight game to Brown on Sunday in Jacksonville, Fla., however, the lacrosse team seems to be
staggering. The team began the year with its best start in school history at 3-4, including a 10-8 win over
California on March 5. But since then, the team has dropped six of its last seven games. “We are not
capitalizing on the other team’s mistakes, while they are capitalizing on ours,” says Kenchington. The road won’t get any easier.
The team faces lacrosse powers such as No. 5 Duke and No. 11 William & Mary in the next month.
Kenchington remains confident, however, saying, “After Duke, we should have a 50/50 chance of winning in every game.” She says
that recently the team has been “playing hard for the entire 60 minutes. We just can’t afford to keep making
these mistakes.”

Although she enjoyed great success on the lacrosse field, Kenchington says she still feels awkward playing at what Schwartz describes
as the “southernmost point for lacrosse in the country.” “I came from an area where the people who didn’t make
the lacrosse team played baseball,” she said. Even though Davidson lacrosse has steadily improved in recent years, it is nowhere
close to being as popular in this region as it is in Maryland. “I miss watching guys (play) lacrosse,” she
says. “Home games cost more for us than away games since we have to fly in refs from the north.”
She credits her parents for much of her success on the field. Kenchington’s mother, who works in the airline industry,
flies to many of her lacrosse games. “They are responsible for instilling confidence in me,” she said of her parents.

Kenchington, a psychology major, even has plans to stay in Davidson after graduation. She hopes to serve as assistant director
to the Davidson Athletic Foundation, which raises money to support the school’s athletics program.

By Whitney Boykin
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team earned its best victory of the season on Sunday in a 4-3 victory over the College
of Charleston. The tension was high as the Wildcats battled against the Cougars in what most agree was their closest
match of the year. Davidson (5-6, 1-2) opened the match with strong play from all three doubles teams and won
the top two matches for the doubles point. Freshman Rob Gould and junior Chad Winebarger improved to 8-2 for the
year at number two doubles with an 8-6 triumph over Eyal Omid and Sandon Barth. Seniors Billy Boykin and Whit
Hansen earned their first conference victory at No. 1 doubles, as they downed Henrico du Plessis and Sagi Zakin, 8-4.
In singles, the Wildcats won three three-set contests to seal the upset. Hansen (No. 1) defeated du Plessis while junior
David Webb (No. 5) pulled away from Bill Brehmer in the third, 6-1. However, the overall match came down to
a third-set tie-breaker between freshman Bryan Stonestreet and Milos Lazic at No. 6 singles. Stonestreet, a Bluefield, W.Va. native, won
the tie-break 7-4 to finish the upset over the Cougars (11-5, 3-3). “Quite frankly, I didn’t expect us to win
this, but it puts us in much better position in the conference,” said head coach Jeff Frank. Added Boykin: “We
probably weren’t favored to win this match, but tough mental play and physical fitness enabled us to pull through.” Davidson
travels to Elon on Thursday and VMI on Saturday. The next home match is April 7 at 1 p.m., against
The Citadel.

Crew earns hardware in Georgia
AARON J. PATTON

Williams College crew. land, could not tell the order of the finish. Aaron Patton and senior Jason Todd. crew by
less than two seconds race. altogether to avoid a crash.” of medal contention. can they be lightweight?’” qualify for the
finals.Writer

The men’s crew varsity four qualified for finals competition with a resounding win last Saturday at the Southeast Regional Collegiate
Sprints in Elberton, Ga. The victory in the heats put them well ahead of a fast crew from Auburn, as
well as the highly competitive Georgia Tech. However, in the finals, it looked like the Davidson men were slowly running
out of gas as Georgia Tech and the first Williams boat pulled away, and then a second Williams boat slowly
crept up on Davidson as they neared the last twenty strokes of the 2,000-meter race. The finish of the race
was so close that the members of the boat, as well as the team onshore, were unsure of their placing.

“It is often difficult to tell placing [in a rowing race] since the line of sight may be off,” said
coxswain Jason Todd. “I was quite sure we had finished fourth.” But surprisingly, the men had triumphed in their final
sprint. They held on in the end to secure a third-place finish and their first medal of the season, a
bronze. The boat consisted of sophomore Charles Babcock, sophomore Ryan Auster, sophomore Luke O’Hara, and senior John Doe.

“I was shocked,” said Auster. “The only reason I checked the official results was to see how small of a
margin we missed a medal by. But to my surprise, we edged out the Williams boat.”

The medal was bittersweet for the men, who had managed through their second race that day in a performance that
O’Hara described as “both mentally and physically excruciating.”

“This race just goes to show how much our program has grown in the four years since my arrival,” said
O’Hara. “We’ve gone from simply wanting to make finals, to conceivably challenging for and winning the entire event.”

In other races, the men’s freshman/novice four placed fifth in the finals in a controversial finish.

“We were cut off by a Georgia State boat that swerved into our lane,” said an upset Matt Whited. “We
were approximately even with the second-place boat at the time, but had to stop.”

Despite coming to a complete stop, the Davidson men were only three seconds out of fourth place.

“It felt awesome to leave Alabama trailing behind us. Everyone is very optimistic about the rest of the season. This
past weekend helped us gain invaluable experience and confidence going into the next race,” said freshman Dan O’Neill.

The varsity women raced in the lightweight women’s four event. Despite a disappointing finish, the women look forward to making
improvements.

“I’m happy with the way we’ve been getting our swing and slide together,” said junior Ellen Freeman. “The event was
nerve-racking because even though it was a lightweight event, the girls in the other boats seemed bigger and stronger, and
we were wondering how we would compete.”

The freshman/novice women also competed in their event but were unable to place.

Youthful golf team struggles against tough competition

By Tyler Reed
Staff Writer

The first three tournaments of the spring season are in the books for the Davidson golf team, and the results
aren’t what the squad was hoping for. With 14th, 17th, and 18th place finishes, the squad is searching for answers
behind its mediocre play. Competing against traditional golf powers such as East Tennessee State and Virginia Tech week after week
may be difficult for a small program such as Davidson’s, but the players have come to expect higher finishes and
lower scores.

Head Coach Tim Straub explained that it’s easy to become satisfied with a 77 or 78 for 18 holes. To
shoot competitive scores closer to 68 or 70, however, the golfers must have a more confident mindset. Team members, says
Straub, work hard on the course and in the gym to improve the physical side of their games. But to
consistently shoot low scores, they need more confidence. They also need experience. While frustrated with the spring performances, Straub remains
optimistic. “We will get there,” he said.

The Birkdale Collegiate Golf Classic was held March 5-6 at Birkdale Golf Club in Huntersville. The 54-hole event was shortened
to 36 holes due to inclement weather during the final round. The Wildcats finished in a tie for 14th place
out of 15 teams with a final score of 618. East Tennessee State, a perennial Southern Conference power, captured the
team title with a total of 573 (-5). Leading the Wildcats was senior Scott Shupe, who finished in a tie
for 25th place with a score of 150.

At the Ironwood Intercollegiate, held March 11-13 at Ironwood Golf Course in Greenville, N.C., the golfers struggled again, finishing in
17th place out of 18 teams with a total of 953 for 54 holes. Georgia Southern captured the title with
a total of 897. Shupe shot 236 to lead the team.

Last weekend, the Wildcats competed in the Furman Invitational in Greenville, S.C. With a total score of 926, Davidson finished
in 18th place out of 21 teams in the strong field. Senior captain Sean Davidson led the team with a
total of 228 for 54 holes, including a final round 72. Virginia Tech, ranked No. 12 in the nation, captured
the team title with a score of 864.

Two meets remain this season: The Wofford Invitational on April 13-14 in Spartanburg, and the Southern Conference Tournament April 20-22
in Chattanooga.
