Honor Council works to expand role

For many at Davidson, the Honor Code proves contradictory in nature; both subtle and obvious, the Code serves as an
underlying agreement in our daily lives, one that is continuously present and yet seldom discussed. Members of this year’s Honor
Council seek to rewrite this definition. A comprehensive promotional initiative has been launched to increase cognizance of our honor system,
bringing it to the forefront of events and discussions on campus in a more interactive context.

“The Davidson College Honor Council seeks to position itself as an aggressive promoter of Davidson’s Honor Code,” reads the introductory
statement of the Honor Council’s Plan for the Year 2001, released Wednesday, March 28. “While continuing to uphold its tradition
of thoroughly and thoughtfully disposing cases, Council members will dramatically increase their commitment to fulfilling the Council’s additional role as
community ambassador of the Code.”

The achievement of this vision has been manifested in several goals. The Council hopes to enhance existing programs concerning the
honor code on campus, aimed at prospective, incoming, and current students. The Council will “foster better, more deliberate relations with
faculty and staff, recognizing the distinct need of each group.” Such increased communication will require a reworking of the Council’s
internal organization in the effort to “provide better training, recognition, and support for its members as they face increased commitment.”

“The honor council at Davidson desires to reposition itself to more actively promote the discussion of the honor code on
campus,” stated Honor Council Chairman Will Parker ’02. To achieve its goals, the Honor Council has prepared an extensive and
multifaceted strategy. To help orient incoming and prospective students to the Code, the Council hopes to develop a website, a
printed guide, and possibly a video explaining the nuances of the honor system at Davidson. The possibility of adding an
Honor Code elective to the PE 101 curriculum is being investigated. Further, the Council hopes to enhance relations with the
admissions office by providing specific training for campus tour guides, and assisting visitors and prospective students and their parents by
answering questions concerning the Code.

Plans to achieve an increase in programs aimed at current Davidson students will involve the establishing of a semester Rededication
Day, which could include such events as an interactive mock trial, campus forums, and a public petition of rededication to
be signed by students and faculty. The Council also hopes to display a history of the Honor Code in a
prominent place on campus, and explore the possibility of framing and hanging students’ first-year signatures to the Honor Code registry,
among other goals.

To improve and expand relations with faculty and staff on campus, the Honor Council hopes to provide a yearly Faculty
Forum as well as a yearly staff presentation and forum. A faculty advisory group will be developed, and a faculty-liaison
program will be established. An explanatory guide will also be published.

Finally, in improving internal organization, the Council will provide a more formal orientation process for new members, and develop a
resource guide for all members. A semester calendar of events will be published, and the Council will attempt to explore
membership in the Center for Academic Integrity, a consortium of schools with Honor Codes. To meet all goals, members of
the Council will divide into several subcommittees, including Internal Operations, Outreach, Rededication Day Organization, Public Relations, and Publications.

These are indeed lofty and extensive aspirations. This is especially true when considering that Honor Council members are, as Parker
describes, “some of the busiest people on campus. Although all members are very dedicated to the cases they hear, organizational
aspects outside of actual trials are not currently a priority.” The comprehensive changes will certainly involve an increase in the
responsibilities of all members. And they seem optimistic. “I’m so excited to be working with the students and faculty of
Davidson in order to promote student recognition and appreciation of the honor code,” enthused freshman member Amber Parke, who will
serve on the Outreach committee.

But why so many changes now? “The changes are due to the desire of the Council to rejuvenate the spirit
of the Code,” commented Honor Council Secretary Tara Davidson ’02. “We have heard that students and faculty are losing faith
in the system and we don’t want this to happen, so we are trying to ensure that the campus continues
to respect and believe in the system. There is nothing wrong with the current system, but everything can always be
improved. As the faculty, staff, and students have changed over the years, interpretations and values of the Code have changed
and we want to make sure that everyone is on the same page.”

“It is not perceived that the current code isn’t working,” confirmed Parker. President Bobby Vagt agrees. “If you look at
the admitted student questionnaire over the past years, you see that the presence of the honor code continues to be
one of the top three or four reasons that people come to Davidson,” he said. “I don’t think it’s a
matter of people not caring about it or endorsing it or finding it important. I think the honor council has
said, ‘we want people to think about the honor code, we don’t want it to be taken for granted.’ People
will appreciate it more if we are more active about it.”

And, as Vagt describes, many don’t even stop to realize the many benefits offered by the Honor Code on campus.
“Some of the greatest parts of the honor code are not negative. I can schedule my own exams, I can
leave things around and not have to worry about somebody taking them. By having programs that talk about how the
process works, people become more sensitive to the [code’s benefits].”

As the members of the Honor Council prepare to embark on their comprehensive undertaking, Parker reflects on the initiation of
a project.That has been very much a long-standing personal goal. “My desire to implement these changes is the reason why
I ran for Honor Council Chair,” said Parker. “I have always felt that the council has a promotional responsibility. We
want to give depth to our community agreement.”

“This is a really significant step in the life of the Honor Council at Davidson,” Parker continued. “We hope to
turn what might now be viewed as a pool of potential jurors into an activist organization.”

Davidson Redefines Plagiarism
By Colin Eagan
Staff Writer

From the application to graduation, Davidson’s Honor Code plays a prominent role in the lives of the Davidson student body.
Many prospective students cite the Code as a reason for applying, and benefits like self-scheduled exams and leaving dorm rooms
unlocked make students’ lives a little bit easier during their four years here.

Many students see the Honor Code’s provisions against lying, cheating, and stealing as fairly straightforward. However, members of the Honor
Council quickly come to realize the Code can be anything but. One of the finest lines is the definition of
plagiarism. Prior to a 1997 change, plagiarism was defined in extremely rigid terms. Even in cases involving first-semester students, “a
faculty member’s hands were tied,” explained President Bobby Vagt. “The faculty thought there should be some flexibility.” Consequently, the definition
was changed slightly, and plagiarism was inserted under the “Cheating” section of the Honor Code. It now reads, “Cheating is
any practice, method, or assistance, whether explicitly forbidden or unmentioned, that involves any degree of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit. Cheating
includes plagiarism, which is representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.”

This new definition has recently been called into question by the current Honor Council. Will Parker ’02, the incoming Honor
Council Chair, explained the potential problem. “Cheating involves ‘dishonesty, fraud or deceit’ — all of those meaning ‘intentional.’ The issue
here is, can plagiarism, in the Davidson College Honor Code context, be unintentional?”

According to Mike Anderson ’02, a current member of the Honor Council, a conviction for plagiarism requires “clear and convincing
evidence of an offense. That’s a tough burden” if plagiarism requires intent. “A student could come in with a paper
that’s clearly plagiarized, but say [he or she] didn’t mean to plagiarize; how do we prove [he or she] meant
to?”

Honor Council members evaluating a plagiarism case must address not only whether plagiarism took place, but whether the student intended
to plagiarize — and if guilt requires intent in the first place. Under the current wording of the Honor Code,
the answer to this last question is somewhat unclear.

Faculty members have also wrestled with this issue; a group of professors aired some concerns with the Faculty Executive Committee
at the beginning of the semester. The Council responded by forming an ad hoc committee under the leadership of outgoing
Honor Council Chair Justin Perkinson ’01. According to Parker, one of the current ideas is to include the phrase “unreasonable
negligence” in the definition of plagiarism, but specific proposals have not yet been discussed with the faculty. The subcommittee has
plans to meet with the faculty next week.

Lee Ann Petty ’01, the outgoing Honor Council Secretary, said she is in favor of a change. “There is a
distinction between sloppy work and plagiarism, but how do you split the two?” Different groups of Honor Council members might
draw the line in different places, leading to possible inconsistencies in rulings and punishments. Furthermore, professors — who are usually
responsible for bringing up plagiarism charges — can interpret the current definition differently. “We need to write a definition that
everyone can interpret with consistency,” Petty explained.

Vagt also pointed to possible differences between faculty members in disciplines; does a math student need to cite a well-known
theorem? “It’s vital that everybody is agreed upon the same definition.”

Among the concerns raised is the issue of Davidson College standards versus standards in the academic world. Many professors feel
that requiring intent for plagiarism holds Davidson students to less rigid requirements, since lifting another’s work in academia — intentionally
or unintentionally — usually spells the end of an academic’s career. Some faculty members would like to see Davidson’s Honor
Code adhere to these stricter requirements. Parker wasn’t sure if he agreed. “I do believe that the Davidson College Honor
Code is different from academia; it’s not a matter of higher or lower standards, it’s just different.

“At the same time, there could be grounds for changing the code to provide the council more leeway in finding
students guilty of doing something wrong. In terms of whether a change should be made, I’m not decided yet. Some
people feel that change isn’t needed, just more training for the Honor Council and for students.”

Whatever the decision of the Honor Council, the committee, and the faculty, change is unlikely to occur quickly; certainly not
before the end of the semester. “It’s going to be really hard to nail down exactly what we want,” Petty
admitted. Any changes would go through the Student Conduct Council (composed of the Dean of Students, the 4 class presidents,
the SGA President and Vice-President, and 6 faculty members). The Student Conduct Council takes two votes, 14 days apart; if
they approved the proposed change, the matter would be turned over to the President and possibly the Board of Trustees.

Students with questions or comments on this issue are encouraged to contact a member of the Honor Council.
