2001-02 basketball season awaits anxious women

Coach Watts demands hard work, expects victory from Wildcat women

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Around the Southern Conference, expectations couldn’t be lower for the Wildcat women’s basketball team entering this year’s campaign. But don’t tell that to Annette Watts. Davidson’s first-year head coach—and only the second Wildcat women’s coach since the program’s rebirth in 1992—Watts inherits an enigma of a squad coming off a topsy-turvy, injury-plagued season that produced just four conference victories and not a single all-conference player. In their pre-season poll, Southern Conference coaches picked Davidson to finish last in the ten-team league.

Yet there’s a palpable confidence in the practice air at Belk Arena this fall. “This team can definitely win this year,” said Watts. “We’re only a week into practice, but already this group is starting to see the light bulbs turn on.” Seeking to draw motivation from the pre-season poll, Watts and her staff have pledged to write a “#10” atop each player’s practice jersey—“and now we get to work at dropping that zero off there,” she explained.

“This really is an outstanding team,” Watts said. “I didn’t get the opportunity to recruit them—instead, they recruited me. But given the chance to recruit these girls, I would have gone out and got each and every one of them.”

The Captains

Watts’ campaign will be led by a trio of veteran captains—seniors Janna Magette and Kelly Copland and redshirt-junior Bethany Schott. Magette, voted the league’s best pure shooter in the pre-season polls, has been one of Davidson’s most prolific three-point shooters ever, and figures to be a centerpiece of the Wildcat offense this winter. Copland, a gritty 6-foot forward, led the Wildcats in rebounding last season. And Schott, coming off an ACL tear that sidelined her for the 2000-01 season, is certain to once again loom large on the blocks this fall.

“What better three [captains] could you have?” mused Watts. “The team will follow those three, those three love the team, and those three want to win. They are perfect complements.” What’s more, all three figure to log considerable minutes—last season only Magette, of the three captains, saw significant floor time. “Teams have to have leaders out there,” said Watts. “The girls will always have [us coaches], but they don’t let us get out there in uniform.”

The Formula

“There are three basic things that we have to do to win,” Watts figured. “We have to get solid defensively. We have to rebound. And we have to score.” More specifically: “Everybody has to score. Janna’s going to get hers, she’s got to get hers. But Bethany has to get hers, Kelly has got to get hers, Ashley has got to get hers... everybody has to feel that responsibility for carrying the scoring load.”

Last year, Davidson was outscored by an average of 12 points (72-60) per SoCon contest. Another key statistic to watch: turnovers. Over the past season, Davidson managed just a .55 assist-to-turnover ratio, whereas opponents dished out .80 assists per turnover. Watts will look to employ a fast-action, determinative offensive attack in an effort to reverse that trend. “We try to push the ball every time we have it. We want to push it on the floor and not let anybody get settled on defense against us.”

The Underclassmen

On a team with no true juniors—though Schott and Leah Uhernik each will assume junior standing this season, having been granted redshirts by the NCAA for ACL injuries (Uhernik will not suit up this season, but will return to the court next year)—a five-deep sophomore class will look to step up as significant contributors.Running the point will be returning starter Ashley Hallsted, a tough-willed and dependable point guard who chipped in almost nine points per game last year. Key in the post will be 6-3 Meghan Bryant and 6-2 Courtney Laird. “For Courtney,” promised Watts, “this is going to be her breakout year. She is talented, she is so talented... put on your boots, she’s gonna be a show.” Guards Robyn Flewelling and Lindsay Shade are expecting strong second seasons. “Enough cannot be said about Lindsay and what she brings to this team,” said Watts. “And Robyn is so deceptive. She has this ability to lull defenders into thinking she’s slow, but then she’s quick as a cat. She’s a great rebounder, and always a threat to score. This sophomore class should be afraid of nothing.”

Watts also inherits a promising trio of first-year players. Much of the buzz thus far has been about Charlotte-product Joy Newsome. “Joy is so coachable,” said Watts. “You show her something one time, and she’s got it down. And she’s got the quickness and athleticism to get it done.” Another local product, Emily Callahan, figures to play a major role. Originally a guard, she’s expected to spend most of this season at the forward position. “Fans are going to like watching her play,” Watts said. “She’s a great rebounder, and a solid, solid shooter.” Callahan recently netted 22 of 24 three-point attempts in practice. Rounding out the 2005 class, Janelle Fassbender of Pickerington, Ohio, promises great things as a backup point guard to Hallsted this season. “Janelle comes from such an outstanding basketball background,” Watts added, “that’s going to make her a real asset to this team.”

Looking Ahead

Davidson opens on November 7 with an exhibition against the Charlotte Stars at Belk Arena. The squad opens regular-season action at the United States Military Academy Tournament in West Point on November 16 & 17. The ’Cats’ first home contest is November 21, when they host the Jacksonville University Dolphins.

First-year head coach Annette Watts and new staff direct 2001-02 campaign

Stepping to the helm of the Wildcat women’s basketball program, Annette Watts brings to Davidson a contagious enthusiasm and an impressive resumé of college-level and high school coaching. A Division I basketball player herself (East Tennessee State University), Watts has coached for almost twenty years—including two years at NC State under Hall of Fame coach Kay Yow, where she helped the Wolfpack to a Final Four finish in 1998. “Coach Watts has tremendous knowledge of the game, tremendous technical skills, a terrific network for recruiting, and a lot of respect in the profession,” said Athletics Director Jim Murphy. “All of those things are important.”

“I talked to a number of people across the country, and Annette Watts was a name that came up on a regular basis. She’s definitely a right fit for us.” Watts most recently coached at Jackson County Comprehensive High School in Jefferson, GA, where the Panthers rolled to a 38-20 record under her direction.

The first-year Wildcat coach filled out her staff with a trio of impressive and technically diverse assistants. Top assistant Sue Harris (also an ETSU alum) is a post specialist and a particularly respected recruiter. Watts first met Harris at an ETSU alumni game, where Harris (then a sophomore Lady Buc) sang the national anthem and delivered a pre-game speech about the building of the ETSU basketball program. “I told [her coach] then and there: If I’m ever in a position to hire that young lady, I’m gonna do it,” recalls Watts.

David Lowery comes to Davidson from Mississippi State, where he served as a graduate assistant coach, student assistant coach, and manager for the Lady Bulldogs’ basketball program. “I was looking for a guy, I thought our staff really needed a male,” said Watts. “And David certainly knows his game.”

Watts’ third assistant, Trevor Lever, also hails from Georgia. A strength and conditioning expert, Lever played college basketball for four years and captained Stetson University’s women’s basketball program during her senior season. “Trevor's done a fine job conditioning this fall,” said Watts. “Our girls are in tip-top shape.”

—Mike Anderson

NEXT WEEK... The Davidsonian takes you inside Wildcat men’s hoops as the veteran team prepares for its quest for Davidson's first SoCon championship in three years.