Completion of New Music Center
By Nick Asma
Senior Staff

The music program at Davidson College will receive a long-awaited boost when the construction of the new music center located in the old Union is completed by August 2002. Facilities will then move from the old Cunningham Center to the completely renovated structure located between Dana and Martin Science buildings.

Music Professor Dr. Bill Lawing expressed his excitement over the new center and emphatically stated its need: “The department is currently using facilities which date from between 1837 and 1962. Cunningham was constructed when we were a men’s college of 900 students. Imagine the demands when we had four full-time faculty, a 25-piece wind ensemble, a 30-piece male chorus, and little else, to today, where we have added a concert choir, a symphony orchestra, electronic music, a major emphasis on applied music (with over 100 people taking lessons), and a rich diversity of course offerings. The faculty and staff are triple their size from Cunningham, and the student enrollment is likely in the same proportions.”

This lack of space has directly affected the department in many negative ways. “As a result, we’ve been working in facilities that are far too small, many of which were not designed for music, and spread out all over the academic part of the campus,” claimed Lawing. “So the renovation is a huge and dramatic improvement for us. There are many commitments which demonstrate this need.”

The new center itself is a complete step up from Cunningham as the entire interior of the old Union has been gutted to provide for every accommodation of a first-rate music facility. Each level will come complete with various new features and amenities. The bottom level, which once was occupied by the bookstore and offices, is being subdivided and “lowered by several feet to allow it to accommodate the cubic space necessary for music. It will house our teaching studios, practice rooms, and electronic music functions,” such as the keyboard room. A central student lounge and mechanical equipment room will also be located in this lower level.

The main floor “will hold faculty offices and a music library that will be the envy of any small college library in the country.” The floor will also include an entrance lobby, classroom, and a seminar area. The top and probably the most impressive floor “will have our large classroom combined with the choir room, a wonderful instrumental rehearsal space, and a recital hall in the space that used to occupy the 900 room.” The large recital hall features a 150-seat area on the top floor and 50 more seats in a surrounding open balcony on the upper mezzanine level.

Said Dr. Lawing, “There are many wonderful architectural details that will come to life as the renovation proceeds. Probably the most important aspect, though, is that we will be reinforcing our music making by being in a unified home, and being in a home whose renovation is specifically designed for our music.”

Mock Trial Excels in Spartanburg
By Roland F. Foss
Staff Writer

In its third year, the Wildcats’ only competing academic team is on the prowl. On October 19 and 20, the Davidson College Mock Trial Association traveled to the University of South Carolina at Spartanburg for a two-day competition. Split into two teams, the students competed with such schools as Middle Tennessee State University, Rhodes College, Furman University, and East Kentucky University. All teams competed four times over Friday the 19th and Saturday the 20th—twice each arguing for the prosecution, twice each for the defense. Each team is composed of three lawyers, three or four witnesses, and one time-keeper, who acts as an alternate.

One of Davidson’s teams tied for third place out of twenty teams at the tournament, and two individual team members were recognized for their excellent performances. Jason Blanford ’05 took fourth place for Outstanding Attorney, and Nikki Thomas received ninth place for Outstanding Expert Witness.

Mock Trial is a national academic organization consisting of more than 300 competing teams nationwide. The organization provides case materials to participating schools every year. This year’s case is a criminal case against a fictional character named Ashley Thornhill. Thornhill is accused of killing his boss, Wendell Tucker.resident of the fictional state of Midlands.

WALT 1610 AM kicks off new year
By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

Although many students may be only vaguely aware of the fact, Davidson does have a student radio station. On November 1st, WALT held an informational meeting in Room 302 of the Alvarez College Union to kick off a year that they hope will hold a spirit of rejuvenation for the college’s student-run radio station.

Now beginning its fifth year of broadcasting, WALT was created by a group of students who wanted a new media outlet. Station manager Rocky Charcon ’03 said that radio was especially attractive to these students because the faculty and administration of the college do not oversee the station. Instead, WALT is governmentally regulated by the FCC and broadcasts as a commercial-free public radio station at 1610 AM.

The station’s headquarters have recently moved to the fourth floor of the Alvarez College Union, and it has taken a while for them to get their equipment set up. The student leaders seemed especially excited about the addition of a new soundboard for their broadcasts. Charcon said that it is a “slow-growing” organization, and that “with the move to the new Union, [they] are hoping for a stronger foothold in the community.”

Radio shows on WALT last an hour long and are open for any student who would like to be trained in using the equipment. Student deejays are relatively free to choose what type of music or talk show they would like to air during their time slots. Charcon said that in the past, many students have used their time to “promote new bands” and “cutting-edge music.”

Lauran Halpin ’03, promotions director for WALT, said that many students have had trouble in the past with station reception in their dorm rooms. Generally, students who have good AM antennae can receive the frequency in their rooms, and nearly every car can get the station within a certain radius around Davidson’s campus. To learn how to get better reception in the dorms, anyone can contact the station’s directors. Additionally, Halpin said that the Union will air the station’s shows over its sound system by the end of the year.

Halpin also promoted the fact that WALT deejays are available to any organizations that need musical entertainment. Patterson Court and other event coordinators should know that the station offers inexpensive rates and a wide selection of music. Any extra money earned augments the station’s budget and helps to make necessary improvements to the organization as a whole.

For students interested in becoming a deejay for WALT, time spots are still available. Interested students can contact Halpin at lahalpin@davidson.edu for more information. Every potential deejay is trained to use the equipment, so no previous experience is necessary.

The mock trial team plans to compete in the Regional Tournament at Furman University in Greenville, SC. According to Jessica Bogo ’02, Executive Coordinator, the recent tournament was “instrumental in refining our case and our skills in preparation for the Regional Tournament.”

“We have been one place away from Nationals every year, and this year we fully intend to make Nationals a reality,” Bogo said. The team will have another chance to practice the case when they travel to Yale University November 8-10 to compete in another tournament. Any student who would like to know more about Mock Trial or any faculty members who would like to become faculty sponsors are encouraged to contact Bogo.

Bikes repaired
Red Bikes, from page 1

released on campus, but Gerstenmier said the program, “will definitely [be] ready to go second semester.” Current questions about the program that remained unanswered include how to make the Code of Responsibility work in keeping the bikes safe, and how to find and punish the abusers of the bikes. Gerstenmier insisted that in the future, destruction of bikes won’t be tolerated. The problem will be addressed through increased support by Davidson Campus Police and a “campus-wide effort” to report any and all perpetrators.

Richard Vinson ’02, when asked his opinion on the Red Bike Program, stated, “I think it’s a great idea. I’ve always thought it was a great idea. And I don’t even ride bikes! If people are too irresponsible to maintain a program like this, then that’s a sad commentary on the Davidson community.”