DAVIDSON COLLEGE . WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2001 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 15

Harris succeeds Erickson at top SGA post
By Colin EAGEN
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association now has a new leader as a result of Monday’s Category II elections. Former Vice-President Joey
Harris ’02 was elected SGA President. Harris won the majority in the Monday election that boasted a record 54.2% student
voter turnout. The twelve-hour debut of Internet voting on campus ended a long week of intense campaigning by Harris and
opponent junior Class President Bobby Pittenger for the SGA presidential seat.

“It feels great to finally have all of this campaigning behind me,” Harris said. “Win or lose, I was just
ready for the waiting to be over!”

With two strong candidates, the campaign was rigorous. Harris’s winning approach was, “Just being myself. I did not want to
over-campaign, which is always a danger in a high-profile campaign like this one, but I also didn’t want it to
seem like I didn’t care.”

With assistance from dozens of friends, both old and new, the Columbia, South Carolina native set out to assure the
students that he was the right one for the job. “I put up a lot of fliers and that was
great in getting to know the freshmen and some of the upperclassmen that I didn’t know,” Harris continued. “Word of
mouth, I think, did it more than anything else, and stressing my experience and accomplishments whenever folks asked me why
they should vote for me was key. Also, I went around to most of the houses, which was a good
move as well. But all in all, I was myself, which is important in any type of campaign.”

And Harris’s original zeal was infectious. As his campaign manager Eliza Wright ’04 noted:

Noted author shares views on literature and politics
By Brent Byars
Staff Writer

Some 34 years ago, novelist Tim O’Brien was in much the same position as this year’s graduating class. Graduating college
summa cum laude and winning a full graduate fellowship to study at Harvard, O’Brien was sure to have a future
in whatever field he chose. Unlike this year’s seniors, however, the United States of O’Brien’s youth was at war. Drafted
to Vietnam, and to a war that he later called “a wrong war,” O’Brien’s future was irrevocably altered. The conflict
between a young man’s conscience and a community’s expectations later formed the basis for some of O’Brien’s most compelling fiction.

Avid fans of the war novel, Vietnam War scholars, and modern literature critics alike hold up Tim O’Brien as one
of our nation’s most important novelists. He published his first novel, If I Die in a Combat Zone, to critical
acclaim shortly after returning from Vietnam. In 1979, Going After Cacciato, a novel about a soldier who goes AWOL and
the journey he takes, won the National Book Award in Fiction. In the Lake of the Woods was a national
bestseller and was proclaimed the best novel of 1994 by Time Magazine. The Things They Carried, which presents fiction as
fact and turns traditional values of reality and truth on their heads, was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize and
is currently under study by freshmen and sophomores in Literary Analysis classes offered by the English department.

Now 51 years old, O’Brien continues to write about Vietnam. He has recently agreed to speak at several colleges partly,
he says, to meet and talk to people from different backgrounds. The Literary Arts Committee and the Departments of English
and History sponsored his visit to Davidson. Ben Carter, Vice Chair of the Literary Arts Committee, opened O’Brien’s reading Wednesday
night in the words of Tim O’Brien.Brien, advising the audience to “look behind the fact” and not to “substitute fact
for truth, knowledge for wisdom.” His figure diminutive behind the massive lectern at Love Auditorium, O’Brien took the stage with
an apology for the profanity he was about to use. He explained that writing about such a topic as Vietnam
was for him “extremely hard to write, extremely personal.” O’Brien then read stories from *The Things They Carried*.

O’Brien explained, “Joey Harris is a genuine person who cares about people and their concerns. Davidson students trust Joey to
represent them effectively in SGA. With his dynamic personality and firm dedication, he has paved the way for many great
changes on this campus. Voters knew they could rely on Joey to be an effective leader.”

President Dane Erickson ‘01 SGA President Joey Harris ‘02 (left) is congratulated by outgoing President Dane Erickson. “He has some
great ideas,” noted Evan Mayer ‘04. Harris’s participation in Sunday’s Election Council candidate debate, which included a question and answer
session, only solidified his popularity with the student body.

Aaron Houck DIA, FIJI await Vagt’s decision on Union Outpost
By Linny Baldwin
Staff Writer

Despite delays in construction and debates over its future, the Outpost will soon vacate its home on Patterson Court for
a spot in the new Knobloch Campus Center. The decision about what to do with the new space on the
Court is now in the hands of President Bobby Vagt. The fate of the Outpost’s old building came one step
closer to being decided, however, when the Council on Campus and Religious Life endorsed the Davidson International Association’s petition to
move in when the Outpost moves out.

The CCRL, a presidential advisory committee composed of students, faculty, and staff, heard three different proposals for the Outpost’s future
before deciding to endorse DIA. According to Joey Harris, a student representative on the CCRL, Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) also
put in a bid for the house. The third idea came from a group of students who suggested keeping it
an open space. It would be available to any organization who wanted to use it, the way the Union conference
rooms are. After hearing arguments from all sides, the CCRL voted to endorse DIA’s petition. For Harris, DIA’s most persuasive
argument centered on the idea of diversity. “The Davidson mission statement indicates a commitment to diversity,” he explained, and it
was difficult to deny a petition from an organization devoted to diversity and student education, especially since DIA’s ITS members
“have no space to call their own.”

DIA president Shalini Unnikrishnan ‘01 described DIA’s reaction to the vote as “thrilled and excited,” not the least because of
the encouraging words the organization received during the meeting. “We knew we needed CCRL support,” she explained. “We know it’s
not the end, but we’re extremely excited.” Unnikrishnan said DIA (formerly the International Student Association) has been...

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Internet voting
After much planning and programming, all agreed that the debut of internet voting was a success. This year’s first day
of Category II elections showed a marked increase in voter participation.
NEWS page 4

Voice your views
Given the success of internet voting, Sophomore Kevin Epps hopes to use a new “online forum” to help the SGA
and administrators stay in touch with the issues important to students.
NEWS page 5

Cyan slides
Dr. Michael Toumazou made a rare find about his favorite topic, his native country of Cyprus, in the strangest of
places. His discovery now graces the walls of the VAC’s Smith Gallery.
ARTS & LIVING page 6

Not on my time
With all the talk about building community, could an institutionalized community hour really make a difference?
PERSPECTIVES page 8
