Cohen,
from page 1

use force [to reunify with Taiwan], but they reserve the right to do so as a sovereign nation,” recalled Cohen.

Weapons of mass destruction pose another significant threat to global security. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons are being proliferated in spite of the nation’s efforts. The menace of such weapons in the hands of “states of concern” necessitates a limited missile defense system. Cohen also noted that 120 cities across the country are being prepared for how they would react in the event of a chemical or biological attack.

Students had mixed reactions to Cohen’s lecture. Mark Cody ’01 said that some of those with whom he had spoken “were expecting Mr. Cohen to give Davidson the insider perspective on national issues.” Since his comments were more general, “they were slightly disappointed.”

Cody, on the other hand, gave the speech high praise. “His presentation was top notch, cracking jokes, trying to relate to Davidson, and giving some personal experiences.”

Amanda Britt ’01 gave a similar evaluation. “I thought [Secretary Cohen] made many valid points concerning national security and foreign policy,” she remarked. She also thought some of his points were so politically pragmatic as to be “bullets to many Davidson ears.”

“While I did not agree completely with all of his views, I was able to understand his reasoning for them,” she added. In particular, she felt Cohen made a good, if somewhat “sentimental,” case for the necessity of a limited missile defense system.

Cohen also exemplified what Cody called “a true moderate politician.” The statesman offered some of his perspectives on partisan politics in his press conference. “I always tried to find like-minded Democrats [as a Republican senator],” he explained. “If I thought a Democrat had a good idea, I would support it, just as I would expect the same from him or her.”

Cohen’s attitude reflected both the “independent” political climate in his home state of Maine and his personal beliefs about representative government. “From my experience as an elected official, you have to govern from the center,” stated Cohen.

Cohen concluded his speech with his own vision of the nation’s future. He said that the US is poised between “its idealism and its cynicism,” while the outcome remains uncertain. “The race is on between its vitality and its decadence,” he explained, and future generations must decide the nation’s fate. Thus, Cohen closed as he opened, exhorting students to focus on individuals like Davidson’s own Dean Rusk, those who “have devoted themselves to lives of public service.”

Houston,
from page 1

generation of motherly affection.”

Arbuckle presented the small lady with a large glass trophy and “a little something so you can get a new Sunday dress.” After the presentation, Houston was almost tearful as she recalled her 40 years working for DC and wondered at the fact that she is “the only thing left from 1943.”

Staff members talked about how much fun it was to work with Houston. Betty Brown has worked in the laundry for 32 years, but “can’t recall a more special lady. Working with her is just fun.”

Houston took the time to talk to old friends and students alike, distributing hugs liberally, even to this news writer who had never met her before. When pressed, she will tell you she is “humbled, it’s such a joy, but there are no words.”

“Lord let me make it this year,” she concluded, reverently and optimistically.

Full Service Auto Repair:
Brakes Oil Changes
Tune-ups NC Inspections
Air Conditioning
Computer Alignment & Wheel Balancing

Serving Lake Norman since 1992

704-892-6590
18705 Statesville Rd., Cornelius
www.lakenormanauto.com
M-F 7:30-5:30, Sat. 8-12

LAKE NORMAN

9 Years Serving The Lake

5% Discount on Parts & Labor to Davidson Students, Faculty, and Staff.

Must show ID. Does not include NC state inspection.

BRIDGESTONE
A GRIP ON THE FUTURE

Firestone

DAYTON

DUNLOP
DRIVING TO THE FUTURE

Free Rotation with purchase of a set of tires!