Offensive power helps baseball win series over VMI
Wildcats take two of three games to keep postseason hopes alive

By Hinps Howard
Staff Writer

The baseball team took the trip up to rural Lexington, Va., this weekend for three games with VMI. The trip
proved a success as the Wildcats took the first two games 8-7 and 17-4, before running out of offense and
losing the final game 8-2. The wins put the team in position to make a run at the eighth and
final Southern Conference tournament spot. Ranked eleventh entering the weekend, Davidson (9-15 in SoCon) needed to string together some conference
wins and VMI, last in the conference, looked to be the easiest place to get them. But the Keydets (4-14
in SoCon) were resilient in each game, refusing to throw in the towel on a hopeless season.

The two wins were hard-earned for Davidson. In the first game, Davidson jumped out to a 7-0 lead after three
innings, behind a flurry of RBI singles and a pair of sacrifice flies. VMI battled back against Wildcat starter Jeremiah
Parvin, scoring single runs in the third and fourth innings. In the fifth, after a rare walk by Parvin, the
Keydets bashed back-to-back doubles and a two-out RBI single, scoring three more runs and pulling within two at 7-5. Davidson
got its final run on a costly error by the VMI shortstop on a short fly to center off the
bat of Dylan Deal, which allowed Billy Ryan to score from first base.

In relief of Parvin, sophomore Andy Demko gave up a home run in the seventh and another run in the
eighth on a bloop single, and the Wildcats suddenly clung to a single run lead 8-7. But junior slugger Tim
Frend took over on the mound in the eighth, ended the threat, and retired the side in the ninth for
his fourth save. Parvin (3-3) earned the victory after pitching five innings and allowing five runs on nine hits and
three walks, while striking out three. Stroker paced the Wildcat offense with three hits, extending his hitting streak to 15
games.

Rescheduled into a Sunday doubleheader after rain early Saturday, game two was worth the wait. Davidson posted a season-high 17
runs behind a season-high five home runs in crushing the defenseless Keydets 17-4. As they did in the first game,
the Wildcats came out swinging, posting nine runs through three innings. The production came from an unlikely source. Co-captain Cassidy
Lundin came out of nowhere and smacked the second pitch of the third inning over the right field fence for
his first career home run after 424 at-bats as a Wildcat.

VMI mounted a small comeback in the third inning off of sophomore Derrik Wolpert. Wolpert did not last long, leaving
after the third with elbow pain. In a sling on Monday, Wolpert was unsure of the extent of his injury.
"I haven’t gone to the doctor yet, and once I do, we will go from there, but right now, I
don’t know," he said. The loss of their most consistent pitcher for any amount of time cannot help the Wildcats’
playoff run.

Mark Wells filled the immediate void left by Wolpert. After giving up a run in the fifth, he shut down
the Keydets. Wells (3-5) gave up only two hits, no walks, and the single run in his best outing this
year. The Wildcats tacked on eight insurance runs, four each in the sixth and eighth innings, behind Billy Ryan’s first
two homers of the season. Lundin’s second home run on the day followed Ryan’s second one, capping an explosive offensive
spectacle. Frend and Ryan each had four RBIs for the victorious Wildcats.

Co-captain Wes Self took the hill in the third game, hoping to capitalize on some more Wildcat offense. But once
again, he was offered little support by Davidson’s fickle bats. A sacrifice fly plated the first Keydet run in the
first inning, but Davidson capitalized on an error in the second to score a run as well, tying the ball
game at 1-1. Self fell apart in the third after a two-out error that led to a three-run home run
and a 4-1 VMI lead. After four innings, the Keydets had the game in control and brought in Phil Hendrix,
the pitcher Davidson Head Coach Dick Cooke said was, “their best arm.” Hendrix, a sophomore right-hander, has not given up
a lead all year, and has appeared in all of VMI’s wins this season. Davidson managed to put up only
one run against him and was disastrous in the field, resulting in the 8-2 loss.

One bright spot in the game came when junior outfielder Steve Aldrich slapped a double down the left field line
for the first extra-base hit of his career. Cooke was pleased with his team’s performance in the first two games.
“We played flawless defensively the first two games and just didn’t...Play as well in the field the third game, which
hurt us,” he said. “They pitched pretty well the third game. We had no errors in the first two games
and simply made plays when we needed to. Our pitchers threw strikes, and we made plays. VMI hit well enough,
and when they give a game to Hendrix, they are tough.” Davidson will continue its drive for the tournament this
weekend in a crucial home series against Wofford (7-10, seventh in SoCon).

The focus of the baseball team at this point in the season is always the race for a spot in
the Southern Conference Tournament. Of the 11 teams in the conference, only the top eight make it to the tournament.
After a winning series over VMI last weekend, the Wildcats have climbed into the ninth spot in the conference but
are only a few percentage points out of the eighth spot, which they need to secure in the next few
weeks if they want to make it to the tournament. The tournament will be played from May 16 to May
20 at The Citadel’s home field, Riley Park, in Charleston.

Standard double-elimination narrows the eight-team field to two, one from the winner’s bracket and one from the loser’s bracket, for
a Saturday championship. If the team from the loser’s bracket wins then, they will play a final game on Sunday.
The winner of the tournament must play a minimum of four games in four days but can play as many
as six games in five days. It’s obvious that the team that wins will have to have an extremely deep
pitching staff to survive the week. After the five-day tournament, regionals competition starts the following Thursday on May 24.

As Head Coach Dick Cooke explains, the Southern Conference teams always have their sights on regionals, “Coaches in the Southern
Conference know that baseball in the conference is very good, and they expect to play well in the regional tournament
and do some damage,” he said. “The goal for most Southern Conference teams is not to win the conference, but
to do something after that in regionals. The regional championship is not out of reach for any Southern Conference team.”
Any SoCon champion will be a contender for regionals. Most notably, The Citadel made it to the College World Series
in 1990 after winning the SoCon and the regional tournament. UNC Greensboro has made a few runs in the regional
tournament as well.

For Davidson, however, the goal is to reach the tournament. The seedings will be complicated this year because some teams
will not play the full amount of conference games. VMI and Wofford have had several games rained out, and Appalachian
State and the College of Charleston had an entire series snowed out last week. The seedings are based not on
wins, but rather winning percentage. This gives a clear advantage to the four teams in the conference that won’t play
as many games as the others. While VMI (4-14) will not factor into the final seedings, teams like Wofford (7-10)
and College of Charleston (8-12) could finish ahead of Davidson with fewer wins. Traditional powerhouses like The Citadel and UNCG
should be near the top, but the lower seeds are extremely close in percentage points.

Davidson has not fared well in the tournament over the years. Last year’s early exit after losses to UNCG and
The Citadel has become standard for the Wildcats. When asked what it takes to win at the tournament, Cooke responded,
“You have to be firing on all cylinders. Pitching depth is a major factor. If you lose a game, you
are going to have to play six games in four days to win it all, so you have to get
innings from your pitchers. You have to be in good enough condition as a team to where you can potentially
throw a guy on two days rest. Whoever is in the winner’s bracket that final day is going to have
an advantage in that they will only have played three games. But as we saw last year when Furman made
a run, anything is possible. If we can have everything come together for us, we could be a threat in
the tournament.”

Optimism can only get you so far, and with the recent injury to pitcher Derrik Wolpert, the Wildcats are surrounded
by huge question marks as to whether they will even make the tournament at this point. Only time will tell,
and as a fourth-ranked Furman team showed last season with an unexpected run to the tournament final, anything is possible
in Southern Conference play.
