Last but not least - Hunt wraps up year with senior Clifford

By Martha Hunt
Arts & Living Editor

Welcome to the very last interview of the year. It’s been an interesting experience for me to meet various members of the student body, from a red-head who thinks he’s the “Man of Destiny” to a female freshman from Ethiopia. And from the feedback I’ve been getting, it looks like many of you are enjoying the dialogues. That’s great. That’s why we started this feature - to give you a sense of adventure, a thrill of suspense, every time you thumb through the Davidsonian. Okay, maybe it’s not that earth-shattering. But at least it’s a good diversion.

Ah, the sunny skies and warm breezes tell me that summer is not far away. The dark circles under my eyes tell me that I’m over my head in research papers and exam preparation. Will this oppression ever end? Am I doomed to endless nights of studying and weekends spent in the library? Apparently, four years spent at Davidson have a tendency to fly by. That’s according to Matt Clifford, a senior getting dangerously close to graduating.

MH: So you’re really excited about this interview?
MC: Of course.

MH: Well, I’m not one to beat around the bush, so let’s get started. Do you have any siblings?
MC: This is a complicated subject. I have one sister who is my biological sister and four half-brothers... one from my mom’s previous marriage and triplets from my dad’s. I’m very close to my sister who is two years younger than I am - she’s a sophomore at Clemson.

MH: Have you ever had an imaginary friend?
MC: Yes. My best friend in grade school had imaginary friends... His name was Jaime and his friend was Jaime on South Boulevard. And mine was “Matt Cliff,” and he was an arctic explorer. He was cool. I just had him. Just one.

MH: Have you ever set a body part on fire for fun?
MC: (looks at me really weird... and thinks) I don’t know why there was a delay, but no. Never. (laughs)

MH: Did you ever have a crush on a teacher?
MC: I currently have a crush on a teacher, but I won’t tell you who. Other than that, no. Just currently. That’s gonna weird people out, definitely... they’ll be emailing me like “what’s going on?”

MH: Who do you go to for advice?
MC: My Magic 8-Ball. Haha. Just kidding. Actually, my mother and sister. Not to imply that they’re my “eight-ball.” And Omarr’s Horoscope in the Charlotte Observer. Although that’s not exactly advice... but it’s been a staple in my life for 21 years.

MH: So, what do you think of Davidson?
MC: I’m excited about graduation, but not about graduating. I’m from Charlotte, but I never go home, because I like the atmosphere here. I refer to Davidson as my home, really. Yeah, there’s a certain amount of nostalgia. Not so much the place, but the people. The professors, the team, the people, and the experience of playing a sport at a collegiate level. In the end, I don’t remember the practices, or even the times and personal performance. I remember the folks I’ve had the privilege to be in and out of the water with as friends. In the future, I can’t call back on those individual practices, but I can call back on the friends I made.

MH: What’s your first move after you graduate?
MC: To the car? (laughs). My first move is down I-77 to my home in Charlotte. I was hoping to be able to tell you that I had been accepted into the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, but they’re just not cooperating... (smiles) That’s another time you can be in an environment like this, with the same people. So I’d say savor the time here and remember it. It’s supposed to be challenging, but if you can’t have any fun with it then what’s the point?

MH: Did your four years go by really quickly?
MC: YES, they flew by.

MH: What did you do last night?
MC: I went out to dinner with my girlfriend. I went to hang out at the senior apartments where they had...Collected $260.13 in change throughout the year to throw themselves a party. I went out and frolicked and what-not. I played on the slip-and-slide, hit some kids with water balloons. Any excuse to be a kid is good, friends.

MH: As you prepare to leave, is there anything significant that you remember about your life here?

MC: Mainly just big-picture stuff. Swimming for four years definitely shaped my experience. It was wonderful because it wasn’t just “freshman” - I’m still really good friends with lots of the guys from Basement Belk - that’s something that Davidson really prides itself on. Those folks have meant a great deal to me.

MH: What made you get involved with the Honor Council?

MC: I don’t think anyone just does it on a whim. It’s very different from SGA or other student government offices. It’s “public service.” It’s very thankless work. You’re not bringing new basketball courts, or new parking. You’re not doing visible, progressive things for the campus. It’s regressive sometimes in that we have to send people home, but it’s progressive in that we are helping to maintain the Honor Code, and that’s what holds us together. I guess I felt “called” to protect the Code, more than anything. And strengthen it by my service.

MH: What role has swimming played in your college experience?

MC: Swimming has helped me look as good as I do right now. (laughs) After 12 years of swimming, I’m done, and I don’t feel compelled to get back in the water. The sport isn’t in my blood, so to speak. It’s more the experience that has shaped me.

MH: How do you eat an Oreo?

MC: With LOTS of milk. Like, it’s gotta be soggy; you submerge the entire Oreo in a glass of milk, and when the cookie part is soggy, then it’s time to come out. If it’s not soggy it’s not ready.

MH: How do you eat a Reese’s?

MC: Cup or piece?

MH: Cup.

MC: Miniature or regular?

MH: Whichever you eat more of.

MC: Well, I eat miniature most often. By the handful. Ha! Just kidding. I eat around the bottom, then the edges, until only the peanut butter is left. Imitation peanut butter is really gross when it’s by itself but I guess I have an affinity for it.

MH: Who makes you happy?

MC: (thinks for a long time) Geez. My NeoPet. (smirks) It’s a little computerized pet that Davidsonian readers can get at “neopet.com.” My pet’s name is “DC Little Buddy.” Neopets is my newest procrastination tool. My pet is a genius. He’s read 18 books.

MH: Who makes you mad?

MC: Uh, who makes me mad... hmmm. (plays around on his computer while thinking) Hey! My neopet just read another book!

MH: Stop playing with that thing.

MC: Okay. Sorry. Hmmm. Nobody really makes me mad... well, it makes me mad when people don’t respect the Honor Code.

MH: What secrets can you give the lower-classmen?

MC: Work hard, play hard. Put the books down every once in a while for ten minutes, play frisbee golf, or take a walk, and take your book, if you feel so inclined. My dad, before I came to school, said (he’s really into superlatives) “These will be the greatest four years of your life.” Although I’m only 21 years into that life, I think I’d have to agree.

GRILLED CHEESE - VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE - VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP - SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD

Hopefully my second or third move after I graduate. It’s a year of service through the Catholic Church but it’s ecumenical in the sense that anyone can join on. I’m kind of looking to go to Boston, or Washington DC, or New York.

To buy a computer? You may order a computer through Information Technology Services from June-August. See this website for more information: www.davidson.edu/computing/purchasing/students. Computers are sold only to enrolled Davidson students for their personal use. Specific information about the sales program will be available after June 1, 2001.