Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $300 round trip plus tax.
Europe $179 one way plus tax.

Other worldwide destinations cheap.
If you can beat these prices, start your own damn airline!

Book tickets online at www.airtech.com or call (212) 219-7000.

- America.

New group advocates reproductive rights

By Timothy Cook
News Editor

The Reproductive Rights Alliance of Davidson (RRAD) was granted its charter this week. The SGA voted on Tuesday to make the group an official group at Davidson, said Kristine Harrington ’03, who founded the group earlier this semester.

The idea for a group focusing on reproductive rights originated early last semester, after Harrington spent last summer interning for the Washington, D.C.-based National Abortion Federation, the largest professional association of abortion providers in North America. One of her assignments in the Communications Department was to create a college outreach project, using NAF’s nationwide public service advertising campaign.

The project raised her awareness about the issue and made her decide to come back and create a pro-choice group at Davidson.

“My experiences working at NAF made me realize how important it is to generate discussion about reproductive choice with people of my generation. We have come to take our freedom for granted because that freedom has always been a part of our lives,” said Harrington.

RRAD emphasizes its focus on choice, not on abortion. “So many people tend to equate ‘pro-choice’ and ‘pro-abortion,’” Harrington noted. “The two are very different concepts. I’m sure there are some people who may not be totally comfortable with the idea of abortion, but don’t believe that that choice should be taken away from anyone else. That is what makes you pro-choice, no matter what your personal views on abortion itself may be.”

The group will focus mostly on education. Ideas for possible projects include working with the Health Education Department in providing accurate information about contraceptives, bringing NAF’s advertising campaign about mifepristone (commonly known as RU-486) to campus, and bringing in speakers to facilitate discussion about reproductive issues. Harrington says the group also plans to co-sponsor events with other organizations on campus about issues related to choice.

RRAD members will have the option of participating in political activism, with letter-writing campaigns to government officials. There has also been talk of getting interested members to be trained as clinic escorts, to assist patients and providers during protests outside North Carolina abortion clinics. The organization has also become a part of the Pro-Choice Coalition of Charlotte.

Harrington is also very excited about the “Emergency Action Plan to Save Reproductive Rights,” a campaign initiated by the National Organization for Women, culminating in a march on Washington, D.C. in April. “The Emergency Action Plan is a nationwide effort to raise awareness among women everywhere that the actions thus far by President Bush have already threatened our reproductive freedoms. Several students from other organizations have already expressed interest in driving up to D.C. and taking part in the march,” Harrington said.

For more information about the National Abortion Federation, see the website at www.prochoice.org, and its companion website about RU-486 at www.earlyoptions.org. For more information about the Emergency Action Plan to Save Reproductive Rights, see www.now.org.

- Full Service Auto Repair:
  Brakes ~ Oil Changes
  Tune-ups ~ NC Inspections
  Air Conditioning

- Computer Alignment & Wheel Balancing

Serving Lake Norman since 1992
704-892-6590
18705 Statesville Rd., Cornelius

www.lakenormanauto.com
M-F 7:30-5:30, Sat. 8-12

Celebrating 9 Years Serving The Lake Norman Area

10% Discount on Parts & Labor
Must show ID. Does not include NC state inspection.

BRIDGESTONE: A GRIP ON THE FUTURE
Firestone
DAYTON
MICHELIN
DUNLOP
DRIVING TO THE FUTURE

Free Rotation with purchase of a set of tires!