By Christina Cooke
Staff Writer

Davidson Outdoors has packed its spring calendar with trips of every kind. This week, February 19-23, the campus celebrates the
backpacking, caving, canoeing, kayaking, and fly-fishing trips to come with “Into the Woods Week,” a series of outdoor-related activities. All
week from 11:20 a.m. until 2 p.m., a D.O. table outside on the Union patio (inside the Union if it
rains) will offer students information on upcoming trips, display photos taken on past trips, and most importantly, dole out handfuls
of GORP—the peanuts, raisins, and M&M’s mix that most consider the highlight of every D.O. trip.

The week’s festivities kicked off on Monday morning with a Frisbee Golf Tournament that led students around campus from tree
to bench to light post. At 6 p.m. that night, another group headed half an hour down I-77 to scale
the walls and ceilings of the Inner Peaks Climbing Wall in Charlotte. This Inner Peaks climbing excursion was not just
a one-time event. Every week at 6 p.m., a group meets at the D.O. office and shuttles to Inner Peaks,
where for $5, beginners can learn to climb while the advanced shimmy up, down, and across the walls.

On Tuesday afternoon, students gathered in front of the Union to behold the inaugural roll across campus of the 20
new community bikes brought to us by Rob McKeehan ’01, Bobby Pittenger ‘02, and the SGA. Each of the shiny
red cruisers comes equipped with a kickstand, a combination lock, and a set of coaster brakes—much to the delight of
students who, atop an old community bike and midway down a hill, have discovered its lack of braking power.

Tuesday afternoon, Biology Professor Mark Stanback hosted a bird walk around campus. As he led the students around the natural
areas near Jackson Court and Baker Sports Complex, he pointed out the wrens, sparrows, starlings, and chickadees perched overhead and
filled in the participants on bits of natural history.

On Tuesday night, ecologist and theologian James A. Nash, author of “Loving Nature: Ecological Integrity and Christian Responsibility,” delivered a
lecture entitled “Too Many Steps Too Far: Living Within Ecological Limits” in which he discussed the ecological consequences of exceeding
natural boundaries.

The Union patio saw an invasion of ailing bikes on Wednesday morning as students wheeled in their rides for tune-ups.
Mike Goode and Rob McKeehan repacked hubs, aligned wheels, cleaned chains, and instructed students on how to implement such repairs
themselves. That afternoon, rattlesnakes and copperheads lazed around the floor of the Home Room while Biology Professor Michael Dorcas delivered
his Snakes Alive! presentation to a group of very interested, slightly fearful students.

A series of stunts, much like those on Mountain Dew commercials, will light a screen in the 900 Room as
D.O. presents Sawtooth Film Festival at 10 p.m. Wednesday night. The festival consists of a sequence of clips that range
from 4 to 27 minutes in length. Each clip exhibits extreme athletes performing sports including skiing, surfing, kayaking, and biking.

At the weekly CROP lunch, from 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Thursday in the Morrison Room, students are invited
to share quotations, poems, and short stories relating to nature. While speaking or listening, students can enjoy a plate of
beans, rice, and cornbread by donating a dollar or two to the Loaves and Fishes food pantry.

On Thursday night at 8:30 p.m., students in Writers show Davidson how to capture and communicate memories.

By Jeremy Hunt
Special Contributor

“We write poetry to save things...to save the child within...to save those who have died.” These were the words of
Dr. Tony Abbott as he introduced his work to an enraptured Davidson audience. English professors Dr. Abbott and Dr. Brenda
Flanagan were the featured artists for the third annual “Davidson Reads.” They did indeed save things this night; they resurrected
memories and commemorated the lives of those who had touched theirs.

Dr. Abbott began the evening by introducing Dr. Flanagan. She read a story based on an account of a young
girl, Claudette, who had the gall to refuse her bus.Seat to a group of white children in Montgomery, Alabama. The
poignancy of the story rested in the fact that this act preceded, by nearly nine months, a similar one by
Rosa Parks. Sadly, Claudette was sent away by an ashamed community to live in New York. The story was told
in retrospect, as Claudette talked to the audience about the news that, 40 years hence, Rosa Parks was the one
receiving a medal for her bravery and courage. She may not have gotten the public recognition she deserved, but thanks
to Dr. Flanagan’s gifted writing and impassioned reading, this DC audience celebrated Claudette.

Dr. Abbott concluded the evening with 10 poems from his published works. He chose to celebrate characters from Davidson life,
a “Davidson retrospective,” as he put it. His poems reflected a life deeply touched by both God and man, with
plenty of humor and wit mixed in. He told of encounters with students, who inspired a number of the poems
he read that night. Admonishing the audience never to grow up, he also spoke of the difficulty of growing physically
older in a touching work entitled “Alphabet Soup.” This writing described the challenges of keeping names and faces straight in
a life that has impacted so many people. Dr. Abbott’s works rejoiced in the pain, the pleasure, and the mystery
of our lives on this earth. Both he and Dr. Flanagan succeeded in capturing the audience and, hopefully, encouraging them
to view life with a new freshness and wonder.

Spray skirts will slip themselves into kayaks, and, afloat in the Baker pool, they’ll either learn or refine their kayak
rolling techniques. Instructors will coach those who have never rolled before. Although D.O. provides all of the equipment necessary, they
welcome students to bring their own kayaks, provided they are clean. Also at 8:30, another group of Davidson students will
meet for a night climb at the Challenge Course, where they will ascend the high ropes course under the stars.
On the course, students can climb, balance, and soar through the air on the giant swing, which allows participants to
choose how high to be lifted and when to let go. If interested, stop by the D.O. office beforehand to
sign up and receive more information.

Cole Barton, Davidson Physics Professor and avid recreational fly fisherman, will present a fly-casting demonstration on Friday from 11:30 a.m.
to 2 p.m. on Chambers lawn. Barton will instruct students as to the techniques with rods and tackle provided by
D.O. Another group of students will clean the stream that runs behind the Senior Apartments on Friday afternoon. Plan to
meet in the Union lobby at 2 p.m., wearing clothes that can stand some mud. Davidson’s very own Appalachian Trail
through-hiker, Physics Professor Tim Gfroerer, will share stories and pictures from his Maine to Georgia experience at Erwin Lodge on
Friday at 6 p.m. over a potluck dinner. Those interested, contact D.O. to sign up. And finally, Elaine Baker will
lead a day hike on Saturday, starting at 8 a.m. Again, sign up with D.O. in advance.

By offering such a variety of films, lectures, instructions, and fun, D.O. hopes to generate enthusiasm among students for outdoor
activities available to them. “The purpose of ‘Into the Woods Week’ is to remind students that spring is outside and
to encourage them to get out in it,” says D.O. Union Board representative Anna Padget ’01. “At Davidson, we’re not
that far from great rivers and mountains. You’ve got to remember to go out and play.”

Junior Class President Bobby Pittenger was one of the students most involved in expanding the red bike program. He was
one of the first to try out the new models.

Into the Woods Week Schedule courtesy of D.O. website:

THURSDAY
11:30-2:00 | Nature Readings with Dr. Ingram at CROP Union Patio lunch

FRIDAY
11:30-2:00 | Fly Casting with Dr. Barton
Afternoon | Davidson Creek Stream Cleanup Project
Evening | Kayak Rolling
Evening | Night Climb on the Challenge Course
Dinner | Appalachian Trail Hike Talk with Dr. Gfroerer

SATURDAY
Day Hike with Elaine Baker
Service Caving with Elijah
Stargazing
