The Interview (yes, it’s back). By MARTHA Hunt Arts and Living Editor

Aaaah. After a long and grueling summer, it’s time to hit the books again. What? You had a great, relaxing summer? Well, I’m happy to hear it. You should have sent me a postcard. At least then I would have known that summer vacations DO exist. As for me, I confirmed that working for an engineering company in a trailer is NOT what I want to do upon graduation. “A studio art major?” you ask. “Doing data entry? What’s the logic behind that?” Beyond the obvious (moolah), don’t ask. Long story. The point is that I’m still alive, still sane (at least I think so), and still selecting unsuspecting students for random interviews. Heck, compared to the past three months, being at Davidson almost feels like a vacation. I must be getting desperate.

But enough of my summer saga. I was really looking forward to being back on campus, you know, as a sage sophomore, not a puny freshman (by the way, puny is an assessment of myself, not others in my class). Yes, I had great visions of returning to campus, renewing friendships, knowing the ropes, not having to worry about anything being unfamiliar. Ha. Famous last words. Since my grand re-entry, I have discovered to my chagrin that I’m in a strange new world. Can you say “twilight zone”? Nothing is the same! For all I know, my freshman year never happened!

Take, for example, the tables in Commons. No longer is eating an individualistic opportunity, where you can choose where and with how many people you would like to munch. Eating has become a conformist ritual, a somewhat awkward standoff as different clusters of students are thrown together against their will. Those tables are all messed up. Last year I was perfectly content, sitting alone at one of the small ones by the window. Now I have to traipse all the way over to one end of the cafeteria just to find that one last round table upon which a group of socialites hasn’t swooped down. Quite disturbing.

Among other unsettling qualities, the dirt paths I used to walk every day from Belk to Chambers have been erased! Grass now grows where my feet once trod. All evidence of my faithful journey to morning classes has vanished. The Union, which I had just begun to call my own, is gutted. I rode by on my bike last night, and ghostly darkness stared back at me from what used to be the 900 Room. Spooky. The Outpost is gone too! Only whispers escape from that colorful building once bursting with noise. And last, but certainly not least, is the library. That new classroom - they just had to pick the spot where I always studied. I leave for summer and come back to find my favorite study spot annihilated. All those shiny new computers mock me: “Hahaha! Go find a NEW study spot! There’s no room for you here! You just might have to climb the stairs!” So I did. Yes, I climbed the stairs, tip-toed to my second favorite study spot, and almost shrieked in horror. Someone has rearranged my house! All the desks and chairs did a tango while I was gone and landed in different spots. Whew. I am left to flail in this huge sea of newness. Maybe I should re-enroll in the Class of 2005 just to make my green horns official! But as I would undoubtedly become the laughingstock of the Registrar’s Office, I decided to interview a real member of the incoming class. For these upcoming stars, this place really is new. You couldn’t ask for a more untainted perspective. Jessica Perkins, the subject of this week’s whacked-out questionnaire, graciously agreed to be interviewed.

MH: Jessica, thanks so much for coming. I hope I didn’t freak you out when I introduced myself at Commons.

Jessica Perkins: (smiling, laughs) No, no. Not at all. I was just really surprised that you knew who I was.

MH: Well, there are ways. I just looked you up in the facebook.

JP: I see.

MH: So let’s get right down to business. From where do you hail?

JP: Rochester, New York. I’ve lived there for 10 years.

MH: Wow. Sounds like home. So what were some favorite games that you liked to play when you were little?

JP: Uh, let’s see. Duck Duck Goose, and Freeze Tag. I also loved water balloon fights and running through sprinklers.

MH: Ha!!... My mom used to chase me with the hose on a hot day. So much fun! Do you have a favorite superhero?

JP: Not really. I don’t watch TV, so I couldn’t really tell you. I did watch Fraggle Rock when I was little, and the Trash Heap always terrified me.

MH: Are you serious? It scared me too.

JP: Yep. Scary... but I liked the dog on Fraggle Rock best.

MH: What is your favorite thing to wear?

JP: Sweatshirts! Definitely sweatshirts. It’s what I live in. And sweaters. And at the moment this belt (points to shiny red belt she’s wearing) is my favorite. I just got it and I wear it with everything.

MH: I know you’ve only been here for about two weeks, but what’s the best food you’ve had at Commons?

JP: Hmm... there was something I ate the other day that I loved. Maybe it was the macaroni and cheese. I also like mashed sweet potatoes, and those colored tortillas. But overall I really don’t like the food there.

MH: What’s the most obnoxious thing you’ve discovered about school so far?far? 

JP: Ants live in my room. They’ve taken over. They are everywhere. They were all over my bed and I was up all night trying to just clear a space where they wouldn’t get in. Ugh. I had no idea about the ants.

MH: Ah yes, the ants. They decided to take up residence in my room as well last year. Well, when you’re not in your room, what kinds of activities have you been doing?

JP: I joined club field hockey. We just had our first practice and I really liked it. There’s also a youth group at the Methodist church that I’m involved with. I signed up for a ton of stuff at the Activities Fair and now I can’t remember half of it (laughs). I really want to do some community service as well. Oh, and I’m on F-Crew too.

MH: Sounds like you’re diving right in. Cool. I take it you’re not an early riser, but what is one thing that would get you out of bed before 8 AM?

JP: Whoa. (thinks for a bit). Um, if someone said “You can have a puppy if you get up early,” I’d do it. I love puppies! Or if I had a chance to travel somewhere, I’d get up.

MH: Have you been many places already?

JP: Well, I’ve been to every country in Western Europe...

MH: WOW.

JP: And I’ve also been to Iceland and Hungary. I studied for three months in Scotland.

MH: That is so amazing. I have always wanted to see Iceland - what is it like?

JP: Actually, it’s unbelievable. I would stand and look on one side, and there were these big mountains, and then on my other side there was nothing but volcanic rock. It was beautiful.

MH: Sounds breathtaking. So have you decided on a major or do you have something in particular you like to study?

JP: I have no idea. I know that I don’t want to be a doctor or journalist. I do love languages. That’s another thing that would get me up in the morning - the opportunity to just speak another language for a while.

MH: Hey, me too. After living in France for three years, I really miss speaking the language on a consistent basis - I mean, not in an academic setting, just in normal conversation. So, as you’re coming to college, what kinds of things are you holding on to that are important to you? Sort of like priorities or values you want to uphold?

JP: I’d say educating myself, traveling, making as many new and good friends as possible, experiencing everything, and being happy. Not necessarily in that order! (smiles)

MH: If you had to pick between a toothbrush and a hairbrush, which would you choose?

JP: Oh gosh, a toothbrush! I never have to brush my hair. It’s so straight (laughs). Seriously, I don’t need a hairbrush, so it would definitely be a toothbrush.

MH: Do you have any siblings?

JP: One younger sister - she’s 16. People always thought we were twins... then I cut my hair (smiles).

MH: What’s the dumbest thing you’ve ever done?

JP: Hmm. That’s hard because I know I’ve done really stupid stuff but I can never remember it. Oh, there’s one thing that probably won’t seem embarrassing to anyone else, but I felt really dumb. My family and I were at a hotel, and they got in an elevator. I had to run back to the room to get something, and the door to the elevator started closing. I thought they were the only people in there, so I yelled in this really awful voice for them to wait for me. When I got to the elevator, they were all standing and looking at the floor. I didn’t know until then that the elevator was actually packed with people and they had all heard me!

MH: Oops.

JP: (laughs) Yeah.

MH: Who is the most influential person in your life?

JP: Both of my parents, and my cousin. Also my really good friends. Because if you see something you like in a friend, you try to copy it.

MH: If you could do anything without failing, what would it be?

JP: I would definitely play lacrosse, speak Spanish, sing, and learn to fly. Oh, and I would love to do glass blowing. It’s so beautiful. I would love to learn how to do that.

MH: Describe a contradiction about yourself.

JP: (thinks for a while). Hmm. Well, here’s one. I love meeting new people, but I’m never the one to start a conversation. I’m usually the one sitting and listening. But I just like people, and I like to meet everyone.

MH: What makes you laugh?

JP: (smiles) People’s expressions. My favorite thing is people-watching. There are so many funny things to see.

MH: That is certainly true. My one complaint about Davidson is that there is no place to sit and watch without being seen. It ruins it because everyone knows who you are! Well, Jessica, I think those are all the questions I’ve got for you.

JP: Okay.

MH: Thanks again for doing the interview! It’s been fun getting to know you a little bit. I wish you all the best here at Davidson in your classes and daily life. I’m sure I’ll see you at Commons sometime!

JP: (smiles) Thanks. See you around!