THE Davidsonian

Soccer teams confident of success

By RICHARD CONNOLLY and BRAD BRIDGES
Staff Writers

One good turn deserves another. In the truest sense, the women’s soccer team hopes to embody this slogan in its
2001 campaign. Coming off a strong season characterized by record-setting performances by not only the team but also several individuals,
this year’s squad is looking to improve upon last season’s success. The team expects to earn Coach Kevin Hundley his
100th career victory and is in position to make a run for the Southern Conference title—claiming Davidson’s first-ever bid to
the NCAA Tournament in women’s soccer.

“We don’t just want to get to the tournament. We want to get there and compete and prove that we
can play at that level,” Coach Hundley said.

On Friday night, however, the Wildcats experienced a setback in attaining such lofty goals as they dropped their season opener
to the 17th-ranked Duke Blue Devils 3-0.

“We went into a challenging environment against a nationally ranked opponent who we have had limited success against in the
past,” Coach Hundley commented, “but we did feel optimistic that we could be competitive.”

Freshman goalkeeper Sarah Hobart impressed many as she recorded seven saves despite the loss, as the Wildcats were outshot 17-2
by the Blue Devils.

“Sarah proved that she belongs playing at that level and that she is capable of keeping us in the game,”
remarked Coach Hundley.

Several freshmen made the start for this game; the team as a whole “showed great energy in the first 25
minutes, but eventually fatigued because of the hot night,” Coach Hundley noted.

The Wildcats compete in the Naval Academy Invitational this weekend in Annapolis, Md. The team plays Navy on Friday, Sept.
7, and then Columbia University on Sunday, Sept. 9.

As the 2001 soccer season begins, the Wildcat men are asserting their ability.

“We gained the confidence that we can step onto the field with anybody in the country,” said returning all-conference senior
Chris Norbet.

With eight returning seniors and an arsenal of young talent, this year’s team is likely to overwhelm its opponents. This
past weekend, the ‘Cats took the first step toward their goal of an NCAA tournament bid by winning the Holiday
Inn Centre City Classic in Peoria, Illinois.

The Wildcats started the tournament strong, defeating Drury College 3-1. Chris Norbet led the attack with two goals and an
assist late in the game on a “give and go” to Justin Saunders. Junior midfielder Joel Sadler tallied two assists
in the game as well.

Saturday night, the ‘Cats fell to Bradley University 1-0, but still gained the tournament title. Though each team in the
Classic had a 1-1 record, Davidson was declared tournament champion with a goal differential of +1. Junior keeper Soren Johnson
received the tournament MVP award for his exceptional play in front of the goal. Seniors Derek Kilburn, Erik Ozimek, and
Chris Norbet also earned all-tournament team honors.Honors. “We have a skillful, energetic group of newcomers, and a group of veterans
who are playing more inspired and hungrier than ever before,” said midfielder Ozimek. “The Davidson men’s soccer team will be
an exciting, fun team to watch this year.” Davidson’s “hungry” ‘Cats play at UNCG Thursday and take on Army at
Richardson Field Sunday at 1:00.

Davidson overcame a scoring drought in the second quarter to grab a 34-30 halftime lead. The ‘Cats gradually began to
pull away in the third quarter, leading 56-43, and holding on for the 74-57 final. Pearson again led the Wildcats
in scoring with 19 points and 8 rebounds. Erege was the only other Davidson player in double figures with 12
points and 7 rebounds.

In the final game of the trip, the Wildcats suffered their only defeat of the tour, 83-71 at the hands
of Benetton-Treviso. Benetton was led by their point guard, former UCLA Bruin and Sacramento King Tyus Edney. Benetton is also
famous for being the team that the Atlanta Hawks’ Toni Kukoc played for before joining the NBA. The game was
close throughout, with neither team leading by more than 7 points in the first half, when Benetton led 26-19. The
Wildcats then went on a 12-0 run to gain a five-point advantage. Benetton finished the half strong, and the game
was tied 35-35 at the half. Benetton slowly gained control of the game, but led only 56-52 with two minutes
to go in the third quarter. But Benetton hit a pair of quick threes to start a 12-4 run to
close the quarter ahead 68-56. Erege once again netted 20 points to go along with 9 rebounds. Pearson added another
impressive double-double, with 13 points and 13 rebounds. Ides had his most productive game of the trip, scoring 12 points.
Also in double figures was Anderer with 12 points.

Pearson feels that the two-week tour was a great first step for this year’s team. “The way we played on
the trip shows us that we can play with anyone on our schedule. We just have to use the momentum
we gained this summer and carry it over to our workouts this fall and into the beginning of practice in
October.”

BEN & JERRY'S VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

Treat your college kids or campus chums with ice cream or frozen yogurt for birthday or graduation celebrations, study breaks,
exam time, or just for fun! We're here to help. Call x2451 for an appointment.

The Village Store is proud to present sterling silver jewelry by Kit Heath. We offer a large selection of bracelets,
earrings, rings, and necklaces in styles that range from bold to delicate. Many pieces feature vibrant, semi-precious stones. Reasonably priced—great
for yourself or a loved one! The Village Store, 110 South Main Street, 704/892-4440. In the Heart of Historic Downtown
Davidson: Fine Gifts and Accessories Since 1966.
