THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, February 21, 2001

Wes Self no-hitter opens 2001 Wildcat baseball season

Senior pitcher stymies High Point as Davidson wins first game of the season

By Hinps Howard
Staff Writer

On opening day, you want a win. You look for a decent outing from the starter, and hopefully some offensive output. Nothing flashy, just a win to get things rolling. A plain old opening day win wasn’t good enough for senior pitcher Wes Self and the Wildcats baseball team. The co-captain pitched Davidson’s first no-hitter in 15 years and first ever on opening day in a 4-0 win over High Point. Self (1-0) never faced more than four batters in an inning, striking out 11 and walking three. Using a crisp fastball with a sharp curveball and slider, Self hit all his spots and kept the Panthers guessing from the start. It took him only five pitches to get through the first inning and he coasted from there, allowing only five runners to reach base.

“It’s one of those things you can’t explain,” Self said afterward. “You always think it’s possible, but you’re never really sure what to do when it happens.”

Head coach Dick Cooke was pleased with the chemistry of Self and junior catcher Billy Ryan, but his main concern the entire game was Self’s pitch count. “It’s always a concern from a managing standpoint on opening day to make sure the pitchers don’t throw their arms out,” he said. Cooke and the bullpen kept a close eye on Self’s pitch count as the game progressed. Cooke said he was comfortable with Self throwing 100 pitches because he had done so the previous week in an intra-squad scrimmage. He was hoping for seven or eight innings, in order to keep the bullpen rested.

Self honored by Collegiate Baseball

Davidson senior pitcher Wes Self was selected by Collegiate Baseball today as a Louisville Slugger National Player of the Week for the week ending February 18. He earned the honor by twirling a nine-inning, complete-game no-hitter on opening day for the Wildcats against High Point, highlighting a 4-0 Davidson victory. The only other recorded no-hitter in Wildcat history occurred on March 22, 1986, when Steve Condon performed the feat against Furman. However, his gem was in a seven-inning contest, making Self’s the only known nine-inning no-hit game for Davidson.

Self is also an excellent student, as he carries a 3.892 grade point average while majoring in Pre-Med/Biology. Last year, he was selected for the Verizon Academic All-America second team when he posted a 7-3 record and a sparkling 2.97 ERA. Self is the third Davidson player to receive the honor. Four years ago, Gus Quattlebaum earned it when he hit four homers and had 10 RBI in one game. In 1993, Tim Kerns collected the honor after hitting eight homers and driving in 22 runs in a five-game stretch.

Two other players also earned player-of-the-week honors — Kirk Saarloos of Cal. State-Fullerton and Brian Stavisky of Notre Dame. Saarloos allowed just one base runner (a two-out single in the eighth) in a 5-0, complete-game win over Brigham Young. Stavisky collected nine hits in his first 13 trips to the plate of the 2001 season, with two doubles and two triples for the Fighting Irish.

— Rick Bender, Davidson SIDSeven innings, Self had thrown exactly 100 pitches and at that point, Cooke asked him how he felt, knowing what the answer would be: that he felt fine. So Cooke said he decided to leave him in. “His pitches were still live and (High Point) wasn’t putting any better swings on them in the seventh than they were early on.” Cooke said he would have taken him out if High Point got even one hit, but on this day, that wasn’t going to happen. “He ended up with 123 pitches. Given the circumstances and his physical conditioning, I don’t think that was excessive,” Cooke said.

The Panthers (2-5) probably thought it was. They didn’t play a bad game defensively, yet still lost their fifth game of the season. Offensively, Davidson got right to it in the first inning. After leadoff man Ryan Stroker grounded to third, second baseman Jack Purcell pulled a 2-2 pitch into right centerfield and legged out a triple. After Tim Frend walked, James Marino drove Purcell in with a groundball fielder’s choice to the second baseman, putting Davidson up 1-0. Good situational hitting produced another run on a fielder’s choice in the third and two more in the sixth on a sacrifice fly by Jeremiah Parvin and a single by Stroker to right field. Davidson didn’t have any home runs or big innings, but manufactured enough runs for the win. “We did a pretty good job of waiting to get a pitch we could work with,” Cooke said. “For the first time all season to be hitting smart like that and pitching so well is a comforting thought. Execution of the ‘short game’ got the job done.”

Self’s near-perfect outing surprised even him. His teammates gave him the silent treatment from the fifth inning on. He and everyone else at the ballpark were aware of the possibility, especially an opposing fan who constantly cheered for someone to “break up the no-hitter!” No one was able to and Self has added his name to the record books and helped his team to a victory. No one is more pleased with the team effort than the four-year ace. “It was a tremendous effort for the team,” he said. “We’ve been working pretty hard and this is a great reward.”

More coverage of Wildcat baseball’s 4-0 start inside...
- Hinds Howard profiles star hurler Wes Self
- Results of the Mt. St. Mary’s series

Davidsonian Player of the Week: Wes Self
The senior pitcher opened the season with the first no-hitter at Davidson in 15 years last Thursday against High Point. Self struck out 11 batters while walking only three in the 4-0 victory.

Men's BASKETBALL
Feb. 24 College of Charleston 2 p.m. (ESPN 2)

Men's TENNIS
Feb. 24 James Madison 11 a.m.

Women's TENNIS
Feb. 23 Presbyterian 3 p.m.

Women's BASKETBALL
Feb. 24 @Georgia Southern 7 p.m.

LACROSSE
Feb. 25 North Carolina 1 p.m.

BASEBALL
Feb. 22 @High Point 3 p.m.
Feb. 25 Furman (2 games) noon
Feb. 26 Furman 3 p.m.
Feb. 27 @North Carolina 3 p.m.