COMEBACK, from page 7

With Charleston in a tailspin, Davidson — blitzed with two minutes remaining. Ides flicked a shot over Lumpkin’s outstretched arms
to bring the Wildcats within two again. Emeka Erege stripped Leighton Bowie, setting up the go-ahead three-point basket by Eho.
Davidson took a precarious one-point lead, 64-63, and Charleston panicked. Bolton missed a three and Bowie fouled Eho, who promptly
netted two more points from the line and pushed Davidson’s lead to three with 40 seconds to play.

The Cougars returned after a timeout only to pull the same chaotic stunt—miss a long three then commit a foul.
This time it was Michael Bree, who went to the line and increased Davidson’s lead to four. The Cougars scrambled
to get a shot off. A Jeff Bolton three-point attempt careened off the rim, but Troy Wheless grabbed the offensive
rebound and gave Bolton another chance. It wasn’t meant to be. Ides rebounded Bolton’s second attempt and drew an unintentional
foul from freshman guard Quint Hollis.

As the disheartened Cougars trudged to the opposite end of the floor and readied for another Wildcat free throw exhibition,
Ides and Bernard erupted into a chest-bumping, fist-pumping celebration underneath the Cougars’ basket. Ides made the first free throw, uncoiling
his long arm out in front of him and pointing at the floor to punctuate the ball dropping through the
net. It was the Wildcats’ 68th and final point, the capstone of an unrelenting comeback attack. Ides’ second attempt just
had too much zip. But who could blame him?

Ides finished the night with 13 points, third in scoring behind Eho’s career-high 17 and Wayne Bernard’s 19. That Ides
didn’t commit his fifth and final foul out is a testament to how carefully and intelligently the Wildcats played those
last four minutes. The energy and skill of Eho and Bernard accounted for 13 of the Wildcats’ last 17 points,
a dominating run that Davidson will try to pick up against Wofford at noon on Thursday in Greenville, SC.

“Our players have taken some serious steps forward in these last 10 days that have given us some momentum as
we go into the tournament,” said McKillop. “And a week ago, that’s something that we weren’t sure we were going
to have.”

THE COMPETITION

An unpredictable season has left the conference tournament without an obvious favorite. When the first-place team starts worrying about being
in a dogfight, it’s time to admit just how competitive—and unpredictable—Southern Conference basketball has been this season.

“It’s going to be a dogfight for seeding down the stretch,” said College of Charleston head coach John Kresse during
a recent teleconference. “When the conference tournament begins, who knows who’s going to win?”

Kresse’s Cougars lead the South Division with a 10-3 record, and despite a few late-season hiccups, the Cougars remain firmly
in command of the South. But if the entrenched first-place team doesn’t feel safe, should anyone?

In the North, perennial championship contenders Davidson and Appalachian State are fighting to finish third this year while ETSU and
UNC Greensboro spar for first place. The Bucs and the Spartans have been on the rise for the last three
seasons, but rebuilding at Davidson and App State has significantly boosted the teams’ ascent through the North Division ranks.

Though not as dominant as they once were, the Cougars of College of Charleston again have controlled the South Division,
although two February losses—one at ETSU and another at The Citadel—have slowed the Cougars’ march.

“I think people are finally realizing that teams like College of Charleston can be beat,” Georgia Southern head coach Jeff
Price said. “The lower teams can beat the higher teams. I think this can make for an interesting tournament.”

A tumultuous two weeks for the Cougars handed them a 14-point loss at ETSU, which inspired a 67-31 thrashing of
Furman four days later only to have it overshadowed by the 62-58 loss to cross-town rival The Citadel, which has
found new life in the closing weeks of the regular season. Last place Wofford scored over a hundred points en
route to a 105-69 victory over Chattanooga, which stands locked in a three-way tie for second place in the South.
As teams come together at the close of the season and position themselves forthe tournament, one would expect the leading
teams to begin distancing themselves from third and fourth place contenders. But in the wacky Southern Conference, where this season’s
talent is spread broadly across the entire conference instead of being isolated within just a handful of teams, no one
is taking anything for granted this year. “When I got here, there were games you could count on winning,” said
Chattanooga head coach Henry Dickerson, “But now you can’t count on anything.” Except some dogfights.

Burgin Hardin

FIRST ROUND FOE

Davidson will play Wofford Thursday at noon at the Bi-Lo Center in Greenville, S.C., in the first round of the
Southern Conference Championship. The winner will face College of Charleston Friday afternoon.

Wofford (12-15, 7-9 SoCon). The Terriers ended Davidson’s season in the first round of the tournament last year by the
score of 65-64 when Ian Chadwick hit a jumper with 2.8 seconds left. The team has struggled much of this
season and currently sits in last place in the South Division. Don’t be fooled though; Wofford slammed Chattanooga 105-69 on
Feb. 13.

Strength: Hot-shooting backcourt of Chadwick and Nixon

Against Davidson: 83-73 win on Feb. 5. No one has tormented the Cats like Chadwick, who also scored 27 points
in Wofford’s 83-73 win on Feb. 5. But the real surprise of that game was sophomore Lee Nixon. He entered
the game averaging seven points, but on this night dropped in 31 points on 11-for-16 shooting. Chadwick and Nixon scored
a combined 58 points, nearly 70 percent of Wofford’s total.

Charting the last four

College of Charleston coach said the Wildcats were the worst thing to the city since Hurricane Hugo. Saturday’s rematch was
in a different location, but it ended with the same result: a thrilling Davidson victory at Belk Arena, this time
by the score of 68-65. As I watched the game, I couldn’t help but think how much Charleston must really
despise us. In their conference debut two years ago, the Cougars came to Belk Arena undefeated and underestimating Davidson. We
ended up losing that year by four points as the result of a miraculous Charleston run. The Cougars gained momentum
and went on to sweep the conference on their way to the NCAA tournament. It filled them with confidence in
their capabilities.

For those 40 minutes, more than 1,000 classmates and I truly believed that we influenced the course of events on
the court. We rimmed out those Charleston free throws with our whoops and hollers. We forced turnovers with our exuberant
chants. We lost the game, but the support we provided may have kept us in it.

Fast-forward to Saturday. Even after an impressive win over The Citadel on Monday, no one really expected Davidson to outplay
one of the best mid-major programs on the East Coast. It would be deemed an upset if we were to
walk away with the win. It appeared for a while that the Wildcats were “dead and buried,” as McKillop would
say later. Down 10 with under five minutes to play, Davidson went on a furious rally to stun Charleston and
score its best victory of the season.

In recent months, the buzz around campus has been critical of the ‘Cats performance. Why can’t we ‘finish’ games when
we are so close to winning? I suspect that if someone knew the answer to this question, our record would
have been much better and attendance would have been considerably higher. The team has struggled. The coaches have struggled. The
fans have struggled too. But oftentimes, success is found in overcoming adversity.

Former Davidson basketball coach Bobby Hussey said once, “Anytime you lose more than you win, everything is magnified.” The ‘Cats
have done well not to be burnt alive by the power of that magnifying glass this season. Saturday’s upset of
the College of Charleston by our beloved ‘Cats capped off a season full of more highs and lows than the
temperature in recent weeks. The coaches and players can only hope the win will be the impetus in the progress
of Davidson basketball over the course of the next week.

Every coach will tell you that it all comes down to tournament time. The regular season is long forgotten once
tournament play begins. The championship banner becomes every team’s sight at the Bi-Lo Center in Greenville, S.C. Remember the look
on Jody Lumpkin’s face when Davidson had beaten him.
