“From page V5 changes. After reviewing the college’s constitution, the SGA bylaws, and community expectations, the Board determined that it
is primarily “an organization that has been charged with the programming life of the college.” “In my mind, the product
is our first priority,” asserted Parker. “And I think that product — our programming — is first rate.”

Former Board President Kirk Willingham ’01 and Vice Presidents Eric Arnold ’01 and Parker then began discussing ways in which
they might alter the committee structure. “It was basically [a process of] looking at committees and tweaking them,” noted Willingham.
Consequently, the Policy Committee, the body charged with regulating Board structure, went to work on some adjustments. In just two
weeks, they made some of the most significant changes in the Board’s history.

For instance, Parker recalled that the “Cultural Events Committee, the Literary Arts Committee, and the Outpost all overlapped in some
way.” They hosted speakers, poetry readings, student performers, and the like. The Board decided to merge the three into a
single committee and call it the Coffeehouse Committee. In this way, they hope to be able to better coordinate their
programming and to offer the best options to students. Any other functions not directly related to programming will fall to
organizations or clubs outside the Union Board.

Similarly, the Board felt that the biggest share of responsibility for the Campus Forums and Women’s Issues Committees should pass
to the SGA and the Gender Resource Center, respectively. Hence, they dissolved both committees. The Board has begun discussions with
the SGA about Campus Forums and will formally address the status of the Women’s Issues Committee later this spring.

The Board also acknowledges as a part of its purpose a responsibility to be a “resource” to other groups on
campus. Parker elaborated on this aspect of their mission. “We want people to know about the resources available to them
through the Union,” he remarked. For instance, Parker believes that student organizations in their own planning could benefit from the
Board’s expertise in securing funds, working with agents, or negotiating and signing contracts. As another example, Parker suggested that the
Publicity chair hold a publicity workshop for students. This would help leaders know how to do such tasks as writing
and distributing press releases.

This reassertion of the Board’s mission and purpose corresponds to a change in some of its methods. In particular, Board
members themselves want to redefine the way they plan and organize events. “In the past, programming was done mostly by
committee chairs,” recalled Parker. This meant that each Board member had to spend the majority of his or her time
managing all the minutiae of their events. Under the new system, the Board committee chairs will concentrate on planning and
recruiting. The rest of the work will devolve to an appointed “support group,” which will take care of all of
the detail work.

Willingham feels that the smaller Board will help this change along. “Any time you have a leaner, meaner organization, there’s
a greater sense of ownership,” he remarked. Likewise, the Board hopes to eliminate the useless distinction between “co-curricular” and “social”
activities. Under the old scheme, committees fell under one of the two categories. The two Board Vice Presidents were also
identified as either co-curricular or social. In practice, though, “the distinction between...co-curricular and social is blurred,” noted Parker. “We hope
to formally end it,” he added. “Freshman activities,” such as the Activities Fair during orientation and F-Crew, recruiting more freshmen
to be involved with all outstanding events. Instead, one Vice President will focus on these activities. That Vice President will
also be responsible for the Union Board. The other Vice President will be “more of an administrator,” according to Parker.
That student’s job will include managing recognition within the Board for successful programming and organizing any important forums not covered
by the SGA. One other personnel change will be the addition of an Ambassador. The Board envisions that position reaching
out to other organizations on campus. He or she will be responsible for cultivating better relationships with other groups, both
to encourage feedback from students to the Union Board and to help students understand how the Board operates.

The Board will also move into its new home in the Knobloch Campus Center sometime this semester. Although the change
in venue will not affect their mission, Parker did note that the student center will offer some appealing new programming
possibilities. For instance, the fact that the new 900 Room will be directly adjacent to the late-night café will solve
one problem that had vexed the Board for some time. Previous Films committees had encountered difficulties attracting students to their
evening showings. In the future, they anticipate that students who are already eating and socializing in the café will take
advantage of the convenient programming next door.

Another area that the Board hopes to work on is that of “big ticket” concerts. According to Parker, student and
faculty surveys consistently show that the campus wants and needs more large-scale concerts. Unfortunately, the Board often finds itself unable
to land large, well-known groups for several reasons. In particular, bigger venues in Charlotte or elsewhere can generally outbid Davidson
for contracts, sometimes by tens of thousands of dollars. Also, the Board only has very limited access to the Belk
Arena. “Sometimes we’ll only be able to get two slots in Belk a semester, and then we’re supposed to plan
a big concert,” complained Parker. “The music industry doesn’t work like that.” The Board, however, hopes to remedy that either
through corporate sponsorship or by establishing a relationship with a promoter in Charlotte.

With its slimmer, sleeker look and a new crop of members, the Union Board has high hopes for the coming
year. “I feel great about the people we’ve appointed,” Parker admitted. “They’re the best.” Though the Policy Committee and the
Board made the changes over the space of a few short weeks, their outcome is expected to be significant. Parker
agreed, calling the changes “monumental.” “The Union Board has been a central organization on campus for years,” he mused. “This
change is dramatic.”

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE - VEGETABLE SOUP
Fresh Squeezed Orange Juice
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE, AND LIMEADE
"Bet you didn't think of us for this kind of fare!" exclaimed Willingham. “I’m looking forward to seeing the results.”
Since 1951, best.

Eat-in or Take-out
896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8
Fri 8-9
MAIN ST. DAVIDSON
