@ ALENDA LU

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2001

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 17

Students anticipate lottery night

By Matt GARFIELD
Sports Editor

Rob Gould ‘04 knew it was bad when his hall mates began asking on Monday if he knew about his
lottery number.

“Did you see it?” they asked, trying not to laugh. “You’ve got the last number in the whole school.”

Sure enough, when the Residence Life Office released the lottery numbers that will determine the order in which rooms are
assigned for next year, Gould’s name was at the bottom of the list. Number 1498. Dead last.

RLO director Kurt Holmes has a message for Gould and other students with low lottery numbers: The system works.

For more than a decade, his office has used a randomly calculated lottery system to assign rooms. The numbers are
released in mid-February, and two months later, on “Lottery Night,” students wait in line for up to several hours, waiting
to choose an available dorm.

This year, students across campus—especially those with low numbers who will have to stand in line while hundreds before them
make their decisions—are wondering if there’s a better way to do it.

Increased technology has enabled us to register for classes, check our grades, and vote, all from our own computers, some
say. Why can’t we choose our rooms the same way?

At Furman University in Greenville, S.C., students don’t choose their rooms online or participate in “Lottery Night.”

For the past three years, the school has used a points system based on seniority to assign housing. Seniors receive
the most points and freshmen the fewest, said Elaine Cross, secretary of University Housing. Students submit their top eight room
choices and are assigned a room based on their points total.

“Our room selection process (used to be) so difficult,” Cross said. “Now, we’ve got it down pat.”

But Davidson, says Holmes, promotes itself as a close-knit, communal environment. While its system is “hugely labor intensive,” it reflects
the school’s desire to foster interaction among its populace.

“We want students to be able to choose their rooms,” said Holmes. “With everybody showing up... You can get a
visual of what’s going on. It’s more hands-on. It makes an event out of it.”

The event that Holmes refers to, Lottery Night, will take place on April 17.

Union Board slims down

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

In a change described as “monumental” and “dramatic,” the Union Board has reorganized itself in line with its new, streamlined
mission.

After reviewing and reaffirming its mission and purpose, the Union Board decided to eliminate or to combine several old committees.
The Board also hopes to eliminate some of the outdated distinctions between “co-curricular” and “social” responsibilities.

The end result is a Union Board composed of twelve instead of twenty-one members (see chart page 4). In particular,
such formerly well-known committees as Campus Forums and Women’s Issues have disappeared altogether as Union Board committees. Some, such as
the Intimate Performances, Cultural Events, or Literary Arts Committees, have been absorbed by others.

The Board jettisoned long-time affiliate Davidson Outdoors as well. It will now become an independent organization on campus.

The Board intends for these changes to help it better fulfill its roles as programmer and enabler of events and
activities on campus.

“We want to be focused on our mission, which is to program for all students,” said Union Board President Will
Parker ’02.

Parker explained the process behind the changes.

President Bobby Vagt enjoys a ride across campus on one of the brand new red bikes.

Juniors begin college search at Davidson

By JESSICA MERING
News Editor

More than two hundred high school juniors converged at Davidson on Monday for their first taste of the college. Along
with their parents, who brought the total to almost five hundred guests, the juniors began their college search with a
day at Davidson.

The day began with tours of the campus. From 8:45-10, tours left Chambers every few minutes. More than thirty student
tour guides led groups.

“We never could have accommodated 500 students and their parents without help from all the willing tour guides,” said Shannon
Bishop ’03, student tour guide coordinator. Admission Counselor John Bell agreed with her and stressed that the program would not
have been possible without the numerous faculty and student volunteers.

President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Dr. Nancy Cable then presented “A Davidson Welcome” in Love
Auditorium.

After the address, parents and students separated for different sessions.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

1 News

2 Briefly

8 Perspectives

10 Arts & Living

13 Sports

Fuzzy Math

Several Davidson mathematics majors recently participated in an international competition. They were asked to make a new evacuation plan for
South Carolina’s coastal residents in the event of a hurricane. The event was sponsored by the Consortium for Mathematics and
its Applications.

NEWS page 2

Bush beefs up military

George W. Bush is once again proving himself a proactive, reforming force in the national government. This week Bush’s administration
unveiled bold new plans to invigorate and modernize the military.

PERSPECTIVES page 8

Did she just say that?

Bill Neville ‘03 directed Davidson’s production of the Vagina Monologues. He and the rest of the cast worked to bring
the message of V-Day to campus.

Arts & Living page 10

Delilahs’ CD

After months of hard work, Davidson’s own female a cappella group will release its first CD on Monday, February 26.

Arts & Living page 11
