_ Thursday, JANUARY 25, 2001

Youthful squad gives Oddo first championship at W&L

By ALAN ROE
Staff Writer

Eight out of the 10 Davidson wrestlers who competed in last weekend’s Washington and Lee Invitational placed, giving the Wildcats
their first tournament championship of coach Tom Oddo’s 16-year tenure. The Wildcats finished first out of eight teams competing and
17.5 points ahead of runner-up Pensacola Christian.

“This is my favorite tournament of the year,” said Oddo. “We do not have any standouts on the team this
year, rather we have an even-keeled squad with the ability to work together. We won this tournament in the first
round. Our goal was to gather the most points through pins and major decisions to put us far enough in
the lead. That’s what happened.”

Like much of the Wildcats’ recent success, this tournament was won by consistency throughout the starting lineup. While every wrestler
contributed to the victory by scoring points at some point in the tournament, the squad had eight place winners. Freshmen
Adam Sperling and Shawn Reynolds took fourth place in the 165 and Heavyweight weight classes. Senior Anthony Albert also took
fourth place despite just returning from a shoulder injury.

Five Davidson wrestlers made it to the finals. Senior Dan Carmen took 2nd place in the 125-pound weight class. In
the 157-pound class, Jr. Jeff Bender also took 2nd place. Junior Jeff Libersat, who was recently named Southern Conference Wrestler
of the Week, lost a nail-biting 8-7 decision to Wesley Koteski of Washington and Jefferson in the finals of the
184-pound division. Freshmen Mark O’Hair and Brian Werstler made it to the finals in the 165 and 174-pound divisions respectively.
While Werstler, like Libersat, also lost in the finals round by one point, O’Hair captured the Wildcats’ only individual title
by defeating Hayden Call of Southern Virginia 9-6.

The success of the freshmen in this tournament is reflective of their contributions to the squad throughout the season. Retention
of incoming freshmen has been a difficulty for the Davidson program over the past two seasons, but this year, seven
of the eight freshmen who began the 2000-2001 campaign have stuck with it.

“In previous years you might have looked forward to going up against a freshman during practice, but this year’s group
brings an intensity to the practice room that is uncharacteristic of most freshmen classes. These guys challenge the rest of
the team on a daily basis in the practice room,” junior Jeff Bender said.

Coach Tom Oddo shares similar enthusiasm for the performances of the freshmen class and is excited about the experience they
will gain for the future. With only two seniors, the squad is undoubtedly inexperienced. But it has already surpassed last
season’s victory total of three by posting five victories to date. After losing their first two matches, the Wildcats have
won five of the last six. Team members say it is all a matter of balance. While the Wildcats do
not have the individual star in Ian Kaplan that they have had for the previous four years, they are putting
nine starters on the mat that they feel are capable of putting up points—as they did in the W&L.Invitational. Oddo
says this could be the most complete team he’s had at Davidson. With the continuing leadership of upperclassmen, Anthony Albert’s
return to the mat, and the younger wrestlers gaining experience, the team will only improve for the remainder of this
season. This Saturday, the Wildcats take on Howard and UNC Pembroke at 1 p.m. at Baker Sports Complex.

By JENN Hiccins

Congratulations, Coach McKillop

A 68-60 victory over VMI marked Bob McKillop’s 177th Davidson win, making him the winningest coach in Davidson history.

Staff Writer

After more than eleven seasons, Coach McKillop has become the winningest coach in Davidson history. Many coaches don’t stay around
long enough to come close to breaking Lefty’s record. Davidson College has indeed been fortunate to keep Coach for their
own for this many years. Whenever the Division I coaching carousel starts to spin, Bob McKillop’s name moves to the
top of the list. ESPN sports writer Andy Katz wrote during the 1998 NCAA Tournament that McKillop was one of
the most sought-after coaches in all of Division I basketball.

The statistics aren’t important. It is the story behind the numbers that means so much more. It is what people
would rather read. It is what people ought to know that care anything about Davidson basketball. You can appreciate Coach
McKillop’s all-time conference record or that he has coached eight consecutive overtime wins or that he is currently one of
31 D1 coaches chosen by the NABC to serve on the ESPN/USA Today Board of Coaches. The truth of the
matter is that he has developed a top-notch program at the mid-major level and maintained it. And he has put
Davidson basketball back on the map.

But what you should appreciate more than anything is his perspective. You should appreciate what he does for the game
of basketball. In any game, he works as hard in the first minute as he does in the last, no
matter what the score. He demands the very same from his players. He is an example to opposing coaches, remaining
composed yet surprisingly vocal while he works the sideline. And in the post-game talk, he would surely rather praise one
of his standout players than criticize the game officials or discuss breaking Lefty Driesell’s record. He knows what the job
is about and he lives it every day.

Take his letter to former Western Carolina head coach Phil Hopkins. An unnecessary gesture in what Ken Garfield calls a
“bottom-line profession where one man wins and the other sometimes gets fired.” McKillop hoped his sympathetic words would fall on
open ears and spark Hopkins’ discouraging season. It did more than that. It led to Davidson’s demise in the first
round of the 1999 SoCon tournament, courtesy of Hopkins’ Catamounts. Coach figured as much, but he sent it anyway. Because
‘to play the game is great, to win the game is even greater, but to love the game is the
greatest of all.’ And besides, the best coaches realize that some things are just more important.

Davidsonian Player of the Week

Janna Magette

The junior guard scored a game-high 18 points in a 78-62 loss to Georgia Southern on Jan. 22.

THE WEEK AHEAD

WRESTLING
Jan. 27 Howard 1:00
UNC Pembroke

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Jan. 27 @ ETSU 3:00
Jan. 30 College of Charleston 7:00

SWIMMING
Jan. 27 College of Charleston 1:00

Men’s BASKETBALL
Jan. 27 UNC Greensboro 7:00
Jan. 30 @ VMI 7:30
