the Conservative Alliance.
“All our organization wants
is another trial that’s above
board,” she said. The small
demonstration passed with
much cordiality and without
incident, except a very small
group of counter-protestors
holding signs saying “Mumia
Take A Seat.”

Flynn spoke to a packed
Union Home Room, enumer-
ating fact after fact in his at-
tempt to convince even Abu-
Jamal’s staunchest support-
ers of his guilt. However, his
attention to detail did noth-
ing to mask his contempt for
both Mumia Abu-Jamal and
his supporters, whom he de-
risively termed Mumiacs.
Throughout his lecture, Flynn
betrayed his bias against the
urban population of America,
referring to “those people
who are out on the street at 4 o’clock” and
dismissing the idea that a man of Abu-Jamal’s
education and background could be an ac-
complished journalist.

Through the talk, listeners remained quiet,
respectful of Flynn, and listened attentively
for the most part. During the question and
answer session that followed, however, ten-
sions seemed to flare. Dixon questioned
many of Flynn’s assumptions about other
witnesses in the case, whom he dismissed
because they happened to be alcoholic pros-
titutes. Others also questioned Flynn’s con-
descending tone to those who support Abu-
Jamal.

One comment in particular drew clapping
and cheering from most of the audience: “To
claim that it is ridiculous to suggest that
Mumia received a completely fair trial or that
there hasn’t been a pattern of mistreatment
and conspiracy against blacks not only in the
last 20 years but over the course of history is
frankly obnoxious.”

Others employed the new rhetoric tech-
nique minted by Al Gore during the Presiden-
tial debates, walking up to the dais to confront
Flynn with factual inaccuracies in the case
and demanding to know more.

Flynn reiterated the points of his argument,
and offered sources to back up his claims of
Abu-Jamal’s guilt. He argued that “Abu-
Jamal is hardly unusual among death row
inmates at professing his innocence even in
the face of overwhelming evidence to the
contrary.”

DIA brings the world to
Davidson’s children

By NIPUN PAUL
Staff Writer

On what seemed like an average quiet
Saturday morning at Davidson, anyone walk-
ing past the College Union would not have
noticed anything out of the ordinary, and
would have passed on, unaware of the bed-
lam that raged within.

On Saturday, the 31st of March, 120 el-
ementary school children filled the Union,
dancing to the deafening sounds of the Mexi-
can maracas they had made, taking part in
DIA’s Multicultural Kids Day.

Multicultural Kids Day is an annual event
sponsored by DIA (Davidson International
Association). Flyers are sent to schools in the
area, and registration is done over the phone.

This is the fourth year that this event has
taken place in the Union and the number of
children attending has risen steadily. This
year registration had to stop when the num-
bers hit 130.

MKD spanned the entire morning and took
over most of the Union. The children came in,
were divided into groups based on age, and
were assigned to a “buddy” - one of the
college students who were helping out. Each
child was given a large paper bag, and their
first task was to decorate it with vivid paints
and glitter.

Each group then moved through a succes-
sion of booths where they learnt how to make
a variety of international crafts such as Chi-
nese fans, Mexican maracas, Native Ameri-
can dream catchers and African masks.

The program concluded with everyone ad-
journing to the 900 room for snacks and a flag
show, where the volunteers from different
countries came forward and taught the kids
how to say “Hello” in their native languages.

The Davidson Community Service through
music group Looney Tunes also performed
and there was a demonstration of Ethiopian
dance called Esketa.

The final event was a series of piñatas,
which the children took turns trying to break,
and ended in a mad rush for the shower of
candy that descended on them.

Show off your skills
Write for
The Davidsonian

Contact Aaron Houck or
Richard Vinson x6213

LimeAide

Refreshing Delivery Service

Job Opening
with Start-Up Company
in Charlotte

Contact LimeAide President
and Davidson Graduate,
Alec McAlister (1991)
at (704) 333-LIME
Or fax resume to (704) 335-LIME
