Rededication Day aims to raise awareness of Honor Code

By Roland Foss
Staff Writer

The Honor Council has been taking a proactive role in college life lately. After months of planning, Honor Code Rededication Day will take place Thursday from 4:30 to 10 p.m. in the Atrium of the College Union. The event is part of the Council’s desire to raise awareness of the Honor Code and its importance at Davidson.

“We want to make the Honor Code more accessible to students,” said Amber Parke '04, Honor Council member and Chair of Honor Code.

From page 1: intentionally or negligently representing another’s words or ideas as one’s own.” It was this wording that the Honor Council voted to endorse Monday night, by a vote of 22-0, with five members abstaining. The matter now rests in the hands of the Student Conduct Council, which will take two votes, with a waiting period in between to allow for student and faculty opinion on the proposal to develop. SCC is composed of Dean of Students Tom Shandley, SGA officers, class presidents, several faculty members, and other students specifically elected to SCC. After that, the proposal’s last stop will be College President Bobby Vagt (although the Board of Trustees has final authority).

Will Parker enthusiastically endorsed the proposed change. “This proposal is, without question, an improvement over our current wording,” said Parker. “It allows the Honor Council to deliver appropriate decisions, while ensuring that students who make good faith efforts to cite their work will not be in jeopardy of violating our Honor Code.”

Others, however, are still uncertain about the absence of the word “unreasonable.” Anderson, who abstained from the vote, is one of them. “My fear is that future Honor Council panels may begin to interpret ‘negligence’ to mean any degree of negligence... I fear this proposal could potentially handcuff panels into delivering guilty verdicts when they feel in their hearts that the accused exhibited no effort to deceive,” Anderson said.

Anderson emphasized, however, that “I am proud of the process we have embarked upon... the result is a sturdy and thoughtful proposal, a successful effort at crafting a more perfect, applicable Honor Code. I do endorse this resolution, if for no other reason than I am confident in the process that crafted it.”

“Is it perfect? No. But it is certainly more perfect than the current wording,” said Parker.

THE RECENTLY APPROVED HONOR CODE CHANGE:
Current Wording: Cheating includes plagiarism, which is representing another’s words or ideas as one’s own.
Proposed Wording: Plagiarism is intentionally or negligently representing another’s words or ideas as one’s own.

Spaghetti, mock trial part of Honor Day

Student Conduct Council will vote on proposed Honor Code change. Opportunity for students to express their opinions on this issue will be immediately available, said Parker. “At this Thursday’s Honor Code Rededication Day, we will have a forum on the Honor Code, in which we will invite several faculty members, Honor Council members, Patterson Court and other student leaders to participate. I'd be surprised if plagiarism isn’t a topic of conversation during that.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In a letter to the Student Conduct Council, Anderson encouraged students with opinions or concerns to also express them to the student members of the SCC. “There are probably few more important issues before the student body this year. The Honor Code is a hallmark of this institution — any change to it must be taken very, very seriously. We have to consider the effect any change will have on accused students, but also the effect any change will have on the student body and faculty’s faith and admiration for the Code.”

“I predict that the Student Conduct Council will pass some change, even if it’s not the exact wording of our proposal,” said Parker. “If there’s one thing upon which faculty and honor council members agree, it is that some change in our Code is needed.”

“Over the past year, we’ve had countless discussions, forums, and committee meetings to get to this point. Even if no change passes the SCC, this debate has been good for Davidson. And even if our resolution does become part of the Honor Code, my hope is that this debate can occur again.”

The Right Price. Satisfaction, Guaranteed Style

“Often, people think ‘the Honor Council does a good job of implementing the Honor Code; I don’t need to worry about it,’” commented Honor Council President Will Parker ’02. “That’s false logic. This Honor Code — this covenant to which all 1,600 students are party — relies upon activity on everyone’s part. Honor Code Rededication Day aims to prompt students to engage in this kind of reflection about their Code.”

The evening will include a mock trial, involving a scenario in which SGA President Joey Harris is accused of cheating. “Not many students have seen an honor trial before,” said Parker. “Thursday, the hearing will depend on audience members’ deliberations to arrive at a verdict.”

A spaghetti dinner sponsored by College President Bobby Vagt is also planned. Debates on the Honor Code and its relevance will take place during the meal. “The dinner should be fun and informative,” said Parke.

Question and answer boxes concerning the Honor Code have been placed in the Chambers Building and the Union in an effort to increase student understanding. Students are encouraged to submit any questions they might have.

The Rededication Committee also plans to resurrect copies of pages from the Honor Code book signed by the members of each class at freshman orientation. These sheets will be mounted on the walls of the Union as a reminder of students’ commitment. “It’s important that we as a community do more than sign the Honor Code register our first year and follow it the remaining four years,” said Parker. “Instead, the Honor Council envisions a Davidson that is comprised not only of people following a policy, but that is also constantly thinking about its common pledge to each other.”

Visit our website at www.greatclips.com.

GOOD ONLY AT:
Turnberry Place Shopping Center
I-77, Exit 28, Cornelius
-next to Sushi at the Lake-
(704) 987-0607

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY $8.95
OFFER EXPIRES

---