CHARLOTTE ACTIVITIES
COMPILED BY D. Lou
Arts and Living Co-Editor

So, let’s see...Friday night...What to do? What to do? Drink? Steal golf carts? Break some stuff? The Court? Senior apartments?
Swipe my CatCard ten times at the Union Café? Go night swimming at The Lake Campus? Davidson gets a little
boring, and the surrounding towns of Mooresville and Cornelius provide little more than a Goodwill, KFC, and a bowling alley
or two. Fear not, Charlotte will come to your rescue! Not really. You have to drive down there, and then
pay some money, but here’s a quick list of upcoming events in the Charlotte area.

In the theater world, Larry Shue’s comedy *The Foreigner* opens at the Charlotte Repertory Theater today. The play will run
until September 30. Ticket prices are between $25 and $30. Visit charlotterep.org for details. Main Street got you down? Get
out of the Davidson “bubble”: head to Charlotte for a shmorgasbord of great things to do and see! Also, the
wildly popular show *Blast!* will be coming to Charlotte’s Oven’s Auditorium on October 16-21. Shows are expected to sell out,
so buy tickets early. Visit performingartsctr.org for more information.

As for concerts, Jay-Z’s September 27 concert at Grady Cole still has tickets available through ticketmaster.com. And in the following
two days, uptown Charlotte plays host to the Queen City Music Fest 2001. On September 28 and 29, twenty bands
will be playing, including Blues Traveler, Cheap Trick, and Gran Torino. Passes are also valid at several Charlotte clubs and
bars for the weekend. Visit queencitymusicfest.com for more information. Also on the 28th at 6 pm is the Lloyds Blues
Festival, with headliner BB King. Tickets are still available at ticketmaster.com. Prices range from $19-$40.

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

*The Deep End* is a terribly frustrating movie. It grabs you from its opening sequence and keeps you on the
edge of your seat until its final moments. And then, as you walk out of the theater, you realize that
the film cheats, that its thrills are momentary. At times *The Deep End* evokes the same emotions as movies like
*North by Northwest* and *The Spanish Prisoner*: it surprises, scares, and finds humor in its protagonist’s predicament. But while *The
Deep End* exhibits chilling sequence after chilling sequence, it feels like each successive scene was just thrown in, not necessary
to the plot, but not completely useless either.

*The Deep End* reminds me of *American Beauty*. They differ completely in their stories, but my criticism of the two
movies is nearly identical. Both films are rich in symbolism, full of beautiful color imagery and strong performances. Each has
scenes that are so captivating — we remember the now infamous bag scene — that they belong in better movies.
*The Deep End*, like *American Beauty*, emerges as an unbalanced, almost superfluous film in which greatness surfaces only from time
to time.

*The Deep End* offers some cheap thrills. In *The Deep End*, Tilda Swinton stars as Margaret, mother of three and
wife of a navy admiral. Her performance has Roger Ebert saying, “On Feb. 12, 2002, Tilda Swinton will be nominated
for an Academy Award as best actress, for her performance in *The Deep End*. This is universally assumed.” Her eighteen-year-old
son, Beau (Jonathon Tucker), is having a relationship with a 30-something club owner named Darby. While both were drunk, Beau
crashed his car. Margaret tells her son’s lover to stay away; Darby asks for $5,000. Of course, Darby doesn’t stay
away and visits Beau late one night. Darby is drunk, Beau is frustrated, they fight, and Darby, unknown to Beau,
falls on an anchor and kills himself. The next morning Margaret goes for a walk and stumbles upon Darby’s body.
Her first reaction is that Beau was the murderer and she hides the body, poorly. The rest of *The Deep
End* involves a sex tape, blackmail, $50,000, and a mysterious man named Alek Sperra (Goran Visnjic). Describing more of the
story would be spoiling it.

Again, *The Deep End* is at all times interesting, and at some times fascinating. Scott McGehee and David Siegel’s script
— they also directed the film — deals wonderfully with gender issues. Margaret’s daughter fixes the cars when she’s not
at ballet lessons. Swinton’s Margaret maintains, to some degree, a wonderfully androgynous nature. Opposite these modern women is Margaret’s father-in-law,
a conservative annoyance of a man. And then there’s Beau: trumpet and water polo player, high school senior, college applicant,
and homosexual. Really, he’s just an average American teenager.

Despite all its ideas and useful symbolism, *The Deep End*, particularly because of its ending, which is both satisfying and
cheap, remains just an average thriller with moments of glory.problems, ironically enough, stem from the film’s strongest point: its script.
McGehee and Siegel handle their ideas masterfully, but their almost segmented plot flaws the film. The Deep End will be
playing at The Manor Theater in Charlotte until September 20, and will tentatively move to The Movies at Birkdale on
the 21st. Grade: B-

Bleed American: Jimmy Eat World’s new album offers “an exciting ride”
By Jeremy Hunt
Staff Writer

It’s been a rather eventful year in the world of music, if only from a standpoint of established artists releasing
new albums. We’ve witnessed the return of Weezer, as they moved from a cult favorite to a mainstream mega-success. Radiohead
graced the world with another genre-melting record, mixing underground electronica techniques with their peculiar musical interpretation of modern society. Fans
of dark, brooding rock rejoiced at the sounds of Tool’s latest work and the pummeling soundscape that it created. P.O.D.’s
long-awaited return, Satellite, just appeared on Tuesday.

Why am I telling you all of this? Because another group has recently issued their latest foray into musical creation,
but unless you’re a fan of Southwestern indie rock, you may not have heard of them. And it would be
a shame for you to miss out on this artist and this album, because it is one of the year’s
best. The group is Jimmy Eat World, hailing from Arizona, and the record is Bleed American.

Jimmy Eat World’s last effort, Clarity, was put out by Capitol Records and became something of an indie rock classic
in its own right. Despite being published by a major mainstream label, Clarity didn’t receive much promotional support. Soon thereafter,
Capitol released them from their contract. So with no guarantee of backing from a label, the band members continued touring,
while periodically returning to the studio to record what would become Bleed American. Thankfully for us all, the folks at
DreamWorks Records got wind of their predicament and signed them to the roster.

Jimmy Eat World has put together an album chock-full of auditory splendor, ranging from raging guitar riffs to soaring vocal
melodies to poetic lyrics. Consider it somewhat akin to moving from a conventional automobile to one of those science fiction
floating cars: it’s an amazing ride and you’ll love every minute of it.

The record opens with a bang, greeting the listener with the blaring guitars and pounding drums of the title track.
It’s a biting criticism of America’s modern culture of comfort and greed:

I’m not alone because the t.v.’s on
I’m not crazy because I take the right pills every day and rest
I bled the greed from my arm
Won't they give it rest now?

It’s a powerful way to open the album and a tough act to follow, but the remaining 10 songs are
more than up to the task. Among my favorites are “A Praise Chorus”, “Sweetness”, “Get It Faster”, “Cautioners”, and “My
Sundown”. Of course, the other songs are also fantastic. These songs simply possess qualities that set them ahead of the
rest.

“A Praise Chorus” features the vocals of Davey Vonbohlen of the group, The Promise Ring, and excerpts from two different
songs: Tommy James’ oldies classic “Crimson and Clover” and new wave Madness’ hit, “Our House”. I must admit that I
am a sucker for good rock songs that feature “whoa-whoa” vocals and “Sweetness” is one of those songs. It is
so catchy it’s ridiculous. Meanwhile, “Get It Faster” and “Cautioners” both utilize interesting and creative musical motifs. “Get It Faster”
starts with an eerie bass and sound effects intro and progresses to a solo duel where the two guitars question
and answer each other. The interesting bass lines continue in “Cautioners”, where a drum cadence and an off-rhythm bass riff
are layered under a shimmering guitar voice. Both “Cautioners” and “My Sundown” feature the beautiful backing vocals of Rachel Haden.
Her voice also graces “Hear You Me” and “If You Don’t, Don’t”. It’s almost worth the price of the record
just to hear how brilliantly she accents songs.

As an added bonus, the CD is enhanced with a link to a secret website where you can download video
footage and a demo of one of the album songs. If you want to check out their sound before you
buy it, you can download the title track from mp3.com. All in all, Bleed American is a phenomenal album, filled
with songs of criticism and hope. But don’t take my word for it - check out Jimmy Eat World for
yourself as soon as you have a chance.

Rating: 5 turntables (out of 5)
