Can a small, residential, liberal arts college institutionalize “community building?” Does it really need to? Some at Davidson apparently think so. Student leaders recently presented their plans for a campus-wide community hour to the Faculty Executive Committee. The idea for a time to meet informally in small groups, to participate in thematic programming, or to discuss campus issues certainly sounds appealing. Moreover, its proponents are on target with their analysis of the perceived weaknesses of the Davidson community. Whether at meals, sporting events, worship, study groups, or the local post office, interaction between students primarily, and all Davidsonians generally, is becoming narrower and more infrequent. This decline in the actual, observable instances of communal behavior corresponds to a decline in the intangible benefits of a strong community, such as a “common memory” of shared experiences and a sense of a common mission.

This description is, of course, entirely relative. Davidson may be much more community-oriented than other similar institutions. In addition, this academic community may simply have evolved. Nevertheless, the fact remains that the college is not what it once was, and some students, faculty, and staff want to hold on to a piece of that past. Will the community hour achieve this? In all likelihood, no. There are reasons for the changes in social patterns at Davidson, and lack of available time is not one of them. Students are simply more concerned about pursuing activities that most closely match their own personal interests. The variety of teams, clubs, and other organizations at Davidson is evidence of this. We have become quite adept at cramming the greatest possible amount of “self-enrichment” into our limited schedules. That this trend pulls students away from the center and into ever-smaller circles is simply a fact. On the other hand, bringing people into one room for two hours a week will not make them think of themselves as a cohesive whole. If proximity bred community, our residence and dining halls would have achieved that already.

Could the community hour change this? Possibly. However, it will only succeed if the campus makes an effort to keep the hour as it was intended to be — a time to pay attention not to our own hectic lives but to the lives of the people around us. Students, faculty, and staff must come to believe that their presence here is not coincidental — that they have a purpose, that they belong. This is far from impossible. But for an institution, it is highly unlikely.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck, Editors-in-chief

Recycling took the efforts of many Davidson students

We are writing in response to last week’s article entitled “Patterson Court Goes Green: Houses Now Offer Recycling.” It is extremely biased and misrepresents the occurrences that led up to the introduction of recycling on Patterson Court. The article opens with “It only took one observant and resourceful Gray Patterson, sophomore class president, to build off of the already existing (but limited) recycling program at Davidson and make Patterson Court environmental friendly.” This sentence is incorrect. It took the efforts of MANY observant and resourceful students who were dedicated to the cause of making Davidson more environmentally friendly. Gray Patterson and the rest of SGA put forth some effort in this endeavor. However, the Physical Plant and the Environmental Action Coalition (EAC), particularly its Recycling Committee, did the bulk of the work; therefore they deserve credit. It should also be noted that EAC is not a committee, as the Davidsonian claims; it is a coalition comprised of many environmental focused committees, including, but not limited to the Recycling Committee.

This is the second time in the past year that the Davidsonian has made an error in EAC’s association with the recycling program. Last spring the Davidsonian also gave SGA credit for EAC’s work on bringing recycling back to campus. In response to that article, Dr. David Martin, co-faculty advisor to EAC, informed the Davidsonian of EAC’s extended effort in the implementation of the recycling program and of their misnomer in referring to EAC as a committee. In response to his letter, the Davidsonian apologized for their mistake and assured that it would not happen again, but it reoccurred last week. Despite the multiple errors of last week’s article, Patterson is correct in saying that “we need a more conscious effort from all of the houses.” This effort should begin with the houses bringing their new recycling bins inside from off their porches.

Margaret Holt, Mary Wise, and Jill Neumayer

By Jos Craft, Columnist

On Thursday, the Senate approved the nomination of John Ashcroft as the US Attorney General. The Bush pick proved to be extremely controversial because of Ashcroft’s civil rights record and staunch opposition toabortion. Although I am deeply suspicious of how effectively Ashcroft will execute his task of enforcing our nation’s laws, the appointment of an archconservative to a powerful position in the US government creates an opportunity for the Bush administration to alter the stereotypical relationship between Republican politics and civil rights. The voting rights of African-American communities were clearly violated in this past election. Thousands of black communities were disenfranchised by confusing and unfair voting practices in Florida and across the country. The Washington Post reported that in Fulton County, Georgia, a largely black district, 1 in 16 ballots were lost. By comparison, in Cobb County, Georgia, an affluent and predominantly white community, only 1 in 200 ballots were lost. A higher percentage of black voters used unreliable voting systems. African-American organizations across the country were outraged and rallied to protest the results of the election. In order to understand the anger that African-Americans felt after the 2000 election, it is necessary to consider the history of black voters in this country. After the Civil War, Congress passed the 14th and 15th Amendments that guaranteed equal protection under the law and the right to vote for African-Americans. If the law had worked as it was meant to, African-Americans would not have experienced any more difficulties with it. According to historian Howard Zinn in A People’s History of the US, the US government simply refused to follow the amendments: “The 14th and 15th amendments...gave the President enough authority to wipe out racial discrimination. The Constitution demanded that the President execute the laws, but no President had used that power.” Even after the Supreme Court struck down Plessy v. Ferguson (1896) and ruled in favor of desegregated education in Brown v. Topeka Board of Education (1954), the state and national governments of the US did little to actually enforce these provisions. Following the massive protests in favor of civil rights, Presidents Kennedy and Johnson passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

WEDNESDAY, February 7, 2001

Civil Rights Issues for Bush Administration

Unfortunately, the 2000 election supported the historical trend that the government fails to provide equal protection in the realm of voting. It does not matter how blacks lost their right to vote. Under the Voting Rights Act, it is not necessary to prove the existence of a conspiracy, only that there was a loss of voting privileges. Although many presume that African-Americans are treated equally under the law, one only needs to refer to some of today’s most contentious political issues to see otherwise. An estimated 50% of black children still remain in poverty. The death penalty unfairly discriminates against blacks. Furthermore, the US GPO discovered a “pattern of evidence indicating racial disparities in the charging, sentencing, and imposition of the death penalty,” and that “those who murdered whites were more likely to be sentenced to death than those who murdered blacks.” Schools and educational opportunities throughout the country still prove grossly inadequate for black children. In his book Savage Inequalities, Jonathan Kozol warns that “racial segregation has been, and continues to be, largely uncontested...In public schooling, social policy has been turned back almost one hundred years.” It is imperative that Americans recognize the enormous amount of racial inequality that still exists in the U.S. Traditionally, Republicans have opposed measures that would, either directly or indirectly, help to alleviate the problems that African-Americans experience today. By adopting a race-sensitive disposition, Bush and his administration can change that image. Instead of wondering why 9 out of 10 blacks voted against George W. Bush, both the Republicans and the Democrats need to work to find ways to improve the situation of African-Americans. Rather than pushing for separate minority districts in order to isolate the black vote, the Republicans should embrace the agenda of African-Americans and aggressively enforce civil rights laws. Such an approach would prove beneficial for the Republican Party; it will be rewarded with an increasing number of blacks choosing to vote for it. According to NAACP president Kweisi Mfume, “The Democratic Party has taken black votes for granted...The black vote is up for grabs.” A genuine concern for civil rights, including legislation and consistent enforcement of civil rights laws, will allow the Republicans to gain minority votes. I hope that the Bush administration will recognize this and take steps to end the plight of African-Americans in our country.

The Davidsonian

ALEMDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF
Aaron Houck, Richard Vinson

BUSINESS MANAGERS
Peter Clark, David Johnston

COPY EDITOR
Anna Kyanvig

NEWS EDITORS
Tim Cook, Jessica Mering

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Peter Clark, David Johnston

SPORTS EDITORS
Matt Garfield, Burgin Hardin

ARTS & LIVING EDITORS
Thomas Cullen, Martha Hunt

PERSPECTIVES EDITOR
Mara Mordini

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITORS
Erin Berry, Matt Whited

CIRCULATION MANAGER
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html