@ ALENDA LU
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2001
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 14

Harris and Pittenger vie for SGA presidency
By Tim Cook AND Jessica Mering
News Editors

The top seat of the Student Government Association is for the first time in two years a contested election. Joey Harris, ’02, and Bobby Pittenger, ’02, are running for the president of the SGA. Recent controversy over the rights and roles of Patterson Court houses has been an important issue on campus. Both candidates agree that the Court is a vital part of Davidson.

“I think it’s important — one of our biggest roles is to make sure the administration does not push around the Court. It’s important to have vibrant fraternities and eating houses to help the community,” said Harris.

Harris and Pittenger agree that making the voice of the students heard is imperative. Pittenger is working to create an online forum to provide a venue for those voices. The forum would be available for student postings and a way for the administration to access student opinion. Harris also plans to work towards mediation between the two parties.

“Whenever the students feel the administration is being too harsh, it is our role to continue discussion and try to find compromises, because no one gets anything done yelling back and forth,” he commented.

The candidates bring different types of experience to the campaign. Harris has most recently served as SGA Vice President. During his term, he served two terms as a senator and was elected class president both years.

“I’ve put a lot of time and love and energy into the SGA. I have a lot of ideas for the coming years and I think I’ve done a good job so far,” said Harris.

Pittenger is Junior Class President this year. During his term, he has worked to make his ideas possible. “Two things I’m really pumped

Harris Teeter pulls out of Town Center
By JT Tolentino
Staff Writer

Two possible additions to downtown Davidson have sparked discussion among townspeople lately. The Town Center Project, including the construction of a Harris Teeter Express, and a proposal for new town homes have both been under consideration promising to change the landscape of Davidson while respecting its character. The Town Center recently announced, however, that a grocery store would not be coming.

Late last November, Harris Teeter, Inc., pulled out of the plan to put a “Harris Teeter Express” in the new Town Center project developed by the Stevens Company. The land where the new building was to be built had already been cleared, and the historic Blake House had moved to a new lot 300 feet away.

“We are very disappointed. I think that this is a good project [for Harris Teeter],” said Mayor Randy Kincaid. Mayor Kincaid believes that the Harris Teeter Express would have been a great addition to the town.

“It is possible that Harris Teeter will come back,” he added.

The Harris Teeter Express is a scaled-down version of the Harris Teeter, and would have resembled the store of the same name located on Providence Road in Charlotte. The grocery store would have featured a smaller stock of items, but specializing in ready-to-eat foods, such as prepared meals.

In the original plan, the Town Center project included 19 conditions that the Stevens Company had to meet, including a provision that Harris Teeter had to be the main tenant of the project. The new building, located on the corner of Main and Concord, would contain 13,500 square feet, with the Harris Teeter Express occupying the bottom floor and offices occupying the second.

According to Jessica Walton, spokesperson for Harris Teeter, “Harris Teeter never signed a lease [for the Town Center] because the company believed that the store would not be financially successful.” Harris Teeter already operates two other grocery stores in the North Mecklenburg area.

With Harris Teeter now out of the picture, the Stevens Company is now looking for another store to anchor the Town Center. However, according to Mayor Kincaid, the Stevens Company does not have to go through the entire processof making the proposal to the town, as they did earlier last year. “Basically, all they have to do is re-amend the proposal [for a new tenant].” Town planner and Davidson graduate Meredith Judy ’00 indicated that “the same people will probably fight [the proposal] again” when the Stevens Company comes.

See Teeter, page 2

Vice President. Prior to about are internet voting and the 20 new red bikes that are coming,” he commented. The candidates bring many new ideas with them. Harris identifies five issues that would be his top priorities if elected. He wants to make SGA more accessible and user-friendly. He also intends to prove that SGA is a resource for budding new organizations by providing publicity, funding, and chartering. Thirdly, he feels that SGA needs to continue to be involved in community service. Next, he sees it as necessary for the president to encourage discussion of campus problems and issues. Finally, and most importantly, Harris wants to be a “voice of the students to the trustees, administration, and faculty. That’s what I’ve been doing. We need to continue representing the interest of students.”

“If there’s anything I want to be for, win or lose, it’s that I worked hard for my peers,” he said. Pittenger is running on the slogan “Leadership with Results.” He names several goals that he plans to accomplish if elected. He wants to make sure that clocks are in every classroom in order to make the day run more smoothly. Along with the online forum, he’d like to establish a newsletter to inform the students of the SGA’s activities. He also hopes to develop a...

See President, page 4

Brown leaves Dean Rusk post for D.C.
By JESSICA MERING
News Editor

This year will mark Ambassador Ken Brown’s last as the Director of the Dean Rusk Program. In June, he will leave Davidson to become the president of the Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training in Washington, D.C. Prior to his arrival at Davidson, Brown served as a career foreign service officer. He spent some time in Europe but his expertise is concentrated in African issues. Brown received three ambassadorships: to Congo, Ivory Coast, and Ghana. He also served as the Consul General in Johannesburg, South Africa, and the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs.

Brown came to Davidson in 1995 hoping to integrate his background in foreign service with the education of young adults. As Director of the Dean Rusk Program for International Studies, he oversees the program’s educational initiatives as well as its grants’ allocations. He also teaches courses in the Political Science department, including Conflict Resolution and African Politics. While at Davidson, Brown has introduced colleagues from his foreign service career to Davidson. “The advantage of someone coming in from the outside is that he also brings his contacts with him,” said Brown. In recent years, Davidson has hosted Jane Goodall, photographers Carol Beckworth and Angela Fisher, and the Director General of the World Wildlife Fund, Claude Martin. Brown has also facilitated the organization of conferences including those addressing US-China relations, Faith and Affairs of Nations, and International Conservation in the New Millennium.

Along with the Office of Development, Brown created the Dean Rusk Advisory Council, made up of Davidson alumni and friends of the college. Brown has also tried to...

See Brown, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

In the beginning, ...
Two prominent philosophers debated the origins of the world last Thursday in front of a packed house. William Lane Craig and Quentin Smith hashed out the question - Did God create the universe?
News page 3

Environmentalism, PCC style
The effective but limited recycling program has expanded its operations onto the Court thanks to the efforts of Sophomore Class President Gray Patterson.
News page 4

Black and white
Peter Milton’s haunting prints make the most out of their spare hues.
Arts & LIVING page 6

Pranks galore
One Davidson student sounds off about the “surprises” left behind by the outgoing administration for George W. Bush and his colleagues.
PERSPECTIVES PAGE 8