A week after the disaster, a New Yorker’s perspective on the crisis

By ALEXANDRA ROBINSON
Special Contributor

There are a thousand sensational phrases one might use to attempt a description of what the people of New York
City experienced on September 11, 2001. Words like ‘horror’, ‘nightmare’, and ‘unbelievable’ come up time and time again, but none
of them do justice to what they try to describe.

Footage of the attacks on television that day was almost always accompanied by a reporter’s voice. But when the sound
was played along with the picture, you could hear the reactions of the people on the street. A sustained wailing
scream rose up, while some just repeated “Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God.”

When a reporter asked one man what he felt when he witnessed the disaster, he looked back as though stunned
by the absurdity of the question. “I have just seen men and women jumping from windows 80, 90, 100 stories
high. I am traumatized for life.”

As most people are keenly aware by now, there is a positive side to the emotion that has risen out
of the events of September 11, 2001. Patriotism and national unity have been revived in a way that only times
of crisis can bring about. The nation’s attitude toward New York City has changed, and vice versa.

One reporter spoke to a man and his sister who had come to New York in search of their missing
brother. “We’re from the Midwest,” they explained, “and we’ve always thought of New York as a cold and uncaring place.
We know now that’s not true.”

President Bush’s recent visit to the scene of the disaster reinforced what was already evident: that New York is being
held up as a symbol of national spirit. And for once, as the words of Mayor Giuliani and of many
witnesses attest, the city is eager to take on that role—not just to be a tribute to its own strength
and greatness, but to that of its entire nation.

In times like this, it is comforting to focus on such fraternal feelings. But for thousands of people in New
York, these secondary emotions are still drowned in apprehension and grief. My mother watched as a reporter questioned a man
about his reaction to Bush’s visit and the strong promises the president had made concerning the punishment of those who
had perpetrated the crime.

The man gave short, distracted answers following each question, after which he would hold his brother’s picture up to the
camera again, entreating anyone who had seen him to please call the number he had written. The heavy cloud hanging
over the city is simply too thick to allow a change of focus so soon.

The atmosphere of trauma and confusion is pervasive, and every single person has a story to tell. A friend of
mine was in the New York Stock Exchange when the disaster occurred. Immediately, he said, guards locked the building so
that no one could leave, even handcuffing those who seemed insistent on exiting. When he emerged from the building hours
later, the air was still thick with dust, ash, and blowing papers.

Another man described the scene he saw following the collapse of the towers. People began to run toward the river,
many of them jumping into the water without looking back. Boats came to collect those who were fleeing, taking them
to New Jersey or Ellis Island—anywhere to get them away from Manhattan.

Yet another man told of his evacuation from a neighboring office building after the strikes occurred. On his way down
the stairs, he passed a woman who was in hysterics—crying uncontrollably and vomiting—so he picked her up and took her
with him. Outside, a dense crowd of people had gathered, looking up in confusion and making phone calls. He pushed
his way through the crowd and walked northward to safety. After the towers collapsed, however, he was left with the
image of all those people left behind him—just standing there and looking up.

A sense of the human loss is the most painful aspect of the tragedy, but it is not the only
one. New Yorkers have also been left with the profoundly disturbing image of the buildings themselves being destroyed.

As one young Manhattan schoolboy said, “When it happened, I thought it must have been a dream. I thought, ‘this
can’t happen.’ Those buildings were the pride of New York City.”

At another school in Manhattan, two days after the disaster, kindergarten and elementary school boys were watching a movie about
a tugboat. There was a brief shot in which the whole harbor was shown, complete with the skyline in the
background. A shifting murmur rippled through the assembly—even among the very young, the emotional reaction to the buildings is so
strong.

For New Yorkers, seeing the towers come down was like feeling a part of our bodies cut off.

---

The Village Store is proud to present sterling silver jewelry by Kit Heath.

We offer a large selection of bracelets, earrings, rings, and necklaces in styles that range from bold to delicate. Many
pieces feature vibrant, semi-precious stones.

Reasonably priced—great for yourself or a loved one!

The Village Store
110 South Main Street #704/892-4440
In the Heart of Historic Downtown Davidson
Fine Gifts and Accessories Since 1966

---

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for birthday or graduation celebrations,
study breaks, exam time, or just for fun!

BEN & JERRY’S
VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
