WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2001

Wild court parties, talk radio, Jack Welch, and quesadillas. Meet Kells Hetherington.
By MARTHA Hunt
Arts and Living Editor

Well, responses to my announcement in the last paper haven’t been too numerous, so it remains a mystery as to whether or not this will be the last of the interviews. If you have no idea what I’m talking about, pull out last week’s Davidsonian and scan the A&L section to find out what’s up. Then read this week’s interview, and tell us what you think.

I am very excited to bring you an interview which has been a long time in the making. Kells Hetherington, by all reports, is a legend in his own time. He graciously agreed to answer my inane questions. If you don’t know him, now’s your chance! Consider it a sort of literary version of shaking hands. Be sure to wave hello when you see him at Commons, or elsewhere on this intellectual sod. If you are privileged enough to have rubbed shoulders with this Davidson icon, then read on for more of your favorite man on campus.

MH: So Kells, where are you from?
KH: Martha, I am from New Canaan, Connecticut.
MH: Is that home for you, or...
KH: Oh, I would definitely describe it as home—we have lived there for 20-plus years now.
MH: Wow. So now, tell me: I thought for some reason that you were a senior, but seeing that you live in the sophomore apartments, I’m not so sure. What class are you in?
KH: (smiles) Good question. Technically, I am a member of the class of 2002. The reason I live “down the hill” is, umm, because I forgot to go to RLO’s lottery night.
MH: Are you a member of a fraternity?
KH: No, I just wasn’t oriented toward Patterson Court freshman year, which is when the selection process happens.

KELLS HETHERINGTON ‘02. The man with a plan.

MH: How do you like living so close to Patterson Court?
KH: (laughs) I like it.
MH: Why?
KH: Well, I guess, like every GREAT American, I too love wild Saturday night parties.
MH: Let me change the subject and ask you something that a lot of people want to know: what happened between you and the Davidsonian?
KH: Well, I just didn’t see eye-to-eye with the paper’s management. (smiles).
MH: Kells, let me be more specific. Wasn’t there an incident after the paper ran a particular story you wrote about admissions in the spring of 1999?
KH: Yes, there was. The Admissions Office said that I had over-analyzed the information with which they had provided me. Now maybe that happened, but I don’t think so; nevertheless, people are entitled to have their own opinion. However, I wouldn’t take their complaints completely at face value. (Gives a deep sigh — aaaaahhh) I think the real problem with that article was that it didn’t sing the praises of the Admissions Office. And to conclude, I hope that we can move past this disagreement. So there you go.
MH: What is your major?
KH: I’m a Political Science major.
MH: Have you focused on a particular region in your studies?
KH: Yes. I began with a heavy emphasis on American politics. Then after a trip to South Africa, I became fascinated with sub-Saharan Africa and have sort of made that my focus. Now I feel a little funny saying that.

See Kells, page 7

Three Kings offers haunting, ironic perspectives on America
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Co-Editor

I returned to one of my favorites of recent movies this weekend. And I realized, with some surprise, that after September 11, it emerged as a film greater than the one I first saw two years ago. I had always feared that David O. Russell’s Three Kings would...become dated. When I saw it for the first time on October 3, 1999, it was a film that criticized our Americentric attitudes towards just about everything. I feared, however, that in time these attitudes would change and that Three Kings would become just another time capsule. Sure, its ideas of friendship and journalism would remain intact, but what about its attempts to resensitize us to violence, to remind us that we are, as a whole, an ignorant country, to show us that we are not the great, world police we think we are? As our economy flourished, as our prominence in the world only grew, Three Kings would become a silly, sensitive, liberal, ironic, almost anti-American film. And then September 11. Now, it seems that nothing is sensitive enough. The film still retains its power as a screwball comedy. All the jokes remain unharmed, and its examinations of gunshots still work. George Clooney and Ice Cube are still strong and powerful, and Nora Dunn’s reporter still carries the film. (She has one of the smaller speaking roles, but probably the most important.) What’s different this time around are Conrad (Spike Jonze) and Troy (Mark Wahlberg). I don’t laugh at Conrad’s stupidity or feel bad for him; I now understand from where Conrad is coming, and his comment, “Whites make better quarterbacks than blacks,” is probably the truest line in the film. (No, I most certainly don’t believe that whites or blacks make better quarterbacks based on their race. But in a movie with so many contradictory ideas, this one is the most clear. And by “truest,” I mean only that Conrad truly believes what he is saying; he is a man unclouded by ideas of political correctness, and he is free to speak his mind.)

Photo copyright Warner Bros.

Then there’s Troy, whose political ignorance and bravery made him the hero of the movie two years ago. Now, I see him as a more pathetic character than Conrad. If there is a character in Three Kings that represents our society as a whole, it is Troy. He’s stupid enough to believe his complicated, illegal plan will work. He’s ignorant enough to believe that Operation Desert Storm was a mission simply to liberate Kuwait. But luckily, an Iraqi character gives him a quick lesson in politics and selfishness in a scene that used to evoke sympathy for Troy. Now it makes me feel ashamed. Three Kings is as rich in symbolism as a film can be. From its easy-to-miss backwards American flags to its explosive footballs, from Bach to the Beach Boys to Bart Simpson, it’s both the harshest and warmest cinematic look at the United States of which I can think. And there’s the wonderful confusion between ally and enemy. Who’s the bad guy? Who’s the good guy? By the end of the film we know who is playing on what team, but are we really sure for whom we should be rooting?

Photo copyright Warner Bros.

If I learned anything while rewatching Three Kings, it is that the film cannot be contained in a simple article or discussion. I am a silly, little film nerd, and thus, please do not take me seriously when I say that watching Three Kings this weekend was one of the most profound cinematic experiences I have had. I realized something very important about the nature of film, or any form of art: that our reactions to a piece depend entirely on the context in which we experience them. That said, watching Three Kings sometime soon will surprise those who have seen the film more than those who have not.