Does Davidson only boast two spring sports?
By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Special Contributor

The February 28 issue of the Davidsonian managed to forget the swimming, wrestling, lacrosse, golf, and track teams while devoting four pages to the basketball teams and three articles to the baseball team. Where’s the logic? I don’t want to knock the teams the Davidsonian DID cover in the last issue, but rather the lack of solid coverage provided by the editors.

As a small, academic-oriented college competing at the Division-I level, Davidson requires time-commitment and dedication from all its athletes. The school is so small that 25 percent of students compete at the varsity level. ONE QUARTER of the student body represents the school athletically each year. Now, I’m wondering why twenty-five percent of the school wouldn’t want to read about their own team and other Davidson teams in a newspaper devoted to the school? You editors wonder why no one seems to read your paper each week, right? Here’s a hint: Try writing about Davidson.

To help prove my point, let’s examine page 10 of the last issue. This page presents the playoff brackets of our basketball teams in life size—successfully filling the whole page. If the brackets are absolutely necessary, then fine, keep them. But why not shrink them from 90-year-old-myopic-invalid reading size, and include more pertinent information about our athletic teams. For instance, one could have included:

1) A look ahead to the coming weekend’s conference championships for the Wildcat wrestling team. They ended up with three top finishers, Anthony Albert ’01, Jeff Libersat ’02, and Shawn Reynolds ’04. I’m sure people were wondering how successful that guy was who did the “shuck” (Libersat). This last issue of the Davidsonian described the talent of every conference team standing in the way of our basketball men, but failed to cover merely our own wrestling team’s skill.

2) A preview of the Davidson Golf team and its season outlook. The team was scheduled to compete at the Birkdale Invitational over Spring Break, but we didn’t see any preview of their competition (see above for logical reasoning).

3) The results of the lacrosse team’s two competitions by the time of publication (against Denver on February 19 and UNC on February 25). One might also have included a look ahead to the spring break competition offered by California, Stanford, and St. Mary’s.

4) An article about the tennis teams written by writers not personally connected to the sport. The “minor” sports don’t seem to receive coverage unless the athletes write about their teams themselves. This should not happen. I know Elizabeth Moreno of the girls’ tennis team and Whitney Boykin (former member) understand this frustration, seeing as they had to contribute the only article Davidson’s seen about the tennis teams this semester.

5) A wrap-up on the swimming and indoor track teams. The swim teams finished their season at their conference meet up in Virginia the weekend before the Davidsonian went to press, but I have no idea how they did because the Davidsonian didn’t even throw in a quick news blurb. The swim team boasts 34 competitors (22 girls and 12 guys)—six more athletes than both basketball teams combined. Why do four pages get devoted to two teams while another two teams don’t receive one sentence of coverage?

The track teams now move outdoors, but they both competed in a conference championship (February 23-24) just like any other team. The women’s 4x400 meter relay team shattered the school record by seven seconds, and junior Megan O’Neill broke the school record in the shot put as well. Half the team recorded personal bests in their individual events. The men’s team mirrored these favorable results as well with nearly everyone recording personal bests. Sophomore sprinter Greg Schernecke finished fractions of a second off school records in the 55 and 200 meter dashes, while junior Dan Gibson earned all-conference honors by placing third in both the 3000 and 5000 meter runs.

The job’s as easy as copy-and-paste with computer technology - but maybe I’m wrong.

Care about the Earth? Take Your Mail Home and Recycle It.
By JEHAN SHAMSID-DEEN
Special Contributor

Let me start this article by saying YOU matter. I had an interesting conversation with the Davidson Postmaster on March 19. How many of you thought that the mail you throw away in those big bins was being recycled? Well, when I asked her, I got a big fat NOPE! I’d be arrested if I took your trashed Home Depot circular to the recycling center myself because it violates federal law. That’s a damn shame. I was stunned to find out that I couldn’t put up signs over the bins to ask people to consider taking their unwanted mail home to recycle it because all post offices are supposed to be uniform. That’s even sadder. She said other people had asked her before, so I know some of you are interested. If you care about the Earth, please consider taking your unwanted mail home to recycle it.| — serving the earth away per day — for your children, imagine a then. Take your dumpster full of pre-approved credit cards and circulars that don’t even have coupons every single day. Believe me, I understand why you want to trash them; I usually do a fade-away jumper to keep my game tight. The federally-funded post office budget doesn’t contain resources to hire someone to take it to the recycling center. And, get this, mail home and recycle what you don’t want. If you’re really, really interested in trying to get some form of recycling at the post office, then email me at jeshamsiddeen@davidson.edu or contact the Environmental Action Committee at maholt@davidson.edu or mawi i u. ‘Holding hearings were the second fastest ever run by a Davidson athlete, and he’s the first male track athlete to earn two all-conference awards in at least the last 20 years.

By ANDREW MacDONALD Special Contributor

Imagine yourself walking down the street in Manhattan, past the dealers selling fake sunglasses, stolen Rolexes, and other, shall we say, less reputable goods. One person, however, seems to be offering a different sort of commodity, “ambassadorships for sale, ambassadorships for sale, get them while they are hot!” Or perhaps he isn’t selling the position — as America’s Any and all news-worthy information — could easily be attained by an intelligent editor in touch with contacts at the Sports Information Office. It’s their job to get publicity out about our school, and I’m sure they’d love for the Davidsonian to yoink their news and updates. The job’s as easy as copy-and-paste with computer technology, but maybe I’m wrong. After all, maybe the activities of 25% of the school aren’t newsworthy. I wouldn’t know; I’m just an uninformed student-athlete.

“Ambassadorship, one dollar” of the measure would be MBNA Corporation of Delaware,