cio pape rac age
SOROS a Besa? hy So

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

Davidson’s annual Fall Convocation was held in Love Auditorium last Saturday, October 27 to recognize the achievements of alumni, faculty,
and current students of Davidson College.

Current College President Bobby Vagt presided over the ceremony. After the solemn procession of flag-bearers, the faculty, and the Class
of 2002 (dressed for the first time in full graduation attire), Chaplain Rob Spach delivered the opening invocation. Immediately afterward,
Class President Bobby Pittenger ’02 and Anne Sullivan Wright, co-chair of the Parents’ Council, greeted the assembly.

Following their opening remarks, Dr. Vagt introduced the alumni who were to receive honorary degrees. Martin Daniel Eakes ’76, Barbara
M. (Bonnie) Wright ’79, and Joseph Bacon Martin ’62 all were honored as Doctors of Laws for their work to
improve their communities as a whole. Wright and Eakes are co-founders of the Center for Community Self-Help, an organization that
now has assets totaling over $800 million dollars and has loaned out over a billion dollars to various projects.

Martin, who fights amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (better known as Lou Gehrig’s disease), has worked to create a network for other
ALS patients in the Charlotte area. He is able to communicate using an eye-operated voice machine, and so has written
two inspiring books: On Any Given Day and Fire in the Rock.

Both Wright and Eakes addressed the convocation, speaking fondly of their years at Davidson as well as what has motivated
them to continue in their work. Vagt read a speech that Martin had prepared for the occasion as Martin was
unable to deliver it himself.

Several awards were also presented to current Davidson students. The Goodwin-Exxon Awards, funded in part by the Exxon Education Foundation,
are given annually to a sophomore, a junior, and a senior adjudged to exemplify the highest standards of character, good
sportsmanship, and consideration of others. This year, sophomore Lynn Burnett, junior Kate Fiedler, and senior Rachel Smith received these honors.

The Patterson Court Council House Excellence Awards are also given each fall by the council to recognize outstanding achievements in
the areas of service, spirit, and scholarship demonstrated by the members of Patterson Court organizations. Sigma Alpha Epsilon was given
the honor of being “Most Improved,” Turner was recognized as having the highest GPA (as it has for several years
in a row), and KA was awarded for community service. Notably, KA holds an annual KArnival as a fundraiser for
muscular dystrophy.

The Alumni Association Freshman Award has been presented annually since 1917 to the sophomore who attained the highest academic average
during the freshman year. This year, five members of the class of 2004 were recognized as maintaining a 4.0 GPA
as freshmen. The awards were presented to Lindy Baldwin, Melissa Breedlove, Rachel Patton McCord, Timothy Westover, and Annette Welty.

The Thomas Jefferson Award, which was established by the Robert Earll McConnell Foundation, is presented annually to a faculty member
who by personal influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship promotes the high ideals of Jefferson. The recipient must also have given
generously and well beyond the call of duty. This year’s recipient was Dr. Earl Edmondson of the History department.

Dr. John Heil of the Philosophy department was also recognized for outstanding commitment to Davidson students; he was named the
Paul B. Freeland Professor of Philosophy.

The Brass Ensemble under the direction of Dr. William Lawing and the Concert Choir under the direction of Dr. Ray
Sprague added their talents to the program.

Dr. John Heil of the Philosophy department was named the Paul B. Freeland Professor of Philosophy.

Professor of History Dr. Earl Edmondson was this year’s recipient of the Thomas Jefferson Award.

THE GOODWIN-EXXON AWARD
For the highest standards of character, sportsmanship, and consideration of others

Lynn Burnett ‘04
Kate Fiedler ‘03
Rachel Smith ‘02

Jack Purcell and Mylou Alvarez were voted the Homecoming King and Queen of the 2001 Homecoming Court. Purcell and Alvarez
were crowned during the halftime festivities of last Saturday’s football game.
