By Fiecp Smit
Special Contributor

Over this past Spring Break, the Davidson College Concert Choir and Chamber Singers went on tour to Orlando, Florida. The choirs performed at Eastminster Presbyterian Church in Columbia, SC, the Trinity Preparatory School in Orlando, the Bolles School in Jacksonville, Peachtree Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, and finally the Fourth Presbyterian Church in Greenville, SC. In between the performances was a two-day break in Orlando to enjoy the city’s many attractions.

Along the way, the choir members stayed with host families, many of whom attended Davidson. All of the members found it interesting to share experiences with the alumni and discuss the school “then and now.”

Mark Murray ‘04 and Jeff Fox ‘04 stayed with a former choir member for their homestay in Atlanta. “We were tired and wanted to go to bed, but he just wanted to stay up and talk,” Mark said. “He was so excited.” Many alumni from the areas in which the choirs sang attended the performances, and they thoroughly enjoyed the music performed. Every choir member received at least one compliment on a “job well done” from an alum.

The most enriching experience of the tour, however, was getting to spend time with fellow choir members. According to Jonathan Schellack ‘04, “I enjoyed getting to know people I did not know and people I already knew.”

Jonathan’s statement displays the primary purpose of a tour. While concerts and attractions are part of any tour, the things that people will remember are the new friendships made and the existing friendships cultivated. Being on the same trip and sharing the same experiences will inevitably bring a group closer, and this tour was no exception. The members of the tour group make the tour the experience that it is.

The members of Davidson’s concert choir, the college’s 85-voice choral troupe, took in some of the local sights during their recent tour of the southeastern United States. Orlando and Disney World proved to be popular recreation spots for the singers.

Above: back row, Kate Ramelila ‘03, Catherine Tucker ‘03, Julie Rowell ‘04, Amanda Andrews ‘04, Piper Iles ‘03; front, Emily Kuhn ‘03 and Elaine Baker ‘03.

Left: The touring choristers cozy up to Mickey Mouse for a memorable snapshot.

VEGGIE MELT ~ VEGGIE BURGER ~ VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP ~ VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES ~ CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE ~ VEGETABLE SOUP
Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

“Bet you didn’t think of us for vegetarian fare!”

Eat-in ~ Take-out
896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9
104 S. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, NC