THE DAVIDSONIAN

“I love the comfortable atmosphere and setting.”
- Shawn Reynolds ’04

“It defeats the purpose of the original outpost.”
- Julie Hwang ’02

“It feels really at home because of the open atmosphere.”
- Meg Lafontaine ’04

“There are not as many people as I expected.”
- Joe Palatinus ’05

“As a home of activity, it’s got a great buzz. It really impresses prospective students and their parents on tours,
and it’s great to be able to see who’s here at first glance.”
- Desi Cooper ’02

“It makes it a lot less convenient to go grab food between class, especially if you are a science major.”
- Kristine Grayson ’03

News
Students express reactions to new Al

Students were welcomed back to school this year with the new showcase of Davidson’s campus - the recently completed Knobloch
Campus Center. Despite the convenience of the Union Cafe, post office, 24-hour workout room, pool tables, and other brand new
amenities, many students expressed mixed reactions to the new building. While most enjoyed the comfortable setting and convenience it provided,
many expressed disappointment over the food in the new Union Cafe and questioned other aspects of the facility, including the
overall improvement from the old Union.

“It’s fantastic! I can’t believe it’s finally open!”
- Rush Beam ’04

“It is very convenient for getting your mail and working out.”
- Carolyn Accinno ’03

“The wireless Internet is nice.”
- Tim Kelly ’04

“It seems like they wasted too much money... There is too much furniture.”
- Steve Clugston ’04

“Where’s the outpost food?”
- Josh Craft ’04

“It’s a little big for such a small campus. The old one had a very quaint feeling.”
- Anna Rainey ’04

“The design of the new Union makes students more apt to come in between classes, socialize, study, and get something
to eat.”
- John Pitts ’04

“The atmosphere is a lot better and the Post Office is very convenient.”
- Ryan Gentzler ’04

Alvarez College Union to be dedicated Thursday

By Nick Asma
Senior Staff

On Thursday, October 25, Davidson students, employees, alumni, and friends will gather to formally dedicate the Alvarez College Union and
enjoy dinner and fellowship afterward.

The Union was originally scheduled to be dedicated on September 13; the ceremonies were postponed in the wake of the
September 11 terrorist attacks.

The new 66,000 square-foot, five-level facility, formerly Johnston Gymnasium, was a proposed project for more than 20 years. Construction finally
began in 1997, and the naming contribution was made by Carlos Alvarez and his wife, Malu.

The San Antonio couple has a “relatively young relationship” with Davidson - their daughter, also named Malu, currently attends the
school as a senior.

Carlos Alvarez is president of the Gambrinos Company in San Antonio and remains active in the college’s Parents’ Council with
his spouse.

“It is gratifying to be able to participate in this effort which will be the hub for social life in
this academic community. A little social activity and fun will be a nice addition to the often intense academic life
at Davidson,” said Alvarez.

The school hired the Pittsburgh-based architectural firm of MacLachlan, Cornelius & Filoni to undertake the extensive project.

The architects’ plan clusters a wide variety of campus services and amenities as an open and inviting “village piazza that
accommodates accidental daily encounters as well as formal presentations.” On top of attracting students, the designers of the building also
strived to design a facility to provide space for both large and small events. Its generous space has already been
utilized for various activities such as freshman orientation, the volunteer fair, and the activities fair.

College officials say the design of the building accomplishes goals unachievable in the old Union.

“With each passing day this facility is being used in creative, new ways, allowing events to happen and people to
come together in a fashion we never imagined,” said college president Bobby Vagt.

When completed in January, the Duke Family Performance Hall, along with the Alvarez Union, will comprise the $36 million Knobloch
Campus Center.

The new Union has been a bustling center of activity in its first months of life; students have gathered to
see comedians, hypnotists, musicians, or simply to grab a sandwich, relax with friends, and (of course) study. The Nisbet Fitness
Center, open 24 hours a day, is already drawing crowds of students to its various machines at all hours of
the night. The Union Café has been redesigned to incorporate the food and hours of the Outpost and remains busy
through most of the day and early morning. The C. Shaw Smith 900 room provides much-needed space for larger events.
The new school bookstore and the post office are continually cited for their convenience.

“Thursday’s dedication will be about celebrating and thanking the Alvarezes and other donors who have made this great thing happen
for us,” said Union Board president Will Parker ’02. “As great as the financial contributions have been, a mere price
tag can never adequately describe what the Alvarezes and others have really given us: a great town square, a stage
on which to perform, a physical expression of our community.”

Over the next week, students will be able to express their appreciation to the Alvarez family using cards that will
be distributed in the Union, said Parker.

Students are encouraged to sign these cards and attend the formal dedication on Thursday to delight in food and fellowship,
pay tribute to the donors, and enjoy the newest addition to the Davidson campus.
