@ ALENDA. Davidson COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2001 VOLUME 92, NUMBER 16

Spratt speaks about Bush’s tax plan

BY BRENT BYARS
Staff Writer

Representative John Spratt (D-SC) grew up in politics, handing out fliers and learning to heckle his political opponents at an early age. Spratt credits his father with introducing him to politics, but who was never “lucky enough” to achieve political office. Spratt graduated from Davidson 37 years ago, and calls his stint as Student Government Association President a formative experience. In addition to being a Davidson College Trustee, Spratt is a tenth term Congressman from South Carolina, and the ranking Democrat on the Budget Committee.

After a Trustee meeting Friday, the representative took the time to speak to the assembled members of the Pre-Law society about the path to public service and elective office. After his talk, those in the audience had the chance to ask Spratt about US President Bush’s proposals on taxes, national missile defense, and race relations in America, which (like President Bush) the southern Democrat pronounces Ahh-merr-i-ca.

On February 8 (the day before Spratt’s visit to Davidson), President Bush officially sent his tax cut proposal to Congress, citing the concerns of a slowing economy. Spratt’s position on the Budget Committee and his knowledge of the minutiae of finance policy are important assets in the coming partisan struggle. Spratt opposes President Bush’s proposal, but his opposition is not only party-driven. Instead, Spratt brings a wealth of detail-oriented knowledge to the argument. In response to questions from students and faculty, Spratt emphasized that President Bush’s cut would disproportionately favor the more affluent because the only cuts are in the lowest (15%) tax bracket and relatively few of these individuals are currently paying taxes. The only other tax cut, Spratt said, was in the highest tax bracket (39.6%), where it would only affect the very affluent.

see Spratt, page 4

Local businesses victims of sign theft

BY COLIN EAGAN
Staff Writer

The once sleepy town of Davidson has recently been wrought with signs of crime. Well, crime of signs, anyway. Early last week, Ben and Jerry’s ice cream shop reported the theft of its outdoor, wall-mounted sign. Around the same time, employees at neighboring store Summit Coffee noticed their freestanding sidewalk sign had disappeared. A mystery quickly emerged surrounding these suspicious occurrences.

The big scoop was to be had at Ben and Jerry’s. Upon finding the sign missing last week, storeowners immediately notified town police, who in turn informed college campus police of the robbery of this cumbersome piece of store property. “You'd have to use a power tool to get the darn thing off the wall,” reflected Karen Toney, store manager at the ice cream shop. “Or at least a crow bar.” The oval-shaped sign, which featured the name “Ben and Jerry’s” above a hand holding an ice cream cone, was made of heavy, carved wood and bolted to the store’s brick exterior.

David Beam of Summit was first to observe that the coffee shop’s sign had disappeared. ‘Stolen’ in this case might be a bit of a stretch, however. “I noticed it was gone last week,” Beam recalled. “We’re not sure how or why or when exactly.”

College Communications Rep. Spratt (D-SC) spoke at Davidson on Friday.

Although the robbery does not directly concern Davidson College, campus police sergeants have been instructed to keep an eye peeled. “We work at maintaining a line of communication about any activity that could have a community impact,” said one officer.“Impact,” commented Sam McKelvey, Director of Public Safety, about filing any reports with local authorities. Those at Ben and Jerry’s, however, are pretty confident that their twenty-pound, bolt-fastened sign did not just randomly misplace itself. Covering the recently exposed bleached spot on the storefront with a new sign will cost upwards of $600. “I can’t understand who would want to steal such a thing,” pondered Toney. The store manager does not want to point any fingers but expresses her fear that the sign might currently be “gracing someone’s dorm.” 

“We directed our officers to keep an eye out for the sign in their patrol of the campus,” said McKelvey. According to him, repercussions for the college student perpetrator might not be too lenient. “If a Davidson student was found to be responsible for taking the sign, he or she could be held accountable in the state court,” he continued. “Action might also be appropriate under the College’s Code of Responsibility, depending on the circumstances.” However, in the hope of retrieving her property, Toney has offered not to press charges in exchange for the sign’s safe return. In fact, she has even arranged a reward. “Anyone who finds the sign and returns it,” promised the store manager, “will receive one complimentary Vermonster sundae.”

Up support for more grills
By Kate Auletta
Staff Writer

“Where there’s a hamburger, there’s community, and that’s what Davidson is all about,” said Dave Mabe, ’04. The Student Government Association passed a resolution to have grills, similar to those at the senior apartments, in front of various dorms, including the sophomore apartments. Class of 2003 Senator Kevin Epps and SGA President Joey Harris ‘02 co-sponsored the resolution. The proposal itself was passed in Dane Erickson’s ‘01 last meeting as SGA President. The idea began because of the extensive use of outdoor grills behind the senior apartments, Epps said. The resolution stressed that the new influx of grills placed near picnic tables would help bring about time spent as a community. 

“Davidson needs more places where people can have cookouts and the sophomore apartments would be a great location for more,” said Jordan Gratrix, ’04. When President Vagt was asked about the idea, he agreed with Epps that this resolution was a good idea in the process of community building, which may culminate with the implication of a community hour. Despite the administration’s and the SGA’s enthusiasm for the resolution (the vote passed with no rejections and only two abstentions), there are some reservations. RLO has posed concerns.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Healthy habits
Eating disorders are the third most common illness among young women. In an effort to face this problem, the Student Health Center brought nutritionist Janet Lepke Harris to campus as part of Eating Disorder Awareness Week.
NEWS page 2

Take a look with the insiders
After months of construction, the new Knobloch Campus Center is starting to take shape. Take a walk around the interior with our staff and see how the new building will look.
NEWS page 5

Moliere’s The Misanthrope
Visiting Associate Professor Jack Beasley directs the cast of this famous French comedy.
ARTS & LIVING page 6

Not-so-spring Break
Why do they call it “Spring Break” if we’re stuck at home alone shivering?
PERSPECTIVES page 9