By Jeremy Hunt
Staff Writer

Just when you thought the world was finally safe for saccharine-sweet pop music, Radiohead comes along with another album to
remind you that all is not well in this life. *Amnesiac* is their highly-anticipated follow-up to 2000’s long-awaited *Kid A*,
which was itself a follow-up to their 1998 critically-acclaimed record *OK Computer*. Detecting a trend here? For a group that
is making a career out of bucking popular music trends, Radiohead remains strangely accessible to the mainstream. Admittedly, *Kid A*
pushed the limits of what some of their fans would accept. But it did manage to hit number 1 on
the Billboard charts for a short amount of time.

So how does *Amnesiac* (due out this summer, June 5th) stack up? Is it a step back to the days
of *The Bends*? Not exactly... actually, not at all. If *Kid A* were a step off the pop music cliff,
*Amnesiac* is the result of hitting the bottom of the ravine. In the words of lead singer Thom Yorke, “If
you look at the artwork for *Kid A*... well, that’s like looking at the fire from afar. *Amnesiac* is the
sound of what it feels like to be standing IN the fire.”

If you loved *Kid A*, you'll probably take to *Amnesiac* like a fish to water. If not, then good luck.
But whatever your perspective on *Kid A*, this is another innovative album from the Fab Five and it deserves your
consideration. Thom Yorke said that *Kid A* was the world’s first cloned child. If the album bearing his name were
his life story told through music, then *Amnesiac* might be his memories and experiences, left over from *Kid A*.

Much of the music on *Amnesiac* was recorded during the *Kid A* sessions. Thus there is a definite similarity between
the two records in terms of aural experimentation. Much of the music and vocals sound as though they were fed
through a machine and spit back out. But the album is also very atmospheric. There are a lot of “traditional”
instruments clearly heard throughout. The opening track, “Packt Like Sardines in a Crushed Tin Box”, begins with percussive sounds similar
to a Caribbean metal drum. It expands with a bass line and synthesizer into a song asking for a little
slack: “I’m a reasonable man, get off my case, get off my case, get off my case”.

“Pyramid Song” is next, featuring an off-beat piano chord progression with a signature Thom Yorke vocal track. This song slowly
picks up with a syncopated drum beat that compliments the piano nicely. “Pulk/Pull Revolving Doors” is quite possibly the most
difficult track on the album. It is a juggernaut of sound, assaulting the ears with experimentation. It begins with heavy
percussion strikes, followed by a quiet electronic motif. The vocals are indecipherable and there is no truly discernible melody line.
Not exactly top 40 material.

There are, however, more accessible songs on the album, “Pyramid Song” being one of them. “I Might Be Wrong”, “Knives
Out”, and “Morning Bell/Amnesiac” are also worth mentioning. Each of these tracks offers a different facet of the band’s musical
prowess, blending traditional rock elements with their signature experimental sound.

---

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

“Is there a more universally appealing theme in porn than a beautiful woman in a white nurse’s uniform?” critic Roger
T. Pipe once said, to which one could add, “What about cheerleaders?” *Cheerleader Nurses*, directed by Bionca and written by
the legendary Jim Holliday, is *The Wasteland* and *Don Quixote* of the cinema — never has film been so innovative,
powerful, emotional, and most importantly, universal. It’s first-rate entertainment with technical skill that would make James Cameron jump off *Titanic*’s
bow.

The film begins with an exchange between Nurse Mary Jane (Tiffany Minx) and a patient played by veteran Randy Spears.
While Minx’s performance is perhaps the film’s weakest point, she at least provides Spears with a canvas for his talent.
Take note of his timing at the end of their scene. Soon after, young Mary Lou (Crystal Wilder) arrives at
the institute, which teaches cheerleading and car washing in addition to nursing. Nurse Mary Katherine (Alex Jordan) shows Mary Lou
around the facility, culminating in a sequence that is a marvel of cinematography. In most films, we can feel the
camera, its presence. We know we are watching something that has been filmed. However, in *Cheerleader Nurses*, the camera disappears,
camouflaged by technical skill and the masterful performances of Wilder and Jordan.

There is one more section of the film worthy of unlimited praise. It is the finest example of ensemble acting
I have witnessed. At the end of the film, Randy Spears, Sharon Kane, Melanie, Kiss, Nikki Sinn, and Shawnee Cates
reach, perhaps, the apex of acting with their anger, passion, and humanity. It is a scene that could stand tall
and proud by itself, but given what had preceded it, the scene (and film as a whole) is that much
more impressive.

I am indebted to another critic, a man who goes by the name “V”, when I say that the true
genius of *Cheerleader Nurses* is its writing. As “V” observes, writer Jim Holliday “has discovered that intelligence is sexy”. And,
indeed, it is. *Cheerleader Nurses* is the kind of cinematic experience that elicits gratitude from the audience, not just appreciation.

Grade: A-.“Out” and “Dollars and Cents” also fall into this category. “Knives Out” is perhaps the most disturbing song of
the record. Its lyrics include: I want you to know He’s not coming back. He’s bloated and frozen. Still there’s
no point in letting it go to waste. If you’d been a dog, They would have drowned you at birth.
These words bring to mind the horrific reality of the disposable nature of humans in our modern, advanced world: genocide,
euthanasia, abortion. Like Kid A and OK Computer, Amnesiac is not an album for the faint-of-heart or those looking for
a quick pop hook and easy chorus line. My main complaint about the record is the inclusion of the song
“Amnesiac/Morning Bell.” It is essentially a remix of “Morning Bell” from Kid A. While it is an interesting track, it
might have been better placed as a B-side to a single. I would rather have seen a brand new song
in its place. There also seems to be less cohesion musically (on the overall record) than on Kid A. But
this is, nonetheless, an intriguing album. Those who decide to give it a good listen (with the time it deserves)
will find it to be a rewarding experience. Rating: 3 & 1/2 turntables

Fast track to a Pulitzer? Editorial positions for The Davidsonian are available next year. To apply, please contact buhardin@davidson.edu

From previous page:

When people aren’t open-minded and are not open to healthy discussion. Those are the biggies.

MH: If you could change your name, what would you change it to?
MC: Kenrick. It’s my grandfather’s name. Aside from the sentimental value of the name, it’s a very versatile name. You
can be “Ken,” or just “Rick,” or “Kenrick.”

MH: What’s the stupidest thing you’ve ever done?
MC: (points to his earring) This is probably the dumbest thing I’ve ever done. But it’s also the coolest.

MH: If you could change something about yourself, what would it be?
MC: 4 inches taller. Or maybe 3. And more patience.

MH: Do you like scary or happy movies better?
MC: Happy, although I don’t dislike scary movies.

MH: What’s your major?
MC: English, minoring in economics.

MH: What do you want to do with that?
MC: Um, I’m in the pre-unemployment program at Davidson College (laughs).... My newest job craze is advertising.

MH: What was your favorite game as a child?
MC: I liked to play in the sprinkler, but that wasn’t especially a game. I think it started this fascination
with water. So I can thank my mother’s desire to have a nice lawn for these 12 long years of
painful swimming. I liked “Shoots and Ladders,” and “Trouble.” Those are good board games. Now, I like “Mafia.” Awesome card
game. There’s some new game called “Bop-It” - I haven’t seen it but I’m intrigued by it.

MH: Who’s your favorite superhero?
MC: Um, Jeremy Hunt. Just kidding. I only say that because he wears all those superhero t-shirts. My favorite is
the Incredible Hulk.

MH: If you could have any superhero power, what would it be?
MC: I want Wonder Woman’s Invisible Plane. And Gummy Bears aren’t exactly superheroes but I'd love their bouncy juice.

MH: What makes you laugh?
MC: “The Onion.” It’s an online news-magazine. My neo - no, I won’t say my neopet. My roommates. There’s a
lot that makes me laugh; there’s not a lot that I don’t laugh at. I find humor in just about
everything.

MH: What’s your favorite way to spend free time?
MC: Um, that’s a good question. Playing with DC Little Buddy! TRL, or anything MTV-affiliated. And racquetball (wear goggles).

MH: What will you miss about Davidson?
MC: The Davidsonian! (laughs) My professors. Not all of them! (laughs) Senior apartments, Commons (really), the Old Union. The New
Union (bursts out laughing) - even though I haven’t seen it yet. And of course 1600 of my closest friends.

MH: Did you enjoy being a hall counselor?
MC: Yes, very much so. I kind of did some maneuvering of my abroad experience because I really really wanted
to go abroad, and I really wanted to be a hall counselor, and I got to do both. I enjoyed
being a freshman again, and I enjoyed the 30 guys that I had the privilege of “leading” through the year.
It was good.

MH: What was the weirdest/funniest thing that happened to you as a HC?
MC: I don’t want to incriminate my hall, but I’ll throw this in for their enjoyment. The “Worms” tournament -
the best game ever between Ben Kettle and Sam Weathers! That was awesome. Various sports, games, on the wing part
of the hall. We would see what kind of things we could throw through the small space in the hall
window that’s safety-locked. At one point during the year we crammed everyone who could play an instrument into one room,
and played. It was harmonically dysfunctional, but a good jam session. Some people were playing wooden flutes, electric guitars, and
saxophones. It was good times.

MH: Well, Matt, I think that about does it.
MC: Cool.
MH: Thanks so much for coming. I wish you well as you graduate.
MC: Thanks. See you around!
