¥ Junior Janna Magette scored 26 points in the second half. Golf reorganizes for 2001 under Coach Straub By Tyler Reed Staff Writer The face of the Wildcat golf team has been transformed in the last five months. After the retirement of former head coach Joe Mark at the end of last spring, the new coach, Tim Straub, has completely reshaped the organization of the program. Straub shrunk the size of the squad, organized an effective practice routine, and enacted a more vigorous workout schedule than the team had previously seen. The men’s golf team has never had it so tough, but they all know it’s the kick in the pants that will bring the low scores. A team of nearly twenty players a year ago now exists as a squad of less than fifteen—and only one senior graduated. In August, all golfers wishing to be a part of the team, including those previously on the squad, were required to try out. Twelve players survived, including team captain Sean Davidson and returning sophomore Ben Friedell, who would lead the team to a fall season full of ups and downs. For many of the players, the greater time commitment and the more rigorous physical side of the program has made them prioritize their time out of the classroom. Players are required to be present on the track at 7 a.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays for morning workouts each week. All practice rounds count toward qualifying for tournaments. There is no messing around. “It is a much more business-like and professional atmosphere,” said Friedell. “And you better earn your keep.” Such commitment is expected to lead to greater focus and, as a result, improved performance. This spring brings the return of three men from abroad, including Oliver Cross, last season’s Most Valuable Player. This spring’s team has a potentially strong core of young faces and experienced leaders. With dedication and commitment at a peak, this season’s golf team is sure to compete with more success than ever. Said Friedell, “The bar has been raised, and I expect it to continue to be raised every year.”

28 points lead Filar earns 100th career victory By Mike Anderson Editor Emeritus After a four-hour bus ride back from Johnson City, Tenn., Janna Magette walked into Belk Arena on Saturday night and heaved a joyous sigh of relief. Her Wildcats had earned a crucial conference victory over East Tennessee State University that afternoon, opening a ray of hope in a season that had long since seemed lost. “This win brings a lot of promise,” said Magette. “This has given us a renewed spirit going into the second half.” “That was as big a morale booster as we’ve ever had,” said head coach John Filar. “We’re on a little bit of a roll.” Magette led the way with a career-best 28 points (26 of them in the second half)—the 5-8 junior guard nailed 10 of 17 shots on the night, including five of nine from behind the three-point arc. “Talk about turning it on when your team really needs it,” noted Filar. “It was one of her best performances I’ve ever seen.” The win marked Filar’s 100th career victory—a remarkable achievement for a coach who has literally built a program from the ground up over the past decade. His squads averaged 15 wins a year over the latter half of the ‘90s. But more importantly, the victory gave the Wildcats new hope as Round Two of Southern Conference play commenced. The Wildcats finished the first half of the 18-game conference season just 1-8. But few forget the remarkable turnaround that last year’s Davidson squad mounted. After dropping seven of their first nine conference games, the Jen O’Brien-led Cats went 6-3 in the second round, tied for tops in the league. “That kind of turnaround comes with a team coming together and playing as a unit,” Magette said. “We’re a young team and it’s taken a little time to get used to each other on the court.”

During Saturday’s men’s basketball game against Furman, Davidson will induct three athletes and a longtime Sports Information Director into its Hall of Fame. Emit W. Parker reported on Davidson athletics as its Sports Information Director for nearly the last third of the 20th century. He began his thirty-one year stint on January 3, 1968, in the middle of the basketball season in which Davidson was nationally ranked and advanced to the elite eight of the NCAA Tournament. He covered 308 football games during his tenure, while producing more than 1,200 brochures and programs, and writing over 15,000 press releases. Parker passed away July 11, 2000, slightly more than a year after retiring from his post. Charles L. “Mike” Williams ’49 was a multi-sport star for the Wildcats, participating in basketball, football, and tennis. In basketball, he played four seasons (1944, ’47, ’48, ’49) and was co-captain for two years. In football, he played three seasons (1943, ’47, ’48) and he was a member of the tennis team for two years (1947, ’48). He was named All-State in basketball and was a third-team All-Southern Conference selection. Four inducted into Hall of Fame.More than 800 basketball © Greg Wilcox ‘90 holds a list of Davidson career records, including most wins (33), most strikeouts (379), most strikeouts in a game (17), most innings pitched (386.1), most games started (56), and best winning percentage (.687—33 wins, 15 losses). He also is tied for second in appearances (62), tied for second in shutouts (2), tied for ninth in complete games (15), and eighth in earned run average (3.59). Wilcox also holds four single-season records for the Wildcats, including most wins (12), most strikeouts (125), most starts (18), and most innings pitched (117.1).

Craig Wall ’59 was a top-notch end on the football team and a captain his senior year, helping Davidson post winning seasons in each of his four years on the squad. No other class has accomplished this feat since. As a junior, he led the ‘Cats in receiving and scoring with twenty-four receptions for 446 yards and six touchdowns, and snared a total of fifty-six passes for 773 yards while reaching the end zone ten times during his gridiron career. Wall continued to remain close to Davidson throughout his life and was one of the college’s most influential and devoted alumni, serving as chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1989 until he passed away on March 5, 1997.

Wrestling grabs sixth win
Davidson splits dual meet, defeating UNC Pembroke while falling to Howard
By Mike Clark
Sports Information

In a rare home meet, the Davidson wrestling team won for the sixth time this season, defeating UNC Pembroke, 26-15. The Cats (6-6) also took on Howard University but fell 25-12. In the other dual match of the day, Howard downed UNC Pembroke, 28-12.

Junior Ryan Owens (157 pounds) got the Wildcats off to an early lead against UNC Pembroke with a 14-7 decision over Benji Rorie. Junior Jeff Libersat put Davidson up by eight points with a technical fall over Luciano Vera. Freshman Steve Root (133) gave the Cats the lead for good with an 11-5 decision over David Nobles. At 141 pounds, sophomore Grant Doornbos earned his second fall of the year, pinning Derrick Pierce 2:17 into the first period.

The two other winners for Davidson were seniors Dan Carman (125) and Anthony Albert (149). In Davidson’s first meet of the day, only three wrestlers were able to muster wins. Junior Jeff Bender picked up his 13th victory of the season with a 5-2 decision over Stevens Carter. Libersat stopped James Blanton 10-4 and Carman won by forfeit.

Lady Wildcats to win over ETSU
the court. I don’t think we have much of a choice (but to repeat last year’s success in the second half). We’re goin’ up.”

This mid-season bodes even more promise, though, as a young and untested Wildcat squad hopes to find its footing. Perhaps the brightest of points on Saturday was the play of freshman guard Robyn Flewelling. A highly-recruited guard who has spent most of her time at the small forward position this year, Flewelling broke into the starting lineup Saturday and responded with a 12-point first half.

“With 0:06 left at the end of the first half, Robyn takes the ball and dribbles coast-to-coast, weaving through their entire team and finishes with a layup to give us a halftime lead,” narrated Magette. “She has the moves, she has the shot. The rest of the team has believed in her all along, and now she’s finding her groove.”

Filar agreed, “We saw a different look in Robyn Flewelling’s eyes on Saturday.”

Charleston falls to streaking ’Cats
By Mike Anderson
Editor Emeritus

For the first time all season, it seems that momentum has donned a Davidson jersey. The Wildcats earned a decisive 66-54 victory Tuesday night over the fifth-place College of Charleston at Belk Arena.

“It feels great,” said a beaming Robyn Flewelling after the game. “After having such a rough start to the conference season, we’ve really learned to appreciate these wins and not take any of them for granted.”

Four different Wildcats scored in double digits, led by junior forward Kelly Copland with 15. Flewelling added 12, while Meghan Bryant and Janna Magette chipped in 11 and 10, respectively. The victory improves Davidson to 2-0 in the second half of the Southern Conference season and avenges a 69-52 loss in Charleston on Nov. 27.

“That’s a 29-point turnaround for us in two months,” Magette said. “I think that is a pretty good indication of what this second round is going to be about.”

Bryant, a freshman post player from North Mecklenburg High, continues to menace the Cougars — earning her second career double-double last night with 11 points and 12 rebounds.

“She’s just a monster on the boards,” Flewelling said. “She has a great instinct of where the ball is going to go, and she really helped us out tonight. Charleston didn’t get a lot of second chances because she was keeping them off the glass.”

Davidson travels to Cullowhee on Saturday afternoon for a Southern Conference match-up against Western Carolina. Tip-off is at 2 pm.