. Students weigh in on what America should do next

In tragedies like these, the real heroes emerge

TRAVIS LEE
Staff Writer

If one good thing has come from Tuesday’s shocking and heartbreaking attacks, it is the inspirational displays of leadership, sacrifice, heroism, and selflessness that have caused this greatest of nations to come together with near universal support for each other. These qualities have been seen in nearly all citizens, from the poor homeless who adorn their carts with the flag, to the giant corporations who have pledged millions of dollars to assist in the relief efforts. However, they have been most inspiring and glaringly obvious in those whose job it is to lead under these conditions.

From the top of the governmental hierarchy to the firefighters and National Guardsmen who comb the rubble in New York and at the Pentagon looking for fallen comrades and fellow citizens, America has seen, again and again, examples of what it is, what it can be, at its best. True leadership and unity have replaced partisanship in Washington in the dust of the terrorists’ attacks. Such political enemies as Senators Charles Schumer and Hillary Clinton of New York found themselves displaying true leadership, praising the actions of President Bush and his administration in the wake of last Tuesday’s attacks. The Democratic response to the President’s weekly radio address, usually reserved to criticize him, instead echoed our great President’s calls for solidarity and strength.

Indeed, Bush has cast away the lingering belief that his presidency is somehow illegitimate because of the election controversy. He has become, as the New York Times pointed out on Monday, “the president of the entire country.” He entered “ground zero” at the site of the former World Trade Center, in the heart of a city where he is less than popular, to the cheers of the thousands of rescue workers and rallied them, lifting morale and hope after days of terrible hardship.

The New York City firefighters, doctors, nurses, National Guardsmen, and many others who have volunteered in New York and at the Pentagon have been the heroes in the wake of last week’s devastation. They have been the greatest source of our pride and inspiration. Coming from all over the country just to do their most noble of jobs, these men and women have, in their efforts alone, made sure that the terrorists who attacked America will never win. It has been their determination that has inspired so many to put their lives on hold and volunteer. The terrorists did not count on these heroes, and it will be because of them and their inspirational efforts to aid their fellow man that America will come out, as we always do, on top in this great struggle.

No choice but to fight back

MICHAEL GALDO
Staff Writer

Despite some of my hawkish attitudes, if I truly think about it, I have always had a desire for peace. Not at all costs of course, but unless there was an identifiable threat, I always felt that even if we destroyed an enemy, the killing of innocent civilians was unnecessary. The recent attacks upon our way of life have made me rethink my views. This has nothing to do with ignorance or racism. I do not hate the individual citizens from which terrorism emanates. I do feel that their leaders are evil. They have fed propaganda for decades to anyone who will listen, calling America the “Great Satan.” What kind of institutions and leaders create such an evil passion among hundreds of thousands?

According to some accounts, Saddam Hussein may have supported the September 11 attacks, reportedly referring to them as America reaping what she sowed. As idiotic as that sounds, I expect such things from Saddam. But when I hear reports of Iraqi and Palestinian civilians rejoicing at our loss and read that a Palestinian newspaper referred to the terrorists as “the salt of the earth, the engines of history,” my head and heart ache. I can’t help myself from feeling hatred. After contemplation, however, a sense of sorrow takes the place of hatred. Sorrow that these people live in a society and under a government that teaches them such lies. Notice the word “society” along with government. One cannot simply blame the government for the opinions of its population. When hate for any people, whether it is Africans, Jews, or Americans, is the basis for a society, then its culture requires a fundamental change. Without changing these breeding grounds of hatred, attacks against our society will continue.

I do not know how America can change such institutional hatred in other nations. We are not, and cannot become, the moral enforcement agency for the rest of the world. However, when we ourselves are attacked as a result of a society and government imbued with hatred, we cannot stand silently by. We must not allow our nation, which was founded on freedom, to be rocked to its core without action. Our institutions allow us to hate or love whom we choose. They give us the freedom to remain calm and the freedom to fight back. I am not sure to what extent exactly, but as for me, I vote to fight back. To fight back not only as a sign of America’s strength and resolve to protect its own citizens, but also so that we can once again triumph in a clash between authoritarian terror and democratic freedom.

Lenny MCALLISTER
Staff Writer

Tuesday’s attack on humanityis the most penetrating and remorseful occurrence in my lifetime, certainly the most hurtful that I can recall with clarity. The karmic boomerang of life is ironic sometimes. Ten years after the beginning of Operation Desert Storm, I find myself a student at Davidson once again. I again find myself probing for answers while the United States finds itself at the brink of war. 

As a productive and peaceful member of this society (stated as such to include all law-abiding, peace-loving people within our borders that are not citizens of America), I ask the following: What are appropriate mindsets and actions at this time? What can we do to create the support to heal the immediate situation? How can we improve the overall situation?

First, I think that the most appropriate initial action must be to reflect upon the situation. This reflection must not occur solely through American eyes. The condolences expressed throughout the world show us that we must reflect upon this situation holistically. This is not just an American tragedy; it is a human tragedy. Terror, devastation, and tragedy are universal and can be overcome only through universal love, respect, and understanding. With this reflection, a righteous response to the issues that are now present in our lives must occur. Though anger and outrage are expected emotions, we must also understand that without reflection and proper response, the vessels of anger and outrage become primed for use by bigotry, blind hatred, and misguided vengeance. Our principles require that we monitor our emotions and actions with rationale, intelligence, and morality, lest we equate ourselves with terrorists around the world. Our response must be to act, think, and speak responsibly, keeping peace and order at the forefronts of our minds.

Finally, I ask, what am I required to do? It is at this question that I think back to my two stints at Davidson. Why did I choose to attend Davidson not just once, but twice? I chose this fine institution and community because it is a diverse collection of talented leaders who strive to improve the quality of life on this planet through academic exploration, enrichment, and excellence. The requirement, therefore, is to be a leader, doing what one does best to benefit America and the world. As leaders, we are asked to overcome adversity, paving the way for others to follow. As leaders, we are asked to learn and teach, engaging in a process of give-and-take that benefits our society in a multitude of ways. These new approaches may one day save lives. Despite each individual discipline of study incurred, we affirm ourselves as leaders within this global community. During this time of adversity, we are required as members of American society to lead by example. We all will be called to lead. As a united front of leaders cognizant of our roles and responsibilities, we will be able to regain stability, peace, and love within our world. With love, we conquer all.

We lost something last week that can never be regained.

CANNON HODGE
Staff Writer

Last week, our nation, our pride, and our people were raped of everything that we took for granted. I often marveled about how I could trust the person sitting next to me on an airplane. There was a clear sense of community: Everybody groans at the crying baby, jumps when the plane dips or sways, and laughs at the pilots’ corny jokes. But now, everything has changed. We cannot even trust our fellow passengers. Our country has irreparably changed because of this overwhelming trepidation. We have lost something dear.

A friend brought this harrowing thought to mind: What about those family members and friends who were waiting in a California airport? Suddenly I thought about all the times that I have met a friend at the airport. I wondered how I would react if the same had happened to one of my friends. I know that I would have fallen to the ground sobbing and not have been able to drive home. I would have cried until I had lost all of my tears and found myself hyperventilating. I would have prayed for a miracle, that the day was wiped clean and that no planes had crashed.

Truthfully, we don’t know how to react. We don’t know where to direct our anger and when to show our sadness. Now, we are all scared, scared of flying, scared of big cities and our economy, scared of how our President will react, but most of all, we are scared for our families and ourselves. We have lost a sense of trust that may never be replaced. We have lost the possibility of having a youth without national tragedy. We all feel a different kind of pain. Now we can’t run to a flight five minutes before it departs, we can’t watch a movie with the New York skyline without thinking of terrorism. We have to worry about what may happen in the next few hours, we have to call our parents every day to assure them that we are safe, we have to pray that our family members and friends who live in New York and Washington are safe, we have to trust our government to keep us safe from danger, and most important—We have to trust each other again.

Although we were not direct victims of this tragedy, we are all victims of its repercussions: The visions, the nightmares, the sudden loss of trust, and the infinite sadness.