THE DAVIDSONIAN

Patterson Court Council to hold charity parking raffle

By Emily Drew
Staff Writer

Patterson Court Council is currently selling raffle tickets for a drawing that will benefit local non-profits and result in prime
parking spots for two lucky winners. Five dollars buys one chance for the drawing, scheduled for Sept. 15 at the
Homecoming football game.

Matt Arbuckle ’02—President of PCC and a member of SAE—said that the idea developed in response to students’ frequent parking
complaints and from PCC’s desire to partake in useful community service. Through the efforts of PCC’s Community Service Chair, Shaw
Hipsher ’03, the board was able to work with Dean of Students Tom Shandley to create the framework for the
raffle.

Funds raised from ticket sales will be used to support links between Davidson College and local non-profits through grants. College
groups will eventually have the opportunity to apply for these grants, which will sponsor co-operative efforts with local alumni-founded charities.

“We want this link to bring positive attention to both Patterson Court and non-profits,” said Arbuckle, who hopes that this
attention will spur alumni contributions to both entities.

Tickets will be available through Sept. 14, and even students without cars are encouraged to participate. The Union’s Information Desk
accepts both cash and CatCard funds for ticket purchases.

Who gets the Outpost?

By Nipui Paut
Staff Writer

Up until this year, the beloved Outpost on Patterson Court served food, four nights a week, till 3am. Hungry post-partiers
or those in need of a study break could drop by for quesadillas (undoubtedly the most popular selection), pizza, grill
items, or nachos and cheese. The Outpost was open from Wednesday till Saturday, and was often the last place to
go before going to bed. The brightly painted house would always be crowded until the very last minute. It was
noisy, smoky, dim, and filled with an atmosphere that, for many, couldn’t be replicated anywhere else on campus.

Last year, the decision was made to move the late-night food service to the Alvarez Union café, and close down
the Outpost. This sparked great interest in the Outpost building and its future. Several groups were interested in acquiring it.
Two of the most visible contenders were the Davidson International Association (DIA) and Fiji, a fraternity interested in moving back
on campus. There were also strong protests at moving the food out of the Outpost, and requests that the building
not be given to any one group, but be left as an open house for anyone to use. At the
end of the year, most people still weren’t sure what the final decision was. What was going to happen to
the Outpost?

This year finds the Outpost closed for late-night snacks, but open for scheduling. None

see Outpost, page 4

SGA Weekly Agenda

General Meeting
September 6, 2001

1.0 Call to Order.......................... Joey Harris
2.0 Roll Call................................. Elder Gwin
3.0 Approval of Minutes.............. Joey Harris
4.0 Communication and Announcements........ Beth Gardner5.0 Updates
5.1 Elections Council................... Ian Willoughby
5.2 Grills................................. Joey Harris
5.3 SGA Sponsoring Homecoming................. Beth Gardner
5.4 Vamanos Van Magnets.................. Kevin Epps
5.5 Committee Appointments............... Joey Harris and Beth Gardner
5.6 SGA Retreat.......................... Bobby Pittenger

6.0 New Business
6.1 ATC Allocations...................... Adam Norris
6.2 SGA Resolutions...................... Kevin Epps
6.3 Nomination of Marshals............... Joey Harris

New organization chartered
Gray Lyons

Special Correspondent: On the evening of August 30th, Students for Life, a pro-life organization, was granted an official charter by
the Student Government Association. Paul Godfrey ‘04, the organization’s co-founder, hopes his new group will “promote the pro-life cause through
various means such as volunteering at local Crisis Pregnancy Centers, bringing speakers to the campus, supporting pro-life actions in legislative
bodies, and participating in local pro-life events.”

Bobby Pittenger ‘01 commented, “[Paul] has the ability and skill to start up any type of organization, but I am
glad he took the time to start up a Students for Life club, since we already have a pro-choice club.”
The group was created partly in reaction to the Reproductive Rights Alliance of Davidson (RRAD), the brainchild of Kristine Harrington
‘03. “When RRAD was formed last spring, the intent was not to create tension between students with different beliefs, but
rather we hoped to initiate dialogue on-campus about some very important issues,” says Harrington. “However, I must stress that RRAD
is not ‘pro-abortion’ but pro-choice, and the issues we address encompass more than the question of abortion.”

SFL met general support in the SGA; the organization was, however, disappointed that their charter was not approved unanimously. Charles
Washington ‘04, a sophomore class senator, commented, “While the view supported by [Students for Life] is not reflective of my
own, I believe that each side of this controversial subject should be equally represented in the Davidson community. Understanding that
we, as a SGA senate, unanimously approved the charter of RRAD last March, it is clear that an organization like
SFL is needed to provide the campus with complete information on the abortion issue from both positions.”

Sophomore class senator Owen Barrow ‘04 remarked, “I am glad that the SGA was able to see the benefit of
such organizations and not become soured by the issues surrounding their beliefs.” Godfrey mentioned afterward, “I was pleased with the
tone of the SGA meeting... it was good to see that many people who might not hold a pro-life position
vote in favor of granting the charter.”

Although SFL’s creation has been relatively painless so far, controversy is sure to follow. “Concerning RRAD,” Godfrey continued, “we believe
that a right to life trumps any supposed right to reproduce or not reproduce.” Philip Osborne ‘04, the organization’s treasurer
commented, “[Abortion] is morally wrong except in the rare case that the life of the pregnant woman is in danger...
as far as RRAD is concerned, they can say whatever they want to say on campus and do whatever community
service they want in the area and we shall respect their right to do so as fellow human beings.” Harrington
hopes that Students for Life will “create opportunities for active political debates, and I for one am looking forward to
the prospect of some very enlightening (and respectful) discussions.”

Gray Lyons is a SGA Independent Senator.
