One of the most important principles of journalism is to speak for those who have no voice, and to hold
the powerful accountable. As a guest lecturer, Dan Flynn had an important kind of power. At an institution of higher
learning, Mr. Flynn’s power, however, was not a unique kind. It is for this reason that my article (“Flynn crusades
against convicted ‘cop killer’”) focused mainly on the student response to Mr. Flynn’s exercise of power. It is also the
reason why the story, and indeed the first paragraph, focused on the one party in this case who had no
voice: slain Police Officer Danny Faulkner. In this case, the journalist’s guiding principle, the search for truth, happens to coincide
with Mr. Flynn’s controversial event.

During my short tenure here, I sought to capture every detail I could about student response to Mr. Flynn’s lecture.
If Ms. McKinley objected to the inclusion of some of these details—as is her right—because they were inaccurate, I can
only heartily disagree. But, if she objected to their inclusion because of their nature as provocative, then I can only
say that this is precisely how I would seek to fulfill the journalist’s search for truth. Please do not get
me wrong. I believe that the journalist has to separate fact and opinion, for the sake of integrity and responsibility.
If my article portrayed Mr. Flynn as a controversial figure, it also provided enough information to allow the reader to
determine if the controversy was warranted. By seeking out the truth fairly and honestly—whether it means that Mumia Abu-Jamal is
guilty or not—we best honor Danny Faulkner.

Now, before I go farther, I would like to make myself clear: the article was neither intentionally nor subconsciously biased.
I had neither formed an opinion about Mr. Abu-Jamal’s guilt nor was I convinced—by either side—during the course of Mr.
Flynn’s lecture. Many have complained about a perceived bias, including a perspective piece written by Erin McKinley ’01 and published
in these pages two weeks ago. I would like to address these concerns. The news writer’s job, I believe, goes
beyond listing facts or statistics and occurrences. Any good news story will also have a certain amount of analysis. To
convey the truth, the whole truth, about the news, the journalist must capture the subtly nuanced details of an event,
or an impassioned speaker. This is perhaps the journalist’s most difficult task: to balance the needs of the audience for
the subtle truth but leave the reader to form their own judgments. If I have failed in this, I apologize.

Allow me, though, to respond to some of Ms. McKinley’s comments. In my rush to capture the uproar of political
fervor caused by a controversial event, please note that I also wrote the box that ran beside the article (“Two
Sides to Every Story”) which presented a few of the arguments of both Mr. Flynn and his opposition. I also
included Mr. Flynn’s counterarguments. The facts, in effect, got both a direct and cross-examination. It is outside the purview of
my writing responsibilities, but I believe that the box should have received the same prominence as the initial news article.
(It followed the story on page 5.) In the interests of fairness and impartiality, however, the article should not have
run without perspectives from the groups that sponsored Mr. Flynn’s visit to campus. Efforts were made to get comments, but
the time restraints imposed on both a weekly college newspaper and a busy Davidson student unfortunately prevented it.

In short, I stand by both the facts presented in the article and my analysis of Flynn’s presence on campus.
My characterization of the event was honest and fact-based. However, my article may have been written in such a way
that would preclude certain readers’ viewpoints and for that, I apologize.

Brent Byars ‘04
Staff Writer

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief:
Aaron Houck, Richard Vinson
Peter Clark, David Johnston, Anna Ryan

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

Wednesday, APRIL 25, 2001

New leaders encourage reflection on Honor Code

Just before spring break, we had the good fortune of being elected Chair and Secretary of Davidson’s Honor Council. We’re
honored that the members...of the Council have placed their confidence in us, and we are thrilled to serve the College’s
great, long tradition of its Honor Code. Certainly, our first priority will be conducting hearings in a thoughtful, thorough, and
impartial manner. Our outgoing Chair and Secretary—Justin Perkinson and Lee Ann Petty—did this well; we thank them for their example.
However, beyond hearings, this year our emphasis will be on positioning the Honor Council to better fulfill its responsibility of
promoting understanding, discussion, and critical thought of the school’s Honor Code. To this end (as you see elsewhere in this
week’s edition of The Davidsonian), the Council has crafted an ambitious set of initiatives. In implementing these initiatives, the Council
is organizing into active committees and chartering a student organization to help enact these plans. We are asking every member
of the Honor Council to devote more time to their work as Honor Council members than in previous years. The
school’s Honor Code is the most sacred of its institutions; of all people, the elected members of the Honor Council
must provide the leadership to sustain its vivacity. Concurrently, we ask that you—whether student, staff, or faculty—also embrace our vision
of constant reflection about the Code. We ask that you question applications of the Honor Code in its everyday use;
we encourage open debate and the resolution of any uncertainties you may have. Above all, we ask simply that everyone
talk about the Code. The Honor Code works well here, but it will never be perfect. Davidson can get closer
to perfection if we all talk and think more about the Honor Code; we hope you’ll agree. Thank you for
your support of Davidson’s Honor Code; please let us know if you ever have questions or comments about what we’re
doing.

Will Parker ‘02, Chair of the Honor Council
Tara Davidson ‘02, Secretary of the Honor Council

Cohen’s speech misjudges perils, promises

In his well-delivered speech to a large audience in Love on April 21, William Cohen, the three-term Republican Senator from
Maine and President Clinton’s last Secretary of Defense, was long on sketching the “perils” and short on elucidating the “promises”
of a new world. He was correct in mentioning the nationalist sensitivities of Russia and China as the United States
engages them in negotiations to work out differences. At the same time, he insisted that the Hegemon’s (that’s us) military
“domination” over all lesser powers must be assured in order to protect and project America’s national interests. However, he offered
remarkably little in the way of a critique of the large and expensive weapon systems that drive the budgets and
missions of the four armed services some 12 years after the Berlin Wall came down and the Cold War ended,
and that keep the Pentagon budget at the $300 billion level. It is to the credit of the Bush Administration
that it is at least attempting, in a “bottom-up” review, to adapt the roles of the military to meet perceived
new threats before submitting to Congress a Department of Defense budget for fiscal year 2002. Alas, both the old regime
and the new continue to tout some version of a national missile defense (NMD) system. Quite simply, this is a
“field of dreams” notion—if we build it, it will work. The technology is not on the horizon. (Not to mention
the prohibitive budgetary and diplomatic costs of pursuing such a system.) There is no chance that a multilayered defense system
with a broad reach can be in place by the end of this decade. It, in fact, surpasses rocket science
in complexity. This dismal forecast also applies to the most advanced theater systems based on ships to defend against medium-range
missiles.

An ROTC cadet asked Cohen a perceptive question about NMD, drawing attention to the symbiotic relationship between offense and defense
in regard to weapons that can be delivered intercontinentally. At this point, Cohen cited “rogue states” with small missile forces
that might irrationally threaten this country in a showdown with them. (Incidentally, he misrepresented the offensive forces of Iraq, wrongly
claiming that Saddam Hussein has a few intercontinental ballistic missiles in his arsenal.) A citizen might ask, just what does
a permeable defensive net over the United States have to do with the new “weapons of mass destruction” (with no
return address) heralded by Cohen: anthrax and other forms of biological warfare for which some 120 American cities must be
prepared, let alone cyberterrorism?

William E. Jackson, Jr.
Class of 1957
