— Are we — Philosophers debate origin

By Linny BALDWIN
Staff Writer

The conflict between creationism and atheism has been a prominent moral question since the 1925 Scopes Monkey Trial. The issue still prompts emotional arguments from both sides. Thus, Chambers Gallery was standing-room only on January 25, when students, faculty, and dozens of visitors crowded in to hear “Did God Create the Universe? A Philosophical Debate.”

The debate, sponsored by the Philosophy Department, featured two prominent speakers: William Lane Craig and Quentin Smith. Dr. Craig is one of the foremost academic creationists in America. He holds a PhD from England’s Birmingham University, and a Doctorate of Theology from the University of Munich in Germany. He currently teaches at Talbot School of Theology and spoke at Davidson in 2000.

Dr. Smith, a member of Western Michigan University’s Philosophy department, holds a PhD in Philosophy from Boston College. Smith’s field of expertise is the philosophy of time and quantum cosmology; he was a guest speaker at Davidson in 1999. He and Dr. Craig collaborated on the book Theism, Atheism, and Big Bang Cosmology.

“I thought that a debate between them would be the natural follow-up to their respective earlier visits,” said philosophy professor Dr. Robert Maydole, who has used their coauthored book in seminars on proving the existence of God and atheism. “Philosophy is about ultimate questions of existence and meaning. Whether God created our world is one of the most ultimate questions.”

Before the debate began, Dr. Maydole announced that the evening’s presentation was the first in a series of planned philosophy lectures. He then laid the groundwork for the debate by discussing Stephen Hawking’s famed book A Brief History of Time, which — according to Maydole — contains both the suggestion that the universe would not need a Creator and a reference to the mind of God in its final paragraph. Maydole suggested Hawking’s book reflected a deep ambiguity most feel about the question of a Creator.

“I do not expect that we will resolve this ambiguity tonight,” he said. “Indeed, it may even deepen. And while our speakers this evening are likely to disagree about the need for a creator, I believe they both share a profound respect for human reason.”

Each speaker presented a twenty-minute opening statement, a ten-minute rebuttal, and ten minutes of closing remarks followed by a question-and-answer period. Many of the spectators likely expected a reiteration of the arguments surrounding 1999’s Kansas School Board decision not to teach evolution. Dr. Smith’s opening statement proved this assumption false. He said, “Arguments made by theists such as William Craig are unsatisfactory,” and attacked Craig’s main arguments on linguistic, logical, and philosophical grounds. Smith insisted that the atheistic explanation for the world was not only complete but left no room for a Creator. He drew a diagram on a blackboard showing “... At BC...” and said that it represented the universe at t=0. Each “thing” in this initial state, he argued, wascaused by something else in that state. Thus, having established simultaneous causation, he argued that there was nothing left for a God to do. The force of explosions, he said, forced the self-creating ABC complex into later stages that ultimately resulted in the creation of the universe. It was this argument that would prove the most discussed point in the evening’s debate. Craig insisted that Smith’s argument committed the “fallacy of composition” and asked, “Where did ABC come from?” During the question-and-answer period, Michael Newnam ’01, a Philosophy major, likened this to asking, “Where did the crowd come from?” when one knew how everyone in the crowd got there. Smith agreed with the implication, but Craig said the situation was non-analogous and proposed his own comparison. He suggested that Smith’s model was like a box closed with each flap holding down one of the other flaps, and his question to asking “Where did the box come from?”

Another key argument centered around whether the existence of intelligent life implied a creator. Craig insisted that the emergence of an unlikely creation that conforms to a specific design suggests the hand of a creator. Smith argued that the laws of nature and biology created life, and that no rational God would create conditions that made it difficult for life to emerge if that was His ultimate goal. He also wondered why Earth was so isolated in the universe if God’s goal was to create life.

A panel of philosophy majors, Newnam, Elizabeth Barnes ’04, and Daniel Gibson ’02, began the question-and-answer session. After they had asked their questions, the audience passed a microphone around and the speakers entertained questions on the existence of God as a disembodied mind, vicious infinite regress, the finite nature of life, “virtual particles,” and the possibility of a man-made Big Bang. As Maydole promised, audience members did not leave the debate feeling that the question of theism vs. atheism had been resolved. “I hope [the debate showed] that fundamental issues can be discussed rationally, even by people who disagree,” Maydole said. The night’s final question seemed to sum up the confusion many were feeling: suppose God created irrationality to prevent us from solving this mystery?

David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott

By Nicole Foreman
Health Advisor

Last Thursday, January 24, five “of-age” Davidson students willingly participated in the Impaired Olympics, a program jointly sponsored by the Campus Police and the Health Educators. The goal of the program was to show the ill effects of alcohol. The Student Health Advisors are, from left to right: Stephanie Courchesne, Rebecca Davidson, and others. After consuming Aristocrat alcohol, the participants exhibited changes in behavior and personality more rapidly than expected. Initially, after the first drink, one participant was still behaving normally. However, because the event was only an hour long, and participants were told to drink at “party-pace,” what the audience saw was a change in behavior that would typically occur at a party. I drank four...