4% heritage from around the globe

By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

Although few would doubt the importance of appreciating diversity on campus, this year’s Diversity Week programming has an even stronger significance in these times of conflict and terrorism, when people around the world are dealing with the same fears and feelings of coming together to preserve human rights.

“I, like so many others, continue to regret the fact that we need to have a Diversity Week in this country and in this community to remind us to appreciate our differences,” said President Bobby Vagt. “But I think that the week itself and the programs that have been organized are really extraordinary. I think it is too easy for those of us on the campus to blow through these events and not attend because of other things and believe that we are sufficiently thoughtful and liberated and we don’t need to attend. I think everyone should attend or participate in at least one event to make the week a success.”

The week’s programming began on Saturday, when the atrium of the Union was hung with flags from countries all over the world. The annual International Student Festival, the first event, was held in the building from noon to 3 p.m. The festival was organized by the Davidson International Organization, and featured ethnic foods from around the world, performances of traditional dance and music, and countless booths describing aspects of international cultures, like acupuncture and language. Just a few of the countries represented included Spain, Mexico, China, India, and Bosnia.

Kim Gardner ’03 attended the festival and said the event seemed “really successful” and it was the “most involvement” from the student body and the community that she’s seen.

Diversity Week lasts until Friday, and already more exciting and interesting events are planned. On Sunday, the film "Life is Beautiful," directed by Roberto Benigni, about a family in a concentration camp in Italy, was shown at 9:30 p.m.

Tonight, a dramatic presentation will take place at 9 p.m. in the Gallery of Chambers. The presentation is called “Tunnel of Oppression: Walk a Moment in My Shoes,” and will focus on challenging people’s ways of thinking about and dealing with issues of oppression and hatred.

On Thursday, several events will take place. A step show will be held at 5 p.m. in the College Union Amphitheater and later at 7:30 p.m. in the Smith 900 Room, Pulitzer Prize-winning historian David Levering Lewis will present a lecture entitled “W.E.B. DuBois and American Exceptionalism.” Joe Martin, from the Holistic Center for Instruction, held a tai chi workshop in the Smith 900 Room on Monday. Also on Monday, a presentation about living with AIDS entitled “A Boy, A Girl, A Virus and the Relationship that Happened Anyway” was presented in the Gallery Room of the Chambers Building.

On Tuesday, Floyd Cochran presented a lecture on racial hate movements entitled “Inside the Racist Movement: The Tactics of Hate from a Former Believer.” He laid out the reasoning and methods of such movements and talked of suggestions in dealing with such threats to diverse communities.

President Bobby Vagt won the Pulitzer Prize for his book "W.E.B. DuBois: Biography of a Race." He currently holds the position of Martin Luther King Jr. Professor of History at Rutgers University. (For more on Dr. Lewis’ lecture, please see article, page 2.)

The culminating event on Friday at 7 p.m. will be...p.m. will be a fashion and cultural show sponsored by the African Student Association, Black Student Coalition, and Cultural Theme Hall, held in the atrium of the Union. Vagt summed up the significance of the week’s programming, saying, “If ever there were a time that we needed to celebrate not only that which is different but celebrate also the respect with which we look at those differences, now’s the time.”

Pulitzer winner to give Kelley lecture
By Linny BALDWIN
News Editor

The History department’s Kelley Program has brought many prominent historians to Davidson’s campus; past guests have included Princeton’s James McPherson and UNC-Chapel Hill’s William Leuchtenberg. Even among this distinguished group, however, this year’s Kelley Lecturer, David Levering Lewis, is a standout.

Lewis, currently the Martin Luther King Jr. Professor of History at Rutgers University, is a two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize for biography. He was awarded the prize in 1994 and again this year for his two-part work on the life of W.E.B. Du Bois, one of the most influential figures in 20th-century American history. Du Bois, the founder of the NAACP, is considered the premier architect of the Civil Rights movement; he was also a historian, novelist, editor, and sociologist.

Lewis’ two volumes, entitled W.E.B. Du Bois: Biography of a Race and W.E.B. Du Bois: The Fight for Equality and the American Century 1919-1963, are a major reworking of both Du Bois’ life and the history of the movement with which he is associated. The Washington Post has called the completed work “a dazzling feat of scholarship performed with Lewis’s customary grace of style.”

“As a winner of a Pulitzer Prize for his biography of W.E.B. Du Bois, Dr. Lewis brings unusual stature to the lecture series and to the campus,” said Dr. Earl Edmondson, the current chair of the History department. According to Edmondson, “once each semester the Department of History invites a noted historian to visit the campus under the auspices of the Kendrick K. Kelley Program in Historical Studies,” the same program that supports the honors-level Kelley Seminar. “The overall goal of the series is to enrich the intellectual life of the College. We hope that each lecture will heighten interest in the debates that the study of history engenders.”

Dr. Bob Williams, the director of the Kelley Program, was equally enthusiastic. “[Dr. Lewis] will set the tone for a series of outstanding Kelley Program lectures this year and next.” In addition to the two Pulitzers, Lewis has also received a MacArthur “genius grant” to fund his work on Du Bois. Despite these honors, however, in an interview Lewis attributed the attention to Du Bois’ importance rather than his own skill. “What means the most to me is that this person’s long life, the battles he fought and principles for which he stood, are getting the attention they so eminently deserve,” said Lewis.

Lewis holds a Ph.D. in modern European and French history from the London School of Economics, an M.A. in United States history from Columbia University, and a bachelor’s degree in history and philosophy from Fisk University. In addition to his work on Du Bois, he has written several other acclaimed books, including King: A Biography, When Harlem Was in Vogue, and The Race to Fashoda: European Colonialism and African Resistance in the Scramble for Africa.

Lewis’ lecture, entitled “W.E.B. Du Bois and American Exceptionalism,” will be presented on Thursday, November 1 as part of Davidson’s “Diversity Week.” The talk begins at 7:30 in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room.