THE Davidsonian

Campus Response, from page 1

Though the campus has dealt with tragedy before—most recently the deaths of three Davidson students in a span of six
months during 1999, as well as the loss of professor Sandy Kemp in early 2000—the sweeping nature of this week’s
events has been unparalleled.

“Any time we have a tragic event, we’re prepared to react. Usually, that’s the case of a death of a
student or other campus community member,” described Shandley. “This is nothing like that. This affects all of us in one
way or another.”

Given the tendency for accusatory speculation after tragedies such as this, another (though distant) concern of the student life division
is the manner in which students might react to information about the identity of the terrorists responsible for this act.
“Terrorist acts are aimed at destroying the fabric of a community,” Shandley said. “It is so important for all of
us to recognize that and refuse to let it happen. If ever there was a time for us to come
together, it is now.”

Chaplain Rob Spach echoed those sentiments. “Regardless of who turns out to be responsible for this, or whatever their goals
or political-religious motivations, the reality is that this tragedy will cut across all ethnic, religious, and national classifications. We must
respond by coming together—every one of us can move together and affirm that life is precious.”

Spach, in conjunction with the PES, organized a Tuesday night community gathering. “It’s important for the community to have a
chance to get together,” Spach said. The gathering—designed to be “inclusive toward all students” regardless of religious faith—was set to
include addresses from professors Ken Menkhaus and William Mahony.

Similarly, the Residence Life Office is mobilizing its student and professional employees to address concerns and needs of students on
campus. “We’re asking our staff to check in with as many students as possible, hoping to ascertain how many students
will be tied directly to someone who may have been injured,” said Leslie Urban, Associate Director of Residence Life. “Thankfully,
the reports we’ve been receiving so far have been positive—more and more students are getting word that loved ones have
escaped harm.”

Another area of concern has been the nationwide shut-down of air travel. “We’re currently working in conjunction with the Dean
of Students office to help arrange alternate modes of transportation for students who need to get home,” Urban explained. “There
are students who need to get home for family issues or funerals unrelated to the events of Tuesday, so we
need to find them cars, buses or trains that can help get them there.”

Academics

Class schedules carried on uninterrupted this week. “We plan to continue having classes so long as such classes would not
interfere with the safety or well-being of this community,” described Dr. Clark Ross, Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Dean of
the Faculty. “These terrorist acts are meant to disrupt life, so it’s important for us to get on with our
usual events as best as possible, all the while being sensitive to individual situations facing students and other members of
the campus community.”community members.” - Counseling Center

Dr. David Staton, director of the Student Counseling Center, spent much of Tuesday morning in the sitting area of the
College Union. “We’ve all been trying to get out and be visible for the students,” said Staton. “We want them
to know that we’re here if they need something.” Typically, Staton described, students do not utilize the counseling center in
the immediate aftermath of a tragedy or emergency—but rather in the months and years after such an event. “Immediately, students
usually go to friends and family members in the wake of a tragedy. But sometimes it’s six months down the
road that they come to us.”

Dr. Dewitt Crosby, a counselor at the center, was initially drafted into service at Charlotte-Douglas Airport as part of an
emergency task-force of counselors in the Charlotte area. But Crosby remained on campus, along with the rest of the counseling
staff, to field student concerns.

Athletics

For both logistical and sensitivity reasons, certain athletic events were already canceled and more stand to face postponement. Wofford University
postponed Tuesday’s volleyball match against Davidson just minutes before the Southern Conference intervened, canceling all athletic competitions on Tuesday. According
to Sports Information, the Southern Conference and NCAA were considering canceling further competitions later in the week. “The games themselves
are insignificant in the face of what has happened,” said Cedric Dempsey, NCAA president. “Our focus is entirely on the
safety of student-athletes, athletics personnel, and fans. We urge schools to make sound decisions about proceeding with contests today and
in the coming days.” Even if schools and conferences decided against canceling match-ups for emotional reasons, the nationwide air travel
shutdown threatened to interfere with other athletic events across the states. In the near future, the only Davidson competition involving
air travel is Saturday’s homecoming game—Drake University’s football team was planning to travel by airplane from Indiana. The status of
that game awaits disposition.

Study Abroad Office

Study Abroad Coordinator Carolyn Ortmayer reported that 128 Davidson students are currently studying abroad. The office was only directly in
touch with students on Davidson programs—namely ten in Germany and ten more in France. But 108 other students remain scattered
across the globe, including one, Andrew McKain, spending the year at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. According to Ortmayer, McKain was
the only one believed to be studying in a potential region of concern, but she expanded, “Still, we’re thinking of
all of them. We'd advise students—and Americans anywhere abroad—to lie low and not bring undue attention to themselves.” As for
McKain and other students traveling through the Mid-East, “Security measures have already been at a peak in Israel,” described Ortmayer.
“Still, they’ll certainly need to exercise great caution.”

Receive A 5% Discount With A Valid Davidson College ID

FULL LINE OF FOREIGN & AMERICAN AUTOS: Quality Repair By People Who Care!!!

MICHELIN
