Sophomore Bill Neville directs production of Vagina Monologues

By LAURA PUCKETT
Special Contributor

Cunt. Coochie-snorter. Vagina. These are not words heard in the daily conversations at Davidson. But on February 16, 18, and
19 the sound of vaginas did not only underlie the hum of small talk, but it resounded from the walls
of Love Auditorium.

This buzz was the result of the Vagina Monologues, a play by Eve Ensler. The Vagina Monologues, directed by sophomore
Bill Neville, were performed at Davidson as part of a 2001 College Initiative.

Nearly 250 colleges and universities across the world participated in this effort to spread the Monologues and their message. They
were also performed this year in Madison Square Garden in New York City on February 10, where 18,000 women attended
to hear the likes of Oprah Winfrey and Glenn Close perform.

Here at Davidson they were performed by a different cast each night, fifteen to eighteen women, staff and students, dressed
in black with red boas, bringing their stories, energy, and compassion to each piece that was read.

The Vagina Monologues are the visible, marketable sign of a greater movement called V-Day. V-Day is technically Valentine’s Day, but
the fourteenth of February simply serves as a marker around which all the energy of the movement can be focused.

It is a movement to stop rape, childhood sexual abuse, battery, and genital mutilation against women. It is a movement
to celebrate women’s bodies, to talk about them in full voice and enriching terms. It is a movement to recognize
all the varied experiences women have within themselves and with the world.

V-Day demands the opportunity for safe and creative growth, not shame and recovery. It raises money for local organizations working
to stop sexual violence against women. It raises awareness, the catalyst by which change can start.

Bill Neville brought the monologues to Davidson this year after working at the New York Stage and Film’s summer residency
program at Vassar College. He was assistant director for three plays directed by Michael Greif (of RENT fame). While he
was there he met and got to see Eve Ensler at work as she workshopped her newest play Necessary Objects.

For Neville, the play provided a “constructive, unintimidating way to shed light on the violence against women.” It was a
way to unite the Davidson community for the safety of women here, but to also be part of a national
effort that depends upon each individual school. The V-Day College Initiative is headed up by Karen Oble, who took Ensler’s
V-Day brainchild and saw it as a powerful mission at a collegiate level.

This idea of unity is present throughout the production. There were three different casts for three different nights so that
inclusion was emphasized. This way many people could contribute, and at whatever level they were comfortable; be it saying one
line to performing a whole piece. Neville’s purpose was not a “well-crafted theatrical production” but rather instigating a force and
awareness.

This integrating vision of the Monologues was reflected in the composition. There were monologues that covered many spectrums, including age,
race, and sexual orientation. They addressed coming of age, pleasure, and violence. They were diverse so that people of all
types could relate, and the message would be that much more personal.

Neville and many others hope that V-Day will be an annual tradition at Davidson. The performers this year reveled in
their experience, and more than one audience member left feeling proud of her vagina. There were 400 to 900 people
at the shows each night, and that was only at our one college.

As the director’s notes in the program state, “The dream of a world without violence has survived, endured, and become
an unstoppable driving force throughout the world. . . . This is only the beginning. . . . The world
is changing.”

Top: Kristine Grayson ‘03 and Laura Waddle ‘01 perform in Love.

Left: From left to right, Ilda Wainschel ‘01, Lauren Baird ‘01, and Alex Obregon ‘00 present their monologue.

The Davidson cast of Vagina Monologues included more than forty students, alumnae, faculty, and staff. They performed for three nights
to raise money for local efforts to stop violence against women.
