: Online forum may help SGA sense administration gauge student opinion

By RICHARD VIGIL
Editor-in-chief

After the success of internet voting, the SGA is pushing for greater use of technology in assessing student opinions.

Soon Davidson students may be able to discuss their concerns publicly in the context of an “online forum.” This forum will be open to all students, faculty, and administrators.

Student leaders hope this will not only facilitate dialogue within the student body but will also give the SGA and the administration a better sense of which issues are important to students.

Sophomore Senator Kevin Epps explained the details of this resolution, passed by the SGA Senate at their January 23 meeting. All members of the campus community will have access to a public folder on the email server entitled “Student Concerns.” Included in the folder will be a number of subfolders pertaining to specific issues.

Anyone will be able to post comments to these folders, including faculty and administrators. Likewise, anyone can view and respond to the opinions expressed within that context.

Though the intent is for these comments to carry the names of their authors, Epps indicated that there is the possibility of “making some notes anonymous if they need to be.”

This concept originated in the public forum on streaking held last semester. “One student felt that there was no way for the campus to communicate ideas to the administration,” Epps recalled. In response to this, he and Junior Class President Bobby Pittenger spoke with ITS Director Dr. John Casey during the planning phases for internet voting.

“We asked how hard it would be to create a public folder for comments,” Epps noted. Casey indicated to them that it would be relatively easy.

Epps believes the responsibility for monitoring the online forum and reporting back to the SGA Senate should fall to the SGA Vice President.

SGA President Joey Harris ‘02 agreed with that idea. As a former SGA Vice President, he found that communications and announcements constituted a large part of his responsibilities, perhaps second in importance behind managing the various committees. Harris asserted that monitoring an online forum “would fit right in with communication and announcements... That’s a responsibility I could have handled easily.”

In addition, Epps envisions that the administration will want to check the folder “if not every day, then at least every week.”

Though Epps emphasized that the online forum is still “experimental,” he holds high hopes for its success. In particular, he sees the potential for more actual community forums if the “virtual” variety produces more topics of interest. The public folder would then serve to augment productive face-to-face discussion.

“I want to use this folder to springboard to more forums, not to supplant forums,” he remarked.

Though he could not give an exact date, Epps expects that the folder will be available before Spring Break.

“If used wisely, it could be a good thing for communication at Davidson College.”

SUMMER UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH PROGRAM IN Cell and Molecular Physiology

Rising juniors and seniors can spend the summer at Carolina in a faculty lab working on an independent research project. Study the molecular basis of cancer, cystic fibrosis, heart disease, schizophrenia, and muscular dystrophy as you consider options for careers and graduate school.

$2750 stipend, housing and meals for 10-week program, May 29 - August 3, 2001
Applications due March 1, 2001

Contact Anthony LaMantia (919) 966-1290

Information and applications on the web www.med.unc.edu/physiolo/

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Got an idea for a community service project? Need some cash to get it started?

The Bonner Community Fund may be able to help you out...

WHAT IS IT? The Bonner Community Fund is a grant worth up to $4000 designated to help new community service projects get off the ground.

WHAT DO I HAVE TO DO? Pick up a grant application from the Union basement, write up a proposal of how the funds would be used, and you could receive the money you need to get your project running.

HOW MUCH TIME DO I HAVE? Written proposals to the fund committee will be due by 5 pm on Feb 9 in the Union Basement.

Contact Isha x5015 (isahsan) with questions.