Senior captains serve it up one last time

By Whitney Boykin
Staff Writer

Three senior captains of the men’s tennis team, Whit Hansen, Billy Boykin, and Chad Phillips, wrapped up their Davidson careers on Senior Day Tuesday against Charlotte.

Whit Hansen, the team’s No. 1 player from Hilton Head, S.C., plans on moving to Hollywood after graduation and possibly trying his hand in the film industry. A tennis player since he was a young child, Hansen has occupied one of the top six positions on the team since his freshman year. His career has been filled with frequent point penalties for swearing. He is one of the leaders in the NCAA in this category. He uses his loud manner of playing to pump up himself, his team, and to “get into his opponents' head, and mess it up.” His playing style has earned him the nickname “Nasty.” Teammates say Hansen reminds them of his playing idol, John McEnroe. Teammate Chad Phillips said he “enjoys playing next to Whit because I can feed off his energy and play better.”

Senior captain Billy Boykin is a local boy from the town of Davidson. He enjoys living close to home because his family can watch his matches. Boykin has been playing tennis for so long that he could not even pinpoint the starting date, and during his junior year he was ranked No. 1 in North Carolina for a time. Boykin is noted for his amicable personality and blinding speed. A UNC Asheville opponent said after losing to Boykin that he has “never been beaten by a nicer guy.” Boykin could not recall ever having a most embarrassing moment on the court, but Hansen recalled the time Boykin threw his racket into the net at the prestigious Rolex Tournament.

The team’s third captain is senior Chad Phillips, a native of Mandeville, Louisiana. Phillips is known to his teammates as “Dewey,” a nickname he got because of an alleged resemblance to a sheriff's deputy in the movie Scream. Phillips did not earn a spot in the line-up until his junior season, when he played at No. 6. This year, he’s at No. 4. Phillips has one of the most feared forehands in the conference. His net game has also become a strong weapon. Off the court, Phillips has been a leader at Davidson, serving as president of the Patterson Court Council, which supervises the school’s fraternities and eating houses. After Davidson, Chad hopes to work for Bank of America in Charlotte.

Men’s tennis team member Matt Peters contributed to this article.

Erin Berry

Blair Easton

Knobloch Campus Center will offer more workout options

3,200-square foot fitness center will combine strength, weight, and cardiovascular training

By Zeb Kelley
Staff Writer

Along with many other long-awaited amenities, the Nisbit Fitness Center will soon open its doors when the Knobloch Campus Center is completed next month. Although many expected a new weight room, the center was designed to be appealing to all students, not just athletes. Mike Goode, responsible for the creation...and design of Nisbit, said the center is primarily for “fitness as opposed to athletic” training. It will occupy 3,200 square feet on the second floor of Knobloch, on what used to be the floor of Johnston Gym. A glass wall on one side will offer a view of the two-story climbing wall built for Davidson Outdoors. The center will contain many windows, providing natural light. In addition, the ductwork will be exposed, leaving more room above. It will be divided into two main areas: strength and cardiovascular training.

The strength training area will contain 20 pieces of Cybex equipment. Many of the pieces will be familiar from the top level of Baker Sports Complex, similar to the current Nautilus machines. The cardiovascular section of the center will include an array of devices, including five treadmills, three elliptical trainers, two stair-steppers, two rowing machines, two upright and three recumbent bicycles, and a dumbbell rack. There will also be a new step-mill machine holding a revolving staircase. Goode says it can be used by D.O. for hiking preparation.

The center will also contain five televisions and a stereo system. The TVs will be equipped with FM radio, allowing students to watch TV and listen with their personal radios. A towel service and a student-run desk will also be provided. Rubber flooring will absorb sweat and quiet the noise level. There will be locker rooms with 20 lockers each and full shower facilities. The center will be open at more flexible hours than Baker, and Goode hopes to be able to “take advantage of card-reader system” to allow for late-night workouts. Goode says that there may also be a “buddy system” for allowing students and faculty to work out during off-hours.

The center will not be run by fitness experts like that of Baker’s weight room, but Goode says it would be nice to get “students with experience” to work the desk. Due to the lack of supervision, Goode “stayed away from plate-loaded equipment.” Goode planned out the center extensively. “I contacted lots of campus centers around the country of colleges like Davidson,” including Furman, Rhodes, and Wake Forest, he said. A committee of three student-athletes and three faculty members gave advice on the design and contents of the center. Students also tested the equipment. Senior Jeff Bender, a student advisor and member of the wrestling team, said he worked out on equipment at area gyms, “We physically tried them out,” he said. “I went to my local gym and other people went to the YMCA.”

“We tried to structure it in a socially friendly way,” he said, adding that it is appealing even “if you don’t lift a lot of weights,” or want to use it “for a study break.” “This is a student union,” he said, “Not a student-athlete union.”

Randy Skattum/davidso

Final Stages. The $30 million renovation of Johnston Gym, which includes the construction of a state-of-the-art performance hall, completely reconfigured an old gym into the Knobloch Campus Center, a place officials hope will become a bustling center of student activity. Knobloch will include an enlarged fitness center for aerobic workouts and strength training.