DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 2

Not so far away

Terrorist attacks in New York, Washington leave the Davidson community fearing for the welfare of family, friends, and alumni

Davidson students respond to the tragedy

By Caroline Hauser
Sports Editor

Tuesday morning, Davidson students awoke to phone calls, e-mails, and CNN as terrorist attacks unfolded around the country.

The diversity of the student body, so often cited in admissions publications, was evident as frantic students called around the country, checking on friends and family members. According to data from the Registrar’s office, more than 50 Davidson students are from the affected cities; all anxiously awaited news throughout the day.

Groups of students, staff, and faculty gathered around televisions in lounges, Chambers Building, and the Alvarez College Union, some crying as they watched the World Trade Center towers fall. The rapid succession of news bulletins, reporting downed or hijacked planes in Washington, DC and New York, were met with disbelief and anguish. Cell phone batteries ran low, and phone lines and computer networks clogged with efforts to disseminate information.

Henry Briffel ’02 of New York City managed to contact his parents. “My dad was standing across the (East Hudson) river, a quarter mile from the towers, when they fell. He said it was the scariest thing he ever saw.” Briffel relays his father’s account, “You couldn’t see or breathe for the vaporized

see Students, page 4

The U.S. flag flew at half-mast on Tuesday afternoon, hours after terrorist attacks on New York and Washington D.C.

Bill Giduz/College Communications

Students gather around the television in the Alvarez College Union throughout the day Tuesday, following the terrorism crisis as it unfolded in New York City and Washington, D.C.

School enacts emergency management plan

By Mike Anderson
Editor Emeritus

Hundreds of miles from the nearest explosion, and seemingly worlds away from the New York epicenter of Tuesday’s horror, the Davidson community held its breath this week. With every trickle of relief—a reassuring e-mail from a student, friend, or loved one—lingered the ghastly likelihood that this community and campus family would be touched by the tragedy.

When the news hit on Tuesday morning, President Bobby Vagt set into motion an oft-rehearsed and carefully-orchestrated action plan to manage such a potential crisis. Campus leaders from the Dean of Students’ office, Residence Life Office, the chaplain’s office, and the counseling center prayed for the best while preparing for the worst.

President Vagt convened a meeting of the Principal Executive Staff (PES)—eight top-level staffers including Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross—Tuesday morning at 11:30 AM to coordinate strategies for managing the crisis.

Alvarez Dedication Cancelled

In the wake of Tuesday’s attacks, President Bobby Vagt postponed Thursday night’s celebratory dedication of the Alvarez College Union. Vagt reportedly conversed with Carlos E. Alvarez, benefactor of the Union who was planning to attend Thursday’s ceremony, who concurred with the decision. Given the potential that community members might be struck with news of a loved one’s death or injury over the coming days, coupled with the attacks’ crippling effect on air travel (Alvarez, who lives in Texas, and others were planning to attend the event), Vagt postponed the celebration indefinitely. “This isn’t the time to be focusing on celebration,” said Dean Shandley. “We want to do that at a time when this entire community can truly feel comfortable engaging in such a celebration.”

Dean of Students & Student Life

As of press time, there were no reported deaths or injuries of Davidson students, alumni, or immediate family members. Still, given the thousands of potential victims in this case, many fear that the Davidson community seems unlikely to emerge unscathed.

“The Dean of Students’ office is going to serve as a processing center for that type of information,” said a somber but resilient Shandley. “The uncertainty involved in this type of thing is as difficult as anything. We’re in a period of wait-and-see—this is a terrible place to be.”

see Campus Response, page 5

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-5
Arts & Living 6
Perspectives 7-8
Sports 9-12