‘The Davidsonian
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 14, 2001

Defensive heroics lift Wildcats over Austin Peay

By Jackie Davidson
Staff Writer

With starters Paul Nichols and John Leverett sidelined with knee injuries, Davidson (5-4) looked to senior Ward Gibson to supply
the winning touch. Ultimately, however, it was Sam Fraundorf and the Wildcat defense that secured the victory. In another offensively
sloppy game, characterized by numerous turnovers, the Davidson defense came up big, tallying three sacks and forcing five turnovers en
route to a 17-12 victory over Austin Peay State University (3-7).

The defense was summoned early when, seconds into the contest, senior Mike Tarver fumbled the opening kickoff return in Davidson
territory. The stingy Wildcat defense valiantly protected the goal line, preventing the APSU offense from reaching the endzone and forcing
the Governors to settle for a 28-yard field goal.

Another Davidson turnover meant another workout for the defense when Austin Peay defensive back Corey Phillips picked off Andrew Pickens
on the Davidson 36-yard line. Once more, the Wildcat defense shut down the opposing offense, limiting the Governors to another
field goal.

The Wildcat offense finally got in gear early in the second quarter, marching 66 yards for the game’s first touchdown.
The drive featured freshman tight end Chris Caison, who finished the game with five receptions for 50 yards, including a
one-yard pass from Pickens for the score.

Caison’s reception remained the lone touchdown of the half, giving the Wildcats a 10-6 lead going into the locker room.

In the second half, the Davidson defense continued to make all the right plays, forcing five Governor turnovers, one of
which resulted in Wildcat points. Davidson linebacker Darryl Childers tipped a pass by Austin Peay quarterback Matt Schmitz to cornerback
Mo Idlibi who went 25 yards for the score to give the ’Cats a 17-6 lead.

Austin Peay rallied early in the fourth quarter behind wide receiver Ron Blair, who caught a 59-yard pass from Schmitz,
which set up his 39-yard touchdown reception. This pulled the Governors within 5.

Late in the fourth quarter, with APSU still trailing by five, Blair was given the chance to be a hero.
Davidson senior Sam Fraundorf rejected the idea.

On fourth down, Schmitz went to Blair once again, but Fraundorf leveled Blair with a monstrous hit, preventing him from
catching the ball and preserving the Wildcat victory.

The majority of the ’Cats’ 169 yards were courtesy of Gibson, who, in a most fitting ending to his Davidson
career, finished the game with 128 total yards—110 rushing and 18 receiving—and accounted for more than 75 percent of Davidson’s
total offense.

With the victory, the 'Cats marked their fourth consecutive winning season. The class of 2002 concluded its four years with
31 victories, including the undefeated 2000 season, to become the most winning class in Wildcat history.

Matt Monson

Jim Carney ’03 aided a strong defensive effort that registered three sacks and forced five turnovers in the ’Cats final
game of 2001.

Raleigh Robinson ’05 forces an Austin Peay fumble during last Saturday’s 17-12 victory over the Governors. The season finale capped
the Wildcats’ fourth straight winning season.

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear—not absence of fear.”
—Mark Twain

Men’s BASKETBALL
Nov. 16 @ Charlotte 8:05
Nov. 20 @ North Carolina 7:00
Nov. 23 Oglethorpe 7:00

Women’s BASKETBALL
Nov. 16-17 Military Academy Tournament (West Point, NY)
Nov. 21 Jacksonville 4:00
Nov. 24-25 Ronald McDonald Classic (Durham, NC)
Nov. 27 College of Charleston

SWIMMING
Nov. 17 William & Mary 1:00

WRESTLING
Nov. 17 Old Dominion Tournament (Norfolk, VA)
Nov. 24 Carolina Open (Chapel Hill, NC)

VOLLEYBALL
Nov. 16-18 Southern Conf. Tournament (Greensboro, NC)
