___

Wednesday, May 2, 2001

Croquet team places fourth in national tournament

Four-man team competes against country’s top-ranked players

By George Miars
Croquet Correspondent

The Davidson croquet team broke into the national spotlight this past weekend with a trip to the National Collegiate Croquet Championship at the Marion Cricket and Croquet Club in Haverford, Penn. In their first appearance in the event, the team of George Miars, Will Fortune, Tim Boswell, and Ed Bonapfel registered a fourth-place finish. Davidson fielded two teams whose combined victories enabled them to place so well in the competition. With impressive victories over such powerhouses as William and Mary and Smith College, the squad felt great about their performance.

“Those girls had it coming, so we stepped up our game to give it to them,” said senior co-captain Tim Boswell on Davidson’s large lead in the final standings over Smith College.

“I was a little intimidated,” said senior co-captain George Miars, referring to the opportunity to play the top-ranked player in the country. “But then I realized it is just croquet.”

Though just a game of croquet, the Davidson team of seniors Will Fortune and George Miars managed to score twice against one of the best players in the world, Jacques Fournier from Virginia. Davidson finished surprisingly well against nationally-ranked competition.

“I’m just happy to be here,” said junior Ed Bonapfel, reflecting on the chance to compete against some of the country’s greatest players.

And the team was lucky to be there, indeed. Thanks to the support of Coach William Brown and outside supporters from around the Davidson area, the team was able to gain a spot in this prestigious national event, to which Davidson sent an eight-man squad. The Wildcats who represented Davidson at the National Collegiate Croquet Championship (L to R): Ed Bonapfel, Will Fortune, George Miars, and Tim Boswell.

Unlike the typical backyard croquet match that most people are used to, this event featured the format called Croquet Golf. In this version of the game, two teams of two people each compete for the most wickets. Though a new format for the Davidson squad, the team adapted quickly in the tournament. The team is looking forward to next season, when it hopes its experience will pay off in an even better finish.

“Although croquet is a rather young sport, its ancestry can be traced at least to the 14th century, and there are a couple of stories about how it originated. One is that lawn bowlers developed an indoor form of their sport to be played during the winter, adding hoops and mallets to make the game more challenging on the much smaller playing area. This indoor version of lawn bowling then moved back outdoors and became known in France as paille-maille (“ball-mallet”). The other is that paille-maille was originally a form of outdoor billiards. However, judging by what scanty documentation there is, billiards seems to have come along about a century later. It's quite possible that the movement went the other way—that paille-maille moved indoors and became billiards.”In any event, the sport existed for several centuries without becoming particularly popular. Scottish golfers seem to have taken it up, possibly as a kind of practice, during the 16th century and, when James VI of Scotland became James I of England in 1604, he brought paille-maille equipment as well as golf clubs to his new court. Played during the 17th century by Charles II and his courtiers at St. James's Park in London, the name of the game was anglicized to Pall Mall, which also became the name of a nearby street. “Mall” then turned into a generic word for any street used for public strolls. And now, of course, it usually refers to an enclosed area where people stroll from store to store.

During the 1830s, a French doctor developed a new version of the sport as a form of outdoor exercise for his patients. He named it “croquet,” from the French word for a crooked stick, and it was widely played at spas in the South of France. English visitors discovered it there and brought it back to their country. Routlege's Handbook of Croquet, published in England in 1861, inspired a wave of popularity that swept right across the Atlantic. Croquet equipment was advertised in the New York Clipper in 1862 and five years later another New York paper editorialized, “Never in the history of outdoor sports in this country had any game achieved so sudden a popularity with both sexes, but especially with the ladies, as Croquet has.” The National Croquet Association (NCA), founded in 1879, held its first national tournament in 1882.

While English lawn croquet was played at scattered locations, an American form of croquet had also evolved into a very different game from the rather sedate English version. It was played on a court of hard-packed dirt, with hard rubber balls, very narrow wickets, and short mallets. The court was enclosed by a wooden barricade to keep the lively balls on the field of play. In 1899, a new set of rules was standardized for the American version, which was given a new name: Roque, formed by clipping the first and last letters from “croquet.” Like billiards and unlike lawn croquet, roque requires skill in making carom shots off the boundary board and in the use of English to change the path of the shot. During the early part of the century, roque became the dominant form of the sport. A new governing body, the American Roque League, was founded in 1916, while the NCA became dormant for many years.

Lawn croquet made something of a comeback during the 1920s, at least among wealthy people playing on large, well-leveled lawns at estates on Long Island and in Hollywood, the two major hotbeds. Croquet was frequently mentioned in Broadway and movie gossip columns because of the names involved. Among its well-known players were Harpo Marx, George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart of Broadway fame, Hollywood producers Sam Goldwyn, Howard Hawks, and Darryl Zanuck, and composer Richard Rodgers—all of whom, not so incidentally, are now in the Croquet Hall of Fame.

After World War II, croquet achieved a different kind of popularity as a middle-class backyard game for all ages, often played under rules invented on the spur of the moment. This new popularity led to the reorganization of the NCA and a new standardization of rules—although that standardization didn't necessarily reach into most of those middle-class backyards.

—HICKOKSPORTS.COM
www.hickoksports.com/history/croquet.shtml