Democracy at Davidson just received a shot in the arm. Thanks to the combined efforts of students and staff, voting for student officials has never been easier. Earlier this week, the Student Government Association (SGA) and Information Technology Services (ITS) announced that from now on, the internet will be utilized to conduct elections on campus. Students will no longer have to wait in line and fill out Scantron sheets in Vail Commons and Chambers. Instead, they will be able to voice their opinions from the comfort of their own rooms or from the nearest computer lab. Using simply their identification numbers, students can access a secure website that displays the electronic ballot. Voting and tallying are instantaneous, dramatically reducing the likelihood of human error. The system even includes provisions against voting for too many candidates and allows the voter to retract any errant mouse clicks.

As if the catastrophe that was the 2000 election wasn’t enough, partisan feuding has continued its cruel reign over American political life. Now it has emerged in the form of controversy surrounding discussion of Bush’s choices for Secretary of Labor, Linda Chavez, Attorney General, John Ashcroft, and Secretary of the Interior, Gale Norton. Each endured the scathing personal attacks that characterize these strictly partisan disputes. More dangerous, however, are the attempts by extreme elements on both sides to hijack public opinion. Certainly, every citizen is entitled to his or her own opinion, and a particular position is no less legitimate because of where it falls on the political spectrum. But when participants divert attention from some critical facts, the intended purpose of political discourse is lost and replaced by vitriolic diatribes. The opposing groups, in trying to portray their own positions in the best possible light, each work to monopolize the flow of information.

For the average American, it is impractical to know all the political beliefs and past actions of a particular nominee—that is why Cabinet appointments are left up to the President and to the Senate. The public trusts the elected officials to make responsible decisions and to govern in a way that protects the interest of the population. At this point, interested parties swoop in and tell us that we should care and feed us information regarding their particular target. “Did you know that appointee X once said this in a speech before Smallville Town Council???” Who cares? Where is the rest of the relevant information that shows that an appointee has been a dedicated and responsible public servant for the past twenty years? Why do the interest groups refuse to tell us about the proposals that worked? What is gained from this childish finger-pointing? Are the interests of the public served?

To those who participate in and perpetuate this absurd competition, politics is a zero-sum game. What they fail to see, however, is that the other players include not only the “other side,” but real American people—the midwestern farmer, the small-town doctor, and the retired Air Force colonel—who don’t care about partisan battles. Most would only like to hear the whole story told and to see their leaders making a genuine attempt to compromise. And until that happens, the “politics of personal destruction” will continue to take its toll on the careers of qualified Cabinet hopefuls and on the psyche of the American people.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck, Editors-in-chief

The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief: Aaron Houck, Richard Vinson
Peter Clark, David Johnston

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

The Davidsonian
Thursday, January 25, 2001

Statistics can be misleading

Lindy Baldwin’s article on Little Library, which offered a statistical comparison to the libraries of peer institutions, mentions that with 270 electronic periodical subscriptions (excluding NC LIVE), Little places in the bottom quartile for that category. The good news, though, is that NC LIVE complements our holdings with “online access to complete articles from over 5,500 newspapers, journals, and magazines; two encyclopedias; and indexing for over 10,000 periodical titles.” NC LIVE is a cooperative venture, begun a few years ago, to make...Every library in the state is “a gateway to the total library resources in the state as well as to a rich array of electronic information,” and our own Dr. Leland Park is one of the key players in the project, serving on the Steering Committee and the Librarian’s Working Group. To reiterate what I hope no one graduates from Davidson without understanding: statistical profiles don’t tell the whole story. In the year 2000, what you find contained within a library’s walls or on its subscription list doesn’t reflect a library’s true reach into the world of information. Getting started on my research early, using interlibrary loan, and working with reference librarians on a search strategy when I was stuck extended the library’s reach far enough for me to write a master’s thesis and a doctoral dissertation right here, with only occasional trips to research libraries. And this was before NC LIVE came along and made the footwork easier!

Ellen Giduz
Careers Librarian

Gale Norton is dangerously short-sighted
By ALEX MASSENGALE AND JOSH CRAFT
Columnists

Boy, Dubya sure has picked a cabinet full of winners. We have a neo-confederate Attorney General, a man with strong connections to the tobacco industry to head the Department of Health and Human Services, and someone stuck in a cold war mentality to head the Department of Defense. Can you imagine whom George would have appointed had he received a mandate? Thank God the majority of Americans have more sense than that. However bad the rest of them may be, Gale Norton takes the cake as the most dangerous and shortsighted of all Bush’s cabinet appointees.

As the Secretary of the Interior, Norton is responsible for watching over our nation’s environment and protecting our natural resources. Gale Norton claims to be a “passionate environmentalist,” but nothing could be further from the truth. As Attorney General of Colorado, Norton, a former lobbyist for lead paint companies, was an ardent supporter of “self audits” for industries. In essence, “self auditing” turns over the role of policing and enforcing environmental laws to corporations. Imagine eliminating all police departments and then expecting criminals to start turning themselves in. One wouldn’t expect many to come forward.

A sterling example of this program in action involves the Hayden power plant. This plant gained the reputation for being one of the state’s most notorious polluters, and Norton refused to prosecute it. Finally, after lawyers from the Sierra Club took the Hayden plant to court, a federal judge ruled that it had violated the Clean Air Act an astronomical 19,000 times. One could only wonder what would have occurred had she not been such a “passionate environmentalist.”

Norton also founded the Council for Republican Environmental Advocacy, a group bankrolled by the National Mining Association, the Chemical Manufacturers Association, Texaco, and Ford Motor Company, that trumpets private property rights above environmental concerns. We visited the organization’s website (www.crea-online.org) to see the extent of Norton’s environmental advocacy. Instead, we found some articles dedicated to trashing the Sierra Club, informing one how to build an environmentally safe ranch house, and links to the Concerned Women for America, Free-Market.org, and the NRA. Didn’t see too much about deforestation, global warming, or pollution. In fact, we didn’t see much about the environment at all there, which was surprising given her claims of being an “environmentalist.”

Her group doesn’t articulate any stances on any issue of environmental concern (no wonder Dubya picked her!), only their affinity towards the free market and their hatred of environmental regulation. Among the environmental regulations Norton has sought to overturn are the Clean Air Act (surprise, surprise) and the Endangered Species Act on the grounds that they violate the Tenth Amendment and infringe upon states' rights.

Norton fervently advocates opening up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling. This would be a grave mistake. According to the Sierra Club (http://www.sierraclub.org/wilderness/Arctic/oil.asp), “America could save far more oil simply by increasing the fuel efficiency of our cars and light trucks. We wouldn’t flood the Grand Canyon to build a hydroelectric dam. We wouldn’t plug Yellowstone’s Old Faithful to tap its geothermal energy. Why should we permanently destroy this unique wilderness for an unnecessary and uncertain amount of oil?”

The solution to our nation’s energy problems involves utilizing renewable energy sources and promoting greater energy efficiency and not simply finding another finite source of oil. Generous estimates claim that ANWR alone could only support US oil demand for six months, hardly reducing our dependence on foreign oil. It certainly isn’t worth destroying one of our few remaining national treasures.

Our nation’s remaining environmental treasures are too precious to squander in such a shortsighted manner. Much of the damage done to nature is irreversible. If Norton has her way, the health of our environment could be sacrificed to the gods of short-term corporate profit. All those who wish to leave a clean Earth to future generations should oppose Norton’s nomination and pray that the Senate has the wisdom to avoid the pitfalls of her shortsighted brand of thinking.