By Colin Eagan - Staff Writer

No help from the Supreme Court needed here—thanks to the latest in Internet voting, the first round of 2001 Category
II election results at Davidson are both precise and final. Made possible by the SGA and Information Technology Services (ITS),
the successful debut of online candidate selection has eliminated margin of error and increased voter turnout campus-wide.

When the polls closed at eight o’clock p.m. on Monday, a total of 910 students had registered their votes electronically,
constituting 54.2% of the student body. Votes were cast for candidates for over a dozen positions, including President and Vice
Presidents for the SGA and Union Board, Activities Tax Council chairs, and various Trustee Committee and Honor Council seats. Greatest
turnout over the twelve-hour voting period was held by the Junior class with 68.9% of their class (224 students) while
poorest turnout came from Seniors with 26.6% (119 students).

“In terms of the effect of Internet voting, I have to say that it was dramatic to say the least,”
said Elections Coordinator Randy Skattum ’01, who has worked extensively with John Casey and Ruth Bratton of ITS to bring
E-voting to Davidson. “In comparison, for Category I Elections, our most popular election, we only had 595 people voting, whereas
[Monday] 910 people voted. To make an even more appropriate comparison, as Category I did not include seniors, the Category
II Elections from last year caused 543 students to come out. Comparing that to this year’s first day of elections,
that’s a 67.6% increase over last year for the first day of elections.”

And if the numbers aren’t convincing enough, any number of students on campus will be happy to relay the benefits
of this week’s E-voting process. “E-voting is great!” exclaimed Michael Megison ’04. “It allows you to vote any time, anywhere.
Heck, I voted in the middle of math class.” “It was definitely a lot easier to do!” offered Emily Chaffin
’03. “A very good idea,” commented Nejib Mohammed ’01. “I wish they had had it when I came here as
a freshman!”

Dean of Students Tom Shandley shares students’ enthusiasm. “I thought the process was terrific,” he stated. “Student comments seemed to
be supportive, the participation was up and there were no conflicts that I am aware of. A huge thanks needs
to go out to Elections Co-Coordinator Randy Skattum and John Casey and Ruth Bratton in ITS.”

The brainchild of several dedicated members of the SGA and the Elections Council, online voting has been in the works
at Davidson since October of last year. The SGA passed a resolution by Kevin Epps ’03, Bobby Pittenger ’02, and
Randy Skattum, stating that voter turnout could be dramatically increased if students could vote over the Internet. It asked ITS
to make the implementation of E-voting a priority. John Casey, who was unavailable for comment, and his staff developed the
program to record and tabulate student votes online. With the goal of increased voter turnout clearly met, it would appear
the hard work has paid off.

“Overall, the students seemed to embrace the Internet voting system, both as participating voters and as new President as well,”
said Harris. “A great friend. I’ve been honored to compete against him for this spot. He and I have known
each other since high school, and I am crazy about the guy.” And Harris certainly returns the favor.

Election Results:
- SGA President: Joey Harris
- Union Board President: Will Parker
- Review Board: James Davidson
- Union Board Vice President, Social Chair: PJ Martin
- Union Board Vice President, Co-Curricular Chair: Adam Hill
- Trustee Committee, Buildings and Grounds: Kevin James
- Trustee Committee, Finance and Budget: Dod Fraser
- Trustee Committee, Athletic Policy: Mike Anderson
- United Community Action President: Carrie Frazier
- United Community Action Vice President: Rachel Smith
- Student Conduct Council: Adam Hill and Catherine Tucker
- Student Solicitors: Trevor Stanley and Andy Wright
- Defense Advisors: Evan Anderson and Caroline Cunningham

Runoffs for additional offices will be held Wednesday, February 7.“Bobby and I met as rising seniors in high school and
have been good friends ever since,” he reflected. “That fact has made this election very difficult in many ways. But
I am so proud of the way that we have both kept the competition healthy and cordial. He has been
supportive of my efforts throughout the campaign as I have his. And credit to our classmates, if I had to
choose between Bobby and myself, I would have a difficult time as well.”

Upon reflecting on the election, Harris draws to mind all those who have helped him up to the top. “I
have to thank everyone who took the time to vote,” he said. “Without them, this process wouldn’t work. I also
want to thank everyone who has supported me and sent me notes and phone calls of encouragement all week.” Harris
wishes to extend special gratitude to his hall, 4th Watts, and partner hall counselor Elder Gwin ’02, as well as
Wright and the ladies of Second Little who “made it their objective this week to get me elected.”

With the campaign and election behind him, Harris plans to use this week to catch up on his sleep. He
also said he plans to “play eighteen holes of golf as soon as possible.”

Joey Harris discusses his plans for the freshman and sophomore years. In his platform, Harris has stressed the need to
make the SGA more accessible and user-friendly to students, and wants to see a firmer commitment of the association to
community service. He desires that the president encourage the discussion of campus problems and issues, and wants to serve as
a “true voice for the Davidson community.” Specific projects in the upcoming months include the buying of new charcoal grills
on campus for student use.

Harris’ accomplishments have earned him the respect of Pittenger, who describes the candidates. “Internet voting increases voter participation,” said Skattum.
“Also, students were impressed with the ease of use in terms of Internet voting and the accessibility to even those
students who are currently abroad.”

And yet E-voting cannot steal all of the credit; large turnout this week would not have been possible without the
work of a dedicated Elections Council, consisting of Skattum, Laura McDonnell ’01, Ian Willoughby ’03, and Jason Scott ’04. Members
of the council have labored hard to broadcast the candidates and the election itself through various venues, including the preparation
of a successful candidate debate, the creation of a ‘Meet the Candidates’ brochure and website, and the posting of hundreds
of reminders to vote—both on e-mail and on the walls.

Of course, some voters still felt out of the loop. “Aw, you mean the voting is over?” inquired an obviously
uninformed Hak Shin Park ’04 when asked to reflect on his E-voting experience. “How was I supposed to know? E-mail?
No one checks that, man.”

In any event, it would appear E-voting is here to stay. “I was very pleased with the enormous turnout with
the new Internet voting,” noted Pittenger. “I am just glad that more people were given the time and the chance
to exercise the right to vote.” And, at the very least, with the advent of voting in the safety of
dorms, pushing and shoving in line at the voting tables in Commons and Chambers seems to be a thing of
the past. “I will admit that I missed the usual level of excitement in the Chambers hallway with students voting
in person,” reflected Shandley. “But I may have been the only one who did!” Voting by computer is, after all,
as quiet as a mouse.

Excitement is spreading throughout Max & Erma’s as we are getting ready to open our newest location, right here in
Huntersville! We now have more than 50 restaurants throughout the nation, featuring a highly successful combination of fun-loving people and
delicious food within a casual, promote-from-within environment. If you’re a high-energy person with a sense of purpose—and a sense of
humor—join us in one of the following positions:

- WAIT STAFF
- DISHWASHERS
- PREP & LINE COOKS
- BUS PERSONNEL

Full & Part-Time Positions Available!

In addition to a great starting wage, we offer a dining discount for all associates and immediate health care enrollment,
paid vacation, and 401K enrollment for full-time associates. Please apply in person M-F between 9am & 5pm or Saturday between
10am & 2pm at the Max & Erma's hiring trailer:

MAX & ERMA'S, 8700 Sam Furr, Huntersville, NC 28078. Ph: 704-895-9994, Fax: 704-895-4442, Equal Opportunity Employer

Max & Erma’s BAR & GATHERING PLACE

www.maxandermas.com
