Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

legal basis from the local cemetery. One night the police came in search of a particular body, and the medical students threw it into a column of Old Chambers and covered it with slaked lime.

Apparently, the tale of such a skull had been circulating throughout Davidson for years. All previous attempts to retrieve the theoretical human remains ended with the adventurer’s classmates sabotaging the effort.

But in October of 1914, Dumas and a classmate (identified as Ernest “Skinny” Campbell) decided to succeed where others had failed by keeping their plans a secret. Dumas writes, “A Saturday afternoon was selected when there was some particularly interesting athletic event in progress... and the campus was otherwise deserted.

We took a heavy rope, flashlights and newspapers to the top of the columns under the low roof. Skinny went down. Result: Nothing. I went down the next column and found the skull.

“A few days later Skinny went down another column and found the remains of the rest of the body, which had, as alleged, been covered with lime. He found one forearm and hand with the tendons partially intact. A later exploration of the other columns yielded negative results.”

Understandably, the grisly discovery caused quite a stir. The October 21, 1914 issue of the Davidsonian ran the find on the front page. According to the article, the skull most likely belonged to an African-American man. It had been “divided laterally into two nearly equal parts” and showed signs of having been “exhaustively studied in the dissecting room” — adding credibility to the theory that it was a medical student’s deposit.

Oddly enough, in 1913 the Davidson College Literary Annual had run a poem entitled “Archibald Jones” about the cadaver in the column. This added to the speculation about who, exactly, the cadaver had been and who put it there.

“No doubt,” concluded The Davidsonian, “there is some Davidson alumnus now high up in the medical profession, who holds the key to the complete unraveling of the source of this story. If such there be he has an opportunity to satiate the curiosity of many Davidson students.”

Regrettably, no such alumnus ventured forth; how the skull and skeleton got there remains a mystery to this day.

Many thanks to Wendy Roberts and the President’s Office, who provided The Davidsonian with photocopies of the article and explained its origins.

The Davidsonian is back online! Check us out at our new address: http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

---

UP ON THE LATEST TECHNOLOGY?

The Office of College Communications seeks a summer student employee to assist with Web design, the integration of content with templates, image cataloging, and other site development tasks as needed. Student should be familiar with HTML and basic Web design concepts. Experience with Dreamweaver and Fireworks or Photoshop preferred.

If interested, please send a resume and cover letter to: Sandra Tucker, Editor of New Media College Communications satucker@davidson.edu

---

Summer Employment

Liz Neiheisel and Ben Carter will study abroad next year as Watson Fellows.

Watson, from page I

homelessness and to the writings of the homeless. Homeless vendors then sell these newspapers on the streets. The newspapers are not only a source of income for the vendors, but a source of information for the patrons — and a rare source of truth about life in post-Soviet countries,” she said.

Neiheisel will spend ten weeks in each of four countries: Hungary, Romania, the Ukraine and Russia. She plans to work with government officials as well as the newspapers’ staffs and readerships, to gain an understanding of the methods and effects of the street newspaper movement. She hopes that the newspapers will serve as a framework for studying the greater problem of homelessness and its effects on individuals and society.

While the next year holds the potential for great growth and adventure, it is also an intimidating possibility. “It’s not like someone’s meeting me off the airplane or checking on me every day. It’s up to me to create a circle of friends everywhere I go, which can be nerve-wracking and exhilarating,” said Neiheisel. Neiheisel deferred journalism school to pursue her Watson studies, but plans to enter graduate school sometime after she returns.

The Watson Fellowship awards $22,000 to each of sixty outstanding college seniors every year. Over the course of the program’s 23-year history, about sixty Davidson students have received the grant.

Bill Giduz