Men’s tennis earns three straight conference wins
By WHITNEY BOYKIN
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team is on a roll. After winning six of its last seven matches, the Wildcats are in
fifth place in the Southern Conference with a record of 10-7, 5-3 in the conference. With victories over Wofford, The
Citadel, and Georgia Southern, the team hopes to pick up a first-round bye in the conference tournament by finishing in
fifth place or higher. Head coach Jeff Frank said Thursday’s match against Appalachian State may be the best opportunity to
lock up the fifth seed.

“The team is playing great right now,” he said. “We’ve got a chance now to finish (No.) five and not
have to play the first day, but to do that we have to beat ASU on Thursday or ETSU on
Friday. Thursday would cement it for us.”

Against Georgia Southern on Sunday, Davidson opened the match by taking all three doubles for a 1-0 lead. Seniors Whit
Hansen and Billy Boykin (#1) won by a score of 8-6 as did junior David Webb and freshman Rob Haywood
at number three. Freshman Rob Gould and junior Chad Winebarger defeated Wojciech Nowak and Darren Clark 8-3 at No. 2
doubles.

The singles matches were much more nerve-racking. Winebarger (#3) and senior Chad Phillips (#4) won in straight sets, but Webb
stole the spotlight with a match-clinching victory at No. 5 that lasted more than an hour after the other matches
were completed. With the team score tied at 3-3, Webb rallied from one set down to upend Uli Ebensperger, giving
Davidson its third consecutive win.

In Saturday’s match against The Citadel, the Bulldogs jumped on top of Davidson early by taking the top two doubles
matches. Haywood and Webb picked up Davidson’s only victory, an 8-2 triumph over John Dougherty and Tuck Deiter. The team
dominated in singles play, claiming five of the six contests all in straight sets for the win. Boykin and Eddie
Almada had the closest match of the afternoon with Boykin prevailing 6-4, 7-6. Hansen, Winebarger, Webb, and freshman Bryan Stonestreet
were all victorious for Davidson.

In Thursday’s 6-1 win over Wofford, the Wildcats took the top two matches for the doubles point. At number two
doubles, freshman and junior Winebarger picked up their team-leading 11th doubles victory and also notched their fourth conference win of
the season. Boykin and Hansen triumphed at No. 1, 8-5. Davidson won five of the six singles matches to clinch
the victory. Hansen’s 6-0, 6-2 win was his fifth straight at No. 1 singles. Phillips, Webb, and Stonestreet all won
in straight sets. The Cats began the match by sweeping all three doubles. Number one team Boykin/Hansen and number three
team Webb/Lewis both won their sets by a score of 8-6. Number two team Gould/Winebarger won their match 8-3.

Coach Frank is very pleased with Webb’s recent play and commented enthusiastically on this upset. “David Webb won the deciding
matches against Citadel and Georgia Southern this weekend. In the last two conference matches he is a perfect 4-0 in
singles and doubles. Nobody else on the team has that record.”

Women’s tennis picks up momentum with second straight win
By WHITNEY BOYKIN
Staff Writer

For only the second time this season, the women’s tennis team has won two straight matches thanks to a 5-2...Victory
over Wofford on Monday. With the win, the Wildcats improve to 7-9 overall and 3-4 in the Southern Conference with
three matches remaining before the conference tournament. Davidson triumphed in five of the six singles contests, all in straight sets,
to clinch the victory. Freshman Lindsay Offutt (No. 1) earned her first career SoCon singles victory with a 6-3, 6-3
win over Wendy Rohr. Fellow freshman Katherine Hatch (No. 6) picked up her third consecutive singles victory while junior Kelley
Cantrell (No. 4) and sophomores Yasamina Hilu (No. 3) and Gayle Jones (No. 5) also prevailed. The Terriers took the
top two matches for the doubles point. Hatch and Offutt (No. 3) were the only players to notch a win,
pulling out a 9-7 victory over Kristine Banks and Erin Hantske.

The win over Wofford, coupled with Saturday’s 5-2 home triumph over Georgia Southern, gives the Wildcats some momentum as the
postseason approaches. It also helps erase the memories of consecutive losses to Furman on March 31 and UNC Greensboro on
April 5. The women played with a home court advantage in the match against Furman, but the nationally-ranked Paladins won
6-0 to record their 26th straight conference win. The Paladins took all three doubles matches to win the doubles point.
Katherine Hatch and Lindsay Offutt played a close match at No. 3 but fell 8-5 to Krista Thomson and Shellie
Cochran. Before the rain forced the match to be cancelled early, the Paladins had enough time to clinch the win
with four singles victories. The only player still on the court was No. 5 Gayle Jones. She was down one
set and trailing 3-2 when the match was called off.

Against UNCG, the Wildcats dropped two of three doubles matches en route to a 5-2 loss. The lone win came
from No. 1 team Elizabeth Moreno and Yasamina Hilu in an exciting 11-point tiebreaker. “Yasa and (Moreno) are really pulling
it together and starting to show their potential. I think they will continue to improve their record,” said head coach
Carolina Price. Moreno recorded her second win of the day and her first conference victory over No. 2 Ashel Rimel
by a score of 6-3, 6-2. Freshman Katherine Hatch also won her singles match to improve her record to 3-2
in conference play.

The 5-2 win over Georgia Southern gave the team its second victory in the conference. The Wildcats won the doubles
point this time to take a 1-0 lead entering singles. In singles, the women clinched the victory with four straight-set
victories. Cantrell and freshman Hatch both notched their team-leading ninth singles victories while Hilu and Jones also triumphed. The team
travels to Boone on Thursday to play Appalachian State at 3 p.m.

Sports Information contributed to this article.

Erin Berry
Junior Elizabeth Moreno returns a rally.

Davidsonian Player of the Week
Sarah Otto
The junior scored two goals to lead the lacrosse team to a thrilling 10-9 victory over Richmond on Apr. 7.

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Apr. 17 @ Winthrop 6:30
Apr. 18 N.C. A&T 3:00

GOLF
Apr. 13-14 Wofford Invitational Spartanburg, SC

TRACK & FIELD
Apr. 14 USA Collegiate Series Greenville, S.C.

MEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 12 @ Appalachian State 2:30 p.m.
Apr. 13 @ East Tenn. St. 9:30 a.m.
Apr. 17 @ Elon College 2:30 p.m.

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 12 @ Appalachian State 3:00 p.m.
Apr. 14 @ Virginia Tech 9:00 a.m.
Apr. 17 @ East Tenn. St. 10:00 a.m.

LACROSSE
Apr. 16 @ Vanderbilt 3:30 p.m.
