The Davidsonian
Wednesday, October 10, 2001

This week in Martha’s Kitchen: Don’t be chicken. Cooking’s fun!
By Martha Hunt
Arts and Living Editor

Hey again everyone! Welcome back to Martha’s Kitchen. Fall Break is on the way, woo-hoo. I’ll be sure to bring
back some scrumptious recipes from home, just to enlighten you. So, did you try the “tomato tacos”? If you made
it through the last recipe without burning down the dorm, pat yourself on the back. You are ready for the
next phase.

For this week’s delectable delight, you’ll definitely need an oven. No cold pizzas here. However, this one is pretty simple,
so with a little oomph in your step and confidence in your cooking ability, another meal will be popping out
of the oven in no time. The following is one of my favorite recipes. It’s so quick to fix and
it tastes superb. Chicken is one of the easiest foods to prepare, and one of the most versatile. You can
dice it, fry it, bake it, boil it... the list goes on. The recipe below is great if you’ve never
dealt with chicken before. It’s a good way to get your feet wet in the kitchen real fast. Here’s what
you’ll need:

1 package of boneless, skinless chicken breasts (usually there are 4 per package, so if you need more, buy accordingly)
Red pepper, green pepper, yellow pepper (pick the color of your choice!)
1 onion
Salt and pepper
Olive oil
Foil
Baking sheet
Oven preheated to around 375

Here’s what you do:
1. Measure out a square piece of foil for each chicken piece you

Award-winning photographer will showcase work in 900 Room
By Brian Harbin, Executive Editor

Award-winning photographer Ken Duncan will present a collection of his work and discuss his worldwide travels at a free, public
presentation at Davidson College, Wednesday, October 17. The event will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the C. Shaw Smith 900
Room of the Alvarez College Union.

Revered for his trademark Panographs, Duncan will talk about the technical aspects and philosophy of America Wide: In God We
Trust, his latest collection of this unique brand of panoramic landscape photography that seeks to capture the essence of a
place at a particular time. His visit to Davidson will mark Duncan’s only collegiate stop on a two-week North American
publicity tour that takes him to Los Angeles, Chicago, New York, Dallas, Nashville, and Birmingham, Alabama.

“Davidson is honored to have Mr. Duncan,” said Adam Norris, a senior Economics major who spearheaded the effort to bring
Duncan to Davidson. “Any time an artist of Mr. Duncan’s exceptional caliber agrees to give his time to this community,
we’re extremely excited and profoundly grateful.”

America Wide is the product of a three-year, 80,000-mile overland journey through all 50 states, where Duncan shot over 3,000
rolls of film. From some 10,000 photographs, Duncan culled 106 to include in his book, which is the first photography
collection to document America in panoramic format.

“The uniqueness of my journey and the resulting book is that America has been seen through fresh eyes,” said Duncan,
who had never photographed America before beginning the America Wide project. “Of all the countries in the world I have
traveled through, I have never seen a country more blessed with natural beauty.”

Who: Award-winning photographer Ken Duncan
What: A multimedia presentation of Duncan’s latest collection of panoramic landscape photography
When: Wednesday, Oct. 17, 7:30 p.m.
Where: C. Shaw Smith 900 Room
Admission: Free

A native of Australia, Duncan has earned an international reputation since his first photographic expedition in Australia almost 20 years
ago. He spent five years in the Australian Outback, risking his financial security and following what he describes as “a
calling from God.” His experiences there inspired the next two decades of award-winning photography. Duncan has completed assignments for National
Geographic and the New York Times and continues work on projects in the United Kingdom and America. The Sydney 2000
Olympic Games commissioned him to create several unique collections of commemorative Panographs® that celebrated the Australian landscape and the urban
vibrancy of the host city. The Australian Professional Photography Magazine described him as “the photographer who is now undoubtedly Australia’s
(and possibly the world’s) leading exponent of panoramic landscape photography.” And just this year, the photographer won gold and silver
medals.At the Australian National Print Awards, Duncan, whose spirituality and strong faith define his life's work, remains humble. “Sure, I
have won some awards, but it’s not all about me,” said Duncan. “I believe when shooting landscape you have to
humble yourself before God who created that landscape in order to feel the spirit of the moment.”

With a feathered friend before; if you have, it’s still a simple way to get some tasty food foil around
all sides. Put the foil squares on the baking sheet, in a row, or however you can configure them so
they all fit side-by-side.

1. Pull the chicken out of the package. Now one thing I must warn you about here is that you
are working with raw meat. You can never take too many precautions. Just make sure that you clean off your
working surface REALLY WELL before and after handling the chicken. Also, WASH YOUR HANDS immediately after touching any meat. People
get sick with other culinary marvels named Martha have. Make sure there’s ample room on all sides of the chicken
(i.e., about 4-5 inches). You wouldn’t want to be spreading crazy chicken germs everywhere.

2. Put a breast of chicken on a foil square. Congratulations. You’ve mastered the hard part. The rest is easy!

3. Basically, what you are about to do is to season the chicken. That’s what the other ingredients are for.
Slice up the pepper and onion and put a few strips of each on top of the chicken breast. Drizzle
some olive oil over that (don’t drench the chicken), and then sprinkle some salt and pepper. If you have other
spices available, try them!

4. That’s it. All you need to do now is fold up the foil around the chicken, crimping the edges
so oil and juices can’t escape during baking. Make a little package, in other words.

5. Throw the baking sheet into the oven and set a timer for around 20 minutes. The best way to
tell if the chicken is done is to undo one of the packets (careful, it will be HOT), and slice
into the chicken with a knife and fork. If it looks pinkish, it still needs to cook. It’s done when
the chicken is white through the middle.

6. Enjoy! Mmm, tasty, juicy chicken. Amaze your friends with your fine culinary talents. Just be sure to hide this
issue of the Davidsonian. They’ll never guess.

New art exhibit to open next week
Exhibit will feature permanent collection works and paintings by Corinne Duchesne, Oct. 17 - Dec. 5

Press Release
College Communications

Selections of artwork from the Davidson College permanent collection, and paintings by Canadian artist Corinne Duchesne, will open to the
public on Wednesday, October 17, in the college’s Belk Visual Arts Center. Both exhibitions will remain on view through December
5.

Duchesne will present a slide lecture in the building’s Semans Lecture Hall on opening night from 7-8 p.m., and a
reception for the artists will follow the talk. Duchesne will exhibit some of her new paintings in the building’s Edward
M. Smith Gallery. Her dynamic canvases are imbued with a colorful lyricism that strives to construct an “allegory for the
quest of the human spirit, based on duality.”

The William H. Van Every Gallery will feature selections from the more than 2,600 works in the college’s permanent collection.
Among the artists to be exhibited are Rembrandt Van Rijn, Robert Rauschenberg, Pablo Picasso, Diane Arbus, Romare Bearden, and Kenneth
Noland.

The Right Look. The Right Price. $8.95
No appointments necessary. Open 7 days a week with convenient evening and weekend hours. Guaranteed Satisfaction. Guaranteed Style. Visit our
website at www.greatclips.com.

GOOD ONLY AT:
Turnberry Place Shopping Center
I-77, Exit 28, Cornelius
-next to Sushi at the Lake-
(704) 987-0607

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY
Not valid with other offers. Limit one coupon per customer. Good only at Turnberry location. OFFER EXPIRES 6/1/02

Unfortunately, mind-reading is not one of our talents. Email Martha (mahunt@davidson.edu) or Derek (deloh@davidson.edu) with your ideas or comments about
A&L.
