Sequel to Hannibal: By PHILIP STEWART Staff Writer: The movie blurb branch of film criticism eats up films like Hannibal; is there an easier target than movies about cannibals? “Hannibal is a delicious treat with many flavors.” “Hannibal is a gourmet buffet of stories.” “Hannibal is not for all tastes...,” or my personal favorite, “...Hannibal bites...” But worse than the blurb critic is one bent on a sequel-bashing mission. Anyone entering the theater expecting another The Silence of the Lambs will, of course, leave feeling disappointed. Using one film to condemn the other is a pathetic copout.

Ten years ago, The Silence of the Lambs proved a success among both low and high-brow audiences. The film entertains and frightens on one level but transcends its genre psychologically and emotionally on the other. Its sequel Hannibal is a different movie altogether, but it too transcends the typical horror/suspense film, albeit in completely different ways. Jonathan Demme’s film was an exercise in suspense and subtlety, but Ridley Scott’s is one of excess, honoring atmosphere, tone, and image over story and suspense. In fact, Hannibal’s story could be laughably ludicrous if it weren’t directed so well.

Thomas Harris’ novel of the same name was reviled by most critics because of its extreme violence: genetically engineered man-eating boars, hanging and disembowelment, dogs eating faces, and most notably, dining on brains. These are all things normal people have no desire to see, but Ridley Scott keeps all of them in the film, combining the Grand Guignol excess with beautiful photography and style — we do not want to look, but he forces us to — it looks too good.

The film opens with a startling technique where the image slowly emerges from the blackness until it finally fills the screen. Like the opening, most of the style in the film is relatively simple but astonishingly evocative and effective. The final fifteen minutes reach some cosmic plateau where temporal movement halts; Scott hypnotizes us with his pacing and sound, and Anthony Hopkins’ Hannibal Lecter and Julianne Moore’s Clarice Starling do an amazing job of conveying that same feeling. We feel as if we are experiencing a single moment in time throughout the entire section.

One notable set piece involves a grand outdoor opera scene. The music is lavish and sumptuous, almost contemplative. Watching Hannibal relish in the music is nothing short of breathtaking. But the best scene in the film is the one everyone has been waiting to see for seven years — one where Clarice and Hannibal speak again. Rather than between glass, they speak over cell phones in Union Station. The scene is edited swiftly to increase intensity and exposes the essential difference between The Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal. Silence was a quiet film full of small sublime moments. Hannibal has few quiet moments, valuing excess and sensory overload. Both work well on their own terms, but unfortunately, Hannibal goes too far over-the-top at times. In two scenes, music adds awkward comedy, and Scott lingers on grotesque images a bit too long. Seeing a slit throat once is enough, but he makes us see it twice, and for prolonged periods. Blue light and fog effects abound as well and should have been severely attenuated, and does Hannibal always need to be lit from underneath? Finally, who needs to see a pig bite into an already deformed man’s face?

On a more technical note, the sound in the film is superb. On a crowded street, we see a man holding change in his hands, and all we can hear is the jingle of the coins. The opening credits are layered with many noises, some sounding strangely like chewing. Heart-level — it’s more about dread than fear, Hannibal is not a scaly Gaon the sound plays a truly vital role personifying that dread. Goldberg and Brandenburg play on the soundtrack. We are in Hannibal’s world now. Silence was Clarice’s movie; here she’s more a secondary character. Ridley Scott does a masterful job of giving us Hannibal’s eyes. He surrounds us in beauty but punctuates that with the gore and sick humor Hannibal loves so much. If you can stomach the blood and accept the plot, each subordinate to the direction, the film is a visual and auditory feast.

Circus provides a great show at an even better price By Mark Murray Staff Writer: For a free ride to Charlotte and a fee of only five dollars, nearly any show could qualify as “The Greatest Show on Earth.” But Ringling Brothers’ Barnum and Bailey Circus is not just any show. Last Saturday night forty-five Davidson students traveled to the Charlotte Coliseum to see nearly everything from elephants doing handstands to women hanging by their hair and juggling fire.

About a year ago, Ringling Bros. performed a few shows in my hometown and I attended one with my niece and nephew. I was very impressed with that performance, but was equally impressed at how different the Charlotte show was. Instead of three motorcyclists riding around a caged sphere, this show had a clown balancing an extension ladder on his chin, and a human cannonball. I find it refreshing to know that the acts are constantly changing, and that the circus is actively trying to maintain its title as “The Greatest Show on Earth” after one hundred thirty years of touring.

On a side note, a small group of protestors had gathered outside the Coliseum to picket about alleged animal abuse. Inside the Coliseum, though, employees were handing out pamphlets explaining that Ringling Bros. is world-renowned for taking great care of their animals. So the evening was guilt-free, cheap in cost, and quite possibly the “Greatest Show on Earth.” Plus, the cotton candy was good!— film is some kind of masterpiece of transcendence. Scott captures the tone of Lecter’s psyche incredibly well. As a bonus, those knowing The Silence of the Lambs will notice an abundance of visual and aural homages to the original film. Listen for the autopsy flashbulb, watch for the cleverly edited door-entering sequence, and look at that jog in the woods (there are many, many more examples). Hannibal is a good movie. Academics and critics are sure to either denounce it as gory trash or praise its flair, but it’s hard to deny the film is a visual feast (I had to get one in there). Grade: B+

Academy hits the mark with leading actress nominees, fumbles on supporting roles
By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

I guess I’m kind of like John Cusack’s character in High Fidelity, but instead of being obsessed with and making lists about records and women, I am obsessed with and make lists about movies. It’s a sad, sad existence. Case in point: the Academy Awards. Why do I care about who wins or who gets nominated? They are a bunch of stupid gold statuettes that mean absolutely nothing. This is a fact. And yet, year after year, I hope in vain that the nominees and awards will recognize the films and people that deserve recognition. And they never do, as the announcement of this year’s nominees on Tuesday morning proved once again.

I was happy to see that Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Traffic, two of the year’s best movies, received best picture nominations. And, as expected, Erin Brockovich earned a nod as well. It’s a solid, entertaining film, but it is certainly not best picture material. Same goes for Chocolat, which undoubtedly owes much of its success to Miramax. The monotonous, overly pretentious, messy, drab, and ultimately boring Gladiator received the fifth best picture nomination. The year’s best film, You Can Count on Me, was inexplicably ignored.

The best actor nominees were slightly more deserving of their recognition than the best picture nominees. Tom Hanks successfully carried us through the somewhat long Cast Away, and Russell Crowe’s nominated performance is Gladiator’s only saving grace. Nominee Javier Bardem played Cuban writer Reinaldo Arenas in Before Night Falls. His performance was, indeed, one of the year’s best. For his funny and haunting portrayal of the Marquis de Sade in Quills, Oscar winner Geoffrey Rush justly received a nod. Also, Ed Harris was nominated for his self-directed portrayal of Jackson Pollock in Pollock, a film unseen by me. Robbed of a nomination, Matt Damon gave the year’s best leading actor performance in All the Pretty Horses. It was a quiet, and thus tricky, role that Damon handled masterfully.

It seems every year there is one category in which all the nominees are, indeed, Oscar-worthy. Last year it was the best supporting actress category — this year it’s the leading actress nominees. In Requiem for a Dream, Ellen Burstyn gave the year’s best performance. She was touching, funny, and — at the end of the film — revolting as an elderly woman who, by no fault of her own, becomes addicted to drugs. Laura Linney in You Can Count on Me was simply too good to be overlooked, and the Academy, for once, awarded greatness with a nomination. Joan Allen (The Contender) and Julia Roberts (Erin Brockovich) also gave Oscar-caliber performances. The last nominee, Juliette Binoche for Chocolat, is the one nominee who I would not have included on a list of the year’s best performances. Nothing about her role struck me as exceptional. The only great performance the Academy failed to recognize was Bjork’s no-holds-barred work in the emotionally draining Dancer in the Dark.

For best supporting actor, Jeff Bridges (The Contender), Willem Dafoe (Shadow of the Vampire), Benicio del Toro (Traffic), Albert Finney (Erin Brockovich), and Joaquin Phoenix (Gladiator) were nominated. The only qualm I have with the Academy’s choices is its inclusion of Phoenix’s pointlessly bizarre role in Gladiator and its exclusion of Gary Oldman’s sinister performance in The Contender.

The worst collection of nominees was the supporting actresses. As entertaining as Judi Dench (Chocolat) and Julie Walters (Billy Elliot) were, their wrongfully nominated performances lacked any depth and existed only to spice up their film’s stories. On the other hand, Almost Famous’s Frances McDormand and Kate Hudson, who I hope and think will win, were more than deserving of their nominations. Finally, Pollock’s Marcia Gay Harden was recognized by the Academy for her portrayal of Jackson Pollock’s wife. But why, oh why, was Jennifer Connelly overlooked for her harrowing and heartfelt performance in Requiem for a Dream? Perhaps Academy voters were scared to reward a role as graphic as hers was.

For directing, Stephen Daldry was wrongly nominated for Billy Elliot, a film laden with inconsistencies and melodrama. Similarly, Ridley Scott’s nomination for Gladiator was undeserved. On the other hand, Ang Lee finally received a hard-earned nomination for Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. And, for the first time since 1938, a director received two nominations: Steven Soderbergh was recognized for Erin Brockovich and Traffic. He deserves to win for Traffic. Not surprisingly, the Academy neglected the brilliant direction of Eric Mendelsohn (Judy Berlin) and Sophia Coppola (The Virgin Suicides).

The Oscars will be presented live on March 25 on ABC at 8:00 pm.