By Jackie DAVIDSON

Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats displayed a valiant effort by their defense and a solid performance from junior quarterback Paul Nichols as
the ’Cats defeated Emory & Henry 23-6, deftly avoiding a two-game losing skid.

The Davidson defense forced five Wasp turnovers, including two interceptions by junior Graham Elmore, while Nichols, recovering from his worst
career start as a Wildcat, threw for 127 yards, including two second-half touchdowns. The victory was the Wildcats’ first ever
at E & H’s Fullerton Field.

In a first-half defensive struggle, the Wildcats caused a Wasp fumble and intercepted the E & H quarterback, leaving the
offense with terrific field position. Davidson squandered its first scoring opportunity, however, as the ’Cats mishandled the snap on a
36-yard field goal attempt by place kicker Daniel Hanks.

Later, though, the second Wasp turnover of the half—one of Elmore’s two interceptions—resulted in a 19-yard touchdown run by freshman
John Leverett, the only score of the first quarter.

Following intermission, the Davidson defense forced yet another turnover when the Emory & Henry quarterback coughed up the ball as
linebackers Darryl Childers and Brendan Date double-teamed him. Freshman Scott McDonald recovered the fumble on Emory & Henry’s 32-yard line.
Four plays and a penalty later, Nichols found junior wide receiver Mike Chase in the end zone, who wrestled the
pass away from a defender for a 26-yard TD.

The only Wildcat score unassisted by the E&H offense came in the middle of the fourth quarter. On third and
eight, Nichols lofted a pass over three Wasp defenders to a speeding Randall Hardy, who sprinted 40 yards to the
end zone for Davidson’s third TD of the afternoon.

Though the Wasps’ defense held the ’Cats to a mere 243 yards, the stingy Wildcat defense only allowed 242. Emory
& Henry’s only score came on a 46-yard touchdown pass from Rob Spencer to Lashon Green with 2:48 remaining in
the game.

Quarterback Paul Nichols said, “Our week of preparation was outstanding and the win put us on the right side of
the scoreboard. More importantly though, the win restored confidence in the team that we still are an outstanding team with
a chance to win every game we play.”

Davidson will have their second Saturday off in three weeks with a scheduled bye week.

The Cats return to action on October 6 against divisional foe Morehead State (0-4), a most formidable opponent. Last year,
the Cats defeated the Eagles 38-31 in a thrilling double-overtime game. But in the previous year, MSU trounced the Cats
40-0. Kickoff is slated for 1:30 p.m. at MSU.

Game Faces: Captains Around Campus This Week: Volleyball...

Jacqueline Ortega
Miami, Florida
Political Science Major

Years Experience in Sport:
7 years

Position:
Outside hitter

Favorite Pump-up Song:
“Today” by the Smashing Pumpkins

In your opinion, who is the best role model for youth today?

“Ralph Ortega, football coach for the Gulliver Prep Raiders. He pushes his players to be the best they can be
athletically and personally. Having a coach like that can make all the difference in the world for an athlete.”

Jenn Ortega
Miami, Florida
History Major, predental

Years Experience in Sport:
7 years

Position:
Middle blocker

Favorite Pump-up Song:
“Gasoline Dreams” by Outkast

In your opinion, who is the best role model for youth today?

“I admire my grandparents tremendously. They have always inspired dignity, hard work, and joy in everything they do and taught
[my sister and I] to do the same.”

Photos by Erin Berry

Erica “E” Schwartz
Phoenix, Arizona
English Major

Years Experience in Sport:
13 years

Position:
Setter

Favorite Pump-up Song:
“Firestarter” by Prodigy

In your opinion, who is the best role model for youth today?

“Anyone that can personally inspire you to achieve...mine was Debbie Green (setter for the National Team). She was 5’4", which
to me meant that if I worked hard enough, my height would never hinder my success as a volleyball player.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,

Sarah Davis
Jacqueline (12) and Jennifer (1) Ortega leap together to block a Citadel spike. See story PAGE 11.

CLUB SPORT SPOTLIGHT

In-line Hockey

By Evan McCormick
Asst Contributor

A few weeks ago, the Davidson College Inline Hockey team opened the season with a thrilling 10-4 victory. The victory
was merely an extension of last year’s successful campaign when the team captured the Monday Night League championship. However, the
current squad vaguely resembles the cast of characters that hoisted the Cup last spring.

Only five players on last year’s championship team are playing this semester: defensemen Jay Hollis and forwards Josh Voorhees, Jim
Davidson, and goalie Evan McCormick. The five absent players are studying abroad this semester, leaving a large void to fill.

Fortunately, the gap has been filled with potential-ridden newcomers Richard Connolly, Trip Cook, Tim Cook, Weston Waxweiler, Andrew Foerster, and
Ned Conway. The new recruits add speed, grit, and determination to an already proud squad. However, it will take time
for the new players to gel.

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Do not be afraid of the past. If people tell you that it is irrevocable, do not believe them.” —
Oscar Wilde

THE WEEK AHEAD

MEN’S SOCCER VOLLEYBALL

Sept. 28 Xavier 7:00 Sept. 27 @ Wofford 7:00

Sept. 30 @ Evansville TBA Sept. 29 @ Georgia Southern 2:00

Oct. 2 N. Carolina A&T 7:00

WOMEN’S SOCCER FIELD HOCKEY

Sept. 28 Appalachian State 7:00 Sept. 28 @ SW Missouri State 4:00

Sept. 30 E. Tennessee U. 2:00 Sept. 29 @ SW Missouri State 2:00

Sept. 30 @ St. Louis 12:00 at SW Missouri State
