he

@ ALENDA LU

Davidson COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 11

Wildcats shine on ‘Broadway stage’

Men’s basketball
team beats North
Carolina in thriller

By Burcin Harbin
Executive Editor

CHAPEL HILL, N.C.—Reeling from a
77-69 loss to Hampton four nights earlier, the
North Carolina Tar Heels looked to last
Tuesday’s game against Davidson for heal-
ing. But Davidson would not bandage any of
the Tar Heels’ wounds.

Catharsis eluded North Carolina two days
before Thanksgiving as Davidson defeated
the Tar Heels 58-54 at the Dean Smith Cen-
ter.

“It’s a wonderful experience to be on a
Broadway stage, and clearly this institution
is, this program [North Carolina] is just that,”
said head coach Bob McKillop after the game.
“For our players to handle themselves, to
recite their lines and function as well as they
did, in this kind of environment is a marvel-
ous statement about these young men and
certainly a marvelous start for what we hope
to be a very successful season.”

Davidson started Tuesday night’s tango
with a 17-5 run in the first ten minutes,
including a six-minute period of 12 unan-
swered points. Peter Anderer, who paced the
Wildcats with 18 points, led the opening
offensive charge with a baseline jumper at the
17-minute mark and a 3-pointer on the next
Davidson possession.

Meanwhile, poor shooting and the Wild-
cats’ zone defense beleaguered the Tar Heels
as they watched misguided shot after mis-
guided shot fall away from the basket.

“We’ve got to be able to put the ball in
the basket,” said North Carolina coach Matt
Doherty. “We didn’t shoot well, and we turned
it over.”

North Carolina’s 14 first half turnovers—
double Davidson’s first half tally—speaks to
the Tar Heels’ inability to escape the sticki-
ness of Davidson’s defensive web. It was not
uncommon for a Tar Heel to drive the lane
only to be pick-pocketed by, most often,

see Basketball, page 12

Students voice concerns
at Nov. 14 social forum

Questions on Outpost,
Court, Union dominate
campus-wide discussion

By Nick AsMA
Senior Staff Writer

A relatively sparse crowd of about 100
students, faculty and staff attended a forum
on social life on Nov. 14 in the 900 Room.
Hosted by College President Bobby Vagt and
Dean of Students Tom Shandley, the event
was intended to foster discussion about ways
to improve social opportunities at the new
Alvarez Student Union and Patterson Court.

Members of the audience expressed their
questions and concerns as the two adminis-
trators listened attentively and took notes.

Only about a dozen students and staff mem-
bers expressed opinions on various aspects of
Davidson social life. Many topics were
brought up repeatedly and some overlapped
each other. Few clear solutions seemed evi-
dent.

One of the main issues discussed was the
continued dissatisfaction of many students
with the closing of the Outpost and the trans-
fer of all late-night food service to the new
Union Cafe. Some in attendance, including
Marty Benson ’02, noted that they would
prefer to see the Outpost re-opened because
the Union Cafe lacks the ambiance of the
former Patterson Court location.

One commentator noted that the shutting
down of the Outpost has fragmented the
student body. Before, he noted, independent
students were drawn to the Court for the food
at the Outpost, but now fewer go down the hill
than before. He claimed that few people who
party on Patterson Court make the trek up to
the Union Cafe late at night. Others com-
mented that the presence of authority figures

see Forum, page 2

Events planned for World AIDS Day

Campus to hold
awareness activities
in week before Dec. 1

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

Did you know that 36.1 million adults and
1.4 million children were living with HIV at
the end of 2000? How about the fact that 5.3
people became infected with HIV, and 3
million people died from HIV/AIDS last year
alone?

If you didn’t, you’re not alone. Dec. 1
marks the 14th annual World AIDS Day,
devoted to “bringing messages of compas-
sion, hope, solidarity and understanding about
AIDS to every country in the world”
(avert.com). This year’s Campaign slogan is
“I Care. Do You?”

Here at Davidson, many student organiza-
tions are coming together to promote AIDS
awareness in the college community for this
worldwide event. Since Dec. 1 falls on a
weekend, many on-campus groups felt it nec-
essary to plan events throughout the preced-
ing week.

Indeed, much has been planned. Davidson’s
Adopt-A-Country chapter will be distribut-
ing red ribbons and AIDS trivia cards, per-
haps on an individual basis by leaving them
outside dorm rooms. The student health cen-
ter, in cooperation with a group led by Julia
Philpott ’02, will be setting up the annual
luminary display around campus.

Though many luminary bags were made
while the AIDS quilt was on display in the
Union over the past weeks, some 1,500 more
have yet to be decorated with the names of
those who have died from AIDS.

Also in relation to World AIDS Day, the
Bioethics Society is sponsoring a panel dis-
cussion on a variety of topics relating to HIV/
AIDS. The discussion is planned for today
from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. in the Union. Dr.
James M. Horton from Carolinas Medical

see AIDS, page 4

Caroline Hauser

Martin Ides (left) and Chris Pearson battle for a rebound during
Davidson’s 58-54 victory over North Carolina on Nov. 20.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4

W. Wyche Fowler ’62 delivered his
lecture, “The Roots of Terror: Saudi
Arabia and the Current Crisis,” on Mon-
day. See page 2.

Arts & Living 5-6

In an industry dominated by pre-fab
pop and hackneyed rock-rock, Radiohead
gives mainstream music listeners a rea-
son to continue living.

Perspectives 7-8

The real story on relationships.

Sports 9-12

Complete basketball coverage.