Fb Se eS oH
Meee hk
eee: py we es | "
; 4 <m. Al
KSDA
pasta ai ent

compete in modeling challenge

By BRENT BYARS
Staff Writer

Last Monday at midnight, a group of Math majors finished work on a very real problem. They were asked to
make a new evacuation plan for South Carolina’s coastal residents in the event of a hurricane. State officials in S.C.
have not suddenly turned to Davidson’s undergrads for help. Instead, DC is joining universities and elite high schools from around
the nation in the 17th Annual Mathematical Contest in Modeling. The contest is sponsored by the Consortium for Mathematics and
its Applications, and seeks to “challenge... students to clarify, analyze, and propose solutions to open-ended problems.”

Dr. Laurie Heyer, the group's sponsor in the project, noted that DC has competed in the past and received honorable
mention. She notes, however, that DC has not competed for the last several years. Dr. Heyer is also looking forward
to competing with schools that traditionally rival Davidson, including Duke University and the University of North Carolina.

The organization each year provides two problems and 4 days to teams of students and asks them to propose and
explain a solution to a real-life problem. This year, two teams of students began work on the project. Reflecting a
growing emphasis on technology-driven problem solving, both teams decided to use computer programs to solve their problems. One team wrote
and researched a prototype JavaScript program, only to see it crash when they tried to extend it to the entire
problem. “It was really disappointing that we worked all weekend and it didn’t work out the way we hoped,” said
Joe Rusinko.

Dr. Heyer was sorry to see the team fail to complete their project, although she applauded their efforts and added
that they did “a phenomenal amount of work.” The other team used the computer program Mathematica and techniques learned in
Dr. Heyer’s modeling class to solve the problem. Dr. Heyer added that the team worked up until the deadline, handing
the final drafts into her 15 minutes before midnight on Monday.

As part of the competition, the group wrote a proposed press release, announcing the development of a new evacuation plan
for S.C. The press release evaluates the effectiveness of employing a system by which coastal-bound lanes would be used to
alleviate traffic concerns and suggests that S.C. prohibit the evacuation of non-essential recreational vehicles and build more shelters on the
evacuation route.

The team will receive results back around April 1, when the organization will rank the entries on a scale from
“successful participant” to “outstanding.” The best solutions are published, and its writers will receive an unspecified cash prize and membership
to Mathematics organizations. Dr. Heyer emphasizes that it is most important for Davidson to seek recognition on a national level,
especially in these types of academic competitions.

Damage to property 2/18/01

Officer responded to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house to investigate a damaged property complaint. A rear glass window was
broken, but there was no other damage or signs of entry. The approximate value of the window is $50. There
are no suspects at this time.

Found property 2/18/01

A subject turned in a purse that was found near the golf course on Ridge Road. The owner was contacted
and the property was returned to its rightful owner.

Larceny from a building 2/18/01

Officer responded to the baseball concession stand to investigate a breaking & entering and larceny complaint. The complainant informed the
officer that when he arrived the door was open, but no one was in the area. Further investigation revealed that
the door was forced open and several cases of candy were missing. Damage to the door and frame are estimated
at approximately $100 and the stolen candy is valued at approximately $150. Investigation is pending.

Alcohol violation 2/17/01

Officer responded to a complaint to investigate a possible intoxicated subject near Ryburn Hall. Upon arrival, the officer observed several
people gathered around a subject sitting on a chair in the middle of the road. The crowd dispersed as the
officer approached, but the intoxicated subject was unable to respond quickly and the officer made contact with the subject. Further
investigation revealed that the subject was underage and had consumed alcoholic beverages. The subject was cited for an alcohol violation
and escorted to their room. This incident will be forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Larceny 2/16/01

Officer responded to the Baker Sports Complex to investigate a larceny of a clock radio from the lower racquetball court.
The approximate value of the clock radio is $25. Investigation is pending.

Medical assistance 2/13/01

Officer transported an injured student to the health center for further examination. The officer paged the on-duty nurse for assistance
and released the student to the nurse for treatment.

Compiled by Officer Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of Campus Police
