Fourth straight win continues streak unseen since 1997

WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 25, 2001

Lacrosse team needs victories in final two games to earn winning season

By Zeb Kelley
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team earned its fourth straight win last Friday in a 10-8 triumph over Ohio, extending a winning streak
that the program has not seen since 1997.

The team’s record stands at 7-8, and recent victories over Mt. St. Mary’s, Richmond, Vanderbilt, and Ohio may very well
give the team enough momentum to close out the season on a high note.

The Wildcats hosted Virginia Tech this afternoon, and will play at William & Mary on Saturday to close out the
year.

If the Wildcats manage two wins in these last games of the season, they will complete their first winning campaign
since 1997 (9-7) and only second winning season in program history.

The four-game winning streak has brought much excitement to the program.

“It finally came together,” said head coach Mary Schwartz.

Earlier in the year, the team failed to capitalize on opponents’ mistakes, said Schwartz.

But now the team has corrected that problem.

“It has not been because of one player, rather it was a team effort,” she said, adding that leadership from
seniors Stephanie Hunter and Lauren Kenchington, solid play from the bench, and important saves from goalie Becca Nussbaum have been
key.

Added Hunter: “We definitely started playing more together, working toward the same goal. We’ve been executing the game plan and
it’s been working to our favor.”

“We’re in a zone now and hopefully we will be able to take the momentum that we have built up
from these wins and use it to be successful,” said Nussbaum.

The Wildcats will face tough competition in the last two games. Along with rival Virginia Tech, the team will play
nationally-ranked William & Mary.

“We go in as an underdog, but we will try for the upset,” Schwartz said.

“As long as we believe in each other and what we’re trying to do and finish the season with a
winning record, we should be able to accomplish anything,” said Hunter.

By Andrea Lytle
Guest Writer

Traditionally, the Davidson crew team has traveled to the Southern Intercollegiate Rowing Association Regatta (SIRA) only as a learning experience,
for a chance to see some of the best clubs in the nation compete.

But this year, the Davidson crew team surprised those clubs and showed that it can no longer be taken lightly.

Although the varsity men’s team captured medals at each of its spring regattas this year, hardly anyone thought they could
achieve a top ranking amidst SIRA’s stiff competition.

Even when they made a strong showing in the earlier heats, placing second in the preliminaries and third in the
semi-finals, it seemed unlikely that a medal was in reach.

In the finals, however, the varsity men stepped up their performance and fought hard against Texas to tie for the
bronze medal.

As a matter of fact, the battle for third place was so close that the race officials could not decide
which boat finished first even after watching the videotape. The judges finally compared race times and found that the teams
completed the race in exactly 7:17.43 seconds, and granted both teams the bronze.

The men’s victory is even more impressive considering that crew at Davidson is a club sport and does not have
a full-time coach, unlike most of the other teams at SIRA.

Now, the varsity men will advance to the Champion Collegiate Regatta in Gainesville, Georgia, in mid-May. This will be the
first time in the history of Davidson crew that a boat will attend a national regatta.

Sophomore varsity rower Charlie Babcock remained humble about the accomplishment, choosing to praise his teammates.

“The attention we have received neglects the novice men and varsity women who also had spectacular races,” he said.

In fact, most members of the novice men’s and the varsity women’s boats agree that SIRA reflects some of their
strongest rowing this semester.

After easily placing second in their preliminary heat, the novice men faced a tough semi-final and were not able to
advance to the finals.

Although frustrated with the finish, the novice men were extremely pleased with their race.

“We felt proud of our tremendous improvement since the season’s beginning,” said freshman rower Dan O’Neill. “It really counts for
something having done so well against such big schools...even despite intense competition.”

The varsity women also felt they rowed their best possible race, finishing fourth in the finals of the lightweight category.

As sophomore rower Monica Siegenthaler said, “Although we did not necessarily do well as far as the placing, we felt
that we had our best race of the season. We rowed well together and gave it all our strength. That’s
all we could ask for in a race.”

Davidsonian Player of the Week

Billy Ryan

The junior hit his two homers of the year, both two-run shots, in the Wildcats’ 17-4 victory over VMI on
Sunday.

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Apr. 28 Wofford noon
Apr. 29 Wofford 1:00
May 1 Wake Forest 3:00
May 2 @ Wake Forest 3:00

LACROSSE
Apr. 25 Virginia Tech 5:00
