- The Davidsonian ~ O’Brien

From page 1

“Spin,” “Ambush,” and also from a very different work in progress, about a group of college graduates and the lives
they lead after college. Later, O’Brien closed the night with a book signing, reception, and a trip to the Depot
for drinks with students. Thursday morning, O’Brien met with English classes for question and answer sessions. He explained the long
hours and hard work poring over his writing, perfecting each word and sentence. In the way of advice for aspiring
writers, he said, “bad writing is using words from Wal-Mart... that out of the same 26 letters you can make
Ulysses, or Cosmo, or Playboy, they’re like DNA, building blocks... a [good] story doesn’t instruct, give lessons, explain anything, it
just is... and that a well-told story addresses not just the head but the whole body.”

Amid discussion of syntax and diction, O’Brien’s remarks also took on an overtly political tone. Admitting that he had “always
been pretty cynical,” O’Brien remarked that Vietnam was the sort of war that turns “idealism into betrayal in a hurry.”
In response to a student’s question about politics, O’Brien stated that the United States “is founded on great principles, but
also is the country of genocide against the Indians, slavery, and My Lai [massacred Vietnamese village].” O’Brien says that he
did the wrong thing by going to the war and lacked the courage to stay home. In the first story
of The Things They Carried, O’Brien writes, “I was a coward. I went to the war.” Clearly, O’Brien opposed, and
still opposes, the war but went because of fear and embarrassment: “men, by and large,” O’Brien said, “go to war
because they’re too embarrassed not to.”

At Thursday night’s lecture, Prof. Elizabeth Mills, who eloquently introduced O’Brien, spoke of O’Brien’s words, technique, and their impact on
the reader. O’Brien regaled assembled students and professors with his formative experiences as “Timmy,” one of his first literary experiences
reading The Boxcar Children, and his very first novel, Timmy in the Little League. O’Brien said that he was a
“wholesale swallower of the John Wayne myth” who coveted the glory of war. His experiences in Vietnam, however, shattered that
myth when it “collided with real life.” Before he concluded his visit, O’Brien thanked his hosts and the students and
professors he had met. He called Davidson a pleasure to visit and distinguished it from other colleges “where [one] watches
Bernard Shaw on CNN all night.” Before leaving his newly made Davidsonian friends, O’Brien hoped to cap his visit with
another trip to the Depot.

College Communications

Outpost, from page 1

Pondering the idea of a house on the Court since the 1970s. However, strong efforts began last semester when it
became clear the Outpost would soon be available. DIA representatives presented their case to the CCRL, plus the SGA and
the Patterson Court Council. PCC endorsed DIA’s petition last year, but with a catch. According to former PCC President Chad
Phillips (who served during proposals from both DIA and Fiji), PCC agreed to endorse DIA — but only until or
if Fiji decided to apply for the house. Fiji did so this semester, after the brothers took an official vote.
Phillips said, “I felt like the majority of the members on PCC would have preferred to have a group on
Patterson Court that would in the future we can use this experience as a building block.”

Unnikrishnan believes the discussion process helped DIA hone their arguments and strengthen their commitment. In addition, it provided DIA with
an opportunity to find out what diverse campus organizations thought of their plan. “As an open organization, it’s important to
get a sense of what people think.” If Vagt grants the petition, both Harris and Unnikrishnan feel DIA will bring
a new and unique perspective to theCourt. If DIA ends up moving into the old Outpost, it will be dry,
co-ed, and completely inclusive, making it more along the lines of the Black Student Coalition than the existing eating houses
and fraternities. Unnikrishnan believes a house on the Court would help DIA move from being an event-to-event organization to having
more consistent participation from members and the campus, even if that participation is just hanging out at the DIA house.

Strong efforts began last semester when it became clear the Outpost would soon be available. Unnikrishnan said there are no
plans to significantly redecorate. “The Outpost has a special place in all our hearts,” she acknowledged, saying that no one
wants to completely change it. She suggested that small changes to bring an international flavor to the house might be
in store, but added, “Hopefully the people will bring an international flavor to DIA.”

President Vagt declined to comment on the issue until he has reached a decision. But whether DIA’s petition is granted,
Harris said, “I’m sure they’re busy planning something as we speak.” If they do become a presence on the Court,
he said, “I think they’ll do very well.”

703-872-6261. As the nation’s fifth-largest passenger-carrying airline, US Airways strives to be the Carrier of Choice. And as we travel
through 205 airports daily, we can offer our employees some of the best travel privileges in the industry. The following
position is available in Winston-Salem:

CONSUMER AFFAIRS REPRESENTATIVES
Immediate Full Time (Year-round) and Summer (May through September with evening training starting in April) positions are available.

In this key role, you will maintain/retain customer loyalty to US Airways. This will be achieved by diplomatically responding to
passenger complaints/recommendations by letter or telephone, and determining circumstances or procedures involved when irregularities or problems result in customer inconvenience
through coordination with other departments. Additionally, you will maintain a consumer database and provide quantitative feedback with regard to consumer
trends and job productivity.

Ideal candidates will have a H.S. Diploma or equivalent, 2 years of experience in a telephone/call center environment or similar
customer service experience (e.g. retail, hotel & hospitality), and a background in communicating with consumers through written correspondence (writing abilities
will be assessed during the interview process). Knowledge of MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) is essential. Understanding of the airline
reservation system, ticketing, and passenger procedures is a plus, but not required. Competitive salaries, liberal travel privileges, and excellent work/life
balance are the hallmark of our outstanding programs.

For confidential consideration, please forward your resume and cover letter (indicating Job Code LC200495) to:
US Airways Recruiting, Attention: LC Marketing Recruiter, 2345 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22227.
E-mail: careers@usairways.com
Fax:

US Airways is committed to workplace diversity and, as an equal opportunity employer, seeks qualified candidates regardless of race, color,
sex, or national origin.
