Community Bikes —
suffer through first
weekend on campus

By Timothy Cook
News Editor

The Community Bicycle Program brought to Davidson College by Davidson Outdoors and the Student Government Association has hit a major setback over the last weekend. Nearly half of the bikes are in need of some repair after only one week of service. Of these nine, three are in almost total disrepair, most likely acts of pure vandalism and hooliganism.

DO bike mechanic Rob McKeehan ‘01 said the three totaled bikes “looked like they had been thrown off the second floor or run over by a car.” He pointed out that several locks were missing and that reflectors and signs were missing or damaged, but that the reflectors and signs were most likely due to the frozen temperatures of the weekend they arrived.

Most of the damage was cosmetic and required only regular maintenance. McKeehan said he didn’t mind working on the bike problems resulting from regular wear and tear. “They [the bikes] are not hard to maintain,” he said.

But he did say that the bikes that were severely damaged would have to be fixed somewhere else because DO does not have the resources to do such extensive work.

Junior Class President Bobby Pittenger commented that the destruction to the bikes was a blow to the program.

“We’re [Everyone that paid for the bikes] pretty disappointed with the blatant malicious behavior of a select few students.”

But he continued by saying positively, “We trust however that the student body will take it upon themselves and their friends to be responsible.”

President Vagt and Pittenger have both said that bike damage should fall under the code of responsibility. “It’s just like damage to a building,” said Pittenger.

McKeehan said that he hoped it would never come to this, but that it might take a real case against someone vandalizing a bike to raise awareness of the student body.

The program went into effect with the notion that the semester would end with at most two bikes in poor shape, but three in one week is unfortunate.

“I’m very confident that the student body loves these bikes and really wants to take care of them.”

Union,

from page 1

that has representation on every Trustee Committee.” Norfleet also added “this administration has accorded official recognition to and has encouraged both organizations.” He also seemed almost personally offended by the e-mail’s implications saying that the “blind e-mail that came sailing in here last week...would constitute a clear violation of our Honor Code if its author were a member of this community, as it contains more than one categorical lie about official college business.”

More than one student also objected to the way in which the e-mail was disseminated. Many were angered by the “spam” they found in their in-boxes. The ITS help desk was “barraged” with complaints. The web site explains that student addresses were taken from the student e-mail directory but the directory lists student addresses line-by-line along with the student’s name, and it is not clear how Thompson adapted the list to a bulk mailing. The administration has filed a complaint with Thompson’s e-mail service, Yahoo, under its restrictions against sending unsolicited “spam.”

(A note about sources: the writer of the original e-mail, who stated that “her” identity had to remain confidential, admitted that Anna Thompson was a “necessary pseudonym,” and required that all specific details remain confidential “to protect staff members.” This reporter and the public must evaluate the reliability of the information she provides accordingly.)

The Student Health Advisors are, from left to right: Stephanie Courchesne, Rebecca Moore, David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott

By Rebecca Moore
Health Advisor

Quick Quiz:
1. Even if you are not driving drunk, you can be in an alcohol-related accident.
True
False
2. About how many American lives are lost each year to drinking and driving?