aS

- Wednesday Night
Ladies’ Night with DJ Niz
Ladies in Free ALL NIGHT!!! (Great drink specials)

- Friday and Saturday
Enjoy Live Music from
National and Regional Artists!

Friday, May 4
Friday, May 11
Friday, May 18
Saturday, May 19
*Thursday, May 24: Tim Clark & Deja Vu
*Friday, May 25: Peace & Love
*Saturday, May 26: Breakfast Club
*Memorial Day Weekend--Advanced Tickets

Wax Gurus
Dexter Freebish

PLAN YOUR GRADUATION PARTY WITH US!!!

(704) 662-9940 (704) 662-9942 (fax)
21 and up Private Membership Club

Librarian of Congress discusses future of book

By Jessica MERING
News Editor

James H. Billington presented the annual Reynolds Lecture last Thursday in Love Auditorium. Billington’s lecture, “The Future of the Book,”
addressed the historical roles of published texts as well as their future in a technology-centered society. He identified books as
being responsible to “tell us not just where we have been but also who we are and who we are
becoming.”

Billington is a Pennsylvania native who was the valedictorian of his Princeton class. After studying at Oxford University on a
Rhodes scholarship, Billington served in the Army and spent time teaching at both Princeton and Harvard University. For thirteen years
he was the director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, during which time he founded the publication the
Wilson Quarterly. Billington became the thirteenth Librarian of Congress in 1987.

The timeline Billington described began in the fourth century, when bound pages of animal skins began to replace papyrus scrolls.
He commented on the emergence of the Gutenberg printing press in the mid-fifteenth century and its importance in furthering a
text-based world. Billington pointed out America’s unique claim of being the only country whose society has existed wholly during the
time of printed books. This is especially appropriate to the country’s ideological roots, since “book” and “liberty” share the same
Latin root.

The future entered the discussion when Billington contemplated what technological developments mean for the book. While books encourage their readers
to think about the contents and provide a physical reminder of the author, the Internet and television are primarily isolating
mediums. Television and video games have contributed to a collective shortened attention span. Even more dangerous, technology allows the immediate
promulgation of news and does not require any delay during which perspective can be developed.

Billington warned the audience that technology is not always implemented with the general good in mind: “The digital entrepreneurs have
already made so much money that their goal is not making more money but winning the game of cultural imperialism.”
He referred frequently to “cultural imperialism” and used it to describe the trend towards societal domination by technology.

While Billington advocates skepticism toward technological takeover, he was quick to champion a system which integrates technology with books: “Don’t
trust anyone with a computer who doesn’t also read books and listen to stories.” He was clear about the enormous
advantages and possibilities that the Internet brings. The Library of Congress is spearheading a website which brings the Library’s resources
to young children (www.americasstory.org).

The future of the book, Billington concluded, is hopeful if it co-exists with the abilities of technology. He foresees librarians
as becoming even more necessary in helping the general public to navigate the many types of resources available and to
“humanize” increasingly digital research processes. But no matter how history is documented, its endurance is necessary: “By preserving the dreams
of all our yesterdays we better understand the dreams others are dreaming today,” he said.
