The Davidsonian

Ah, shucks... Wrestler hopes to qualify for NCAA tourney

By Hinps Howard
Staff Writer

It’s called the shuck. It is a wrestling move used mostly by heavyweights, but Davidson junior Jeff Libersat has used
it to overwhelm many of his opponents this season in the 184-pound weight class. Here’s how it works: Libersat will
wait for his opponent to make an aggressive push for position. When that happens, Libersat sidesteps him, pulls his arm
down and around, and takes him down. It’s a big part of the reason that Libersat owns a 12-1 record
this season, including two wins in last weekend’s meet against UNC Pembroke and Howard University. It also helped Libersat earn
Southern Conference Wrestler of the Week honors on Jan. 10.

Honors: SoCon Wrestler of the Week, Jan. 10

And more importantly, it bolsters Libersat’s hopes to earn a berth in the NCAA tournament, which is what brought him
to Davidson three years ago. Libersat, a Jenkinstown, Pennsylvania, native, began his wrestling career at Chestnut Hill Academy. He was
one of the team’s top wrestlers, but not quite good enough to compete at a large Division I school. Davidson
was a perfect fit.

“I knew the Southern Conference would be a good conference to wrestle in to reach the NCAA tournament,” he said.

As a freshman, he finished in third place in the conference in the 167-pound weight class with a 20-8 record.
The next year, he transferred to the University of Pennsylvania to wrestle in a better league and be closer to
home. He says he was overwhelmed by the grueling practice schedule and difficult competition in the Ivy League, so he
transferred back to Davidson, where he sat out another year due to injury and the loss of eligibility that comes
with transferring twice.

Having rededicated himself to the sport and to Davidson, Libersat says he worked harder than ever this fall and has
shed any rust that might have built up over two years of inaction. His routine before matches is low-key. “I
just try to get someplace quiet and think. I think about winning,” he said. “I never think I am going
to lose going into a match. You have to believe that you’re going to win.”

Head coach Tom Oddo is excited about Libersat’s chances this season, but says he’s still got some work to do.
“He’s got a shot,” Oddo said. “He will be in condition physically; it’s just a matter of him developing a
second and third move that he can pull on the tougher opponents that will be ready for the ‘shuck.’ Once
they realize that he relies so heavily on this move, they will shut him down. If he can adapt over
the next few weeks, he will be able to beat those tougher opponents.”

Erin Berry

Davidson swimmers jump off the starting blocks Saturday afternoon in the Wildcats' last home meet of the season. The men’s
and women’s teams both claimed victory Saturday, and the win over College of Charleston was the first win of the
season for the men.

COMMENTARY

Diving into the CAA

This season marked the Colonial Athletic Association debut of the Davidson Swimming & Diving teams

By Jenn Higgins
Staff Writer

A possibility once considered dead by Davidson Athletics Director Jim Murphy was resurrected in part this year when the Davidson
swimming and diving program became an official member of the Colonial Athletic Association.

After being courted for more than two years, Davidson athletic officials last spring decided not to make the move into
the CAA. The final verdict came as the result of much deliberation over the issues of extended travel time and
likely conference instability within the next two years. Geographic locations of the member institutions as well as the fact that
three of the nine schools were preparing to make moves of their own within the next two years also influenced
the decision.

And while a move to the CAA was recognized as unfavorable for Davidson athletics as a whole, the men’s and
women’s swim teams have been afforded the opportunity to take their program to the next level in a legitimate Colonial
Athletic Association.

Men’s Sports (9): Basketball, Swimming, Track, Cross Country, Soccer, Tennis, Baseball, Golf, Wrestling

Women’s Sports (9): Basketball, Swimming, Track, Cross Country, Soccer, Tennis, Field Hockey, Volleyball, Softball

talented in the history of Davidson swimming. Its graduation and the departure of long-time head coach Rich DeSelm left the
swim team with plenty of new challenges to face this season: Finding a new coach, recruiting new swimmers, attempting to
keep swimmers on the team, the struggles of joining a new conference, problems with facilities. Beginning this season one could
say that the Davidson men’s and women’s swim teams had little to be optimistic about. A young team. A new
conference. A new coach. This is the true definition of “a rebuilding year.” The team’s captainsHockey, Lacrosse, Volleyball CAA Membership:
East do not hesitate to describe the underclassmen as ardent overachievers who are dedicated to excelling in the CAA over
the next few years. And they remain extremely praiseworthy of their new coaches, Jim Conlon and Craig Nisgor, who are
leading Davidson swimming down a new and winding path. Conlon describes the transition as a "step in the right direction
for the program here."

The CAA offers a number of things that will ultimately improve a blossoming Davidson swimming program. It is more competitive,
more recognized than the Southern Conference, and it allows for a higher level of recruiting. The biggest plus is that
it finally makes this Davidson swimming team part of an official conference. "We are proud that we are actually in
a conference now and that future teams will have the ability to become a dominant force in a competitive Division
I conference," said senior co-captain Kurt Hirsekorn. Hirsekorn alludes to the future of Davidson swimming in the CAA with confidence
and high praise for the direction the team is heading. The Class of 2000 was arguably the most — Moving
up to the CAA will help open up recruiting, and the level of competition is something Davidson swimming is ready
for."

This year, for the first time, Wildcats’ swimmers will experience their first conference championship meet. And unlike other years, they
are not going in as favorites to win. Although the roster is small compared to recent years, Hirsekorn says the
team is proof that strength isn’t necessarily always in numbers. It is found, he says, within those determined to make
the most of their chance to grow as a team. "When you are in a program that is good and
then are forced into a program that is better," Hirsekorn says, "How can you ever complain?"

By Burain Harbin Sports Editor

Change is good. For the Davidson men’s swim team, it proved a powerful catalyst Saturday afternoon as the Wildcats beat
College of Charleston 115.4-114.5 in Canon Pool. "Some folks swam events that they wouldn’t have usually," head coach Tom Conlon
said. "But Charleston didn’t have enough swimmers for some events, so I knew that we could fill some empty lanes
and pick up extra points."

The one-point victory marked the first win of the season for the men’s team, which has struggled to remain competitive
in a season filled with much larger opponents. But things evened out Saturday. "I knew it would be tight," said
Conlon, referring to Saturday’s outcome. "We (Davidson and College of Charleston) are comparable in talent and in numbers. It was
nice to be on equal footing, so to speak, after swimming against big schools like East Carolina and Georgia Tech."

Going into the final two events of the meet, the men's score was all even at 97.5. Senior Kurt Hirsekorn
took the penultimate event, the 200 breast, with a time of 2:06.92 helping Davidson (1-7) build a 10-point cushion going
into the 400 free relay. Senior Matt Clifford, juniors Nick Blackwell and Steve Reece, as well as freshman Robert Koch
secured the men's first victory of the year by placing second in the relay. "It was very relieving to get
the win," said Hirsekorn. "We really wanted to get a win for the seniors before we all left."

Conlon echoed Hirsekorn’s sentiments, saying that the team considered the victory a "gift to the seniors." The leadership of Hirsekorn,
along with co-captain Graham Gravely, has helped keep the swimmers focused after a tough fall season, according to Conlon, but
Hirsekorn doesn’t feel that way. "The captains and the seniors have known that it is important to keep things together,
especially early when we didn’t have a coach or a pool. But everybody is swimming so well right now that
our leadership is a complement to this team rather than any kind of outright necessity."

The women’s dominating 155-86 victory over the Cougars is more evidence in support of Hirsekorn’s claim. The women clinched the
victory with three events left to swim. Led by a trio of two-event winners, the team captured eight of the
possible 13 events. Junior Kendra Berner won the 200 free and 100 free, with the Wildcats (3-6) finishing second and
third in those events too. In the distance events (500 and 1000 free), freshman Erin Rosintoski came away with first-place
finishes. Freshman Sara Laws earned victories in the 400 IM and 200 back, while freshman Carrie Rafer edged out her
sister, Brandy, a member of the Cougars, for second in the 200 back. Rounding out the individual victors was freshman
Vanessa Witt, as she won the 200 breaststroke event.

"We had a lot of really good swimmers," said Rosintoski, whose victory in the 500-meter freestyle helped clinch the Wildcats’
victory. "We knew that every point counted so we tried to remember that every race, every finish was important."

The Wildcats now look ahead to their last meet of the season at Duke, a team both the men and
women beat last year. Following the Duke meet, Davidson will begin preparing for the Colonial Athletic Association Championships Feb. 21-24.
