Editorial | In light of the recent CCRL and other organizations' deliberations and in preparation for the upcoming campus-wide social
forum, The Davidsonian would like to address the issue of party hours. The current policy does not allow weekday parties
to continue after midnight. Recent efforts by campus police have made sure this policy is strictly enforced, but closing parties
at midnight can potentially cause more harm than good. When a party closes at midnight, usually the height of a
weekday party, students are left with few social options. Thus, the likelihood of students causing disturbances off the Court increases
significantly. Closing a party at midnight does not guarantee that students will retire quietly to their residences. Most likely, they
will seek out alternative locations, most likely down to Martin Court or even off-campus in order to relax or continue
to party. Forcing students to find alternative party locations is dangerous. It is a danger to the peace and quiet
enjoyed by sleeping or studying students and it is a danger to partygoers’ safety. When students move their parties off
campus, they are under less supervision than they would be if the party remained on the Court, where campus police
and Risk Managers can respond to rowdy and dangerous behavior. Events where students cause major disturbances or endanger themselves or
others without question call for campus police intervention. Campus police officers are responsible for the safety of this campus and
at no time should they ever overlook a potentially harmful situation. However, it is dispiriting to those who enjoy relaxing
on Patterson Court to close a party at midnight when there is no apparent danger or disturbance to others. The
upcoming Social Forum on November 14 will provide the perfect setting in which to discuss party hours and a host
of other issues concerning this campus’ social life. And if we, as students, truly want to make a difference in
the life of this community, then it is our duty to attend.

The Davidsonian
@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin

Managing Editors
Tim Cook, Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin, Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editor
Derek Loh, Tim Cook

Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser, Jimmy Swansbrough

Photography Editors
Advertising & Business Managers
Rick Bold, Aaron Houck

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR
WIN (T TOK NOSES HO YEARS TO LEND WIG PEOPLE out OF THE WILDERNESS by WILEY NOW-2E QU. CORN Z
states past and present it. From its revolutionary rise to world hegemony, the United States has blazed an original

Partying by the book, frat-style

We are two concerned members of Patterson Court and feel there is a large communication gap between houses on the
court and the Public Safety office. The Red Book rules say when we are allowed to have parties, how long
we can serve booze there and/or have it in the house but they are not being consistently followed by the
campus police. The Davidson College Handbook has a chapter that specifically deals with Patterson Court parties that occur during the
week. Rule 16 states that weekday parties must end the service of alcohol by midnight and that all alcohol must
be out of the house by 1 am. And, it goes on to say that the party may continue with
music as long as the Risk Manager wants to stay on duty as per rule 16.C. A week ago our
house was having a party. As per rule 3.B(2), when the gathering grew to an event over 40 individuals we
designated a Risk Manager to supervise the party. When said Risk Manager went to the Public Safety Office to obtain
the sacred Red Risk Manager Shirt the police were a) not there and b) when found were unwilling to give
us the glorious garment. Granted it was 11:30 or so, but in accordance with the rules we waited for 40
people, tried to obtain the shirt and should have been allowed to party late into the night as our Risk
Manager had brought his sleeping bag. (Ok, not really) This wasn’t to be however, as when the officers arrived at
the house at 11:50 they acted like they were doing us a favor when they so graciously offered us ten
more minutes to party. The officer cited a noise complaint, which is curious because we were the ones who informed
them of our gathering only minutes prior. Since we had no proof that the complaint was false and more importantly
if it was directed toward our party, we didn’t press the issue at the time. But kicking us outbecause of
noise complaints doesn’t help anything. After years of service here, we are sure that the police know by now that
partiers, when kicked out of houses, just wander down to the senior apartments where we wake up God knows how
many people. And then they just chase us around, and that doesn’t solve anything, now does it? We feel that
the police are acting outside of the rules and breaching our rights as written into the Davidson Handbook, which we
even had a copy of to show them and question their acts when they arrived. We try and follow the
rules because we want to work with the school. If we are doing something wrong, then by all means shut
us down. But, when we are doing all that we can to abide by the rules, then by God let
us party!

Brian Werstler, Pi Kappa Alpha ‘04
Timothy Cook, Pi Kappa Alpha ‘04

Time’s right for U.S. Exceptionalism

American Exceptionalism is a historical and political theory that contends that the United States is unique from all nations, a
trail which other nations have not been able to successfully follow. The avoidance of a socialist state, the economic fate
of almost all other industrialized nations, is evidence for those who advocate this theory. In this war with Osama bin
Laden, the Taliban, and other groups that harbor terrorists, the theory of American Exceptionalism is being invoked to justify our
response. But the diplomatic and military efforts are failing to meet the high standard that American Exceptionalism demands.

American Exceptionalism is the theoretical foundation for the broad and unassailable goals of the Bush Administration. On Sept. 20, in
his speech to Congress, President Bush declared the objectives of the American response. Undeniably, they were noble and extremely difficult,
if not impossible, to criticize. Who can question “a fight of all who believe in progress and pluralism, tolerance and
freedom?” To me, these extremely ambitious aspirations are new sources of American Exceptionalism. What other nation has ever proclaimed that
it is fighting for the human freedoms of civilization, besides the United States?

While these presidential aims cannot be reviled, what should be criticized are the common, banal, and unexceptional means that the
United States employs to reach their high-minded goals. Any country with our military might could bomb an almost defenseless country
like Afghanistan. Rather than relying almost solely on unilateralist retaliation, an exceptional country would actually form an international coalition to
fight the Taliban and save the starving and desperate people of Afghanistan. Indeed, a truly extraordinary nation would actually play
the role of an honest broker in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the Kashmir dispute until the violent, and potentially catastrophic,
disputes were settled. Lastly, a country without historical and political equal would be able to recognize past mistakes and develop
new, unprecedented strategies to achieve its incredible goals.

If you are a believer in American Exceptionalism, now is the time for our country to prove itself again. If
those words penned by our Founding Fathers really did create an incomparable society of freedom, liberty, and justice for all,
then the words, and subsequent deeds, of America will shine through this national and international crisis. On the other hand,
if you disavow or are ambivalent about this theory, now is a time where your views could change. The stage
is set for America to be exceptional. For the sake of universal peace and freedom, let us hope our country
succeeds.

Sean Brooks

Questioning America is not anti-American

In response to Taliban letter to editor (Nov. 1)

I resent being labeled as anti-American. Since when does being a critic of the United States make you anti-American? If
this is the case, then I assure you George Orwell is tossing and turning as we speak. When proposing a
dissenting view is anti-American, America is dead. I refuse to stand blindly behind my leader, and I find it outrageous
that anyone could even propose such an idea in this country. The notion of trusting the government is just plain
offensive to me. I believe that is what offended Russ White as well. I would like to remind the brothers
of Phi Delt that money, not virtue, runs this country. If it’s profitable at the moment, they are sizing you
up for star-spangled blinders. Everyone has a duty to make sure they aren’t wearing their blinders along with their reds,
whites, and blues. The point of my article was simple: the American media will not give you the whole story,
and neither will George W. Bush.

“Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.” —Wendell Phillips, abolitionist

Greg Harris, ‘04
