**The Davidsonian**

By Drew Prickett

Volleyball splits weekend matches
‘Cats defeat Chattanooga, but fall to Western Carolina in three

Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s volleyball team played two important Southern Conference matches this past weekend, beating Chattanooga on Saturday before falling
to Western Carolina. The Wildcats (10-11, 7-5) prevailed on the road in Chattanooga, 30-20, 16-30, 30-24, 30-23. The victory was
the third in as many tries for the team, a feat it had not accomplished in the season. The ‘Cats
dominated from the start, taking a 10-3 lead and never looking back. It was a team effort, as four players,
Jacqueline Ortega, Meredith Lorenz, Roberta Quis, and Rebecca Teichgraeber registered double-doubles. Quis led the team with 16 kills and Kristin
Higbee provided 49 assists in the match.

The Wildcats’ winning ways, however, came to a halt the following day when they traveled to Western Carolina. The Catamounts
beat the ’Cats in three games, 30-23, 30-22, 30-18. Jacqueline Ortega displayed her senior leadership once again as she notched
12 kills. Meredith Lorenz provided 11 digs in the match and setter Kristin Higbee had 28 assists. The Wildcats seek
to avenge the loss to Western Carolina and get back to the .500 mark when they face off in Belk
Arena this Wednesday at 5 p.m.

Lindsay Ferguson

Freshman Meredith Lorenz was one of three Wildcats to record a coveted double-double in the volleyball team’s win against UT-Chattanooga
this past Saturday. She was joined by junior Rebecca Teichgraeber and senior Roberta Quis in the achievement.

A light-hearted commentary on Club Roller Hockey

By Evan McCormick
Special Contributor

The Wildcat roller hockey team capped the regular season with a spectacular 8-7 come-from-behind victory over the Whalers to secure
a playoff bid. The squad shocked the hockey world, overcoming a devastating 7-4 deficit in the last 5:34 of play.
This recent triumph will certainly be remembered as the most exciting and impressive last-minute victory in the team’s history.

Team captain Jay Hollis furnished the late-game heroics, scoring two of the team’s final three goals, the last with only
twenty seconds remaining. Trip Cook, responding positively and forcefully to recent media pressure, netted three goals in a truly dominating
performance. Andrew Foerster, Richard Connolly, and Jim Davidson also contributed to the offensive output with timely goals.

The squad entered the game with marked determination to avenge a loss several weeks earlier. Players were aware that a
victory would result in another playoff run and would bring them one step closer to the league championship. The Wildcats
opened the game in a flurry of speed and physical abuse, attacking the opposition and firing countless shots. Their efforts
resulted in a comfortable 2-1 lead going into the second period.

The second period, however, was more mistake-ridden than the first. As a result of the squad’s mediocre play, the Whalers
pulled even at 3-3. The third period was fireworks-filled and proved to be the highlight of not only the game
but also the season. When asked about the events of the third period, Hollis responded, “That was easily the most
exciting game I have been involved in. I’m glad that I went to the bathroom before the opening face-off.”

At the onset of the period, the Whalers suddenly started to dominate the game, shooting pucks past Davidson’s goalie with
relentless frequency. The Whalers captured a 5-3 lead as the Wildcat goalie, affectionately known as "Game paces," struggled to keep
up.

Around Campus

Laura Puckett ‘04
St. Paul, MN
Undecided Major
Years Experience in Sport: 7 years
Favorite Pump-up Song: “Let’s Get Down to Business” from Mulan
In your opinion, who is the best role model for youth today?
“Ann Bancroft, the explorer, because she looked within herself and made her passion her life.”

Erin Berry
Brooke Kittinger ‘03
Wilmington, NC- Spanish major, Economics minor
Years Experience in Sport: 10 years
Favorite Pump-up Song: None
In your opinion, who is the best role model for youth today?
“Jackie Joyner-Kersee is a great role model for young runners today. She displays amazing versatility and portrays a positive image
for her sport.”

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY
Liz Gross ‘03
Chesterland, OH
English Major
Years Experience in Sport: 8 years
Favorite Pump-up Song: “Higher,” by Creed
In your opinion, who is the best role model for youth today?
“My friend Erin. Her memory always reminds me of the importance of joy in life and that it is the
effort you put into it that counts the most.”

Known as “Swiss Cheese,” offered little defense. Frustrations began to boil and resulted in the ejection of winger Davidson, who
had a few choice words for the referee. When confronted about his foul language, Davidson responded, “That was absolutely the
worst #@&*! call I have ever seen! That ref should be !#@$* fired.”

The Wildcats were energized by Davidson’s heated comments and narrowed the goal deficit to two. Unfortunately, the team failed to
sustain pressure and quickly fell behind 7-4 with only 5:34 remaining on the clock. Weston Waxweiler pontificated about the team’s
trouble, “We were in trouble.” He added, “Our only option was to throw the kitchen sink. However, we didn’t throw
the kitchen sink—we shot it out of a bazooka.”

The Wildcats skated with a sense of panic, knowing that only the Taliban was more outmatched than the ‘Cats’ current
situation left them. Davidson struck quickly on a Trip Cook goal as he sliced his way through the opposing defenders
and found the upper right corner with a blistering wrist shot. Cook commented, “I have been working on my release
all year. I wanted to improve my release time so I could surprise goalies with quick shots—and it finally paid
off.”

The squad suffered another major setback as defenseman Connolly was ejected for hitting-from-behind. When asked about Connolly’s penalty, Davidson responded,
“Another stupid #!*%* call!” Connolly’s response was moderately more tactful, “I thought it was a bad call. Even though he
slammed into the boards face first and with impressive force, it was his fault.”

The Wildcats, skating without 25% of their starting lineup, needed a miracle. Hollis and Cook answered the call. Applying constant
pressure, Hollis brought the team within one goal on an unprecedented behind-the-net-off-the-goalie’s-back goal. Cook completed his hat trick at the
1:20 mark on a pretty one-timer from the slot. The Wildcats had pulled even at 7-7 and seemed destined to
win.

The Whalers, however, made a last-ditch effort to regain the lead on a breakaway. Davidson players looked on in hopeless
despair as a Whaler forward barreled down on their goaltender. Foerster remembers thinking “Swiss Cheese will save us.” Amazingly, the
Wildcats’ goaltender sprawled out and blocked the shot with his head—teammates were ecstatic.

The Wildcats responded by gathering the puck, skating the length of the rink, and mounting their own attack. Suddenly, Hollis
found himself open in front of the net and called for the puck. Foerster, zigging and zagging behind the net,
noticed Hollis and fed him the puck for the winning tally. Hollis threaded a wicked snapshot through the goalie’s legs,
capping the remarkable comeback. Hollis, whose heroics were immediately compared to the likes of Hulk Hogan body-slamming Andre The Giant,
recalls the play, “Andrew made a great pass, all I had to do was put it home. It was a
great ending to an action-packed game.”

The Wildcats will enter the playoffs with the dramatic win. Richard Connolly was impressed with his teammates’ determination, “Despite the
difficult situation, we never quit. This shows how strong we are, both physically and emotionally.” Davidson will play the Checkers
this week in the first round—a team easily defeated 11-1 in the regular season.
