Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Volume 92, Number 19

Wait Whited

The lacrosse team is off to its best start in school history with a record of 3-4. See story in
Sports, page 16.

Spring break brings adventure and service

By Colin Eagan
Staff Writer

Ah, spring at Davidson. For many, the change of season represents midterms, pretty flowers, and, of course, spring break. Though
the weeklong vacation is typically viewed as an opportunity for relaxation, many students this spring sprung not for suntans, but
for service.

Need a Break Alternative?

“It was a totally new experience,” reflected KK Baird ’04 on her recent, not-so-common spring break activities. Baird was one
of over 52 students who participated in the Alternative Breaks program at Davidson. The program, which hosts service-themed trips in
the fall and spring, sent students to five locations this spring break, including Detroit and New Orleans.

Program Head Taylor Herbert ’01 suggests that the purpose of an Alternative spring break lies far from kicking back and
relaxing. “The ultimate goal of these trips is to use the trip experience as a catalyst in order to direct
participants into lives of social action and service,” he explained. “The core components of a good break are exposure to
a challenging and novel situation to the participant, direct service at the site, strong interactions with members of the community,
and thoughtful reflection about the situations encountered and one’s role in it.”

Baird and ten others traveled with Alternative Breaks to Detroit, where they worked with the Save Our Sons and Daughters
program, begun by mothers who have lost their children as a result of gun violence in the city. Here, Davidson
student vacationers learned tactics and strategies for combating urban violence in schools, and worked at length one-on-one with local students,
discussing peace and how to achieve it.

“It was a great experience,” reflected Baird, “getting to see what goes on in an inner-city school, and also being
able to talk to the students and hear them share their feelings about violence. It’s really hard to describe in
words—it was just an amazing experience, and I would recommend Alternative Breaks to anyone who is considering going on one.”

Reaching Out to Nicaragua

Other organizations on campus sponsored service-oriented spring breaks this year as well.

See Break, page 4

ATC tightens up

By Lindy Baldwin
Staff Writer

Anyone who’s ever faced the prospect of selling 4,000 cookies knows that funding is often the Achilles’ heel of student
organizations, and any funds are always welcome and usually needed. At Davidson, the Activities Tax Council (ATC) has control over
student organization funding—or at least, it should.

News 2
Briefly 5
Arts & Living 10
Perspectives 13
Sports 16

Beach-Verhey puts faith to work as Lilly program director

By Richard Vinson
Editor in Chief

Davidson College recently named Visiting Professor of Religion Timothy Beach-Verhey the director of its new Program for the Theological Exploration
of Vocation. This fledgling office is the culmination of the Lilly Endowment’s four-year, $1.9 million grant to the college. As
program director, Beach-Verhey will administer a broad array of new initiatives designed to help students, faculty, alumni, and the larger
Davidson community explore the relationship between faith and work.

A self-described student of practical ethics, Beach-Verhey expressed the belief that the program addresses an acute need in today’s world.
“The [program] grows out of the recognition that people today, with the dominance of the marketplace, have lost their ability
to talk about their lives with a deeper sense of meaning,” he remarked. People may communicate and think about that
sense of deep significance through religious or other core beliefs, but, as Beach-Verhey confessed, “I have a strong sense that
everyone is searching for connection and meaning.”

---Senate’s Special Projects Fund

Recent problems have stripped the ATC of some of its authority and made the SGA a faster, easier source of
funds. In order to correct these problems, a new committee will be formed to study the relationship between these two
organizations. The SGA has traditionally been more than happy to dip into its Special Project Fund to help out new
or struggling organizations. This well-intentioned practice, according to SGA President Joey Harris, has had some unintended consequences. Many organizations have
fallen into the practice of applying directly to SGA for funds, bypassing ATC altogether. However, the funding guidelines specifically state
that groups should not approach the SGA for funds unless recommended by the ATC.

Randy Skattum, the ATC chair, believes this practice arose out of confusion over ATC procedures. ATC conducts two main allocations,
Spring (for the fiscal year) and Fall (for “new ideas, new investments”), at which student organizations present budget proposals. The
ATC then makes recommendations to the SGA, which has the final say. Many students are under the misconception that the
ATC’s role is limited to these two meetings. (The ATC also meets on demand throughout the year.) Unaware students took
to applying directly to SGA for money from the Special Projects fund. In doing so, many organizations discovered that SGA
was a far easier source of money. SGA doesn’t demand a written proposal and budget; ATC does. Furthermore, SGA deliberations
are conducted in the presence of applicants, whereas the ATC deliberates privately.

Skattum likened this to an “Ask Mom, Ask Dad” situation, where one parent (the SGA) is more likely to say
yes. “Why go to the ATC,” he asked, if an organization can avoid scrutiny and paperwork by simply applying to
SGA? Harris also pointed out that the ATC is more rigorous in analyzing student requests.

The new program, then, will focus on restoring some of the vocabulary that describes and enables that search. More specifically,
it will encourage students and others “to talk and to think self-critically” about how that search applies practically to one’s
vocation. Professor of Religion John Kuykendall recalled that some of these concerns were foremost in the minds of the committee
that drafted the grant proposal. Kuykendall acted as “convener” of the committee organized by President Bobby Vagt to explore the
possibility of securing one of the Lilly grants. They began working last year and met on a weekly basis for
most of the second semester to prepare the proposal. The program that emerged from their work emphasized exploration of vocation
on three levels. “I think of it as three concentric circles,” noted Kuykendall. First, the program is intended to “discover
able and committed Christian people who are willing to consider the ordained ministry,” Kuykendall explained. This emphasis corresponds to one
of the stated goals of the Lilly Endowment.

College Communications Dr. Timothy Beach-Verhey was...

INSIDE THIS WEEK

On the campaign trail
Two Davidson students will share their experiences of participating in national and local elections at a special forum on Friday.
NEWS page 3

Choice group gains charter
The Reproductive Rights Alliance of Davidson (RRAD) was granted its charter by the SGA on Tuesday. Now that they’re official,
the group has big plans for the future.
NEWS page 5

Universal language
If dance is a universal language, then this spring’s Dance Ensemble performance was a concert of many voices sounding out
their unique messages. Though the critique doesn’t do the experience justice, a few words of praise are in order.
ARTS & LIVING page 7

Of statues and foreign policy
The decision of the Taliban in Afghanistan to destroy the 2000-year-old Bamiyan Buddhas has provoked sharp criticism from the international
community.
PERSPECTIVES page 12
