Owen Barrow, Hannah Fuhr, By Linpy BALDWIN, Staff Writer

Voters often complain that their choice of candidates is between the lesser of two evils. The Davidson student body experienced the opposite problem last week as they tried to choose between many qualified, likeable candidates for SGA. But when the dust settled and all the votes were counted, nine men and women emerged as next year’s crop of SGA senators. The Davidsonian sent the newly elected representatives a short questionnaire to help the student body get to know them better. The most thoughtful, interesting, and unusual answers are printed below.

Rising Senior Senators

Name: Bobby Pittenger
Position: Senior Class President
Hometown: Charlotte, North Carolina
Goals for the Coming Year: “I would love to see a lake campus shuttle, clocks in classrooms. I am in the middle of doing an SGA newsletter to tell people what’s going on and how they can get involved. Should be released next week.”
Campaign Slogan: “Seniors rule the world! Just kidding. I didn’t really have a campaign slogan.”
Message for the Student Body: “I love every single student on the campus. I really do. Everyone’s got something really interesting about them.”
Biggest Recent Mistake: “Probably the most ridiculous thing I’ve done is go to the ACDC concert this past Saturday night with some friends. Never again.”
Favorite Thing to Do: “My two most favorite things to do on campus (besides studying) are debate campus issues at the SGA meetings on Tuesday nights and going to Tom Bennett’s ‘small group’ every Wednesday morning at 6:55 AM.”

Name: Kay McCloy
Position: Senior Class Senator
Hometown: Panama City, Florida
Goals for the Coming Year: “I certainly hope to learn a lot about what truly goes on at this school. I’m excited about being able to have an influence on the outcome of the decisions that SGA makes.”
SGA’s Biggest Strength is...: “The people that are involved in it. I think the representatives and officers in SGA are really serious about what they are doing and hope to actually have a true impact on what goes on at Davidson.”
Favorite Study Spot: “I have to move around a lot or I get restless so I work upstairs in the library on the balcony and then move back to my apartment or to the Union (sometimes I need a little bit of noise).”
If you could hand-pick one SGA member from the campus, who would it be?: “Dave Love because he could add some serious diversity to any group of people. He would take the job seriously but would also have a sense of humor about it.”

Name: Allison Perry
Position: Senior Class Senator
Hometown: Charlotte, North Carolina
Goals for the Coming Year: “I'd like to get the Davidson community more involved in activities outside of Davidson” — for example, Allison was part of last year’s battle to remove the Confederate flag from the top of the South Carolina State House. She’d also like to improve communication between SGA and the student body by creating an SGA bulletin board in Chambers or in the Union and encouraging students to come to the meetings.
SGA’s biggest strength is...: “Being a mediator between students and administrators. Foster [Haseldon, SGA president 1998-1999] was really involved in getting student desires and wishes to the administration.”
Previous Experience: Allison served as the BSC senator her freshman, sophomore, and junior years.

Rising Junior Senators

Name: Kevin Epps
Position: Junior Class President
Hometown: Athens, Georgia
Goals for the Coming Year: “[SGA Senators] should work more on getting the word out about the issues being discussed in the SGA. We can do this through the web page, the public folder forum, and word of mouth.”
Other Projects: “I hope to work on the parking problem, enact a video check-out policy in the library, more large work tables in the library, CatCards at the new grocery store (whatever it may be), start a lake campus shuttle, Charlotte shuttle, and an airport shuttle through the Vamonos van, and get the online forum up and running.”
Favorite Activities: “I love to play golf when I have the time and love to travel around the southeast (i.e. the Masters and Georgia Bulldog football games).”

Name: Gray Patterson
Position: Junior Class Senator
Hometown: Columbia, South Carolina
Goals for the Coming Year: Installing CatCardReaders on all copy machines in the library, and possibly off-campus at local businesses. Gray also hopes to resurrect the practice of allowing students to make change at the Union Café and change the meal plan to allow students to take food out of Commons.

What should SGA improve?: “We need to work on getting student views back to the administration. I think [we should work on] assessing student opinion and throwing its weight around more.”

If you could hand-pick one SGA member from the campus, who would it be?: Patrick Rice. Gray feels Patrick’s strong opinions on PCC would make him a valuable member. “I think it’s important that PCC interests continue to be represented on the SGA.”

Name: Graham Watson
Position: Junior Class Senator
Hometown: Richmond, Virginia
Goals for the Coming Year: “One of the big things [I think we should accomplish] is getting the word out. It’s important for us to know what students want; it’s important for students to know who we are.”
Previous Experience: “I’ve had a long history in student government as treasurer. It started back in elementary school, I think in the fourth grade.” Graham served as treasurer in high school all four years. He was also a sophomore class senator and part of SGA’s self-study committee, which examined SGA by-laws.
What does SGA need to improve?: “We can be kind of reactionary.” Reacting to student opinion is “part of our job,” but Graham hopes that the SGA will “work on taking the initiative.”
Favorite Study Spot: “Well, I like to work in the library, but I stay out of the basement because it’s too depressing.”

Rising Sophomore Senators

Name: Hannah M. Fuhr
Position: Sophomore Class President
Hometown: Bad Kreuznach, Germany
Goal for the Coming Year: “I am rather sad to see that many students don’t seem to have too much confidence in the SGA. Some doubt that the SGA does anything at all because they haven’t seen much of what the SGA has done (except “big things” such as the community bikes, etc.) It seems like a vicious circle since the lack of interest (in the SGA) among many students causes the SGA to have less effectiveness. If students would offer ideas and constructive criticism more openly the SGA would know better in which direction to work to satisfy the students’ requests and wishes.”
Campaign Slogan: Unleash the Fuhr-y
Embarrassing Culture Shock Incident: “One of the first days in class, I needed an eraser. However, since we were taught British English I used a different terminology to ask some guy for one, namely a rubber rather than an eraser. The look on his face was more than enough of an education in word choice.”

Gray Patterson 13%
Bobby Pittenger
Allison Per

Name: Owen Barrow
Position: Sophomore Senator
Hometown: Raleigh, North Carolina
Goals for the Coming Year: “One: Create an effective flow of information out of and into the SGA’s decision-making processes. Two: Create a more positive interaction between Patterson court activities and union activities.”
Campaign Slogan: Owen Barrow, Straight Up. “Anything punny.”
Past Experience: Owen has been a Student Council member since sixth grade. He served on a National Student Council representing Central North Carolina and worked to provide information to area student councils; the National Student Council also helps individual student governments work together on common goals.
What does SGA need to improve?: “[Outgoing Freshman senator] Bernard van der Lande hit the nail on the head the other night at the SGA meeting. He said it’s important to have information going out to the student body, but it’s also important to have information coming in. We need to work on communication back and forth.”
Traumatic Childhood Memory: “At camp, a number of years ago, I got down on one knee and sang ‘You’ve Lost That Lovin’ Feeling’ to a very special lady, who subsequently pointed, laughed, and ran away — tragic.”

Name: Charles Washington
Position: Sophomore Senator
Hometown: Newark, NJ
Goals for the Coming Year: “During this term I will develop a way of alerting my constituents of all issues that potentially involve or concern them. In addition to delivering information to the class of 2004, I will make it easier for students to deliver ideas and concerns to me.”
Campaign Slogan: The Choice is Clear.