Matt Whited

Senior Aaron Patton competes in the final heat of the men’s open event last weekend in Atlanta.

Crew team travels to Atlanta for regional competition

By ANDREA LYTLE
Guest Writer

The men’s crew team traveled to Georgia last weekend to compete in the Atlanta Erg Sprints.

Because this indoor rowing event is the regional qualifying round for the world championships, the races were highly competitive.

Despite the increased competition, Davidson still managed to send three novice men to the finals, as well as senior Aaron
Patton for competition in the open men’s event.

Freshmen Matt Whited and Dan O’Neill finished in sixth and seventh place, respectively, and Patton ended up in fifth.

Sophomore John Franklin finished his first heat in seventh place and surpassed his personal-best time, but could not advance to
the finals due to overexertion in the preliminary race.

Surprisingly, the men’s lightweight event turned out to be the toughest for Davidson. Although rowers Luke O’Hara, Charlie Babcock, and
Ragy Ragheb posted respectable times, they were edged out of the finals by the stiff competition.

Regardless of the final standings, the event gave all participants an excellent perspective on the upcoming rowing season.

“I think the best thing for us was that it was a good motivation,” Whited said. “We know exactly what
we need to work on to be competitive.”

Added O’Neill: “We all had a real sense of accomplishment this weekend... It was a great opportunity to build team
unity and experience.”

Patton said this meet was only a beginning.

“The men have set some high goals for this season,” the former novice coach said. “This is the first step
in reaching them.”

Wrestling drops two matches

PRESS RELEASE
Sports Information Department

For the second straight weekend, Davidson hosted a tri-meet in Belk Arena, but this time dropped both matches to UNC
Greensboro, 19-13, and Duke, 29-10. In the other contest, Duke took out the Spartans 27-10.

Davidson falls to 6-8 for the 2000-01 campaign and 0-2 in the Southern Conference.

UNC Greensboro (4-6, 1-2) tallied its first SoCon victory for the year while Duke improves to 11-5. Davidson will be
hosting its final home meet of the year on February 7 in a SoCon showdown with Appalachian State.

The first contest is scheduled to start at 7 p.m., in Belk Arena.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
February 7, 2001

Women’s tennis tops Asheville to open season; Men fall to South Carolina

PRESS RELEASE
Sports Information Department

The 2001 season opened on a high note for the Davidson women’s tennis team as they defeated UNC Asheville, 7-0.
This was the first match of the season for both teams.

Kelley Cantrell and Gayle Jones proved to be a winning combination against UNC Asheville. Doubles opened the match with freshmen
Katherine Hatch and Lindsay Offutt (#2) making an impressive Davidson debut, downing Sarah Cox and Nancy Livesay, 8-0. At number
one doubles, sophomore Yasamina Hilu and junior Elizabeth Moreno pulled through in a close 8-6 contest.

In singles action, Davidson swept all six matches without dropping a set. Junior Kelley Cantrell (#4) and Moreno (#2) each
won their second sets at love. Davidson will next be at High Point University on February 13.

The men’s team lost to the South Carolina Gamecocks 5-2 on Sunday afternoon at the Knobloch Tennis Center. Davidson opened
the match by winning the doubles point and taking an early 1-0 lead. The tandem of Billy Boykin and Whit
Hansen took the number-one double 8-6 while Rob Gould and Chad Winebarger sealed the double points at no. 2 with
an 8-4 victory.

The Wildcats picked up their other point at No. 6 singles with a 6-1, 7-6 (5) win by Bryan Stonestreet.
Davidson continues its tennis season this weekend with a match against Richmond on February 11 at 1 p.m.

Athlete’s Diary

Each week The Davidsonian asks a Davidson athlete to provide a glimpse into their life and sport. Submissions are welcomed.

Today I was walking with a couple of recruits to Spanish class. We passed a girl outside of Chambers telling
a bunch of people, “Yeah, the swim team’s pretty much a cult here.”

The recruits asked me if the team really was a cult, and I said no. Getting a little defensive, I
replied that we’re just all good friends that have a lot of fun and spend at least five hours a
day together between practice and the feeding frenzy that follows (not that the having fun thing and the practice thing
coincide all that often, but anyway...).

But then I stopped to think about some of the things we do and how, to outsiders, they may seem
a little crazy. I wake up at 6 a.m. to dive into an unpleasantly cold pool. I haven’t shaved my
legs since September, and when I finally do get to shave for the conference tournament, every guy on the team
will have silky smooth legs, too. And then there are the team rituals we go through for every meet: Banging
on lockers and then marching out to the sound of bagpipes behind one of the captains carrying a stick that
says, “Davidson Swimming and Diving.” And my personal favorite — watching Cliffy

Name: Joanie Gidas
Year: Freshman
Sport: Swimming
Hometown: Pittsburgh, Pa.

yell the “Down by the River” cheer at the top of his lungs before he tears the other team’s beanie
baby mascot to shreds and throws it into the pool.

Cult? Maybe so, but all I can say is “Good stuff!”

The Bottom Line —

Davidsonian Player of the Week

Kelly Copeland

The junior forward scored 15 points with nine rebounds in a 73-60 loss to UNC Greensboro on Monday.

THE WEEK AHEAD

WRESTLING
Feb. 7 Appalachian State 7 p.m.

BASEBALL
Feb. 14 High Point 3:00

MEN’S BASKETBALL
Feb. 10 @ Appalachian State 1:00
Feb. 12 W. Carolina 7:30

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Feb. 10 @ Furman 3:00
Feb. 13 @ Appalachian St. 7:00
