THE Davidsonian
WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 24, 2001

Roller coaster season plagues women’s soccer

By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

The women’s soccer team has spent the past two weeks on the roller coaster that is the Southern Conference.

Starting with a non-conference game on October 9 against Wake Forest in Richardson Stadium, the Wildcats fell, 6-0.

Two quick goals around the 16-minute mark by WFU’s Joline Charlton and Emily Taggart rounded out the first half scoring.

Davidson never recovered from the deficit, and the Deacs added two more goals from Taggart and a point each from Sara Creighton and Katherine Winstead.

Wildcat goalie Sarah Hobart added 11 saves to her season total.

On Friday, October 12, the team headed west for a conference match against UT-Chattanooga.

The nearly-100 minute game was forced into sudden-victory overtime when the regular period ended in a 1-1 tie.

Chattanooga scored first with an early breakaway play; Davidson tied it up in the 60th minute when midfielder Tara Maloney ’03 scored on a Mary Weisskopf ’05 assist.

Senior Penn Graves wrapped up the game at 99:41 off a Tara Maloney corner kick, winning the game 2-1.

In her first appearance as goalie this season, Meghan Ferriter ’03 posted five saves.

From the heights of victory to the depths of despair, Davidson fell for the first time in history to Western Carolina University on Sunday, October 14.

Heather Maloney scored the Wildcats’ lone goal off an assist from twin sister Tara in the 3-1 defeat.

Ferriter had nine saves on the afternoon. Back at Smith Field, Davidson hosted two SoCon matches over the weekend:

On Friday, the Wildcats again went into extra play, this time against the College of Charleston.

Leigh Anne Hoskins ’04, the Wildcats’ leading scorer, headed in the first goal less than ten minutes into the game. Lauren Dennis ’03 and Denielle Erikson ’04 assisted.

Cougar Marcy Crenshaw tied the game seconds before halftime.

No one scored again during regulation time, and sudden-victory overtime began.

This time, Tara Maloney delivered the game-winner, a 93:17 15-yard shot on a Hoskins assist.

In a less-than-pleasing pattern, the Wildcats again followed an overtime victory with a loss.

Georgia Southern scored three second-half goals to beat Davidson 3-0, with Ferriter making nine saves.

The loss leaves Davidson at 7-10 overall and 6-3 in conference action.

Davidson head coach Kevin Hundley said, “I’m proud that this team has shown such great resilience in overcoming the many injuries and bad breaks that have seemed to dog us since the beginning of the year.”

The Wildcats will look to regroup in a non-conference match Saturday, October 27, when they travel to High Point, NC to take on the Panthers of High Point University. High Point is 2-8-1 on the year.

---

Hoops teams open the season with “Madness”

By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

Amidst face painters, information booths, and news cameras, Davidson got its first glimpse of the 2001-02 basketball teams last Saturday.

“Lights, Cameras, Action: Matinee Madness” lived up to its billing, offering participants a combination of all three.

Young children dreamed of greatness and old men relived their glory days, standing in gym-long lines to win t-shirts in the 3-point shootout and free shot contest. The biggest players assisted the littlest fans in the dunking line.

Prizes, including an autographed Southern Conference basketball and tickets to the Jan. 2 Davidson-Duke game, were raffled off.

Sarah Sullivan, a Davidson Elementary student, sporting a red and black paw print on her cheek and an autographed shirt from last year’s basketball preview, plans to attend this season’s games.

“I like to see them dribble around and play basketball,” she said. Six-year-old brother Patrick added that he came to Matinee Madness to “have fun and do lots of stuff.”

Annette Watts, the new women’s head coach said, “It’s great to see all these Wildcat fans. We have a great team that’s working hard, and hope to see everyone at our games.”

The 2001-02 teams showed off their skills in drill runs and were introduced before admiring fans.

Despite some technical difficulties and the ensuing hodgepodge of abbreviated warm-up songs, things got rolling with “YMCA” and “Let Me Blow Ya Mind.”

Damion White, a freshman walk-on guard for the men’s team, blew a few minds with his confident and consistent dunking. White won the exhibition competition, showboating with teammates Nick Booker, Chris Pearson, and Jouni Eho.

Senior Janna Magette, recently named the league’s best pure shooter by the Southern Conference women’s basketball coaches, had fun encouraging kids in the 3-point shootout and said, “Matinee Madness is a great time for everyone. It allows the players to communicate and interact with the community.”

Men’s head coach Bob McKillop pointed to the basketball teams as role models for the children present. “We think we have something special here—a group of young men and young women who give their all on the court without sacrificing the way they act off the court.”

---

Sophomore midfielder Denielle Erikson recorded an assist in last Friday’s game against College of Charleston.

---

Freshman goalkeeper Sarah Hobart has been the ’Cats’ last line of defense for much of the season. In last Tuesday’s game against Wake Forest University alone, Hobart posted 11 saves on the night.

---

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Dwell not upon thy weariness: thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire.”
— Arabian Proverb

---

THE WEEK AHEAD

FOOTBALL
Oct. 27 Hampden-Sydney 1:00

MEN’S SOCCER
Oct. 30 C. of Charleston 7:00

WOMEN’S SOCCER
Oct. 27 @ High Point 5:00
Oct. 31 UNC-Greensboro 7:00

SWIMMING
Oct. 27 Eastern Carolina 1:00

VOLLEYBALL
Oct. 26 @ The Citadel 7:00
Oct. 27 @ C. of Charleston 2:00
Oct. 30 @ Charlotte 7:00

Men’s & Women’s Cross Country
Oct. 27 SoCon Championship

FIELD HOCKEY
Oct. 25 @ Wake Forest 7:00
Oct. 26 @ Catawba 7:00