By Jenn Hiccins
Staff Writer

“So what’s it like to have ADD? Some people say the so-called syndrome doesn’t even exist, but believe me, it does. Many metaphors come to mind to describe it. It’s like driving in the rain with bad windshield wipers. Everything is smudged and blurred and you’re speeding along, and it’s really frustrating not being able to see very well. Or it’s like listening to a radio station with a lot of static and you have to strain to hear what’s going on. Or, it’s like trying to build a house of cards in a dust storm. You have to build a structure to protect yourself from the wind before you can even start on the cards.” — Edward Hallowell

This is just one of the ways in which nationally renowned psychiatrist Edward Hallowell, M.D. describes life with Attention Deficit Disorder in his books, lectures, and private practice. He serves to give the average person an educated perspective into the actions and struggles, motivations and mannerisms of children and adults living with ADD. Not only is Hallowell a man who copes with ADD on a daily basis, but he is also a practicing child/adult psychiatrist, a senior lecturer at Harvard Medical School and the author of seven books, including the national bestsellers Driven to Distraction and Answers to Distraction. His books are recognized as ‘the’ guidebooks for those who wish to understand and support children, spouses, and friends with ADD. And when he is not traveling the book circuit giving lectures and seminars, he is director/founder of the Hallowell Center for Cognitive and Emotional Health.

Hallowell dispels misunderstandings. And among all of the lecturers we bring to Davidson each year, we are fortunate to have the opportunity to hear Dr. Hallowell speak on a topic we know so little about. His presentation in Love Auditorium has been highly publicized throughout the region. Apparently, the Massachusetts native makes relatively few trips down South to North Carolina to speak. Organizations all over campus have collaborated to bring Hallowell to campus, but none more so than Students for New Learning. Their project, their mission—to bring a speaker to Davidson who will increase campus awareness about learning disabilities. For what it’s worth, one critic wrote this in praise of Hallowell’s ability to encapsulate an audience. “From business audiences to general audiences, people who listen to Dr. Hallowell come away stimulated, often amused, and always better informed, if not inspired,” says the critic. “He is a charismatic speaker, combining the knowledge of a Harvard instructor with the easy manner of an experienced public speaker who conveys his deep convictions with ease.” Who better to inform the community than the biggest expert there is on the subject?

Let me not downplay just how hard it is to get a man like Edward Hallowell to come to Davidson. It’s really, really, really hard. Students for New Learning, with the assistance of Academic Affairs, the Psychology Department, RLO, the Counseling Center, the Union Board and Davidson Elementary, have worked overtime to make this event a guaranteed success. They even made it possible for teachers who attend to get continuing education credits (a big deal if you know any teachers!) and for the admission to be free for the entire community. They were more than willing to make however many fliers, posters, newspaper articles, TV spots, and invitations were necessary to attract 1000 people to Love Auditorium on April 9th.

Edward Hallowell plans to not only offer us a basic introduction to the world of Attention Deficit Disorder, but will explore in more detail the aspects about the human experience of ADD which puzzle many of us. For us here at Davidson, an environment where one in twenty has some sort of learning disability, attendance at Hallowell’s lecture will ultimately expand our understanding of our classmates as well as offer professors techniques to improve the learning experiences for those affected. Hallowell chooses to focus his efforts primarily upon reminding us that “the human experience of ADD is more than just a collection of symptoms—it is a way of living.” He will attempt to refute the social misconceptions that many of us hold about students and adults with Attention Deficit Disorders and learning disabilities in general. He will teach us the biology that proves ADD is “a neuropsychiatric condition” which is “genetically transmitted and not caused by a weakness in character, nor by a failure to mature.” And above all he will encourage us “to instill hope once again” in those who struggle to deal with problems over which they have no control.No control. Promoting not sympathy, but rather acceptance and understanding. Once the person with ADD has learned how to cope with it, Hollowell says, “an untapped realm of the brain swims into view. Suddenly the radio station is tuned in, the windshield is clear, the sandstorm has died down. And the child or adult, who had been such a problem, such a nudge, such a general pain in the neck to himself and everybody else, that person starts doing things he’d never been able to do before. He surprises everyone around him, and he surprises himself.”

Davidson College President Bobby Vagt has made time in his schedule for this event in the life of our campus and community because its value is utterly apparent. It is a step in the right direction. Embracing a total awareness among a student body about issues like ADD and LD at an institution like Davidson is a challenge of epic proportions. Dr. Edward Hollowell speaks on “The Human Experience of Attention Deficit Disorder” April 9, 2001, 7:30 pm, Love Auditorium.

“Living Openly” vividly depicts the struggle and resilience of individuals dealing with AIDS for a sheltered campus

By Dan O’Neill
Special Contributor

In passing through the Union the past couple of days, you may have noticed the new, eye-catching photo exhibit that adorns the walls of the lobby, titled “Living Openly.” The photographer of the exhibit, Gisele Wulfsohn, reveals the individual accounts of thirty-one South Africans who tell of what it means to live openly with AIDS in today’s world. They are stories of struggle, adversity, and ultimately of resilience in dealing with this incredibly stigmatized and misunderstood pandemic.

One of these vivid photographs may have caught your attention, drawing you into the personal story of the individual behind the picture, an individual living today with AIDS. Suddenly, AIDS has a face, making it that much harder to turn away from the gravity of this worldwide problem. Seeing that AIDS is indiscriminate, affecting people of all different ages, races, and sexual orientations, really drives home the importance of being more aware of its presence in our lives, and not turning a blind eye until it affects us personally.

The Adopt a Country AIDS Campaign urges you to stop by the Union if you have not already, to read the autobiographies of these individuals and gain a new perspective on this disease, a disease that we have come to view more recently with an increasing sense of complacency. The photo exhibit has been made possible through the combined efforts of the Adopt a Country AIDS Campaign and the donations of various other persons and organizations on campus. By bringing the exhibit to campus, ACAC hopes to raise awareness as well as expose students to issues surrounding AIDS.

In particular, the world’s biggest drug firms have recently sought to strike down South African legislation that would allow other drug companies to import generic or “copycat” medicines, medicines that would make AIDS treatment more accessible to the poor. Many argue that such legislation puts money before people’s lives. Periodically, there will be a table regarding this debate in the Union over the next couple of weeks. Additionally, Adopt a Country AIDS Campaign will be looking to raise money through donations for our sponsored AIDS organization in Africa, the Women AIDS Support Network of Zimbabwe. The exhibit's formal opening will be in the Union this Thursday at 8 pm and will continue on display until Easter Break.

Living in Davidson, one may easily feel removed from this disease, because AIDS’ presence is not as readily apparent here as it is in central and southern Africa. In this region, for example, one in three adults is currently HIV positive, making nations destined to leave behind whole generations of orphans and causing the population’s growth rate to exceed the death rate sometime within the next decade. Therefore, keep in mind that the exhibit does not portray much of the depravity faced in these regions; rather, it displays many of the “success stories” of AIDS, which are easier for us to look at and relate to. The exhibit should make us all more aware of this growing pandemic and not foster a sense of satisfaction at where we stand in combating this problem.

The photos of these HIV-positive individuals call us to action at a much more accessible level, at a level to which we can relate, inspiring us to maintain their legacy of action, education, tolerance, and advocacy in our own communities. Nonetheless, we must remain aware that AIDS is a global problem that is currently devastating some parts of the world.