Renowned
jazz pianist
Harry Pickens
comes back to
Davidson

By Matt Whited
Photo Editor

It is rare that Davidson gets to welcome
back incredible musical talent that was once
its own. Before beginning his concert on
Friday evening, Harry Pickens admitted that
he had not been back to Davidson’s campus
in over 20 years, but this visit was certainly
not a disappointment to any jazz enthusiast
who was able to come to the 900 Room for
Pickens’ performance.

Before Pickens took the stage, Music Pro-
fessor William Lawing introduced him as a
superb pianist who had used Davidson as an
arena for developing his incredible talent.
Pickens came to Davidson as a euphonium
player with a keen interest in jazz but little
jazz experience. However, after being di-
rected to the right resources with the help of
some professors, Pickens was able to teach
himself jazz piano so well that after two years
at Davidson, he left to study jazz piano in a
more specialized environment at Rutgers.
For the past 20 years, Harry has toured and
recorded with various groups and has earned
nationwide recognition for his playing.

Pickens’ performance consisted of his own
exquisite renditions of jazz standards inter-
spersed with anecdotes from his time at
Davidson. Pickens opened with “Blackberry
Winter,” which he played for Loonis
McGlohon, the song’s composer who was in
attendance. He recalled how, early in his jazz
career, he had played as the opening for a
concert when McGlohon’s trio performed at
Davidson. Pickens described how, several
days after the performance, he received a
letter from McGlohon complimenting his
playing and encouraging him to pursue a
career in jazz. Pickens remembered this as a
defining point in his musical career.

After paying tribute to Loonis McGlohon,
Pickens played jazz standards for over an
hour, occasionally taking requests from the
audience. He entertained the small crowd
with songs by such famous composers as
Duke Ellington, George Gershwin, Dave
Brubeck, Herbie Hancock, and Thelonious
Monk, all played in his uniquely sparse, emo-
tional style. Pickens stopped after nearly
every song to share thoughts with the audi-
ence, whether about his memories of playing
in the 900 Room 20 years ago on the same
piano, or about performing and stage fright,
which were the subjects of a master class he
had given earlier in the day.

After playing this set of jazz standards,
Pickens turned to the audience and asked if
anyone had any requests. Almost immedi-
ately, someone asked for “Linus and Lucy,”
which Pickens agreed to play. His one con-
dition was that all of the audience members
had to wave their fingers along with the song,
and no one objected. Pickens finished the set
with “Fire and Rain,” a James Taylor song
that he said was fitting because it reminded
him of his time at Davidson.

Pickens finished his performance to a stand-
ing ovation from the entire 900 Room, a well-
deserved recognition of his grand perfor-
mance. He left everyone there with very little
to be desired, except maybe another hour or
two of his exceptional playing.

Anna Jensen ‘03 (left) plays Celimene while Chris Murray ‘01 stars as Alceste.

WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 14, 2001.

Bill Giduz

The Misanthrope to open next week
Murray, Jensen star in Moliere’s “deepest work”

By Matt Garfield
Sports Editor

The Davidson College theatre department
presents its spring main stage production,
Moliére’s The Misanthrope, from February 22-
25.

Visiting Associate Professor Jack Beasley
directs the cast in this comedy of manners,
which begins at 8 p.m. each night in Hodson
Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tick-
ets are $10 for general admission, $7 for senior
citizens, and $5 for students.

Originally written and produced in France in
1666, the play achieved great success and, like
Moliére’s other works, sparked enormous con-
troversy for its irreverent attitude toward seven-
teenth century Parisian society.

Widely regarded as the French playwright’s
masterpiece by many scholars and theatre-goers,
The Misanthrope revolves around Alceste
(played by Chris Murray), a man turned off by
the falsity and frivolity of his contemporaries.

“This is by far (Moliére’s) deepest and most
serious work,” Beasley said. “It’s far more
serious and less comical than most of his plays.
He definitely took a cynical, bitter turn when he
wrote this.”

Witty speeches and comic characters provide
sharp contrast to the more serious underlying
issue: How can a man who believes that honesty
and integrity are the most important bases of
human relationships survive in a world of in-
trigue, gossip, back-biting, and rampant insin-
cerity? And, ironically, what happens when this
honest man falls in love with society’s most
celebrated coquette, Celimene (played by Anna
Jensen)?

Murray said his role as Demitrius in “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream” last year gave him
some previous experience as a lovesick pro-
tagonist. “I’m not new to being in love with a
woman on the stage,” he said.

This is the second time Beasley has directed
The Misanthrope. He is a former faculty mem-
ber in the theater program at UNC-Charlotte
who joined the Davidson faculty this year. He
received his B.A. degree in theater with a minor
in French from Vanderbilt University, and
earned an M.F.A. at the University of Georgia.

The Soda Shop
SINCE 1951

Breakfast Burritos
Omelets

104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC

Eat-in Take-out