By Matt Garren, Sports Editor

mud (md) n. Wet, sticky, soft earth, as on the banks of a river.

The Knobloch Campus Center is hailed by many school leaders as one of the finest student unions of any small college in the nation. But in addition to its $30 million price tag, construction on the center is responsible for an unwanted guest delivered free by Mother Nature: Mud.

The upheaval created by the constant movement of construction vehicles and equipment has spawned huge rivers of brown sludge—often several inches deep—along nearby roads and near the tennis courts. The problem has worsened recently because of large amounts of rainfall. According to AccuWeather, Davidson received 5.68 inches of precipitation in March, more than an inch above normal.

If you’re one of the many students whose travel has been disrupted by the sticky brown monster, take heart: Officials say the mud will disappear as construction winds down in the coming weeks. The union part of the center is expected to open on May 12, while the amphitheatre will not be completed until around October.

“When you come back in the fall, it will be a different story,” said David Holthouser, Director of the Physical Plant. “It will be better landscaping-wise when we're done. It’s kind of painful during the process.”

Sometime within the next two weeks, construction equipment currently stored behind Duke Hall will be installed in the center, allowing workers to move in and clean out some of the worst trouble spots. “As that stuff starts disappearing, we'll clean it up,” said Holthouser. Workers have already installed silt fences and a sediment pond near the tennis courts to keep silt out of pedestrian areas, he said. In addition, a cleaning truck washes off the streets surrounding the center twice each month.

“It’s been an effort to keep up with it and clean up as we go,” Holthouser said. But more than anything else, completion of the center itself will provide permanent relief. Once that occurs, said Holthouser, workers will use bulldozers to remove the thickest areas of mud. And most importantly, landscapers will begin planting grass, trees, and bushes, which will do more to eliminate it than any truck or fence.

“We definitely have some clean-up to do,” Holthouser said. The school also expects to finish building the brick sidewalk that currently ends just beyond Belk Hall during the summer. It will provide mud-free transportation from the residence halls to the campus center.

“It will be a major pedestrian thoroughfare,” said Holthouser. “We’re counting on that to be a showplace part of the campus.”

Parking, from page 1

without protest and campus safety director Sam McKelvey has received no complaints about the ordinance. “I think students have looked at it and realized that it wasn’t a prohibition on students,” McKelvey said. “There was just a major section of downtown that was stagnant.

“In the last few days, I’ve noticed a marked difference in the number of spaces available.” Both the SGA resolution and the new town ordinance address what somesay has become a perennial problem—the availability of student parking. According to Epps, a survey sent randomly to half of the student body questioned students about campus parking and 57 percent of the 460 respondents said that a parking problem did exist. Harris agreed: “I’ve received too many emails for [the SGA] not to talk about this. There are a lot of people on campus who see this as a concern.” Others assert that complaints about the availability of parking are unfounded. “We have more than enough parking on campus,” President Bobby Vagt said. “There are more than two spaces for every car registered here on campus.” According to McKelvey, there are approximately 2000 parking spaces on campus and only 750 registered student vehicles. Another 400 staff and faculty vehicles arrive daily, but that still leaves more parking spaces than necessary. Citing this abundance, the town council moved forward and eventually passed the Main St. restriction. “We happened to know that there was a surplus of several hundred parking spaces on campus,” said Brice. “And with that kind of surplus on campus, we didn’t feel like we could use precious spaces near downtown merchants for car storage. So the way to eliminate that was to not allow parking overnight.” Professor Dave Martin, a member of the town council, echoed Brice’s sentiments: “Students shouldn’t have the right to park [on Main Street] when they have plenty of parking available to them [in Baker].” Baker parking lot has a capacity of almost 600 cars and, under Epps’ proposal, freshman parking would take up approximately 180 spaces, or the average number of first-year students who bring cars to campus. In addition to the discussion of parking regulations, a new policy is in the works. Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey said Tuesday night that Davidson will begin towing the cars of students who receive more than five violations for parking in spaces reserved for faculty and staff. This comes in response to students who repeatedly park in faculty and staff spaces and disregard warnings. “We’ve talked to students,” said McKelvey. “Faculty have talked to them but in many instances, students have just ignored them. They’ve just walked away.” After a grace period of one week, the new regulation will go into effect next Thursday. After that, every violation for parking in faculty and staff spaces—regardless of whether or not the student pays the fine—will count toward the five-violation maximum. “It’s with reluctance that we do this, but it’s to address a real problem,” said McKelvey.

Quality FODait (re cmcesrone by people who care!
- Full Service Auto Repair:
  Oil Changes
  Tune-ups
  NC Inspections
  Air Conditioning
  Computer Alignment & Wheel Balancing
  LAKE NORMAN Brakes
  Serving Lake Norman since 1992
  704-892-6590
  18705 Statesville Rd., Cornelius
  www.lakenormanauto.com
  M-F 7:30-5:30, Sat. 8-12
  9 Years serving The Lake Norman Area
  5% Discount on Parts & Labor to Davidson Students, Faculty, and Staff.
  Must show ID. Does not include NC state inspection.
  Free Rotation with purchase of a set of tires!