By JORDAN STEELE Staff Writer

After having released a slew of stunning albums throughout the 90s, the influential rock outfit Pavement fizzled. The band could not have finished more appropriately. 1999’s Terror Twilight, arguably Pavement’s best record, abandons the sloppy, brash harmony of shattering guitars and spastic rhythm, which rendered the band at once endearing and annoying, in favor of sleek, sinewy guitar work and atypically intelligible lyrics. The album was the culmination of a steadily maturing vision of its frontman, guitarist Stephen Malkmus, who performed last weekend with his new band, the Jicks, in Columbia, SC.

Malkmus continues the grown-up hard rock sound on his self-titled 2000 release: think Billy Corgan with a deadpan wit. On Friday night, the bandleader successfully conjoined the old with the new, in a refreshingly affable set at Uncle Doctor’s. The beer-swilling, shaggy Malkmus conjured up images of Pavement’s “slacker rock” days, prompting one concert attendee to remark, beaming, “These days, most of them just drink bottled water.”

However, little intervened between Malkmus and the music. The first song, “Black Book,” found the bandleader chugging out chords on his guitar, pointed at the crowd like a machine gun. During the evening, Malkmus oscillated between the whimsical, evident during the calypso-funk pastiche “Vague Space,” and the downright weird, in the lo-fi hilarity of “Jo Jo’s Jacket.” “Phantasies” showcased Malkmus’s weakness for psychedelic Brit-pop and emphasized his surprisingly in-tune falsetto.

Keeping the beat on bass was the alluringly aloof Joanna Bolme. Her rhythmic counterpart, drummer John Moen, lacked the paroxysmal drum work that typified live Pavement, but his straightforward approach to the kit was no less effective. If there was any wonder about leadership in Pavement, Friday night’s performance assured the audience that this is Stephen Malkmus’s band. His decision to encore with the Cars’ eerie pop classic “Let the Good Times Roll” is more than indie irony. Malkmus seems willing, after a decade of revitalizing underground rock and paving the way for its new wave, to pay homage to the legends that enabled his own ascent: not a poor task for indie rock’s Prodigal Son.

---

Picasso and Rembrandt and Krasner, oh my: the VAC’s permanent collection

BY GRACE PATE Special Contributor

On a Tuesday afternoon, in the respectful silence of the Van Every Gallery that is usually disturbed only by the occasional muffled sound of feet on hardwood floor, I sat/dozed at the information desk where I work. Suddenly I was torn from my sleepy reading by an excited “Holy *#@$! This is a Rauschenberg,” directed questioningly at me by a stranger in sunglasses. I smiled politely as if I knew what he was talking about. Cursing and jumping spastically from piece to piece, this gangly teenager shouted out the famous names and spewed art-historical details—saying things like, “Aww man, there’s a phenomenal gallery of De Kooning artwork in the City.” I thought to myself, “Ahh, a New Yorker. Well la-ti-da.” To my South Carolinian ears, this location bespoke an intrinsic artistic superiority, and yet my only response was to smile calmly and give a cool nod at his excitement.

As soon as the New Yorker left, my snobbery disintegrated and was replaced with utter curiosity. The truth is, the exhibit from Davidson’s permanent collection had just gone up that day, and I had not yet looked around. Rising from the desk, I walked around the first room of the exhibit: a Picasso etching, a John Singer Sargent watercolor, and a few I didn’t recognize—all very impressive. The next room held some excellent Doisneau photographs, a Rembrandt etching, a Dürer woodcut, a Lee Krasner lithograph, and my favorites, a black and white photograph by Alen MacWeeney with a heartwarming, narrative quality, and a Hopper etching entitled “Night Shadows.” I found the final room just as exciting as the first two and as I returned to my seat I couldn’t contain my amazement at the quality and variety of the artwork I had just viewed. But most of all, I could not believe that this beautiful display was a permanent possession of Davidson College. Where had it been? Did we really keep this kind of treasure buried in the basement of the VAC?

Brad Thomas, curator of the Van Every and Smith galleries, informed me that the exhibit contains a selection of “highlights” from the over 2,600 pieces in the permanent collection. The artists range from relatively unfamiliar to some of the top names in American and international art of the past and present. The art itself spans 500 years from classical to modern, realistic to obscure, and covers every medium from pencil to sculpture. A particular focus on the collection of works on paper began in the early ‘70s with Herb Jackson’s initiation of the annual Davidson Print and Drawing Competition. Additionally, artists, alumni, and friends of Davidson have generously filled out the collection to its current magnitude. I, for one, am very grateful.

Since the last exhibit of permanent collection highlights was in 1995, I strongly encourage Davidson students to take advantage of this altogether unbelievable array of art before it comes down December 5th. Meanwhile, the basement collection itself is always available as an excellent source for studio and art history majors, and anyone else with a particular interest. It is a resource that should not be left untapped. I guarantee that amongst the broad-ranging pieces each viewer will find several favorites.

---

New addition for must-read list

By LINDY BALDWIN News Editor

One of the great casualties of the Davidson experience is, I believe, the concept of reading for pleasure. By the time the average student is finished with Paradise Lost, the political science journal, and the physics problem set, theThe thought of reading more words—by choice, nonetheless—is tantamount to suggesting torture. Few books would compel a Davidson student to take on that task. Margaret Atwood’s novel, *The Blind Assassin*, however, is such a book. This lyrical, haunting novel is so extraordinary that I feel compelled to risk being told “I already have enough reading!” approximately eight million times in my effort to get my friends, acquaintances, and now total strangers to read it. Unknown to me until I picked up her latest novel in Main Street Books, Canadian author Atwood is one of the most prolific and respected modern authors. While her fame hasn’t quite reached Stephen King levels, she certainly deserves to be on the must-read list of every literary fan. In addition to several novels, she has written reams of poetry, and her shelf is probably sagging under the weight of her numerous awards. *The Blind Assassin*, published in 2000, is no exception to Atwood’s history of critical acclaim—it was awarded the 2000 Booker Prize (a British award given to the year’s best novel) and has been called “the first great novel of the new millennium.”

Of course, greatness does not always equal an easy or enjoyable read (Exhibit A: *Crime and Punishment*, or anything that came out of 19th-century Russia for that matter). Atwood’s work is certainly not lightweight; at 521 pages, *The Blind Assassin* is not a good replacement if your idea of pleasure-reading is the monthly issue of *Maxim* or the latest cookie-cutter product of the romance novel industry. However, Atwood’s vivid, beautiful prose deftly draws the reader into her story; despite the complex structure and occasionally depressing themes, reaching page 521 is far from a chore. The novel itself almost defies description; any attempt to explain it either gives too much away or makes the story seem gimmicky. It begins as the memoirs of Mrs. Iris Chase Griffen and wastes no time setting forth the central puzzle of the novel with the words, “Ten days after the war ended, my sister Laura drove a car off a bridge.”

---

### Cannon’s at the Neighborhood Theater for Green

By Cannon Hopces
Special Contributor

“I was sitting on the back of the bus traveling from one show to another and I started thinking about Willie and Jerry Jeff Walker and Robert Earl Keen,” he recalls. “I wanted to show them how much I appreciated them. I had a pretty cool chord arrangement going and started thinking about Willie Nelson’s shoes. I mean, just think about all the places and things his shoes have seen from the top of the White House to walking around some square in Amsterdam to China and wherever else he’s been. Willie’s had an amazing life and career. The lyric says ‘I’ve got these crusty shoes down on my feet and I could write a book about the places that they’ve seen.’ It’s the story of how I picture their lives.”

With Pat Green, Texan Songwriter, “the cowboy rides away with the girl and the bad guys are all dead.” And that is the typical spirit of most of us Texans. We like to hear ballads about cowboys, rodeos, Sunday mornings sitting on the front porch, the escape of outlaws, our dazzling history, and our crazy Texas women. Pat’s music is different from that which is familiar on the Davidson College campus. His sound has remained pure and unspoiled by Nashville. Ingenious talents like Willie and Robert Earl Keen have influenced Green rather than high-society producers and money. He doesn’t need help from an assembly line of songwriters. Instead, Pat writes his own songs and when he doesn’t—he gives proper credit through his and Cory Morrow’s *Songs We Wish We’d Written* CD. There isn’t that Nashville twang that most associate with popular country. This is not another Garth Brooks. Pat doesn’t put forth a false affection in his music. He’s relentless, passionate, and true.

I am sure that many of you Nashville country fans are thinking that I am disgracefully offending you and your “country.” Truthfully, I believe that Nashville had reached its pinnacle during the days of Hank Williams, Willie Nelson, Waylon Jennings, and Merle Haggard. Those boys knew what to write about and how to sing it right and pure. Today their soul echoes in the voices of Texas songwriters. Now I am putting forth an invitation to those who are interested in hearing Texas Music at its best. Don’t go expecting to see a bunch of hillbilly boys in fresh, straw cowboy hats, starched shirts, and Wrangler jeans. If you do, you will be shocked to find some good ole’ Austin musicians whose influences range from Willie Nelson, Otis Redding, and Stevie Ray Vaughn to Bach, Led Zeppelin, and Mark O’Connor. These boys are the preeminent talents in the music world—country or rock. They love their job and don’t pine for the fame that has exhausted Nashville. And if you do come, watch the faces of every Texan there; in them, you will see a bit more pride and familiarity than usual. In a sense, they have returned home, but even more than that, they’ve been given a confirmation that there is a place so absolute and magnificent that only poetry’s best words can distinguish it from others. So please, join a few crazy Texans and me at the Neighborhood Theatre on Wednesday night. No cowboy boots and hats are necessary—just bring your wallet so you can buy a few Shiner Bocks. This is not a paid advertisement; instead, I’m just a big fan trying to introduce y’all to one of my bands singing songs about Texas.

More information: www.patgreen.com