Students weigh in on what America should do next

New Yorker’s view: New symbol of America

David Crow
Staff Writer

In her novel *Fountainhead*, Ayn Rand wrote, “I would give the greatest sunset in the world for one sight of
New York’s skyline. The sky over New York and the will of man made visible. What other religion do we
need?” That skyline, and the imagination that created it, has been altered forever by the tragic events last week. The
attack was not just on American citizens or the American way of life. It was an attack on our will
and determination as a people.

When the World Trade Center was built in the early 1970s, New York was facing a financial crisis and it
seemed hubris to build what were then the world’s tallest buildings. It was precisely that sense of determination in the
face of adversity that gave the city hope. Restaurant critic Gael Greene remarked, “If money and power and ego and
a passion for perfection could create this extraordinary pleasure, this instant landmark... money and power and ego could rescue the
city from its ashes.”

Many people believe it is this set of values that makes New York a dirty, rude, immoral place. In fact,
these values represent much of what America stands for. We are a greedy, power-hungry society. Yet, those ideals, which have
such negative connotations, have made America the most powerful nation in the world, and New York is the city that
embraces and flaunts those ideals better than any other. The World Trade Center was the ultimate expression of American power,
ingenuity, and imagination. With this great symbol now gone, what are we left with as an icon of what America
stands for?

Ayn Rand saw the skyline of New York as a symbol of “the will of man,” represented by the power
it took to build such great structures. Now, as the skyline of New York is viewed minus its two great
colossuses, we will again think of the will of man. This time, however, we will think of that will not
in terms of what it took to build the towers. Rather, we will think of all of the men and
women who risked their lives so that they could help people get out before the buildings collapsed. We will remember
the images of men and women lifting up debris with their bare hands, and the thousands of people all across
the country lining up to give blood.

Just as the World Trade Center represented the determination of the American people when it was first built, so too
does the work of all those who have helped in the aftermath. They are the new symbol of America, and
it is their love and devotion that will rescue the city, and the country, from its ashes.

David Crow is a New York City native.

Don’t waste more lives

By Alex Massengale and Adam Brown
Special Contributors

The government and people of the United States are faced with some very difficult questions. Exactly what should a “war
against terrorism” entail? What is the proper way for a country to respond to a large-scale terrorist act? Before we
figure out a response, we must determine what our ultimate goal is. Our goal should be the prevention of terrorism,
on any scale, around the world. While it is not likely that terrorism can be completely extinguished, we can make
strides towards this end. Indeed, the nature of our immediate response to the situation may dictate our success.

Many believe that America’s response should include massive military retaliation against both the terrorist organizations that perpetrated these crimes and
the nations that harbor or support known terrorists. While such a solution may seem meritorious on the surface, this kind
of revenge-oriented response could make the current situation even worse. With most of the retaliation talk centering on strikes against
Afghanistan’s Taliban regime, one can only wonder: Is drawing the U.S. into what the Taliban has deemed a “holy war”
what the terrorists wanted in the first place? In all likelihood, such a course of action would lead to the
deaths of thousands more civilians and soldiers and serve to further magnify the scope of this enormous tragedy.

There is little doubt that America could topple the Taliban and Osama bin Laden if its energies are devoted to
that goal. The question remains, however: Would such a course of action help the U.S. attain its long-term goal? Thousands
more will have died and the world may not be any safer. In all likelihood, it could be a more
dangerous place. The U.S. runs the serious risk of turning bin Laden into a martyr for those who already hold
anti-American sentiments; such a martyrdom might actually grant his aims and beliefs a degree of legitimacy among those opposed to
the United States' powerful role in the international sphere. Surely this would not be what the United States wants.

It seems that retaliatory military actions could create a cycle of violence that would further jeopardize the safety of America
and its allies. The best course of action would be one founded on prudence and patience. We can’t expect to
eradicate terrorism in one fell swoop. It’s a battle that can only be won through diplomacy, dialogue, and cooperation. A
coordinated intelligence effort with as many western and non-western countries as possible will provide us with our best hope of
accomplishing our goals. This effort, although more prolonged than swift military action, would allow us to target the roots of
existing terrorism without planting the seeds for more terror.

Leaders must listen

Catherine Foster
Staff Writer

For the last week, the nation has displayed a unity of mindset like no one in my generation has ever
experienced. I have watched hours of television and cannot recall seeing a single commercial. I have been to classes, clubs,
and dances and have been saturated with one thought, one topic. And here I am now, trying to produce something
intelligent for the community to read about our solitary thought, our war.

In the midst of the turmoil, I began to form my own opinions. With each e-mail I received from family
members scattered from New York City to Washington, DC to Seville, Spain, my perspective broadened and my ideas changed. First
came a message from my brother, John, a Davidson junior spending the semester in Seville. Experiencing national tragedy outside of
the nation must be an incredibly difficult task. After winding through all of the complexities of international responses, John finally
said, “Tragedy, like love,incites different responses according to the density and depth of each person.” I instantly agreed with him,
but understanding that everyone is affected differently proved no help in forming my own opinion. Next came a challenging e-mail
from my aunt, a Presbyterian preacher who has traveled extensively in the Holy Land. She spoke of poor countries and
their perceptions of the United States as a country that will exploit anyone for money or resources. She reminded me
of bonds that transcend nationality and race, and then she attached two e-mails that completely changed my opinions on pursuing
war. They were from her Palestinian friends in the West Bank. The Rev. Dr. Mitri Raheb, a Lutheran minister in
Bethlehem, said the following: “Unfortunately, the media has also shown scenes of a few Palestinians celebrating the tragedy. We want
you to know that these few do not speak for or represent the entire Palestinian people.” And, “As Palestinians, we
can very well understand the pain of our American friends. We know what it means when political leaders are targeted
and are not safe in their own offices.” I was already uneasy about going to war, but the two e-mails
only further confirmed that most of the casualties of any American attack would be our allies. Lastly, my brother David
e-mailed me from Chicago, where he was stranded from his home in Washington. He has been waiting to hear about
missing friends for almost a week now. He spoke of how we as a people have been wronged. We have
been assaulted by a people who harbor nothing but hatred for us, who would indeed kill themselves just to see
our country in pain. Even if they have legitimate claims against our government, they contrived to murder innocent citizens of
our nation and not to change the stance of a superior government. America cannot tolerate being brutally attacked; there must
be military ramifications. As the days progress the media and those around us will have much more to say about
war, justice, and revenge. I only hope that before America makes critical decisions, its leaders read all of their e-mails
and listen to the varying voices from around the world.

Celebrate brotherhood
SHEPHERD B. REYNOLDS
Guest Contributor

In America, we forget. As citizens of the most powerful country in the world, the worst things we see are
most often in the comfort of our armchair, gazing at the television. Yes, we have our own injustices, but we
are a country constantly battling these evils. It is not every day that we witness problems of mass hunger, territorial
disputes, and war. Gratefully, our founding fathers eloquently established the many freedoms we enjoy today. We do not find ourselves
choosing death in a constant struggle for the life of our family, loved ones, or people. I challenge this community
and the rest of our nation to take a step back and look at history and the events looming in
our future. There is a possibility that the parties responsible for the recent, heinous attacks on humanity will not be
apprehended. Yes, there is a possibility that countries oblivious to their mistake will harbor these parties. In this case, we
will in fact be faced with a dilemma. Do we retaliate with the same violence in order to set a
precedent? Or do we sit back and show the world these manifestations of evil have won? I dare say they
have strengthened us as a nation. At a bittersweet moment in our history, the leaders of this country decided that
the defense of South Vietnam from communists was the right thing to do. Carrying out its duty as “the brightest
beacon of democracy,” we did not succeed as hoped, and we pulled out battered, bloody, and frustrated to return home.
American soldiers returned with nothing but images of horror and memories of fallen comrades. It is not the defeat that
I want to highlight; I wish to highlight the aftermath and the national opinion of its government and military. Therefore,
it is not a question of what has been done in the past; it is a question of what we
shall do in the future. We have choices to make, and in the future, our choices will determine our destiny.
If in the coming months or weeks, America and the western world find itself in conflict, we must support our
country’s leaders and our military. If by some divine order there is a silver lining in all of this, it
is a wake-up call for all of America. We must celebrate brotherhood, fellowship, and love. These are the values that
our country cherishes; yet we get caught up in ourselves. So, let us put patriotism and fellowship at the forefront.
If you choose to complain, remember that you are allowed to complain in the full glory of our nation’s freedom.

No choice but war
BILLY FERGUSON
Special Contributor

The debate over whether to go to war has been a question of morals and values for many years and
for many societies. Recently, Americans have had to enter into this same debate with each other, trying to decide whether
a war on terrorism is probable, possible, or necessary. These United States of America were attacked on Tuesday, September 11,
2001. This attack on our country must be dealt with effectively. The appropriate response to such an atrocity is swift
retaliation and ongoing persecution of any terrorists and countries that harbor or sponsor them. The retaliation will entail bloodshed and
destruction and may go so far as to be characterized as war. However, this is necessary for the cycle of
violence to stop. America must send a harsh message to all those who believe that terrorism is an effective means
to vocalize a cause. Opponents of this belief claim that the violence will only be furthered if we respond to
these attacks with military action. Some claim that a response will only anger more, and thus be counterintuitive. But a
peaceful resolution is impossible. Economic sanctions and diplomatic discussions will not repay the thousands of families that have been torn
apart as a result of this violence. Though hasty attacks on countries only presumed to be involved seems to be
a bad idea, known offenders must pay for the emotional and physical damage inflicted upon Americans. Military action will appropriately
help to stop terrorism throughout the world and help to comfort those that have directly and indirectly been tortured by
these offenses. It is better to attain peace than simply hope that peace will be born. In the end, there
should be no debate.
