College names visiting professor to build new “Program for the Theological Exploration of Vocation”

Lilly, from page 1, encourages Christians to pursue the ministry as a vocation. As Davidson Chaplain Rob Spach commented, “[In our society] ordained ministry is not on the radar screen of professions that most people consider.” Hence, the program seeks to “make them aware of this possibility.”

Moving outward, the program is also intended to identify those with equally strong Christian commitments whose talents and interests point them in a direction other than the ministry. Beach-Verhey expects that “there will be some [individuals] who have religious language and can apply it to other areas but don’t know how.” This area of the program intends to demonstrate to these individuals how they can relate their beliefs to their intended career.

Finally, the program will address the needs of those students who have a sense of belief and meaning that is not necessarily Christian or even religious at all. Kuykendall explained that this third and broadest facet of the program is based on the belief that “everyone has a sense that what he or she thinks is good... has something to do with how one lives his or her life.”

One of the specific opportunities Beach-Verhey will administer is the Lilly Scholars program. This is one of the primary ways the office will encourage students to explore the ordained ministry as a career path. After applying in the spring of their junior year, Lilly scholars will receive a stipend towards a summer internship in some type of church work. Each recipient then enjoys a two-year scholarship towards his or her final year at Davidson and first year at a theological school. This program will not only assist students who know they are interested in pursuing the ministry but will also give those students who are not certain where their interests will take them a look at theological education.

“Often students don’t have a clear picture of theological education,” remarked Spach. “[A year in seminary] will be a great opportunity for students to explore the possibility, even if they aren’t sure they want to go into the ministry.” “We want to get students to try ministry and get that first peg in the ground,” agreed Kuykendall.

Another interesting opportunity provided by the program is the Sophomore Experience. Beach-Verhey elaborated on this new concept. “The new sophomore retreats are something people will be hearing about very soon,” he noted. Beginning next academic year, the office will sponsor two retreats for second-year students, one at the beginning of the fall semester and one at the beginning of the spring semester.

The first will include speakers from career counseling as well as alumni and local professionals. These guests will help students think about what talents, interests, and values are important to them. They will also give talks from their personal experiences about the possible meanings of vocation. Spach stressed the ecumenical nature of these retreats. “This is a way of expressing a Christian commitment that embraces students from all these different traditions or students with no particular tradition at all.”

The second retreat, at the beginning of the spring semester, will focus more on developing the student-advisor relationship. Students will also engage in more concrete reflection about possible major choices. Beach-Verhey sees these retreats both as an opportunity to enlarge students’ ability to reflect on and to discuss work as vocation and as a helpful venue to exercise those abilities. “When I think about my job [as program director], it’s like what I do as a teacher,” he asserted. “I give them the resources to think in new ways.”ways, and then I give them the opportunity to explore and to do that kind of thinking.” Besides the Lilly Scholars program and the Sophomore Experience, other programs funded by the Lilly grant include Davidson’s theological education day, summer internships in ministry and service, funding for more alternative breaks, a lecture series, and service projects involving local congregations. Through these and other activities, the program will involve not only students but also faculty, alumni, and the local community in exploration of issues of vocation. Kuykendall and Spach both feel that Beach-Verhey is the right person to help the program get underway. “He [Beach-Verhey] has the best of both worlds,” said Kuykendall. “He’s not a graduate [of Davidson], but he’s been a big part of this community and he knows many students personally.” Spach concurred. “I think he is an excellent example of someone who integrates rigorous scholarship with a deep life of faith and will encourage students to bring those things together.” From his own perspective, Beach-Verhey spoke of his “passion” for practical ethics as a definite asset: “I have a real passion and concern for how people live out their daily lives and what the meaning behind it is.” The entire endeavor is on a tight schedule, though. The first of the sophomore retreats begins in six months, and the first Lilly Scholars will submit applications next year. “It’s a pretty time-specific schedule he’s working with,” noted Kuykendall. To that end, the new office is offering three summer internships to students to help build the office from scratch. “The interns will do everything from academic research to writing brochures to setting up the webpage for the program,” explained Beach-Verhey. He feels that this presents a great opportunity to students to be involved in an exciting new project. Once the office is up and running, two full-time staff members will step in. The college is currently looking to hire a program coordinator and a staff assistant. According to Beach-Verhey, all three full-time staff members will probably work very closely together. Though the program’s roots are in Christianity, Beach-Verhey expressed the desire that it remain “inclusive.” “It is my hope that people with different views will come together to think about the meaning of life and of life’s work.”

Category Hill Election Candidates
Rising Sophomores
Rimi Chau SGA Senator
Victor Lindsay SGA Senator
Bobby Pittenger
Jeff Wheeler
Rachel May
Allison Perry
Owen Barrow
Kathryn Butterworth
Kay McCloy
Hannah Fubr
Kristin Gyllenborg
Charles Washington
Kristin Nick
Eron Earley-Thiele
Katie Meyer
SGA Senator
Colin Eagan
George Edwards
Kevin Epps
Jeff Larrimore
Anna Mallet

Located in quaint downtown Moore, enjoy your dining experience in comfortable elegance in a historical house. Dinner specials starting at $9.

Do you want to leave your mark on Davidson? Would you like to be a Senior Admission Fellow?

To the Class of 2003:
The Office of Admission and Financial Aid is now accepting applications for next year’s Senior Admission Fellows. Fellows are trained as para-professional Admission Counselors and are charged with interviewing prospective students and aiding in the recruitment of the incoming first-year class. By helping to recruit Davidson’s next “greatest ever” class of students, Fellows leave a lasting impression on the Davidson campus. Applications can be found at the front desk in Grey House (Admission). The deadline for completed applications is Wednesday, April 4. Students with questions may contact John Bell at ext. 2186.