Campaign finance laws are needed to revitalize democracy
— By ALEX MASSENGALE Columnist

© Campaign finance reform is one of the most pressing issues before the Senate. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Russell Feingold
(D-WI), and Thad Cochran (R-MS) are submitting their reform bill to Congress. Last week, the credit card industry successfully lobbied
for legislation that would curtail the abilities of individuals to file for bankruptcy. This bill flew through both Houses of
Congress without any semblance of public support. The support mainly came from MBNA, a large contributor to the Republican party,
who pushed hard for this bill and was rewarded. The U.S. Public Interest Research Group found that fundraising for congressional
elections has risen 42.5% since 1978. Both major parties are lining up to prevent any sort of meaningful change that
would reduce their undue influence.

The reasons for regulation of campaign finance are obvious. American democracy has been lifted out of the hands of the
American voter and placed into the hands of large industrial groups and wealthy benefactors. There are numerous recent examples of
how unregulated campaign funding has compromised the democratic process. Policymaking is increasingly shaped not by public opinion but by large
donors. For example, just this week, the credit card industry successfully lobbied for legislation that would curtail the abilities of
individuals to file for bankruptcy. This bill flew through both Houses of Congress without any semblance of public support. The
support mainly came from MBNA, a large contributor to the Republican party, who pushed hard for this bill and was
rewarded. Vote buying is illegal, but this bribery is commonplace.

The list of such abuses goes on and on. For instance, Senator McCain and others introduced legislation to curb teen
smoking and tobacco advertising in 1998. As a response, the tobacco industry gave $4.6 million to the Republicans and $900,000
to the Democrats, and the popular bill was killed. Further evidence of the tobacco industry’s undue influence on policy can
be gleaned from the $50 billion dollar tax credit for the industry in the event of a settlement of lawsuits
with states that was included in the 1998 budget. Public indignation was so pronounced that Congress was forced to repeal
this provision.

Other instances of undue corporate influence can be found in the debates over gun control, casino gambling, drug pricing, and
auto safety. Time and time again, democracy and the will of the people have lost out to powerful interest groups.
Following the excesses of the 2000 campaign season, the financing system urgently needs to be reformed. Donations continue to skyrocket.
The US Public Interest Research Group found that fundraising for Congressional elections has risen 425% since 1978, reaching $1 billion
this year. Those who kowtow to corporate interests receive the bulk of this money. USPIRG reports that “the candidate who
raises the most money wins 94 percent of the House and Senate campaigns.” The amount of soft money spent by
special interests continues to rise. According to the Christian Science Monitor, “Soft-money contributions soared in the last election cycle -
jumping from $22 million in 1984 to more than $480 million last year.”

The bill would ban donations to parties from unions and corporations, limit the size of individual donations to parties, and
curb issue advocacy ads from independent groups. It would hugely reduce the power of special interest groups. According to McCain,
“Every single special-interest group in America... that through the use of money obtains access and influence in the legislative process
is scared to death about this legislation because it diminishes their influence in campaigns.” As a result, the disconnect between
the government’s legislative priorities and the will of the people is more pronounced than ever. The net result is simple:
your vote continues to matter less and less. The McCain-Feingold-Cochran Bill would begin the process of reform by reducing the
amount of soft money spent by special interests.

Do stone people matter more than the fleshy kind?
By KHOURY ASHOOH Columnist

Barbarians are everywhere. An example of their presence is in China, a country whose government recently arrested two Christian ministers
as they were leading a prayer service in a home. Or perhaps Iraq, where the leader entertains himself by stealing
from his population and torturing it with fear. And then there’s Cuba. Thanks to its leader, a 100-mile trip across
the shark-infested sea on a few wooden boards looks more appetizing than life in the island prison. But there is
perhaps one place on Earth that is ruled by the most barbaric of barbarians: Afghanistan. The small Central-Asian country has
been ravaged by war and famine for nearly thirty years. It is a place that seems to have been more
advanced during the time of the Silk Road trading than it is today. A substantial part of the country’s problems
lies in decades of neglect, isolation, and war. But the largest portion of the blame should be placed upon the
leaders of aFaction in control of 90% of the country; the radical Taliban, Muslims. The Taliban have ruled nearly all
of Afghanistan since 1996, and with their rule have come harsh mandates in the name of fostering and preserving Islam.
Perhaps one of the strangest edicts issued by the Taliban came nearly one month ago when the movement’s supreme leader,
Mullah Mohammad Omar, ordered the destruction of all statues in the country, claiming that they were offensive to Islam. World
outcry ensued—especially when learning that the nearly 2000-year-old sandstone Bamiyan Buddhas, the world’s largest Buddhas, were included as a target
to be demolished. The international community pled with the Taliban to spare the Buddhas. Even New York City’s Metropolitan Museum
of Art offered to buy the statues in the country and pay for their removal, but the Taliban refused. The
world (most notably the Taliban’s closest ally, Pakistan, along with Islamic hardline theocracy Iran and many vocal Buddhist nations) expressed
outrage and sought a reversal to the edict. Yet the Taliban refused all pleas, and Afghanistan’s museums were plundered and
statues were smashed. And the Bamiyan Buddhas were destroyed in a barrage of artillery shells.

Never mind how ridiculous it is that the Taliban would rather spend money on weapons to destroy stone statues than
on food and medicine for the people of Afghanistan. Set aside the fact that the loss of the statues, both
large and small, was both an assault on world heritage and was deemed an act of religious bigotry by many
Buddhists. And finally, ignore the fact that Mullah Mohammad Omar ordered the slaughter of 100 cows in Afghanistan as a
way to atone for the “fact” that the Taliban took so long in destroying the statues. All of these actions
show just how barbaric these misguided Muslims are, and they should not be ignored when forming foreign policy. Yet it
wasn’t until giant stone statues were threatened that the world offered its unified condemnation of the Taliban. It is true
that only three countries recognize the Taliban as the official government of Afghanistan, but for nearly five years since the
Taliban Movement began gaining territory, it has treated its subjects harshly and it has protected its terrorist mastermind Osama bin
Laden and the world community has done next to nothing.

The small Central Asian country of Afghanistan has been ravaged by war and famine for nearly 30 years. The Taliban
prohibit the education of women. They outlaw television. They forbid women from being unaccompanied outside of their homes. They persecute
ethnic minorities, and there have been reports of spontaneous executions of these minorities. The Taliban have made trimming one’s beard
a jailable offense. And the list goes on. Taliban spokesman Abdul Hai Mutmain said recently that Islam is a progressive
religion and that “it was for the sake of progress that the idols were destroyed.” Islam is indeed a progressive,
peaceful, and tolerant religion, but ironically the real enemies of progress are obviously the Taliban.

The manner in which the Taliban treat their people is abhorrent. The only rights the people of Afghanistan have are
the right to do everything the Taliban say and the right to be executed if orders are disobeyed. Yet the
world seemed only to voice a care when some stone statues were threatened. Where are the priorities of the world
community? The Taliban’s assault on world culture is appalling, but their assault on their own people is even more so.
Stone can be replaced and rebuilt, but people can only be remembered. The world community should show as much concern
and place as much pressure on the Taliban to change the way they treat their people as it did to
change their plans to demolish the statues.

However, it is important to remember that soft money only represents some of the money contributed to campaigns. Hard money,
money donated to individual candidates by citizens, represents the majority of the money involved in campaigns and elections. A proposed
amendment that Senator McCain supports would triple current hard money limits. This is an unacceptable compromise and would leave our
system no closer to true reform than it currently is. Wealthy contributors would gain even more influence over individual campaigns
than they already have. Furthermore, there is little public support for such an increase. Doris Haddock, the ninety-one-year-old woman who
walked to Washington to drum up support for campaign finance reform, points out that when asked, almost ninety percent of
visitors to McCain’s own website, StraightTalkAmerica.com, rejected this idea. The public wants to finally curb the undue influence of big
money in campaigns. Therefore, we strongly support McCain-Feingold-Cochran without this harmful provision. It is an important first step in revitalizing
our democracy and reducing voter apathy.
