**PRESS RELEASE**

The Union Board

Authorities have identified twelve suspects in the recent toilet papering of the newly dedicated Alvarez College Union. Union Director William Brown said that all twelve members of the Union Board have been brought in for questioning as part of the ongoing investigation into the rolling. “This act disrupted the way we work and live,” Brown said. “We must find the perpetrator, and bring him or her to justice.”

Brown disclosed that the list of suspects included the three officers of the Union Board in addition to its nine members. “I can’t understand why these people might have done such a thing. Just because I get the credit for the successes of this building doesn’t mean they should deface our new union. I expect leadership from the officers, not this.”

When asked to comment, Union Board Vice President Adam Hill dismissed Brown’s implications as ridiculous. “There is absolutely no basis for any accusations against me. I cannot vouch for [Union Board President] Will [Parker] and [Vice President] PJ [Martin]. I’ve always thought those two were shady characters.”

Martin, on the other hand, similarly rejected the idea that he had anything to do with it. He also gave Union Board Ambassador Amy Poe an alibi, but he could not specifically identify her whereabouts. “We need to investigate this issue further before we jump to conclusions. After all, look at Katie Vogel; she is the newest Board member, and she is a transfer after all.”

Suspects identified in vandalism of Union.

Martin also brought up the specter of what authorities are calling a crucial piece of evidence. “We know that there was a bowl of popcorn leftover from a Union Board film event found at the scene. This does not look good for Cody,” referring to Union Board Films Chair Cody Ruxton. Authorities did not rule out the possibility of several Board members working together.

Brown mentioned that Union Board Artist Series Chair Aditi Sethi has gone on record saying that she always thought toilet papering the Union would be fun. “It would not surprise me if Aditi were to have had some help,” Brown speculated. Union Board Concerts Chair Liz Smith, Speakers Chair Andrew MacDonald, Special Events Chair Rachel May, and Student Performers Chair Pryor Dawson don’t have “credible alibis,” Brown said.

Union Board Publicity Chair Karen Sweeney vowed to find the guilty party. “I’m going to find this person; I have found my calling. We will get to the bottom of this.” Sweeney predicted that the investigation would be concluded on or by November 10, which happens to be the date of the Union Board Mystery Giveaway. The Giveaway so far includes a free dinner and battle of the bands from area talent. To complement this event, Sweeney has pledged $500 of her committee money to elicit students’ help in identifying the responsible suspect.

Contact Karen Sweeney, Union Board Publicity Chair, at x6154 for more information.

SAE prepares to go before committee

SAE, fromPage 1

"...tation of the individuals.” A joint investigation led by PCC and SAE continues to uncover details about the incident. Newly-identified eyewitnesses have offered accounts of the incident, while the plaintiff has supplied additional information as well. The new information has helped clarify what happened several weeks ago but only surfaced publicly last week.

Since last week, the plaintiff in the case wrote an e-mail to Hoffman clarifying that he and another individual were not chased by the assaulters, as reported earlier, but rather the two walked away after the plaintiff was hit by a beer can. The student filed a formal complaint with the Residence Life Office on Oct. 9, three days after the incident.

In the e-mail (given to The Davidsonian by Hoffman), the plaintiff also stated that he did not wish any punishment on SAE and would be pleased only to see the fraternity sponsor an educational program. The plaintiff could not be reached for comment.

In addition to the plaintiff’s e-mail, Hoffman was also made aware of several eyewitnesses. One witness reported that people on the porches of SAE and Warner Hall (who also hosted a party on Oct. 6) were apparently throwing beer cans at anyone who walked by. Hoffman sent these e-mails to the school administration but said he has received no reply.

Dr. Mary Vasquez, Spanish Department Chair and SAE’s faculty advisor, said, “I am concerned over the discrepancies between the story that the brothers of SAE were originally given and that which is now given.”

“There is definitely a breakdown somewhere,” she said.

Hoffman appeared at the Student Government Association meeting last Thursday to ask for the SGA’s support during the investigation and to answer senators’ questions. SGA President Joey Harris ’02 indicated that the SGA fully supported the steps SAE and Patterson Court were taking to address the incident.

The J-Board is the body composed of fraternity and eating house members who hear and pass judgment on cases before they reach the Dean of Students’ Office. Dean of Students Tom Shandley ultimately either accepts the J-Board’s ruling or overrules it. The Board keeps its proceedings and rulings confidential until after Dean Shandley has made his final decision.

SAE is still deciding whether to bring the entire fraternity’s membership or only its officers to the hearings to testify. Hoffman does hope the plaintiff and the witnesses who have come forward will attend the hearing and give their accounts.

Vasquez says that she admires SAE’s comeback and the effort that they are putting forth in seeing this case through.

NOW OPEN! THE DELI RESTAURANT SINCE 1976
16639 Birkdale Commons
Jason's Deli
$1.00 off any item for Dine-in or Delivery
Good through 11/30/01

Giant Stuffed Potatoes
Big Deli Style Sandwiches
New Orleans Style Muffalettas
Huge Fresh Salad Bar
Box Lunches
99¢ Kids Menu
Free Ice Cream
And Much More
Catering For Any Occasion

Jason's Deli
Huntersville
704-895-2505
704-895-2504 FAX
www.jasonsdeli.com