Photojournalist brings Tibet to Davidson

By Erin BERRY

Photography Editor

Award-winning photojournalist Steve Lehman spent over ten years photographing the Tibetan people: photographs that would later become a part of his 1998 book, The Tibetans: A Struggle to Survive.

Tuesday night Mr. Lehman presented a talk and slide show featuring his intensely emotional, stirring pictures of Tibet and her people.

Lehman began his career as a photojournalist in 1987 when he first captured images of the first Pan-Independence movement in Tibet. Since then his photographs have appeared in Newsweek, The New Yorker, and the Washington Post, as well as on news stations such as CBS and NBC. His 1998 book on the Tibetans received the Best Book Award in 1999.

Earlier in the afternoon a group of students joined Lehman on the Union Patio for a forum about his career in photojournalism as well as his experiences and thoughts in creating his book. When asked how the initial idea for his book came about he spoke of his frustration with the prior portrayal of Tibet in the media and popular culture, sparking his desire to begin such a project. Lehman said, “I wanted to create a book that would give a voice to the Tibetan people, give a voice to a people that might otherwise not have access to the outside world and to tell the story of Tibet in a factual and real way.” His book is a conglomeration of black and white as well as color photographs, but also news photographs, collages, quotes and oral histories he gathered while traveling in the country.

The slide show and lecture in Love Auditorium presented many of the photographs and collages featured in his book. Described as “intentionally disturbing,” the photographs were a powerful demonstration of a side of Tibet that is not often seen. Lumber yards and uranium mines, prisons, political demonstrations and montages of photographs of political prisoners and political martyrs: each was a strong representation of the reality that is modern-day Tibet. During the slide show, Lehman read quotes that he had gathered from Tibetan people, helping to give a voice to his images.

One of the photographs was of the 1987 demonstration when a group of young Tibetan monks staged a peaceful protest that included the carrying of homemade Tibetan flags. This was one of the first photographs Lehman took in Tibet. Several years later he explained, he was able to interview one of the leaders of the demonstration after he had escaped to India. Lehman read from an oral history he collected from this young monk who explained, “we could not remain silent to the things that were happening.”

Erin Berry

Wednesday, APR. 4, 2001

Newly Elected Honor Council Members

Class of 2003

Steph Connelly
Adam Hill
Sam Weathers

Class of 2004

Mary Carpenter
Luke Farmer
Amber Parke

WebTree, from page 1

might happen if there’s a rush on the system and 350 people try to access it during the last fifteen minutes it’s open,” he said. He is confident, however, that minor problems will be solved quickly and the new system will be successful. “We don’t want our effort to do something new and better to imperil anyone’s ability to get the courses they need,” he commented.

This year, because of the online capabilities, incoming first-year students will also use the tree system. Instructions and helpful hints will be available on the website. Dr. Epes expects the new system to significantly benefit students studying abroad. Currently, they must submit their trees through the mail, and the registration process begins whether or not all trees are in. Now, students who are abroad will be assured of being able to submit their preferences on time.

Also different this semester is the selection of non-credit and P.E. courses. Students will enroll in non-credits during Drop/Add, not during this initial registration period. The P.E. department will handle enrollment for all its classes through a separate website. While the appearance of registration will change, its general procedures and methods will not. “This doesn’t change the information process. Registration, despite its eccentricities, is widely perceived as fair and nothing about that will change,” said Epes.

Brakes
Tune-ups
Air Conditioning

- Full Service Auto Repair:
Oil Changes
NC Inspections

- Computer Alignment & Wheel Balancing

LAKE NORMAN

Serving Lake Norman since 1992

Celebrating 9 Years

Serving The Lake Norman

10% Discount on Parts & Labor to Davidson Students

704-892-6590

18705 Statesville Rd., Cornelius
www.lakenormanauto.com
M-F 7:30-5:30, Sat. 8-12

BRIDGESTONE

A GRIP ON THE FUTURE
Firestone

DAYTON

MICHELIN

DUNLOP

DRIVING TO THE FUTURE

Free Rotation with purchase of a set of tires!