SRT att

I'm not sure if it's spring main face seeshuchen.
May 22-25. Visiting Associate Professor Jack

... manners, which begins at 8 p.m. each night in

musicians as they see their ... the pen. This fifteen-minute
performance will commence at 8 p.m. on Friday, February 15, in Love Auditorium.

... say for students, a

healthy habits, warns

about eating disorders

By Jessica MERING
News Editor

Eating disorders are the third most common illness among young women. In an effort to face this problem, the Student Health Center brought nutritionist Janet Lepke Harris to campus as part of Eating Disorder Awareness Week.

Lepke appeared in the 900 Room last Wednesday to discuss healthy eating habits and the dangers of skewed attitudes toward food. She pointed out that thinness is a “cultural value” which feeds a $40 billion per year diet industry. Lepke cited a recent study by the California Department of Health Services which noted that 80% of fourth-grade girls are or have been on a diet.

Eating disorders, which can include anorexia nervosa, bulimia, and overeating, are often triggered by much more than simply the desire to be thin, Lepke said. Alcohol or food abuse, sexual abuse, depression, or a need for control are commonly underlying issues in individuals with eating disorders. A poor relationship with food is then a symptom of a larger problem. Traits commonly associated with eating disorders are compulsive needs for control and the constant desire for perfection. Many also respond to stress with food; unhealthy overeating is a typically dangerous reaction.

Lepke outlined the health risks of eating disorders and emphasized their possible severity. Damage can occur in the form of lost menstrual periods, stress fractures, dehydration, and cramps. Permanent injury to internal organs is also possible. Aside from these problems, Lepke reminded the audience that dieting can actually lead to weight gain. Unhealthy dieting will lead to excessive hunger which individuals will often curb by overeating. Lepke called this “dieting your way to obesity.”

Certain myths must be dispelled in order to eat properly, said Lepke. It is not true that meals must be cooked in order to be healthy, or that all snacking leads to weight gain. She encouraged the audience not to assume that frozen or packaged foods, fast food, or restaurant fare is necessarily unhealthy. Lepke noted that it is not necessary to eat three full meals each day. Instead, it is just as acceptable to have smaller, more frequent meals without gaining weight. She also said that while it is important not to connect food with emotional distress, individuals should not be at a point where they feel guilty after eating certain foods. “It is important to feel comfortable eating a Twinkie after a hard day,” she commented.

Instead of constant attention to weight, Lepke suggested other ways to gauge well-being. Questions like “Do I feel better? Do I have more energy? Am I performing better? Am I happier?” are helpful for self-monitoring. Overall, Lepke emphasized control over food and feeling comfortable with eating instead of focusing on exercise or calorie counting.

David Wheeler contributed to this article.

Traffic Accident 2/12/01

Officers assisted the town of Davidson Police Department with a vehicular accident at Main Street and Glasgow. Medics responded to the scene and transported the driver of one of the vehicles to the hospital for further examination. The other driver was examined at the scene and released.

Alcohol Violation 2/11/01

Officer cited a subject for underage consumption of an alcoholic beverage. The subject was intoxicated and required assistance from the officer. This incident will be forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Suspicious Person 2/9/01

Officers responded to Little residence hall to investigate a suspicious person complaint. The suspicious person was described as a white male wearing a red sweatshirt, blue jeans, and a Halloween devil’s mask. Upon arrival, the officers were unable to locate anyone fitting the description.

Damage to Property 2/8/01

A member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity reported that an unknown person threw a beer can through the front window of the house, breaking the glass and causing approximately $30 worth of damage.

For 2/07/01 - 2/13/01

Alcohol Violation 2/8/01

Officer cited a subject for underage consumption of an alcoholic beverage near the Outpost. This incident will be forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Drunk & Disruptive Subject 2/8/01

Officer observed a golf cart with approximately 6 passengers driving recklessly on the grass behind the Outpost. The officer stopped the golf cart and made contact with the driver. The driver was cooperative and turned over the key to the officer. One of the passengers began to argue with the officer and disregarded the officer’s request to leave the area. The subject was intoxicated and continued to be disruptive. The officer identified the subject and informed the subject that he would be cited for his behavior. This incident will be forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Loud Party 2/8/01

Officer received a complaint regarding a loud party at the Kappa Alpha fraternity house. Upon arrival, the officer heard loud music coming from the house. The officer observed approximately 50 people in the house and made contact with one of the members. The member promptly turned off the music and cleared the house.

Compiled by Marlon Lynch,
Assistant Director of Campus Police