Editorial

As the semester draws to a close, it seems appropriate to reflect on the issues our newspaper and our campus
have faced this semester. We as a student body have seen a variety of events that have shaped us as
people, as a school, and as friends. We’ve seen many high points — but we’ve also survived one of the
most horrific events in American history. There is no doubt this has been one of the most incredible semesters that
Davidson has seen.

Can anyone really remember anything that happened between the beginning of school and that fateful day when terrorists slammed airplanes
into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon? It probably isn’t an exaggeration to say that Sept. 11 was our
baptism by fire, the defining moment of our generation. It tested our character, as did the events that followed. We
as a campus found ourselves divided over revenge and passiveness, and yet united in grief. Our nation has gone to
war, tempers have flared, passions are high—yet we have survived. Our serene and sheltered existence continues much as it did
before; the constant flow of classes, parties, and activities is only slightly altered by the now-omnipotent reports on CNN.

Other events have also shaken our traditional sense of security. We saw the worst in our campus in October when
two young men were assaulted during a party because of their sexual orientation. Although initial reports were blown out of
proportion and the incident was resolved, the fact that it happened at all should be deeply unsettling. Even more painfully,
we lost one of our own, junior Virginia Logan, in a tragic death.

But there is much to be proud of at Davidson. Last week’s forum on homosexuality was an important step toward
appreciating and respecting people of all backgrounds, particularly homosexuals. Efforts to improve relations between the Campus Police and Patterson Court
are well underway. Constructive discussions about the Honor Code may lead to revisions that many feel will greatly benefit its
great tradition. The College will garner national attention when the Royal Shakespeare Company arrives for a two-week residency in February.
The new Union was finally dedicated in October and is quickly becoming a magnet for student gatherings and activities. And
who can forget the men’s basketball team’s stunning upset of North Carolina?

Summing up this historic, stressful, exhilarating semester in a single sentence is far beyond anyone’s ability. We offer here only
a snapshot of the many events that comprise our memories of this semester. Some bring joy and satisfaction, others sadness
and regret. Hopefully, they have all made us stronger as Davidson students and citizens of the world.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin

Managing Editors
Tim Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Rindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh
Gavin Weber

Sports Editors
Cee Hauser
Jimmy

Opinion Editors
Aaron Houck
Jeff Lartimore

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

by WILEY

YES, AS A MATTER OF FACT, I AM WITH THE GOVERNMENT. HOW'D YOU GUESS?

Thanks for your comments at forum on social life

Dean Shandley and I are very grateful to those who attended the recent forum on social life. While we arrived
at no grand conclusions, it was a necessary initial step to identify those areas about which people have complaints or
suggestions. Only by dealing with concerns about what is currently in place, will we be able to move on to
consider what might be.

There were several specific issues raised to which we have some suggestions for change. In addition, the comments seemed to
fall into a number of broader categories that we would like to explore the next time we meet. These groupings
included:

- Alcohol-free social options
- The need for more resources to be directed toward intramurals, club sports, and other “informal” groups
- The need for programming to better reflect the diversity of students on the campus
- The challenge of increasing social interaction between students and faculty
- The perception that the Code of Responsibility takes a vacation on weekends north of Dorm Row
- The Union is the “students’ building” and the ambience and the programming should reflect that fact
- A mutually supportive and beneficial relationship between the Patterson Court organizations and the Union.

While the exigencies of the exam period preclude another gathering prior to the holiday break, we look forward to scheduling
one immediately upon the beginning of the spring semester. We will try to structure it in a way that allows
not only for general comments and reactions to some suggestions that Dean Shandley and I have.I will make, but also
provide each person the opportunity to work on one of the topics listed above. In this way, we would hope
to move ourselves beyond simply wallowing in gripes about what we are doing now, and begin to plan new approaches
to offering you a broad social agenda which is fun, exciting, and the quality of which is nonpareil.

President Bobby Vagt

Why is the burden always on us guys?
In response to “Why is dating so difficult?” (Perspectives, Nov. 28)

As Davidson’s most available bachelor, I was taken aback by Ali Fitzgerald’s article. In post-90s America, can all the blame
for the lack of dating really be put on the men of this campus? No one asked me out to
a cup of coffee, invited me to dinner or a movie, or both. Maybe I’m just being overly sensitive, as
us strikingly dateable guys so often do, but we can’t all be cowboys, and women can’t keep laying the burden
on us. Besides, if Ali were to ask me out on a date this weekend, I doubt that anyone would
call her a dominatrix.

Shy guys are very available, and probably not the type to show you their futons on the first date. Most
of us know that a date is just a date. The equality that we’ve been fighting for seems to have
been left behind as far as dating, preferred instead to one of the remaining stereotypes of machismo. Cowboys didn’t have
girlfriends, they had whorehouses. If the image of a cowboy is still that appealing, why not ask a Texan out
on a date? Tell him to wear his hat; he’ll be thrilled.

The universal complaint that men don’t understand women, in my opinion, is just another reason why she should make the
first move. If you think I’m missing all of those sure-fire signals you sent me, you’re right! Regarding our apparent
commitment phobia, we have every right to be that way. That’s what college is all about. Besides, it’s expensive to
have a girlfriend. Next semester, let’s make a collective effort to diminish the need for drunken hook-ups. A kiss is
a lot more powerful when we’re not using alcohol to drown the butterflies in our stomachs.

Greg Harris, ‘05

Students, here’s how to save money on meals
Attention all students with five and 10 meal plans at the Commons: Drop your meal plan and put the money
in your declining balance account instead. You’re lucky to save money with the meal plans, and more likely you’ll lose
it. While you’re at it, you can free yourself from the worries and constraints of a meal plan.

I assumed that buying a meal plan meant I would be receiving significant savings. But a five-meal plan most likely
locks you into losing around $30 over the semester, even if you go to all your meals every week (my
calculations account for Bonus Bucks). The average meal at Commons costs $6.58, but the average meal cost with a five-meal
plan is $7. The numbers for the ten-meal plan aren’t much better - $50 savings at best. To be fair,
if you use all your meals at the most expensive times (breakfast = $5.70, lunch = $6.60, dinner = $7.25)
you could save $20 with the five and $125 with the 10, but that’s an unrealistic scenario. Everyone misses meals,
there are partial weeks around holidays, you don’t always go to dinners and you don’t necessarily use all your bonus
bucks.

With this in mind, consider that paying with your declining balance liberates you from the constraints of the meal plan.
On a meal plan, you have to worry about making it to all of your meals every week or you’re
just throwing your money away, especially since your margin of savings is so slim on the five and 10 meal
plans. What’s more, in case you haven’t realized, every time you use your meal plan at the Union Café, you’re
throwing away $1.45 to $2.15. With declining balance you’re free to get whatever you want and you’ll be paying for
exactly what you buy. And you can save money because you aren’t forced into spending all your Bonus Bucks.

I agree with Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, that the Commons is not trying to deceive anyone with the
five and 10 meal plans. It is possible to save money, but you won’t. So make sure you drop your
meal plan before the Jan. 18 deadline or else you’ll have to pay a fee.

Adam Rocap ’02

In the wee hours of this morning, my tenure as editor of The Davidsonian came to an end. This newspaper
has served our community exceptionally well, thanks to the many folks you see listed to the left.
