parties going on past one o’clock, where is someone who enjoys the Court environment supposed to go then?”

To support their position, Patterson brought along two sophomores, one a former resident of Richardson and another who lives in the sophomore apartments, who explained that the noise from the Court doesn’t bother them.

For now, Patterson said, they won’t open the “can of worms” that is the alcohol policy. Furthermore, “we’re not going to live or die by the quiet hours policy.” He emphasized that he is open to other solutions.

An ad hoc committee composed of students, RLO employees, and Campus Safety officials has been formed to review the way the current policy is being enforced. If the group can come to an agreement, a formal change in policy may be unnecessary.

“If we can’t reach an agreement, we’ll go back to CCRL and explore a change in the quiet hours policy,” said Patterson.

One change Patterson suggested might be discussed would be a “warning” before parties are shut down due to noise.

If the matter were referred back to CCRL, Harris explained, “The committee looks at the proposal, discusses it, and decides whether or not the proposal merits support and a subsequent recommendation to the president. Support from the CCRL carries a great deal of weight with President Vagt.”

“I would just urge any student who has a concern about the social life here on campus to attend the Forum on November 14th,” Harris concluded. “Come and ask questions that you seek answers to. Communication is the best way to solve those issues.”

Students look ahead to forum

- Social Forum, from page 1

I’d like both Independents and Patterson Court members to tell each other how they feel about Court parties, and how fraternities and eating houses can invite freshmen and Independents as guests and rely on them to be responsible and respectful in the houses.

Mary Kat White
Patterson Court Council Sergeant-at-Arms

The forum has been needed for a while. Recent events just point out the need that has always been there. I think recent events highlight the difficulties of maintaining the open party system (encouraged by the administration and enjoyed by the whole campus), in which houses are unrealistically expected to control and monitor everyone’s behavior. This applies not only to recent events, but also to things like house damages and overconsumption of alcohol.

Renee Miller
President, Turner Eating House

The obvious event that people look to is the unfortunate situation that happened at SAE several weeks ago. However, I think this forum has been needed for some time, and only after a major event did it come to light exactly how badly it was needed.

Amanda Mordavsky
President, Rusk Eating House

The forum is needed if for no other reason than to make it clear to the student body what the administration’s intentions are. I feel that a lot of the friction between the two groups arises from a lack of communication, so hopefully this will help clarify the situation. I think we have too many regulations. While some are necessary to maintain order, we are all adults on this campus and should have more control over when and where social activities occur.

Michael Clifton
President, Pi Kappa Alpha

I think a forum is a good idea because the Patterson Court social life is an integral part of most every student’s experience. I don’t have any ideas, but will be open to those proposed at the forum.

Ryan Kinney
President, Phi Gamma Delta

I’d like to hear some truly honest debates about the following issues:

1. The lack of communication from the administration and the overall, arguably undeserved sense of mistrust that the Patterson Court houses hold for any plan or individual from the administration.

2. The paradox we call the Davidson College alcohol policy.

3. The fact that the student body can be uncompromising and downright bratty, unable to take the perspective of the administration and simply “grow up,” a problem that makes for animosity, poor communication, and unaccountability.

4. The lack of commitment and responsibility to one’s house. Right now, I think that students look at the Court with the concept that it is something from which to take, a resource to use up, “a college fling thing.”

5. The inconsistency by which the College Police and RLO uphold the policies of the College. Policies need to be upheld always or never so that a system as undefined as J-Board or the office of the Patterson Court Advisor does then not regulate in such a whimsical manner.

Grant West
President, Kappa Sigma

“About 95 percent of the impact on this campus. Don’t be apathetic. Get involved.”

SGA RESOLUTION

Time To Be Thankful. Time To Travel. Time To Take Your Vehicle To Griffin Brothers Tire Sales For An Auto Physical!

GRIFFIN BROTHERS TIRE SALES, INC.

Present This Coupon For

$10 OFF An Auto Physical!

The Auto Physical Includes...
* An Oil Change & Filter
* Complete Safety Inspection
* Tire Rotation & Brake Inspection

Lake Norman * 19141 W. Catawba Ave. * 704.896.8473
University Area * 8040 N. Tryon St. * 704.549.8595
Uptown Charlotte * Mooresville * Concord * www.griffinbrothers.com