Fen’s soccer jumps to 3-1 with wins over Army

Wildcats flex their muscle early in the season with shutout win over Army, now look to build on success in conference season

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Davidson’s men’s soccer team has found the winning touch and is positioning itself to be a serious contender in the Southern Conference.

Coming off a tournament championship last weekend, the Wildcats recorded two more wins this week, knocking off conference foe UNC-Greensboro and the Black Knights of Army.

Matt Monson
Senior Jon Tetirick tallied two assists against Army

The ‘Cats defeated UNCG on Thursday night by a score of 2-1, the first time Davidson has beaten the Spartans since the 1997 season.

“The win over Greensboro was big because they are a conference rival who was picked ahead of us in the preseason poll,” commented Head Coach Matt Spear. “It was important for the seniors especially because they haven’t beaten UNCG before.”

Senior Chris Norbet found the back of the net just three minutes into the second half as he capitalized on a misplayed ball by the UNCG goalkeeper. It was Norbet again, this time in the 64th minute off a pass from sophomore Justin Porter, who scored what proved to be the game-winner after UNCG tied it up in the 52nd minute.

Playing in their regular season home opener in front of a loud, boisterous crowd, the Wildcats shut out Army 5-0. In a game that was characterized by fouls and one rather clever goal celebration, the Wildcats maintained possession throughout and Coach Spear was able to give most of his subs ample playing time.

Norbet and freshman Dan Ferriter led the scoring, each netting two, and freshman Matt Berman finished off the Black Knights in the 79th minute, when he hammered home a Keith Nicholson rebound and then turned to the Army crowd to flash his best salute.

Goalkeepers Soren Johnson and Shihab Sugeir combined for the shutout. Senior Jon Tetirick notched two assists and seniors Paul Watson and Erik Ozimek each tallied one assist apiece.

“The challenge against Army was to see how we would react after a big win. We had to match their intensity and enthusiasm, which we did, and then our skill just took over,” Spear noted.

Next up for the Wildcats is Radford, who comes to town Friday for a 5 p.m. showdown.

Challenging road schedule frustrates women’s soccer
Road losses at the hands of Navy, South Carolina make the early going tough for the Wildcats

By JIMMY SWANSBROUGH
Sports Editor

Road-weary and battle-frayed, the women’s soccer team returned from the Naval Academy Invitational Sunday with two tough losses. On Saturday, the Cats fell to Navy in a 4-1 loss, but came back the next day to challenge Columbia to a grueling 2-1 defeat.

After last Thursday’s 4-0 loss to South Carolina in Columbia, the Cats hoped to improve upon their 0-2 record, but the two tough breaks over the weekend dropped the team to 0-4 for the season.

In a match against Navy, Davidson’s lone goal came from forward Leigh Anne Hoskins on a penalty kick in the 62nd minute. Shoved within the 18-yard box by a Navy defender, Hoskins, a sophomore, was awarded the penalty and placed the ball firmly in the net.

The goal yielded the team’s first of the season but failed to suffice before the final whistle. The Cats took 12 shots on goal, and freshman keeper Sarah Hobart tallied six more saves for the season.

Hobart chalked up two more Sunday to set her at 23 for the season, and the rest of the Cats’ defense fought hard to keep the Columbia Lions at bay. After a scoreless first half, however, the Lions' offense pounced. Two Columbia goals came in quick succession 10 minutes into the second half, daring the Cats to strike back.

That dare came 23 minutes into the half from sophomore midfielder Catie Williams off an assist from Hoskins, but the goal merely foiled a shutout. The Cats were out-shot by the Lions 7-12, marking the end to a tough series of away games.

Women’s coach Kevin Hundley remained optimistic: “We sorted some things out over the weekend. It’s important that we show improvement, and we did.”

In four games, the Cats have traveled to three different cities: Durham, Columbia, S.C., and Annapolis, Md., but none of the four challenging matches fall within Southern Conference play. The Cats play The Citadel for their first conference game of the season next Saturday in Charleston, S.C. The team hopes to heal some of its injury-laden starters before that day. Junior forward Heather Maloney and senior midfielder Carolyn Stumpf both suffer from nagging injuries. Their loss is detrimental to the Cats’ successful offensive attack.

Hundley said, “Right now we’re getting an extended look at some of our players...I’d love somebody to step up for us.”

The Wildcats finally return home to play ELON on Wednesday, September 12 at 7:00 in Richardson Stadium. Last year’s match ended in a 1-0 victory over Elon.

Nothing like a little challenge to get to the top.

How to think on your feet. Stay cool under pressure. Take charge. Talk to an Army ROTC rep. You’ll find there’s more information by visiting us at 7 Jackson Court or call 894-2165.

Said Hundley: “We can’t assume [the game] is going to be a win and look past it.”

After this, the corporate ladder will be a piece of cake.