THE DAVIDSONIAN
By Emily Drew, Staff Writer

“If mental illnesses are recognized early on, the illness can be treated effectively,” said DeWitt Crosby, the Student Health Facility
Counselor. Crosby and Health Educator Georgia Ringle have been working with the student health advisors—Liz Billet '04, Zoe McCoy '04,
Rory Adams '04, and Julia Philpott '02—to coordinate Depression Awareness Week. Running since Monday, the educational week will continue through
Friday and will include the National Depression Screening Program, freshman hall programs, and a showing of Good Will Hunting.

The National Depression Screening Program is a brief survey that anyone can use to identify the warning signs of depression
and discover if they are possibly depressed. The questionnaire—available in Alvarez—includes questions about fatigue, loss of interest, continual sadness, irregular
sleeping habits, lack of concentration, and change in appetite. Although not all of the symptoms are always seen together in
cases of depression, recognition of these difficulties can be a first step in recognizing depression.

“We hope this will encourage people to get help for all depressive illnesses,” said Crosby of the survey. Once students
determine the results of their questionnaire, they will be more informed to make a decision about seeking help.

ARE YOU DEPRESSED?
Expressing feelings of:
- sadness or “emptiness”
- hopelessness, pessimism, or guilt
- helplessness or worthlessness

Seeming to be:
- unable to make decisions
- unable to concentrate or remember
- uninterested in previously enjoyable activities
- having more problems with school and sex

Complaining of:
- loss of energy and drive

Behavior changes such as:
- being more restless or irritable
- wanting to be alone much of the time
- cutting classes or dropping activities
- drinking more or taking drugs

Talking about:
- death
- suicide

Beware if a friend shows several of these symptoms of depression...

Fraternity placed on probation
Kappa Sig, from page 1

“while being president is that I’m powerless.” He hopes that the punishment will change the perspectives of the members of
his house as well as others on the Court. “In a way, social probation could have been easier on us.
This [being dry] offers a challenge to see if we can have a rush without alcohol. It’s a new direction
for at least our house.”

The ruling not only makes Kappa Sigma ineligible to serve or have alcohol at any function, but also keeps them
from sponsoring any party or function at other houses that serve alcohol. So far, though, the fraternity has not had
to cancel any planned activities, said West, who feels that it is important to stay on course as much as
possible. The house will, however, have to change strategies and activities planned for rush season and pledging. “We’re going to
have to...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Find other sources of fun," said West. "It’s a challenge to see if we can be responsible enough." Other members
of the Court also accepted the ruling as a fair judgment and some saw it as a good way to
show the school that Patterson Court does not need alcohol to operate. "From a legal standpoint, I understand the punishment
because the school must uphold its own policies, but at the same time, I’m very sorry Kappa Sig has gotten
in trouble," said Pi Kappa Alpha President Michael Clifton. "This ruling showed that the court can step up its self-government,"
said White. Others were more stern in their assessment due to the severity of the violation. "Kappa Sig has tested
the boundaries in the alcohol policy before. It is a fair punishment because the J-Board, a delegation of its peers,
decided it," said Matt Arbuckle. "They are fortunate. It could have been much worse."

---

"Breakfast: The Soda Shop Burritos, Omelets, Pancakes. Since 1951. 104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC. Eat-in, Take-out."

---

"Depression is a treatable illness that affects over 12 million people each year. If you are experiencing symptoms, you are
encouraged to make an appointment for individual evaluation at the Student Health Center. Hours are 8:30 am - 5:00 pm
Monday-Friday."

---

"I’m sleeping more or less than I used to. I feel life isn’t worth it sometimes. I don't have much
energy. I get irritated very easily."

---

"Phone for an appointment at x2451. Counseling is open to Davidson students at the Campus Health Facility. Survey tables are
staffed by the student health advisors, and the surveys are confidential. On Thursday evening, the Health Facility will team up
with RLO to host a showing of Good Will Hunting on Belk lawn. The free show begins at 8 PM
and will include popcorn and drinks. The College Health Facilitators, including Ringle and Crosby, are available throughout the year to
students experiencing all levels of depression. They encourage students to recognize that symptoms of depression are not always just temporary
feelings, and that these symptoms can be addressed through counseling."

---

"Getting a Depressed Friend Help:
1. Be persistent. Many people do not follow advice the first time but will after it is suggested a few
times.
2. Follow up with the person - both to find out if they got the help they needed and if
it was helpful.
3. Be as specific as you can in your suggestions - for example, by suggesting a specific person to talk
to and even by helping them get there.
4. Don’t take it personally if they don’t do what you suggest right away - show interest in the outcome,
not just if they did exactly as you suggested.
5. Try to reduce the feelings of being weak or inadequate by letting them know it’s not their fault.
6. Be optimistic and hopeful about their getting help - because their own optimism is diminished."

---

"Lake Norman: 19141 W. Catawba Ave. 704.896.8473. University Area, Uptown Charlotte, Mooresville, Concord. www.griffinbrothers.com. Griffin Brothers Tire Sales, Inc."

---
