By LEE Rae Petry
Special Contributor

You see them in their golf carts, setting up tables, picking up trash, or cleaning your hall. You see them
at Vail Commons or in the Union café... or at the laundry... or in the computer lab. Yet, do you
take time to appreciate these Davidson staff members?

On Monday, April 23, the President’s office and United Community Action (UCA) co-sponsored the first annual Staff Appreciation Day.

A group of UCA students met regularly throughout the semester to plan an event designed to show the staff at
Davidson how much students and professors appreciate them. The students worked to ensure that the day recognized all staff at
Davidson and their individual contributions to the campus. In addition, the organizers wanted to make sure that only students—and not
staff—were responsible for organizing and setting up the event.

Staff Appreciation Day kicked off at 6:00 AM when a small group of students from UCA and SGA met to
distribute Krispy Kreme donuts to numerous staff members around campus. In addition to the donuts, staff members also received commemorative
plastic cups sporting the day’s theme.

According to President Bobby Vagt, “The early morning donuts were a stunner, as most of the staff understand how students
generally regard ‘early’ activities.”

From 4:00-6:00 PM Monday afternoon, approximately 300 Davidson staff members, their families, and other Davidson professors and students attended a
barbecue dinner in honor of the staff on the front lawn of Chambers. Kim D’Ardenne ‘02 felt that “the day
initiated new friendships between students and staff that will hopefully be long-lasting.”

Another component of Staff Appreciation Day was a photo gallery on the first floor of Chambers. The Photo Club designed
this exhibit to highlight the contributions of different staff members to life at Davidson. Photographs of various staff members and
a story about each person based on interviews conducted by UCA and Photo Club members tell students about the personal
lives and campus responsibilities of these staff members.

Response to the day has been overwhelming. Glenda Erwin, Manager of Bookstore Systems, commented, “... it’s nice to know that
they [students] realize that we do care about the way we conduct our jobs and do enjoy dealing with students.
I have always been able to say that Davidson students are unique and this is more proof of the way
Davidsonians are.”

Director of Auxiliary Services, Richard Terry, recalled that in his 12 years at Davidson, there has not been a student-initiated
staff recognition program. He commented that the students’ “attention and sensitivity to the schedules and needs of our employees, particularly
hourly ones, ensured that the event would be meaningful.”

Vagt agreed that “the event itself was a confirmation for the staff that this was not simply lip-service appreciation, as
students mingled and shared a meal with them. While I am not certain that it is humanly possible to express
fully our appreciation for all the staff does, this effort on the part of students was a wonderful message of
thanks.”

Plans for another Staff Appreciation Day in the Fall are in the works. Contact Jeremy Campbell or Kim D’Ardenne if
you would like to be a part of this event.

---

FLEXIBLE HOURS

GET EXPOSURE TO MEDICAL PROFESSION

WILL TRAIN

Immediate position available for medical receptionist in Davidson office of Craig White, M.D. (Class of ’82) Family Practice over some
or all of summer.

---

9 Years Serving The Lake Norman Area

- Full Service Auto Repair:
Brakes, Oil Changes, Tune-ups, NC Inspections, Air Conditioning, Computer Alignment & Wheel Balancing

10% Discount on Parts & Labor to Davidson Faculty, and Staff.

Serving Lake Norman since 1992
704-892-6590
18705 Statesville Rd., Cornelius
www.lakenormanauto.com
M-F 7:30-5:30, Sat. 8-12

Quality repair services

A GRIP ON THE FUTURE

Firestone, Dayton, Dunlop, Michelin

Free Rotation with purchase of a set of tires!
