“Y Wildcats will play North Carolina for first time in 32 years
By Matt Garfield
Sports Editor

The men’s basketball team will play next season what coaches say is among the best non-conference schedules of any mid-major
program in the nation. A formalized schedule won’t be released until August, but assistant coach Matt Matheny said it’s already
shaping up to be among the most challenging in recent memory.

“It’s got a chance to be as difficult a schedule as we’ve played in the last several years,” he said.

Easily the most eye-catching date is Nov. 20, when the Wildcats travel to Chapel Hill to take on North Carolina
for the first time since 1969, when the teams met in the Elite Eight round of the NCAA tournament. The
Tar Heels won 87-85. North Carolina coach Matt Doherty, entering his second season at the school, served as an assistant
on Davidson coach Bob McKillop’s staff in the early 90’s. Because of their lasting friendship, Doherty made an exception to
his rule against playing in-state non-conference opponents.

“Coach McKillop’s relationship with Matt is what allowed this to happen,” Matheny said. “Matt has been very good to us.”

The Wildcats will also play Duke and Georgia Tech at the Charlotte Coliseum. The defending national champion Blue Devils have
played Davidson for the past five seasons, while the Georgia Tech series enters its second year. The team will travel
to Philadelphia, Penn., to take on Pennsylvania in the historic Palestra, an arena that opened in 1927 and is considered
among the most storied gymnasiums in America.

Aside from more than 60 years of Penn basketball, the building has hosted 50 NCAA Tournament games as part of
19 national championship tournaments. It was also the site of the first NCAA Championship in 1939. The team is working
to add two more games to the non-conference schedule, in addition to a Thanksgiving or Christmas holiday tournament and the
usual 16 Southern Conference match-ups. Matheny said the team has always strived to play the toughest schedule possible, even if
it includes games it has little chance of winning.

“We want to win, but the reality of a mid-major program is that you have to do the best you
can to prepare your team for the conference schedule.”

TUESDAY ROUND-UP
from SID reports

TRACK
The Davidson track teams went in different directions to compete this weekend, but both came back with positive results. The
women spent the weekend in Atlanta, Ga. at the Yellow Jacket Invitational while the men were in Durham, N.C. at
the Duke Invitational.

The women had another record-breaking weekend, this time at Georgia Tech. The team saw yet another relay record fall as
the team toppled the school mark in the 4x400 meter relay. The Wildcats finished sixth overall in a time of
4:03.81. The previous mark was 4:07.57. The women have now set school records in the 4x100, 4x200, 4x400 and 4x800
in the past two weekends. In addition to the school record in the 4x400, freshman Melissa Millar (St. Louis, Mo.)
set the school record in the 200 meters with a :26.74. Other strong performances from the women were abundant as
well. Freshman Laura Puckett (St. Paul, Minn.) finished sixth in the 5,000 meters (18:06.78).

For the men, there were five top 30 performances. Sophomore Greg Schernecke (Philadelphia, Pa.) finished 27th (:11.18) while freshman Andrew
Pratt (Basking Ridge, N.J.) was 30th (:11.22) in the 100 meters. Schernecke also earned another 27th place finish with a
time of :58.25 in the 400 hurdles. The men and women will head to Furman University to compete in the
USA Collegiate Series on Saturday, April 14.

SoCon PLAYER OF THE WEEK
Davidson tennis player Whit Hansen has been named Southern Conference Player of the Week for April 10. Hansen, a senior
from Hilton Head, S.C., has played number one singles and doubles for Davidson this season. In four singles matches last
week, Hansen went 3-1 and helped Davidson improve to 10-7 overall and 5-3 in the league. Hansen's 6-1, 6-2 win
over Matt Stubbs of The Citadel on April 7 was his sixth consecutive and fifth in the SoCon. Overall, Hansen
is 9-7 in singles and 11-5 in doubles with teammate and fellow senior Billy Boykin. Four of his singles victories
have been in three sets which leads the team.

Davidson hosts cross-county rival Charlotte today before traveling to Boone, N.C., on Thursday, April 12, to take on Appalachian State.
Matches on Thursday are scheduled to start at 2:30 p.m.MEN’S TENNIS

Visiting Charlotte put a damper on Senior Day for the men’s tennis team as the 49ers defeated the host Wildcats,
6-1. The loss snaps Davidson’s three-match winning streak and is the team’s second loss in its last eight matches. Charlotte
(11-7) has now won five consecutive matches while Davidson falls to 10-8, 3-5 in the Southern Conference.

In doubles action, Charlotte took the number two and three contests to grab an early 1-0 lead. However, seniors Whit
Hansen and Billy Boykin improved to 12-5 at No. 1 doubles by taking out Ola Jonsson and Joakim Peterson, 8-4.
The top four singles players for the 49ers all won in straight sets to seal the Charlotte victory. Junior David
Webb (No. 5) was the only Wildcat to pull out a win as he battled back from one set down
to defeat Simon Dawson 3-6, 6-0, 6-1. Webb’s triumph was his fourth straight and seventh in his last eight matches.
Freshman Bryan Stronestreet (No. 6) managed to split the first two sets but fell in the deciding 10-point tie-breaker, 11-9.
Coming into this match, Charlotte was ranked 58th in the nation by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association.

LOSING STREAK ON THE DIAMOND END

Sophomore Andy Demko took a shutout into the ninth and every starter in the Wildcat lineup had at least one
hit to lift Davidson (14-21) to an 11-4 road win at UNC Asheville (7-22) on Tuesday afternoon. The victory broke
a four-game losing streak for the ‘Cats and helped them take both games from the Bulldogs this season. Davidson does
not play again until next Tuesday, April 17, when the Wildcats travel to Rock Hill, S.C.

The Wildcats suffered through an injury-plagued regular season, finishing in fourth place in the six-team North Division with a 7-9
record (15-17 overall), its worst in six seasons. But they caught fire late in the season and advanced to the
semifinals of the conference tournament before falling to eventual champion UNC Greensboro. The postseason run and a roster expected to
return almost fully intact next season have generated excitement among players and many fans. Key returnees include rising junior guard
Wayne Bernard, who averaged 16 points in the three tournament games, and rising senior Emeka Erege, who returned to the
lineup on Feb. 12 after a month-long absence to help Davidson to three straight wins, including two over College of
Charleston, the top-ranked team in the South Division. On the recruiting front, only Eric Blancett, a 6-5, 175-pound forward from
St. Louis, has given a solid commitment. The team is still actively recruiting several other players.

Sophomore Becca McDevitt drives past a Richmond defender last Saturday at Richardson Stadium.

Wildcat defense secures win

By TYLER REED
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team earned a hard-fought win against Richmond on Saturday. Goals from team leaders and tough defense down the
stretch proved just enough to top the Spiders by a score of 10-9.

The Wildcats (5-8) rushed out to a 3-1 lead early in the first half with goals from seniors Lauren Kenchington
and Steph Hunter, and junior Sarah Otto. Keeping even with the Spiders for the remainder of the opening period, the
women reached halftime with a 6-4 lead. Kenchington scored her 29th goal of the season to extend the Wildcats’ lead
to three goals early in the second half. The teams traded brief spurts of goals, and with 14:34 left in
the contest, the Wildcats held a 10-6 advantage. Just as they have done in previous close games this year, the
Davidson defense came on strong in the closing minutes to preserve the win.

After the Spiders (0-9) scored three goals to cut the lead to one with 3:20 remaining, the Wildcats’ defense was
able to hold possession for the remainder of the game, denying Richmond an opportunity to send the game into overtime.
In the end, the women put together one of their finest performances of the year. Kenchington called the team’s performance
“amazing,” and said, “Everybody played well.”

The women are no strangers to close contests with Richmond. Kenchington vividly recalls when, two years earlier, Davidson was able
to erase a Richmond lead and send the tense game to overtime. In her sophomore year in 1999, Stephanie Hunter
was the team’s hero, scoring the game-winning goal in the second overtime period. Last year, Richmond held off a late
Wildcat charge to win 12-8. Perhaps a budding rivalry between the two lacrosse programs will spark more close contests in
the future.
