Fowler gives lecture on UR Center for Politics

NOVEMBER 1, 2001

Former Ambassador to Saudi Arabia offers perspective on September 11

By Lindy Baldwin
News Editor

After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, many American eyes turned towards the Middle East and the Islamic religion, hoping to
understand how and why Al Qaeda targeted the United States. It was with the hope of increasing this understanding that
Davidson alum W. Wyche Fowler ’62 delivered his lecture, “The Roots of Terror: Saudi Arabia and the Current Crisis,” on
Monday.

By any measurement, Fowler has led a distinguished life. The former Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Fowler was appointed in 1996
by President Clinton after the Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia, in which 19 American servicemen and many Saudi citizens
were killed. For his role in solving the bombing, Fowler was recently awarded the FBI’s highest civilian citation. Prior to
his ambassadorship, Fowler served as both a U.S. Representative and Senator during 16 years in Congress representing his home state
of Georgia. During his time in Congress, he served as a member of the energy and natural resources committee, where
he was dedicated to developing a program to research renewable energy sources and energy-efficient technologies. He was twice named “Solar
Man of the Year” for his work on energy development and conservation. Last month he was named as chair of
the board of governors of the Middle East Institute in Washington, D.C.

Fowler made himself available to the press on the afternoon of his lecture. The Charlotte Observer and two local news
channels sent representatives; Dr. Homer Sutton, the Director of the Dean Rusk Program, was also present. Bill Giduz and Meg
Kimmel from College Communications also asked questions of the Ambassador.

At both the press conference and the lecture, Fowler emphasized what he believes is a conflict within Islam itself —
between “militant” and “moderate” factions. It is this latter faction which Fowler believes the United States must support in the
Middle Eastern “war of ideas,” while appreciating that their culture and values are “important elements in the resolution of this
dispute.” The militant faction, Fowler explained, has a list of resentments and grievances against the United States. “The resentments that
the militants have are real in their limited perspective,” he commented at the press conference. “They are basically anti-modernity. For
instance, one of their resentments that we would fight to maintain in our country is our emancipation of women. They
believe women should not leave the home. They blame much of what they don’t like about modern society on the
emancipation of women.” Problems like divorce, toleration of pornography, juvenile delinquency, and sexual permissiveness are all linked to giving women
too much freedom.

“Another resentment that they have is our separation of church and state. They cannot conceive of the two being separate.
They believe as fundamentalist Muslims that there can only be one government, and that government is under Allah. Anything that
separates from the teachings of the Qu’ran is not in accord with God’s plan, including the organization of society and
governments.”

“It’s really an indictment of modern society. Osama Bin Laden has released many statements and tapes saying that he wants
to re-create a seventh-century society as it was under the Prophet Mohammed.” Fowler emphasized, however, that there is “no evidence”
that conservative Islam necessarily leads directly to terrorism. He pointed out that many of Bin Laden’s grievances have nothing to
do with the interpretation of the Qu’ran, such as the stationing of American troops on Saudi soil.

Fowler praised Bush’s leadership and the coalition he has put together in the wake of September 11. “I believe we
are going to catch Osama Bin Laden,” he stated, citing the success of the mission to capture Al Qaeda and
drive the Taliban from power. “We need to keep this coalition together as we help the Afghans form a new
government.”

The Ambassador was quick to counter the notion that all Saudis support Osama Bin Laden. “The fact that many of
the September 11 hijackers came from Saudi Arabia is more a testament to the fact that he was a Saudi,
he knew people to recruit in Saudi Arabia. We shouldn’t indict Saudi Arabia as a premier terrorist state, any more
than you can indict Oklahoma because Tim McVeigh and his crowd came from Oklahoma.” Bin Laden himself is “persona non
grata” in his home state, Fowler asserted; Saudis become upset when he is identified as a Saudi Arabian citizen because
his citizenship was...

(see Fowler, page 2)4 Outpost, party hours among issues raised at forum

Some students unsatisfied with turnout, discussion at campus-wide event

Forum, from page 1

The other main issue brought to the attention of Vagt and Shandley was one of overall student dissatisfaction with the
new Alvarez College Union. Although many students praised the new Union, others had a broad array of suggestions or criticisms
to offer. One student noted his displeasure with 21-Year-Old Night resulting from the inadequacy of the new 900 Room. He
claimed it could have more of a bar atmosphere, like that of the 900 Room in the old Grey Union.
Another student protested that the atmosphere of 21-Year-Old Night was too bar-like, its loud music allowing for limited conversation.

Another concern of both students and staff was raised over the competition that has arisen between Patterson Court and the
new Union to gain student attention. Some noted a difficulty in bringing students who “typically” socialize at the Court and
those who “typically” socialize at Union events together in engaging activities. Some claimed that the two areas of campus should
not have to compete for student involvement. Many wished that the Union was more of a social center. One student
noted that some students simply will never come to the Union “in full force.” Others, however, were quick to point
out the fact that this year the Union has had more people in attendance than ever.

The final issue discussed was the continued deliberation over the party hours for the Court on weeknights. Many expressed their
dissatisfaction over what they felt were limitations on when to socialize. One concerned student questioned the necessity of the nighttime
limits, pointing out that Davidson students consistently do well in the classroom despite late-night partying. Relating to this problem was
the question of noise complaints. Many houses on Patterson Court routinely receive complaints for loud music, but rarely know the
callers. One student said those disturbed by noise coming from a house should call the house directly to ask members
to turn down the music rather than inform the authorities.

Other topics brought up at the forum included problems with relations between Campus Police and students, needed emphasis of the
Code of Responsibility relating to the Court, the need for a better relationship between faculty members and Patterson Court, and
the absence of sororities.

Vagt interrupted the open forum midway through to suggest that students needed to think more broadly in the issues they
raised. He wanted to know what new things students would like to see happen, or specific ways to bridge the
gap between the Court and the Union. Suggestions ranged from holding events at locations away from the Court and Union
(such as the lake campus), to supplying free beer in the Union, to providing more computers, TVs, ping-pong tables, and
sitting areas. Vagt emphasized community, noting that “anything good must come from us” and that we as an institution need
to “talk to each other and figure out what to get done by being active in participation. We respect the
court, houses should attempt to invite teachers to more non-alcoholic events.” He suggested that student-faculty social interaction is difficult given
the fact that teachers, as employees of the school, are responsible to report intolerable activity from students.

Vagt ended the forum by thanking all those in attendance. Afterwards, students expressed mixed reactions to the event. “I think
this forum was a great start for the students to express their opinions and ideas for social life at Davidson
either on the court, at the Union, or elsewhere,” noted Robert Kock ‘04. “It will be interesting to see where
we take all of these ideas and how effective we can be as a student body.”

“Regardless of how much the Union costs, some things must change and the Union cannot be all things to all
people seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day,” said Kevin Eppes ‘03. Union Board president Will Parker echoed many
students’ overall dissatisfaction with the results of the forum. “The forum was big on complaints, and not so big on
constructive ideas for improving things. In a sense, I was disappointed. I was really hoping to hear some neat, new
idea for the Union Board or another group to take away from the forum, but that hope went largely unfulfilled,”
explained Parker.
