Men’s Soccer Struggles ~ By RICHARD CONNOLLY and Liz Gross, Staff Writers

Every great team must overcome adversity. The men’s soccer team will need to rediscover the form that got it off
to a 5-1 start if they want to be playing in late November. Over the last four games, the squad
has posted an unimpressive 1-3 record, falling out of both national and regional rankings.

Playing its first home game in over two weeks, Davidson came out firing against conference foe Appalachian State on October
9. Senior Erik Ozimek gave the ‘Cats a 1-0 lead when he ripped a 7th-minute shot into the net from
25 yards out off a pass from sophomore Justin Porter. That score remained until the 72nd minute, when senior Chris
Norbet sliced his way through the Mountaineers' defense and fired a shot to the back of the net for his
13th goal of the season. Junior Soren Johnson recorded three saves and earned his third shutout of the season as
Davidson improved to 8-3 overall and 3-0 in the Southern Conference.

“I think we had a good showing against a strong conference opponent tonight,” noted Coach Matt Spear. “We were able
to control the play this evening and once again Norbet stepped up for us. Ozimek’s score in the first half
was another highlight-worthy goal.”

The ’Cats hit the road again with an October 13 trip to Lexington, Virginia, where they hoped to continue their
conference success against the VMI Keydets. VMI had not beaten Davidson since 1982, and Davidson was riding a nine-game winning
streak against the military schools. The teams went into halftime tied at zero, but the Keydets took the lead in
the 50th minute and scored what was, ultimately, the game winner. The Wildcats, despite a 10-7 shot advantage, were held
scoreless for only the second time all season as VMI keeper John Simmons earned his third shutout of the season.

Although the team maintained a spot in the South Region rankings in spite of the VMI loss, Davidson knew it
would be the underdog against a powerful Wake Forest team on October 17. The Demon Deacons, ranked 19th in the
country, were on a six-game winning streak entering the contest and were in the middle of an eight-game home stand.
Freshman goaltender Bart Creasman made four saves in the first half and, despite the Demon Deacons’ 10-3 shot advantage, the
teams went into halftime knotted at zero. In the 52nd minute, however, Norbet took a pass from Ozimek and volleyed
a shot beyond the grasp of the Deacons’ keeper to give the ’Cats a one-goal lead. The Deacons answered in
the 76th minute and then scored the game winner only seven minutes later to thwart an upset and ensure the
2-1 victory.

“This was a great opportunity to knock off a ranked ACC team on the road,” Spear stated. “We played very
well and we were able to establish some confidence early. I felt like we need to believe we can win
against those teams and not just compete.”

The ’Cats continued their road trip against the 11th-ranked Clemson Tigers, an October 21 game that Davidson had hoped would
end its three-game losing streak. Coming into the game, the Wildcats had yet to defeat a ranked opponent this season.
Davidson’s chance at victory was further diminished in the third minute of the game, when goaltender Johnson received a red
card for taking down a Tiger forward in the box. Clemson capitalized and took control of the game, scoring five
more times to win 6-1, as the Wildcats played with only 10 men. Freshman goalie Bart Creasman played the final
87 minutes and recorded eight saves as Davidson was out-shot 26-5 by the Tigers. The ’Cats’ lone goal was scored
in the 38th minute when Joel Sadler nabbed his second of the season. Davidson will return to action on October
30 when the College of Charleston Cougars come to town for a Southern Conference match-up.

These are dark days for Davidson field hockey. Despite intense effort and several overtime matches, the Wildcats are suffering a
ten-game losing streak and have gone winless in six games of conference competition.

On October 10, Davidson faced Northern Pacific rival Radford University. The ’Cats forced the scoreless game into overtime. Radford’s Megan
Driest found the back of the net off of a penalty corner with 5:32 left, handing Davidson their third overtime
loss this season.

Next on Davidson’s schedule was an October 15 visit to Appalachian State University. Mountaineer Krista Hahn scored the first goal
of the match with 30:26 left in the first half, and was matched by teammate Jessica Burkhardt, who scored at
the 12-minute mark, extending ASU’s lead to 2-0. The ’Cats rallied after the half as sophomore Kathleen Fenn scored with
an assist from Courtney Hughes. A minute later, Davidson struck again as Jessica Barton found the net on a penalty
stroke, forcing the 2-2 tie. ASU countered with two more goals with 11:45 and 6:49 left in the game. Fenn
held the final hope for Davidson as she scored with an assist from Amanda Strickland on a penalty corner in
the final seconds of the game. The 4-3 defeat was Davidson’s second loss to conference member ASU this season.

The Wildcats’ last home game was Saturday, October 20, against No. 7 William and Mary University. Within ten minutes, Kristen
Southerland had scored the first goal for the W&M Tribe. Davidson answered with a breakaway goal by Agnes Bateman off
a pass from Kathleen Fenn. The first half ended tied at one, but William and Mary clinched the 3-1 win
with two goals in the second half. Freshman goalie Cate Schenning registered 14 saves in the match.

Last Sunday, the ’Cats once again faced Radford University. The Highlanders jumped out to the lead with a goal from
Tessa Brooks at25:34 in the first half. Radford scored again less than a minute later and clinched the win with
a third goal at 22:07 in the second half, handing Davidson the decisive 3-0 loss. The Wildcats outshot the Highlanders
12 to 8. Goalkeepers senior Amanda Mordavsky and freshman Sarah Nolan split the game, tallying one save apiece. Davidson will
look to break its losing streak against Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, NC. Game time is 7:00 pm on Thursday,
October 25.

Football falls to Hoyas, beats Yellow Jackets
By Jackie Davidson
Staff Writer

Davidson’s football team split their last two games, an October 13 match at Georgetown and an October 20 nail-biter at
Randolph-Macon. Trailing the Georgetown Hoyas (2-3) with minutes left in the game, the Davidson Wildcats (2-3) were undoubtedly experiencing déjà
vu. Two years ago, they found themselves in a similar situation until Paul Nichols led the Cat offense down the
field for the go-ahead TD, lifting the Wildcats past the Hoyas, 28-27. History, however, did not repeat itself. This time,
the Hoyas were able to preserve the victory, intercepting Davidson’s 2-point conversion attempt in the final 52 seconds of the
game to defeat the ’Cats 26-24.

The game began slowly offensively as both teams could only manage one field goal each by the end of the
first period. In the second quarter, Georgetown reached into their bag of tricks to score the game’s first touchdown. David
Palus, punting for the Hoyas, took a fourth down snap intending to boot the ball away. Daunted by the ’Cats’
defensive pressure, he instead started running. He stopped in the end zone on a 53-yard score, the longest run by
a Hoya this season. The extra point and a subsequent field goal gave the Hoyas a 13-3 halftime lead.

At the start of the second half, Davidson came out firing. First, Chris Costello connected on a 41-yard field goal
to pull the 'Cats to within a touchdown. On the next possession, the ’Cats embarked on an 8-play, 74-yard scoring
drive, capped by a nine-yard run by freshman John Leverett. The extra point was blocked, allowing Georgetown to maintain a
13-12 lead. The Hoyas quickly struck back as Sean Peterson threw a 65-yard touchdown pass to Kurt Bennett, widening the
Hoya lead to eight. On the ensuing kickoff, senior Ward Gibson returned the ball 63 yards to the Hoya 23.
A few plays later, Nichols scored on a 1-yard touchdown run. Looking to tie the game, Davidson attempted a two-point
conversion, but Leverett was stopped short of the goal line.

With 3:04 left to play and the Wildcats down 26-18, the Davidson offense marched 65 yards down the field for
what could have been the game-tying possession. On the drive, Gibson accounted for 30 yards on three receptions and rushed
for a six-yard TD to pull the ’Cats within two. But on the Wildcats' 2-point conversion attempt, the Hoyas’ Eric
Speron intercepted Nichols, all but sealing the Georgetown victory. In the end, Hoya Marc Samuel accounted for the difference. The
graduate student posted more than half of Georgetown’s points, connecting on four field goals and two extra points. For the
Wildcats, Nichols went 22-for-35 for 230 yards while Barrett Johnson tallied 78 yards on 8 catches.

Davidson finished its five-game road trip this past Saturday at Randolph-Macon. Faced with the possibility of losing their third straight
game, the Wildcats rallied in overtime to defeat the Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets (4-3), 27-24. Quarterback Nichols lunged into the end
zone from inside the Randolph-Macon one-yard line to score the game-winning touchdown and hand the ’Cats their third win of
the season. Though the Yellow Jackets would convert on a 24-yard field goal to take a brief 24-21 lead, the
overtime period belonged to the Wildcats. The Wildcats immediately gained ground from the 25-yard line starting point as Nichols hit
sophomore Johnson for a 14-yard gain. From there, Leverett took over, rushing twice to get the ball inside the one-yard
line. Besides setting up Nichols’ game-winning TD, Leverett was also involved in one of the stranger and more spectacular plays
of the afternoon. On a kickoff return, Leverett fielded the ball two yards deep in the end zone. He started
to return the kick, only to stop just beyond the goal line. Realizing that he had to keep going, Leverett
found a hole in the middle of Yellow Jacket coverage and went the distance, setting a school record with a
100-yard return.

DAVIDSON VS. HAMPDEN SYDNEY
Saturday, 1 p.m. at Richardson Stadium

The Wildcats return home for the first time in nearly two months on Saturday to host Hampden Sydney. It’s been
a strange season, to say the least. The team opened the year with a convincing 24-7 victory over Valparaiso to
extend its winning streak to 18 games, tops in the nation at the time. One week later, the streak ended
with a thud in a startling 45-3 loss at Jacksonville. The terrorist attacks occurred three days after that, and the
Homecoming game against Drake, one of only four home games, was postponed. No make-up date has been set. Four straight
road games later, the team is 3-3 (0-2 Pioneer), with victories over Div. III teams Emory & Henry and Randolph-Macon,
and tough losses to Morehead State and Georgetown. Both games were decided in the final minutes. That brings us to
Saturday’s match-up against Hampden Sydney. The Div. I Tigers improved to 3-4 overall, 2-3 in the ODAC, with a 34-20
victory over Emory & Henry on October 6. The Tigers lost 34-20 on October 6, while Davidson won 23-6 on
September 22. The numbers suggest an easy victory for the Wildcats, but the way this season is going, nothing seems
possible.

—Matt Garfel
