DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2001

Campus copes with the aftermath of terrorism
By Caroline Hauser
Sports Editor

As the nation struggled to reconstruct and reconnect after last Tuesday’s terrorist attacks, Davidson scrambled to locate scattered students, faculty,
staff, and alumni around the world.

New York & Washington
College president Bobby Vagt described the effort to account for Davidson community members, saying, “Alumni have formed a remarkable network,
starting Tuesday afternoon with e-mails between people in New York and people in Washington.” At least one Davidson graduate was
in a World Trade Center elevator, between the first and second floors of Tower No. 2. Immediately after the first
plane crash, she was evacuated.

Steve Isenberg, last spring’s Batten Professor and former publisher of New York’s Newsday, lives in Manhattan. On Wednesday, he described
the scene via telephone. “The family of New York is really deeply shaken,” he said. “Two perfectly beautiful days in
a row and then, four miles south of our house...there’s this devastation you’ve seen over and over again. But it’s
all very quiet.”

“If you look out our window, it’s like a cloud dropped,” he said. “The winds have shifted; acrid smoke is
blowing four miles away. Bad start to a new century.”

In Washington, DC, at least two Davidson alumni, Ken Krieg ‘83 and General Counsel for the Department of Defense Jim
Haynes ‘80, work in the Pentagon with Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. Both were taken to safety with the secretary.

Overseas
There are currently 128 Davidson students studying abroad; 108 of those are on non-Davidson programs. The two current Davidson programs
are in France and Germany. Dr. Maggie McCarthy, associate professor of German and resident director of Davidson’s junior year abroad
program in Wurzburg, contacted The Davidsonian via e-mail. On the general atmosphere in Germany, McCarthy reported, “On Tuesday, German chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder called the terrorist attacks an attack on the entire civilized world and pledged Germany’s unlimited solidarity. Everywhere, flags
are at half-mast and church services are being held. Soccer games have been cancelled, and whether or not Oktoberfest will
take place remains up in the air.”

More specifically relating to Davidson, McCarthy explained the program’s current situation. A Wurzburg newspaper interviewed Davidson student Blake Rice ’03,
detailing his efforts to contact home. After several tries, Rice reached his mother, a State Department employee who was evacuated
during the attacks.

“When I met with [the Davidson students] on Wednesday evening,” wrote McCarthy, “they talked of how touched they were by
uniform expressions of sympathy from their classmates. At the same time, I think everyone is feeling the need to be
in as close contact as possible with families and loved ones. It’s a very difficult moment to be abroad.”

Carolyn Ortmayer, program coordinator for Davidson’s Office of Study Abroad, expressed cautious confidence concerning the safety of students currently overseas,
noting the uncertainty of the national response. She did send an e-mail to students overseas, detailing the worldwide caution issued
by the State Department last Wednesday, which includes the warning that “U.S. citizens and interests abroad may be at increased
risk of terrorist actions from extremist groups,” and advises Americans to “maintain a high level of vigilance and to increase
their security awareness...[and] maintain a low profile” in the coming months.

Tere Grinstead ‘03 and Caroline Bennett ‘03 heard the news in a Florence café. Via e-mail, Grinstead reported, “We went
inside a...

see Overseas, page 3

Students gathered in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room to watch President Bush’s address to the nation on the evening
of September 11.

Letter-writing campaign ignites campus debate on U.S.’s next step
Emily Drew
Staff Writer

In the aftermath of the worst terrorist attack in American history, signs posted around campus read: “Justice Not Revenge.” Davidson
students took turns manning tables near Chambers Building and the library, where passersby signed their names to pre-written letters addressed
to American leaders. At the table near Chambers, a student...opposed to the letter-writing approached the table and tore one of
the letters into small pieces. Another student said loudly, “They could at least not do this right beneath the American
flag.” Although U.S. citizens are shocked by the events of Sept. 11, they are deeply divided in their opinions of
the event itself and how the government should respond. The main dissension revolves around the future and what the U.S.
should do next. A few sentiments: “Bomb Palestine.” “Set up peace talks. Try to understand different perspectives.” “Plan a strategic
attack...after we figure out who we’re attacking.” “I don’t know. I’m really confused.” Jeremy Campbell ’02 didn’t know what should
be done between states and nations, but he felt that Davidson’s community should simply try to address the events in
a peaceful way. Consequently, Campbell, Arthur Gillett ‘03, Louis Becker ‘04, and Beth Gardner ‘03 developed the letter-writing campaign, an
effort that sent 420 letters to congressmen and the president after the first 24 hours of participation. The group of
pacifists has worked to spread their message in other ways, too, by sending letters to other campuses. The letters, signed
“In the interest of humanity,” encourage leaders to “seek to understand the sources of hatred so that we might not
duplicate these horrors.” When the campaign began on September 13, Campbell and other participants expected opposition to arise, but even
conflict, he says, can be constructive. “The important thing is that people are communicating and talking and listening to each
other,” he said. The “doves,” as the peace activists are being dubbed, have been accused by some of being naive,
idealistic and insulting to American pride. “The chances of the letters being read is highly unlikely, so it’s kind of
a waste of time,” said one student who supports military action against terrorists. Campbell himself said that the letter-writing campaign
was a way to promote dialogue and understanding.

U.S. News college rankings arrive
Davidson makes top 10, but do the rankings mean anything?
By Colin EAGAN
News Editor

It’s official. Davidson now ranks among the top ten liberal arts colleges in the nation, according to the September 6
issue of US News and World Report magazine, which contains the eagerly awaited rankings of America’s best colleges and universities.
The annual rankings, now so familiar to those in college and those aspiring to be, calculate complicated formulas involving numerous
criteria to determine which schools provide the very “best” education. In light of the recent report, many Davidson officials are
asking if it is in fact possible to quantify academic excellence. The annual US News college rankings, also found at
usnews.com, are based on several key measures of college quality that fall into seven differently weighted categories. These include academic
reputation, retention, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources, alumni giving, and graduation rate performance. Through a series of complex calculations,
US News quantifies colleges’ performance in each of these categories, and assigns each school an absolute rank among its counterparts
in a given category (Davidson is grouped under “liberal arts colleges” and only compared to other schools of this nature).
The methodology involved in assigning rank to schools has drawn questions and criticism since US News began publishing results in
1983. “The algorithm used by US News is very complex, and one that no one has been able to successfully
reverse engineer,” said Linda LeFauve, Director of Planning and Institutional Research, who has compiled a report analyzing Davidson’s performance.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-5
Twelve Davidson students were cited by the Town of Davidson for underage consumption of alcohol, and one senior was arrested
for disorderly conduct at an off-campus party the weekend of August 17-19.

Arts & Living 6-7
The Deep End offers cheap thrills but not so deep after all, says reviewer Derek H.

Perspectives 8-10
Students voice their opinions about how the U.S. should respond to last Tuesday’s attacks.

Sports 11-12
Men’s soccer tops Radford 4-1 to improve record to 4-1, its best start since 1990.
