By Martha Hunt
Arts & Living Editor

Hi everyone. Studies got you down? Join the club. I don’t think I can possibly write one more thesis statement or document one more source. As a matter of fact, I'm drawing a blank on what to say even here. I’m struggling to write even one cohesive sentence. Thankfully, summer is fast approaching - but then, I don’t like to think about that either, since I have so much work to get done before it arrives. I wonder if the number of applicants to insane asylums skyrockets around now... I wouldn’t be surprised if the Counseling Center suddenly had a surge of crazed students.

Despite the overload of papers, projects, research, and more papers, I still found time to interview a most intriguing student. Carlos-Andres Lacayo is a hall counselor on 2nd Belk, and I received a special request a few weeks ago to put him on the list of interviewees. Not one to refuse popular demand, I knocked on his door on Saturday afternoon. Our appointment was for 1 PM and I was on the dot. I heard a bit of commotion within his room and then the door started rattling. It kept thumping and it looked like someone was fighting with the doorknob.

“Carlos?” I said. “Are you all right?”

“Martha! I cannot get the door open!” The door rattled even more and I burst out laughing. Carlos’ muffled voice was frustrated: “I can’t believe this! I can’t get this thing open!”

I tried to control my amusement, since there was obviously a definite problem. “What can I do?” I shouted.

“Look for a penny in the doorframe!” He kept attacking the door from inside.

“A penny?” I thought. “What the heck?” But I looked anyway.

“Nothing here!” I announced. “I could just interview you through the door,” I suggested.

The fight with the door subsided, and I heard a big sigh. “All right,” he said, “here. I'll give you the key.” Carlos slid it under the impenetrable gate, and I unlocked his door from the outside. It swung open and I saw a very flustered Carlos on the other side.

“If I didn’t know any better, I’d say you planned it that way,” I laughed.

“This has never happened before. I am so sorry. I don’t know what’s wrong with the doorknob. It must be something mechanical.”

“Don’t worry about it. I think it’s funny. So how are you?”

Carlos-Andres Lacayo: Well.

Me: How’s the semester going?

CAL: All right. I had a hard time at the beginning because I wasn’t focusing as well. It’s going much better now.

MH: What are you planning to do this summer?

CAL: I'll be doing a 10-week financial internship in New York City.

MH: Have you gotten locked in your room before?

CAL: When I was a freshman I won an award with my roommate - “The Golden Key Award” - because we got locked out of our room so many times. Today is the first time I’ve been locked in.

Carlos Andres Lacayo ‘02

MH: I see that you have Star Wars paraphernalia all over the place. I take it you’re a fan?

CAL: Oh yes, a very big Star Wars fan. The whole prequel - I was really pumped about it. I was so pumped that my little brother and I went to see it at midnight in Nicaragua. We were dead tired after the movie was over but we were very enthused - we’re both Star Wars fans.

MH: What are you majoring in?

CAL: Economics, and a minor in French. I took three years of it (French) in high school. It’s something I really like. I went to Tours in high school, for a month. It was an incredible experience. I stayed with a family of teachers in Azay-le-Rideau, outside Tours. Very ‘French countryside’. They had their plot of land, and they’d till it every summer. Wonderful people.

MH: It seems like you are really interested in politics and international affairs.

CAL: I like to know what’s going on in the world. I like politics, business, and international affairs. I have to read the newspaper every time I wake up. It’s one of my favorite things to do.

MH: So what do you think of the Davidson International Student Association?

CAL: I’m a member. The President is my best friend. We went to school together in Costa Rica and ended up here at Davidson together. It’s fairly amazing for that to happen. I knew he had applied but I didn’t know he was going to accept... I think the Association has grown a lot in the past year. I’m waiting to see what President Vagt decides on their bid for the Outpost. Whatever Bobby decides, if he thinks it’s going to compete with the new Union, I don’t think that’s something he should worry about. They’ve lobbied very hard for a house for a while now. This is nothing new for DIA.

MH: Where is home for you?

CAL: My parents live in Nicaragua. I grew up in San Jose, Costa Rica.

MH: How did you end up at Davidson?

CAL: I knew I wanted to go to a liberal arts college. Davidson was at a college fair in my school and I knew it was strong academically. I also liked Davidson’s commitment to service and the honor code. The people here are great. I came blind - I never visited. I had been to Miami and Houston. Davidson was the first time I really stayed in the US.

MH: What kinds of challenges have you faced as an international student?

CAL: I spoke very formal English in high school. I think I had a fairly proficient level, but I wasn’t good with the slang terms. There were certain things I couldn’t describe because I didn’t know the name for them. I was very far away from home. I missed my family, especially my twin brother, Marco, the first time we were separated. Being twins, we always did things together. So that was a challenge for me. There was also this huge difference in culture. I think people in Latin America are much more physically close in a social environment. I see a girl, and I give her a kiss on the cheek. I shake hands with guys. Here you only shake hands once. That was a challenge at first. There’s personal space in America that you need to be aware of.

MH: When you were little, what did you dream of becoming?

CAL: I come from a family of doctors, so I thought I was going to be a pediatric surgeon. For a while that was my career aspiration. But because of my trip to France, and my interest in other parts of the world, I decided not to go to med school. I would have stayed in Costa Rica and not come to the US at all.

MH: Why did you become a hall counselor?

CAL: I was an RA as a sophomore, and I greatly enjoyed the experience. I felt that I grew a lot because of the job; I was a lot more laid-back. I wantedTo be a hall counselor so I could hang out with freshman students. I thought it might be a very challenging experience. Second East is very unique, because we have very liberal and very conservative students. It’s quite interesting... 42 guys - that’s a lot.

MH: What’s the funniest or weirdest moment you’ve had since being on the hall?

CAL: I think getting locked into my room tops the list. It’s never happened to me, unless it’s a prank. This was a mechanical malfunction of the doorknob. It wasn’t working properly. It is now. You had to let me out. You played a “key” role... What else? Ah! One of the funniest stories was from before the freshmen got here. I was in my room, and Carey and Nicole (2nd West hall counselors) came to look for me. They were telling me about this noise, in the second West window. It was this thumping, and they didn’t know what it was, and they were really scared. I went to check it out, and I was scared too. They were expecting me to do something, and I said, “Hey, guys can get scared too.” So we were all scared together. It turned out that Adam (2nd East hall counselor) was throwing clumps of grass at the window because he had forgotten his catcard. It was hilarious.

MH: What do you want to do when you graduate?

CAL: I’d like to get a job in the financial sector, in New York or Charlotte. I’m thinking investment banking, or sales and trading. I'll do that for a while, and then go to grad school.

MH: Where do you see yourself in 10 years?

CAL: I think in 10 years, I might still be working in the US, and seriously considering moving back to Nicaragua. I’ll probably travel to other countries - working in London or France would be wonderful. My cousin works in London, and he’s having a great time. It’s a different kind of city, but it’s really cool.

MH: What is your take on the Patterson Court scene?

CAL: Hmmm. I usually don’t go down to Patterson Court. I do occasionally, but I generally don’t go down. For some people I understand, they really like it. I’m not that enthusiastic about it. I’m in Fiji and I know people from other fraternities, and they’re great. I like to go out to Cornelius and Huntersville or Charlotte. Or go to the apartments and hang out with friends.

MH: What’s the best book you’ve ever read?

CAL: I’ve read a couple of great books. I really enjoyed Flaubert’s Madame Bovary. I read it in French, which made it a lot better. That’s for the novel. For short stories, I think my favorite collection is Borges’ El Aleph. For the play, Shakespeare’s Hamlet. I go back to it every once in a while.

MH: What is your favorite music to listen to?

CAL: In the past, a lot of heavy metal and alternative rock. Now I’ve diversified. Salsa, Latin rock, bands like “Mana”, Shakira... Korn, Pearl Jam, Metallica, U2, The Cranberries. A lot of stuff.

MH: If you could travel anywhere in the world, where would you go?

CAL: I would definitely consider going back to France. I'd love traveling all over - from Paris to Nice, just all over France. I’d love to do that. I’d like to go to Israel sometime - at least once in my life... you know, go to the “Holy Land”.

MH: What aggravates you the most?

CAL: I hate washing my hands with my watch on, because my wrist gets wet. That’s a very superficial pet peeve. It also aggravates me when I lose my sense of focus and direction in life... being out-of-control, just reacting and not taking initiative. Sometimes I lose focus. My hope is that my values are taking me in the right direction.

MH: And what would some of those values be?

CAL: I was raised Catholic, so I believe in Jesus and God, and that certainly drives me. My family drives me, plus hard work. Being bold, tenacious, and perseverant. It’s so easy to give up, on everything, just because a couple of things go wrong. I think if you’re strong enough, you can look back at your past mistakes constructively, and the lessons you learn from them will help move you forward with a better sense of direction and purpose.

MH: How do you act when you’re angry?

CAL: I don’t know. It all depends. Sometimes I get reclusive, sometimes I raise my voice. That depends on what gets me angry.

MH: Who influences you?

CAL: My grandfather and grandmother passed away when I was a sophomore here. They were a great influence in my life. I was very close to them. I learned a lot from them. My parents too. My twin brother, Marco. My best friend Charlie is a very important influence. I’m sure there are others, but they don’t jump out like the others do.

MH: What do you like to do for fun?

CAL: I like to read. I kind of do that automatically. I wake up and turn on my computer and read the news. I like that very much. I like going out with my friends, eating dinner, dancing... I'd say hanging out with my family, but they’re not here. But I really enjoy that. I have a sister, a twin brother, and a little brother. I’m close to all of them. They’re awesome. I’m really close to my whole family. My siblings are a lot of fun to hang out with. I have a strong bond with Marco, because he’s my twin.

MH: What’s the dumbest thing you’ve ever done?

CAL: I’ve done a lot of dumb things. But I think it’s all the stupid things you do, without noticing. I can’t think of “a” dumbest thing. It doesn’t come to mind that readily. I'll have to think about that one.

MH: Who’s your favorite cartoon character?

CAL: I was a big fan of Wolverine for a while. Now I really like the Powerpuff Girls. I think they’re really cool. And Charlie Brown. The Peanuts characters I really like.

MH: Tell me a little-known fact about yourself.

CAL: Every once in a while I go to Hobart Park and read Borges’ short stories. I think that’s something that very few people know about.

MH: Well, here’s the last question that I always ask everyone. It’s sort of a mini-survey that I’m doing. Remember, the Honor Code still applies here: do you read the Davidsonian?

CAL: (laughs) Every once in a while I read it. That’s it. I can’t tell you that I’m a die-hard reader and that I pick it up hot off the press and read it. But I do read it. At least look over it.

MH: Thanks. As long as you read it occasionally... hey, Carlos, this has been great. Thanks for letting me interview you.

CAL: I’ve really enjoyed it. Your questions were great - you’ve started me thinking about a lot of different things!