RTS Sc LIVING was closed — live Davidsonians examine their soft underbellies. The Arts and Living section welcomes Lauren Lanza, Sarah Tyndall, and Kayleen Hartman. We hope the three female Davidsonians will be featured weekly in the section, offering insights into issues of sex and the School. They hope not to raise controversy, but to stimulate conversation and thought. For their first article, the women discuss self-stimulation and all the attached stigma. So here it is, ladies and gentlemen. Enjoy.

“If you want something done right, do it yourself,” says sexual guru and Waffle House chef Chris, waxing philosophical on the topic of self-stimulation. Chris was an eager interviewee as soon as he realized that yes, we are three female college students and yes, we masturbate. All right, so what’s the big turn on? On a campus as sexually repressed as Davidson is, it’s impossible to imagine an entire female population not taking matters into their own hands. We like it, we want it, and most of us at 18+ have figured out how to give it to ourselves.

“Ladies, DO try this at home,” says sex columnist Sarah. Although her attempts have produced only mediocre results thus far, she’s in dogged pursuit of the Holy Grail. Her two compadres, Lauren and Kayleen, emphatically encourage her, and while we’re at it, all of our fellow female Davidsonians, to keep at it. You'll be pleasantly surprised at what an excellent little study break it can make. It rivals a good back massage or a cup of green tea for stress relief. I mean, after all, it seems to us that on this campus everyone at some time or another has expressed the wish to truly “find themselves.” And what better place to start than underneath the zipper of your favorite pair of J.Crew chinos.

We talk about becoming self-sufficient, yet the majority of women are hesitant to attempt (or perhaps just to admit that they attempt) the ultimate method of self-stimulation. An expression of solo sexuality is a powerful statement. It’s sex for us, by us. This can be somewhat intimidating. Sometimes these three coeds wonder if this idea of education and the cultivation of our minds may sometimes crush the notion of educated, intelligent women as sexual beings. Which seems to us a little illogical; we put forth the contention that not only is solo exploration an acceptable part of the process of self-discovery, it is a VITAL part of it. This is not to say, ladies, that you will only receive your diploma at the end of four years if you’ve spent at least one night in bed with yourself, although if we had our way, it would be heavily under consideration.

Please don’t mistake us for militant feminist types attempting to assert that the dexterous handiwork of a man is obsolete. There’s nothing like a good roll in the hay with the partner of your choice. But when the willing and able are in short supply (as it turns out they too often are), a woman owes it to herself to be prepared. So come on all you assertive, empowered modern chicks. In lieu of Epsom salts and a cozy aroma therapy candle, next time you need a relaxing evening at home, put the “Do Not Disturb” sign on the door, turn on some delicious music, close your eyes and rock your own world.

We would like to take this time to address all our male readers. What do you think? It has come to our attention that there is a widespread male fascination with female masturbation. We’re wondering if it’s possible that guys just want to watch girls get themselves off so they can find the answer to that ever-elusive question: “Where the hell is the clitoris exactly?” (and for those of you who don’t know, it’s not a myth).

Union takes suggestions for spring concerts
By Liz Smith
Special Contributor

A few weeks ago the Union Board Concert Committee distributed suggestion boxes throughout the union café in an effort to elicit ideas for bands to bring to campus for subsequent semesters. Each box came equipped with a brainstorming list formulated by the concert committee meant to be a catalyst for response. While the boxes fell victim to some stuffing, the results represent a diversity of tastes.

As mentioned on each box, a significant portion of your student activity fees go towards concert and other programming on campus. In order to provide quality programming that attracts many groups on campus, we would like your feedback. This method is an extension of that which was discussed at the Social Life Forum held in the Smith room on the fourteenth of November. In an effort to clarify and solidify the results, a selection of the results is reprinted below for your perusal. Please direct any response to the list to Liz Smith, concert committee chair for the union board (ezsmith@davidson.edu).

Dave Matthews Band — 43 responses
Ben Harper — 38
Outkast — 34
Dispatch — 32
Weezer — 29
Jill Scott — 25
David Gray — 23
The Roots — 23
Jimmy Buffett — 21
Alicia Keys — 20
OAR — 19
Barenaked Ladies — 18
Guster — 17
Nelly Furtado — 16
John Mayer — 13
Ludacris — 12
Nelly — 11
Bela Fleck — 10
Bob Dylan — 10
Ginuwine — 10
Moby — 10
Busta Rhymes — 9
Pat McGee — 9
Widespread Panic — 9
Alison Krauss — 8
Eve — 8
Nickel Creek — 8
Shaggy — 8
String Cheese Incident — 8
Blues Traveler — 7
Lauryn Hill — 6
Lifehouse — 6
Robert Earl Keen — 6
Erykah Badu — 5
Ryan Adams — 5
Ziggy Marley — 5
Dru Hill — 4
Emma Gibbs Band — 4
India Arie — 4
Jimmy Eat World — 4
Jump Little Children — 4

Shallow, from page 5

This movie points out the stereotypes that politically correct people are too afraid to touch. On one level Shallow Hal is saying that it does not matter what your physical beauty is, but the movie does acknowledge our society’s obsession with it. Shallow Hal shows us the absurdity of basing relationships on looks. For example, Mauricio stops seeing a girl because she has one long toe. This may be a little extreme, but it goes to show us how silly we sometimes are. I recognize the fact that this is a movie, here for entertainment purposes, but movies do influence our lives. They give us heroes, villains, role models, and sex symbols. This movie is brave enough to bring up a taboo subject. I can see how some could applaud its efforts.Efforts at trying to raise awareness about our own preoccupation with looks. We do not realize how much we judge a book by its cover, and Shallow Hal has no problem exploiting society’s problem. This movie tries to make a sensitive topic humorous. It comes out funny and painful at the same time. I can only imagine how hurtful this movie could be if I were a woman who was struggling with weight issues, whether it be obesity or anorexia. It reinforces the idea that there is a certain standard of beauty. Rosemary does not fit the measuring stick; therefore, the only way she could be beautiful is by making her skinny and gorgeous. For Rosemary to be a marketable heroine, she needs to fit the mold our society adheres to, and yet the movie tells us we should not use such stereotypes. On the movie posters, we see the skinny Gwyneth we adore and a fat shadow. It is her idealistic body type that we find attractive. Shallow Hal makes a noble attempt at delving into a touchy subject, but it doesn’t really come close to truly embracing its message.

Doc Watson — 3
Howie Day — 3
Leftover Salmon — 3
Vertical Horizon — 3
Weekend Excursion — 3
Agents — 2
Black Eyed Peas — 2
Derek Trucks — 2
D-12 — 2
Jay Z — 2
Jurassic 5 — 2
Phil Lesh — 2
REM — 2
Shakira — 2
Spoon — 2
SR 71 — 2
Travis — 2
Wesley Willis — 2
Wilco — 2

Folds concert meets high expectations
By Katy ELWELL
Special Contributor

A crappy live show makes me lose all respect for a musician. An exciting show, on the other hand, assures them a devoted fan for life. I have been addicted to Ben Folds ever since I heard, “Battle of Who Could Care Less.” Ben Folds was doing something new and exciting with bored guitar-driven indie rock. I went out and bought Whatever and Ever Amen and the self-titled debut album. When Naked Baby Photos and The Unauthorized Biography of Reinhold Messner came out, I was hooked. Needless to say, I went to Ben Folds’ November 26th Raleigh show with sky-high expectations. Folds played all of the instruments for the recording of Rockin’ the Suburbs, his first album since the break-up of Ben Folds Five, but I hoped his live band would have an onstage chemistry comparable to that of his previous band with Darren Jesse and Robert Sledge. Luckily, I was not disappointed. Ben Folds, with Brett “Snuzz” Uzzell on guitar, bassist Millard Powers, and ex-Sheryl Crow and Dixie Chicks drummer Jim Bogios, banged out most of the tracks on Rockin’ the Suburbs, interspersed with Folds’ funny self-deprecating comments on his songs and his ability as a musician, which of course, are unfounded.

The Ritz is a fairly large place, but it was far from packed. I arrived late but was still able to push my way up to the front. The show had the feel of an intimate performance, with Folds talking to the audience as if we were just watching him jam in his living room. Folds is an excellent entertainer. He knows how to show the crowd a good time and give them just what they want. As great as Rockin’ the Suburbs is, I know I wasn’t alone in feeling a little jipped when the band left the stage without playing any of the Ben Folds Five classics. But after lots of stomping and yelling, Folds returned with “Kate,” “Song for the Dumped,” “Evaporated,” “Best Imitation of Myself,” and “Battle of Who Could Care Less,” among others. The encore lasted almost as long as the original set, with the crowd still wanting more when it finished.

Folds has definitely matured in his songwriting, and while the title track on Rockin’ the Suburbs is a fun pseudo-sellout satire of all the nu-metal bands played on the radio today, and even pokes fun at Folds himself, most of the songs lack the fun, carefree attitude of the first Ben Folds Five albums. Folds did a great job of playing his new stuff, but at a concert, who really wants to hear about serious things like a father and son struggling through their crappy lives in “Still Fighting It,” the threat of suicide in “Losing Lisa,” or a lonely woman in “Annie Waits”? I would rather hear fun songs about having a good time, which is why I enjoyed the encore more than the actual show. Few people can do anything but laugh when Folds sings about hooking up with a girl that looks like Axl Rose in “Julienne,” or a houseguest who has been saying he’s leaving tomorrow for weeks in “Steven’s Last Night in Town.” Despite Folds' transition to more somber subject matter, he still plays a mean show, and it was definitely worth the $20 I paid to get in. And I’ll expect another great show when he plays at Ziggy’s on the 13th, even if he isn’t all fun and games.