. THE Davisonian

School no longer recycling? Rumor proves unfounded

Linny BALDWIN
News Editor

It’s often said that nothing travels at the speed of gossip. That certainly seemed true last week when the rumor
that Davidson is no longer recycling swept through the campus at an almost unnatural rate.

“I heard they just leave the bins out so people think they’re recycling, but they really just throw it away
with the garbage,” said one of the many concerned students who contacted the Davidsonian.

College President Bobby Vagt was puzzled when he heard the rumor.

“I certainly hope that’s not the case,” he said, pointing out that the school budgets $22,000 for its recycling program.

“I know one load over the summer had to be thrown away because it was contaminated with non-recyclable materials. Maybe
that’s what they heard about.”

A call to Barbara Zaoinz, the Assistant Director of Building Services, sorted out the matter. “That’s news to me,” said
a startled Zaoinz.

“I personally checked the 20 recycling bins around campus and they are being used and used correctly. My staff continues
to collect recycling from all buildings.”

Zaoinz added, “We even expanded the program by placing paper bins in classrooms in an effort to capture more paper
from ending up in the trash. Last month we recycled 5,330 pounds of cardboard... double the amount of any previous
month.”

So environmentally-conscious students and visitors can rest easy — contrary to popular belief, recycling at Davidson is still alive and
well.

More renovations in the works for Chambers, pipes

Construction, from page 1

will add a door directly facing the E. H. Little Library and create more access to Richardson Plaza.

There are plans to replace much of the brick on Richardson Plaza with grass. Holthouser and his team believe that
“green is good.” They are reducing the number of diagonal walkways by four and have pledged to plant three trees
for every tree that falls or has to be removed.

When renovation is complete, Chambers will feature 97 faculty offices, 35 classrooms, three lounges and many other spaces. The project
is expected to cost around $20 million, which comes from endowments, not student tuition.

There are also plans underway to upgrade the utilities on campus. In August 2002, an electrical substation will be positioned
on campus to minimize the chance of power outages.

There are plans to build a new steam plant and install new steam pipes as the need for becomes greater
due to the increase in the size of the campus. A chilled water plant was built to centralize the air
conditioning of the college. This will greatly minimize noise pollution around campus. It will also increase the efficiency of distributing
chilled water.

Underground work is heavy as electrical and telecommunication lines, and steam and water pipes are being built. Brick pathways are
being built to replace asphalt pathways, under the logic that brick is porous and allows for water to get to
the soil underneath. The project is estimated to cost around $14 million.

Time is Running Out

Don't miss out on the best way to maximize your score on the LSAT

Davidson LSAT prep classes start October 20th.

Seats are limited

Enroll Today!

800.2Review | www.PrincetonReview.com

The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University. The LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission
Council.

You may also visit Biosphere 2 at www.bio2.edu/education * (800) 992-4603

Earth Systems Science and Astronomy programs are offered for Science and Non-science majors at Columbia University Biosphere 2 campus near
Tucson, Arizona.

FIELD TRIPS

Davidson Undergraduate Students can earn 16 or more course credits.

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY’S BIOSPHERE 2

Contact Michael Dorcas, Department of Biology at Davidson: 894-2727 or

RAINFOREST
