_ CatCard readers are now operational on many drink machines across campus. Most Pepsi and Coke machines have readers, and others will be equipped in the coming weeks. The Xerox machines in the library will soon accept CatCards as well. _

Folk singer to appear on campus
Folk singer David Lamotte will appear at 9:00 PM on February 3. The concert is sponsored by Westminster Fellowship of Davidson College Presbyterian Church and will be held in the 900 Room.

February 5
All voting will occur online; the website will be available from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM.

Artist Series: Ladysmith Black Mambazo
Grammy award-winning Ladysmith Black Mambazo will play in Love Auditorium on Tuesday, February 6 at 8:00 PM. Tickets are $15 in advance, $6 for Davidson students, and $20 at the door.

Ruddick Corp., Harris Teeter’s parent company, released reports of slower sales and reduced fourth-quarter earnings early last November. In the November 22 issue of the Charlotte Observer, developer Louis Stevens was quoted as saying that Harris Teeter might reconsider its decision if their earnings rebound.

“We still have high hopes that Harris Teeter will come back to the project,” Stevens told the Charlotte Observer.

The Stevens Company also considered finding another grocery store that could offer a facility similar to the Harris Teeter Express. The company has also considered a Winn-Dixie or Well-Spring, a natural food store found in the Raleigh area. Currently, the project remains on hold. There have not been any major signs of construction on the site since the end of last year. The Stevens Company will wait for a new tenant before restarting the project. They have not indicated a projected date for restarting construction.

Downtown Davidson continues expansion
Smith-Scott and Associates are proposing to build eleven new townhomes on South Street, across from the Exxon station. They would be adjacent to the new Town Center project at the corner of Concord and Main. The Lawrence Group was contracted to plan and design the new project. The proposal also includes the possibility of turning the project into a bed and breakfast.

At a meeting of neighbors living near the project, residents voiced concerns about trash disposal and the fear that the project may signal commercial growth down residential South Street. Brunson Russum, principal architect of the Lawrence Group, assured that this was not the case. “We understand that they don’t want commercial [properties] down South Street. In the proposal, we indicated only conditional use of a bed and breakfast, which we think is compatible with the neighborhood.”

The townhomes will be located on the corner of Main and Chairman Black Lane, which is the name for the new road connecting Lorimer Road and Main Street. The new townhomes will be planned to be compatible in style and scale with downtown Davidson. Russum also pointed out that the project was designed to blend with the Davidson atmosphere. “There are techniques to make buildings fit seamlessly into the neighborhood. This includes saving the existing trees.”

The next step for the townhome project includes an additional hearing and approval from the town board for the proposal. That meeting is set for February 13.

Town keeps moving forward
The temporary halt allows the town planning board to complete projects such as a new planning ordinance, the Open Space Planning, and the Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance. “We are planning ahead, trying to determine what the citizens want,” she added. The town is readying its infrastructure.and zoning plans for the potential of additional development, like the new suburban subdivision. Town hall will remain busy over the next few months as these new projects continue to change the Davidson landscape.

Infill Housing
Smith-Scott & Associates, Inc.
The current hiatus on the drawing of the new development

1/19/01
Disorderly Conduct
While responding to a call at Ryburn, a physical plant employee was urinated on by a subject. The employee observed the subject enter a room in Ryburn. Officers contacted the residents of the room and all of the residents denied any involvement in the incident. The following day one of the residents admitted to doing the act. This incident was forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Fight in Progress
An officer observed two subjects exchange inflammatory statements and exchange shoves on Patterson Court. One subject shoved the other to the ground and the officer intervened and separated them. Both were identified and were instructed to leave the area. This incident was forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Intoxicated Subject
Medics were dispatched to Richardson to investigate a call for medical assistance. Upon arrival, medics located an intoxicated subject and transported the subject to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center for further examination and treatment.

Intoxicated Subject
Medics responded to Sentelle to investigate a possible alcohol poisoning complaint. Upon arrival, medics located the unconscious subject and transported them to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center for further examination and treatment.

For 1/19/01-1/30/01
Damage to Property
A physical plant employee reported a broken glass door on the second floor of Richardson. The approximated cost to replace the glass door is $200. This incident is pending investigation.

Underage Consumption of Alcohol
An officer observed an underage subject in Knox that had consumed alcohol. The subject went into the bathroom to vomit. After evaluating the subject, the officer escorted the subject to their room and a friend of the subject stayed with the subject. This incident was forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

1/23/01
Larceny
Unknown person(s) removed without consent, the basketball goal from the backboard located behind the Kappa Sigma fraternity house. The total approximate value of the basketball goal is $30. This incident is pending investigation.

1/25/01
Larceny of a Bicycle
Complainant stated that she placed her black and gray unsecured mountain bicycle in front of Richardson. Upon returning, the complainant noticed that the bicycle had been removed without her consent. The approximate value of the bike is $100. This incident is pending investigation.

1/29/01
Trespassing
Officer responded to Watts to investigate a trespassing complaint. Complainants informed the officer that a subject entered their unsecured room without their permission and tied their laundry together and hung it from the room to a fire extinguisher in the hallway. This incident is pending investigation.

Recovery of Stolen Bicycle
Officer recovered a stolen bicycle that was located at the rear of the laundry building. The victim was notified regarding the recovery of the bicycle and it was returned.

1/30/01
Alcohol Policy Violation
While on patrol, an officer observed three groups of subjects drinking beer and using a ping-pong ball to play a game at the Kappa Sigma fraternity house. After further investigation, the game the subjects were playing is called “Beirut”. The officer ended the games and cleared the house. This incident was forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Alcohol Policy Violation
While on patrol, an officer observed a subject drinking from a funnel that was filled with a liquid that was later confirmed as beer. The item is known as a “beer bong” or a “funnel”. The subject was twenty-one years old and was not intoxicated. The officer confiscated the “beer bong” or “funnel” because the apparatus is illegal to use for the purpose of consuming alcoholic beverages on Patterson Court.

Compiled by Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of Public Safety/Campus Police