The new dating games: dismissals, eliminations, five wheels and cruises — By BEN TERESA WITH WARREN CHRISTIAN Special Contributor

After gorging on Thanksgiving turkey on Thursday night, I found myself staying up to watch Dismissed on MTV. At the end of the show, as is customary, the coveted girl announced her selection. She “dismissed” the blonde, poetry-reading, good boy, and she instead chose the Hummer-driving, bad boy: she needed someone who was going to be “aggressive and rude.” What is going on? I had physical reactions to this outcome. I hung my head in disgust, turned off the TV, and went to bed not wanting to wake up. That night I was emotionally eviscerated. MTV’s Dismissed left me completely drained and devoid of hope. Much like Elimidate, The Fifth Wheel, Shipmates, and Blind Date, Dismissed is basically a title bout for the most obnoxious, outgoing, promiscuous, flamboyant, arrogant, flirt-head. And I think I am addicted. (Check www.upn46.com and www.mtv.com for showtimes.)

For those who have not had the privilege of watching Dismissed, the show involves three singles, one of which wields the power to “dismiss,” basically dump and humiliate, the unlucky third contestant. In the aforementioned episode, two gentlemen (I use this term loosely) were vying for one extraordinarily attractive young woman. The boys were exact opposites. On display were the blonde-haired, poetry-reciting good boy and the dark, spiky-haired, bad boy who...

Alternative Christmas gifts By MARSHA HALL Special Contributor

Don’t know what to buy for the person in your life who has everything? Do something different this year and give a gift to someone who may have nothing. An Alternative Gift is a perfect way to give to others and make you feel good as well. Alternative Gifts are necessities and tools given to an impoverished community in various parts of the world so that the poor can make better lives for themselves and their children. Gifts include bikes for African women to take goods to market, clean water for a village in the Dominican Republic, food and a night’s shelter for a family here in the United States; there are also many more gifts to choose from.

It works like this: Someone who wants to give an Alternative Gift to, say, a family member will fill out a shopping list of things that will be given to a community, and donate money towards that project. The money will be given in the family member’s name; they will receive a card that tells about the project and the money given in their name. For example, I decide to buy an Alternative Gift for my sister. I choose the AIDS education project in Rwanda; I will donate $25 (the cost to help a church educate people about AIDS) in my sister’s name. She will get a card in the mail with details about the AIDS program and who gave the $25 in her name.

Davidson College will be having its very own Alternative Gift fair on Sunday, Dec. 2 in the Union at 2 p.m. In case you miss it the first time, there will be a table set up on Monday, Dec. 3 in the Union at 2 p.m.

Photo courtesy of www.the5thWheeltv.com

...their career, the read, well, maybe the vanity plate on his Hummer: CASTUD. The blonde boy was polite: he opened doors and wooed the lovely girl with poetry. Upon provocation, he also announced his virginity, his desire to abstain from sex until marriage. Mr. CASTUD, on the other hand, actually insulted the girl, and when asked, managed to describe himself in three words: adventurous, cocky, and... a slut. That description was offered about two minutes into the date. Of course, I must admit it is probably unreliable to base someone’s personality on a thirty-minute show, but nothing could have prepared me for the dismissal. I guess I identified with the show and the loser too much. I do not see myself ever driving a Hummer and certainly never indulging in vanity plates. However, maybe that is what MTV wants — for me to return for the next episode hoping the nice guy gets the girl. Apparently, I have no romantic future on MTV. What a surprise.

I am not thrown into chronic depression with The Fifth Wheel mainly because the witty Aisha Tyler hosts. Jabbing at her own show, she concludes every episode with the following words of wisdom: “The Fifth Wheel, where strangers become friends, friends become lovers and lovers become bitter, suicidal exes.” Something everyone who doesn’t have a 12:30 class should watch.

Elimidate is similar to Dismissed in that it follows the same elimination of potential dates. However, the dating pool is much larger: there are four suitors instead of two. Of those men who are “elimidated,” one inevitably will raise his shirt to the camera, revealing perfectly sculpted abs and...Proclaiming, “This is what you’re missing out on, baby.” Yikes. I remember one particular episode of Elimidate in which available for “elimidation” were the usual meatheads and pretty boys, but this time there was something different. A skinny bricklayer joined the fray. Immediately, I was rooting for him. After he made it past the first round, I cheered on the underdog and began to think there was hope for the world’s imperfect bodies. I realized I was only fooling myself when, after the second round, the bricklayer was mercilessly eliminated by the girl, an attractive magician’s assistant. 

Perhaps not surprisingly, there are not many episodes in which women are vying for one man. I think I have only encountered one episode of Elimidate in which this scenario took place. This episode quickly deteriorated into a who-could-put-out-more-the-fastest contest. The pursued hombre of that episode also managed to begin the date with a car wash, drenching all the t-shirt and tank-top-clad women not five minutes into the show. 

Maybe the funniest dating-show moment for me occurred on Blind Date. As the name suggests, two people are matched for a date, and the cameras come along to capture it all. On this hilarious episode, a large longhaired man halfway through the date declared that they should stop the charade and go home. He walked out of the bar and left his blind date behind.

There’s also Shipmates, hosted by dating game show veteran Mr. Chris Hardwick of Singled Out. On this extended version of Blind Date, two singles set sail for a three-day, two-night adventure cruise of lust, love, hate, or all three. Arguably the most inconsistent of the dating shows, Shipmates suffers from a raging case of gonorrhea. No, it doesn’t; STDs don’t plague Shipmates. With its one-couple format, Shipmates can be as boring as the dates themselves. But when the chemistry’s just right—or horribly wrong—Shipmates makes for a bon voyage.

I have no conclusion to elucidate my observations. I don’t know why I watch these shows; in fact, I am a little ashamed. My parents are probably reading this issue and wondering if the byline is a misprint. But I will say this: if you are over twenty-one and adventurous...

Radiohead’s I Might Be Wrong: ultimately unsatisfying
By JORDON STEELE
Staff Writer

In an industry dominated by prefab pop and hackneyed rock-rock, Radiohead spends its time giving mainstream music listeners a reason to continue living. The British innovators released the two most ambitious albums of sullenly pithy Kid A and its older, wiser brother Amnesiac, in a span of eight months. Critics responded by scratching their heads and slapping the band with the reductive label of “inexplicable genius.” New Yorker music critic Alex Ross, one journalist who resisted the temptation to typecast Radiohead, describes the Oxford-based quintet’s music as “a tricky, eclectic song waiting to happen.” This possibility of reward, dangling before us like the grapes of Tantalus, is what teases the listener. We await a cataclysm to no avail, a dejection which, perversely, fuels our listening. As Yorke says on Amnesiac’s opening track, “After years of waiting/ nothing came.”

Which is why Radiohead’s new release, I Might Be Wrong: Live Recordings, is surprisingly unsatisfying. The uncharacteristically brief set—at forty minutes, it stands as the band’s shortest album—does contain all the elements of Radiohead’s greatness. “The National Anthem” cleans out the clutter of its free-jazz version from Kid A to showcase Greenwood’s buzzing bass line and Yorke’s beat-boxing. In many ways, Yorke hasn’t performed so evocatively since the days of O.K. Computer. His vocals oscillate between squawk and falsetto on the minimalist “Idioteque” and nose-dive from wail to growl in a chugging performance of the title track. On the plaintive “Like Spinning Plates,” Yorke takes to the piano, in homage to the arena-rock ballad. However, with I Might Be Wrong, we don’t have to scavenge for beauty, as was necessary on Kid A and Amnesiac. This realization cheapens the reward.

Much of Radiohead’s live sound can be traced back to its early material, when the band wasn’t afraid of being “pigeonholed” as the best British rock group since the Beatles. The previously unreleased “True Love Waits,” with its strumming guitar rooting Yorke’s sublime tenor, holds I Might Be Wrong in the Radiohead of the past. Sadly absent from this compilation is Jonny Greenwood’s intricate technofugue, whose obfuscation always keeps the listener probing a sound with an empty center. I Might Be Wrong gives the fans what they want and deserve: Thom Yorke unbound. However, this holiday gift comes at the price of removing much of the wonder from a band who, for the last two years, has kept us befuddled, frustrated, and perpetually delighted.