By Koury N. Ashoou
Guadalajara, México

When the left perceives any hint of hypocrisy coming from the political right, it is the top news story of
the day. Consider the case of former Rep. Bob Livingston, Republican of Arkansas. During the height of former President Clinton’s
impeachment, and only a matter of hours after becoming Speaker of the House, Livingston was forced to admit to having
an extramarital affair while simultaneously lambasting then-President Clinton for lying under oath about the same thing. Disgraced, Livingston resigned.

What occurred with this event was that the left placed blame on Livingston for accusing Clinton while they ignored the
President’s transgressions. Livingston was a hypocrite for criticizing Clinton, but the left actively chose to ignore Clinton’s wrongdoings in favor
of targeting his critics. The liberal media and the Democrats shamed the Republican hypocrite into retirement.

The last four months or so have presented us with a cornucopia of examples of the left’s hypocrisy. They are
every bit as lamentable as those of the right, yet the liberal media and the Democrats freely sweep their own
faults under the rug. Examine the candidacy of Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecticut for Vice President. He is a Jewish
man with a strong faith in whose life religion is central. Until his close association with former Vice President Al
Gore, his morality and honesty were respected by both sides of the aisle. He even earned the title “The Conscience
of the Senate.” In the campaign, despite his superfluous invocations of religion (taboo for a Republican), no one in the
liberal media establishment questioned his ability to respect the separation between church and state, the hallmark of our secular republic.

Now consider the nomination process of Attorney General John Ashcroft. Ashcroft is a conservative Republican in whose life religion is
central. The difference is that Ashcroft is a conservative, Southern Christian—and a Republican. Like Lieberman, Ashcroft does not hide his
love for his religion. He is every bit as proud to be a Christian as Lieberman is to be a
Jew. Yet for some reason, the left would have you believe that as Attorney General, Ashcroft will seek to implement
a Taliban-like Christian theocracy. Obviously, because Ashcroft is Southern, Christian, and conservative, he would be unable to respect the separation
between church and state. Have you heard much about Attorney General Ashcroft since his mostly partisan confirmation by the Senate?
No, you haven’t, because he runs a tight ship with the separation between church and state firmly in place, and
the left will not admit to its own hypocrisy.

Now turn to the example of Cruz Bustamante. Haven’t heard about him either? With good reason. Bustamante is the liberal
Democrat lieutenant-governor of California, the second-highest public official in our nation’s most populous state. A couple of weeks ago he
was speaking at a Black History Month celebration sponsored by the Coalition of Black Trade Unionists when he referred to
blacks using the n-word. Aghast, a quarter of the 400-strong black audience walked out while Bustamante pitifully tried to explain
that it was a “slip.” Good excuse. Such an egregious slip would not occur unless the word was used commonly
in other settings, says Gwendalyn Bello, who was in the audience. But where was the outrage? Shouldn’t the NAACP have
called for a tourism boycott of California? Shouldn’t Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson have led a protest march in Sacramento?
Where was Rep. Maxine Waters, the vocal black California liberal? The silence was deafening. Now imagine the reaction from the
left had the “slip” come from the mouth of a Republican. He, like Livingston, would have been shamed into hiding.
Hypocrites.

According to black columnist Joseph Perkins, the leaders of the left “are far more motivated...by partisan politics than by moral
principle.” Jesse Jackson’s name slipped in there a few sentences back, didn’t it? Do you remember the middle of January
when Jackson admitted to fathering a child by a mistress at the same time as he was “ministering” to Bill
Clinton during his Monica fiasco? Imagine the gall Jackson has to preach from his high horse about morality and social
vices while abusing the trust of his blind followers in such a way. It was even disclosed that Jackson paid
his mistress hush money in the form of cash, monthly support, and a new house. But there was only a
spattering of criticism, as the left is not eager to expose the hypocrisy of one of its own. A Republican
hypocrite in the same position would surely have been shunned out of public life forever.

The new Democratic National Committee chairman, Clinton chum Terry McAuliffe, recently used the phrase “colored people” in reference to blacks,
a term considered offensive. But the DNC delegates and the left’s lapdog James Carville, and liberal policy maker The New
York Times, are suddenly publicly shocked at the newest Clinton outrages. Even Al Gore got in on the criticism action.
Where have these hypocrites been for the last eight years? Suddenly those who would lay claim to “a vast, right-wing
conspiracy” or to the argument that “it is only about sex” are appalled at Clinton’s actions. Is it possible that
the left is actually disappointed in Clinton’s actions? No. The left is upset because he proved them to be fools,
fools who were suckered by him for eight years. The left is upset because Clinton is no longer in power,
thereby allowing their criticism of him without the worry of losing favor with the Philanderer-in-Chief. And the left is upset
because Clinton’s most recent actions were so reprehensible that they would be gravely mistaken to support him now, because in
doing so they would expose their hypocrisy for all the world to see. But why did they support Clinton when
he repeatedly perjured himself? Why did they defend Clinton from the numerous charges of rape levied against him? Why did
they tolerate Clinton when he bombed an aspirin factory in Sudan to divert attention from his domestic scandals? The left’s
hypocrisy is intolerable.is upset because Clinton is no longer in power, thereby allowing their were quite willing to accept McAuliffe’s
bland excuse that he meant to say “people of color.” Of course he did. Now imagine Republican National Committee chairman
Jim Gilmore, the conservative former governor of Virginia, using the same phrase with the same mea culpa. The left and
all its institutions would have smeared Gilmore for being insensitive to blacks. Why was the left wary to criticize McAuliffe
for his hypocrisy? Because he’s one of their own. Imagine the uproar of Bill Clinton’s last-minute pardons and his and
Hillary’s stealing of gifts to the White House. Why all the fuss? This smut is nothing new from these clowns.
But the left, including Clinton apologists like Massachusetts Representative Barney Frank, Chief criticism of him without the worry of losing
favor with the Philanderer-in-Chief. Why all of a sudden, after Clinton’s past outrages, does the left feel the need to
criticize? Those of us who have consistently criticized Clinton’s shortcomings (euphemism) are bewildered. Welcome to reality, all you Clinton apologists,
but thank you, there is no room for hypocrites here. The blatant hypocrisy of the left and their efforts to
cover it up are pitiful and selfish attempts at moral responsibility. Many Americans are smart enough to see through this
behavior. When will the left be smart enough to condemn hypocrisy when one of their own is at fault?

Clinton-Rodham family on crime spree: Americans seek justice
By John Pitts

Columnist George W. Bush has been doing such an exemplary job embarrassing his critics in the past weeks that Bill
Clinton should have had no trouble fading into his newfound private life while Hillary launched her career as the junior
senator from New York. But alas, the Clinton-Rodham family could not resist their pathological urge to break the law and
bend the truth. Their antics began only moments after Clinton’s term had come to an end. As he and Hillary
set off for Chappaqua, his aides and staff were busy inflicting tens of thousands of dollars of damage to White
House computers, office equipment, and grounds. Meanwhile, Bill and Hillary ran off with over $100,000 in taxpayers’ property. The Clintons
claimed they were taking along “housewarming gifts from supporters.” In reality, they flagrantly had stolen furniture that was donated to
the White House restoration fund. Clinton and his staff should have been arrested and brought up on charges ranging from
destruction of property to larceny, but by the goodwill of Bush, an investigation was foregone in the hopes of healing
for the nation. As if Bill had not destroyed or wasted enough of the taxpayers’ dollars, his request for $750,000
a year in rent for an entire floor of a glitzy New York high rise was ludicrous. A justly irate
electorate thankfully booted him into Harlem in hopes of discovering a reasonable lease. Not to be outdone by the Gambinos,
Clinton is now attempting to evict one of New York’s child services’ offices. Who exactly does he think he is?
Does our ex-president feel he has immunity to do whatever to whomever he pleases? Apparently, he does. After donating $450,000
to the Clinton Library and thousands to the Democratic National Committee, Denise Rich secured a presidential pardon for her ex-husband
Marc Rich. Rich has been hiding out in Switzerland for eighteen years after failing to pay $48 million in fines
to the IRS and avoiding arrest for conducting illegal oil deals with Iran. While in Switzerland, he renounced his citizenship.
Clinton failed to consult any of the attorneys involved in the case before declaring Rich’s pardon. In fact, the lead
prosecutor was shocked to learn that the most-wanted white-collar criminal had been pardoned without their consultation. A tax-evading, embargo-breaking, non-citizen
funnels $450,000 to Clinton and coincidentally is pardoned. Not surprisingly, abuse of power is a family affair. A congressional investigation
has found that Hillary supported the pardoning of four Hasidic leaders from New York who had been convicted of stealing
over $40 million from corporations. The evidence points to a horse trade: their support in her election for a pardon.
(She won close to 100% of the vote in their community.) Hillary awarded her treasurer $4,000 to file four pardon
applications. In a final insult to justice, Hillary’s brother and golfing pal of Bill, Hugh Rodham, received $400,000 to secure
two pardons for convicted felons. Showing the true Rodham genius, he apologized, returned the money, later denied it ever happened,
and is now apologizing again. Bill did a great job teaching his brother-in-law to be a double-speaking, lying criminal! Sources
say Hillary was “saddened” but it was not reported as to whether or not her “sorrow” stemmed from being caught
for purchasing support in New York or being associated with Bill and Hugh. The Clintons’ antics are at times funny
and absurd, but there is no humor in the severe perversion of justice that has occurred in the past weeks.
Americans should be outraged that their justice system has been manipulated and sold to the highest bidder in order to
fulfill the political dreams of an elite. It comes as no surprise that the Democrats in Congress have all but
abandoned the Clinton family and are standing beside the Republicans in calling for investigations. Bush had noble intentions in trying
to ignore Clinton’s misbehavior but the time has come when justice has been bullied and bruised far too much. For
the good of the nation, Bill and Hillary Clinton, Hugh Rodham, William Cunningham, Marc and Denise Rich, and the four
Hasidic leaders from New York must be tried and convicted to the fullest extent allowable by law. Their cabal of
deceit and treason will not be tolerated. Americans should refuse to stand idle while the justice system is raped and
pillaged, no matter if by a common street thug or an ex-president. These days it is hard to tell the
difference.
