First, Second Nights

Down bring music, fun

BY ROLAND F. FOSS
Staff Writer

Upperclassmen and first-year students alike flocked to Patterson Court Friday night to celebrate First Night Down. This annual event marked
the first time the class of 2005 was allowed at Davidson’s fraternities and eating houses.

The inaugural celebration of Fall Frolics took place Saturday afternoon, and only hours later “Second Night Down” commenced on Saturday
night.

The weekend started with a spaghetti dinner sponsored by Project Life (see story, Page 3). Over 500 people attended the
event. According to Victoria Statler, co-coordinator for Project Life, “In its seventh year at Davidson, the Spaghetti Dinner had its
most successful turnout... the dinner itself could not have gone better.” The dinner netted over $2300.

Later that night, Pi Kappa Alpha teamed up with Rusk eating house to host the band “To the Nines.” Sigma
Phi Epsilon provided Georgia Avenue, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon showed off Junk in the Trunk.

Alternative entertainment events were provided by both the Black Student Coalition and the Office of the Chaplain. Pat Dochety ’04
attended the chaplain’s party, held at DCPC, which showed two movies and provided food and drinks. “I was searching for
something different from last year’s First Night Down experience,” he said. Dochety particularly enjoyed the “fellowship with friends and new
acquaintances” the event offered.

Fall Frolics occurred Saturday afternoon, bringing back Georgia Avenue and Virginia Coalition. Games, free food, entertainment, and a beautiful day
brought many out to relax and have fun. Bronwyn McKnew ’03 liked the fact that Fall Frolics allowed the weekend
to be a “non-stop party.”

Tyler Covington ’05 had a slightly different take on the event. “Fall Frolics was a nice break between parties and
allowed me to just relax,” he said.

Fall Frolics, too, was officially pronounced a success. The hook was obvious: “free food, fun games and good music.” Will
Parker ’02, President of the Union Board, commented: “The Union Board forged new ground this weekend with Fall Frolics. We’re
hoping that Fall Frolics will be an event that sticks around for a while... people had fun.”

Saturday night saw food at Connor eating house (featuring Papa D’s famous quesadillas) and parties by the Davidson International Association,
Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha, CoHo, and the Black Student Coalition.

The party thrown by the Davidson International Association at the Outpost was noted for its unique character. There was a
wide variety of dance music—trance, techno, and Latin. Kiril Dimov ’05, a native of Bulgaria, observed that the other parties
all had “similar music” and that their atmospheres were not conducive to talking. Yurii Kornilev ’05, also from Bulgaria, attended
the International Association’s dance as well. Kornilev thought that this party provided some “pretty good music,” then added that “parties
are different” here in the U.S. from what he is used to back home.

Most students seemed to enjoy the Court parties. A majority of those asked thought that Second Night Down was more
fun. Ty Plowshay ’05 was “surprised by the openness of each house” and was “impressed by the options” between different
events, whether it was music by Copper Sails at CoHo or movies at the DCPC.

Spaghetti dinner fundraiser boosts Project Life

By Emily Drew
Staff Writer

Project Life hosted its annual spaghetti dinner on September 8, raising over $3,500 and serving over 500 students, staff, faculty,
and community members. Proceeds from the dinner absorb the high cost of bone marrow typing, the main focus of Project
Life.

Matt Whited ’04 and Mike Dausch ’04 supplied live guitar entertainment to the crowd that dined on Chamber’s lawn, and
Project Life t-shirts were sold to benefit the organization.

“We really appreciate the great turnout and hope that everyone knows what an important cause they support when they participate
in Project Life activities,” said Kate Giguere ’04.

Giguere and Victoria Statler ’03 act as co-chairs for Project Life, now in its 10th year at Davidson College. In
2001, the organization hopes to raise over $35,000 to cover the cost of typing: $80 per person.

When typed, donors are registered on the National Marrow Donor Registry and can potentially be matched to cancer patients who
are waiting for marrow transplants. To date, Project Life has typed over 4000 people and has had 13 people complete
the bone marrow donation process. The organization aspires to type at least 400 new people each year.

Their annual bone marrow typing drive will be held on November 13 and 14 in the Brown Atrium of the
Alvarez College Union. Project Life t-shirts will be on sale in Chambers and the Union through Sept. 15, as well
as at the Homecoming football game.

Thursday’s SGA Meeting has been postponed until next week due to the Union Dedication celebration.

SGA will meet every other Thursday night at 9:00 in the Sprinkle Room (4th floor of the Campus Center). Please
come to find out what’s going on and to be a part of the discussion!

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for birthday or graduation celebrations,
study breaks, exam time or just for fun!

BEN & JERRY’S
VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE

Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

You didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!
Eat-in or Take-out
The Soda Shop
141 N. Main St.
