Duquesne 15, Davidson 7

PITTSBURGH, PA.—The Davidson lacrosse team continued to struggle as it fell to 3-8 on the season with a 15-7 loss
to Duquesne Friday night at Rooney Field. Davidson, which began the season with a school-best record of 3-2, received two
goals each from seniors Steph Hunter and Lauren Kenchington. But the Duquesne lacrosse squad was too much to handle. The
Dukes’ Meghan Hungate notched her second six-goal performance of her career, leading all scorers while adding two assists for a
game-best eight points. Katie Harner netted two goals and added three assists, while twin sister Kristin notched three goals in
the victory. Also scoring for the Red & Blue were Lauren Dutch (2 goals, 1 assist), Lauren Mincher (1 goal,
1 assist), and Rebecca West (1 goal). P.J. Harrison snagged seven saves on the night. The Dukes held a 6-2
edge at the half and continued to build on that lead throughout the final 30 minutes of play.

Davidson 14, Mt. St. Mary’s 10

April Fool’s Day proved to be no joke as the Davidson lacrosse team ended its six-game losing streak with a
14-10 victory over Mount St. Mary’s College Sunday afternoon at the Mount St. Mary’s College Lacrosse Field. Seniors Steph Hunter
and Lauren Kenchington, along with junior Sarah Otto, each scored three goals to lead the Wildcat scoring attack. The first
half remained fairly close, as the Wildcats (4-8) jumped out to an early 1-0 lead with a shot by Otto
reaching the back of the net just 13 seconds into the game. Good penetration by the Mount’s Lara Steinbraker, however,
quickly tied the game up at one two minutes later, as both teams traded goals three more times to keep
the score even at four with a little over 11 minutes left in the first, before the Wildcats took control
of the final 10 minutes of the half and amassed a 7-4 halftime lead.

The second half started off extremely slowly for Mount St. Mary’s, as Otto capped off another three-goal scoring spree by
the Wildcats to help Davidson extend its lead to 10-4 with 23 minutes yet to play. Morley got her second
goal of the day after receiving a breakaway pass from Kelly Moran and taking advantage of a one-on-one situation with
freshman goalie, Becca Nussbaum. Once again, though, the Wildcats put together another three-goal performance, capped by Otto, to take their
largest lead in the game, 13-5, at the 18-minute mark. The rest of the half belonged to the Mount as
three different players, including Erin Garga, Harris, and Moran, scored in less than seven minutes, cutting the Wildcats’ lead to
five.

A third and final goal by Hunter stalled the Mount’s momentum before Morley and Ashley Rusk scored two more for
the Mount, cutting the Wildcat lead to four with just over four minutes left in the game. On the ensuing
draw control, Davidson took possession for the rest of the time remaining and left the match on top with a
14-10 victory over the Mount. Harris contributed with two goals in the game, and Steinbraker had a goal and two
assists. The Wildcats were led by their overall point leaders, Sarah Otto with three goals, Lauren Kenchington with three goals
and one assist, and Hunter with three goals and two assists. The Wildcats next host Richmond April 7 at 1
p.m.

—Derek Smith, Davidson S.I.D.

Volleyball’s Bentley awarded Hicks scholarship

By JENN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

Senior volleyball player Brooke Bentley was awarded last week the 2001 Dorothy Hicks Graduate Scholarship. The $2,000 scholarship is awarded
annually to a female student-athlete in the Southern Conference to continue her education in graduate school. Bentley, a 1997 graduate
of St. John’s High School in Houston, Texas, has a 3.7 grade point average in political science, with a minor
in Spanish. She plans on pursuing a law degree at Texas after working as a paralegal in Washington, DC, for
two years. She has team-taught legal cases with Dr. Louis Ortmayer, a professor of political science, and is co-authoring a
contemporary case study in American foreign policy. In an e-mail correspondence, Bentley elaborated on her career plan. “I have always
been fascinated by politics and ultimately I would love to work in the executive branch, specifically in the State Department,”
she said. “International politics has been the focus of my studies, with...The increasing permeability of national borders means global relations
are taking on a much more dynamic role. I realize, however, that this is the type of job that requires
years of experience. Thus, I would like to begin my career in law, most especially in the area of international
commerce and trade.

As an outside hitter, Bentley has led Davidson to two conference tournament titles and the Wildcats’ first NCAA appearance in
program history. She earned a spot in the Davidson record books, recording 1,599 career digs, the second-most in program history,
and is among the kills leaders with 1,056. She served as team captain in 2000 and was selected as co-MVP
of the team, along with Mara Mordini.

The match in Hawaii was most likely the pinnacle of my collegiate career. After enduring a somewhat inconsistent season, the
team peaked when it mattered most—the Southern Conference Tournament. Then we went to Hawaii and just played like we had
nothing to lose. The energy emitted by the 5,000 fans made the match incredibly fun, and the standing ovation we
received after the last game was a true testament to the heart of the team.

Wildcats set records at Raleigh Relays
Record-setting performances by women’s relay teams lead strong Davidson effort
By Mike Clark, Davidson S.I.D.

RALEIGH, N.C. — The Davidson track teams competed last weekend in the Raleigh Relays, one of the largest track and
field meets on the East Coast with more than 2,000 athletes present from more than 100 teams. While there were
no Wildcats who placed in the top 10 at the meet, there were several strong performances for the men and
multiple record-setting performances for the women.

The women’s 4x100 meter relay team set a new school record with a time of 50.33, breaking the previous mark
of 50.63 set in 1996. Later in the day, the women shaved just over three seconds off the school record
in the 4x200 meter relay, finishing the race in a time of 1:48.61. That time bettered the previous mark of
1:51.64 set in 1982. The team made it a perfect three for three with yet another school record. This time,
the 4x800 record fell. The Davidson runners finished in a time of 9:36.60, which was just under four seconds better
than the record set in 1999 (9:40.57).

In non-relay events, freshman Laura Puckett (St. Paul, Minn.) finished 77th overall in the women’s 1500 meters with a time
of 4:59.99. Freshman Amanda Yeck (Swansboro, N.C.) leapt 9.96m and earned 47th place in the triple jump. Junior Megan O’Neill
(Charlotte, N.C.) finished 39th overall in the shot put with a throw of 10.47m.

For the men, there were two top 30 performances in the relays. The 4x100 meter relay team finished 27th with
a time of 44.34, while the 4x800 relay was 25th. Their time of 8:03.42 was among the top 10 fastest
in school history. Five individuals also competed at the meet. Jimmy Swansbrough finished 27th in the steeplechase with a 9:50.53,
which puts him among the 10 fastest athletes to compete in that event at Davidson. Brad Becken and Chris Schmader
both competed in the 10,000 meters, finishing 51st and 58th respectively. The duo of Ben Gaspar and Dave Bunge ran
the 5,000 meters and finished 114th and 120th.

The men and women will head their separate ways this weekend as the men head to Durham, N.C. for the
Duke Invitational while the women head to the Georgia Tech Invitational in Atlanta, Ga.

Men’s tennis tops VMI
By Mike Clark, Davidson S.I.D.

LEXINGTON, Va. — For the second consecutive match, the Davidson men’s tennis team posted a 7-0 shutout, this time over
conference-rival VMI (8-8, 0-6). With the win, the Wildcats (7-6, 2-2 Southern Conference) break the .500 mark for the first
time since February 3.

Senior Whit Hansen (No. 1) was the only player who had to go to three sets to pull out a
victory in singles. Hansen rallied after dropping the first-set tie-breaker to win the final two sets, 7-5, 6-2. He has
played five three-set matches this season, most on the team, and is 3-2 in those battles. Junior Chad Winebarger (No.
3) notched a perfect 6-0, 6-0 win over Tappan August of VMI. At number five singles, junior David Webb picked
up his third straight win since moving back into the starting lineup, 6-3, 6-2.

In doubles action, Winebarger and freshman Rob Gould’s 8-2 triumph was their 10th doubles victory of the year. Hansen and
fellow senior Billy Boykin did not play their match at number one doubles.
