College papers face criticism over ad!
By Jessica Mering
News Editor

Are newspapers accountable for the content in the paid advertisements they print? Many college newspaper editors have been asking just
that question in the last several weeks as they decided whether to print a politically-charged ad. Sixty-five college newspapers, primarily
dailies, received an ad headed: “Ten Reasons Why Reparations for Slavery is a Bad Idea for Blacks - and Racist
Too.” Conservative author David Horowitz, president of The Center for the Study of Popular Culture, wrote and submitted the full-page
ad. His claims, while shared by others, had the power to incite strong feelings and encourage controversy. Of the sixty-five
newspapers that received the ad, more than half of them rejected it on the grounds that paid advertisements were subject
to the discretion of the staff. Most of the newspapers are run independently of their universities and therefore enjoy complete
freedom when deciding what to run.

In an interview with DiversityInc.com, Horowitz accused the papers of censorship and argued that their refusals violated his First Amendment
rights. Advertisement regulations, however, are often very separate from editorial procedure. Many editors chose to reject the ad for practical
reasons. “Advertising space is not sacred ground; it is space bought with money. That space comes with restrictions and standards
far different from those on an opinion or editorial page... Writing opinion pieces and news stories that may upset readers
is often good journalism. Selling advertisements that alienate customers is just bad business,” said the editors of the Yale Daily
News in an interview with The Washington Post.

By separating the editorial and business staffs, newspapers attempt to retain distinction between the two jobs. Editors, through the use
of opinion sections and letters to the editor, shoulder the responsibility for facilitating a public forum where any voice can
be heard. In an interview with The Washington Post, Jennifer Kepka (American University’s Eagle) explained that her paper’s decision not
to print the ad was based more on its form than its content: “If Mr. Horowitz had chosen to submit
his piece as an opinion-editorial, with a campus co-signer, we wouldn’t be having this discussion. We would have printed it.
Advertising, however, doesn’t have that kind of protection on our pages and I don’t believe it should.” In other words,
not printing an editorial is censorship while not printing an ad is good business.

Of the twenty newspapers that printed the ads so far, three of them have since apologized for their decision. Editors
at the Daily Californian (UC Berkeley), State Press (Arizona State), and the Aggie (UC Davis) issued public statements in which
they expressed their regret for printing the ad. “The Daily Cal’s ad policy does not allow the publishing of ads
with incorrect or blatantly inflammatory content... the ad allowed the Daily Cal to become an inadvertent vehicle for bigotry,” said
its editor Daniel Hernandez. Other newspapers have published the ad and, despite protest, stood behind their decisions. Irate students removed
copies of Brown University’s Daily Herald from the stands.

By Erin Berry
Campus police collected about forty “abandoned” bikes recently.

Police pick up “abandoned” bikes
By Brent Byars
Staff Writer

Without the help of the Department of Public Safety, Davidson’s little campus could have turned into a bike graveyard by
now. Campus police have been collecting “abandoned-looking bikes” for more than a year, says Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey.
McKelvey says that police officers observed most of the bikes in their abandoned state “for some time” before they were
rescued. The bikes were found “in bushes, and lying along roadways, paths, and lawns,” McKelvey notes. Many students who have
had their bikes taken complain that the department took them from a bike rack, but McKelvey figures that other students
may have “borrowed” the unsecured bikes and left them somewhere in a hurry. That’s exactly what happened to Stratton Lawrence
’03, whose bike was stolen, found, and then recovered by Public Safety in front of Knox. Campus police currently have
a cache of about 40 bikes in their storage area. An email sent from the Dean of Students office on
March 15 informed students about the orphaned bikes, and...urged those with missing bikes to call Public Safety. It’s not clear
whether Public Safety made good on the email’s deadline for disposal of the bikes, but McKelvey insists that proper notice
was given. Public Safety’s website lists ways that students can safeguard their bikes, the most important of which is a
reliable bike lock. Students can also have their bikes registered with the department for free, so that the bike is
more easily recovered later. Students can call Public Safety at x2178 for more information or to inquire after the lost-and-found.

At Duke University, hundreds of students protested the Chronicle’s decision to run the ad, and the campus police were forced
to escort out more than fifteen protesters who stormed the paper’s office. “We have made a commitment to be an
open forum for all ideas. In America, at newspapers and college campuses especially, we value that free exchange and different
views. Frank discussion comes at the expense of comfort,” said Chronicle editor Greg Pessin. In a four-page public statement, the
Chronicle staff states: “Our actions over the past few days have been consistent with our principles as journalists, students, and
community members. They have been consistent, too, with the invaluable tradition of free expression, open debate. We stand by our
principles and our actions, and reiterate our commitment to fostering a space for diverse viewpoints.”

Horowitz begins his argument by noting that “There is No Single Group Clearly Responsible for the Crime of Slavery.” He
claims that there were thousands of non-white slaveholders and that it is therefore impossible to assign payment responsibility to any
one faction. He points out that because of immigration, a relatively small number of today’s Americans have any direct connection
to slavery. Horowitz claims that there is no evidence showing that today’s African-Americans suffer any economic consequences of slavery. He
also suggests that reparations would ultimately have divisive effects on American society by further underscoring and separating racial groups. He
claims that “reparations to African-Americans have already been paid...in the form of welfare benefits and racial preferences.” Finally, he suggests
that any debt owed to African-Americans is countered by a debt owed by them to others who have worked for
equality: “If not for the sacrifices of white soldiers and a white American president who gave his life to sign
the Emancipation Proclamation, blacks in America would still be slaves. If not for the dedication of Americans of all ethnicities
and colors to a society based on the principle that all men are created equal, blacks would not enjoy the
highest standard of living of blacks anywhere in the world...Where is the gratitude of black America and its leaders for
those gifts?”
