Our Wish List

Were you beginning to think we’d never publish? Alas, The Davidsonian is back. For our first editorial, we decided that rather than focusing on one issue, we would assemble a “wish list” of all the things we’d like changed about the school. The list is wide-ranging and sure to ignite some debate. That is our intention. We want to give our readers more opportunities to respond, through letters to the editor, story ideas, or even general comments and concerns. Contact us by e-mail or leave a note at our office, Room 411, on the top floor of the Union. With that, let us begin:

@ That students would get more excited about Davidson athletics. Student attendance at Saturday’s football home opener appeared to be around 400, which is pretty lame. Get excited, folks. Show some school pride. Do we need to go 10-0 just to pack little Richardson Stadium?

@ That tables in Vail Commons be returned to last year’s arrangement. The school’s intention apparently is to increase interaction between large groups of people by creating a few large tables rather than many smaller ones. This “forced integration” is a little much. Sometimes we may want to eat with six or seven students, other times just one or two. The tables should be arranged accordingly. It’s time for the social experimentation to end.

@ That more benches be placed around campus, especially outside the residence halls. The days of warm and sunny weather will soon be over until next year. It would be nice to have more places to enjoy them.

@ That everyone associated with Davidson could be as friendly and enthusiastic as college president Bobby Vagt. We’re not just kissing up here. He really is a great guy.

@ That the school could find a way to lower textbook prices. There has to be a better alternative to the current system. We pay enough tuition already. Another 400 or 500 bucks on books borders on obscene.

@ That the school re-examine its physical education requirements. After careful consideration, it seems that PE 101 (for first-year students) does have some merit. But all the other stuff they’ve tacked on, such as team and water sports classes, is an unnecessary hassle.

@ That for once, just once, the Davidsonian would actually be finished before sunrise. Then we would be able to enjoy the splendor that is the September Davidson weather, instead of being asleep in our beds at three in the afternoon. This one is dedicated to the crew.

Hey you! Surf this: coolest website in the world: The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

@ Editor: Burgin Hardin
Managing Editors: Tim Cook, Matt Garfield
News Editors: Lindy Baldwin, Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editors: Martha Hunt, Derek Loh
Sports Editors: Caroline Hauser, Jimmy Swansbrough
Photography Editors: Bh Berry, Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers: Rick Bold, Aaron Houck, Jeff Larrimore
Circulation Manager: Massie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR

In my first several weeks at Davidson, I have made several key observations about the college and its students.

1. Students, faculty, and staff are incredibly friendly. Where I come from, in New York City, no stranger would have taken the time and effort to help me carry my printer from the Union to my dorm room.
2. The students are smart. I am constantly amazed to find out that the people to either side of me were both valedictorians of their respective high schools.
3. Davidson takes its Presbyterian roots very seriously.
4. For the most part, Davidson’s student body is remarkably homogeneous.

It is these last two observations that I would like to address, for I feel they are closely related. We all know that Davidson was founded by Presbyterians, and, as stated in the college’s Statement of Purpose, “Davidson commits itself to a Christian tradition that recognizes God as the source of all truth, and finds in Jesus Christ the revelation of that God, a God bound by no church or creed.” However, the Statement of Purpose also claims “Davidson values its diversity and seeks to be a community that recognizes the dignity and inherent worth of every person.” My question is, can these two statements coexist? I have already been to several campus-wide events in which prayers invoking Jesus Christ were given. While I am certainly in favor of allowing anyone who wishes the opportunity to worship...Jesus, invoking Jesus’ name in official speeches suggests a preference on the part of the college for the Christian faith. Davidson cannot expect to attract a truly diverse group of students who have differing beliefs and opinions if it chooses to publicly favor the beliefs of one, and only one, group. Now, as I said before, Davidson students are clearly smart and friendly, and I would think most would welcome the opportunity to live and learn next to people who have ideas very different from their own. Davidson is certainly not a hostile campus to those with different beliefs, yet as long as the college chooses to support one belief over another, I find it hard to believe that the school can create the diverse community it seeks.

Knowledge will prevail in stem cell debate

Throughout modern history, breakthroughs in science have leapt ahead of governmental blockades and religious hierarchies. No amount of partisan law or moralistic doctrine could prevent the discoveries of Galileo, Darwin, or Einstein. In every age, the masses have feared scientific developments while subsequently reaping benefits from those discoveries. This repetitive history should inspire people to embrace science for its possible benefits to mankind, but in the 21st century Americans are still clamoring to prevent “too much” scientific research. The most recent big scare has come from the proposal to perform stem cell research.

Like many other Americans, I watched President Bush’s speech, and I am still struggling to comprehend the science behind the issue. I agree that as a world leader in the field of science, America needs to carefully examine the ethical issues behind the research, and, for once, I thought that President Bush, as leader of the free world, handled the issue in an appropriate and conservatively constructive manner. My only huge qualm with the legislation came from a clash with the approved sources of research material. Currently, stem cell researchers can only use cells that are already being tested or are stored in a laboratory. Thousands, if not millions, of stem cells wither away in in vitro fertilization clinics each year. Prospective parents are forced to make the decision between having more children, a potentially risky process for the mother, and allowing the fertilized eggs to, in essence, expire. I would support the government allowing these couples to donate their extra fertilized eggs to science so that they might help better mankind.

Whether stem cell research turns out to be the salvation for humanity or yet another dead-end street for scientists is irrelevant. Knowledge will prevail in the end. If stem cell research, cloning, and whatever else scientists can think up doesn’t happen in America, it will happen in other countries. America needs to take a proactive approach toward science while simultaneously anchoring itself in solid bioethics. America has the choice to dominate the crest of scientific history or to be swallowed by its tumultuous wake.

First Night Down tradition should be left alone

A big concern regarding First Night Down is that it encourages binge drinking as part of the celebration. To be clear, it is not completely about alcohol, hooking up, and passing out. But neither is every other night on Patterson Court. First Night Down introduces the freshmen to a new setting, allows them to enter with a bang, and finally become acquainted with whatever is beyond the brick path that goes down the hill. It is an entrance into Davidson’s own Animal House.

Some of our administration and fellow students question the importance of First Night Down. Should Davidson really promote an evening of wild, crazy fun?

Here is my opinion: If we are able to die for our country then we should be able to enjoy college life to the fullest. The stress of academics can only be taken so far, and if we choose to join the hazards of First Night Down and Patterson Court, it is our decision. Some of the freshmen will fall in love with it and join an eating house or fraternity second semester, while others will establish themselves outside of Patterson Court. What is important is that First Night Down gives the freshmen a chance to make their own decisions on whether or not they want to continue Patterson Court participation. College is about getting a good education, preparing us for what is beyond a degree, but it is also about having the best time of our life and memories that always will make a great story.