DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Complaints surface over new parking rules

By Burcin Harden
Sports Editor

At its weekly Tuesday night meeting, the SGA debated but ultimately tabled a resolution requiring all first-year students—beginning with the
Class of 2005—to park in the lot outside Baker Sports Complex.

Sophomore class president Kevin Epps proposed the measure after working for weeks with SGA President Joey Harris and campus safety
chief Sam McKelvey. The trio had considered other options, including class-specific parking zones and the use of a lottery to
assign parking spaces, but neither alternative proved an equitable solution.

“This resolution will make parking safer, more convenient, and not as competitive for the number of spaces we have available,”
said Epps. “We want parking to be a service. We don’t want students to have to park in Satellite and
then walk to Duke.”

Satellite parking, according to Epps, is overflowing and students are parking on the unpaved, unlighted road behind the Satellite lot—a
strip that actually belongs to Duke Power Co. Mandating parking in Baker, a lot that remains largely empty, will move
cars out of those unsafe areas.

Opposition to the proposal came from a number of senators. Some representatives disliked the idea of singling out one class
while others did not see the advantage of requiring freshmen to park in a lot on the side of campus
opposite from where the majority of freshmen are housed. Epps called for a vote on the resolution, but SGA Vice
President Beth Gardner moved to table the resolution if it was not voted on after twenty minutes of debate. Enough
senators left, however, before debate was over that the SGA did not have a quorum and therefore could not hold
a vote. The senators will plan to vote on the resolution at the SGA’s next meeting, a week from Thursday.

Epps’ proposal comes on the heels of a town ordinance that went into effect last week restricting overnight parking on
Main Street. The ordinance prohibits townspeople and students alike from leaving their cars curbside between 2 and 5 in the
morning. Violators will be towed at their own expense.

The town ordinance is designed to discourage students from leaving their cars parked on Main Street for days on end,
according to town manager Leamon Brice. Without a constant turnover, downtown merchants and patrons have had difficulty finding parking spaces
during the day.

“It appeared that a lot of the parking was cars that never moved or would stay for several days at
a time,” said Brice. “We did the no-parking-at-night to make sure that the parking was not used for car storage.

“We wanted to make sure that that parking turned over at least once a day and make it possible for
downtown workers, merchants, and patrons to access the parking.”

Students have complied with the ordinance.

Phi Delt prank doesn’t make everyone laugh

By Timothy Cook
News Editor

The library was the scene of some controversy last Friday, when Phi Delta Theta practiced one of their favorite traditions.
It was late Thursday night when two unnamed seniors were carrying some 30 to 40 books piled high in their
arms on the stairs between the ground floor and the second floor. The two men then “tripped” and they along
with their books went tumbling down several steps. A laughing crowd gathered around the spectacle, which Phi Delt said was
meant to be comic relief to break the study mood at the library.

One person who was not laughing among those who were watching was German Department Chair, Dr. Scott Denham. After the
incident occurred, he wrote an e-mail to the president of Phi Delt, Evan Shay and various others expressing his concerns
over what he called “an unwanted encounter.” In that e-mail (printed in full below), Dr. Denham disclosed his conception of
what happened that afternoon and his anger about the destruction of a book.

Denham wrote in the letter that he witnessed an act of hazing on a pledge by the upperclassmen brothers. He
also said that it looked as if there were “maybe 200 books” on the floor and that he found one
book had its cover damaged.e-mail Denham covered points in both the Code of Responsibility and the college’s Hazing policy. But,
after an investigation by Dean Marsicano and Library Director Leland Park, the incident was found not to have anything to
do with hazing. The two students were see Phi Delt, page 5 also see The E-mail, page 5— Matt Whited

Members of eating houses and fraternities are encouraging the addition of sororities to Patterson Court.

Group campaigns for sororities at Davidson
By Lindy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

High school seniors searching for the “perfect college” usually consider a myriad of factors in choosing their final destination. One
major consideration is usually the social life on campus — including the presence or absence of fraternities and sororities. The
Greek presence on campus can take many forms, from Dartmouth (where they dominate the social scene) to Swarthmore (where the
student body is fiercely opposed to the idea).

Davidson’s own Greek system is somewhat unusual in that only fraternities are present on campus. However, a growing group of
students is seeking to change that. Megan Tate, a junior in Rusk, is one of the leaders in the movement
to bring sororities to Davidson’s campus. “The thought of starting a sorority has passed in and out of my mind
ever since sophomore year,” she explained. “I have always thought that the bond the fraternity brothers have is simply amazing
and have wished to have a similar experience for myself.

“I see that bond created through the small size of their houses and the time spent together, especially in that
first semester as freshmen. If guys can have the option to go Greek, join an eating house, or be independent,
why can’t girls have the same choices?”

Tate is far from alone in her sentiments. “Several people are involved including Tamsin Garner, Chiqui Sanchez-Ross, Loucinda Pittenger and
members of two fraternities. Also several more have expressed interest if not to join then to give full support for
starting a sorority.”

This group is not the first to attempt to bring sororities to Davidson’s campus. In 1997, Davidson students brought the
issue to President Bobby Vagt. Vagt rejected the idea in early 1998. In a statement (available on the web in
the News & Events Archives), Vagt said, “It is my judgment that the presence of sororities at Davidson could put
at risk one of this institution’s great strengths — that is, the unsurpassed quality of the female applicants for admission.
Clear expressions of concern were voiced by the Admissions Office... Further, the overwhelming majority of the hundreds of female students,
both current and graduated, vigorously asserted that the presence of sororities on this campus would have acted as a strong
depressant on their interest in attending Davidson.

“Absent these facts, simple equity would have dictated inviting sororities to organize here. However, we cannot and will not jeopardize
imprudently something as vital to Davidson as the caliber of its students.”

Tate disagreed with the idea that sororities would act as a deterrent to female applicants. “Several friends didn’t come here
because there weren’t any sororities here on campus and they wanted that sense of sisterhood and connectedness. Sororities may not
be for everyone, but they would make a wonderful contribution to the life on Patterson Court.”

She also objected to the stereotype of sororities as exclusive, even snobby, organizations. see Sororities, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Horowitz calls for free press
Are newspapers accountable for the content in the paid advertisements they print? Conservative author David Horowitz, president of The Center
for the Study of Popular Culture, wrote and submitted a very controversial full-page ad to sixty-five college and university newspapers.
News page 3

Down and dirty at Davidson
The upheaval created by the constant movement of construction vehicles and equipment has spawned huge rivers of brown sludge —
often several inches deep — along roads and near the tennis courts. Officials say relief is at hand, as construction
will soon wind down. News page 4

Say no to drugs
Johnny Depp’s new release Blow was as unmemorable as it was unengaging. Arts & Living page 8

Tenure War
Students debate the recent denial of tenure for Dr. Figueroa and plead for an explanation. PERSPECTIVES page 11
