c
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 1

Honor Code faces possible revisions
BY ROLAND F. FOSS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Honor Code, loved and cherished since its inception, might undergo a significant revision. Pressed by faculty concerns and a desire to keep the Honor Code reasonable and understandable, the Honor Council has initiated a plan for campus discussion. A forum for Honor Council representatives, faculty, administration, and all interested students is scheduled for Thursday, September 6, at 4:15 PM in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room of the Knobloch Campus Center.

Changes to the Honor Code have been contemplated since last semester, when faculty members made a formal complaint to the Faculty Executive Committee. At issue, according to many faculty members, is the difference between the College’s standards and the standards of academia regarding plagiarism. Should Davidson students abide by the rules of the professional academic world, or should the Honor Code be specially designed for Davidson students? Or, as one Honor Council member put it: “Is the Honor Code an academic standard, or is it a standard of character?”

“In the past,” explained Mike Anderson ’02, Policy Coordinator for the Honor Council, “the Council has wrestled with the sticky controversy of ‘unintentional’ or ‘negligent’ plagiarism — where the faulty work was a result of severe laziness rather than a conspiracy to deceive. This proposal hopes to clarify that area of the Code.”

According to Will Parker ’02, the Honor Council Chairman, there is a five-step process for revisions to the Honor Code. First comes small-group discussion within the Honor Council, generally conducted by vari-

RLO fights disease
Fear of Hepatitis B, Meningitis prompts new residence hall bathroom, shower regulations
By PK PATEL
Staff Writer

As the new year began, Davidson students moved into residence halls and learned quickly of new changes awaiting them. Beginning this year, toiletries may no longer be stored in hall bathrooms. Their potential to foster environments conducive to Hepatitis B and Meningitis in this setting has been deemed a serious health threat.

Over the summer, the Residence Life Office (RLO) researched extensively the risks of meningitis and Hepatitis B on college campuses. An article that appeared in the Journal of the American Medical Association reported studies of incidents of meningitis. It was found that first-year students living on college campuses were at high risk of contracting the illness. RLO also learned that students on college campuses were at high risk for Hepatitis B.

Hepatitis B is a virus that causes inflammation and damage of the liver. If this damage is severe, it can lead to death. Hepatitis B can be contracted in several different ways—from contact with blood or body fluids, from sexual contact, or by sharing any items, such as razors or toothbrushes, that may have come in contact with an infected person’s body fluids. It can live in body fluids for up to seven days.

Meningitis is a bacterial infection that causes severe swelling of the brain and spinal cord. It is potentially fatal and leads to death in 20% of all cases. Fortunately, it is relatively rare. Meningitis is spread more easily than Hepatitis B, and can be transmitted through vapors suspended in air and direct contact with a person who is already infected.

Since all of the first-year students and over 90% of upperclassmen at Davidson live on campus, RLO decidedTo take immediate action in order to prevent a potential tragedy. As Leslie Marsicano, Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life, points out, “One death is too many.” It was decided that no student would be allowed to store his or her toiletries in a hall bathroom unless it is equipped with shelves built specifically for this purpose. RLO plans to gradually remove all shelves from all bathrooms before the start of next year. “Since the risk is not urgent,” said Marsicano, “we are...

See Disease, page 2

The Outpost

Perspectives: Students sound off on the retirement announcement of North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms.

Sports: Football runs win streak to nation-best 18 games.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News: School reaches a conclusion with various committees. Second is the inclusion of the entire Davidson College community in a forum. Next comes an Honor Council hearing, the findings of which are sent to the Student Conduct Council, which then refers the matter to the President of the College. The campus-wide meeting scheduled for tomorrow is the second step in the new process. Currently, the portion of the Code relevant to plagiarism states: “Cheating includes plagiarism, which is representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” Under the plan put forth by the Policy Committee of the Honor Council, this sentence would be amended to: “Plagiarizing, whether intentional or by means of unreasonable negligence, is representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” The sentence regarding plagiarism would be in a paragraph separate from the sentence regarding cheating. Though a work produced by plagiarism may be easy to spot by many, in the opinion of some it has been exceedingly tough to convict for this offense. Heretofore, Honor Council trials have been hung up by the...

See Plagiarism, page 4

The Counting Crows played to a nearly packed house in Belk Arena Monday night. See reporter Matt Whited’s exclusive interview on page 2.

Class of 2005 welcomed

By NIPUI PAUL
Staff Writer

The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is excited about the class of 2005. Once again, it says it has managed to admit the most talented, diverse, carefully selected and all-around best class in its history. Over the past few years, Davidson has been slowly increasing its selectivity. Despite the fact that the newest class is one of the largest to enter Davidson, the percentage of students accepted out of all applicants has been diminishing steadily. Every new class that comes in is comprised of the best students in that applicant pool. The class has an almost even split of students from public and private schools, with the public schools winning by a tad. There is also the small percentage from parochial or foreign schools. The distribution of students from different states is more varied than usual—38 states and 16 foreign countries are represented. This year only 44% of freshmen came from the Southeast (19% from NC), the second largest group being from the Mid-Atlantic, with 21%. This year’s international population comprised 4% of the class, and represent countries such as Argentina, Bulgaria, Ghana, India, Japan, and Venezuela. Three quarters of the class graduated in the top 10% of their high school class. The top academic interests this year remain almost the same as last year. Nancy Cable, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, said...

See New students, page 4