guests from 6-40pm

Fraternities - Sororities - Clubs - Student Groups

Student Groups earn $1,000 - $2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfinder.com three-hour fundraising event.
No sales required.
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today!
Contact Campusfinder.com
at (888) 923-3238,
or visit www.campusfinder.com

THE

OPTICAL SHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A

By Witt Parker
Special Contributor

After weeks of touting its ambitious “Plan for the Year,” the Honor Council has assembled the leadership team that will
put the plan into action. Five Council members—three juniors and two sophomores—will chair the Council’s newly established committees, four of
which are part of the recently chartered student organization “Committee to Promote the Honor Code.”

Phil Reed ’02 will chair the Outreach Committee. Likely to be the largest committee, the Outreach group will conduct sessions
for groups that aim to increase understanding and spur discussion of Davidson’s Honor Code.

Heading up the Rededication Day Committee is Jeffrey Cone ’02. The Rededication Day team will sponsor a day each semester
to focus campus attention on Honor Code matters, scrutinizing day-to-day expressions of the Honor Code and ‘bigger-picture’ issues alike.

Erin Bailey ’02 will lead the Public Relations committee. Charged with developing a website and coordinating student media relations, the
PR group will develop ways to enhance the Honor Council’s relationships with its various constituencies.

Ian Willoughby ’03 will head up the Publications Committee, which will develop all Council publications. Focusing on specific guides for
faculty, staff, students, and prospective students will be the committee’s top priority, but it will also serve as a resource
to the Council’s other committees.

Finally, Rebecca Rigel ’03 will serve as chair for the Council’s Internal Operations group. This committee will provide administrative support
to the Council’s normal workings, including coordinating training, recognition, and resources for Council members.

Students, faculty, or staff interested in participating with one of the Council’s promotional committees should contact Public Relations chair Erin
Bailey at erbailey@davidson.edu.

THE STUDENT BODY

ANONYMOUS

Weed... what a subject to write about. I’m going to be totally honest and tell everyone here at Davidson College
that speaking “in terms of morals,” getting drunk down at Patterson Court or in your rooms is just as “bad”
as smoking a joint. I really don’t think there’s anything wrong in taking a few hits to relax every once
in a while. Now that’s my opinion. I know there are many of you out there that disagree, and that’s
fine too. We have something called a legal system here to back you up.

Having all that out on the floor, I want to write this article to the smokers. Not just those who
smoke every once in a while, but especially to those who smoke daily. I know many of you will read
this and just blow it off. But then I know there are many of you who do smoke, but want
to quit. Weed, just like any other substance, can be very addictive! And just like any other addiction, you really
can’t fully depend on yourself if you can’t resist the temptation to get high. I started realizing this fact about
four months ago. Although I was forced to quit, looking in hindsight, I’m glad I was. Little things in my
life and routine have changed which allow me to concentrate on more important factors of my life. For example, one
thing I’m really glad I don’t have to worry about anymore is the risk of getting caught. I know this
is the biggest fear for anyone who smokes weed. The hassles of opening up that window and sticking a towel
under the door before you smoke a joint or hit a pipe, and then having to worry about whether someone
on your hall will smell the smoke and report you to Campus Police. Is it really worth it to jeopardize
a promising future for something so petty? I don’t think so.

If legal authority doesn’t make you want to quit, then why not quit for yourself? When I smoked, I thought
I could study while I was high. I thought that smoking weed made me think better, analyzing and thinking every
little detail over and over again. NOT true. It took more time to figure out the same amount of information
when I was high than when I’m sober. And after about 5 minutes, I forgot half the stuff I was
studying. Being sober, I comprehend and remember much more information. Smoking weed doesn’t make you any smarter, and trading your
mind and your memory for a high just isn’t worth it.

My diet has also improved. Any person who smokes is no stranger to the munchies. And you may not think
your diet is a big thing, but when you do quit smoking, you realize how much better you feel physically.
I reduced those late-night meals and —

Finally, something else I notice about myself is my change in al
