The Davidsonian

Men’s soccer ends season on sour note
Wildcats fall to Georgia Southern, 2-1, in first round of SoCon tourney
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer season came to an end two weeks ago when the Wildcats dropped a 2-1 decision to the
Georgia Southern Eagles in the opening game of the Southern Conference Tournament. Facing the Eagles for the second time in
six days, the first being a 4-2 Davidson victory, the ’Cats were unable to capitalize on several scoring opportunities in
the first half and went into the break trailing 1-0.

“We had several chances to go up in the first half,” commented head coach Matt Spear, “but they were able
to hold us off the scoreboard despite very clear chances on goal. Their keeper made some big saves throughout the
match, but, more importantly, his teammates cleared several balls off the line.”

Georgia Southern increased its lead to two goals late in the second half, but Davidson countered minutes later when senior
midfielder Erik Ozimek scored off a cross from fellow senior Derek Kilburn to make it a 2-1 game. Unfortunately, the
Wildcats were held at bay for the remainder of the match, as the Eagles keeper notched nine saves to preserve
the win.

“It’s difficult to beat the same team twice in six days,” added Spear. “Georgia Southern played far better than they
did last Saturday. They showed a lot more passion, confidence and spirit. In a tournament situation anything can happen, and
Georgia Southern proved that. I tip my hat to them.”

With the loss ends the career of the eight seniors on the squad, a talented group of players who led
Davidson to a 22-16-1 mark in SoCon play over the past four years and two second-place finishes in the conference.

“This group of seniors has been a tremendous pleasure to coach in my first season here at Davidson,” said Spear.
“They have returned this program to its rightful place of recognition on both the regional and national soccer maps.”

Several Wildcats were recognized for their performances this season—three Davidson players earned first team All-Conference and another received second team
honors. First team selections were: senior Chris Norbet, the SoCon scoring leader with 42 points (19g, 4a), Ozimek, a repeat
selection from last year, and sophomore defender David Peoples. Additionally, senior co-captain Derek Kilburn was awarded second team honors for
his strong defensive play this season.

Coach Spear best summarized the 2001 Wildcat season, “This season, despite the early exit in the Southern Conference Tournament, was
definitely a success. The record was 11-8 and last season was 11-8-1. A winning record against our level of NCAA
Division I competition is excellent.”

Wildcat wrestlers conclude exhausting month
By AMANDA MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team had a lot to be thankful for this Thanksgiving. After two highly competitive invitationals, the squad
is causing a stir. On Nov. 17, the three senior Wildcats dominated at the Old Dominion Invitational, reaching the finals
in each of their weight divisions.

In the 157-pound bracket, senior Jeff Bender beat his competition from Shippensburg University 2-1 in the first round. He then
excelled in an overtime ride out against Andy Martin of TCC-Norfolk to capture the title. Senior Jeff Libersat, in the
184-pound bracket, received a first-round bye before trouncing Shelley Wertz of Shippensburg, 15-4, to make it to the finals.

Fellow senior Ryan Owens (141 pounds) narrowly beat an opponent in the first round overtime competition, before upsetting the top
seed Blake Romano of Old Dominion, 11-7 to enter the final. In the championship match, however, Shippensburg’s Jason Zinn defeated
Owens 14-7 for the title. In their respective brackets, sophomores Adam Sperling (149) and Mark O'Hair (165) finished fourth.

Back on the mats the following weekend, seven Wildcats competed in the Carolina Open, notching several key wins. In the
wrestlebacks, Bender beat Keith Ritter of UNC-Greensboro 5-4 before losing to Louis DeMarco of UNC-Pembroke 7-3. Libersat picked up a
pair of victories in the wrestlebacks, most notably an 11-2 decision over Pembroke’s Chad Malone. Also competing at Chapel Hill
were Owens.

The Davidson volleyball team capped off its season with a disappointing loss to Chattanooga in the Southern Conference championship tournament
at UNC-Greensboro, but not before upsetting Western Carolina the day before.

In the first round, the sixth-seeded Wildcats (15-17) knew they would face a challenge in the third-seeded Western Carolina Catamounts.
In the season’s two previous meetings, Western Carolina swept Davidson in each match. The third meeting was a different story,
as the Wildcats utilized a team effort to win, 30-23, 18-30, 30-25, and 30-26. The win was Davidson’s fourth in
a row and the team’s momentum was evident from the start. The Wildcats won seven of the first ten points.
A Latisha Chapman block provided a large cushion at 13-5, all the team needed to take Game 1.

The teams exchanged wins in the second and third games, but Davidson stormed back in Game 4 after trailing 14-7
to take a 15-14 lead and leave no doubt that a Game 5 would not be necessary. With eight consecutive
points on Jacqueline Ortega’s serve, the Wildcats extended their lead. Ortega finished with 18 kills, including the game-ending shot. Roberta
Quis led the team with 20 kills, and freshman Kristin Higbee tallied 16 digs.

The exhilarating win on Friday left the Wildcats in a strong position to reach the championship game, as they faced
seventh-seeded Chattanooga the next night. The upset-minded Mocs, however, dashed the Wildcat hopes of a third consecutive SoCon championship with
a 26-30, 30-20,30-20, and 30-24 victory. Davidson took a 9-4 lead in Game 4 and hoped to force a fifth
game, but the Mocs battled to take the lead at 16-15 and never looked back. Four of the teams we
lost to are in the NCAA Tournament. And 11 wins is the most since 1995, while 8 losses is the
least since 1992. Two good seasons in a row is establishing a winning mentality and furthering our tradition.”

Sperling, as well as sophomores Charles Washington (125) and Mo Idlibi (165), summed up the two competitions: “I believe that
the last two tournaments provided us with some needed mat time that will help us get ready for our conference
schedule, and that’s the schedule we care about the most.” Co-captain Bender agrees, “I’m very optimistic. We struggled a lot
this past weekend at Carolina, but we have a team of guys who are willing to improve. We expected to
place a few wrestlers on Saturday, and we didn’t, and, yes, we’re very disappointed. But we’re hungry.”

Jacqueline Ortega led all players with 22 kills and recorded a double-double (13 kills, 11 digs). Having finished their tournament
competition, Davidson’s first official match is at Belk Arena against the Georgia Southern Eagles. The Eagles defeated Chattanooga in the
conference championship game on November 18.

DAVIDSON 81, Jacksonville Univ. 43

DAVIDSON (Nov. 17)—Fresh off an inspiring performance at the Army Tip-Off Classic, the Wildcats returned home and rolled past Jacksonville
University for an 81-43 home-opening victory. Three ’Cats—Janna Magette, Lindsay Shade, and Meghan Bryant—posted 12-point games, and Davidson forced 41
Jacksonville turnovers to carry a 2-1 record into Thanksgiving. Freshman guard Joy Newsome added 11 points and grabbed three rebounds.
Shade, again, sparkled, converting all four of her field-goal attempts (all three-pointers) and adding 5 assists in just fourteen minutes.
Sophomore forward Robyn Flewelling dished out a career-and game-best nine assists, and Courtney Laird grabbed six rebounds. Davidson’s 26:12 assist-to-turnover
tally was easily the best in over a year—only twice in the past year had Davidson even managed a 1:1
ratio (Friday against Army, and Nov. 29, 2000 against Gardner-Webb). For the third consecutive game, nine different Wildcats saw double-digit
floor minutes.

Mike Anderson

DAVIDSON 58, #9 Duke University 107

DURHAM, NC (Nov. 24)—Throughout the first round of Duke’s Basketball Classic, fans in the Cameron Indoor Stadium could hear Davidson
head coach Annette Watts scream, “Hustle every time!” as her Wildcats fought No. 9 Duke University. “That was our game
plan,” remarked Watts after the game, “to play hard.” Play hard and tough they did, from start to finish. Diving
for loose balls, bending down one extra inch on defense, never doubting their ability to perform at the top level,
the Wildcats played with true heart. However, Duke’s near-perfect shooting, finishing, and fast break abilities proved too much as Davidson
fell 107-58. Duke’s trapping man-to-man defense and sophomore phenomenon Alana Beard’s never-ending arms forced 27 Davidson turnovers that converted into
35 Duke points and did not allow Davidson to score until the fifteen-minute mark of the first half, when a
three-pointer by sophomore point guard Lindsay Shade ended the drought. However, Davidson played some fierce defense of its own—mixing zone
and man defenses to force 21 Duke turnovers. “We did some nice things offensively despite Duke’s pressure,” Shade noted. And
the Wildcats shot a remarkable 85% from the free throw line. Senior guard Janna Magette, who scored a game-high 25
points, said afterwards, “We had a blast. We'd all go another half, because this is exactly why you play the
game—this atmosphere, this game, these fans, this stadium.”

Erin Delk

DAVIDSON 63, Univ. of Missouri 101

DURHAM, NC (November 25)—Davidson fell to the University of Missouri 101-63 on Sunday in the consolation game of the Duke
Basketball Classic. An all-too-familiar sluggish start got things off on the wrong foot, and Davidson didn’t score a basket for
eight minutes. A high-pressure man-to-man Mizzou defense forced Davidson to shoot from the perimeter and kept the ’Cats off the
offensive boards. “We’re just not used to such big teams,” remarked senior captain Bethany Schott. “And we’re missing a huge
rebounder in Kelly,” referring to senior captain Kelly Copland, last year’s top rebounder, who tore her ACL against Army last
week. Sophomore forward Courtney Laird also lamented the absence of Copland, “Kelly is huge for us, not just statistically, but
mentally. No one can fill her shoes, so everyone has to step up.”

Janna Magette paced Davidson with 19 points, but fell victim to early trouble against Missouri’s athletic guards, picking up her
third foul just 12 minutes into the contest. Foul troubles across the board for the Wildcats translated into 20 free-throw
attempts for Missouri in the first half, and the Tigers retreated to the halftime locker room with a 13-point advantage.
Missouri immediately sank a three to open the second half, but Magette answered with a long-range jumper of her own.
Davidson would battle throughout the half, as Magette’s hustle and freshman guard Joy Newsome’s athleticism kept the ’Cats alive. But
Missouri’s efficiency at the line and in the paint overwhelmed Davidson, and the Tigers pulled away in the middle of
the second half. “Getting down sixteen points in the beginning, and then committing so many fouls in transition dug us
into a hole,” said Ashley Hallsted. “This is a much more disappointing loss because they aren’t 38 points better than
us, and we could’ve taken it from them.”

Erin Delk
