Track and field finishes eighth, App. State crowned track champ
By Derek SMITH
Davidson S.I.D.

The Davidson men’s track and field team finished eighth at the 2001 Southern Conference Championships that concluded on April 21
at the Read Track Complex on the VMI campus in Lexington, Va. The Appalachian State Mountaineers totaled 221 points to
outdistance second place Western Carolina which had 156 points. The championship was ASU’s first in outdoor track since 1996. This
marked the first time that VMI, which finished third with 155 points, had failed to win a SoCon track championship
that it had hosted.

Appalachian State’s Ben Bissette was named the men's Most Outstanding Performer. Appalachian State’s John Weaver was named the men’s coach
of the year and The Citadel’s Nick McNeil was the freshman of the year after posting a second place finish
in the hammer and taking third in the discus.

The Wildcats earned a total of 14 points which placed them eighth in the 10-team field. Sophomore Jimmy Swansbrough was
the man of the weekend for Davidson. He finished sixth in the steeplechase with a time of 9:32.56. He followed
that up with a fifth-place finish in the 1,500 meters with a performance of 3:57.73.

In addition to the two top-eight performances by Swansbrough, the Wildcats picked up points in the 4x400 and 4x100 meter
relays. The Wildcats finished fifth in the 4x100 (:44.19) and sixth in the 4x400 (3:22.69).

Meanwhile, the Davidson women’s track and field team finished eighth at the Championships. The Western Carolina Catamount women won their
third straight outdoor title with 230.5 points while Appalachian State was second with 170. There was a tie for the
Most Outstanding Performer award on the women’s side with Chattanooga’s Tyleana Hanner and Western Carolina’s Virginia LaCombe tying for the
honor. Hanner won the long jump and set a meet record in the heptathlon while also finishing third in the
triple jump and fourth in the high jump. LaCombe won the high jump with a meet record 5-9.75 while also
finishing second in the heptathlon, third in the 110 hurdles and fourth in the triple jump.

Western Carolina’s Danny Williamson was the women’s coach of the year and Chattanooga’s Oddbjorg Haugen was the Freshman of the
year after winning the 5000 meters and finishing second in the 3000 meters.

The Wildcats earned a total of 22 points which placed them eighth in the 10-team field. Freshman Amanda Yeck finished
eighth in the high jump as she cleared 4' 11.75". Sophomore Liz Gross finished seventh in the 800 meters in
a time of 2:20.79. Freshman Melissa Millar lowered her school record in the 400 hurdles to 1:03.83 as she captured
third in that event. The Wildcats also picked up points in the relay events. They finished sixth in the 4x400
(4:03.12). Davidson also finished seventh in the 4x100 (:51.80).Information Department, here are the results of the Southern Conference Track &
Field Championships from VMI, and the SoCon Tennis Championships, hosted by Charleston, S.C.

Men’s and women’s tennis teams fall in quarterfinals
By Mike CLARK
Davidson S.I.D.

CHARLESTON, S.C. — For the second consecutive year, Davidson and UNC Greensboro squared off in men's tennis in the quarterfinals
of the Southern Conference Tournament, but this year the Spartans prevailed, 4-0. The seventh-seeded Wildcats finish the year 12-11 overall.

In doubles, the Spartans took the number one and three contests for an early 1-0 lead. Junior Chad Winebarger and
freshman Rob Gould notched an 8-6 victory at number two doubles for the 'Cats. Seniors Whit Hansen and Billy Boykin
(#1) fell in a tie-break to Tony Mulé and Marcio Torres. The top four singles matches all went to three
sets, but three of those contests did not have a chance to finish because UNCG clinched the team victory with
wins at number four, five, and six. Last year, Davidson upset the then third-seeded Spartans in the quarterfinals of the
SoCon Tournament, 4-2.

In the first round of the Southern Conference Tournament, the men defeated the host Bulldogs of The Citadel, 4-2. The
Citadel opened the match by taking the top two doubles contests for an early 1-0 lead. Junior David Webb and
freshman Rob Haywood (#3) were the sole victors for Davidson, winning 8-2 over John Dougherty and Tuck Dieter.

In singles, the Wildcats had to claw through three three-set matches to overtake The Citadel for the victory. Senior Whit
Hansen (#1) bounced back after dropping set one, 6-1, to notch his 11th singles win of the season. Webb (#5)
and senior Chad Phillips (#4) each lost the second set of their respective matches, but both prevailed in the final
set. At number two singles, senior Billy Boykin cruised to a 6-4, 6-1 victory over Eddie Almada.

The women’s team lost 4-0 to the College of Charleston in the quarterfinals of the tournament. The seventh-seeded Wildcats finished
the year 8-13. Host College of Charleston advanced to the championship match only to lose to Furman. The College of
Charleston quickly jumped ahead of Davidson by grabbing the top two doubles matches. Freshmen Lindsay Offutt and Katherine Hatch were
ahead 7-3 at number three doubles when the doubles point was decided. In singles, the Cougars took the number two,
three, and five contests easily in straight sets to earn the team victory. Offutt (#1), Hatch (#6), and junior Kelley
Cantrell (#4) were all involved in tight first sets, but did not have a chance to complete their contests. All-time
against the College of Charleston in women's tennis, Davidson is 0-14.

The team opened the Southern Conference Tournament with a first-round win over Western Carolina, 6-0. All three Wildcat doubles teams
picked up victories to give Davidson an early lead. Freshmen Lindsay Offutt and Katherine Hatch (#3) teamed up for their
third straight win, prevailing 8-2 over Amy Rex and Kristin Munn. Davidson pounced on Western Carolina in singles, taking all
five completed matches in straight sets. Sophomore Gayle Jones (#5) was ahead 6-2, 4-2 when the contest was halted.
