Construction woes continue to delay completion of

By Matt GARFIELD
Sports Editor

Completion of the Knobloch Campus Center won’t officially take place for several months, but officials hope to make at least
part of the center available to students by May 11.

The center’s 600-seat amphitheater will not be completed until September, so the school plans to open only the Union in
time for exam week.

A formal ceremony to christen the center is slated for Homecoming Weekend on September 14. But in an effort to
allow seniors to utilize the center before they graduate, the school will have what president Bobby Vagt calls a “campus
opening” just before exams begin, which is about a month later than officials had hoped.

Vagt said the center’s workout rooms and food and socializing areas will be available for students to use.

The delay of theater completion resulted largely because of problems acquiring structural steel that will house the amphitheater. Delivery of
the steel came later than expected, and in a sort of domino effect, made it impossible to make progress on
other parts of the center.

“We’re running behind,” remarked Physical Plant Director David Holthouser. “It’s a real struggle.”

Without the steel in place, workers were not able to pour the concrete floor of the theater. That, in turn,
delayed work on Knobloch’s mechanical systems, including heating and air conditioning, which are located underneath the theater.

Vagt said issues with building safety standards, which must be approved by the N.C. Department of Health, also posed a
challenge. He indicated that there was no one specific problem, but rather “a whole combination of little things.”

“This is a very complex project,” Holthouser commented. “Building a theater is not building a square box. It is full
of odd shapes and sizes.... It’s a difficult project.”

“On a daily basis we’re faced with a multitude of challenges.”

The construction team is now working seven days a week, using the weekends as “make-up time” noted Holthouser.

“Time is certainly a pressure.” “But [having] a facility that works... that’s the real pressure.”

The center is being built out of what once was Johnston Gym, home to Davidson’s men’s basketball team before it
moved to Belk Arena in 1989. Renovations began in October 1999. The center was originally slated to open this month.

Preserving the storied heritage of the old gymnasium—including its original wooden roof—was a high priority during planning stages.

The roof, however, did not comply with North Carolina fire safety standards. Unable to strike a compromise with state officials
that would have allowed the school to keep it, Vagt and campus leaders decided last May to install a metal
roof, costing roughly $200,000 and delaying completion for two months, estimated Holthouser.

Vagt speculated that the center would have opened on time if not for the roof complications.

Knobloch construction has attracted the most attention on campus, but work is also beginning on several other projects, including telecommunications
and water systems.

Holthouser says the good economy makes history to the 1950s, when several dormitories were built.

“There’s a tempest of activity going on,” he said.

Voting,

from page 1

senators. The system will contain a safeguard against accidentally voting for too many candidates. The program records the order in
which a voter casts his or her choices. Any votes cast above the limit will not count. The system is
incapable of allowing students to vote for only certain offices. Therefore, students will technically be able to cast votes in
elections for which they are ineligible. John Casey, Executive Director and Professor of ITS does not anticipate this becoming a
problem. “The assumption is that students will be honorable and not vote in elections they shouldn’t,” he reasoned.

The voting results will be available immediately after election officials close the website, and since all tabulation is automatic, there
should not be any margin of error. Advocates of this program assert that it should prove to be invaluable to
the entire community. Casey anticipates that faculty and student groups will be able to use it for polling and voting
purposes separate from the semi-annual elections.

Thanks to the new system, said Pittenger, “There’s no reason why every student shouldn’t have a vote.”

Want to strike it rich?

The Davidsonian is seeking students to work in Business and Advertising.

All positions paid.
For more information contact

Peter Clark x5218 or Dave Johnston x5607

We've done more than just change our name. At Accenture, we're building a completely new network of businesses that will
influence the shape of the new economy. This presents new and exciting challenges for our employees, with ever-expanding career options.
There has never been a better time to be part of

ACCENTURE STUDENT LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

* New leadership development opportunity for rising seniors
* Deadline to submit resume online via JobTrak is February 2
* Contact your career services office or call John Hutto, Conference Coordinator, at (800) 776-6411 for additional information

Visit campusconnection.accenture.com

* Consulting * Technology * Outsourcing * Alliances * Venture Capital
Accenture was formerly known as Andersen Consulting

our dynamic global force as we bring innovations to improve the way the world works and lives.

With our unique vantage point between what is and what will be, there are unprecedented opportunities to work with today’s
leaders and help create the leaders of tomorrow. And these opportunities are greatly enhanced by a truly creative, collaborative and
diverse environment, one which encourages the continual development of skills and careers.

For those who want to create the future, now is the time to be at Accenture.

{Why change your name if it's the only thing you change?}
