aslavien from page 1

process of determining the intent of the accused. The changes are helpful, according to Parker, because “how can we tell
intent, and to what extent does intent translate into guilt?” In other words, the new wording would not excuse egregious
examples of plagiarism, no matter the intent. The new definitions attempt to say that, no matter what the accused’s intent,
certain cases — that is, those that include “unreasonable negligence” — are clear cases of plagiarism.

For example, under the current system, a student could steal a chapter from a Tom Wolfe book in an attempt
to impress his teacher with his intelligent social criticism. If that teacher elects to prosecute him, it could be hard
to convict. The student could testify that he did not intend to plagiarize — indeed, he could say that it
was simply an honest mistake. Though there is no mention in the Honor Code about whether the Honor Council is
to judge with intent in mind, it admittedly would be hard to convict a student if he insists he did
not know what he was doing. If the system is modified as suggested, the student could insist that he did
not intend to copy from Tom Wolfe, but the Honor Council would be required to convict him. Certainly, stealing an
entire chapter from any work would most certainly qualify as an act of “unreasonable negligence.”

Of course, it will always be up to the Honor Council to decide what constitutes “unreasonable negligence,” just as it
is currently their prerogative to decide to what degree intent matters. The current proposal seems to have spiked the faculty
coffeemaker with some strong opinions. Electronic mail discussions among faculty members have reached dizzying proportions. “All faculty,” explained Dr. Sally
McMillen, professor of history, “are recognizing the need to be vigilant about plagiarism” — and consequently, they are taking a
very active role in campus discussions on this issue.

Perhaps the most contentious point with the wording of the proposal is the whole concept of “unreasonable negligence.” Dr. Susan
Roberts, a professor of political science, stated: “Many faculty are, and students should be, perplexed as to what is meant
by ‘unreasonable negligence.’ Does that imply ascertaining what is and what is not ‘reasonable negligence?’” Indeed, such questions will be
addressed at the meeting tomorrow.

This year could be a very important year for the Honor Code, because, according to Parker, other issues could be
up for discussion. “In the future we will wrestle over what ‘unreasonable’ means,” he predicted. Further, the unrelated issue of
what constitutes the “counsel” that is allowed during Honor trials will likely be examined.

“Cheating includes plagiarism, which is representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” ~ current wording

“Plagiarizing, whether intentional or by means of unreasonable negligence, IS representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” ~ proposed
wording

Four public forums concerning the Honor Code are scheduled for this year. The forum tomorrow is the first time that
students will be asked for input on the issue of plagiarism. This year’s Honor Council leadership feels strongly that students
should be included, because, in Anderson’s words, the Honor Code “belongs to all students... For a long time, these debates
circled about Honor Council meetings, faculty meetings, and casual conversations all around campus. With this new process, we’re seeking to
channel all those opinions into a coherent, policy-formulating process.”

Even though the future look of the Honor Code is murky at this point, it is quite clear that the
faculty is divided on the issue. Phil Reed ’02, member of the Honor Council, stated: “That there is disagreement among
the faculty about this issue should be without doubt.” In Reed’s opinion, the current proposal for a revised Honor Code
is an amendment that seeks to “reconcile all of the faculty.” He said that it “should not be surprising... that
our solution is disputable.” The public forums are designed to allow for student input as well, which, in reality, could
swing campus momentum one way or the other.Change would be made in the hope that "the Honor Code will be
both more fair and more effective in its everyday but profound use at Davidson College."

Outpost from page 3

Of the groups that were granted the house, although CCRL, the advisory committee to President Vagt, gave DIA its approval
for the house, Vagt was unsure if DIA had a proven need for the house. Vagt said that he wanted
to “respect the things DIA wants to do, while acknowledging that these things haven’t been done yet,” but hopes and
believes that DIA will need and use the house frequently. In the meantime, anyone can book the house for events.

When asked what the plans for the Outpost are for the year, William Brown, the Director of the Union, said,
“I understand that DIA is going to use the Outpost heavily — but it is available to other groups.” DIA
has, in the meantime, booked the Outpost for most of the semester and plans to use the house as much
as possible. DIA president Carlos Carreras ‘01 commented, “The Outpost has long been an important activities center for DIA, and
now that we have it three nights a week we intend, among others, to offer an interesting social alternative to
the campus, an alternative guided by a spirit of commitment to international awareness.”

As of last week, the Outpost food is available in the Union Café. (And yes, the quesadillas are available now.)
The café is open the same hours that the Outpost used to keep for four nights a week, although the
grill closes a half hour earlier. Fears that the Outpost would not be as successful in the Union were dispelled
last weekend. The café was crowded until very late, reported William Brown, although the atmosphere was noticeably quieter than the
Outpost used to be.

Student opinion still favors the Outpost remaining a late-night café. Charles Lea ‘03, who once worked for the Outpost, reflected,
“Like most students, I wish the Outpost was still here. There’s something about dim lights, overpriced quesadillas, and a room
overcrowded with restless partygoers. The Union Café doesn’t have this atmosphere—it doesn’t even serve grill items past 11 pm.” There
is also the feeling that the Union doesn’t provide the same post-party atmosphere as the Outpost. Some students believe the
bright lights and underlying presence of the administration dissuade people from going to get food after a rowdy party.

Many students still hold the hope that the Outpost might be brought back at the end of the year, but
as of now, the building will play host to DIA and other organizations in need of a friendly, inclusive place
to hold events. Whether this arrangement is permanent remains to be seen.

One Norman Blvd. Exit 28, Cornelius (in front of Bilo)

VISIT OUR NEWEST LOCATION! Inside the YMCA lobby, Davidson.

Bring in this coupon and receive any smoothie for only $2.75!

The Peace Corps. Redefining the world.

New students from page 1

She expects these interests to change—especially given that the top two choices were Biology and Pre-Med. The new freshman class
has an interesting mix of students. There is the professional actress and the award-winning photographer, the blues singer who is
also the only woman on the Ultimate Ski Team in Vermont, the football player who doubles as a Shakespearian actor,
the weaver, the African drummer, and the official English bell-ringer. And, of course, the student with the tattoo of a
Celtic Wildcat. Over half the class lettered in or played a varsity sport, and most of the class did some
sort of volunteer work. Over half of the new freshmen have gone abroad for mission work.

So, welcome Class of 2005! Enjoy your ‘most talented’ status while it lasts—the class of 2006 will be here soon
enough. Davidson College, are you ready?

The Peace Corps will be on campus this September. Come to the information session to learn about the international opportunities
available to Volunteers and how YOU can begin the toughest job you'll ever love.

Wednesday, September 12th
7 p.m.
Alvarez College Union
