THE Davidsonian | Bookstore to emerge from the depths

By Colin EAGAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson College bookstore will turn another page in its history this spring. Escaping from its current location in the
windowless basement of Grey Union, the store will relocate to the second floor of the new Knobloch Campus Center, where
it will enjoy a prime location in the bright, atrium-like atmosphere of the new building. With a full move scheduled
to take place before May 17 graduation, anticipation builds on campus for this much-awaited transformation.

Designed by the firm of Kremer, Shipp and Daggett, the new bookstore will sit on the north end of Knobloch,
overlooking the tennis courts. Though it exists currently only as drywall and concrete, a visitor can even now get a
feeling for the new store and its new features.

“We have the same amount of space as we have in the old store,” explained Bookstore Director Gwen Gardner, “but
it will be arranged much more efficiently.” Much of this efficiency will result from the new layout, which has been
streamlined and more precisely organized. Placement of all displays and shelves will be on castors, so that they can be
rearranged with ease. A large space toward the front of the store will be specifically dedicated to displays for temporary
items.

“We plan to use this as a space that can conform to various specific needs,” continued Gardner. “For instance, we
might remove all the shelves there and hold a book signing at times, or move in more clothing on Alumni
or Parent’s weekend.” Students will be excited to learn that this space will also be converted to shelving for textbooks
during buying time at the beginning of each semester. According to Patsy Woods, Assistant Bookstore Manager and Textbook Coordinator, this
will make the books “self-serve.” As books come in, students will be able to look at them beforehand, and hopefully
will be able to get a better feeling for what courses have to offer. “I feel that our students will
like this process much better than the way we have to do now,” Woods commented.

The innovations continue. Thanks to service windows that open into the atrium interior of the Campus Center, students will be
able to return their hand-picked texts more efficiently at buy-back, avoiding the inevitable crowd that forms inside the store itself.
More space for leisure book displays has been set aside, and plans are in the works for a new children’s
reading area that can be used by younger members of the Davidson family and surrounding community. Benches and chairs throughout
the store should welcome curious book browsers who have previously been forced to stand or move on.

Architects designed the bookstore with key goals in mind. “We were really reacting against what they have now in the
basement,” said Bob Russ, project architect for the Knobloch Center. “We wanted to get the store out and into the
natural light.” The second-floor location is covered with windows on the northern side, allowing an excellent view of the tennis
courts and hills beyond. The southern side receives light from windows that adjoin the building’s atrium center. Air ducts in
the room will be exposed to raise the ceiling and create headroom, and office space has been minimized to allow
for as much floor space as possible. “It’s going to be a much warmer, more attractive space to work in,”
commented Russ.

And the location of the new store itself should be more attractive as well. The second floor, which has door
access at ground level on the west side of the Campus Center, will be home also to the copy center
and post office, setting the scene for a hub of activity. “It’s going to be a very lively space,” observed
Union Director William Brown. “Especially at peak post office hours. You will be able to get your mail, stop by
the bookstore, and go through to Baker without hitting any stairs.” As an ‘anchor tenant’ on the second floor, the
new store will be much more prominent on campus, a far cry from its current, removed location in the Union
basement. And moving up in the world brings various changes, as Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry pointed out: “This
new location should give

As a Davidson Fellow you will:
- Participate in quarterly in-service workshops with other Fellows
- Receive $500 per semester toward attendance at professional development conferences or classes related to your work
- Receive the benefits of full-time employment at Davidson College, including health, dental and life insurance
- Receive assistance in finding affordable housing options in the Davidson area (if available)

There are five positions available beginning this summer:
1. Reunion Coordinator - Alumni Relations
2. Evening Facilities Manager - College Union
3. Assistant to the Director - Davidson Athletic Foundation
4. Student Calling Program Coordinator - Annual Fund
5. Assistant to the Director - Bonner/Community Service

Application forms are available online. From the Davidson homepage, click on Business and Finance, then Human Resources, then HR Forms,
and under Employment Forms choose Employment Application. Application forms may be submitted in person, or by mail. Questions or need
more information?also be picked up at the Human Resources Office at Jackson Court #11. To apply, you may email your
information, apply at www.davidson.edu/administrative/human_resources/fellowspage.htm. Or call Ashleigh Justice at x2619, or email asjustice@davidson.edu. Deadline: Wednesday, February 7.

Enjoy one or two years of important and challenging work in higher education.

The Bookstore will have a much higher profile that makes it more accessible to students, alumni, and the general public.
We will have to adjust our way of doing business accordingly and reconsider our hours of operation as well as
how we use the entire union as a place where we can do business.

With completion of the new bookstore closing fast, students wait eagerly: “I can’t wait to shop there,” exclaimed Emily Einstein
’04. “It should be easier to find what I’m looking for!” “I’m really looking forward to using the new facilities,”
enthused an unusually excited Wes Barry ’02. “They should provide many new opportunities for the community.”

Others seem less optimistic. “Aw, the store is useless,” declared Hak Shin Park ’04. “They still won’t sell anything I
want. I mean, they have sweaters, man. Who needs sweaters?”

Perhaps it really is time to get out of the basement. In preparation for the move, bookstore workers are even
now labeling stock and back stock. Gardner wants to assure all students that even as the move takes place at
the end of the year, the current store will be open to buy back books and sell exam supplies. With
the hard work of a dedicated staff, the transition between facilities should be seamless. What’s epilogue for one bookstore is
now prologue for another.

Community hour proposal continues to gain momentum
By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Students and administrators expressed “cautious optimism” about the possibility of a weekly community hour after last week’s student presentation before
the Faculty Executive Committee. Four student leaders went before the FEC last Monday to make the case for a campus-wide
community hour. SGA President Dane Erickson ’01, Vice President Joey Harris ’02, Chancellor Beth Gardner ’03, and Polling and Response
Committee Chair Cader Howard ’02 submitted an SGA resolution and a student survey, conducted by Howard, at the committee meeting.
The resolution calls for a one-year trial of the proposed hour, after which time the idea can be assessed and
adjusted if necessary. The accompanying survey showed some statistics gathered from student respondents about the community hour idea (see table).
According to that poll, 71.1% of respondents indicated that they were in favor of a community hour. “I think there
is significant student support for the community hour,” concluded Howard.

The proposal currently under consideration by the FEC calls for one one-hour period each during the academic day on Tuesdays
and Thursdays. During these blocks, no classes or formal meetings would be held. Instead, students, faculty, and staff would have
the opportunity to participate in campus-wide programming, including guest speakers or discussions of campus issues. In order to accommodate the
community hour, however, the academic schedule for Tuesday and Thursday would have to undergo some revision. “There are ways of
producing the hour without limiting available class times,” explained Registrar Hansford Epes. The most likely plan involves starting the first
class on Tuesday and Thursday one-half hour early, shortening breaks between classes from 15 to 10 minutes, and ending the
academic day 10 or 15 minutes later.

Even with these adjustments, administrators are unsure about the impact of the hour on campus life. “There is a recognition
that there are costs and benefits [of the community hour],” remarked Vice President for Academic Affairs Clark Ross. Among these
concerns include extending the class day into extracurricular time and starting classes at 8:00 instead of 8:30 a.m. on Tuesdays
and Thursdays. “There’s a difference between listing classes at 8:00 and [students] taking classes at 8:00,” noted Epes. In addition,
questions remain about the content and cost of the programming planned for the community hour. Despite these doubts, Ross said
he remains “cautiously optimistic” about the prospects for the community hour. He indicated that the FEC had “responded with interest
to continued discussion and with sympathy towards the goal” of the proposal.

French Professor and FEC member Homer Sutton agreed. He described the student presentation as “persuasive.” Sutton added, “My reaction to
their presentation was favorable; subsequent discussion following the presentation in general was positive.” He also echoed the concerns about 8:00
a.m. classes and conflicts with extracurricular activities.

Erickson expressed the hope that the faculty would come to support the idea. “The faculty will make or break this
[proposal],” he asserted. He emphasized that even if the plan fails, in the long run, the knowledge gained from a
one-year trial could be invaluable to future efforts at community building. “Especially looking at [the community hour] in that light,
the benefits clearly outweigh the costs,” affirmed Erickson.

If this initiative is to succeed, however, the faculty will need to reach a decision soon. Epes stated that requests
for next fall’s course schedules are sent out to department chairs on February 7, after which faculty will have about
two weeks to finalize their plans. Should they agree to a trial period, they would need to decide in the
very near future. Remarked Erickson, “We’ve built up enough momentum with the poll, the resolution, and the articles in the
Davidsonian, that we feel the time is now.”
