This week RLO released their annual room lottery numbers, a subject of great concern to nearly all of the student
body (sorry seniors). Nothing so enlivens students’ hopes as the prospects of a bigger room, a better roommate, or both.
Demonstrating classic “herd mentality,” students rush to their computers to find out what numbers they have received, all the time
knowing that roughly half of them will be disappointed. Or to put it in different terms, assuming ignorance of anyone
else’s number, Sally Davidson can expect to be miffed at her “lousy lottery number” about half of the time. Which
is not to say that those with good lottery numbers have that much to look forward to either. They still
have to spend anywhere from thirty minutes to upwards of two hours standing in line in the gallery. Residence Life
could try to pass this off as their contribution to the “community building” problem, but I doubt that would make
much difference to the students. The experience of inching along a cattle chute of sorts, staring at the backs of
people’s heads, avoiding elbows, all to find out that, in fact, there are no rooms left below the fourth floor,
is enough to rule out the possibility of “group bonding.” Besides, the obvious, and only, topic of conversation in the
lottery line is who got which number. Once again, since about half the people will be feeling short-changed anyway, the
mere sight of those more fortunate ones does a number on morale, much less their half-hearted attempts at sympathy. “Well,
I’m sure you’ll get a better number next year...” Oh, really? In fact, the room lottery does not and cannot
guarantee parity. Assuming random assignment and no correlation between years, a student has a one in four chance of coming
up empty two out of three years and a one in eight chance of striking out his or her entire
time at Davidson.

Imagine if that were the case with class scheduling. There would almost certainly be a number of people who drew
the worst numbers every single year. No one could ever construct a useful schedule on that model, which is exactly
the reason why course lottery numbers are averaged out. It seems only reasonable to extend that system to the room
lottery. Moreover, there must be a better way to choose rooms than to force every participating student to be physically
present at the lottery. Again, borrowing from the course scheduling comparison, Davidson could certainly revert to an older model. The
registrar’s office could make students get up at some abysmal hour, crowd into Chambers, and stand in lines while watching
their preferred classes fill up before their eyes. Somewhere along the line, however, it became apparent that electronic scheduling saved
students and administrators a lot of time and hassle. While room assignments differ from course assignments in some significant ways,
the model should still apply. Why couldn’t students indicate their room preferences for the coming year, based either on floors
or on individual rooms, and then submit them to be worked out by a computer? At the very least, RLO
should consider breaking up the lottery into shorter shifts. Students would appreciate the extra study time, and RLO staff would
have an easier job of managing the herd. Technology is not the answer to every problem. But a little innovation
of the room lottery, along with parity across years, would be a big improvement. And for those still lurking under
the rafters or in the basement, take heart — at least you’re not stuck with my roommate.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson, Editors-in-chief
The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief: Aaron Houck, Richard Vinson
Business Managers: Peter Clark, David Johnston
Copy Editor: Anna Kyanvig
News Editors: Tim Cook, Jessica Mering
Advertising Managers: PeterClark David Johnston Matt Garfield Burgin opin http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Bush responsibly reforming the military
By JOHN PITTS
Columnist

George W. Bush is once again proving himself a proactive, reforming force in the national government. This week Bush’s administration
unveiled bold new plans to invigorate and modernize the military, reforms that are sorely needed after Clinton’s blatant negligence for
the maintenance of our nation’s armed forces.

Last week Bush asked Donald Rumsfeld, Secretary of Defense, to conduct a “top to bottom” evaluation of the military before
any substantial spending increases are put on the table. Bush foresees Rumsfeld being able to save billions by properly spending
the current budget, rather than throwing away more cash to supplement misspending by top brass.

Under Clinton, morale and officer retention rates reached an all-time low. Early last year, the army announced that they had
been forced to put 20,000 of their men on food stamps in order to meet their basic sustenance needs. Clinton
cut the size of the military by 30%, while increasing their deployment by 300%. Over-deployed and under-funded, the armed forces
were put in dangerous deployments that had no clear mission and no set exit strategy. (Think Bosnia and Somalia.) Americans
should be outraged that the men and women who willingly put their lives on the line to defend our freedom
are treated in such a maligned manner.

Bush is a shrewd crafter of policy and has recognized in the early going that throwing billions at the problem
will not solve the military’s issues. To truly reform the military a president must overcome enormous amounts of opposition. The
Pentagon has become adept over the years at entrenching its funding by spending more than needed, and wasting exorbitant amounts
of money on far-flung weapons testing. With defense manufacturers and rabid Congressmen from weapons industry-heavy states at their side, the
Pentagon has historically been able to extract exorbitant funding increases while protecting their testing programs from Congressional oversight.

In the meantime, Bush has introduced a $1.4 billion infusion to raise soldier salaries and build new troop housing. Morale
is sure to rise and the officer corps to become stable if they are provided proper wages and accommodation. Once
the Rumsfeld evaluation has been completed, in a few months' time, Bush has hinted at further, targeted spending increases for
needy causes.

Bush also suggested an overhaul of current military hardware, replacing antiquated weapons systems with new, top-of-the-line models. With these upgrades
and the implementation of a missile defense, it will not be long until the U.S. is once again on the
cutting edge.

During the campaign Bush promised a change in ideology concerning deployment. We should look forward to responsible deployments with clear
missions and set exit strategies. Bush’s strong message to Iraq this week embodies such reform. The United States will no
longer be toyed with by Saddam Hussein or trapped by our lack of vision.

The Bush Presidency promises to be the turning point for the military in the millennium. If his reforms are met
with success, morale raised, hardware upgraded, and the military’s mission redefined, the U.S. can be assured of maintaining its dominance
while regaining the spirit of purpose squandered during the Clinton years.

Are You Opinionated?
The Staff of The Davidsonian is seeking columnists to write for Perspectives. For more information, contact:
Mara Mordini at mamordini@davidson.edu or Amy Poe at ampoe@davidson.edu
