“By Emily Drew, Staff Writer

Ha Jin, an award-winning author from the Chinese mainland, is scheduled to present Davidson College’s McGaw Lecture Series. On Sept. 11, Jin spoke on “My Choice of Writing in English” at 7:30 PM in Love Auditorium. Tonight’s lecture, “The Writer as a Human Being,” will begin at 8:00 PM in the C. Shaw Smith Room of the Knobloch Campus Center.

Originally from a rural town in China, Ha Jin served in the People’s Liberation Army during the Cultural Revolution before enrolling in Heilongjiang University in 1977. There, he earned his B.A. in English in 1981, and his M.A. in American Literature two years later. In 1993, Ha Jin completed his Ph.D. in English at Brandeis University. After the Tiananmen Square Massacre, Jin settled in the U.S. as an exile.

Writing exclusively in English, Ha Jin has published three volumes of poetry, three books of short prose fiction, and two novels. His works include Waiting, the winner of the 1999 National Book Award, and short stories included in The Best American Short Stories, Pushcart Prize anthologies, The Norton Introduction to Fiction, and The Norton Introduction to Literature. Jin is also a recipient of The Flannery O’Connor Award for Short Fiction, and the PEN/Hemingway Award. He currently teaches creative writing and contemporary poetry at Emory University.

Ha Jin’s visit has been co-sponsored by the Public Lectures Committee and the Dean Rusk Program. Readings from his works accompanied last night’s talk, and will also be presented with tonight’s lecture.

Ha Jin, award-winning author.

Sutton moves to revitalize Dean Rusk Program

By EMMANUEL AMOS-ABANYIE, Special Contributor

Professor Homer Sutton is a man with the demeanor of a parson. Once, he was hardly known to students outside the French department. Today, he is a critical part of the Davidson community as the interim Director of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies. His appointment comes as a replacement for Ambassador Kenneth Brown, who left last spring to become President of the Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training in Arlington, VA.

A 1971 Davidson graduate, Sutton joined the French department in 1980. He has spent 12 years of his life abroad, primarily living in France. Sutton has whole-heartedly embraced his career at Davidson. He was on the original committee that helped set up the Dean Rusk Program in 1983, was study abroad coordinator from 1984-1994, and an interim Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid in 1991-92.

Unlike Brown, a diplomat and a member of the political science department, Sutton is with the French department. He hopes his unique perspective will help revitalize the Dean Rusk Program. Sutton wants the program to address questions of culture, civilization, and international politics. “I am excited about the speakers and events lined up for this fall, especially that on Contemporary Slavery by Kevin Bales scheduled for Wednesday [September 5],” he said.

Sutton does not want to overturn the work of his predecessors. Rather, he aspires to build on the foundation of the program as he stresses continuity with the past. “Both Kenneth Brown and Jack Perry put the program on a solid foundation and that makes it much easier for me,” Sutton said. He also points out that his staff members, Kathie Faulkner and Irene Middleton, do a fantastic job.

Though Sutton believes in continuity, he is quick to admit that there will be slight modifications in the program, as emphasis this year will be placed on foreign language and the cultural aspects of international studies. He has made provisions for faculty and staff to learn the Spanish language since Spanish is fast becoming an indispensable means of communication in America. His work is already evident with a new cable television in the international lounge that enables students to watch television programs of other countries and in different languages.

Sutton looks forward to working closely with the Student Advisory Committee, the Davidson International Association, and the Study Abroad Program for total internationalization of the campus. It is his dream to bring the program to the doorstep of every student. Nevertheless, he thinks that there will be challenges considering the range of campus activities going on at the same time. Another obstacle that will limit Sutton’s dreams is the relative lack of funding for programming. “I'd like to do more but our budget is not large enough to bring in some speakers we’d like to have,” he said. Despite these limitations, Sutton plans to address the needs of all students with quality programs.

Mildew torments Little halls, Residence Life”Staff By AMANDA PENNOCK Staff Writer

If you talk to any student living in Little dorm, you can probably uncover several horror stories about... mildew. The icky growth first became a problem for students during early Freshman Move-In on August 15, but now mold breakouts in Little Hall have disrupted life for the residents and caused many headaches for the Resident Life Office (RLO) in recent weeks.

So how did the problem start? According to the Area Coordinator for Little, Darin Morrow, once summer conferences ended all dorms were empty for a few weeks. The lack of body heat allowed the rooms to cool down to temperatures considerably below 70°F. As the summer’s heat seeped through the bricks of the building, moisture formed inside the building, creating a suitable environment for tenacious mold to grow on walls, ceilings, and window blinds.

Upon arriving on campus, Kim Newton ’05 and her roommate Kate Dahl ’05 of 2nd Little quickly discovered something had already taken up residency in their room: the infamous mildew. “The whole room was covered,” Newton said. She attributed the problem to their air conditioner — it wasn’t dehumidifying the air and “it felt like a tropical rainforest!” Morrow and his crew reacted immediately by “strategically placing” dehumidifiers around the building in an attempt to remove excess moisture and thus one of the major causes of the mildew problem. Amazingly, Newton’s dehumidifier filled its bucket with water from the air “within the first six hours.”

Morrow explained that problems began to appear on 1st Little within the next few days when the “Big Chiller” (the main A/C unit for Little) shut down for a few hours. In the most extreme cases, Little students were moved from their rooms, most often to stay with friends, so that the rooms’ surfaces could be cleaned with a chemical aptly named “Stronger than Bleach.” Upperclassmen were offered rooms at the Hampton Inn, and one of Sentelle’s lounges was permanently converted to a residence room for a pair of Little ladies. Luckily, “no one to [RLO’s] knowledge” reported any health problems due to the pesky lichens, Morrow said.

But the entire situation has been a frustrating one for Little residents. “There are girls on my hall - when they hang their towels up, there’s mold growing behind the towels,” Newton explained. “There’s just something not fun about climbing into your bed, and it’s damp.” Many of the girls in Little have begun wearing their shoes even when walking around their own rooms to keep their feet dry from the moisture that materializes on their floors. Besides the inconveniences of the mold itself, many residents are increasingly upset at the time it has taken to resolve even small problems through RLO. In order to get a dehumidifier or any other type of mildew control, Newton explained, work orders and other paperwork must be filled out for the school. Newton went on to say that while “RLO has been really willing to help [them], it’s just the whole system” that has slowed the process of getting Little Hall fungi-free.

In response, RLO Director Leslie Marsicano explained that there is no “quick fix” for the mildew problems, and that “when [RLO] could, we acted quickly.” RLO, in combination with the Physical Plant, has been contacting different universities that have had similar mold epidemics in their dormitories in an attempt to find a solution for the ongoing problems here at Davidson. Similarly, RLO has been looking into different paints and chemical cleaners that will hopefully rid Little of the mildew. Marsicano expressed gratitude for the patience of both the Little Hall residents and their parents in the past weeks. “I really appreciate the cooperative spirit of the women,” she said. “I know they are tired of it, and we are too.”

On September 12, RLO is hosting a pizza party complete with door prizes for all Little residents to thank them for their cooperation and to “boost them a little more,” Morrow said. As the weather cools, mildew problems should dissipate, but Marsicano stated that RLO plans to continue researching mildew growth and ways to combat it in order to be prepared for next summer. For now, Morrow suggested that it would be best for students in all residence halls to keep their windows closed and their air conditioners on in order to keep rooms cool and dry, thus preventing further mildew outbreaks.