Strange White Stripes found on new White Blood Cells
BY CHRIS SCHMADER
Special Contributor

The hallmark of popular music, the reason it remains endlessly entertaining as the years progress, is its remarkable variety of voices. Even MTV and the most dogmatic, hits-and-only-hits radio stations now play songs from a solid range of musical styles. These listening avenues, however, only represent the tip of the iceberg. Once you delve into online music publications, college radio, and sketchy local clubs like the Cat’s Cradle in Chapel Hill, the breadth of musical experience in the United States alone becomes apparent.

In recent years, Detroit has produced the White Stripes, a band that captures perfectly the idiosyncratic nature of rock’n’roll. Earlier this year, the Stripes released White Blood Cells, an album that takes one more step in consolidating their developing style, a raw form of ‘60s garage rock that sounds unique and fresh today. The White Stripes are comprised of guitarist/vocalist Jack White and drummer Meg White, his supposed-sister. (One more reason you shouldn’t believe everything you read: Meg is actually Jack’s ex-wife, but until recently they kept the press in the dark regarding their true relationship). They entitled their second album De Stijl, after a Dutch architectural style characterized by its simplicity. Considering Jack White’s stripped-down approach to songwriting and performing, it is an appropriate reference. Most photos of the band find them clad only in red and white, a move that further resonates with their band name and bare bones sound.

By now, the improbability and utter weirdness of this band should be plain to see, and once you listen to White Blood Cells, the White Stripes’ strangeness becomes an exhilarating fact. On tracks like “Dead Leaves on the Dirty Ground” and “Offend in Every Way,” the notes and chords erupt from Mr. White’s guitar in a bluesy, fuzzed-out snarl, while his voice alternates from gritty to gentle. Ms. White’s drumming remains locked into a minimalist pulse, giving the music weight and power that derive from its simple nature. These mid-tempo, pounding rockers are the norm on this album, but the band scatters divergences from this standard throughout the disc. “Hotel Yorba” bounces along with an insistent beat and a poppy acoustic melody. “Fell in Love With a Girl” moves so fast that it sounds close to punk, and the slow-cooker “The Union Forever” drops lines from Citizen Kane. In the end, though, the back-to-the-basics attitude of the band persists over the course of the consistently thrilling album, providing coherence and never failing to retain interest.

Despite its overall excellence, White Blood Cells sometimes takes the Stripes’ premise too far, as in the dirge-like “Expecting” and the seemingly tossed-off “Little Room.” These failures quickly recede, however, in light of the overall unity and forcefulness of the album. Jack White’s lyrical voice inhabits every song, his lines filled with innocent words that sound consciously chosen instead of the depressing navel-gazing and cynical hedonism of much other pop music. In “We’re Going to Be Friends,” he sings from the point of view of an elementary school student talking happily with one of his female classmates. And in “Hotel Yorba” he sings, “It might sound silly for me to think childish thoughts like these/ But I’m so tired of acting tough and I’m gonna do what I please.” The way he sings those lines makes it impossible to doubt his sincerity or the Stripes’ genuine love of rock’n’roll. Distinctive and passionate about their art, the White Stripes reward scouring of rock’s less familiar regions as they continue to be one more reason why popular music is such a blast.

North Carolina Writers’ Network honors college alumnus
PRESS RELEASE
College Communications

On Saturday afternoon, November 17, the North Carolina Writers’ Network will honor Charlotte’s Joe Martin for his unique contributions to North Carolina literature and to civic life in Charlotte. This event will take place as part of the NCWN’s seventeenth annual Fall Conference, Bridges, Not Boundaries: Building a Writing Community, at the Adam’s Mark Hotel in Charlotte, N.C., November 16-18, 2001. The conference offers all new workshops and roundtable panels on specific aspects of writing and selling fiction, non-fiction, and poetry.

For those in the Charlotte area, Joe Martin is a familiar figure. He may well be the best-loved figure in Charlotte. But for those from other parts of the state, Joe Martin may not be so well known. He is the author of two books. On Any Given Day, co-written with Ross Yockey, is the story of his battle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a motor neuron disease. His second book, Fire in the Rock, a novel about race relations in SouthCarolina during his childhood, was just published in October by Novello Festival Press. Pat Conroy has called it “a beautiful novel.” Joe has been an inspiration to thousands of readers, not only because of his books, but also because of his life-long battle for better relations between the races in the Carolinas and because of his heroic fight against ALS or Lou Gehrig’s Disease. A native of South Carolina and a graduate of Davidson College and Duke University, Martin came to Charlotte in 1973 to work for what was then NCNB. Under Martin’s leadership, the bank became much more involved with the African-American community than it had been previously. Martin pioneered low-interest loans to stimulate minority businesses. “He passionately believed the bank could be used to make the world a better place,” says his friend and colleague Dennis Rash. He also served on the Charlotte-Mecklenburg School Board during the 1980s under George Battle, now a Bishop in the African-American Methodist Church. In 1994 he was diagnosed with ALS and became determined to make the time he had left valuable. In 1997, when he received the Whitney Young Award for his contributions to racial harmony, he inaugurated the concept of “race day,” a day each week when people of different races or ethnic backgrounds would have lunch together. Together with his brother Jim, Governor of North Carolina from 1984-1992, Joe launched a drive to establish an ALS Treatment Center at Carolinas Medical Center, the first in this part of the country. By this time he had published a short story, “Sister Holy Ghost and the Fourth of July,” which became the first chapter of his novel; and he and Ross Yockey had begun On Any Given Day, composed largely on an eye gaze computer, which allows Joe to type by focusing his eyes on specific letters of the alphabet. With the help of novelist Ashley Warlick, who served as his editor, he then completed Fire in the Rock. Says Warlick, “I believe Joe comes from the same literary line as Walker Percy and Andre Dubus, gifted with a strong sense of what is fair and what is honest.” She calls working with him “an astonishing experience.” At lunch on November 17, Ross Yockey will read from On Any Given Day, and Ashley Warlick will read from Fire in the Rock. Each will talk briefly about Joe Martin and about working with him, and will sign books after the program. If Joe Martin is able, he will be there, at least briefly, to receive the appreciation of his readers. To learn more about this event and all the happenings at Fall Conference, or to learn more about the literary nonprofit North Carolina Writers’ Network, call NCWN at (919) 967-9540, or visit its website at www.ncwriters.org.

West Wing, HBO dominate the ’01 Emmys

DEREK LOH
Arts & Living Editor

While most televisions were tuned to Fox and the final game of this year’s World Series, CBS aired the 53rd annual prime time Emmy awards. Twice postponed for reasons relating to the terrorist attacks, the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences’ ceremony was broadcasted from the Shubert Theater in Los Angeles. Ellen DeGeneres hosted the show, and she even donned a swan dress, parodying Bjork’s getup at this year’s Oscars. DeGeneres also made a few references to the show’s rescheduling and the situation in Afghanistan: she joked, “I feel I’m in a unique position as host because, think about it, what would bug the Taliban more than seeing a gay woman in a suit surrounded by Jews? I like to do my part.”

NBC’s White House series “The West Wing” nabbed the Outstanding Drama Series Emmy, beating out HBO’s “The Sopranos” and NBC’s “ER” among others. “The West Wing”’s Bradley Whitford and Allison Janney also won in the supporting actor categories for drama.

“West Wing” named best drama series at Emmy’s

“The Sopranos” earned TV husband and wife James Gandolfini and Edie Falco lead acting honors (drama). Gandolfini beat out favorite Martin Sheen, "The West Wing”’s fictional president. Falco’s main competition was considered to be her costar, Lorraine Bracco. “Sex and the City” made history as it became the first cable program to be named Outstanding Comedy Series. Sarah Jessica Parker’s series triumphed over “Everybody Loves Raymond,” “Frasier,” “Malcolm in the Middle,” and “Will & Grace.” Up against favorites like Kelsey Grammer, John Lithgow, Ray Romano and the young Frankie Muniz, Eric McCormack from “Will & Grace” won for best actor in a comedy series. Patricia Heaton was singled out for her work on “Everybody Loves Raymond.” In the supporting actor/actress categories (comedy), Doris Roberts (“Everybody Loves Raymond”) and Peter MacNicol (“Ally McBeal”) took home Emmys.