TE DavIpsonIAN

Bennet, _ continued from prior page

a good anchor against that.

MH: Cool. I really like philosophy too. So where are you originally from?

TB: Orange County, Southern California.

MH: Did you live there just a little while or

TB: Man, it’s SUPER-home. When I graduate, I’m heading west. Not that I don’t like the east coast and Davidson...
sometimes it does seem a little “preppy” here, you know. I’m not Davidson’s poster boy but I am a pretty
big fan of the school.

MH: Do you have any siblings?

TB: Nope. Most people aren’t surprised when they find that out. (laughs) I used to love being alone because at
Christmas I got all the presents under the tree. Now I think it’d kinda be nice to have some brothers
and sisters.

MH: Huh, that’s funny. You always looked like the kind of guy who would have a younger sister or something.
What was your favorite game when you were a kid?

TB: GUNS!

MH: Excuse me?

TB: Do you know what that is?

MH: Not exactly.

TB: Well, when I was little, we used to have these huge wooden guns, and we’d go around in the
woods pretending that we had ammunition and we were blowing each other up. Good imaginative game; come to think of
it, it probably glorified war too much. Oh well.

MH: Did you ever watch Sesame Street?

TB: Not really. PBS never had anything for me. I liked Richard Scarry books and stories my dad made up
about bald eagles. I used to run around with my arms out, acting like I could fly and pretending I
was an eagle.

MH: Very imaginative.

TB: Yeah, and I still like to read Calvin and Hobbes and Richard Scarry.

MH: Calvin and Hobbes are the best!

TB: You’ve heard of them?

MH: Come on - are you kidding? Spaceman Spiff? He’s the bomb.

TB: Awesome. Any interviewer who’s heard of Calvin and Hobbes is high on my list.

MH: Who’s your favorite superhero?

TB: I really liked comic books growing up. Whoa. How do I answer? Can I pick two?

MH: If it would make it easier, by all means.

TB: Maybe I'll just pick elements that I like from different characters. For style, it would definitely be Gambit from
X-Men: his special power is taking cards and turning them into bombs. Very smooth. For sheer ferocity, I'd pick Wolverine.

MH: Excellent choices, both. If you could have any superhero power, what would it be?

TB: Such great questions! I would love to be able to teleport like Nightcrawler. It’s an all-in-one superpower.

MH: Well, here’s an off-the-wall question I’m sure you get all the time: where’d you get that red hair? Note:
Tom has got a huge shock of really red hair. Like electric red.

TB: My dad has black hair, and my mom’s is dark brown. I definitely have the brightest hair in the
family. You know, I kind of like it. It sets me apart. I’ve definitely made it a part of my
identity. I’ve felt like I sort of have to be an oddball because people expect it with this hair. And
I could never play capture-the-flag because people spotted me a mile away. I really love hair. I don’t understand why
girls chop it all off - hair is great! I want more of it! You can see that I’m growing
mine out right now (runs his hands through it)...

MH: Yeah, it’s gotten pretty long...

TB: I want it longer. Tons of powerful red hair. I think of myself as a walking gesture with this
ridiculous head of hair.

MH: I’ve been told my hate mail will increase exponentially when this interview is published - any idea why?

TB: (laughs nervously) Hate mail? Uh, I don’t have a clue. Probably because I'm Mustang... opinionated, loud, and obnoxious. But
you know what? I’m cool. You’re going to get FAN mail because of this. You’re going to become the most
popular writer on campus because you ask awesome questions and interview cool people - like myself.

MH: Thanks. What about a favorite item of clothing - do you have one?

TB: Ever seen my “Chicks Dig Pale Scrawny Guys” shirt? I love that. And my “Superman” tank top. It’s always
killed me how huge tan guys walk around wearing tank tops trying to show themselves off, so I give the
world the old one-two: I’m never going to be tan, with this pale skin, and you notice I’m not bulky,
so I try to psyche people out with the tank top.

MH: If you had to choose between standing on top of Chambers in your underwear or shaving your head, which
would you pick?

TB: I say screw respectability and go stand on Chambers. Of course, shaving my head isn’t really an option, because
my strength is multiplied in my hair. Hair equals power.

MH: Here’s a tough one: Delilahs or Generals?

TB: Generals, because that Sean O’Reilly guy has big hair.

MH: Window seat or aisle?

TB: I used to be a die-hard window seat person, but now I like the aisle. I want to be
able to take my skateboard and go down.

MH: Yeah, go knock out the flight attendants with their cart of goodies.

TB: Exactly!

MH: What’s the dumbest thing you’ve ever...done?

TB: (pause) I don’t do dumb stuff.

MH: Good answer. Who’s your favorite cartoon character?

TB: Donatello, from “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” - he’s really cool.

MH: What’s the worst driving experience you’ve ever had?

TB: Doing 120 on a toll road in my dad’s (stops). Oops.

MH: What?

TB: I just realized my parents will be reading this. Oh well, who cares. Go ahead and print it. Actually,
the cop was nice about it - he pulled me over and I broke into tears and showed him my
license. With a picture like mine, I guess you’d have to have pity. He only wrote me up for an
84.

MH: Scraped through that one! Describe a contradiction about yourself.

TB: Oh good grief. Where to begin? I try to be original but I know originality is impossible. I try
to act all tough but underneath I’m really a big fuzzy bear... (pauses) We could go on.

MH: I think that’s a pretty good answer. Here’s a very serious question, and I’d like you to ponder it
before answering: if you were a hotdog, and you were starving, would you eat yourself?

TB: (laughs) Man, what did I tell you? Great questions! Yes. I’d eat myself. Come on - eat my own
hotdog? Absolutely.

MH: What do you think of your roommate? Be honest now.

TB: Dave’s (David Tolley) the best thing to happen to Davidson’s campus. We found each other last year amidst the
cold winter of this dark and wayward land.

MH: Who is the most influential person in your life?

TB: My dad. Everyone says “my dad”, but I’m really serious. I don’t know - I just really look up
to him. My dad invented the word “zit”.

MH: Really? That’s quite interesting. I didn’t know the word had an inventor.

TB: Yep. I could tell you the story, but it would take too long.

MH: Another time, perhaps. If you don’t have homework, what do you like to do with your time?

TB: Hmmm. Homework: it’s bad. Never do it. I like video games, skateboarding, downloading stuff off the Net. I like
to watch movies.

MH: If you could do anything without failing, what would it be?

TB: I’d be a rockstar. No question. I wouldn’t even have gone to college - just straight to stardom.

MH: What things are important to you?

TB: Jesus, time to myself, good books. Pearl Jam.

MH: What have I not asked you about that you’d like to talk about?

TB: That’s a hard question.

MH: Well, I know I can’t possibly come up with all the right questions to discover your character... so this
is a chance for you to tell me about some aspect of yourself that we haven’t discussed.

TB: Ah. Good thinking. Hmmm... (thinks for a while). I really like to just get away sometimes. Davidson is great
but it’s hard because it’s so small, you know? I like to have time to myself. I also lead a
small group Bible study, and that’s the best thing that’s happened since I got here. I’ve made a difference. I’ve
left something behind that means something important. I don’t like a regimented atmosphere. Of course, I’m a bit hypocritical, seeing
as how I just said I want to be a rockstar. No triviality there! (laughs) I hate TV. TV’s the
enemy. Don’t watch it.

MH: But I thought you liked to watch movies?

TB: Well, yeah.

MH: If you were on a desert island, and you had been provided with all the necessities to survive, what
one extra thing would you take with you? It can be anything, even if it’s something you don’t have right
now.

TB: Geez... where your treasure is, there your heart is, right? Well, I couldn’t take the skateboard because it wouldn’t
work too well on sand. And I’m not going to pick something clichéd like the Bible or the complete works
of Shakespeare... (thinks for a while)... I’ve got it! A good computer with an Internet connection. Now that would be
perfect because then I could download everything I need, and order stuff to be air-mailed to me. Cool. A real
high-speed connection, not like Davidson. And hey, I could even meet people in chat rooms.

MH: Of course you never know if they’re really who they say they are.

TB: Of course.

MH: We’re almost finished, but I need to know where that “Man of Destiny” nickname came from.

TB: Sure thing. You know how Calvin (from Calvin and Hobbes) called himself the “Boy of Destiny”?

MH: Yeah?

TB: In fifth grade, I started writing that on all my assignments, and when I got to college, I just
changed it to “Man of Destiny”. It fits.

MH: Very effective. Well, this has been really fun.

TB: Hey, it’s been awesome. You’re a great interviewer. And you’ve got fun questions.

MH: Here’s one more before we go: do you read the Davidsonian?

TB: Ah, haha (laughs). Not usually. But I will this week!

MH: Why am I not surprised. And so ends this week’s portrait. I said goodbye to the Man of Destiny,
and said goodbye again when I saw him wandering around the building a few minutes later. “You okay?”

TB: Uh, sure. How do I get out of this place?
