Kells from page 6 because I’m not currently studying the region, but that has been my focus and certainly was last year. This year, I have kind of reoriented myself back to American politics.

MH: What do you anticipate doing once you graduate?

KH: I'd like to do a radio talk show. I have been interested in talk and entertainment for a long time and believe it's something that I’m fairly good at—again you are entitled to your own opinion. I have spent two summers interning at radio stations. The first was OFM Radio in Bloemfontein, South Africa, and the second was WABC in New York City—it’s a news talk station. WABC is home to characters like Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity.

MH: What is your favorite Davidson tradition? Like Spring Frolics or Pancake Breakfasts?

KH: Quesadillas at the Union Café on Saturday nights. I really love those cheese quesadillas!

MH: Ah yes, truly a Davidson experience. I think I know exactly what you mean. What was your favorite TV show as a kid?

KH: Sesame Street and Mr. Rogers. My favorite part of Mr. Rogers was when he ran the trains. You may, or may not remember that part, but it was absolutely my favorite part.

MH: A fellow Sesame Street fan?! How great! And of course, I remember the trains. I never understood how the train actually got from his house to King Friday’s castle. Do you have a favorite movie?

KH: Yes, it’s Gone with the Wind.

MH: Yet another classic. Who is your hero?

KH: Hard to say. I guess you might say that I have something more like a team of idols. This team includes people like Henry Ford, G.E.’s Jack Welch, John Kennedy, Alexander Hamilton, and John Adams (the first of the two Adams to be president).

MH: I think I can see a patriotic streak beginning here. (smiles) As a senior, what kind of advice would you offer the incoming freshmen?

KH: Stay focused. Build a plan and stick to it. Set goals and attain them. Everyone says that, you know. But, it’s that mantra too.

MH: Wise words.

MH: Of course. Well, we’re almost to the end of my questions, but I do have a few more that are of the lighthearted variety.

KH: Shoot.

MH: Would you shave your head?

KH: No. Unless of course there were some practical reason to do it.

MH: What’s one thing about you that not many people might know?

KH: Well, I’m responsible for some of the recent changes in Commons. I convinced Commons to put out a block of cream cheese each morning instead of just those little packets of cream cheese. I also convinced Mr. Terry who heads up Auxiliary Services to offer ice cream in Commons.

MH: Are you kidding?

KH: Not at all! I’m quite fond of bagels, actually, and so now we have cream cheese for the bagels.

MH: I would venture to say that not many people know about that. So, what’s your favorite fast-food chain?

KH: McDonald’s.

MH: Wait, let me guess: Happy Meals?

KH: No. I don’t like Happy Meals because I don’t want something thrown at me. I want to be able to tell them what I want on my burger. You see, the Happy Meals are pre-packaged. The product is already put together, without any input from me, the customer. I’d like to have a little say in what goes on that sandwich. I hated pickles and they put those on there, and they mixed the mustard and ketchup. Letting foods touch—that’s a no-no when you’re ten (laughs).

MH: Would you do anything for money?

KH: No. Anything, no. My morals are not for sale. Nor is...my integrity.

MH: Well, Kells, that brings me to the end of my questions. I’ve really enjoyed getting to know you a bit.

KH: Martha, it was my pleasure. Thank you so much for asking. I look forward to reading your article in the Davidsonian and maybe before it goes to press?

MH: We’ll see about that.

Long Live Rock: Wilco plays Atlanta’s Roxy last Monday
By Jordan Steele
Staff Writer

“The world’s going to hell, we don’t have a record label,” deadpanned Wilco frontman Jeff Tweedy last Monday night in Atlanta. Somehow, after listening to the mesmerizing synthesis of folk, country, delta blues, Beach Boys-tinged pop, and tortured rock, you felt, not without a strand of naiveté, that it’s all gonna be all right.

Wilco proved Monday night that, despite recent personnel changes, record industry woes, and musical pigeonholing, the Chicago-based quartet has weathered the storm. New drummer Glenn Kotche’s jazz-inflected skittering approach to the kit was at once bombastic and surprisingly musical, showcased compellingly during the perversely anthemic crowd-pleaser “Shot in the Arm.” Co-founder John Stirratt, who recently recorded an album with his side project the Autumn Defense, has the makings of a charismatic bandleader. Especially refreshing was the bassist’s dynamic with Kotche, which was both hard-driving and melodic.

The weak link was naturally new utility man Leroy Bach, who most recently replaced jack-of-all-trades musician Jay Bennett. One could sense Bach had entered into a rite-of-passage, as his presence was deferential, both musically and physically (he often stood in the back on Wilco’s most rollicking numbers).

Tweedy was by far the most riveting. The lead singer has a grisly, ratty look about him, which embodies his vocal delivery and his guitar-playing. You sense that Tweedy doesn’t simply “attack” his instrument; rather, some unknowable outside force yanks the chords from his emotional core. The constant struggle between this impalpable assailant and the frontman made for great art, especially during the post-punk interpretation of “I’m Always in Love.”

The show’s artistic apex peaked following their performance of “Sunken Treasure.” Dylan-esque and sublimely wretched, Tweedy caterwauls, “I was tamed by rock-n-roll,...and I don’t need rock-n-roll anymore.” Haunting and nihilistic, Wilco’s renunciation of its roots is implied on their magnificent album Summerteeth and the equally adventurous, yet-to-be-released Yankee Hotel Foxtrot. Following this darkness, however, the band mercifully returned—for a third encore—to perform the triumphantly existential, and just plain rocking, “I Got You (At the End of the Century).” Wilco’s disciples sang along to the chorus, brashly defying the brooding tone of “Sunken Treasure.”

It has proved difficult for Wilco to escape from under the mantle of “alt-country,” but their performance last week confirmed that they have no problem being America’s best rock group. Wilco’s new album, which will be delayed shipping until the new year, is available in its entirety at www.wilcoweb.com.

Thanks for reading Arts and Living! If you have any comments please email Martha at mahunt@davidson.edu or Derek at deloh@davidson.edu. Be sure to check back next week for the new installment of “Martha’s Kitchen,” along with more reviews and mayhem.

Don’t miss it: the Granian concert happens October 6, 9 PM, in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room... check out www.granian.com for more information, or search for “Granian” on www.mp3.com.

All photos courtesy www.wilco.com

Quote of the week: “What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight—it’s the size of the fight in the dog.” —Dwight D. Eisenhower (1890-1969)

Did you brush up your juggling technique over the weekend? The Hurricane Hugo Festival engulfed the Union on Friday and Saturday, dazzling bystanders with juggling skills and amazing feats like fire-eating (kids, don’t try this at home).