__.* The Davidsonian *__

Anderer, Erege help Wildcats put down late Navy rally

Dynamic duo lead Wildcats to victory against physical Midshipmen team

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

Peter Anderer just keeps getting better.

Two games after scoring 18 points in the Wildcats’ upset over North Carolina, the junior guard proved his performance was
no fluke in an 81-79 victory over Navy on Saturday at Belk Arena.

This time, he did it all—scoring from three-point range and the free throw line, finding open teammates for key baskets,
and even playing point guard for a few minutes in the first half. He finished with a career-high 28 points
in 35 minutes, including six three-pointers and eight free throws.

If Anderer’s breakout game was at Chapel Hill, then Saturday night cemented his status as a star.

Not that he noticed.

“I just played,” said Anderer. “I knew I was taking a lot of shots, but I didn’t know I was
coming up on my career high.”

Every time the Midshipmen (1-5) made a run—which was quite often—Anderer came up with a big play to keep momentum
on the Wildcats’ side.

Consider this critical sequence late in the second half: Navy’s Kyle Barker—who finished with a career-high 31 points—hit three three-pointers
in a two-minute span to cut Davidson’s lead to 57-56 with just over seven minutes left.

That’s when Anderer came around a screen and drilled a spot-up three-pointer of his own. He drew a foul and
hit two free throws 30 seconds later, and found Michael Bree for a lay-up the possession after that to push
Davidson’s lead to 64-56.

“They came at us even when we gave them the one-two punch,” he said. “[They] fought hard, but we played
together and came out with it.”

To get an idea of how physical this game was, talk to the ball boys, who spent every dead ball
mopping up the sweat under each basket. Or ask the referees, who called 51 fouls on the night. Or look
at senior Emeka Erege’s stat line—22 points, including 12 for 14 free throw shooting, and 10 rebounds. His clutch free
throw shooting late in the game helped the Wildcats maintain their fragile lead.

Actually, ask Davidson coach Bob McKillop, who’s grown accustomed to tough games against some of our nation’s toughest defenders.

“Any time you play any of the military schools, they’re going to wear you down,” he said. “We understood that
[ahead of time] and you could see that in the bangs and bruises, and opportunities at the foul line.”

Matt Whited

Senior center Martin Ides lays up for two points in Saturday’s home game against Navy. The Wildcats won 81-79.

Matt Whited

Junior forward Chris Pearson shoots over a Navy defender. The ’Cats defeated the Midshipmen 81-79 in Belk Arena on Saturday.

By KATHERINE CUPP
Staff Writer

Friday night, the Runnin’ Bulldogs, the Gamecocks, and the Seahawks traveled to Davidson to take on the Wildcats. The Wildcats
spent much of their weekend in the pool, competing in a two-day meet against Gardner-Webb, the University of South Carolina,
and UNC-Wilmington.

Davidson’s women defeated the Runnin’ Bulldogs 234-96, but they fell to South Carolina 244-196 and to UNC Wilmington 205-142.

Distance swimmer Erin Rosintoski ’04 nabbed a third place finish for the Wildcats in the 1650 free with a time
of 18:11.06. In the backstroke, Sara Laws ’04 and Trisha Blackwell ’05 performed well, with Laws finishing second in the
200 back and Blackwell right behind her.

Blackwell also placed second in the 100-yard backstroke in 1:01.20. Vanessa Witt ’04 finished third in the 400 individual medley.

The relay team of Laws, freshmen Jenny Hoekstra, Lauren Taft, and Melissa Marquez earned points for the Wildcats by finishing
third in the 400-medley relay.

Swim teams flounder against nationally-ranked competition
Injury and sickness plague Aqua ’Cats

Despite the losses, co-captain Beth Summerlin ’02 was pleased with the team’s performance, “This was our first two-day meet and
the team really held itself together. Several swimmers have been sick or injured this season, and we swam some off-events,
so considering that, I was really proud of the way we performed.”

The men also fell to nationally ranked South Carolina 236-75 and to UNC-Wilmington 271-65. Gardner-Webb does not have a men’s
team.

Diver Chris Wrobleski ’05 broke Michael Hart’s 1996 school record in the three-meter dive. His score of 300.75 shattered Hart’s
257.10. Wrobleski placed third in the three-meter and second in the one-meter. The 800 free relay team of Michael Flowers
’05, Robert Koch ’04, Nick Blackwell ’02, and Michael Warner ’02 was successful with a second place finish in 7:20.46.

From December 14-22, the team will train in Coral Springs, Fla.

After a short break, they will travel to Towson, Md., to compete against the Tigers of Towson on January 11.
