@ ALENDA LU DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2001

Administration denies allegations made in mysterious e-mail

By Brent Byars
Staff Writer

Last Wednesday, Davidson students received a mysterious e-mail making serious allegations about labor practices at the school. The e-mail stated,
among other things, that staff members have no labor union. It also charged, more importantly, that staff members had been
discouraged in the past from forming a union. It called upon students to begin a campaign “to rectify the problem.”

A second e-mail from the same address provided a link to a web page that provides more information about the
campaign. These e-mails and the claims they made provoked concerned responses from both students and college administrators, who categorically denied
most of the e-mail’s allegations.

Headed by the subject “Davidson College doesn’t want you to know,” the e-mail was signed “Anna Thompson” and declared the
writer “Founder, People’s Labor Advocacy Organization.” Students who followed the link to the web page (which was at press-time up
and running at http://www.geocities.com/laboraction/) found an angry document attacking the labor practices of the administration at Davidson. The document, which
is decorated with wildcat paw prints, fails to provide any specific charges, but instead relies upon “sources among the staff
who do not feel comfortable being named.” It, among other things, states that “staff members were encouraged to retire early,
or be fired,” and that there have “allegedly been cases where a staff member has raised legitimate grievances, then been
fired a few weeks later for allegedly unrelated reasons.”

The web page further states that school staff “have the right to a union that would protect their rights.” It
calls upon students to e-mail President Bobby Vagt, make fliers, and involve the faculty to continue the campaign to secure
labor rights for college employees.

In response to an e-mail to the campaign, Thompson provided more information about the charges she made. She stated that
she knew of school labor practices because of her connection to a relative, who is a staff member. However, she
failed to provide any specific details about any attempts to organize a union, instead making general allegations.

Because of Thompson’s claims and student concerns over her mass e-mail, Vagt stated that although he could not comment for
past administrations, “There has been absolutely no attempt on the part of this administration to stifle anything.” Vagt rejected the
idea that administrators or supervisors had attempted to discourage forming a union. He emphasized that “the effort here is to
make certain as best we are able that our salary levels, benefits, and general working environment are the very best
we can afford for all employees of Davidson, without regard to whether or not there is some formal organization.”

Vice President for Business and Finance Robert Norfleet also defended the school’s labor practices, saying that he “is not aware
of any attempts whatsoever to form a union at Davidson in the last thirty years.” He added that non-faculty staff
members are represented by the Administrative Advisory Council and by a smaller group of “Office Support Staff” that meets from
time to time. The AAC is a “broadlyrepresentative, voluntary group see Union, page 3

Matt Whited R.D Ward (Department of Defense)

President Clinton with former Secretary of Defense William Cohen making only general in Sports. The men’s basketball team erupts in
celebration after Saturday’s 68-65 win over College of Charleston at Belk Arena. Both the men and women open Southern Conference
tournament play on Thursday in Greenville, SC, against Wofford. Tournament previews

Caro Prez-Heydrich

Former Defense Sect. will visit school in spring

By Linny BALDWIN Staff Writer

The Wearn Endowment has made it possible for several prominent speakers to visit Davidson’s campus. This spring, Davidson prepares to
welcome Joseph Wearn Lecturer William Cohen, the former Secretary of Defense. Cohen, a Maine native, served as an elected official
for over thirty years starting with his 1969 election to the Bangor city council. He was elected to three terms
as a Congressman beginning in 1972 before moving up to the Senate, where he was a member of the Senate
Armed Services, Senate Intelligence, and Governmental Affairs Committees.

During his time in Congress, Cohen acquired a reputation for his independent thinking. He was one of the first Republicans
to call for Richard Nixon’s impeachment, and in 1987 he signed a paper placing the blame for Iran-Contra on President
Ronald Reagan. In late 1996, Cohen was preparing to retire after three Senate terms when President Bill Clinton appointed him
to the post of Secretary of Defense. Despite Cohen’s Republican affiliation and his statement that he might disagree with Clinton
on certain national security issues, Clinton called Cohen “the right man to secure the bipartisan support America’s armed forces must
have and clearly deserve.” The Senate unanimously confirmed Cohen, and the moderate Republican immediately set to work by presenting the
FY 1998 military budget to Congress.

Cohen stressed the need to improve military morale by increasing pay and making more amenities such as child care available
to soldiers. Cohen also emphasized modernization and the need for American military superiority. To that end, he recommended a round
of base closings in 2000-2001 to help the Pentagon conserve funds for modernization. In addition to financial issues, Cohen faced
controversies over peacekeeping missions in volatile areas such as Bosnia. He was also involved in talks with Russia about US
plans for a missile defense system. Finally, Cohen frequently had to deal with rising social tensions in the military —
racism, sexual harassment, and homosexuality — in the face of intense public interest.

see Cohen, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Rough Riding
The Community Bicycle Program brought to Davidson College by Davidson Outdoors and the Student Government Association has hit a major
setback over the last weekend. Nearly half of the bikes are in need of some repair after only one week
of service.
NEWS page 2

Time will tell
The results are in, and the findings are striking. How do Davidson students’ attitudes and goals develop through four years
of academic rigor?
NEWS page 4

Just answer the questions
Arts & Living Editor Martha Hunt embarks on a mission to profile the odd, the intriguing, and the invisible people
at Davidson. Her first installment asks the question, “What makes them so unique?”
ARTS & LIVING page 11

Signs of the times
A recent batch of flyers sparked some heated commentary from concerned students.
PERSPECTIVES page 13
