Round trip plus tax.

Europe $179 one way plus tax.

Other worldwide destinations cheap.

If you can beat these prices, start your own damn airline!

Book tickets online at www.airtech.com or call (212) 219-7000.

---

By ANDREW MacDONALD
Special Contributor

CoHo, in association with PCC, will be putting on Davidson College’s first-ever campus-wide foosball tournament this weekend. The tournament will
begin at 1 pm on Saturday, May 5th, and will last until there is only one (or two, actually) team
left. The tournament will be team-based (two people per team) and divided into two tournaments—amateur and professional. Each tournament will
be divided into rounds, with multiple groupings within each round. Every team in each group will play, and the two
best teams will continue on to the second round where they will be paired with the two best teams from
the other groups. Each team will compete against every other team again, and the two best will go on to
a third round until only one remains.

The tournament, styled after European soccer competitions, will be conducted at the CoHo house. Each team will pay a $5
entry fee, which will guarantee them at least three matches and all the refreshments they can consume. The winners of
each tournament will receive an amateur-size and professional-size engraved Cup, respectively, to be held by the team (or their house
in the event it is a court-sponsored team) until the next competition, planned for the spring of 2002. All proceeds
will go to benefit the Strong Tower Medical Clinic, a group started by Davidson students that provides free health care
to the North Mecklenburg community.

This tournament follows on the heels of CoHo’s in-house contest earlier this semester and will make use of the foosball
tables of Rusk House, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Phi Kappa Alpha and is open to the entire campus. An information
table with sign-up sheets will be located on the north end of Chambers by the flagpole on Tuesday and Wednesday
during the day. For more information, interested parties can contact John Martin at x5525 or Joel Hanisek at x5491.

---

Spears, from page 1

The government is considering similar actions.

Most shocking of all was the fight that erupted in Vail Commons between Britney supporters and those who believe she
should be banned for life from all public appearances. The riot apparently started as an argument between Sarah Mark ’03
and her boyfriend Joseph McColm ’02 over the magazine photo of Britney that has replaced Mark’s picture in McColm’s wallet.

Academic life at Davidson has also taken a beating in the wake of the announcement. One History professor expressed concern
that finals would have to be canceled. “I can’t get my male students to pay attention at all. The ones
who actually show up to class spend the period staring at pictures taped to the inside of their notebook covers.”

Of course, not all Davidson men have forsaken their academic future to fantasize about Ms. Spears. Enlightened male Fred Johnson
’04 said, “Well, yeah, she’s cute and all, but it’s not worth throwing my GPA down the toilet, you know?”

Johnson was promptly pummeled by his roommate, Bradley Whitehall ’04, and several friends who were holding a candlelight vigil beside
Whitehall’s poster of Ms. Spears.

“At least Bradley’s still somewhat coherent,” Johnson commented as a nurse stitched up a gash above his eyebrow. “There’s this
other guy on our hall [Peter Simmons ’04] who just keeps rocking back and forth, listening to her CD and
muttering something.”

Simmons’ only comment on the issue was, “I can’t believe she’s really coming. She’s really coming. She’s really coming.”
