Lacrosse off to its best start in school history
Spring Break trip nets wins over California and St. Mary’s
By Zep Kettey & TYLER REED
Staff Writers

While most Davidson students basked in Florida sun or enjoyed home-cooked food with their parents, the women’s lacrosse team was
all business on a three-game road trip in California. The Wildcats earned victories against California and St. Mary’s, and lost
to Stanford.

At Berkeley, CA, the women used a three-minute stall to preserve a 10-8 win over the Bruins. Senior captain Lauren
Kenchington was impressed with the team’s “definitive finish” and ability to finish off the game on a positive note.

Against Stanford, a team that recently upset perennial powerhouse Vanderbilt, the Wildcats got off to a solid start early and
then fell behind 14-8 with just over eight minutes remaining in the contest. They scored four unanswered goals to finish
the game off only two goals short of the upset. “We needed two more minutes,” Kenchington said.

Against St. Mary’s, Kenchington became only the third Davidson player to surpass the 100-goal mark in an 11-7 victory. “I
had no idea I had done it,” said Kenchington, who realized the feat only after receiving a congratulatory email from
a friend.

The women lost 20-5 to New Hampshire on March 14 and 17-6 to No. 14 Johns Hopkins on March 18.
The 3-4 start is the best in team history. A balanced attack has been key, even in the loss to
Johns Hopkins. Stephanie Hunter, Sarah Otto, Loren Seaton, Lauren Kenchington, and Jamie Larrimore scored the six goals. But Head Coach
Mary Schwartz said the team needs to be more consistent, and that when it came down to scoring goals in
the recent losses, “We did not capitalize.” Added Kenchington: “We made some mistakes and they capitalized on them.”

As the team passes through the midway point of the season, Schwartz is excited about the future. “We should only
be an underdog in one of our upcoming 10 games, and that is against Duke,” she said. “We go into
every game with the attitude that we can beat the other team.” The team doesn’t play in a conference and
may, in fact, be the “southernmost point for college lacrosse in the U.S.,” said Schwartz.

Wrestlers wrap up dual season at conference tournament
By MIKE CLARK
Davidson S.I.D.

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. - Five Davidson wrestlers picked up victories and three of them placed in the 2001 Southern Conference
Wrestling Tournament, helping the Wildcats to a sixth-place showing at the season-ending tournament.

Senior Anthony Albert, junior Jeff Libersat, and freshman Shawn Reynolds finished in fourth place in their respective weight classes. Albert
(149 pounds) placed fourth in the SoCon tourney for the second time in his career at Davidson. He opened with
an 8-6 decision over Gregg Fox from UNC Greensboro before falling to the eventual champion, Adam Britt of VMI, in
the semis. In the wrestle-backs, Albert scored a 12-2 major decision over Cardin Smith of Chattanooga to earn a berth
in the consolation finals. However, Justin Bellman of The Citadel defeated Albert 7-2 for third place.

At 184 pounds, Libersat triumphed over Luke Bialy of UNC Greensboro, 7-4, in the consolation semis, but fell to Jon
Gross of The Citadel in the third-place contest. Libersat had defeated Gross earlier this season in dual meet action. Finally,
Reynolds (HWT) added two more pins to his team-leading total on his way to a fourth place finish.showing. In the
first round, Reynolds pinned Jordan Everett of The Citadel to reach the semis. Reynolds bounced back after a loss in
the semis to pin Brian Toney of VMI to reach the consolation finals. A.J. Lyczkowski of Chattanooga defeated Reynolds for
the second time this year in the third-place match. Sophomore Grant Doornbos (141) and junior Jeff Bender (157) were the
only other Wildcats to triumph in at least one match in the conference tournament. For the fifth time overall and
first time since 1997, Appalachian State finished first in the team standings. Five Mountaineer wrestlers won their brackets, while two
from Chattanooga, and one each from VMI, UNC Greensboro, and The Citadel placed first in a weight class. Davidson finishes
the season 6-13 in dual meet action.

Junior Blair Otto (5) passes to the middle while the defense scrambles to block Otto.

COMMENTARY
Recruiting at Davidson
By JENN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

What does Davidson offer that top athletes want? The small class size and friendly small-town environment could attract some recruits.
On the flip side, the deficiency in the number of athletic scholarships could turn some towards schools with bigger booster
organizations (e.g. more financial support for athletics). The liberal-arts curriculum could entice many to attend Davidson, while the small number
of majors could discourage others from enrolling. So my question is, do we really have any control over whether or
not “good” athletes choose Davidson?

Recruits Eric Blancett and Dean Emmerton show that sometimes the odds are in Davidson’s favor, and sometimes they aren’t. Blancett
committed last fall. Emmerton hasn’t. Blancett, a 6’5”, 185-pound small forward, has aspirations to play competitive basketball at a superior
academic institution. Take the fact that he is a versatile, quick-off-the-dribble baller who is a threat from just about anywhere
on the court and mix it with his academic skills and he’s nothing short of your average Ivy League star.
But the interesting thing is that Blancett passed up the Ivy League once he took a look at Davidson. The
wingman from St. Louis, Mo., led DeSmet Jesuit High to the Missouri state championships two years running, averaging almost 12
points per game, while also garnering over a 4.0 GPA and maintaining his membership in the National Honor Society. Blancett
was being recruited by a number of schools including Princeton, Yale, Columbia, and Dartmouth. Blancett took one visit to Davidson
and was sold. He cancelled his visits to the Northeast, proclaiming that “right when I first stepped foot on campus,
I knew Davidson was for me.”

See COMMENTARY, page 13

The Bottom Line
Davidsonian — Player of the Week
Kirk Hirsekorn

On the first night of the Colonial Athletic Association Swimming & Diving Championships, Hirsekorn broke the record in the 200
breast with a time of 2:03.48. He also shattered the school record in the 200 IM.

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Mar. 22 at UNC Asheville 3:00
Mar. 24 College of Charleston* (2) noon
Mar. 25 College of Charleston* 1:00
Mar. 27 at High Point 3:00

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 22 Western Carolina 3 p.m.
Mar. 24 @ Virginia Tech 4 p.m.
Mar. 25 College of Charleston 1 p.m.
Mar. 27 Winthrop 2 p.m.

GOLF
March 23-25 Furman Invitational

TRACK
Mar. 24 Irwin Belk Invitational all day

MEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 25 College of Charleston 1 p.m.
Mar. 27 UNC Asheville 2 p.m.

LACROSSE
Mar. 21 Towson 6:30
Mar. 25 @ Brown 3 p.m.
Mar. 27 @ Duke 5 p.m.
