From page I:

Looking for more convenient ways for students to store their stuff. In dorms such as Sentelle and Cannon, vanities were
built inside the rooms so that students would have a place to store their shower caddies. Toiletries such as razors
and toothbrushes are of the main concern because they may be contaminated with infected body fluids. Soaps, shampoo bottles, and
other such toiletries don’t contribute directly to the spread of Hepatitis B and Meningitis, but leaving them in bathrooms makes
it difficult for the housekeeping staff to clean in the areas where these items are left. This leads to unsanitary
conditions, increasing the risk of acquiring these infections for the students and the housekeeping staff.

Vaccines are available for both Hepatitis B and Meningitis, although students are not required to be vaccinated for them to
be able to live on campus. On the Pre-Admission History and Physical Medical Form, required to be completed by all
students before being able to live on campus, the vaccines for Hepatitis B and Meningitis are listed as optional. When
asked whether it should be required that students be vaccinated for these infections, Dean Leslie Marsicano replied, “No, but we
are noticing more and more entering students have had the Hepatitis B [vaccine] series administered.” The number of entering students
who have been vaccinated for Meningitis is increasing too.

It would seem that overall students find storing their toiletries in their rooms is a minor inconvenience given the risks
they would be taking by storing them in the bathrooms. “Carrying toiletries to and from the bathroom is a small
inconvenience,” commented Annette Welty ’04, “but it’s worth it in the long run to keep everyone healthy.” Marsicano commends students
for their compliance with the new rules. As she points out, “It’s in everyone’s best interest to comply.”

Counting Crows rock Belk Arena
Matt Whited
Photography Editor

It wouldn’t have been difficult to guess that Monday’s Counting Crows concert would prove to be Davidson’s largest concert in
years, perhaps ever. Even the cynics, who cited last year’s low student attendance at the Train concert in Belk Arena,
were convinced as the crowds started to line up outside Baker Sports Complex as early as 3:30 for a concert
that wouldn’t begin until 8 p.m. By the time Stew, Counting Crows’ opening band, was ready to take the stage,
the arena was filled nearly to capacity.

Duritz came out to introduce the band, sporting a red Davidson t-shirt, and immediately won the emotions of the crowd
by telling a story about how the members of Stew were Davidson alumni who had played in the marching band
together but had a dream to make it big someday. Led by singer/guitarist Stew from The Negro Problem, the band
played a 45-minute set consisting of songs such as “Reelin’” and “The Naked Dutch Painter.” Throughout the set, they enjoyed
only lukewarm support from a crowd that was unfamiliar with their music.

After a 30-minute intermission, Counting Crows took the stage. Including the encore, the band played 17 songs. Although they played
quite a few of the standards from their three studio albums, Duritz devoted a large portion of the show to
unreleased songs that the band intends to include on their new CD, which is currently being recorded during weeks and
months between tour dates. In fact, seven songs from the set list were completely new.

Counting Crows didn’t let down the enthusiastic crowd at any time during the set. They began with several driving electric
songs, including “A Murder of One” and “Anna Begins” from their first album, “Have You Seen Me Lately” from Recovering
the Satellites, and “Miami” and “Richard Emmanuel is Dead” which are scheduled to appear on their new studio recording. The
rest of the set was most remarkable for its diversity in the style of the songs and instrumentation. Counting Crows
played acoustic versions of two of their traditionally electric songs, “Angels of the Silences” and “Catapult,” even venturing to have
Dan Vickrey play the lead guitar part for “Catapult” on a banjo. The band also introduced several heavily electric rock
songs.including “American Girl” and “1492.” In what has become typical Counting Crows fashion, the band ended the concert by inviting
the members of Stew and the family of drummer Ben Mize onto the stage for the final song. They played
“Hanginaround,” the only song in the set from the band’s most recent release, This Desert Life. As they had done
in several songs throughout the concert, members of the audience alternated singing the chorus with Duritz and Stew.

Q&A with lead singer Adam Duritz

In an extremely gracious move by Adam Duritz, I had an opportunity to sit down with the Counting Crows’ lead
singer and songwriter for a few minutes before the band ate dinner to talk about his life, his music, and
what we can expect in the future.

MW: So, how is your tour this year going so far?

AD: Good, we actually just got back on the road. We toured in May, then we were in the studio
in June, July, and August recording. We’re going back to record more after October.

MW: You mentioned a lot of recording, and I’ve heard that you’re working on a new CD. How is it
coming so far?

AD: We’ve written a lot of new songs... there are about 14 right now; they won’t all go on the
new CD. I plan to write a few more songs when we get back before we finish recording.

MW: I guess the next thing I would like to know is about your influences. Your lyrics are probably the
most consistently poetic of any modern band... where do you get your inspiration lyrically?

AD: I write about myself, so that’s where I draw most of my inspiration.

MW: What about your lyrical influences? What writers influenced you?

AD: Bob Dylan, but then how can you be a songwriter and not be influenced by Bob Dylan, because he
shaped the art. It’s like how can you be a guitarist and not be influenced by Chuck Berry? Although I
don’t think my lyrics are actually like Dylan’s. Also R.E.M. as a kid, I derived the free form for songs
from them. I don’t agonize over my lyrics for months or weeks or hours like other artists... well, maybe hours.
I like to sit down and get it done.

MW: What about musical influences, for you or as a band?

AD: I’ve listened to a lot of different music, so it’s hard to name one or two. (Turns to guitarist
David Immergluck, who is playing backgammon) Who am I listening to now?

DI: Well... Frankie Miller.

AD: Yeah, I’ve been listening to a lot of Frankie Miller recently. I’ve been influenced by Big Star and Robyn
Hitchcock, he’s a British rocker. I listened to a lot of funk growing up.

MW: Where do you see the band heading, as far as the ways that you’re growing and developing right now,
particularly since just before the release of This Desert Life?

AD: Well, we keep adding guitarists, for one. It’s hard to tell what direction we’re going while it’s happening. It’s
the kind of thing you look back on later and see. Usually it’s more accidental than purposeful. Well, that’s not
always true. Like when we made Recovering the Satellites after adding Dan, we wanted to make that an electric record.
Our third album was more quirky and instinctive, less planned-out.

MW: What about the new album?

AD: It has a lot of different things. We have a couple of beautiful acoustic songs on there. I’m still
rewriting the lyrics to some of the songs before we finish recording.

Since 1951
Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes
104 S. Main St.
Davidson, NC
Eat-in
Take-out
