~~ FINAL EXAM SURVIVAL GUIDE: ~~

How to pass your classes, keep your sanity, and avoid expulsion

Davidson students, welcome to Finals Week, that intimidating period during which you are expected to regurgitate everything you’ve ever learned for professors who don’t seem to understand that you’ve got term papers, holiday shopping, and packing to do at the same time. By now, we’re sure you’ve figured out that Optional Class Days are a myth; how to get through the next week of solid slave labor may, however, remain a mystery. The Davidsonian has thoughtfully put together the following page for anyone who needs a few tips on how to survive - or a good solid excuse to procrastinate a bit more. Good Luck!

Stress? Who’s stressed?
By AMANDA PENNOCK

Senior shares study tips
By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

Title of this article seem especially laughable to you? You’re not alone. Consensus around campus seems to be that, yes, the mere two and a half weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas stack up to be an extremely high-stress time period for all Davidson students. By this late date in the semester, it is likely useless to point out methods of preventing stressful situations. Dr. DeWitt Crosby, a psychologist at the Student Counseling Center, was gracious enough to provide some tips on handling stress when it seems imminent.

* When stress hits, don’t forget to retain parts of your normal daily routine. If you stop eating, exercising, sleeping, and spending time with friends, you are more likely to become overwhelmed with stress. Even if you only spend 20 minutes at Commons with friends instead of your normal 45, it will help to alleviate some stress.
* Try to stay healthy! At this time of year, likely due to a combination of winter illnesses and stress, the Health Center sees an influx of patients. Beating up on your body by not eating or sleeping may lead to a weakened immune system — and who wants to take finals with the flu?
* Need to save time? Cut out “stress talk.” The workload at Davidson is heavy for pretty much everyone — does it really help your stress level to tell anyone who will listen just how many papers, reviews, and finals you have in the next 5 days? Crosby explains that “some stress can be energizing... but high stress can be paralyzing.”
* If you realize that you simply are not going to be able to get everything done, sit down and figure out where you can cut corners. What is more important grade-wise? Prioritize what needs to be done in the time you have left.
* “Have you had your recess today?” Crosby explains that it is important for everyone to set aside a little time each day to relax and do something fun. Depriving yourself of activities you enjoy only makes stressful times worse on your mental state. Activities like yoga, reading, meditation, massage therapy, and a regular exercise routine can all help to decrease the effects of stress in your life.

And finally, for the future:
* Try not to compartmentalize your life into the typical “Work hard, play hard” mentality that so many Davidson students embody. Try to incorporate the two extremes in order to decrease the stress involved in switching between these activities.
* Learn how to manage your time and stress levels. How you react to stresses in your life now influences how you will deal with them later in life — so set a good example for yourself!

“Can I tell my parents how my exams went?”
Honor Council Chair Will Parker addresses some common concerns about the Honor Code and final exams
By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff Writer

For their first session of exams at Davidson, many freshmen are unfamiliar with the Honor Code policy during exam time. Many students have questions and concerns regarding the honor code restrictions during this stressful period. Honor Council Chair Will Parker took some time to...Address some common questions. Here is his statement: 

“Unlike on regular reviews and tests during the semester, every student that takes an exam during the self-scheduled exam periods in Chambers signs a statement when he or she turns in the exam. This statement represents the student’s agreement to ‘not talk’ about the exam until the end of the final examination period. (This year, the final exam period is on Thursday, December 13.) It’s important to the integrity and practical success of the self-scheduled exams system to honor this statement. Cheating is defined in the Honor Code as ‘any practice, method, or assistance, whether explicitly forbidden or unmentioned, that involves any degree of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit.’ Thus, the casual mention of a successful final exam to a parent or friend is usually not a violation of the Honor Code, because there is no dishonest exchange of information. However, the ‘better safe than sorry’ principle is one worth following. It is hard to make any blanket predictions about what would and would not be considered an Honor Code offense, as well as the possible sanctions. The self-scheduled exams that are picked up from the Exam Center in Chambers Gallery can only be taken in Chambers. There are a few rooms on the third floor designated open-book rooms for students who have their professor’s permission to use outside materials.”

Staff Writer

Top 10 ways to cope with the insanity of finals at Davidson:

10. Take fun study breaks, like going bowling, or out for coffee.
9. Study someplace besides the library or your room; go to Barnes and Noble, a coffee shop, or someplace outside, like the lake campus... the weather’s warm enough!
8. Attend all optional study sessions, even if you'd rather sleep in; professors will answer any questions you have and sometimes even give you info that will give you an advantage over those who don’t attend.
7. Relax! Sit back, have a cup of tea, take a cat nap... whatever gives you a moment of release from your Davidson workload. It'll refresh you and make it easier to study.
6. Don’t wait till the last minute; you might think you do the best by cramming, but it just adds to your stress level if you procrastinate with the studying... try to start early if you can... brains don’t like to be overtaxed.
5. Laugh. No one’s happy during exams, which is why laughing during this time is so important. Get your friends together for a 10-minute study break and talk about all the silly, dumb things you did throughout the semester until you’re laughing hysterically. It’ll energize you, and also remind you that there are fun times at Davidson too!
4. If you’re worried or especially concerned about a test or paper, talk to your professor. They’re there to help, and often talking out your ideas and concerns can help you organize your thoughts and make your tasks less intimidating.
3. Drink lots of fluids, especially water and OJ. Try to stay away from caffeine if you can. (I know it’s impossible, but it doesn’t hurt to try.) Caffeine can dehydrate you and make you edgy, whereas water and OJ will keep your mind clear and hopefully ward off any cold germs flying around.
2. Eat right! Make sure you don’t forget to eat, and that you’re eating decent food. The worst thing for a nervous stomach is no food or lots of junk food. If you keep your body healthy and strong it will help your mind be alert and ready to study and take those exams.
1. Sleep. Yes, there’s never enough time to sleep AND study for exams, but try. No matter how much you’ve studied, if you get to your exams exhausted and sick because your body hasn’t been getting what it needs, you’re not going to be able to do as well as you can. Sometimes sleeping over studying really is the best choice.