7 The Davidsonian

EAC campaigns to free environmentalists

By LINDY BALDWIN
Staff Writer

The newly inaugurated President of Mexico, Vicente Fox, faces many daunting tasks as he assumes leadership. Among his promises to the Mexican people and the international community has been a pledge to improve Mexico’s human rights and environmental record. A handful of Davidson students are aiming to remind him of this goal through a letter-writing campaign designed to encourage the release of two imprisoned environmentalists.

Rodolfo Montiel Flores, a farmer and ecologist, is one of Mexico’s most vigilant and dedicated environmental activists. In 1995 he was one of the first to speak out against flagrant abuses by an American company, Boise Cascade, logging in the old growth forests of Guerrero. Flores organized letter-writing campaigns and roadblocks. In 1998, Boise Cascade withdrew from the area.

Flores and a colleague, Teodoro Cabrera Garcia, were subsequently arrested and signed confessions to drug and weapons charges. The Rainforest Action Network (www.ran.org) alleges these confessions were prompted by torture, and that Garcia and Flores are political prisoners of Mexican officials who stood to profit from Boise Cascade’s logging activities. Organizations like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch concur that Garcia and Flores were not tried fairly.

Clinton Rickards ‘04, head of the Environmental Action Coalition’s Rainforest committee, is heading up the campaign with inspiration and help from Amnesty International. The campaign’s ultimate goal is the release and retrial of Flores and Garcia, but Rickards feels notifying students about the issue is an important first step. “I think that EAC helps raise awareness,” Rickards explained.

“We’re mostly aware of the issues immediately presented to us. Even if someone doesn’t write a letter, maybe they’ll go back to their dorm room and look it up on the Internet and say, ‘This is a problem.’”

From 10:30 to 2:00 on Tuesday, Feb. 13, EAC members took turns encouraging passersby to read available materials and sign a prepared letter to President Vicente Fox. Only thirty minutes into the effort, Rickards had a thick stack of signed letters — and a few handwritten by devoted students.

According to EAC presidents Mary Wise and Margaret Holt, the EAC has conducted several letter-writing campaigns in the past. “It’s a way we as an organization and a school can have impact globally,” Wise said.

In fact, another campaign is in the works under the leadership of Terra Gill ‘02. This second letter-writing effort will center around the plans to drill for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

This plan, endorsed by President George W. Bush during the 2000 campaign, has drawn fire from environmentalists and prompted fears that President Bush’s environmental policies will favor large corporations. Holt and Wise were both reluctant to pass judgment on the Bush administration, saying that so far Bush has neither helped nor hindered the environment. However, Wise expressed concern over plans for the Arctic Refuge.

The relationship between Republican administrations and environmental groups has traditionally been contentious. Holt said she believes a middle ground exists, but wonders, “Is either side willing to find it?”

Regardless of Washington politics, the EAC plans to continue its efforts to educate Davidson students about the environment. Other ideas include restoring Davidson’s arboretum by labeling the trees again and working with Physical Plant on beautifying the campus. They’re also planning campus and community-wide events for Earth Week, coming up March 23.

Students who missed the letter-writing campaign can visit http://www.ran.org/info_center/aa/aal151_montiel.html for more information.

Be a part of our new Union Board!

Applications available in the Union Lobby beginning this week.

For more information contact Will Parker, x5902

WE CORDIALLY INVITE YOU TO JOIN THE All-Campus Prom Through the Decades Party as Davidson College CELEBRATES THE SENDOFF OF THE Grey Student Union. Come dressed IN MODERN-DAY PROM ATTIRE, PROM CLOTHES FROM DECADES PAST, OR WHATEVER YOU'RE WEARING AT THE TIME.

Food, Live Band, DJ, Cash Bar, & Free Admission

February 17th, 2001

10:00pm - 2:00am

21 YEAR OLDS BRING 2 IDs

Brought to you by SGA