Shakespeare, rest page 2

"Visiting for two weeks, we will plan an array of social activities so that the RSC can interact with students and staff on a more casual level.” These opportunities will be open to all students regardless of major or course schedule. Nevertheless, Dr. Cynthia Lewis can expect her Performing Shakespeare seminar to be in even higher demand than usual; two sections will be offered in the spring. There will also be opportunities for North Carolina high school teachers to come and learn from these professional artists, and visitors from the community are always welcome.

In addition to the artistic learning opportunities, Vagt says that the college intends to initiate discussion on the issue of anti-Semitism, since The Merchant of Venice contains a great deal of anti-Semitic rhetoric. Students interested in more information can contact von Deest, Dr. Joe Gardner, the head of the Theatre and Speech department, or Dr. Lewis, a specialist in Renaissance drama.

File sharing could prompt lawsuit

Bandwidth, from page 1

Davidson College and no more than that. So we have, at this point, no really good way to determine which computers on campus are the offending ones.” Copyright offenders, however, should not take this protection for granted. As a hypothetical solution to impending legal action against the school, Casey discussed dropping the firewall for a specified period of time, thus allowing Internet watchdogs to obtain unique ISP addresses of computers. At that point, legal liability would fall to the individual user.

For now, though, the college has consulted with its legal representation, the Charlotte offices of Smith Helms. College attorneys have advised the school not to act before receiving more specific information from NetPD, information that, according to Casey, has been requested but not forthcoming. Davidson College president Bobby Vagt outlined the administration's current position, “We don’t have any deep-seated philosophical opposition to [sharing] audio or video, but we care about illegal things. I understand that students have grown up with ‘who’s music is it anyway?’ when it’s out there. But I think you’ve got recording artists who [protest sharing] and, unfortunately, the law seems to be on their side.” At this point, Casey stresses, “Students simply need to know that they can get caught.”

Admissions Office welcomes prospectives

By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

On Sunday, October 21, 2001, close to 600 unfamiliar faces could be seen on Davidson’s campus. These visitors, almost 250 of whom were prospective students representing 28 states as well as Washington DC, descended upon campus for this year’s Discover Davidson II. Invitations to Discover Davidson were sent to all “responders,” or high school students who expressed interest in Davidson through college fairs, online sign-ups, and other means, according to Emma Butler, Assistant Dean of Admission and Financial Aid, who was in charge of the program this year.

The day-long event consisted of campus tours, speeches by both Robert Vagt ’69, Davidson College President, and Nancy Cable, Vice President and Dean of Admission and Financial Aid, and lectures by various Davidson professors. There were also several information sessions offered to prospective students and their parents, including “Making Davidson Home,” a panel discussion about different aspects of student life on campus, and sessions about financial aid, scholarships, and the application process. In addition to these features, students and parents also had the opportunity to split up and learn about Davidson from different perspectives; the students were able to ask questions of current Davidson students, while parents spoke about the academic life at the college.

Ms. Butler, when asked about the motivation to host these kinds of weekend events, replied that the admissions office is always, in this event and in personal visits to high schools around the country, trying, “...to educate students about Davidson so they can make a good college decision.” These organized weekends give students and parents a more in-depth look at Davidson than an individual visit allows.Students decided to get a closer look at Davidson and stay overnight with hosts from the freshman and sophomore classes on campus. Kristine Harrington ’03 and Mark Pustay ’03, Overnight Hosting Coordinators, related that there were no specific activities planned for the prospectives staying on campus; it was up to the individual hosts, many of whom hosted more than one student, as to what to show their guests. The positions held by the two juniors will be up for grabs this December when Harrington and Pustay resign their posts. The admissions office is currently looking for replacements. The job involves recruiting current students at Davidson to host prospectives, and organizing overnight stays accordingly. Pustay ’03 was very enthusiastic about the job, saying, “You get to meet a lot of the people coming in, and get to introduce them to Davidson.” If interested, please contact either Kristine Harrington ’03, Mark Pustay ’03, or Page Neubert ’01, admissions counselor. Interviews will begin in early November.

Court Harassment Investigated

SAE, from page 1

Investigation into the allegations. If caught and convicted, the alleged offenders could face penalties under the college’s Code of Responsibility as well as state and federal laws on hate crimes, said PCC Adviser Grahaeme Hesp. “In accordance with the federal Cleary Act that mandates the Uniform Crime Report produced by every college and university, this incident would fall under the hate crime category,” he said. Hesp said an investigation is still being conducted. “There is an ongoing investigation into allegations of inappropriate behavior associated with sexual orientation and connected to activities on Patterson Court. The Patterson Court Office has also asked Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity to assist in this investigation.”

“As you can imagine, Davidson College is treating these allegations very seriously.” Hesp was unable to comment further, since the investigation is ongoing. However, he said that “any assistance from anyone to help bring the perpetrators of this heinous act to justice would be appreciated.”

Arbuckle informed his SAE brothers of the accusations at the Monday house meeting after the incident. He said it was the first time any SAE member had heard of the incident. “We were shocked,” said Arbuckle. “SAE is a very accepting group. To be smeared with an image of ignorance hurts.” He said SAE members have been unable to identify the perpetrators, but said he doesn’t believe the offenders are SAE members. SAE President Skylar Hoffman declined comment.

Entry into Patterson Court parties is usually restricted to the front door of a house, where party hosts check to identify incoming students’ PCC registration. Arbuckle said that SAE had purposely barricaded their back porch steps on the night of the party to prevent anyone from entering illegally. Arbuckle said he suspects the harassers snuck onto the porch through the back steps. It is not uncommon for people to bring beer cans into the party through the front door though, he said. Campus Police officers and a student Risk Manager were on duty at the party, following procedure for any Court event. A party was occurring at Warner Hall on the same night.

Difficulties in identifying the perpetrators seem due to the fact that the incident occurred outside in the dark. Further, all partygoers at the SAE “tacky” party had been encouraged to dress in “tacky” attire, making individuals difficult to distinguish, said Arbuckle. “Someone has taken advantage of an open party where everyone was welcome to come and have a good time. Someone has taken advantage of our hospitality, and made SAE and all of Patterson Court look bad,” he said. “I challenge [the offenders] to have the moral integrity to come forward.”

Arbuckle hopes that “some good” can come of the event. He has expressed SAE’s wishes to host a function that would raise awareness of homosexuality on campus. He hopes to coordinate with the Gay Student Alliance to take a more “proactive” role.

Managing Editor Tim Cook contributed to this story.