Blow proves predictable, all too forgettable

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

I have trouble feeling any sympathy for a man responsible for supplying the United States with eighty-five percent of its
cocaine. Ted Demme’s Blow tells the story of that man, the infamous George Jung, and then the film tries to
make us feel bad for him.

There’s nothing wrong with a movie that makes us sympathize with villains. We are, after all, humans, and we all
make mistakes. All the time, movies do this successfully. The problem with Blow’s approach to this situation is that it
shows us George’s villainous side before his human side: we see and accept George as the drug trafficker, and then
an hour after this setup, we see, but do not accept, George as a caring father.

As we see in the beginning of the film, George (Johnny Depp), like any other villain, is not inherently a
bad guy. Indeed, getting into drug dealing was not even his idea. Starting off with marijuana supplied by a flamboyant
hairdresser (yes, he’s gay, and yes, he’s played by Paul Reubens, aka Pee Wee Herman), George sells on the sunny
beaches of California. He makes it big, becoming almost a local hero. But he gets caught and winds up in
jail.

There’s no use in describing any more of Blow’s story: it’s all the same. He gets caught, goes to jail,
gets released, gets in some trouble, and goes to jail again, and again, and again. The only difference is that
he switches over to cocaine. But how he makes the transition of products isn’t even interesting. Yes, it’s entertaining, but
not quite interesting.

Blow’s supporting characters are what make it worth watching at all. Paul Reubens’ character, as exploitative of stereotypes as it
is, steals much of the show, and hell, he’s one smart guy. As George’s wife, Penélope Cruz is sexy, angry,
and, during her visit to jail, deplorable. Jordi Molla as Diego, the man responsible for George’s introduction to cocaine, equals
Cruz in his ability to make us like and then hate his character.

Then there are George’s parents, played by Ray Liotta and Rachel Griffiths. Liotta provides Blow with a heart: he’s the
only decent character in the film. As for Rachel Griffiths’ character, I would have liked to see a whole movie
about her. In Blow Griffiths proves once again that she has amazing range. And her ability to connect with the
audience makes all her characters (see Hilary and Jackie and My Son the Fanatic) frustrating only because we see ourselves
in her shoes, making the same strange mistakes.

Despite these strengths, Blow never goes beyond entertainment to become something interesting. For all its colorful characters and style, Blow
will be forgotten, like most other movies.

But there is one moment that will be forever etched in my mind. George tells his young daughter that he
will take her to California. Promising her the trip, he holds up his fingers in Boy Scout fashion and says,
“I swear on my life.” His daughter’s response is unforgettable, a one-liner that lets us know what good parenting should
be.

Breakfast

Menu 1:30

The Soda Shop

Since 1951

Breakfast
Omelets
Pancakes
Burritos

104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC

Eat-in Take-out

April 11, 2001

Tim Cook
Last week saw the return of the Friday Afternoon Club. Students and faculty gathered at the Depot for an afternoon
of conversation and music, provided by the Jazz Ensemble.
