THE DavipsoNIAN

Press RELEASE
College Communications

Davidson College will host some of the most talented object manipulators in the region September 28-30, 2001, for events that include fire eating, awesome juggling, and object manipulation games sponsored by Ben & Jerry’s of Davidson.

The Twelfth Annual Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival will culminate in a “Vaudeville Extravaganza” show at 7 p.m. Saturday evening, featuring The Dazzling Dimuzio Brothers, two young Charlotteans who present one of the most energetic juggling acts on stage today.

All events take place at the Alvarez College Union, and all those interested in juggling, or in learning to juggle, are invited to participate. There is no admission charge for any event except the Saturday night show, though there is a registration fee for jugglers who intend to participate for the entire weekend.

Local jugglers first held the festival in 1990 “in recollection of that frightful night in 1989 when Hurricane Hugo blew through, sending objects flying through the sky in an uncontrolled cascade of fury!” It is one of about 50 annual weekend festivals hosted by juggling clubs across the nation, and should attract participants from as far away as Florida and New York. Some are professional performers, and others are dedicated amateurs. The most skilled among them will be close to world record levels, which are cascading (briefly) 10 balls, seven clubs, and 11 rings.

About 40 Davidson students per year take a juggling course to help fulfill their physical education requirement.

For a schedule of the weekend’s activities, visit www.davidson.edu.

Study Abroad Meeting

What are you doing next semester?

Meet the representative:

Steve Seaworth

Thursday, September 27

11:00 am - 1:00 pm
Student Information Table
Outside Chambers Hall - North Entrance

In case of rain --
Table in the New College Union

STUDY ABROAD with SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY

Italy
London
Spain
Hong Kong
France
Africa

1-800-235-DIPA (3472)
http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa
www.isabutler.org

Anthony Zerbe
Roscoe Lee Browne

30+ movies
Star Trek IX: Insurrection
True Crime
Emmy Award
Helen Hayes Award
L.A. Dramalogue Award
L.A. Critics Award
Mark Taper Forum
Denver Center Theatre
Arena Stage
Broadway
Off Broadway

movie classics
Cool Hand Luke
Papillon
The Omega Man
Murmurs of the Heart
Babe, Pig in The City
The Cowboys
The Ra Expeditions

tv.
Frasier
Total Recall
SHOWTIME