The real story on girls, boys and relationships at Davidson
By ALI FITZGERALD
Guest Columnist

Where have all the cowboys gone? Even I'll admit that the male icons of yesteryear may have packed on a
few pounds, donned some rhinestones, and become a Vegas act, but that doesn’t mean guys can’t still be like John
Wayne. What I mean is, (hard to follow, I know) what happened to dating on this campus?

Technically speaking, most Davidson guys are not the scaly, craven creatures that the previous paragraph would imply. However, it cannot
be denied that Davidson is certainly lacking in the dating department. Perhaps it is a product of the great Patterson
Court pastime known as “hooking-up.” Don’t get me wrong, I love the Court scene, and the “romantic freedom” associated with
it. But this laissez-faire approach to meeting someone carries with it a big price tag: a lack of real dating
on campus.

That’s not to say that great relationships aren’t blossoming all over the place with a vigor only articulated by the
likes of John Donne. But one has to wonder when it became so hard for a guy to say, “let’s
go see a movie,” and so easy for him to say, “let’s go see my Pier 1 futon.” I know
that the lack of collegiate dating is a national phenomenon, and is not confined to our dear Davidson. However, like
a lot of other girls, I view dating as a fairly simple equation: boy meets girl, boy likes girl, boy
asks girl out. Alas, this process is as subverted as UB40 on this campus. Consequently, we end up with a
strange dynamic in most of our Davidson relationships.

Being the intrepid “lust-guru” that I am, I have worked in conjunction with my romance-weary friends to classify the types
of relationships we have here on campus (in movie-related terms, of course). Guys like John Wayne vanished long ago.

1.) The “Reality Bites” relationship—very common to Davidson students. It develops when both parties are so busy, they can’t seem
to coordinate their schedules. Favorite activity—Passing notes between carrels at the library.

2.) The “Shrek turns into Tom Selleck” relationship—Exclusive to Court-goers and partiers, it consists of a guy, a girl, a
lot of “root beer,” and a semi-magical transformation. Favorite activity—Ignoring each other in the hallway.

3.) The “NO-Office Space” relationship—Frequent not only on Davidson’s campus, but also on college campuses all over this country, it
happens when a guy and girl camp out in each other’s rooms and never leave. Favorite activity—Discussing the details of
their impending nuptials.

My take on relationships might be a little skewed (I’ve watched “When Harry Met Sally” a few too many times),
but I think that I am not alone when I say that this campus is not exactly a casual, pick-you-up-at-seven,
dating-friendly environment. As much as I love Davidson and Patterson Court, is it too much to ask for a few
bold, and daringly dateable guys? I think not. Perhaps some insight can be found in the words of the illustrious
Bridget Jones, who asks if there is “a global epidemic of commitment phobia.”

Confronting the A issue
As exam time draws near, the going gets tough

As the holiday break approaches, we are all too aware that exams are upon us. This will be my first
round of Davidson exams, and many upperclassmen have offered their own unique advice about the process. Inherent in all of
these discussions is the mention of the sought-after, yet elusive, “A.”

Ever since my arrival at Davidson, I have noticed that everyone seems to be wrestling with the “A” issue. That
issue, as it has been presented to me, is the severe shortage of “A”s here and the administration’s alleged efforts
to prevent grade inflation. Everyone I have met seems to deal with this “A” issue in his or her own
way. Some have surrendered themselves to the fact that “A” simply will not describe their academic performance. Others spend hours
in the library striving and yearning for an “A.” And still others, a silent minority, have become disillusioned with the
whole grading process and have decided to only work when personally interested or intrigued.

As for me, I think it’s too early to assign myself to any one camp. To be sure, coming to
a high-powered college like Davidson, I, like many of you, am accustomed to striving for “A”s. But as I dredge
through core requirement courses in my attempt to be liberally educated, I sometimes cannot help but wonder if all the
toil is worthwhile. Other times I would simply prefer to enjoy and explore all the academic fields without worrying about
keeping score. Luckily, it is only my first semester, so I have seven more to solidify my approach. One thing
is certain, though: we as a student body owe it to ourselves to address the “A” issue. Until that time,
best of luck to all of you with your exams, whatever the alphabetical outcomes may be.

In war on terror, U.S. should target non-Islamic nations

As Taliban troops surrender across Afghanistan and leaders meet to discuss the formation of a post-war government, some experts have
already begun discussing the next phase of the war on terror. Although I think there is plenty to be done
in Afghanistan, even if all of the fighting were to stop tomorrow, I do find the issue of “America’s next
target” to be a fascinating one. Inside President Bush’s cabinet are a number of...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Many of these “desert warriors” harbor resentment towards Iraq. Many with friends inside the Bush government have been reporting that
America’s next target will be Saddam Hussein, so that the older officials can, in effect, finish the job they started
in Desert Storm. Personally, I see merit in installing a democratic government inside Iraq. After all, not only has Saddam
violated international law by kicking out United Nations inspectors and using chemical weapons against his own people, but there have
been many reports of a link between Saddam and the Sept. 11 hijackers. However, the Bush government should not allow
past grudges to distract them from better locations to fight terrorism. I do not possess all of the necessary intelligence
information. Nor do I know the positions of the nations that have joined our anti-terrorism coalition. But common sense tells
me that to better ensure our chances of completing the war and keeping our coalition together, the U.S. should choose
a non-Arab, non-Muslim nation to focus on next. This doesn’t mean we should not place additional economic and political pressure
on nations such as Iraq. In fact, repealing our two billion dollars of aid to Egypt (some of which is
used to publish anti-American, anti-Israeli, and pro-Jihad pamphlets) should be one of the next steps our government takes. But to
prove that our target is terror and not Islam, perhaps a nation in South America, whose corrupt governments harbor drug
lords, should be looked at next. Their influence has had a negative impact on America not only because of the
drug trade, but also the innumerable drug-related killings that occur each year. Of course, such a suggestion raises a lot
of other questions about drug-legality and America’s right to directly intervene in those countries. Perhaps a better possibility would be
Cuba. Raul, Fidel Castro’s brother, runs a drug, weapons, and terrorism operation off the island that used to train communist
infiltrators before sending them into America. Only 90 miles off of our shores, Cuba now offers a safe haven to
terrorists fleeing justice from many nations, including our own. For a specific example, the two largest Colombian terrorist organizations, the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the National Liberation Army, both maintain a permanent presence in Cuba. I am not
sure if direct military force would be the answer, but replacing Castro’s dictatorship with a democratic government would not only
improve the lives of Cubans on the island, but also destroy a haven for terror.

Don’t let the Man spoil your enjoyment of the holidays

This Thanksgiving was a special one for me. It marked the first time for my whole family to travel up
to my mom’s parents’ place to see my cousins and aunts and uncles, many of whom I haven’t seen in
a year or two. It also was the first time my brother, Trip, celebrated Turkey Day with us in two
years, which was also a nice bonus. But Thanksgiving wasn’t that nice. Nope, instead of worrying about beverage choices, or
turkey or ham, or both, I was busy worrying about papers. And when I would finally get my head clear
of papers, I’d say to myself, “Tim, you finally got that out of your head...ahh, finals of doom would therefore
be solidified.” Then to clear my head of that, I would revert back to papers and this endless cycle. I
am not saying that teachers should stop giving work over breaks or that we should pass a law saying that
breaks cannot be wasted two weeks before the end of the semester, I’m merely saying...well, ok, I am saying that.
It’s redonkulous! Breaks are special times designated for the relaxation of the mind and rejuvenation of the spirit, and for
professors to shatter our dreams of just a few moments of peace and tranquility is an outrage. Now, I am
going to tell you the worst crime of all. And both students and teachers are guilty. It is: (drum roll)
Claiming or assigning “So much work, that I am just going to stay here for break and not go home”
and in the process making your poor parents, brothers, sisters and grandparents cry. I mean, come on people, you’re wasting
a holiday! What are you going to do here? (This of course is not against all people who couldn’t make
it home for reasons other than work, or those who don’t like their families.) Example 1 of what to do
when you stay at school for the holidays: “I give thanks for this Econ thesis and all the attempts on
my life that it has made.” Friends, countrymen and ladies, abuse of this national pastime will continue unless we stop
it! I know what my opponents will say to my “worthless” or “stupid” argument. They’ll say, “Winter break is in
like three weeks.” Or they’ll say, “Redonkulous is not a word, moron.” And still others will say, “Tim, you are
one handsome devil.” Well, to those people, I say that Christmas, Chanukah and Kwanza are not enough to soothe the
wounds of the Davidson student’s brain. Thanksgiving is the greatest holiday in November, which is a fine month indeed. Let
us make no more concessions. Help me to take back our holiday and say, “No more work on Turkey Week,
because I am good enough, I’m smart enough and Dog-Gonnit, I’ve earned it!” (massive cheering and clapping and people chanting
TIM, TIM, TIM.)

Tim Cook is Managing Editor of The Davidsonian and frequent critic of holiday injustices.
