AIDS, from page 1

Center, Dr. David Wessner of Davidson’s Biology department, Sarah Thornton ’02, and Lucy Kuykendall ’02 are scheduled as panelists. It is likely that Horton will talk about AIDS from a clinical perspective, Wessner will expound upon the biology of the disease, and both Thornton and Kuykendall will discuss their personal experiences with the disease in their visits to Africa. According to Emily Snyder ’02, however, the topics to be discussed by the panel have not yet been confirmed.

Although December 1 is designated as the day for AIDS awareness globally, there are ways for students to get involved year-round. One of the newest ways to do so at Davidson is through the Adopt-a-Country AIDS Campaign (ACAC). According to Judie Kaplan ’04, who serves as co-president of the organization, Davidson’s chapter of ACAC was chartered last fall. Though the group was the first in the United States, at least five other chapters have since been chartered in the US, and one has been chartered at the University of Zambia.

Kaplan explained that “the idea of ‘adopting a country’ is actually a very popular one... The idea of ‘twinning,’ the pairing of an organization in the developed world with an organization in the third world, has become increasingly popular over the past year or two. The organization in the developed world is generally responsible for raising funds [and] gathering supplies.”

Muna Musiitwa ’02, who serves as the regional coordinator of ACAC chapters, said that Davidson’s chapter has adopted the Women’s AIDS Support Network in Harare, Zimbabwe. The Support Network’s main goal is to increase HIV/AIDS awareness among females of all ages. Similarly, the Davidson ACAC organization is assisting a local HIV/AIDS awareness group called the Metrolina AIDS Project in whatever ways it can.

Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is a life-threatening illness caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). Once inside the bloodstream, the virus attacks the immune system, leaving the body susceptible to opportunistic infections. There is still no known cure.

* Nationally there are somewhere between 630,000 and 897,000 people with HIV.
* Globally there are about 17 million people with HIV.
* AIDS is the second leading cause of death among Americans ages 25-44.
* One out of every four people who become infected with HIV is under the age of 20.
* Every day, over 8,000 people, nearly half of them women, are newly infected with HIV.
* AIDS has become the leading cause of death for African-American men between the ages of 35 and 44.
* Although Latinos make up only 10% of the U.S. population, they account for 17% of AIDS cases.

Source: http://www.unm.edu/~willow/aids/facts.html

Fowler, from page 2

stripped from him in 1994, just before he was exiled from the country. He has even tried to overthrow the ruling Saudi government for “corruption” — meaning Western friendship. “We are very proud, I think justifiably so, that they have been our solid ally over the last 40 years,” he said, citing Saudi help during Desert Storm. “It has been a partnership of shared interest, and in many cases shared values.”

Like so many other Americans, Fowler has a dramatic and emotional personal story about September 11 itself. He was flying to New York on business, and as the plane came within sight of New York City he could see thick black smoke coming from the World Trade Center — only minutes after the first plane had hit. His first thought was of his daughter, who worked for American Express in the World Trade Center. Fortunately, she escaped unharmed after she felt the shock of the first plane’s impact.

Despite the horror of the attacks, Fowler expressed hope that something good could be salvaged. “One of the greatest things that have come out of Sept. 11 is that people are hungry about information about Islam, information about Saudi Arabia, information about our foreign policy. The heart of all of that is what at Davidson we can say is education — studying at each other’s schools and visiting each other’s families.”

Four seniors selected as finalists for fellowship

Timothy Cook
Managing Editor

Four Davidson College seniors have been selected as finalistsin nationwide competition for a scholarship that funds its winners in traversing the globe to satisfy their intellectual curiosity. Danielle F. Dillard, Amber L. Hartman, Jason C. Hollis, and Adam J. Norris were selected on the basis of proposals which included studying human relationships with sea turtles, investigating the history of human beauty, and health care research. If they are included among the 60 winners the Thomas J. Watson Foundation will announce in March, the students will receive $23,000 to pursue their projects around the world during the next year. The Watson Foundation annually accepts nominees from 50 colleges and universities across the country, including Davidson.

Dillard, an English major from Greenville, S.C., has titled her project “Thin and Now: Interpretations of Large Bodies Discovered Through Images and Interview.” She explained, “My project focuses on the ever-changing concept of beauty.” Dillard will look at the progression of artistic interpretations of women to analyze how notions of feminine beauty are read and interpreted worldwide. She will examine a number of pop cultural icons, Mesolithic fertility goddesses, and artists such as Rembrandt, Rubens, and Titian in countries such as Turkey, Italy, Sicily, Malta, the UK, American Samoa, Japan, and Sweden.

Hartman, a biology major from Stuart, Fla., said her project examines cross-cultural differences in palliative care at grass-roots hospices in three poverty-stricken countries. The goal of her project is to understand whether a spiritual framework is necessary for dealing with death on a regular basis, and what influences most directly shape this spiritual framework. Hartman said, “In my volunteer work and employment with hospice, I have observed that hospice’s holistic approach to end-of-life care appeals to caretakers with a developed and deep understanding of God and the cycle of life.” She continued, “This particular Watson proposal is quite personal to me. My grandfather, who worked with hospice for many years as a volunteer and read extensively on the subject, got me interested in the movement about five years ago. He passed away this summer in the care of hospice, so writing this proposal has truly been a catharsis.”

Hollis, a political science major from Hamburg, N.Y., plans to explore the relationships between coastal communities and sea turtles in Kenya, Costa Rica, Seychelles, and the Cook Islands. “The coastal communities in each country are engaging in innovative species protection programs that are mutually beneficial for the local people and the sea turtles,” Hollis said. “My goal is to see how the people interact with the sea turtles on both an individual basis and in an aggregate, community basis, and see how relationships are affected—people to people, people to animal, and people to environment.”

Norris, an economics major from McConnelsville, Ohio, plans to explore differences in rural health care delivery in Switzerland, New Zealand, Palau, and Costa Rica. “The services I chose range from the world’s finest privatized health care system in Switzerland to systems in the developing world,” he said. He also will examine New Zealand’s innovative strategies to care for rural indigenous communities, and the emphasis on preventative care in the isolated island chain of Palau. In the developing nation of Costa Rica, he will look at care in a mountain town that serves both indigenous populations and Panamanian refugees. “The goal of the project is to experience and learn from these health care systems with a hands-on approach,” he said. “I hope to emerge with some ideas for improving our own health care system in the United States.”

Mrs. Thomas J. Watson, Sr., founded the Thomas J. Watson Foundation in 1961 as a charitable trust in honor of her late husband. The Foundation initially used its resources in support of a variety of programs. In 1968, in recognition of Mr. and Mrs. Watson’s long-standing interest in education and world affairs, their children decided that the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Program should constitute the major activity of the Foundation. Since that date, the Fellowship Program has granted more than 2,000 Watson Fellowship awards with stipends totaling approximately $23 million. About 60 Davidson students have received Watson Fellowships.

The Wheatberry Since 1951
The Soda Shop
Coke Vanilla Coke
Phosphates Lime-Ade