Fundraising event.
No sales required.
Dates are filling quickly, so call today!
Contact Campusfinder.com at (888) 923-3238.

Oops —

Earn $2,000 this semester with my easy Campusfinder.com three-hour program.

Campus Police Blotter

The Police Blotter will return next week.

"[It is a] misconception that sorority girls are extremely picky when it comes to choosing new members and only pick the best looking and then during sisterhood do terrible things to the girls. All my sorority friends could not stop elaborating on how sweet the older sisters were to them and that all throughout their freshman years they received breakfast in bed, bedtime stories, and pamper-me baskets."

A group representing the pro-sorority movement has met with President Vagt. "Basically we discussed the reasons why sororities were not brought on campus when this issue arose a few years ago and we are taking those into consideration as we move forward with our process to start a sorority here at Davidson," Tate explained.

President Vagt was careful to stress that 1998’s decision is in no way binding or permanent. "Times change, people change, needs change," he acknowledged. "At that time, women on the campus were opposed [to the idea of sororities]."

However, many Davidson women still aren’t quite sure if sororities would be a positive addition to the campus. Some fear that the presence of women’s Greek organizations would diminish Davidson’s unique eating houses. Others felt that Davidson’s small size did not warrant the creation of even smaller organizations.

Tate acknowledged the opposition but is not convinced by their arguments. "Sororities offer a small, intimate experience, focus on service and provide a sense of family within the house among its members. Plus, if men can have the option to choose between Greek life, an eating house, and being independent, why shouldn’t women be offered the same freedom?"

Supporters of a Davidson sorority will be holding a meeting on Wednesday at 7:30 pm in the 900 Room.

Study Outside Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute sponsors an off-campus study program that combines coursework in religion, philosophy, literature, and art with backpacking, climbing, biking, and paddling.

Limited space available for the Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 — Dec. 10

Visit the CRI website to request an application.

Castle Rock Institute
P.O. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712
828-862-3759
www.castle-rock.org

Summer Employment

UP ON THE LATEST TECHNOLOGY?

The Office of College Communications seeks a summer student employee to assist with Web design, the integration of content with templates, image cataloging, and other site development tasks as needed. Student should be familiar with HTML and basic Web design concepts. Experience with Dreamweaver and Fireworks or Photoshop preferred.

If interested, please send a resume and cover letter to:
Sandra Tucker, Editor of New Media
College Communications
satucker@davidson.edu