THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Caroline HAUSER
Sports Editor

One by one, most of last week’s sporting events were either cancelled or postponed as news broke of the four
terrorist hijackings and subsequent attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C.

On Thursday, Sept. 13, the Southern Conference cancelled all games through Sunday, Sept. 16. “The Southern Conference wishes to join
with the rest of the nation’s major athletic conferences and organizations in showing its expression of sorrow for the victims
and families of this week’s national tragedy,” said Interim Commissioner Geoff Cabe. “We continue to believe that it is necessary
for the nation to return to a sense of normalcy as quickly as possible. However, judging by sentiments being expressed
around the nation today, it is obvious that moment is not at hand.”

Davidson schedule changes

The volleyball match scheduled for Tuesday night at Wofford was postponed until Thursday, Sept. 27, at 7 p.m. Friday’s match
against Chattanooga, originally rescheduled for Sunday, and Saturday’s match against Western Carolina have been postponed. No make-up dates have been
announced.

Wednesday’s women’s soccer match against Elon was postponed, with a tentative make-up date of Sunday, Sept. 23, at 1 p.m.
Saturday’s match at The Citadel was tentatively rescheduled for Sunday, Oct. 7 at 2 p.m.

The men’s soccer game with Radford was moved from Saturday, Sept. 15 to Sunday, Sept. 16. The teams played to
a 4-1 Davidson win in Richardson Stadium.

The Saturday field hockey match at Radford was postponed; no make-up date has been announced. Sunday’s match at Appalachian State
has been postponed; no make-up date has been announced.

For only the second time in school history, the Homecoming weekend football game was cancelled. The game with Drake may
be rescheduled, but no date has been announced.

Saturday’s Winthrop Invitational, a meet for the men and women’s cross country teams, was cancelled.

Kropski leads Cats in golf

By Caroline Hauser
Sports Editor

The Davidson golf team opened its year with a 17th-place finish out of 20 teams in the Sea Trail Intercollegiate
Tournament in Sunset Beach, N.C.

After a first-round score of 76, sophomore Jon Kropski finished 8th overall with a two-day, 36-hole 151.

Senior captain P.J. Martin tied at second for Davidson and 70th overall, both shooting a 163.

Charleston Southern won the Elon-hosted tournament with a team score of 586. Davidson finished 45 strokes back at 641.

Next weekend, September 22-23, the Wildcats will travel to Harrisonburg, VA, to compete in the James Madison Invitational, the second
of their four fall tournaments.

“Patriotism,” continued from pg. 12

play fair, but no matter, for my team will win because it stands resolute and as one.

“Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more.”

Back in reality, I understand that not everyone feels the hurt and loss. I vividly remember a girl asking me
why I looked so sad on Tuesday morning, and when I asked her if she’d seen the news her response
was, “Oh, yeah, but you know, it doesn’t really affect me that much. I don’t know.”

And I know not everyone feels the patriotism—not xenophobia—induced by the assault on our homeland. I guess that understanding hit
me when I read the words “is responsible” scrawled under the letters, “U.S.A.” I had written on my whiteboard.

This week we’re all going on with our lives; athletic competition resumes, schoolwork never stopped, and vigils and prayer services
cease until the next tragedy. I guess we’re to draw from all this that the sun will indeed rise tomorrow.
I don’t know—all I want is the t.v. cameras off my campus.

confidence, pride, and plenty of time to shower before calculus.

In Army ROTC, you'll get to do some pretty challenging stuff. Stuff that builds character and discipline. Not to mention
muscles. You'll also learn how to think on your feet and be a good leader. Talk to your Army ROTC
advisor to find out more. And be ready to sweat a little.

For scholarship and enrollment information visit www.armyrotc.com

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR
DEAN & DELUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

DAVIDSON COLLEGE PEP BAND

Looking for new members to play at all Wildcat basketball home games

Flute
Clarinet
Saxophone
Horn
Trumpet
Trombone
Baritone
Tuba
Bass guitar
Drum set

Join the pep band to be a part of awesome music!

Good times! Good friends! Great basketball!
Contact Martin
