Versatile Parvin keys Wildcats' recent win streak

Senior Jeremiah Parvin has contributed on the mound and behind the plate this season for the Wildcats.

Sports Information By ANDREA LYTLE Guest Writer

The crew team was thrilled to have three of its four boats qualify for finals competition at its second regatta
of the season, the Clemson Sprints at Lake Hartwell, S.C. The three boats advanced by finishing first or second in
preliminary heats at the annual event, now in its 11th year.

After easily winning its first 2,000-meter heat, the varsity men’s team advanced and edged out Wheaton College by two-tenths of
a second to win a silver medal. “For the entire body of the course it was a struggle,” said senior
rower Aaron Patton. “(They would) start gaining on us and we’d pull ahead again, and the cycle would repeat.”

The hard-fought race, rowers say, gave them confidence. “The afternoon final showed that with each regatta our crew is gaining
confidence that we can now row with anyone in the Southeast and challenge for a victory,” said senior coxswain Jason
Todd. Added Patton: “A second place finish at Clemson puts us into excellent position going into the Southeastern championships,” which
will be held later this month.

The varsity women’s team did not make the finals, but rowers say they’re in a good position to race well
at the upcoming championships. “We pushed ourselves, the boat moved together and we all felt like the race was a
great learning experience,” said Jamie Causey, a sophomore coxswain and crew president. “Despite the fact that there were some disappointments
in the finals, I think we should all be proud as to the direction we’re headed.”

Both novice teams placed high enough in their first heats to qualify for finals. The novice women were particularly excited
about their sixth-place finish in the finals because they felt they had something to prove. “After a frustrating first regatta,
we were all really ready to do well, to show everyone that we could compete,” said freshman Kate Giguere. “And
we did. Our boat worked together in our race better than we have all season.”

The novice men were also pleased, especially with their first-place finish in the preliminary heats. Like the varsity men, the
novice men also faced tough competition from Wheaton. The two boats traded leads throughout most of the race, but Davidson
managed to pull away from them in the last 500 meters to capture fourth place. “Even though we fell out
of contention for a third-place medal, I feel like we now know how to advance on our competitors and eventually
beat them,” said sophomore rower John Franklin.

Team members say the showing at Clemson proves they are building a strong rowing program. “A team like ours is
not going to simply jump onto the scene and make a big name for ourselves,” said senior Jason Todd. “It
takes time and effort, but we’re definitely on the right track.”takes hard work and building a program is not an
easy task. So first and foremost I feel that despite the fact that there were some disappointments in the finals,
I think we should all be proud as to the direction we’re headed.”

By Hinps Howakb
Staff Writer

He is the only position player on the baseball team who also starts as a pitcher one game every weekend.
He is one of two people at Davidson involved in Air Force ROTC. After college, he hopes to fly military
planes. He doesn’t enjoy watching baseball. He is from Rocky Mount, N.C. Of all the things that make senior Jeremiah
Parvin unique, however, none stand out as much as his intense competitive spirit.

Four-year teammate Ryan Stroker, who shares the outfield with Parvin, summed him up best: “Jeremiah will not back down from
anybody,” he said. “He goes right after them every time. He has been very effective this year because of his
toughness and willingness to attack the middle of the plate. That’s just how he is.”

Parvin’s aggressive pitching style doesn’t earn him a lot of stats or recognition, but it helps his team win. Since
being inserted into the weekend rotation, the Wildcats have won the four games in which Parvin started, although he’s only
received two decisions. He is a big part of the reason that the Wildcats have won six of their past
nine games and are in the hunt for one of the Southern Conference’s eight playoff spots.

Parvin says he is excited about his new role on the team and its recent success, but his future plans
go beyond baseball. He has been in Air Force ROTC the past four years and was selected for a pilot
slot, meaning that instead of the normal four-year commitment after college, he has signed on for ten years to become
an Air Force pilot. As he describes the program and his opportunity to fly fighter planes and bombers, his eyes
light up.

“I was fortunate enough to get selected for a pilot slot, so I have a ten-year commitment after Davidson,” he
said. “I will start this summer with flight training and from there I will progress on to fighters or bombers.”

The training program consists of two classes a week on Tuesday and Thursday. Head Coach Dick Cooke gave him permission
to miss practice on those days. “Outside of our conditioning, he is in great shape, both mentally and physically,” he
said. “The rigors of throwing 100-plus pitches are not taxing from a physical standpoint.”

The game of baseball is just that for Parvin, a game. He rarely watches the sport on television and has
been to just two professional games. “I am not a big baseball fan and I don’t really enjoy watching it.
Being from Rocky Mount, NC, there isn’t much baseball around to get excited about. The nearest team is eight hours
away,” he said.

Scenes from the Wildcats’ weekend series against The Citadel, courtesy of Davidson Sports Information. Clockwise from top left: Sophomore D.J.
Dailey at the plate; senior ace Wes Self fires from the mound; senior first baseman Dylan Deal (No. 23) awaits
a throw from junior second baseman Jack Purcell during warmups.
