Visiting director opens The Robber Bridegroom this week
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Planes are hijacked with box cutters. They crash into buildings. Our structures fall. We die of diseases sent to us in the mail. My nail clipper is confiscated at the airport, and I feel like a criminal. What has happened to the good old days of stuttering presidents? Of missing interns? How I long for the Unabomber. Perhaps not the Unabomber, but maybe one of his contemporaries. Not something gentler, but something easier to grasp. I don’t want to turn my back and live a blissfully ignorant life; I do want to turn my head for a few moments and see, read, or experience something that I can feign to comprehend.

On Monday I met with Keith Martin to discuss the theater department’s production of The Robber Bridegroom. Mr. Martin’s and his colleagues’ premise for the musical — adapted from a Eudora Welty novella, itself based on a tale by the Brothers Grimm — was simple: “...to lovingly recreate a rural America during a kinder and simpler time.” Indeed, The Robber Bridegroom (books and lyrics by Alfred Uhry, music by Robert Waldman) inhabits not an ideal world, but one where motives are clear and where folk dance, song, and tongue-in-cheek humor reign.

This production is a celebration of the talent in Davidson’s student body. Only two of the eighteen cast members are theater majors. And the number eighteen is itself impressive: originally planning to cast only twelve, Mr. Martin decided to fill the stage with eighteen, a testament to the wealth of talent in the audition pool and the school as a whole. And a student, Bill Neville ‘03, designed the play’s set, with its decaying mansion, water-sprouting grotto, branch bridge, and swing.

The story takes place in 1910, as a group tells tales of their ancestors’ generation circa 1795. Before there were many steam engines and heavy traffic on the Mississippi, Jamie Lockhart (Luke Farmer ’04) leads the life of a Natchez Trace bandit, stealing not only material goods but also the affections of Rosamund (Laura Filosi ’05). The premise provides for a number of dance sequences (choreographed by Martin) that add to the lighthearted nature of the play.

What is to be valued in Uhry’s book is his narrative technique. The musical brings back the tradition of storytelling, a definitive characteristic of America and, especially, Southern culture. And above that, this production is timely not only because of recent events, but also because of Eudora Welty’s death on July 23, 2001. One of our premier writers of short stories and novels, Welty left an indelible mark on American fiction. The cast and crew dedicate their performances to her.

The Robber Bridegroom will play October 25 and 31 and November 1, 2, and 3 at 8 p.m. Also, there is a 2 p.m. performance on October 28. All shows are in Hodson Hall in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets are $12 for general admission, $10 for faculty, staff, and senior citizens, and $8 for students. Call (704) 894-2340 for reservations and more information.

From Hell to Hedwig: three must-see flicks
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

From Hell, playing everywhere, restores some faith in Hollywood — the aforementioned Shrek being the only other notable mainstream release this year. This stylistic who-done-it joins Seven and Elizabeth as one of the recent best in the genre, that gothic and gruesome variety steeped in atmosphere and murder. From Hell is the best looking film of the year, and its screenplay doesn’t undermine its visual greatness. The Hughes Brothers (Menace II Society) direct Johnny Depp in their account of the Jack the Ripper legend. Depp is Abberline, a brilliant detective that relies heavily on psychic visions and opium. During his investigation, Abberline comes upon a number of colorful supporting characters, each adding to the film’s atmosphere. Heather Graham’s prostitute, with her fiery red hair and ever-present cleavage, is nothing more than a prop, and even as that, she does not go to waste. The Hughes exploit every inch of the screen, actors included, to enrich the atmosphere of their film. Graham and her fellow “unfortunates” bring sensuality, helplessness, and humanity to the movie. Then there’s the always-wonderful Ian Holm. Here he plays doctor to the Royal Family and mentor to Abberline. To say that Holm has an amazing range would be incorrect, yet, each of his characters emerge as distinct individuals. While its acting and script are more than sound, From Hell excels with its style.

Hedwig and the Angry Inch is an exuberant, over-the-top rock musical. It’s part The Rocky Horror Picture Show, part Waiting for Guffman, and part Pink Floyd’s The Wall. The “Hedwig” of the title refers to director John Cameron Mitchell’s character, an East German “slip of a girly boy.” And “The Angry Inch” refers to Hedwig’s band, itself a reference best explained by one song’s lyrics: Six inches forward, five inches back/I’ve got an angry inch! And indeed Hedwig does, but it’s what he/she has to work with. Pronouns are especially problematic when discussing Hedwig: the film exists beyond gender. Take Hedwig’s partner, for example. Is she a he? Or is he a she? Maybe she was a he, or maybe he was a she? These questions are unanswered and are best ignored.

This film is a masterful blend of transvestism, transsexuals, animation, trailer homes, Greek mythology, religion, celebrity, music, and, above all, comedy. The film’s funniest moments involve a running joke about the musical Rent. And to the ladies and gentlemen who have seen Hedwig, you’ll agree that we can never look at a carwash the same way again. Hedwig and the Angry Inch is playing at AMC Concord Mills.

Finally, we have Mulholland Drive, David Lynch’s film about Hollywood. That’s as specific as a wise interpretation of the movie can be. In fact, saying that it is about Hollywood is not even wise. It’s best that...Nothing can be said about Mulholland Drive’s topic, though much will be said. Mulholland Drive works as an experience, one that we take in all at once. It’s more like a picture than a movie. Yes, characters exist. Yes, there seems to be a story. But do these elements form a cohesive whole? Most certainly not. I’m not even going to describe the story. That task would be like drawing an accurate picture of God. What I do know is that Mulholland Drive pins you to your seat, makes you laugh, makes your heart leap into your throat, and if you enjoy watching beautiful women make love, then it will get the attention of your gonads, as well. Mulholland Drive is a sexy, frightening, illogical masterpiece. Now playing at The Manor in Charlotte.

Nothing Shocking that Jane’s still rocking

STERLING ROZEAR
Staff Writer

While most of you were on planes or in cars headed home for fall break, I was surrounded by a haze of marijuana, exotic dancers, and violent Jane’s Addiction fans. Sucks for you. The quintessential alternative rock band’s return to the stage was an amazing experience. And in case you’re wondering, Dave Navarro, Perry Farrell, and Stephen Perkins definitely still have it. All of this took place on Friday, October 12, at Verizon Wireless Amphitheater. The show started with Perry Farrell wearing a huge dress, complete with several dancers underneath, mimicking the laid-back, ambient mood of their first songs. While the band rocked songs like “Ted, Just Admit It” and “Classic Girl,” the dancers spread out among the audience and grooved on little stages built among the seats. Navarro’s balls-to-the-wall playing and rock and roll attitude, combined with Farrell’s over-the-top theatrics and dancers (men and women), made for an intense show. The band even made an effort for the fans on the lawn. Halfway through their set, they moved out to a special stage in the middle of the amphitheater and played a stripped-down set, including “Jane Says” and a song from Navarro’s solo project. They then returned to the stage for another forty-five minutes or so. For their encore, Perry Farrell spouted patriotic messages about courage, and the remaining members of the band played a complex rhythm on three drums. If anyone had questions as to whether the band could still put on a strong show after years of being separated, the answer is a strong “yes.” This concert was two hours of the best alternative rock I’ve ever seen. If you get a chance to see them on the remainder of this tour, don’t let it pass you by.

Ugly Duck, J5: Keepin’ it real in the rap world

By MICHAEL GALDO
Staff Writer

According to KRS-One, “Rap is something you do, hip-hop is something you live.” For a long time, I felt that all the rap music on the radio was garbage and was simply a commercial tool. The only genuine hip-hop music wasn’t making appearances on TRL, but was crafted in makeshift studios and being sold in small stores and over the internet. It was being spun by DJs in little clubs, not blasted on the radio in between P. Diddy’s newest single and some remix by Jermaine Dupri. However, recently I realized two things: commercial rap has its place in this world and good hip-hop music is out there if you have the time to look for it. I remember sitting in my dorm room last semester and realizing that I liked Trick Daddy’s single “Take it to tha House.” That was a sacrilege. I wasn’t supposed to enjoy listening to Trick Daddy, The Hot Boys, or anything that even smelled like Master P. But those groups are fun. They don’t have a social message, and they’re definitely not original. It’s entertainment. As a result, I stopped myself from preaching at people about their music choice. If they enjoy listening to commercial rap, then they should listen to whatever they want. Nevertheless, I do feel that I should at least expose people to some of the actual hip-hop that has come out in the last few years, to groups that have an element of originality and something to say besides “look at my ice, my hoes, and my ride.” Two groups out of LA that everyone should know are Ugly Duckling and Jurassic 5. Ugly Duckling formed in the mid-90s and adopted their name because of the contrast between their style and that of the California-driven gangsta’ rap that dominated the 90s. The most prevalent distinction between Ugly Duckling and other groups is their lyrics. Their creative and often humorous lyrics such as, “we’ve been eatin’, breathin’, and sleepin’ hip hop since way back/When shoe laces were fat and Michael Jackson was black/So when we cook up a track and attack like Red Sonia/We’re gonna lay it on ya...” allow the group to recapture the emphasis on fun that one can find in old school groups like the Sugar Hill Gang and Afrika Bambaataa. Jurassic 5 also turns away from the gangsta’ rap style, but their uniqueness comes to the surface as their producers Cut Chemist and DJ Nu-Mark mold the beats that the group raps and sings over. “Jurass Finish First,” “Quality Control,” and “World of Entertainment” are three tracks that best demonstrate the group’s talent and originality on the turntables and on the mic. There are many other groups that are slightly more mainstream and commercial that have put out solid albums. The most obvious example that I am sure everyone has heard is Outkast. Some have described their music as “otherground” since it is no longer underground due to its commercial success, but still retains that fresh spirit that characterizes underground hip-hop. Other talented artists are Hi-Tek, Talib Kweli, Common, Cormega, Dilated Peoples, and Camp Lo. All of these groups have made money and achieved some popularity, but don’t feel the need to remind us of that every two lines in their songs. They still sound new and original and have managed to remain relatively uninfluenced by the recording industry.