By KATHERINE CULP
Staff Writer

On Saturday afternoon, while many students were visiting with their families, the swim and dive teams hosted the East Carolina
Pirates in Davidson’s first home match of the season. After some fierce competition, the Wildcat women lost 131-96, and the
Pirates defeated the men 129-80.

The Wildcats boasted some amazing swims, including two times that placed third in Davidson records, as well as triumphs in
both the men’s and the women’s 200 free relays. For the Wildcats, Melissa Marquez ’05 won the 100 breaststroke in
1:08.13, placing her third in Davidson records. Right behind her were teammates Joanie Gidas ’04 and Sarah Budischak ’05. The
women dominated in the 200 free relay, securing the top three places for the Wildcats. The winning team, composed of
Jennifer Hoekestra ’05, Trisha Blackwell ’05, Erin Rosintoski ’04, and Kendra Berner ’02, finished in 1:42.05. Third place finishers included
Trisha Blackwell ’05 in the 100 back and Shelley Conroy ’02 in the 100 fly. Both Blackwell and Conroy swam
the third fastest times in Davidson records for their respective events.

The men’s performance was just as impressive. Foster Matthews ’05 secured a first-place finish in the 100 breaststroke. For the
second meet in a row, Robert Koch ’04 won the 100 free in 48.43. The Wildcats won the final event—the
men’s 200 free relay—with Michael Warner ’02, Nick Blackwell ’02, Steven Reece ’02, and Michael Flowers ’05.

The swim team was satisfied with the results. According to co-captain Kendra Berner, “We had some really phenomenal swims yesterday.
We had people swimming to personal bests, or close to it, and close to school records as well.”

For the divers, Judit Otvos ’05, with a score of 170.40, won the three-meter dive, while teammate Jenny Bruggers ’04
placed second. This Saturday, the Wildcat swimmers and divers will travel to Richmond, VA. In the morning, the men will
take on VMI, and the women will face the University of Richmond in the afternoon.

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
FINEST QUALITY EYEWEAR IN THE AREA
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR
DEAN & DELUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY
Continuing our policy of offering Davidson students, faculty & employees a 20% discount on eyewear and special prices on eye
exams.

Spring Break with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
Promote trips on campus, earn cash and free trips
Information/Reservations: 1-800-648-4849
www.ststravel.com
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida, and Mardi Gras needed...Travel Free, Earn $$$. Group Discounts for 6+ www.leisuretours.com

Injuries plague soccer
By NICHOLAS CARLSON
Staff Writer

Davidson’s women’s soccer team found no cure for their non-conference woes last Saturday in a loss to High Point University.
Outscored 3-1, the Wildcats fell to 1-8 outside of their conference. To make things worse, the loss ended a 7-game
losing streak for the Panthers, raising their record to a paltry 3-10-1.

Junior Heather Maloney’s penalty shot in the first half wasn’t enough for the Wildcats. Panther Carolyn Bader was the difference
maker on Saturday, as she ended a one-all tie by scoring twice in the second half. Her unassisted goals at
the 49:48 and 53:57 marks sealed the game for High Point. High Point took 11 shots on goaltender Meghan Ferriter
to Davidson’s 14. Ferriter made her fifthStart of the season in place of injured starter Sarah Hobart. Despite the most
recent loss, Hobart has liked what she has seen from her replacement so far. “[Ferriter] has really stepped up for
the first time,” said the freshman keeper. More importantly, Hobart is encouraged by the team’s reaction to her injury. “I
think it really brought us together as a team, relying on all of our strengths. We really had to play
harder, especially in the back.” Hobart is optimistic about her knee injury, which was once thought to be season-ending. She
believes she may be back for the Conference tournament on November 8-11. Ferriter has at least one great challenge still
ahead of her, as Hobart will not be back in time for the big Southern Conference match-up against UNC Greensboro
on Wednesday at 7 pm in Richardson Stadium.

Tennis teams show promise for the spring
By JASON BLANFORD
Staff Writer

Just how deep is the Davidson women’s tennis team? With five entering freshmen and nine returning members, this year’s Wildcats
could offer one of the most balanced attacks in recent years. After competing in three fall tournaments, the young ’Cats
are commanding their share of respect. Head coach Caroline Price is one of those believers, saying, “There’s lots of energy
between the upperclassmen and freshmen—you can’t help but get fired up.” Freshmen Kelley and Meghan Fillnow will cause trouble for
foes on the courts this spring as the top doubles team. These two will be closely followed by the powerful
co-captain twosome of Kelley Cantrell and Yasamina Hilu. Kelley Fillnow will be pulling double duty as the number one singles
player for the Wildcats.

This spring, the Wildcats look to improve on the 2001 season and push for a Southern Conference championship, something that
has never been accomplished. Co-captain Kelley Cantrell proclaimed, “We’ve worked hard in the fall and want to challenge the top
teams for the championship.” At the ITA Regional Tournament this past weekend in Winston-Salem, the school’s top singles player and
two top doubles teams of Cantrell and Hilu took a tough 8-5 loss to UNC-Charlotte. The top singles player, Kelley
Fillnow, lost in the first round to Chapel Hill’s Leigh Barios in straight sets, 6-3, 7-5. However, the dominant Fillnow
twin duo clawed their way into the mix. They defeated Austin Peay 8-2, and nearly beat the 30th-ranked Duke team
in an 8-5 clincher.

Like the women, the Davidson men’s tennis team will look for support from its younger members. The makeup of the
2002 team is much younger than in years past and will look to its two seniors for direction and leadership.
With three of the top four players graduating, head coach Jeff Frank was skeptical before being reassured by Davidson’s fall
match play. “Four out of our top six players are newcomers,” he said. “That shows promise and assures me that
the freshmen are ready to play.”

This past weekend, seniors Chad Weinberger and David Webb represented the men’s tennis team at the ITA Regional Tournament at
Chapel Hill, NC. Playing singles, Chad Weinberger was convincingly beaten in the first round 6-0, 7-5. Weinberger rebounded from his
defeat to pair with Webb in a rough loss to the tournament’s eventual doubles finalist team from James Madison University,
8-2. The region’s top 64 players attended and played extremely competitive tennis. “This tournament is a good indicator of how
far players have come since last year,” said Frank. “It gives the guys good exposure to tough matches, the type
they’ll have this spring.”

The men and women of Davidson College open team play on January 31 at Chapel Hill, NC before heading to
Asheville, NC on February 7.
