Painter and printmaker blends his unique coloration and design with the figure in a new exhibit at the William H.
Van Every Gallery of the Belk Visual Arts Center on display from March 12 through April 22. The Edward M.
Smith Gallery will feature work by Shepard Fairey.

Maria Irene Fornes, McGee Professor of Writing and artist-in-residence at Davidson, will direct a workshop production of a new work,
based on Gertrude Stein’s Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas. The play will contain adult themes and content and is recommended
for mature audiences. Show times are March 20-24 at 7:30 p.m., and March 25 at 2 p.m. in the Black
Box Theater of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. For reservations call between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m.

By AMBER PARKE

Staff Writer

Rrirrriiinnnngggg...... You wake up groggy, grumpy and fumbling for the phone: “Hello?” No response. “Hello?” you say again, this time
the annoyance in your voice a little more clear.

Davidson students have been noticing an increase in these calls at such obscene hours as 7, 8, and 9 a.m.
And they’re not from your mother.

“One morning I got three calls!” exclaimed Alaina Beach, '04, “And each time I told them ‘no’ and they just
called back again!” Lately, similar frustrations are being voiced by more and more of the student body.

Gray Patterson took this issue to the SGA. “At first, we thought that the college might be selling student numbers
to these companies,” he said. “But President Vagt told us that that was not the case.” So Patterson took his
concerns to Marcia Makl, Davidson’s Director of Networks and Systems.

“This is not the first time we have had to deal with telemarketers,” Makl recalls. Two years ago, AT&T was
harassing both Davidson students and professors. We had so many complaints that we were able to call the company and
request that the school be removed from their call list.

See Telemarketing, page 4

Fraternities - Sororities

Clubs - Student Groups

Student Groups - earn $1,000 to $2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three-hour fundraising event.

No sales required.

Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today!

Contact Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com.

Schedule of Events:

Friday, March 23rd:

1:15 Nature Hunt with Ada Jenkins Children

Saturday, March 24th:

9:00 No Big Deal (Cast Iron Filter cover band), 900 Room
Campout on Belk Lawn after No Big Deal plays

Sunday, March 25th:

9:00 a.m. Campus-wide service project on the Adopt-a-Road stretch of I-77.
8:00 p.m. Movie on Belk Lawn - Pelican Brief

Monday, March 26th:

8:00 p.m. David Holthouser, Head of Physical Plant, speaks in the Morrison Room on what Davidson has done, is doing,
and will do to make Davidson more environmentally sound.

Tuesday, March 27th:

7:00 p.m. Environmental Poetry Reading and Music on Union Patio
Come write letters in Chambers to support the National Arctic Wildlife Refuge.

SGA welcomes new senators

Press Release

At last week’s General Meeting of the SGA Senate, Joey Harris swore in three new senators.

The first, Patrick Clark, was nominated by Harris and confirmed by the Senate to fill an open seat among Independent
Senators.

Clark, a junior Spanish major from Ridgeland, S.C., is now one of six senators specifically representing the 743 Independents on
campus. The other five, who were elected on September 25, are: Kells Hetherington, Doug Santschi, Gray Lyons, David Kang, and
Anthony Albert.

Clark will be filling the vacancy created by Chris Lewis, a graduating senior who was also elected in September.

“Patrick flat out has the right stuff,” said Harris. “He’s hard-working, he’s sincere about wanting to make a difference at
Davidson through the SGA. All that came through loud and clear when I interviewed him, and I look forward to
having him on the Senate.”

Clark was confirmed by a unanimous vote at Tuesday night’s meeting, and will hold the office through Category I elections
next February.

Also sworn in last Tuesday night were Dave Moskowitz, elected by the brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Morgan Strecker,
elected by the Davidson International Association.

Moskowitz is a sophomore hailing from Wooster, Ohio. “I’m excited to be back in Student Government after a couple of
years off,” said Moskowitz. “I hope that we can accomplish some great things this year.”

Strecker, a sophomore from Paris, France, was elected by the Davidson International Association (formerly the International Students’ Association) to succeed
Elias Kruger, who was recently elected vice-president of DIA.

“SGA seems to be a place where a lot of things can get done,” said Strecker. “I’m really looking forward
to being a part of it. It’s an important thing for DIA, as a growing organization, to have a representative
on the SGA.”

“Morgan is the ideal person at this time to voice our ideas at SGA meetings,” said Carlos Carreras, president of
DIA. “She is good at listening, she is good at conveying, she is certainly an ideal choice for DIA’s SGA
senator.”

For further information, contact Mike Anderson (mianderson@davidson.edu, x5029).

WELCOME TO THE FINEST CHINESE CUISINE AT LAKE NORMAN

40% OFF

PENINSULA CHINA BISTRO

“EACH DISH IS DELICIOUS”

RATED 4½ STARS BY THE WONDERING GOURMET AND “THE LEADER” NEWSPAPER
