Baseball stuns The Citadel to re-enter playoff race

Strong outing from Wells, Stroker’s hitting give Wildcats two Sunday wins

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

The baseball team trudged out to the field on Sunday holding a 1-0 lead through four innings of a make-up
game, but well aware that The Citadel was capable of erasing any lead. All concerns seemed to evaporate like the
rain, however, as Davidson came out sharp and handed the dazed Bulldogs (22-7, 9-3) a pair of losses 4-3 and
15-13. A great relief/start by Mark Wells was the key to the first game and a season-high seven RBIs from
right fielder Ryan Stroker sparked the come-from-behind second win.

The Wildcats (13-17, 7-11) had prior to this series lost 10 straight games to the Bulldogs and hadn’t taken a
series from them since 1996. Head Coach Dick Cooke voiced concerns entering the game as to whether the team could
maintain its focus over the 21-hour rain delay. “It was definitely new territory for us,” he said. “I wasn’t sure
how our guys were going to react. They did a great job of coming back out. We didn’t throw Derrick
(Wolpert) again because he threw forty pitches yesterday, but Mark Wells stepped up and gave us a real quality outing.”

The 6-4 junior Wells (2-4) pitched four solid innings of relief, giving up just two earned runs on four hits
in relief of Derrick Wolpert, who tossed three scoreless innings Saturday. Wells said he felt comfortable in this unique situation
because it was a combination of a starting outing, something he struggles with, and the more comfortable relief appearance: “It
was a weird situation to come into as a pitcher. I started today with a 1-0 count, and that’s never
happened to me before,” said Wells. “I am used to coming in as a reliever, and that’s a comfortable role
for me. It had a relief feel to it today, so it wasn’t too bad, especially with a 1-0 lead.
It was like a start, but it wasn’t, so it was interesting.”

Wells surrendered one unearned run in the fifth to tie the game up, but Davidson responded with three runs over
the remainder of the game on RBI singles by first baseman James Marino, DH Matt Berry, and Co-Captain third baseman
Cassidy Lundin to pull ahead 4-1. Wells gave up two earned runs in the sixth on a massive blast off
the scoreboard by junior Dallas McPherson. The 6-3 All-American’s fifth home run on the season brought the Bulldogs within one
run 4-3. Unable to muster the troops for any sort of rally, the Bulldogs would reach base just three times
the rest of the game. Tim Frend closed out the final 1.1 innings without giving up a hit and striking
out two for the save. He needed only nine pitches in the top of the ninth to shut the door
on the weary Bulldogs.

“To come right back after the big loss Saturday (a 9-1 Bulldogs’ victory) and pull off what they did in
the second game, is just a credit to their perseverance,” said Cooke.

Game Two

Perseverance paid off for the Wildcats in the final game of the series as well. Jeremiah Parvin took the hill
in the rubber match, but quickly fell behind 1-0 in the second when Bulldog first baseman Ryan Hartig trotted home
on a wild pitch. Davidson’s bats responded in the bottom half of the inning, scoring one run on a sacrifice
fly by sophomore shortstop D.J. Dailey. With two outs, Steve Aldrich dropped a bunt single down the third baseline, and
second baseman Jack Purcell walked to load the bases for Ryan Stroker. Ripping into the first pitch, Stroker shot a
grounder through the right side for two more runs. Tim Frend followed with another single, scoring Purcell and increasing the
lead to 4-1.

The Citadel matched Davidson with four runs to take the lead 5-4 in the third inning. With the Wildcats reeling,
the Bulldogs tacked on one in the fourth and two in the fifth on a triple by Hartig, before Parvin
was pulled for Stephen Choate. James Marino closed the gap in the bottom half of the fifth with a solo
shot to right, his second homer of the series, but Davidson still trailed 8-5. The Bulldogs continued to score, with
two in the sixth on an RBI single and a throwing error by...The catcher, Marino. A sacrifice fly to center
by Stroker in the bottom of the sixth pulled Davidson within four, 10-6. Stroker took over in the eighth for
Choate, who pitched well and gave up only two runs, both unearned. Stroker didn’t last very long, however, and was
pulled for Frend after hitting two of the three batters he faced. Both of Stroker’s runners would score as Frend
gave up two singles that plated three Bulldogs' runners. Down 13-6 and facing the Bulldogs closer Randy Corn in the
bottom of the eighth, the possibility of a win was doubtful to say the least. The Wildcats would not go
down in this slugfest, though, and responded with a huge two-out rally in an inning that produced nine runs. Aldrich
slapped an 0-2 pitch back up the middle for his fourth hit of the day to open it up. Jack
Purcell banged a double off the fence in deep center to advance the hesitant Aldrich to third. Stroker knocked in
his fourth run of the afternoon with a single through the left side of the infield, but was tagged out
in a rundown during the next at-bat. Frend walked after running the count to 3-2. A fielding error cost The
Citadel on a groundball by Marino to the shortstop that scored Purcell from third. After freshman Bret Peiffer struck out
for the second out, Davidson was still down five, 13-8. Cassidy Lundin loaded the bases with an infield hit to
shortstop. Dylan Deal came through with a single through the right side, scoring Frend. Pinch hitter Billy Ryan, representing the
tying run, continued the string of singles with another through the right side, plating Marino. The Citadel coach had seen
enough and went to his bullpen. He called freshman lefty Paul Williams to the mound to try to stop the
bleeding. Davidson Head Coach Dick Cooke, not to be out-managed, responded by calling up right-handed sophomore Mark Williams to pinch-hit
for Aldrich. Williams managed to foul off a few pitches before drawing a walk, which scored Lundin and brought the
tying run to second. Purcell followed with another two-out walk on a 3-2 count. Deal trotted home to bring the
Wildcats within one run, 13-12. The Citadel’s manager went to his bullpen again and called in righty John Pollock to
face Stroker. After working Pollock into a 3-1 count, Stroker crushed a fastball over the center fielder’s head for a
bases-clearing double, putting the Wildcats up for good, 15-13. In all, the gigantic inning plated nine Wildcats on eight hits.
Frend earned the win in relief as he closed out his second game of the day, giving up only a
meek pop foul to Deal at first. Stroker’s seven RBIs for the game were the most by a Davidson player
this season. He and Aldrich each contributed four hits to the Wildcats’ total of 18. The two teams combined for
28 runs and 34 hits in an all-out offensive marathon that put Davidson back into contention for a prime tournament
seed. “The seniors have been waiting three years to beat up on The Citadel,” said Stroker. “We came in a
little tentative, but we didn’t back down, and we really went after them all weekend. This is the kind of
team that we know we are. We knew we could be this good at the beginning of the season, and
finally we are showing what we can do.” When asked why he chose to pinch-hit for Steve Aldrich in the
eighth when Aldrich already had four hits on the day, Cooke responded, “With Steve coming up and a left-hander on
the mound, I wanted to go with a right-handed batter. Steve had a great day, but Mark (Williams) is a
little bigger and stronger than he is, and we were still down by three runs. I took a chance on
the possibility that Mark could get an extra-base hit. Mark has the ability to put one into the gap.”

Davidsonian Player of the Week
Ryan Stroker
The senior outfielder drove in seven RBIs in baseball’s two upsets over The Citadel

BASEBALL
Apr. 7 @ East Tennessee State (2) 2:00
Apr. 8 @ East Tennessee State 1:00
Apr. 10 @ UNC Asheville 3:00

LACROSSE
Apr. 7 Richmond 1 p.m.

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 5 UNC Greensboro 3 p.m.
Apr. 9 Wofford 3 p.m.

MEN’S TRACK
Apr. 6-7 Duke Invitational, Durham
Apr. 7 Georgia Southern 11 a.m.

WOMEN’S TRACK
Apr. 6-7 Georgia Tech Invitational
Apr. 8 Georgia Southern 1 p.m.

MEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 5 @ Wofford 3 p.m.
Apr. 7 The Citadel 1 p.m.
