By Colin EAGAN
Staff Writer

Changes are in the works for the Dean Rusk Program at Davidson College. On June 1, French professor Homer Sutton will become interim head of the program until a permanent director is established in July 2002. Dean of Faculty Clark Ross asked Sutton to fill the position when Ambassador Ken Brown leaves the program in June. Brown has served as head for six years and will become the president of the Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training in Washington, D.C.

The offering of the position came as a surprise to the 19-year faculty member, who welcomes this short “detour” in his career. This is not the first bend in the road. Sutton has performed what he jovially dubs “utility work” before on campus, having served as interim Dean of Admissions from 1992-93. Sutton brings much expertise to his post.

“I am delighted that Homer Sutton is willing to serve as the interim director,” said Ross. “Dr. Sutton was involved in the founding of the program and has always been a loyal supporter of program activities.” Ross noted that Sutton served as director of Study Abroad from 1984 to 1994. In the late 1990s, he co-directed a task force on issues relating to international students with Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano. “He has had extensive experience with all aspects of Davidson’s international programs and efforts,” observed Ross.

And Sutton’s international experience has been broad, having lived overseas on and off for over 12 years. The 1971 Davidson College graduate received his MA and Ph.D. from Indiana University in 1979. He taught English in Nice in 1971-1972 and obtained a Rotary Graduate Fellowship to Lausanne, Switzerland in 1972-1973. Sutton then taught English at the Sorbonne Nouvelle in Paris from 1977-1979.

“Dr. Sutton has extensive experience and deep interest in international studies,” observed Brown. “He can be expected to do an admirable job as interim director of the Dean Rusk Program.”

Sutton speaks very highly of international programming on campus. “Davidson is unique in having the Dean Rusk Program of International Studies,” he commented. “I was involved with the creation of the program, and I think it has done so much to internationalize the Davidson campus. I hope to continue that tradition throughout the year, utilizing my colleagues, who are already doing great things internationally.”

Sutton refers to the stats as signs of success, pointing out that over 75% of Davidson students will have studied abroad by the time they graduate. More than 100 students from 30 foreign countries are currently enrolled in classes. “We have a great resource for internationalization,” Sutton continued. “I hope to work very closely with Study Abroad and international students to try and meld common objectives and achieve common goals in internationalization.”

With such aspirations, tasks as director of the Dean Rusk Program will not be unchallenging. Sutton’s new time commitments? “There is a great amount of coordinating and organizing of programming that must be done on a day-to-day basis,” he noted. Sutton will assume responsibilities for coordinating a large number of speakers who are invited to campus each year. He hopes to continue a line of notable speakers hosted by Davidson in recent years, such as Jane Goodall, photographers Carol Beckwith and Angela Fisher, and the Director General of the World Wildlife Fund, Claude Martin.faculty to lunch
By ANDREW MACDONALD
Special Contributor

Rifts between students and faculty members seem to center on a very specific theme: Patterson Court. In an attempt to foster better relations between the (at times warring) factions, Dean Shandley recommended that houses make greater efforts to invite professors and staff down to the houses to demonstrate that Davidson’s social atmosphere is not simply one of loud parties and alcohol.

In an effort to cultivate better relationships with the faculty, CoHo eating-house plans to introduce faculty lunches this semester. Every Wednesday starting February 28 at CoHo, faculty members are invited down to CoHo to eat with their students and to share their experiences outside the Spartan accommodations of Chambers. According to CoHo’s social chair Rocky Charton ‘03, this move will allow professors to “eat and fraternize with house members in an effort to encourage Davidson faculty to view Patterson Court as a place to foster closer student/teacher relationships.” CoHo hopes that this will introduce the faculty to the new house and for many, to the court as a whole in a more favorable manner than they may be accustomed.

These lunches mark a concerted effort by PCC to reach out to the faculty and administration. Warner Hall Secretary Maria Tardugno ‘03 hopes that “interaction between faculty and house members will result in more faculty support for the court and will give [the faculty] the chance to see students in other atmospheres, outside of the classroom.” That atmosphere of camaraderie would demonstrate a change from what many have viewed as a growing division between houses and the faculty. As Ian Willoughby ‘03 noted, “simply saying that the court is about more than just parties and alcohol is very different from actually showing that the court has so much more to offer.” Interested faculty members can call CoHo President John Martin ‘02.

Sutton will also coordinate a number of outreach programs in Charlotte, working with such organizations as the Charlotte World Affairs Council and the Charlotte World Trade Organization. Furthermore, he will oversee the distribution of over $30,000 in international grants each year to students for opportunities for individual projects abroad. Between these tasks, various committee meetings with the Dean Rusk Faculty and Students Advisory Councils, facilitation of area outreach with local schools, and the “administrative coordination of all things international” on campus, Sutton should have his plate full. He will be teaching two courses next year, and hopes to maintain his active schedule.

Despite the inconveniences of transition, Sutton tells students to expect no change in the quality of international program services. “I’d like to reassure students that the Dean Rusk Program will continue to build on the strong foundations established in the program through the dedicated work of Brown over the past years. I must salute Ken Brown for his dedication over six years as director of the program,” he said. “We wish him all the best at his new job in Washington.”

Dean Ross has requested that Sutton himself coordinate the search for the next permanent director of the Dean Rusk Program, who is slated to assume duties in July of next year. “In the selection process there will certainly be some discussions about the future direction of the program and the necessary qualities for the new director,” Sutton forecasted. Those internationally minded in the Davidson community should take note, as applications will be accepted beginning next fall.