The Union Board brought several entertainers to the evening, including a caricature artist and clown (right).

Popular cover group Rubber Band returned to Davidson to play for the Jamboree.

Chen, from page 2

"What we call the 'economic miracle,'" said Dr. Rigger after the talk. "When Taiwan began to plan industrialization, they looked to other countries and said, 'What do you need made and how much do you need?' Then, with confidence, they figured out how to make marketable goods, and created an explosion of small-scale manufacturing."

However, this small-scale manufacturing is being threatened, as businesses are moving across the sea to China, where land and labor is cheaper and more readily available.

Chen stressed the need for Taiwan to maintain close ties with the US through threats of growing economic competition. He attributed US aid as an important factor in Taiwan’s development, and recognized the need for continued travel, study, and trade between the two countries.

He also insisted that both the U.S. and Taiwan could gain from established ambassadorships. "The closeness of our relationship is really unprecedented, but there are things that we cannot do because we have no diplomatic ties."

Throughout his speech, Chen expressed confidence in the Taiwan-U.S. relationship, saying that the U.S. would never sacrifice Taiwan in order to strengthen ties with the PRC. "We trust the American people, and we share common interests and values," said Chen, reiterating the importance of civil liberties and political competition in each of the two democratic systems.

Chen’s visit marked the first activity funded by a new $1 million grant to the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies. Over the next four years, the grant will be used to develop an East Asian component to the Asian studies program. The grant will also support two new professorships, one full scholarship, and faculty and student research, study, and travel.

The grant will fund another lecture on Feb. 10, featuring Dru Gladney of the University of Hawaii. He will speak on "Islamic Extremism in China: Can a 9-11 happen there?" Dean Rusk grant applications are due by Feb. 14. Interested students should contact Irene Middleton or Dr. Shelley Rigger for more information about grant possibilities.

January 25, 2002

Photos by Amanda Young

A Union Board Event

Forum, from page 1

Some students, however, were unsatisfied with this answer. "Many students, including myself, came to discuss the reopening of the Outpost, and we were told that it was not a topic of conversation. Reopening the Outpost makes so much sense to so many people, it’s a shame to skirt the issue," said Union Board Vice-President Adam Hill ‘03.

The Outpost, formerly a late-night eatery, was closed for food services when the Alvarez College Union opened in Fall 2001.

After the group addressed previous issues, Vagt led a discussion on current concerns.

The rest of the hour addressed eight specific topics: school-sponsored transportation, campus programming, the use of the campus center, the enhancement of student/faculty relationships, communication with campus police, sports clubs, student conduct on weekends, and the role of alcohol in the social scene. After a brief discussion, the group split into committees to formulate specific action plans.

"The social forum was great because it focused not on just identifying problems, but also on encouraging attendees to be proactive and develop solutions for the issues raised," said Nancy Kohler ’03, PCC Chancellor.

Staff writer Roland F. Foss contributed to this article.

Summer Camp in Atlanta

Westminster Day Camp seeks employees with integrity and character to fill all positions (swimming, canoeing, archery, arts and crafts, etc., and general camp counselors). Campers are 4-13 years old. Camp dates are June 10-July 19, Monday-Friday, 8:30-4:00 and orientation June 4-7. Please call 404-609-6265 for application and salary scale or apply online: www.westminster.net/campstaff

SPRING BREAK 2002
Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas or Florida.
Join Student Travel Services, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator.
Promote Trips at Davidson College
Earn Cash or Free Trips.
On Campus Contact
Mann Travel & Cruises (704) 892-9020
Information/Reservations: 1-800-648-4849
Or www.ststravel.com