By Emily Drew, News Editor

A Lebanese-based terrorist ring was recently caught re-selling cigarettes for profit in the Southeast U.S. The profits made from the
sales went straight to the headquarters of Hezbollah, the terrorist group who now leads the Lebanese government with help from
nearby Syria. Terrorist rings like Hezbollah frequently use American consumers to their financial advantage, even when those consumers are oblivious
to the consequences of their purchases.

To address such issues, Avi J. Jorisch will be speaking on “Hezbollah and U.S. interests in the Middle East.” The
talk will be today, Nov. 13, at 4:30 p.m. in the Smith 900 room. Jorisch is a Soref research fellow
at The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, and he specializes in Arab politics and Islamic society.

“His lecture will be especially important to the Davidson community because it will revive public dialogue on counter-terrorism,” said Leslie
Thompson ’04, who has organized the lecture as the first event for Davidson’s newest politically involved group, PROTECT. Thompson, a
political science major, founded PROTECT after spending five weeks in Israel, Jordan, and Lebanon last summer with the Foundation for
the Defense of Democracies (FDD), a D.C.-based think-tank that conducts research and education on what it believes to be the
most pressing U.S. security issue: terrorism. PROTECT aims at bringing students together to talk about international issues, especially terrorism.

“I don’t think I could begin to understand the real dangers of terrorism, had I not traveled to the Middle
East last summer,” said Thompson, who lived amid the Israeli-Palestinian conflict during her summer fellowship. “I’m really excited about Jorisch’s
visit because all the other speakers have presented a particular view which should be expanded upon in order for the
Davidson community to fully understand the issues,” said Thompson.

Jorisch holds a B.A. in history from Binghamton University and an M.A. in Islamic history from the Hebrew University of
Jerusalem. In 2000-2001, Mr. Jorisch spent fourteen months in Egypt studying Arabic and Islamic culture through the Center for Arabic
Studies Abroad (CASA) program at the American University in Cairo. He also earned a Certificate in Arabic in an intensive
summer program at the Arab world’s preeminent institution of Sunni Islamic learning, al-Azhar University.

Mr. Jorisch has authored a number of policy briefs for The Washington Institute, including “The Language of Terrorism,” “U.S. Military
Operations and the Question of Ramadan,” and “Hezbollah’s Vision of the Israel-Lebanon Border.” He is currently writing a monograph on
Hezbollah and its television station, al-Manar. For more information on terrorism and terrorist-related current events, visit FDD’s website at www.defenddemocracy.org.

Leslie Thompson ’04 sits with a friend below a bunker in the Gaza Strip before encountering hostile fire from unknown
militants. August 2002.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

11/08/02
Watson Science Building: Unknown person(s) damaged door, causing it to crack.
Belk Residence Hall: Unknown person(s) removed watch from victim’s room.

10/28/02
Poll, from page 1

with the department’s faculty—100 percent white and male. Dr. John Heil, Chair of the philosophy department, attributes the lack of
minority philosophy majors to “the makeup of the profession,” saying that, statistically, “the number of minority philosophers is tiny.” And
yet that doesn’t mean only white males take Philosophy at Davidson. “This year, half of the majors are women,” said
Heil. “It comes and goes.”

Of all the departments at Davidson, the anthropology department drew the highest percentage of 2002 minority graduates, with non-Caucasians composing
42.9 percent of the graduating anthropology majors. Despite the high percentage, the actual number of minority graduates in the department
was only three out of seven total graduates. In fact, according to Dr. Bill Ringle, Chair of the Anthropology Department,
out of the five senior majors this year, none are minority students. Anthropology professor Dr. Nancy Fairley was surprised to
learn that her department had graduated the highest concentration of minority students in 2002. On the other hand, Fairley, an
African-American,has always been aware, and proud, of the cultural variety among the department’s faculty. Anthropology currently boasts a higher percentage
of minority professors than all other Davidson departments. “I’m much more conscious of those numbers,” said Fairley. But are these
patterns at all accurate, given Davidson’s low numbers of minority students in the first place? Sellers thinks not. “I would
hesitate to use our survey to generalize about the minority ratios in each major,” he said. “We just don’t have
enough minorities in the sample to reach firm conclusions about that.” English major Krystin Weaver ’04 also disputes the relevance
of the numbers, asking what race really has to do with it. “I think people choose majors based on their
interests,” she said. Whether the numbers from the survey or the data from the class of 2002 have any significance
or not, the fact remains Davidson is focused on building diversity.

The Student Government Association announces their new and improved SGA website. What’s on it? Updated information including who represents you,
SGA’s major goals for the year, committees and their descriptions, and more. Viewers will also have the opportunity to comment
on the job your senators are doing or post grievances on the way things are run at Davidson College. Check
it out at www.davidson.edu/sga.

Duke Family Performance Hall offers opportunities, culture for students
By Roanp F. Foss
Staff Writer

For Lee Ann Bannerman, Assistant Director of Programs for the Alvarez College Union, “the word is out.” She is referring
to, of course, the crown jewel of the Alvarez complex: the Duke Family Performance Hall. Completed just last spring, the
hall has already played host to the world-renowned Royal Shakespeare Company and has other prominent guests on its list for
the upcoming year. So far this year, Bannerman estimates the Duke Hall has been used, on average, no less than
three times per week. The highly adaptable “black box” style of the space allows many different groups to use it
comfortably. The hall can provide a venue for a formal lecture, like that of Cornel West’s next Thursday; a symphony
orchestra, such as the Charlotte Symphony which is performing this Thursday; ballet, such as the American Repertory Ballet which is
coming next semester; live music acts like the return of Eddie from Ohio, also next semester; various performances as part
of the Concert Series and Alumni Series; and student artistic and musical performances. Most emblematic of the hall’s versatility and
ability to bring in high-end performances is the visit this past spring of the Royal Shakespeare Company and the upcoming
visit of the Broadway cast of Rent. As Bannerman relates, the Duke Family Performance Hall is “about as professional a
theatre as there is.”

Incidentally, along with the new hall comes a new opportunity for students and community members alike: the tasks of the
usher. The old Love Auditorium, nice as it was, did not allow for an organized squadron of ticket-takers, ushers, and
front-of-house managers. Now, with a different performance hall design and a mandate to offer professional service equal to the professional
performances for which they host, Bannerman and two student managers schedule and oversee volunteers who accomplish the tasks necessary to
making an audience content. Nidhi Paul ’03, front-of-house manager, says she likes the job because “it’s fun to see the
shows and deal with interesting people who are attending the show.” She also thinks the new hall is “awesome.” For
the valuable services they provide, volunteers are able to view the performances without cost. Always looking for more students interested
in this ushering program, Bannerman wishes interested students give her a call at 2192 or email her at lebannerman@davidson.edu. Davidson
students should be proud of their new performance hall and thank Lee Ann Bannerman, her scheduler Linda Daniels, Technical Director
Anne Taylor, and all the rest of the staff who make sure Duke Family Performance Hall delights and entertains us
throughout the year.
