_THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Duke loss breaks my heart, but was it really them?

I was considering solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in my column this week. Unfortunately, I have a take-home test due on
Thursday on the same subject. So I won’t be able to share with the world my brilliant and simple solution
to one of the world’s most complicated problems (Ok, I have no idea what I am going to write).

Anyways, a mild tragedy occurred for me this past Thursday evening. It shook the very foundations of society. Millions of
dollars were lost. Fortunes were made. It changed the way I look at the world. Duke lost.

That’s right, I am a Duke fan. I have been since I was seven. Growing up in North Carolina, you
only had two choices: Duke or UNC (for you Yankees, that stands for the University of North Carolina). Of course,
there was always the weird NC State and oddball Wake Forest fans here and there, but deep down I knew
they didn’t matter. It was the other team in blue that I hated; the team with the audacity to call
their team color “Carolina Blue.” I lived in North Carolina, and they most definitely were not my team.

Well, as I got older something strange happened. As my hatred for UNC deepened, I realized that most of my
friends were UNC fans. I learned to live with their mistake after a while, and eventually our animosity turned into
playful ribbing. I will always remember my best friends and I watching every Duke vs. UNC game together throughout middle
and high school: the nervous pacing in front of the TV, the post-game gloating, the excuses (depending on the outcome).
I don’t think I will ever love sports as much as I did then.

Well, now those times are gone. I didn’t go to Duke, and instead came to Davidson (a choice I am
very glad I made). In fact, I didn’t even apply to Duke. I have friends there, and my love for
the basketball team hasn’t faded, but I refused to go to a school above the Mason-Dixon line. You may be
thinking, “But Duke is in the Raleigh-Durham area.” To the uninformed, Raleigh-Durham is also known as New Jersey, NC. Don’t
worry; I’m not some Yankee-hating bigot. My mom was actually born in Jersey, so I don’t hate the North. Just
accept that my heart will always be with the South.

I give my congratulations to Indiana. They made it to the Final Four, something no one (not even coach Mike
Davis) even dreamed of. It’s too bad that they never actually got to play Duke. Oh yeah, you didn’t hear?
That wasn’t really Duke on the floor. That was an imposter team. The real Duke team was kidnapped by Bob
Knight and held in a secret location. The real Jason Williams would never have missed a free throw to send
the game into overtime. At least that’s what I’m telling myself.

Yates jury followed the law

Andrea Yates, the Houston mother who now is famous for drowning her five children in the bathtub, has been convicted
of murder and sentenced to life in prison. The jury, consisting of four men and eight women, unanimously rejected her
insanity plea. She will be eligible for parole in 2041, at the age of 76.

Yates had been hospitalized four times; her records show suffering of and treatment for postpartum depression and psychosis, and paranoid
and catatonic schizophrenia. Yet Andrea Yates does not meet the insanity standard. The Houston jury that convicted Yates followed the
law. Under Texas statutes, Yates’ plea of not guilty by reason of insanity means that she should not be held
responsible for the drownings because she was insane at the time. A defendant has to prove insanity, just as the
prosecutor has to prove guilt.

Although Yates has a colorful history of mental instability, the jury believed that she was cognizant of her actions while
committing the crimes. Some even proposed that Yates’ crime was premeditated due to the methodical manner she apparently used in
killing her children. Prosecutors acknowledged Yates’ mental instability, yet argued she was sane enough to distinguish right from wrong, legal
from illegal and righteousness from sin. They argued that it is wrong to excuse the mentally ill from crime. Yates’
defense attorneys explained the duration of her mental illness and postpartum syndrome, and how it had affected her life. Her
psychiatrist defined psychosis as the inability to distinguish reality from imagination. Devoutly religious, she was haunted by satanic spirits who
convinced her that she must kill her children in order to fulfill a prophecy and rid her children of Satan’s
grasp. Acquaintances say she believed she was an insufficient mother because her children could not learn their ABCs by the
age of two. Yates immediately confessed to her crimes and recognized that she had sinned.

For Andrea Yates, mental illness was both a disease and a character flaw. She was a victim of negligence and
psychosis. Rusty Yates, even after four hospitalizations and two suicide attempts, claimed that he was not aware of his wife’s
abnormal behavior. “She didn’t step up and say anything so outrageous that it made us concerned,” he said. “She was
just quiet and stared ahead.” Is her husband, who never changed a diaper or saw the clear signs of his
wife’s insanity, responsible for his family’s tragedy? Or is it the doctors who stopped her anti-psychotic medication two days prior
to the drownings?

The Yates trial was not a clearly defined case distinguishing between black and white; instead there were loopholes and even
endless voids in the search for an answer and resolution. That which can be resolved, however, is clear. Now there
is national awareness of postpartum syndrome and psychosis. People will be more sympathetic to untreatable and unexplained maladies because they
understand that those suffering have been haunted by their own imagined and demonic images for all their lives.

There is a wise and ancient adage that says, “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.” Although
originally intended to describe an ax-toting psychopath in “The Shining,” I feel that this pe-Peculiar proverb is better suited to
the book-toting (still mildly psychopathic) Davidson student. In our case, it would go something like this:

Ali Fitzgerald ‘04

Get out into the light of day.

Well, the answer is quite simply, “yes.” After all, Davidson is the convergence point for the world’s overachiever population, and
Temptation Island sucks anyway (I watch it simply as a sociological experiment). But although we may be a bunch of
accordion-playing geeks, I do think there is something to be said for the work hard/play hard dichotomy. Most of us
need a little release from our all-too-stressed workdays. For many, this comes in the form of fun Patterson Court and
Union events, like those that took place this weekend. For others, it involves “letting loose” with things like this: All
homework and no joy makes one curl up into a little ball and fill out transfer forms to ITT Tech
(You have to admit, Sally Struthers does make it sound kind of appealing).

For the past couple of weeks, Davidson students have been inundated with work—and by weeks I mean years. Still, you’d
think that the promise of Easter and stealing little children’s chocolate bunnies would help alleviate some of the post-Spring Break
lethargy that we have all been battling. But the only change I have experienced has been a recurring hallucination of
Luke Perry wearing bunny ears while studying in the wee hours of the night, as well as a new appreciation
for nocturnal animals.

“So Dr. Ali,” you may ask, “are we condemned to live in a nerd-topian society, where a History Channel special
on the soil upgrade in Tajikistan is chosen over Temptation Island?”

A full-contact game of Trivial Pursuit (seriously, I’ve had some minor injuries in the more heated competitions). I’m not in
any way disparaging the stay-at-home version of the relaxation thing, but I do think that getting outside, going to parties
and the occasional disappearing reggae band concert, is a healthy thing to be doing at our age. Hermitism, although appealing
to some, is better served in the lives of monks and Monica Lewinsky.

Last week’s “Middle School” and “70’s” parties were among the best of the semester, an awesome way to forget about
the English midterm that devoured you like Twinkies after a failed Jenny Craig meeting. My advice to everyone is to
crawl out of that dimly lit carrel, and begin to see the light of day again. Warm weather is here,
birds are chirping and I’m still insufferably single. That can only mean one thing: Spring has come at last!

The only meaning here is us.

It looks like my plan worked after all. At first, I thought that people would be too chicken to write
in and complain that my rants were hurtful and rude. I was wrong and I got several submissions and personal
emails telling me so. Luckily for my self-esteem, I received far more “thanks for writing that” and “nice job” responses
that countered the utter despair I felt inside. And in the spirit of stirring controversy and calling people out, I
thank everyone who participated, but I think that it is time we move on to another subject, after my retort
of course.

There are still some things that have not been set straight. And in all fairness, most of the problems will
never be fixed, because people are different. I am always going to think differently than the folks who have been
critical of me—that is just the way it is. But there is a theme that keeps popping up at me
every time someone asks me to get out of the Davidsonian or keep my arrogant attitude to myself. That is
that people don’t know what Davidson is all about. Davidson is people. To me, I am Davidson. To you, you
are Davidson. Collectively we are a community that consists of dudes, chicks, jocks, frat boys, Unionites and loudmouth editors.

People ask if there is a place for being rude and arrogant and talking about drinking in the college newspaper?
Obviously, I do. There are plenty of people who feel the way I do. If I didn’t say it, then
someone else would, and if they didn’t say it then the people who feel like I do don’t have a
true voice. Sure, their voice isn’t very nice all of the time, but it can serve a purpose. Davidson is
different people. No two people came here for the exact same reason. They all might have similar parts of that
reason, but each person is entitled to their own expectation of this college. Because if we all had the same
expectation and the same reasons for being here, then our horizon starts off with the sun already set. There would
be no reason to meet new people and learn to see them for what they are.

I’ve been looking for the meaning of Davidson since I came here. What am I finding? I am finding that
there is no meaning. It’s just us. We’re all looking for ourselves and sometimes that takes being a little rude
and a little arrogant.

In an article printed last week, placed by me, a writer questioned why I would want to have articles in
the paper that talk about getting wasted, being offensive and playing drinking games. My answer to that is why not.
In the real world, a discussion of the drunken nature belongs on Comedy Central or in Playboy Magazine—but we don’t
have those. The Davidsonian is not the New York Times. We’re not the voice of the people or a nation.
The voice you’ve been hearing belongs to the guy with the picture beside the words and the people who read
those words and say, “Hell yeah!”

Just remember we’re just a bunch of kids and maybe I am the brattiest kid, but don’t go through your
time here thinking that we’re on some mission to be this place of cultural vanity where we are too conservative
to think what we want and let everyone know about it.

P.S. If you are worried about my “crude” articles scaring students away from the college, I think you are overreacting.
We print enough lame, boring articles every week that make all the people with no personality feel right at home.

Tim Cook ‘04
