By David Crow
Staff Columnist

Cars advance more and more every year. From items as common as dual front airbags to sophisticated luxuries like GPS navigation systems, today’s cars seem to have more features and newer technology than ever before. However, as car manufacturers make better cars than ever before, there is one thing that has been getting worse: fuel economy.

A recent report shows that the average fuel economy for all new 2003 cars and trucks is just 20.8 miles per gallon. Fifteen years ago, the average fuel economy for 1987 model year cars and trucks was 22.1 mpg. And this trend is getting worse, not better. Since last year, the percentage of new vehicles getting more than 30 mpg has dropped from six percent just a year ago to four percent this year. This decrease in fuel economy is not just a result of more SUVs being sold either. Fuel economy for cars dropped this year to 23.6 mpg from 23.9 mpg a year ago and 24 mpg two years ago.

With all of the increasing technology available today, why is it manufacturers continue to produce cars with such poor gas mileage? The answer is simple: gas is cheap, and even during these poor economic times, people are willing to pay slightly more for gas if it means they can have a bigger, better, and badder car.

Planning to drive an SUV? Good luck buying gas.

Fortunately, not all automobile manufacturers are following this trend. Honda and Toyota, both Japanese automakers, have sold gas-electric hybrid cars that get over 50 mpg, and Volkswagen, a German company, makes diesel cars that get similar mileage. In fact, those three companies make every car on the list of the top 10 most fuel-efficient cars for 2003.

So while it is clear that the technology exists to make fuel-efficient cars, no U.S. automaker has stepped up to the plate and released a high-mileage vehicle. Instead, companies like General Motors are releasing cars like the new Hummer SUV that get only 11 mpg. GM officials say they hope to sell 40,000 by next year. Shouldn’t the country that consumes more fuel and pollutes more than any other be at the forefront of conservation efforts?

Congress doesn’t think so. Over the past year, Congress rejected multiple attempts to implement stricter fuel economy standards. Within a decade, all of our gas-guzzling SUVs may become obsolete because of a gas shortage. Recent studies estimate that the world’s proven oil reserves could last less than 10 years at current rates of consumption. We must not brush off legislation to increase fuel economy standards. While this problem may seem less important than the war in Iraq or the struggling economy, the fact is that both of those issues relate directly to our consumption of oil. If we do not address our fuel problems today, these other crises will only be exacerbated.

The Mickelson Theory: Consider the evidence, decide for yourself

Sometimes you stumble upon an idea so profound, brilliant, and groundbreaking that it can only come from somewhere up above. When it happens, you feel like Jake and Elwood from The Blues Brothers when they realize they have to put the band back together. That’s how I felt when my friend Lane Estes explained to me the “Mickelson Theory.” For those of you familiar with ESPN.com columnist Bill Simmons, this will sound familiar to the famous “Ewing Theory.”

Lane and I were watching Phil Mickelson tank it again in a major golf tournament a while back. Phil is consistently in contention to win a major, but never does. And everyone, including Phil, can see the final round collapse coming. You almost feel sorry for the guy. But then you see his wife, and you realize Lefty doesn’t have it so bad. The woman is absolutely gorgeous. We’re talking supermodel potential here. It always bothered me that Phil never seemed upset or angry after another failed attempt to win a big one. I mentioned this to Lane as we watched Phil nonchalantly brush off another loss in a post-match interview.

And then Lane proceeded to explain to me his theory: When you’re with a really hot woman, you cannot perform at your peak level, and you don’t really care. But when things are on the skids, you can magically pick it back up.

Candidates for the “Mickelson Theory” must meet two requirements: First, you have to be really talented at your sport and have won at a high level in the past. Second, you have to now be with a really, really beautiful woman. It’s that simple. And the proof is all around us.

Mickelson nemesis Tiger Woods had what many would consider to be a pretty good year. But it was actually a little below expectations for him. Reckon that beautiful Swedish model he’s dating has anything to do with it?

Andre Agassi was going pretty well before he met Brooke Shields. Highly ranked, winning tournaments, and sporting some wild hair. He gets together with this girl, who inexplicably went on a date with Michael Jackson, and his game goes to hell. Then he breaks up with her and becomes the top-ranked player in the world again.

Look back at the great Wilt Chamberlain. Easily the dominant offensive player of his time. 20,000 women. Two NBA championships. That’s 10,000 women per title. Not a great ratio.

Lane and I are both big Braves fans. And on that fateful day I learned of the theory, Lane asked me what year Chipper Jones won the NL MVP. I knew the year, 1999, but forgot that it was the same year he and his lovely wife were going through a messy divorce. Coincidence?

I could go on forever with stories. If you want immediate proof, go watch The Natural and notice what Kim Basinger’s character does to Roy Hobbs. Even fictional athletes aren’t immune to the power of the “Mickelson Theory.”

Once again, I’m not blaming these women, although I’m sure some of them are “high maintenance.” I’m just saying that having a beautiful woman waiting for you at home is quite a distraction. A lot of time and energy must be spent on making them happy. It’s not a bad thing, but it has to affect one’s performance. And when it’s gone, theMagic often returns. I do often wonder if the “Mickelson Theory” applies to other professions. Like, say, a columnist. Do you lose your edge if you’re hooking up with a Playmate? For the sake of science, I should start dating one to find out.

His name is what? Eminem’s back again
By ZACH WILLIAMS
Staff Columnist

The rising popularity of the notorious rapper Eminem will surely reach a peak with the release of his acting debut this Friday in *8 Mile*. How unlikely is it that an artist previously condemned as a homophobe, misogynist, and all-around thug could someday become such an icon in the music industry and pop culture? It was only a few years ago that people were pointing to Eminem as a possible scapegoat for the Columbine tragedy. His 2002 summer tour was purposely named the “Anger Management Tour” as a direct response to the criticisms of politicians and others who disapproved of his vulgar lyrics, which included assaults on gays and minorities. Although Eminem denies harboring these feelings personally, they remain an element of his music which he celebrates, particularly because of the publicity it garners. And publicity sells records. Even Eminem’s gun and drug violations have been unable to stifle an ever-increasing fan base that has turned the white rapper into a sort of pop culture icon. Meanwhile, the politicians have mostly shut up, while music industry leaders have turned their attention towards exploiting one of the newest and yet most permanent fads in the business. At first a villainous symbol for all that was wrong with America, Eminem is now more of an anti-pop rebel adored by fans and entertainers alike. Eminem is becoming a more expansive cultural icon than even Britney Spears or N’ Sync. His fan base, at first consisting of suburban white teens, has now expanded to encompass many who find themselves connecting with the rapper’s rants against humiliation, intolerance, and deprivation. Eminem’s art clearly cuts across cultural boundaries and breaks down barriers between black and white like no pop icon has done before. Although Eminem continues to rap against his popularity—“I’m just a regular guy, I don’t know why all the fuss about me”—the hordes of admirers will only continue to grow. His message, before condemned for its blunt political incorrectness, is now famous for just those characteristics. As *8 Mile* opens in theatres this week, Eminem will be lauded for his movie stardom, as well as his music. And then who will be able to stop him? His music and movie-making abilities are about to merge, and who would have thought five years ago that Eminem would be on top of both worlds?

Division, from page 7

Enough of them will alter or even withhold financial contributions if Davidson were to make the move. But back to the query at base: Why is Davidson Div. I? The most important answer: Because it’s always been that way. Anyone who knows Davidson also knows that that’s pretty much justification par excellence—and for just about anything. Because the football team went to the 1969 Tangerine Bowl! Because the basketball team went to the national quarterfinals in 1968 and ‘69! And because we can do it again! It can happen again. That is why Davidson plays Div. I sports. Is it the “right” thing to do? Who knows? And who’s to say whether it is or it isn’t? Look. The highest classification of college sports—that is, football and men’s basketball at, say, the 40 largest and most athletically inclined universities in America—is nothing but a set of pseudo-minor leagues that use, in essence, slave labor to make cold cash, all under the guise of higher education. But also understand that Davidson, in spite of its Div. I status, isn’t in that classification. Not even close. Div. I might be a racket—at least parts of it—but it’s anything but an equal-opportunity racket.

There’s what I'll call “TV Division I”—think Florida, Texas, North Carolina, not to mention those cheerleaders and that face paint—and then there’s the rest of Div. I. It’s a food chain, and it’s rigid. For there to be winners, of course, there must also be losers. The losers exist, in a very real way, to support the winners’ lavish lifestyle, in hopes that they might one day get some sort of kickback—a trip to the Sweet 16, a game on ESPN, a photo in *USA Today*. Based on a number of relatively static factors—enrollment (and therefore alumni base), fan following, media coverage, marketing and merchandising and, most importantly, the ensuing revenue—all schools have their place. And they know what it is. At Davidson? Win in basketball, win some in football, soccer, maybe women’s basketball and women’s soccer, try not to be embarrassingly poor in everything else—that, although no one down at Baker will ever admit it, is pretty much the athletic department’s goal. And know what? Fine. Great. Tremendous. There’s nothing wrong with that. Just like there’s nothing wrong with Davidson’s No. 195 ranking in *Sports Illustrated’s* recent listing of the nation’s 327 Div. I schools. Even though Connolly calls it “below average.” That’s where we’re supposed to be. Maybe even a little lower than that. Yet here’s the fundamental flaw of so many folks’ pro-Div. III diatribes: Why do Connolly and others seem to think Davidson would turn into an athletic superpower at the Div. III level? Guess what? The traditional winners in Div. III do many and even most of the same things the traditional winners in Div. I do. They spend money on sports—on facilities, coaches, travel, and athletes. And they make academic concessions—in the admissions process (to let them in) and in the curriculum (to get them out). It’s not magic, winning in College Sports, Inc. It’s a decision—and then it’s a financial commitment. Personally? I think Davidson’s commitment is about right, and that its priorities are straight. No matter the level. And no matter what some silly *Sports Illustrated* list might say.

Michael Kruse ’00 has written for *Basketball America, Basketball Times, The Sporting News, ESPN.com,* and *CBS SportsLine*. He is a former editor of *The Davidsonian*.