AAT EALEER ae IN im Kies mpany

The RSC’s production of The Merchant of Venice shines

By Linny BALDWIN
News Editor

Although I’ve never regretted my choice to come to Davidson, I admit that in the past I have envied those
of my friends who attended large, well-known universities and do not constantly have to describe the location of their school.
No longer. My Ivy-League pals can keep their world-renowned postmodern experts on the “dialectic of consensus” — my school has
the Royal Shakespeare Company, performing the best production I’ve ever seen.

For at least an hour after leaving the Duke Family Performance Hall on Friday, the only thing I could say
about my experience was “wow.” The simple, utilitarian set, the elegant costumes, the fabulous actors, and the marvelous language of
Shakespeare all combined to rob me of speech. Every sentence that crossed my mind seemed clumsy next to the soliloquies
and conversations I’d just heard on stage. Even now I feel profoundly awkward trying to “review” the extraordinary production I
saw on Friday night.

For those of you who have been living in a cave and haven’t bothered to at least read a Merchant
of Venice plot synopsis, here it is in brief. Antonio, a wealthy Venice merchant, wishes to aid his beloved friend
Bassanio in his attempts to woo the wealthy heiress Portia. However, all his money is tied up, and so he
is forced to borrow the sum from the Jewish moneylender Shylock, who hates him. Shylock agrees to lend him the
money without interest — but if Antonio fails to pay, his forfeit will be one pound of flesh. Meanwhile, Shylock’s
unhappy daughter Jessica plots her escape from her father’s house and her impending conversion and marriage to the Christian Lorenzo.
In Belmont, Portia’s fate in marriage is determined by three caskets — one of gold, one of silver, one of
lead. Prospective suitors must choose one casket; the one who chooses correctly will become her husband. Portia cares for none
of her suitors except Bassanio — who naturally chooses correctly. The celebration is cut short by the news that Antonio’s
fortunes are lost at sea, and Shylock is demanding his bond. Portia saves Antonio’s life by dressing up as a
man and arguing for him in court. At the end of the play, Shylock is humiliated, Antonio’s fortunes are restored,
and all lovers are reunited at Belmont.

www.davidson.edu

Mr. Bartholomew is Shylock in The Merchant of Venice

This is not, however, a completely merry comedy along the lines of As You Like It or Twelfth Night. This
play is famous for its anti-Semitism, and rightly so. Shylock is subject to all manner of humiliation and degradation for
his heritage. Antonio, one of the designated heroes, has called Shylock “dog,” and the moneylender has several scenes in which
he is spat upon and called names. These scenes (along with a rather racist comment about Portia’s suitor the Prince
of Morocco) made me a bit uncomfortable. I do, however, think the production is right not to shy away from
these scenes — although Shakespeare may not have intended this, they make Shylock less monstrous and his actions more understandable.
Combined with Ian Bartholomew’s extraordinaryperformance, I actually found Shylock to be a sympathetic character — embittered and hateful, to be
sure, but it was easy to understand his resentment. During his Act 3, Scene 1 soliloquy (the scene right before
intermission) I was so absorbed that I lost conscious knowledge of my body as I listened to Bartholomew’s tormented, pain-filled
and embittered speech. In fact, all of the cast members are excellent. (Did you really expect anything else?) Bartholomew is
clearly a standout (his role certainly gives him the most to work with); equally notable are Hermione Guilliford as the
intelligent Portia and Darren Tunstall as the hilarious clown Launcelot. (At Friday’s production, a couple entered late during Launcelot’s first
scene, and the actor greeted them with a cheerful “Welcome to Venice!”) For the first time in my life, I
had no problem understanding Shakespeare’s spoken words. Often in American productions, there are weak links in the cast, actors who
don’t seem to really understand the words they’re saying, but this couldn’t be further from the case here.

The set is fairly minimalist — it’s basically just a giant wooden backdrop that has lots of swinging doors, plus
some furniture and Portia’s three caskets — but it transforms nicely between a city street, a moonlit garden and Portia’s
grand home at Belmont. Set changes take place while actors are still speaking, providing a nice “fadeout” effect that doesn’t
interrupt the momentum of the play. The costumes were also excellent — the choice of circa-1900 fashions gave a slightly
more “modern” feel to the production while still making the time and place seem separate from our own.

I feel a bit churlish putting forth any complaints about a production as excellent as Merchant — however, one scene
in particular bothered me a great deal. Act 3, Scene 5, finds Jessica (Shylock’s converted Christian daughter) and the clown
Launcelot debating over the prospects of her salvation. Earlier in the play, the relationship between Jessica and Launcelot (Shylock’s former
servant) seemed very caring and supportive; both lived unhappily in Shylock’s house. This production interprets Jessica’s conversion to Christianity as
a difficult and painful process; in keeping with this interpretation, Jessica is upset at Launcelot’s jabs at her Jewish heritage.
However, in this scene Launcelot seems downright cruel — a marked and sudden change from his earlier respect for Jessica’s
delicate situation. This was very jarring, and I think the scene might have played better if Launcelot had instead been
lightly teasing her and unaware of how his banter was affecting her.

This tiny little snag in the otherwise flawless production obviously doesn’t detract much from its overall quality. I doubt anyone
in the audience will ever see Shakespeare done better than this, if even as well. The bottom line on The
Merchant of Venice? “Wow.”

www.davidson.edu

The women of Warner Hall welcomed several actors from the Royal Shakespeare Company to their house for dinner last Wednesday.
The Royal Shakespeare Company joined the members in an amazing opportunity to visit with the talented actors. Warner Hall would
like to thank the Royal Shakespeare Company for coming and spending their time with us!

-Maryanne Warner, president, Warner Hall House
