New tastes of Davidson: 3 restaurants open in town

By MARTHA SHOTT
Staff Writer

It’s 5 p.m. The stomach is signaling dinnertime, but neither Commons nor the union sounds too appetizing. What’s a Wildcat
to do? For those seeking an escape from campus but not wanting to venture far past the walls of the
college, the town of Davidson has welcomed three new restaurants to the local area.

O’Donnell’s Main Street Deli, which occupies the previous Village Cupboard restaurant, opened three weeks ago. “We're trying to bring a
New York-style deli with a good atmosphere,” said owner Geoff O’Donnell. The deli boasts sandwiches made with Boar’s Head meat
and will offer daily blue-plate specials.

Another new addition to the dining scene is Joel’s Asian Grill and Sushi located on Depot Street. Server Dana Lindsay
said, “We serve a lot of sushi. The atmosphere is pretty casual.” In addition to sushi, the menu consists of
Japanese steakhouse entrees, sake, seafood, and burgers.

Within the next week or two, Shomar’s Brick House Tavern will be opening up in place of the Depot on
Delburg Street. George Couchell, founder and CEO of Shomar’s of America, said that Brick House will “fill the void between
fast food and full service. We’re ten steps ahead of fast food in terms of variety, quality, and service, yet
we have faster service and better quality than full service restaurants.” The menu consists of appetizers, brick oven pizza, steaks,
and seafood.

In a time of economic instability, these new restaurants have specific plans to attract business. In order to appeal to
a youthful crowd, O’Donnell’s hosts live musical entertainment every Friday night. Also, the prices are student-friendly, running from $3.99 to
$5.99 for entrees. “We cater to everyone, so students are more than welcome,” O’Donnell said. “We’re also heavily involved in
Davidson athletics; we do promotions and sponsorship,” he said.

Since Joel’s opening in February, Lindsay said the business has been doing well. “We have a lot of Davidson students
coming,” she said. The restaurant hosts daily special events such as karaoke and stand-up acts, and for students wanting a
late-night drink, the bar is open on weekends until 2 a.m.

Brick House Tavern will have live entertainment every night after nine o’clock as well, according to Couchell. In terms of
atmosphere, the old Depot site is currently being renovated. “We’ve added a touch of class,” Couchell said. “For sure, the
ambience and atmosphere is incredible. We’ve partnered with the master chef of Guytano’s, who will give us the excitement, flair,
high energy, good food and great service that we’re looking for.”

In terms of success for all three restaurants, the outlook is good. “The response from the community and the college
has been fantastic,” O’Donnell said.

The Dean of Students Office would like to thank all 120 Orientation Team members — OT’s — who helped with
New Student Orientation.

Thanks to all of you who unloaded cars, hauled boxes, directed traffic, filed paper, stuffed packets, made sandwiches, bagged potatoes,
rode the Bull, drove golf carts, greeted parents, delivered refrigerators, made bulletin boards, helped ResNet, sang the Alma Mater, gave
tours, answered phones, led book discussion groups, distributed fliers in town, and helped to welcome our new students in so
many ways!

Special thanks to OT Leaders Mark Williams, Ashlee White, Maryanne Warner, Laura Bondesen, Katie Vogel, Adam Duthe, Henle Sone, Tete
Comets, and Katharine Hubbard.
