. a . os : wal . eee | if j BRGY oie ete a : . 

Staff Editorial

First Night Down weekend is a big deal. Freshmen look forward to their first (legal) appearance on the Court, and upperclassmen anticipate the beginning of the rush and self-selection processes. Last weekend’s celebrations, however, were clouded with an air of administrative disapproval.

Late in the week, fliers and t-shirts appeared to advertise parties. Some of them contained profanity or thinly-veiled sexual innuendo. Students complained. Faculty complained. PCC flew into a flurry of damage control, trying to decide how to address the offending houses. They also began to discuss general policies for Patterson Court souvenirs. At Monday night’s meeting, PCC considered implementing a specific code of ethics that would limit the slogans and images houses use. In the end, they decided that the Code of Responsibility sufficiently outlines how Davidson students should act both on and off the Court. But new rules remain a possibility for the future.

The issue here isn’t which houses posted controversial signs. It isn’t even whether the signs were offensive. Some people found them obscene, others found them funny. The problem is that we forced the administration, and PCC, to think about implementing new, explicit standards for the houses. It won’t be good if next week’s fliers, or next month’s, or next year’s, force a new set of guidelines. Who will determine them? Who will enforce them? It’s complicated enough to plan, register and hold a party on the Court. Do we really want to make it so someone has to approve our fliers, too?

But if the advertising remains questionable, we can expect the administration, or PCC, to take appropriate action. After all, it is their job to make sure the Code of Responsibility is implemented in student life. We can avoid more red-tape rules by taking the first step ourselves. Let’s keep making our fliers funny, even provocative. But it’s important to remember that they’re seen not only by potential party-goers, but also by professors, staff members, parents, visitors and prospectives. What we, as college students, find creative, some others will find distasteful. And what some college students laugh at, others won’t. If we take it upon ourselves to self-regulate, we’ll retain the autonomy that we have over our advertising. We can save the innuendo and double entendre for more appropriate venues. So let’s show that the Code of Responsibility is just that: a code that we’re capable of upholding without a specific rule to govern every action of every situation.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Colin Eagan
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Emily Drew
Caroline Hauser

Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Chris Schmader

Sports Editor
Richard Connolly

Photography Editors
Bron Earley-Thiele
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore
Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager

Moral Relativism, or Moral Responsibility?

In response to “The Strength of American Democracy” (Zeb Kelley, Sept. 11).

Zeb Kelley asserts “the strength of our democracy lies not in the voices of those who support the War on Terrorism, but in that we can hear the voices of those who do not.” And yet, throughout his article, Mr. Kelley’s word choice implicitly incriminates those who express their concerns about the course our nation should take. If our voices, those of the dissenters, are making our democracy so strong, why does he say that the U.S. is experiencing an “onslaught of free thinking”? It seems to me that he would prefer our papers resemble thoseof Iraq, where a non-governmental view is not published, because that way government support would not “fall prey to concerns” of its citizens. After the U.N. summit on Sept. 12, it seems that President Bush is not, “continually vulnerable [...] to the feelings of other nations,” as Mr. Kelley described. On the contrary, he made it clear to the General Assembly that the U.S. is prepared to take unilateral action with or without U.N. support. Perhaps that was directed through one of his diplomatic channels. 

What’s more, why does Mr. Kelley refer to the “feelings” of other countries? These countries are not necessarily emotive just because they disagree with our decision to invade Iraq. We are talking about their moral mandate being ignored. Our vulnerable President was quoted in a Sept. 13 New York Times article as saying, “I can’t imagine an elected member of the United States Senate or House of Representatives saying, ‘I think I’m going to wait for the United Nations to make a decision.’”

I agree with Mr. Kelley’s conclusion, but I believe that the people who voice the dissenting views are just as valuable as the fact that we are forced to hear them. After all, it was an onslaught of free-thinking individuals, not our democratic system, that stopped the slaughter in Vietnam.

Greg Harris ‘05

Attention, students with disabilities

Remember elementary school textbooks? There always were illustrations of children selling lemonade, tutoring each other, painting an old man’s boat, or performing any other act of kindness. Sometimes those students would be in a wheelchair or have braces on their legs. 

For many of us, those illustrations were our first exposure to students and peers with disabilities. Being disabled has fallen into a vacuum in which every disability is regarded similarly because it isn’t the social norm. However, there are varied cases of disabilities and chronic illnesses. Everyone with functional limitations hindering them from walking, lifting, seeing, hearing, or breathing is disabled. They are not victims; they are individuals who have different perspectives in life because they cross larger hurdles.

Elizabeth Barnes, a junior from Charlotte, founded the Chronically Ill and Disabled Student Association, otherwise known as CDSA, because she wanted a support network for students with disabilities and chronic illness. Many of the members are distinct amid our student body, while others seem no different. Elizabeth, as well as the members in CDSA, plan to assist freshmen with disabilities who are adjusting to the Davidson scene, provide a support network for the disabled community at Davidson, interact with disabled prospective students, and raise awareness of disabilities and chronic illness issues on campus.

CDSA is working with RLO to improve housing accommodations, the admissions office to organize wheelchair access tours, and the faculty to amend absence and late-work penalties due to medical conflicts. Ann Fox, faculty sponsor of CDSA, has scheduled Dr. Simi Linton to lecture about the status of disability studies in the United States. There also will be a documentary about disability and the Holocaust. Professor Fox will teach disability-related courses during the spring semester.

CDSA welcomes new members who need support from those who experience chronic illnesses or disabilities and understand the difficulties that arise during college assimilation. We are a crew of students who empathize with others and recognize that our Davidson experience is slightly different from most. Because of that, additional accommodations and a heightened awareness must be established.

Cannon Hodge ‘04

Got something to say? Write a column for the Perspectives section. magarfield@davidson.edu