THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2002

Field hockey places third at NorPac Championships
By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

In the final game of their collegiate careers, the Davidson field hockey seniors dominated the field and led the ‘Cats
to a 3-2 victory over St. Louis. The consolation game against St. Louis occurred Friday, the day after Stanford University
eliminated the ‘Cats from the conference championship match. Stanford defeated Davidson 3-1, and after their win against St. Louis, the
‘Cats concluded the season with an overall record of 8-13.

Senior Jess Barton scored the lone goal for the ‘Cats in the game against Stanford. Prior to the contest, Barton
was named NorPac Conference Defensive Player of the Year. Barton started every game of her collegiate career, during which she
tallied 17 goals and 8 assists. She was also named first team all-conference. Throughout her career, Barton consistently played with
a high level of intensity and skill. Barton’s dedication to and skill level for the game made her a well-deserved
recipient of the award.

Kathleen Fenn, another defensive standout for Davidson, was also honored at the NorPac Conference Awards Ceremony. Fenn, a junior, was
named second team all-conference for the second consecutive year. As the leading scorer for the ‘Cats this season, Fenn started
every game and tallied 7 goals and 1 assist.

Davidson and Stanford took to the soggy turf field last Thursday in Palo Alto, CA. Throughout the first half, both
teams fought hard on defense to prevent any scoring. Stanford held Davidson to no shots, while the Cardinals were able
to take 6 shots on goal. In the second half, Stanford picked up the intensity and scored two goals only
minutes apart. The Wildcats responded with their own goal, as Barton pushed a penalty shot by the Cardinal goalie. Although
the ‘Cats got on the board, they were unable to pull off a win. The Cardinals sealed the victory with
their third goal within minutes of the final whistle. Morgan crossed the ball to Billmyer, who put it away for
a 3-1 concluding score. Stanford dominated the offensive opportunities with 13 shots and 9 penalty corners. The ‘Cats were held
to three shots and only one penalty corner. Not intimidated by Stanford’s impressive statistics, the Wildcats played with heart and
intensity. Molly Blackman and Allison Matlack led Davidson on the defensive end of the field. With their help, Sarah Nolan
held the Cardinals to three goals, and made 4 saves in cage.

The following day, the ‘Cats faced the Billikens of St. Louis, who lost their first round game to Radford, 5-0.
The name of the game between Davidson and St. Louis was finishing. The seniors of the team knew that the
game was their final collegiate opportunity to demonstrate their skills, and they held nothing back in pursuing their goal of
a season-ending victory. The Billikens scored the first goal of the game at the 9:23 mark when Lindsay Lombardo maneuvered
past the Davidson defense for an unassisted goal. Two minutes later, Carin Boone accomplished the same feat, giving St. Louis
a 2-0 advantage. Davidson pulled together to score two goals before the first half concluded. Senior Alex Rogers dribbled the
ball all the way up the field and fired a shot past the St. Louis goalie. Freshman Emily Davis followed
in Rogers’ footsteps as she drove another unassisted goal through the Billikens’ defensive unit. Barton came to the rescue for
the ‘Cats with seven minutes remaining by nailing a penalty stroke into the cage. The ‘Cats were given the stroke
when St. Louis’ goalie covered the ball after a Davidson shot. Davidson maintained control of the game, taking 13 shots
to St. Louis’ three, and seven penalty corners to the Billikens’ five. Nolan made one save in the game, giving
her a season total of 160 saves, and earning her third place in Davidson’s record books for the number.of single-season
saves. The true stars of the game, however, were the five seniors. With every season-ending game, one hopes that the
seniors of the team will end on a good note. For these five players, that is exactly what happened. Alex
Rogers, Jess Barton, Allison Matlack, Agnes Bateman, and Amanda Strickland knew what they needed to do, when they needed to
do it, and they always managed to do it. Good luck to each of you, and congratulations to the team
for ending the season with an exciting victory.

Men’s soccer falls to Furman, now prepares for SoCon tournament
By Geoff Fehling
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team fell on Sunday to nationally ranked Furman, 3-0, in its last regular season game. With the
final game finished, the 'Cats end their season with a record of 9-6-4 overall, 5-2-1 in the conference. The win
for the 7th-ranked Paladins improves their record to 15-2-1 overall and a perfect 8-0 in the Southern Conference.

Furman wasted no time in getting on the scoreboard with two quick goals midway through the first half. It looked
as if the Wildcat defense would keep the deficit at two going into halftime, but the Paladins managed to get
another goal a few minutes before the half ended. The first half was not without a few key defensive plays
by Davidson. Johnson had two crucial penalty kick saves that kept the Wildcats in the game. He stopped Anthony Esquivel’s
kick at 10:37, as well as Moor’s penalty kick at 20:53.

The Paladins were unable to score in the second half as Davidson stepped up and contained the Furman offense. The
defensive battle was led by sophomore goalie Bart Creasman, who tallied three saves after he entered the game at the
start of the second half. Davidson’s offense had trouble producing shots and scoring opportunities as they took only three shots
the entire game, compared to Furman’s 14.

“It was a physical game played on a very soft field,” explained Wildcat head coach Matt Spear. “The Davidson players
that stepped their games up in these conditions were Will Carroll, Justin Porter, John Latting, and David Sartorio. Bart Creasman
was also good in the goal for the second half.

“In the second half, we showed greater spirit,” continued Spear, “and we will need to carry that forward into the
conference tournament this weekend.”

Undefeated Furman will take the first seed, followed by Appalachian State and Davidson in the second and third seeds, respectively.
“We are disappointed to give up No. 2 in the conference’s regular season standings,” said Spear. “Even with some unfortunate
results earlier in the season, we pride ourselves in pushing for the conference regular season No. 1 spot.”

Davidson’s 3rd rank in the SoCon has them scheduled to face off against 6th seeded Georgia Southern for their tournament
opener on Nov. 15th at 7 p.m. Georgia Southern is 2-14-2 on the season and 1-5-2 in the conference. Davidson
last faced the Eagles on October 19th, resulting in a 1-1 tie. This year’s tournament will be held at Patriots
Point in Mount Pleasant, SC.

In their last matches of the regular season, men’s soccer fell to Wake Forest last Tuesday and Furman on Sunday.

The Davidsonian Player of the Week
Jessica Barton ‘03
Field Hockey
Hometown: Hummelstown, Pennsylvania
Major: Economics

Barton was named Defensive Player of the Year in the NorPac’s East division and also garnered first-team all-conference honors. Starting
every game of her collegiate career, Barton has scored 15 goals and added eight assists in four years at Davidson.
