12 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2002

Men’s soccer hunts for another upset at home against Clemson

By GEOFF FEHLING
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team (8-4-3) has distinguished itself this season with huge wins against nationally ranked opponents. A few times,
the Wildcats have even been placed among the top 25 teams in the country, elevating twice to within the top
20. Just as they have done twice before this season, winning games against North Carolina and South Carolina, both No.
2 at the time, the team says it is ready for tonight’s match against the No. 4 Clemson Tigers.

The Tigers come into the game with an impressive 9-1-2 record, but they just received their first loss Saturday night
from seventh-ranked Maryland. Davidson head coach Matt Spear realizes the potential for a big win, but says he is not
looking at this game any differently than the others.

“The focus all season has been to improve, game by game, as we look to peak at the Southern Conference,”
Spear said. “Clemson provides another tremendous opportunity to see how our team and our program as a whole matches up
against a nationally ranked ACC power.”

Thus far, the Wildcats have been dominating the Southern Conference, and they now sit in second behind nationally ranked Furman.
Each opportunity against a well-respected team such as Clemson gives the Wildcats a chance to show that they can compete
with the best. Although this night game will be the first time these teams have met in the 2002 season,
it is not the first time the Wildcats have faced the Tigers.

“Two years ago, we played Clemson very tough here at Richardson Stadium, and we look forward to another great match,”
Spear said.

The 2002 season has been marked by stellar defensive performances with a strong backfield that includes junior David Peoples and
senior goaltender Soren Johnson. The offense, led by Nick Hansell, Joel Sadler and Hussein Nasreddin, has emerged of late, exploding
for eight goals against UNCG. These upperclassmen have been complemented by freshmen such as John Latting, Nahum Navas, and David
Sartorio.

The Tigers also possess great talent and will be ready to play after losing to Maryland last weekend. “We know
we will have our hands full with the talent Clemson possesses, most notably Dimelon Westfield’s goal scoring (he has 17
on the season) and Fabio Tambosi’s playmaking abilities,” Spear noted. “We will also have to keep a careful eye on
Steven Rhyne and Paul Souders.”

Clemson is coached by Trevor Adair, who is now in his seventh year at the helm. Adair holds an overall
coaching record of 135-63-15, with 111 of those wins at Clemson.

Hussein Nasreddin (left) handles the ball last week against UNCG. Adair’s reputation may be great, but Davidson had faced similar
circumstances against the Tar Heels and Gamecocks. “With our big wins over North Carolina and South Carolina, Clemson is far
too well-coached by Trevor Adair for us to sneak up on them,” Spear said. He predicts that tonight’s match will
be a good one, “They will come to play.”

“With the theme that every match is equally important, we will still look to bring a special level of energy
and sharpness to this challenge,” he said. The opening touch is scheduled for 7 p.m. Despite the chilly weather, the
team is hoping for another noisy crowd.

The Tigers and Wildcats battled to a 6-6 tie in their first meeting in 1925, a season that included Davidson
wins over N.C. State and Duke (then known as Trinity). College football has changed just a bit since then, but
the Wildcats have won 16 of the 24 meetings with Hampden-Sydney, including six straight since 1996.

THE OPPONENT: The Tigers are enjoying their best season in nine years, with a 6-1 record (4-1 in the Old
Dominion Conference) and blowout wins over rivals.Sewanee, Guilford, and Washington & Lee. Sophomore CW Clemmons (6-2, 215 pounds) earned his
third straight 100-yard rushing performance in last week’s 30-20 win over Catholic. In his last three games, Clemmons has rushed
for 404 yards and five touchdowns.

DAVIDSON (5-3, 1-1) vs. HAMPDEN-SYDNEY (6-1, 4-1)
1 p.m. Hundley Stadium, Hampden-Sydney, Va.
Daniel Hanks: Needs two points to become all-time scoring leader (202)
Paul Nichols: First in all-time passing yards (5,236) and touchdown passes (42)
Mike Chase: Ninth in all-time (1,183) and 10th in TD receptions

Seniors reach milestones in victory over Wesley

Three different head coaches, a new conference, a two-month stretch without a home game last season, an undefeated record in
2000. The Davidson football team has been in a constant state of flux over the past four years, but one
thing has remained the same: Not one losing record. After Saturday’s 31-0 Family Weekend victory over Wesley, the 17 seniors
on the Wildcats’ roster can say they never played for a losing team during their college careers. And a win
in either of the final two games will guarantee a fifth straight winning record. The success is almost unprecedented in
Davidson’s 106-year football history, happening only in 1954-58 and 1914-18.

You can’t talk about it without mentioning quarterback Paul Nichols, who will finish his career as the school’s all-time leading
passer in yardage and touchdowns. And there’s Daniel Hanks, a reliable kicker since his freshman year who needs two more
points to become the school’s all-time leading scorer with 202 points. There’s also Mike Chase, a 6-6 receiver with a
knack for finding the end zone, who is 10th in all-time receiving yardage. All the other seniors have earned their
place in Davidson football history as well. The Wildcats are officially eliminated from the Pioneer League championship picture, but Chase
says closing out the year with four straight wins will be plenty satisfying.

“It would’ve been great to play for a championship,” said receiver Mike Chase. “But we’re still striving to be 7-3,
which is a great record.” -Matt Garfield

Senior kicker Daniel Hanks needs two more points to become the school’s all-time leading scorer with 203 points, surpassing fullback
Eric Ferguson ’00. Hanks, the starting kicker in each of his four seasons, is 9-of-14 on the year with a
long of 48 yards, and has hit all 27 extra-point attempts.

What To Expect:
The Tigers started hot and are still rolling with three games left. But this weekend might be their toughest test,
because Davidson traditionally plays them tough. Expect a high-scoring but close game that may come down to whoever wins the
tailback battle, CW Clemmons or the Wildcats’ duo of Christian and John Leverett. -Matt Garfield

The Davidsonian..... THE WEEK AHEAD

Men's Soccer vs. Clemson 7:00 p.m.
Women’s Soccer at UNC Greensboro 7:00 p.m.
Friday---------------
Volleyball vs. College of Charleston 7:00 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country Southern Conference Championships at Dixie, SC
Football at Hampden-Sydney 1:00 p.m.
Men’s Soccer vs. The Citadel 1:00 p.m.
Field Hockey @ VCU 2:00 p.m.
Volleyball vs. The Citadel 2:00 p.m.
Women’s Soccer at UNC Wilmington 2:00 p.m.

Nolan picked up her fifth shutout as she led the Wildcats to a 2-0 win over Georgetown on Sunday. Recording
seven saves on the afternoon, Nolan improved her career save total to 130, good enough for fifth all-time at Davidson.

Monday---------------
Men’s Soccer vs. Wake Forest 7:00 p.m.
Volleyball vs. UNC Greensboro 7:00 p.m.
