“The Davidsonian
WEDNESDAY, May 1, 2002

100 years and still going strong
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

With a handful of teams in the hunt for the final few playoff spots, the Southern Conference should provide some very exciting baseball over the last three weeks of the regular season. Davidson is most certainly in the mix as they currently stand in eighth place, and, with a three-game sweep of Virginia Military Institute this past weekend, are in good position to earn their first playoff berth of the new millennium.

With nearly 50 former Wildcat ballplayers in attendance, the Davidson Nine took two from the visiting Keydets, who remain winless in conference play, during a SoCon doubleheader on Saturday afternoon. The Diamond ’Cats wasted little time putting runs on the board, scoring three in the first frame to take a lead that they never relinquished. Senior Jack Purcell walked, advanced to second on junior D.J. Dailey’s single, and then scored when senior Tim Frend lined a single to left. After a run-scoring grounder by senior co-captain James Marino, freshman Justin Hartanov brought Frend home with a sacrifice fly to left.

VMI countered in the second, pulling to within two, but an RBI double from junior Chris Emond scored Marino to regain the three-run advantage. In the fourth, Purcell singled, stole second and third, then came home on a grounder by Dailey to make it a 5-1 ballgame. VMI answered in the sixth with an unearned run, only to have Davidson put the game away in the seventh, as the 10-run mercy rule went into effect when seven Wildcats crossed the plate. Purcell drove in two runs with a bases-loaded single, freshman Eli Benefield added another RBI and Frend ended the game with a grand slam, his eighth homer of the season. Senior Mark Wells (5-5) picked up his second straight complete-game victory, hurling all seven innings while yielding just two runs, one earned, on eight hits and no walks with three strikeouts as Davidson took the 12-2 victory.

Game two provided another solid pitching performance as junior right-hander Derrik Eli Benefield ’05 slides into second during Saturday’s doubleheader, hurling a complete game, yielding just two runs off four hits, as the Wildcats downed top-ranked Miami on March 15, 1990 in Florida. In 1993 Davidson defeated no. 1 Georgia Tech, which then featured current Boston Red Sox stars Nomar Garciaparra and Jason Varitek. Currently, Davidson owns an all-time record of 1007-1550-14, as the Wildcats notched their 1000th win on March 23 in a 16-6 rout of UNC-Greensboro.

Seven decades of alumni come back for baseball and barbeque
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

As far as centennial celebrations go, Davidson’s 100th anniversary of baseball was a big hit. No, scratch that. It was a grand slam. Tim Frend’s game-ending round-tripper in the front end of Saturday’s twinbill against VMI cleared the bases and made way for roughly 40 alumni who returned to Wildcat Park to be honored for their contributions to Davidson’s second oldest sport.

Baseball became an official intercollegiate sport at Davidson in the spring of 1902 when the team put together an impressive 7-1 record including victories over Duke and South Carolina. Over the first 10 seasons, Davidson baseball established itself as a dominant force, posting an overall record of 84-55-2 while suffering just two losing seasons. The crowning achievement of the past 100 years, however, came in 1933, when Davidson went 5-3 against Duke, North Carolina, NC State and Wake Forest, and was crowned state co-champions with the Tar Heels. Twice in their existence, the Diamond ’Cats knocked off the number one team in the country. George Wilcox ’90, who holds the school mark for wins in a season with 12, bases-loaded single, freshman Eli Benefield added another RBI and Frend ended the game with a grand slam, his eighth homer of the season. Senior Mark Wells (5-5) picked up his second straight complete-game victory, hurling all seven innings while yielding just two runs, one earned, on eight hits and no walks with three strikeouts as Davidson took the 12-2 victory.

Game two provided another solid pitching performance as junior right-hander Derrik hurled a complete game, yielding just two runs off four hits, as the Wildcats downed top-ranked Miami on March 15, 1990 in Florida. In 1993 Davidson defeated no. 1 Georgia Tech, which then featured current Boston Red Sox stars Nomar Garciaparra and Jason Varitek. Currently, Davidson owns an all-time record of 1007-1550-14, as the Wildcats notched their 1000th win on March 23 in a 16-6 rout of UNC-Greensboro.

For the celebration, baseball alums gathered near the Davidson dugout and were called out individually as a brief summary of their career was read over the loudspeaker. According to Sports Information Director Rick Bender ’93, a highly celebrated player himself, special attention should be given to several former players. Jack Burris ’50, or “Coach Jack” as many baseball alumni call him, was a terrific outfielder for the Wildcats in 1947-48. After playing in the Detroit Tiger organization, Burris came back as an assistant-coach for many years, and took the reins as head coach in 1973.”One of the greatest players in Davidson baseball history, George Weicker ’75, is the program’s lone first-team All-America performer. During his senior campaign, he led the nation with a .810 slugging percentage, barely missing out on the national batting title with a .448 average. He doubled Davidson’s single-season home run record that year with 10, and won the Southern Conference Triple Crown.

Perhaps the greatest pitcher in Davidson history, Wilcox is the all-time leader in victories, innings, and strikeouts. He went 12-2 his senior year with 125 strikeouts, including 12 in the Miami game, and in 2001 he was inducted into the Davidson Athletic Hall of Fame.

One of the oldest living baseball alumni, K. D. Weeks ’35, has had a son and a granddaughter attend Davidson. A member of the 1934 team, Weeks is one of the few baseball alumni who attended Davidson when the baseball team won the state championship in 1935.

While the celebration was short and sweet, everyone involved considered the weekend a huge success. The festivities began Friday morning with a golf outing at Skybrook Golf Club in Huntersville. After golf, an alumni game took place at Wildcat Park followed by a barbeque dinner. The celebration culminated between games of Saturday’s twin bill, which Davidson eventually swept, providing the perfect ending to a spectacular weekend.

Inspirational Quote of the Week
“However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results.” - Winston Churchill

BASEBALL
Photo by Matt Whited

Wildcats make run for SoCon while Marino and Emond both contributed two RBI en route to the 10-1 win. Davidson completed the weekend sweep on Sunday as the Wildcats hung on for the 7-6 decision when sophomore Brian Akin induced a game-ending 4-6-3 double play with the bases loaded in the top of the ninth. Akin picked up his first career save by hurling the final 3.2 innings, allowing just two hits and one walk while striking out three. Freshman Andy Carter (3-1) started the game, going 5.1 innings while surrendering 11 hits and six runs with a pair of strikeouts to earn the win.

Continuing the streak, Davidson scored once again in the bottom of the first as Dailey hit a one-out single to extend his hitting streak to a career-best 15 games, and then moved up to second when Frend reached on an error. After Marino walked to load the bases, Navarro doubled to right, knocking in two runs. Emond drove in Marino with a grounder to second for the third run of the inning, but VMI returned the favor in the top of the second and grabbed a 4-3 lead. Senior Steven Aldrich’s first career triple set up a sacrifice fly by Purcell to tie the game in the third, and the Wildcats took the lead for good with two more runs that inning. Both Navarro and Purcell had two hits, while Navarro and Emond each drove in two runs. Marino scored three times, yet did not have an official at-bat as he walked once and was hit by a pitch three times, tying a Davidson record.

The Wildcats returned to action today at third-ranked Wake Forest, and will host East Tennessee State this weekend in a crucial three-game Southern Conference series.

Photo by Matt Whited
K. D. Weeks ’35 (right) is introduced between games. Weeks, father and grandfather of Davidson alums, was a Wildcat when the baseball team won a state championship.

MEN’S TRACK & FIELD
May 4  East Tennessee State (2)  12:00
May 5  East Tennessee State  1:00
May 16  @ College of Charleston  6:00
May 17  @ College of Charleston (2)  1:00
May 22-26  SoConference Tournament
May 4  @ Georgia Invitational
May 17-19  @ IC4A Championships, Princeton, NJ
May 30-Jun 1  NCAA Outdoor Championships, Baton Rouge, LA