INH: Bush energy plan doesn’t solve long-term problems

As the recent instability in the Middle East and the attacks on America have demonstrated, our dependence on oil from volatile foreign sources jeopardizes our national security. President Bush is absolutely correct; we do need to gain energy independence. We owe it to ourselves and to future generations. Unfortunately, the energy plan offered by Mr. Bush does nothing to help us achieve long-term energy independence. It centers almost entirely on measures to increase supply and consumption of oil and other resources, not the promotion of more efficient use of resources. More consumption and drilling are not long-term solutions to our energy problems. Nor is drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Even if Bush’s widely optimistic projections are correct, then ANWR will provide less than 1% of the oil needed by the United States. That won’t exactly provide us with the kind of energy self-sufficiency that we need. The fact is the U.S. lacks the oil reserves to ever drill itself into energy self-sufficiency.

While Bush’s energy plan may bring us cheaper energy in the short-term, it does little to prepare us for the inevitable switch to renewable forms of energy, hurts the environment, and does very little to reduce our reliance on Middle Eastern OPEC nations. To make matters worse, the plan actually reduces the amount of funding we are giving to research on renewable energy. Last week the Bush administration decided to scrap the Partnership for New Generation Vehicles, which was designed to help automakers develop vehicles that got better fuel economy. Instead, they decided to put that money into hydrogen research. They seem to see a dichotomy between conservation and research. In reality, there is none. A good, responsible, and effective long-term energy plan must work to both conserve existing resources in the short-term and work to develop renewable energy for the long-term.

Despite what Mr. Bush may think, basic logic dictates that if you use less of something, you need less of that something. Our nation’s energy policy and increasing consumption over the last 20 years is shameful. While other nations have taken proactive steps to use the world’s limited resources more responsibly, the United States has continued to use more and more energy. The average car sold in the U.S. today gets fewer miles per gallon than in 1980. Our total energy consumption continues to rise annually. The program cut by Bush, called a failure, had great promise and was very near its goal. Prototype cars like those shown at auto shows could seat five, get over 70 miles per gallon, and cost nearly the same as any other car. That’s three times the gas mileage of what the average new automobile gets today. The benefit of having cars like these on the market would be tremendous. Unfortunately, it would also harm the bottom line of the oil industry, and oilmen tend to stick together, so Bush axed the project.

Technology is not the problem. We have the technology to save fuel. The problem is demand. As long as gasoline is a buck a gallon, only the most socially conscious consumers will make a switch. Government promotion of conservation has been very successful in the past and can be in the future. In fact, between 1979 and 1983, the United States actually reduced its energy usage. Unfortunately, as the memory of the long gas lines of the 1970s became distant, we lost our commitment to conservation. The government needs to take the long view and help promote conservation once again.

First, CAFE requirements must be raised substantially and enforced. The loophole exempting SUVs from these standards must be closed. CAFE has proven effective in the past, doubling average fuel economy in its first ten years. Unfortunately, since 1985, standards and fuel economy have basically been stagnant. Raising CAFE standards would force automakers to implement and market some of the technology they already have developed. Bush’s energy plan should include tax credits and incentives that reward consumers for making responsible decisions when purchasing automobiles and building homes. Using better insulation and techniques like passive solar heating in our homes can greatly reduce our energy needs. Tax credits, subsidies, and incentives should also be offered to make it economical for energy producers in the private sector to produce energy through more efficient, cleaner, or renewable ways.

America is at a crossroads. If Congress and the President provide firm and effective leadership on the issue of energy, then we can not only reduce our current energy usage but develop renewable energy forms for the future. If they don’t, they will only be leaving a problem for future generations to confront. Hopefully, Mr. Bush will be able to see beyond his ties to the oil industry and do what’s right for the future. Eventually, and in our lifetimes, we will be forced to take these steps. Sooner isbetter than later. - Cannon Hodge ‘04

Parking tickets aside - unity over laundry

You know I have to say that there are only a few days out of the year that students should actually feel safe about parking wherever they so choose. I for one tried to take advantage of one of these days, but I was taken advantage of instead. So, for the amusement of all and for the sake of losing those readers captivated only by cheap thrills and boring subplots, it’s story time:

It was a dark, cold night. In fact, it was three days ago and I was just returning to Sentelle after a long, tough hockey practice and had a huge load of groceries consisting of eighteen bottles of ketchup, or Catsup for the old-fashioned folk. I pulled into the laundry bay parking lot, you know the one that looks like a dream to good people of Cannon, Sentelle, and Duke. Well, anywho, I thought to myself, “Hey Tim, tomorrow is the great holiday of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and since we as students are out of school, I will make the assumption that the great physical plant and laundry workers will also receive the day off as well.” So I parked my car and hauled my groceries, hockey equipment, bible, and statue of Martin Luther King up to my third-floor room.

“Whew! I sure am glad that tomorrow is MLK day so I didn’t have to park in Baker with all of this stuff,” said Tim to his little gnome friend. I then went about my merry way and did my homework and went to bed before 11 pm like momma always said. The next morning, after waking up bright and early around noon, I was horrified to find my first-ever parking ticket lying across my windshield, now stripped of its innocence. As you might have guessed, I immediately considered the social repercussions of the events surrounding my violation. Why are we out of school if the staff who we owe so much to are still putting in a full day? I guess maybe I am really bitter about getting a ticket for a simple mistake, but I truly believe that we as students could have gotten by with one more day without laundry service as long as our brethren could celebrate along with us the achievements of the great Dr. King.

“For writers are frequently carried away by artificial emotions of their own making which have no relation to their subject matter. Like drunkards, they are beside themselves, but their audience is not, and their passion naturally appears unseemly to those who are not moved at all.” - Longinus

A long time ago

When tragedy strikes, cherish those you love

I’ve always wanted to live somewhere else. There was always some place on the map that seemed much more exciting than the dismal suburban metropolis of Fort Worth, Texas. I usually dreaded my return home because it was a reminder of what once was familiar and now remains behind the glass plates of a picture frame. This year, however, I was welcomed with a surprise. A family friend presented my family with a story that I now want to share with the Davidson family.

The friend reminded us of a national hero, Todd Beamer, a passenger on United Airlines Flight 93 who in the final hour of his life united with strangers in order to defend our country. The words “Let’s roll” are the last we heard from him. Todd Beamer had no conception of the importance that those words would hold or how much they would be cherished. They became our country’s motto during the War on Terrorism.

Back to my home at Christmas time. The stockings had returned. All six hung on the stone mantle beneath my brother’s collection of nutcrackers. For the first time since my sister’s death several years ago, my family had begun to feel a new sense of homeliness. Suddenly I felt the presence of the two missing family members whose names were monogrammed on the stockings. This year my family was able to celebrate without the harrowing reminders of the family that once was. I was able to recognize the unity of my small family and appreciate the strength of my mother, the determination of my eldest brother, Trey, and the sensitivity of my other brother, Daniel.

Although we are often presented with tragedies, we must find ways to move on with our lives. Had Todd Beamer and his partners not confronted the Flight 93 hijackers, another plane would have flown into another building, endangering thousands. If my family continued to mourn the deaths of my sister and father, then our Christmas would not have had the same significance and Fort Worth would not have become home again. For the year 2002, I recommend that you relish the relationships with those you cherish and renew those you have lost. This year is what we make of it, so — let’s roll.