The Davidsonian

Environmental activities take place this weekend

DO, Davidson Ecological Preserve will host service, education activities

By Kevin James
Special Contributor

This weekend kicks off what promises to be an interactive semester of environmental learning and service. All students, staff, and
faculty are invited this Friday to an interactive “Reptile Day” hosted by Dr. Mike Dorcas’ herpetology lab. This event is
a part of Davidson Outdoors “Into the Woods Week” and will be held in the atrium of the Union from
3 to 5 PM. Students will be able to touch, hold, pet, and come eye to eye with some of
Davidson’s local amphibians and reptiles. These include several species of salamander, frogs, snakes, and turtles. For the brave student, Dr.
Dorcas will be giving his famous venomous snake talk in which he displays North Carolina’s venomous snakes directly in front
of students while explaining their importance in ecosystems.

On Saturday, the first of a series of nature walks on the Davidson College Ecological Preserve will kick off at
the Union. These walks are aimed at introducing the Davidson community to many of the plants and animals in our
own backyard. Saturday’s walk will feature Dr. Mark Stanback leading a group to explore winter birds of Davidson. Students can
look forward to seeing many species including raptors, woodpeckers, and songbirds. Interested students should dress appropriately and meet in front
of the Union at 11 AM. A limited supply of binoculars will be available, but those with them should bring
their own. Future walks will feature butterflies and other insects, reptiles and amphibians, and trees and wildflowers.

For those students interested in service, Sunday will offer an opportunity for environmental service through a project on the Davidson
College Ecological Preserve. The DCEP is 200 acres of land around the College’s cross-country trails. Sunday we will be putting
in the final boundary marker signs that help ensure that the ecosystems and research studies on the preserve will remain
undisturbed. Through this event, those involved with the DCEP hope to spread the word that the college has set aside
such a valuable piece of land for study and preservation. The group going to DCEP will meet this Sunday afternoon
at 1 PM in front of Watson Life Science Building. Learn more about these and other upcoming activities on the
DCEP web page (linked off the research section of the biology department homepage at www.bio.davidson.edu). Questions about any of these
events should be directed to J.D. Willson (jdwillson@davidson.edu) or Kevin James (kejames@davidson.edu).

Mock Trial team earns bid to National Tournament

Founded in 1999, student-run program beats out competition to go to St. Paul

By Dan Peischl
Special Contributor

The Davidson College Mock Trial Association traveled to the Southeastern Regional Mock Trial Tournament in Greenville, South Carolina the weekend
of February 1st. Guests at Furman University, the representatives of Davidson demonstrated a mastery of this year’s case: The State
of Midlands v. Ashley T. Thornhill. Despite fierce competition from respected mock trial opponents Furman and Rhodes College, one of
Davidson’s two teams tied for fourth in the tournament, qualifying them for the National Intercollegiate Mock Trial Tournament in St.
Paul, Minnesota this March.

“It’s really encouraging to see the program come this far,” said founder Jessica Bogo ‘02 following the awards ceremony held
Saturday evening at Furman. Student involvement in the program has more than doubled since its founding in 1999. This will
be Davidson Mock Trial’s first trip to the national tournament.

Davidson is one of over four hundred member undergraduate institutions of the American Mock Trial Association. Given the case materials
by the national organization, students volunteer time to develop case theories, write arguments, and draft questions with the help of
legal advisor George Guise. “George’s help was integral to this year’s success,” said Bogo. Drawing on both legal and theatrical
skills, each member of a six-member team prepares their individual role as either attorney or two different witnesses. During a
competition, the team competes in four rounds in a two-day period. Students compete before a panel of professional judges and
lawyers from the surrounding area. They are assessed on both case theory and total presentation.

Victory came to the Davidson team following a tough first day of competition. Formidable opponents and exacting judges contributed to
the initial challenge, and a general expression of disappointment on the part of many participants. However, a solid performance on
the final day solidified the team’s mentality and ranking. “At breakfast on the second day we decided that we had
to take a breath and go for it. We knew the importance of a perfect performance in the"Last rounds," stated
mock lawyer Seth Davis ’02. "Our success at Furman was the result of a truly joint effort by both of
our teams. One is going on to St. Paul, but could not have achieved its success without the other to
practice with and learn from," explained advisor Guise. While the second team did not qualify for nationals, members expressed both
pride and excitement concerning the program’s victory. College President Bobby Vagt enthusiastically praised the team’s efforts and success. "This was
a totally student-initiated and student-driven effort," he said, pointing out that most of the teams against which Davidson was competing
had coaches and longer-running Mock Trial programs. Vagt also related positive comments from Judge Tom Ross, who came to Davidson
to judge the team in its campus exhibition. According to Vagt, Ross said he had "presided over capital trials where
the counsel was not as knowledgeable" as Davidson’s Mock Trial competitors. The Minnesota-bound team looks forward to a week away
from the case, having worked incessantly as a group since the season began in early October. Over the course of
the next month, members of the association will be collaborating to fine-tune the casework of the advancing team. A third
Davidson team will be attending another regional tournament in two weeks to be held in College Park, Maryland. Peter Lipsett
‘03, captain of the third team, said, "We hope to meet the other team in Minnesota this March."

Young Democrats host Congressman
By ALEX MASSENGALE
Special Contributor

"Last Saturday, Davidson’s congressional representative, Democratic Congressman Mel Watt, was on campus to speak and address student concerns. The event
drew 65 students, professors, and constituents and was sponsored by the Davidson College Young Democrats. Before he spoke, the Congressman
was presented with a certificate of appreciation for his efforts to force a vote on campaign finance reform from North
Carolina Common Cause and the newly formed Davidson College Alliance for Clean Elections. The Congressman, a native of Mecklenburg County,
spoke for about fifteen minutes and then answered questions for an hour. During his brief remarks, Mr. Watt revealed a
long connection to Davidson, North Carolina dating back to his youth where he spent summers as a shoeshine boy at
competing barbershops on Main Street that were owned by two of his uncles. Congressman Watt then answered a variety of
questions from the audience in detail. Based on the number of questions it generated, the biggest concern of constituents seemed
to be the upcoming house debate on campaign finance reform. Even though he voted for the discharge petition to force
a vote on this issue, Mr. Watt revealed that he had concerns on the proposed Shays-Meehan bill and was not
sure whether he would vote for it or not. He did say that campaign finance reform is too important an
issue not to debate and it was an "easy decision" to sign the discharge petition, which forces a vote on
the house floor. He also entertained questions about how President Bush’s proposed increases in the military budget and large tax
cuts will affect programs such as Headstart, and if the Democrats in the House plan to confront the president on
the issue. The Congressman said that the issue of fiscal priorities is important and will come to the forefront in
a few months' time, when the President has to come to the Congress to have the debt ceiling raised. While
most of the issues raised were national, local issues such as desegregation in the Charlotte Mecklenburg County School System were
also raised. After the event, Congressman Watt spent a half hour talking with a small group of students and addressing
their concerns about energy policy, ways to improve civic participation in this country, and Enron individually. The students who came
enjoyed the ability to debate issues and bring concerns directly to a Congressman. "It was great to see a US
Congressman come to listen to the concerns of our generation, especially one who is as committed to education, and speaking
for those without a voice, as Mel Watt," said Tom Anstrom, ‘04. Beth Daniel ’04 agreed with his sentiments, saying,
"Regardless of the party we support and even though many of us aren’t registered to vote here, I think it
was a great opportunity for us to go see our Representative. How often do any of us get a chance
to speak with a member of Congress?" Mr. Watt’s visit is the first of many events this semester planned by
the Davidson College Young Democrats. Future events include visits by U.S. Senate candidates and small group discussions with people in
various fields.
