Women continue legacy of 25 years on Patterson Court

By KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

Twenty-five years ago, girls from the first four-year coeducational class at Davidson founded Rusk, an all-female eating-house, and the scene
on Patterson Court hasn’t been the same since. Regardless of whether you consider the addition of females to Davidson’s hallowed
halls a blessing or a curse, the fact remains: they certainly have had an impact on the Court.

In honor of Rusk’s quarter-centennial (an incredible feat, considering the relatively short life expectancy of so many other social outlets),
the Davidsonian is exploring the history of the houses down the hill. A chronology of the houses down the hill
reads like something out of a Tarantino film, full of reversals, confusing entrances and exits, and completely non-linear.

A little-known fact: Rusk was not the first non-fraternity establishment on the court. On the contrary, as soon as women
began transferring in, some houses were converted into coed eating houses similar to CoHo. The influx of women wreaked havoc
on the fairly fixed court scene. ATO and PiKA became temporarily coed, FIJI and SigEp moved off campus (partly in
response to the new self-selection policy), and a number of completely new, coed houses sprang up. Fanny & Mable, PAX,
Random House, and “Etc” soon followed the creatively named Emanon (“no name” spelled backwards) House.

Among all of this founding, dissolving, and off-campus-moving, construction of Vail Commons in the early 1980s required that some houses
be physically picked up and moved to new locations. But in 1977, those fickle femmes began to aspire for their
own house in the manner of the frats. Against fears that they would turn into a sorority, 46 girls joined
Rusk in its pilot year for the slim fare of $270 per term for food. KA donated old tables and
the school contributed money for other furnishings. Named for Dean Rusk, illustrious Davidson graduate numero uno, Rusk set the standard
for women’s eating-houses being named in honor of alumni.

By 1982, Rusk women founded Warner Hall to add variety and shrink Rusk to a more manageable size. Spencer, a
short-lived house, existed from 1986 until 1992. Connor (’91) and Turner (’99) have proved more resilient thus far. As all-women
eating-houses became more popular and populous, the coed houses of the past slipped into obscurity, with the last of the
original crowd, PAX, dissolving in 1990.

The sorority snake reared its head once again in 1997 when some raised the idea of adding national sororities to
Davidson, reportedly to coexist with the frats and eating-houses. After much warring of words, the sororities were held at bay,
while another one of those coeds, CoHo, once again joined the court. In 2001, female members of Patterson Court again
voiced desire for nationally affiliated sororities to no avail.

The Nancy K. and C. Shaw Smith Artist Series Presents
Puritans
Tickets: $10, $15, and $20 at the Union Ticket Office (x2135)
Monday - Friday 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.

By CHARLES CUMMINS
Special Contributor

As the vans pulled into the Union parking lot late last Monday afternoon, I thought back on my three-day adventure
to Capers Island over fall break. Having made it through an infestation of mosquitoes, a two-hour thunderstorm, and a late
night/early morning canoe ride home, my fellow participants and I got the rest, relaxation, and adventure we were looking for
and new friends along the way. Having not been on a DOTrip since Odyssey during the summer before freshman year,
I approached this trip with nervous anticipation. I knew I had an incredible time on Odyssey and made several good
friends, but could lightning strike twice? Indeed it did. It became quickly evident that this diverse group of Wildcats would
work well together. Starting at 7 a.m. Saturday morning, everyone, showing their lack of sleep, worked together to get the
canoes and all the supplies together for our four-hour trip to the boat docks just outside of Charleston, S.C. The
drive went quickly, with a mix of good music and good stories. Having bonded in the vans, we needed to
use that connection to work together, for the success of this trip would rely on teamwork. Having to pack, unpack,
and repack the canoes and supplies time and time again, no one ever complained. While our work together getting to
Capers was helpful, the teamwork was most evident and necessary during our midnight canoe trip home.

After enjoying a full day of swimming, walking the shoreline, and gazing at the passing wild dolphins, the leaders Adam
Chalker and Scott Reid gave us the bad news — with an 80 percent chance of thunderstorms for Monday and
a near 100 percent chance of thunderstorms with 20-25 knot winds going against us on Tuesday, we would be stuck
for days if we didn’t leave that night. Working together, we gathered our personal stuff and began to take down
the campsite as darkness descended, soon getting caught in a two-hour thunderstorm. For all of those fortunate enough to go
on DO trips, you know how uncomfortable the lightning position is, especially for long periods of time. But we kept
each other’s will up, allowing us to make it through the storm. With a break in the storm, we quickly
got everything into the canoes and set off for the dock. With lightning striking in the distance and unsure when
and if the next storm would hit, we made the typically two and a half hour trip in about an
hour and fifty minutes.

At around 1 a.m., we began the difficult process of unloading the canoes and reloading the vans. Tired from our
long night, we kept going, using a human assembly line to speed up the process. By the time we left
the docks, it was nearly 3:30 on Monday morning. Finally finding a campsite, we parked the vans and fell asleep.
Getting up in the morning after a short sleep, we made the journey home, getting back to Davidson around 6
p.m. and finishing unloading around 8 p.m. Separating to shower, we returned for a late dinner, eating the food we
still had left. Finally turning in for the night around 12:30, we gathered the next afternoon for s’mores, a viewing
of Office Space, and glimpses at the first pictures from the trip. Since that weekend, not a day goes by
that I don’t see a fellow member of the Capers Storm Crew. So was it worth it? Absolutely. In such
rugged situations, I found exactly what I was looking for, new friends and a new adventure, and I still have
the bug bites to prove it.

Cat Cards accepted!
Saturday, November 2, 2002 - 8:00 p.m. - Duke Family Performance Hall

The “Tamburitzans,” 40 college students from Duquesne University, perform each year at venues across the United States and overseas, with
the sole purpose of preserving and presenting traditional Eastern European music and dance. Colorful, traditional costumes, authentic instruments, beautiful voices,
and amazing energy all combine to create a spectacular evening!
