Friedell shoots sterling 67 on Sunday to capture 1st individual title of year
By Perry Lewis, Staff Writer

The men’s golf team posted its first tournament victory of the season this past weekend at the Sea Trail Men’s
Intercollegiate Golf Tournament at Sunset Beach, North Carolina. After day one, the Wildcats found themselves in fourth place, but their
second-day performance propelled the team to victory. Davidson shot an outstanding eight under par on Sunday for a combined 593
(293-280) to win the championship, just barely edging out host Elon College, which shot 576. Bethune-Cookman wasn’t far behind, firing
a 579.

“We were really pumped up for the match because we thought we had a really good team with a great
chance to win,” Freshman Christian Davis said following the tournament.

Davidson senior Ben Friedell won the individual championship with a two-day total score of 136. After the first day of
competition, Friedell found himself in second place after posting a very impressive three under 69. On Sunday, Friedell shot a
five under par 67 to take the individual title by three strokes over Matt Bliss (139) of Bethune-Cookman.

Hansell provides offensive
By Geoff Fehling, Staff Writer

Looking to rebound after a loss to UNC Wilmington, the men’s soccer team faced off against two very worthy opponents
last week. The Wildcats defeated conference foe College of Charleston, 1-0, on Wednesday, but then dropped a 2-1 overtime decision
to High Point on Saturday night, leaving the team at 3-2-1 on the season.

Davidson, playing in its first Southern Conference game, scored on a goal by junior Nick Hansell with about 15 minutes
left in the match to pick up the 1-0 win on the road at Charleston. Generating scoring opportunities was easier
with senior Joel Saddler in the lineup, as he returned from knee surgery and a bout with the flu.

“This was the first game in which Joel really displayed his creativity and he was directly involved in the game-winning
goal,” commented head coach Matt Spear.

Despite being outshot 5-0 in the first 45 minutes, the Wildcat defense proved impenetrable, earning senior goaltender Soren Johnson his
third shutout this season.

“Again our defense was excellent as we bent, but did not break,” said Davidson head coach Matt Spear. “A shutout
on the road against a good program is awesome.” Spear also partly attributed the defensive success to freshman talent. “Nahum
Navas and John Latting in particular were excellent,” he noted.

Although the team came away with a win, Spear did not feel that the offense played up to par. “We
did not piece together as much fluid offense as we would have liked,” he said. “But as the game wore
on, we began to generate opportunities. This was a big win as it’s our Conference opener. Charleston was picked ahead
of us, again, in the pre-season poll, so there was extra motivation. Every time we play them, it’s close and
intense.”

With some heavy momentum from the conference win, the Wildcats eagerly looked forward to the High Point contest on Saturday
night. Following a 30-minute delay due to technical difficulties in getting the lights on, the game commenced with Davidson grabbing
a quick lead when Hansell tallied his team-leading 5th goal of the season by scoring at the 24:06 minute mark
off an assist.from sophomore Ben Kittinger. Despite outshooting the Panthers 9-3, tournament. I thought about the individual title but realized
that I had to continue to play aggressive golf and keep making birdies because we, as a team, had to
go low to have a chance.” Sophomore Dan Koernke also placed in the top ten for the Wildcats, finishing ninth
for the tournament. Koernke shot three over for the tournament by firing a two-day total of 145 (71-74). After a
somewhat rocky start on Saturday, freshman Christian Davis rebounded from a 75 to post a one-over 72 on Sunday. Davis
had a two-day total of 147 that was good enough for 14th place in the tournament. Fellow freshman Tim Dillon
finished just one stroke behind Davis, shooting a two-day total of 148. Dillon posted a 78 on day one, only
to be backed up by a very strong 70 on Sunday. Rounding out Davidson’s top five was Dan Walker who
shot 152 for the tournament. Walker shot an 81 on Saturday, but returned Sunday with a solid round of even
par 71. “It was exciting to be part of the first win for Davidson College in a long time,” Friedell
said. “It is a difficult sport to judge success in because there are plenty of good teams and good players
who never actually win. Winning takes a little luck and a lot of good timing.” Coach Straud added, “The whole
team played really consistent golf this weekend and I thought Ben displayed really great senior leadership for our team.” Thirteen
teams competed in the event including Southern Conference rivals Western Carolina and Citadel. The team next competes at the River
Landing Intercollegiate in Wallace, N.C. in mid-October.

Davidson went into halftime leading just 1-0. Halfway through the second half, a foul committed inside the Davidson box gave
High Point a penalty shot. Driving a well-placed kick into the bottom right corner past Johnson, High Point’s Kenzo Tochiki
evened the score, and the game would go into overtime. Throughout the extra period, Davidson failed to convert numerous opportunities
to end the game. Sophomore Dan Ferriter ripped a shot from 30 yards out that bounced off the crossbar, coming
just inches away from winning the match. Just minutes later, High Point capitalized on a ball that slipped through Johnson’s
hands to give the Panthers the 2-1 upset win. Once again Spear was not impressed with his team’s offensive production.
“We need someone to step up offensively besides Nick Hansell,” he said. “I felt like we outplayed them, but in
soccer that doesn’t necessarily mean you’re going to win the game. High Point did what they needed to do to
gut out a tough away win.” The ‘Cats return to action this week with two upcoming home games, one against
SoCon challenger VMI on Wednesday at 4:40, and the other on Sunday against USC at 3:30 p.m.

The Davidsonian - Player of the Week
Ben Friedell ‘03
Golf
Hometown: Shaker Heights, Ohio
Major: Political Science
With rounds of 69 and 67, Friedell led Davidson to its first tournament victory this year, while also capturing the
individual title at the Sea Trail Invitational.

THE WEEK AHEAD
Friday
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country at Great American (Charlotte)
4:00 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. Chattanooga
1:00 p.m.
Field Hockey vs. Southwest Missouri State
1:00 p.m.
Football vs. Emory and Henry
1:00 p.m.

Sunday
Field Hockey vs. Southwest Missouri State
11:00 a.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. Western Carolina
1:00 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Georgia Southern
2:00 p.m.
Men’s Soccer vs. South Carolina
3:30 p.m.
Men’s Soccer at Duke
7:00 p.m.
