Body and Soul
A Column by the Health Advisors

The Health Advisors—so, who are we? No, we won’t make you trade the Ben and Jerry’s for an apple. And no, we won’t put out your cigarette or force you to floss (though you shouldn’t neglect your gums). We are trained to educate the campus about health issues, assist in awareness weeks, and pretty much just be available if you have a health problem and want some guidance. If we can’t help you directly, then we will refer you to someone who can—we work closely with Georgia Ringle and the Student Health and Counseling Center. This year the 4 happenin’ Health Advisors are as follows....

STEVEN CLUGSTON
“G’day. I’m Steve Clugston, currently a Junior attempting to complete a double major in Psychology and French. I have no idea where it’s gonna take me, but no worries! I am originally Australian, however, I have spent my life growing up in New Delhi (India) and Geneva (Switzerland) as well as traveling the world. I feel that my cultural experience is probably my greatest asset when it comes to talking to people. This will be my first year as a health advisor and a first responder; thus, I am thrilled to be part of these fantastic groups whose intentions focus on the well-being of students. My interest tends to focus on relationship problems (family, friends, and romantic) and dealing with difficult situations in general, however, I love talking about sex, drugs, and alcohol as well. So, whether or not you are struggling with a personal issue, come strike up a convo about any of the aforementioned.”

JENNIFER GREENE
“Hmmm... what to tell you about myself? I’m a Junior Psychology Major who has already been bitten by her rat in Neuroscience. I’m a Bonner Scholar, and I teach piano to children in the community. This is my second year as an RA, living on Fourth Belk this time. (Yea Fourth Belkers!) This is my first year as a health advisor, and my strength lies in women’s health, particularly yearly physicals, contraceptive options, emergency medications, etc. I also can field questions in other areas, though, so if you want to ask something, please feel free. I live in Belk 422 and my phone number is in the directory. I look forward to meeting you... take care, and have a wonderful year!”

LAUREN STUTTS
“Hi! I’m a sophomore, majoring in Psychology. I love kids, and I want to be a child/adolescent psychologist. The health topics I am the most familiar with are stress, disabilities, serious illnesses, and eating disorders. I am happy to help with any problem, though, so just email me or flag me down as I am rolling around campus in my wheelchair (watch your toes).”

FELICIA BROWNE
“Hey Peeps! I am a sophomore Psychology major with a Medical Humanities concentration. My primary goal for this year is to open the discussion of risky behaviors, because the reluctance to discuss these behaviors and their consequences contributes to their prevalence. Issues of great interest to me are substance abuse, stress, and sexuality, although I am familiar with most health issues. However, this does not mean that I know everything, which is why I want to emphasize the important role the Davidson community plays in our jobs. If you ever have any suggestions about health-related topics, ways to improve our programs, etc., please inform one of us because we are always looking for ways to be more effective.”

Precision Hair Cutting
Color, Highlights, Perms
Spa Manicures and Pedicures
704-987-1377
108 S. Main Street Suite E
Located near the Post Office
Walk-ins are welcome

Studio
Hair and Nail Design

Stylists: Peter DeLuke, Lisa Gabrielli, Suzette Pope, and Lale Ari

Specializing in the latest color techniques and styles as well as in facial waxing.

Licensed Nail Technician: Adele Carroll
Bring a friend and get 50% off Nail Service

LIVING Wednesday, September 11, 2002

In addition, many of Mayer’s songs could have been improved with more frequent, longer jam sections, but it seemed as though the band was intent on playing most of the songs straight through without any significant solo breaks.

All in all, each of the three groups offered a very impressive performance, and when such talented groups tour together it is never disappointing. John Mayer’s performance showed that he is still constantly dreaming up new ideas for songs and ways to play them, and it is certain that although he has gained popularity relatively quickly, he will not be going away any time soon.

As talented a songwriter and guitarist as Mayer is, his performance left something to be desired. One couldn’t help feeling that Mayer, who wrote most of his songs while he was performing solo on acoustic guitar, was not at his best in this setting.

While he was clearly the best musician onstage, his playing was too often drowned out by the other instrumentalists because of the heavy electric sound that the band tried to achieve. In contrast to Guster, whose members had been playing together for a long time and had a very tight sound, Mayer’s group sounded more like the collection of hired studio musicians that they were than a true band.

Brian Rosenworcel of Guster creates an unusual timbre by playing his drums and cymbals with his bare hands.

Photo by Matt Whited
Opening band Guster drew many devoted fans to Monday’s concert.