Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

EAE welcome spring with events, service. Fraternities and eating houses co-host parties, foster discussion and sponsor service events.

Kappa Alpha and Black Student Coalition team up to host ‘Middle School’ party

Two houses team up to combat stereotypes and meet new people

By Eric McKay AND Lewis Faulk Special Contributors

After several weeks of planning, the Black Student Coalition and the Kappa Alpha Order initiated an event that would introduce
the members of both houses to new friends and serve as an opportunity for open dialogue and interaction between them.
Mbye Nijie ‘04, member of the BSC and one of the key organizers for the event, accurately portrayed the sentiments
of other students involved in his statement, “The reason that I wanted this party was because of the stereotypes that
are attached to both KA and the BSC. Both of these houses have a stigma that only one group can
go into these two houses.”

On Friday, March 22, the members of KA and the BSC disregarded any previous stigmas and met at the BSC
house for a cookout and, later in the evening, at the KA house for an open party. Sunny weather and
nearly every member of both houses turned out for the cookout. Members of both houses agreed that there was much
more inter-house mingling and conversation than previously anticipated. As Nijie stated on behalf of his house, “We were extremely delighted
to have had the cookout with KA and... we also met a lot of cool people that we have not
met before.”

After the meal at the BSC, decorations were set up at KA for the party sponsored by both houses. The
party, dubbed “Middle School Party,” ran from 10:00 p.m. until 2:00 a.m., and was deemed by some attendees as “quite
simply the best party of the year.” By midnight the house was packed with students from very diverse backgrounds, as
not only members of the BSC and KA were present. Students affiliated with the other houses of Patterson Court and
also many independents showed up at the party making KA. “The party was a big success, mainly because it helped
me to eliminate any previous stereotypes about it,” as Nijie said when later commenting on the party’s success, “great to
see many groups of people that don’t normally hang out, at the party having fun together.”

Erika Dean ‘05, a freshman member of the BSC, added, “The party was a big success mainly because it helped
me to eliminate any previous stereotypes that I had about KA upon coming to Davidson.”

While the closing of the party at 2:00 Saturday morning marked an official end to the event, the connection it
opened between KA and the BSC had only begun. Due to its success, both houses hope to co-sponsor more events
in future semesters. There is already another function combining the two houses’ efforts in the works for this coming fall.

The presidents of the two houses were both enthusiastic about the event. “I was really proud of the members’ support
for the party and amazed at the turnout,” stated BSC President Leslie Grinage ’03. “It was community-building and an example
of something we need to see on this campus more often.”

“My hope is that this event fosters more interaction between groups on campus. It’s hard to push people out of
the comfort of their own social group, but the success of this party shows that it’s worth making the effort,”
added Graham Watson ’03, President of KA. “I had a great time hanging out with members of the BSC that
I already knew as well as meeting a lot of new people.”

Beyond altering people’s perceptions of the two Patterson Court houses, these types of social functions are promoting a greater sense
of community in Davidson’s social sphere. While it is the nature of individual groups to stick together and develop relationships
internally, this exclusive tendency can be detrimental to the broader community. The BSC and KA are working together to break
down social barriers and enhance community life at Davidson College.

- Erika Dean ‘05

Connor hosts annual Bosom Buddies dinner

Proceeds from silent auction will benefit breast cancer research

By Beth Corrigan Special Contributor

On April 16, 2002, Connor House will host its second annual “Bosom Buddies” dinner and silent auction in support of
Friends You Can Count On, an organization based in Greensboro that supports innovative breast cancer research. Last year, Connor raised
over $7,000 and the girls hope to reach this goal again this year.

---Beach ‘04, co-service chair for Connor, remarked, “Last year we were very successful and hope to be equally as successful
this year; however, we would like to see more faculty and student attendance at ‘Bosom Buddies,’ because, after all, this
is a Davidson event.” Dr. James Boyd, a renowned Charlotte oncologist, is the guest speaker at the dinner. In addition,
the Delilahs will be performing along with Jodi McQuillen ‘04, a harpist. Area businesses have been very supportive and have
donated numerous items to the silent auction. Some of the highlights include: a Vera Bradley bag, jewelry, furniture, gift certificates
to area restaurants, two season tickets to Davidson basketball games, printers, and much more. All are encouraged to attend this
exciting event. The tickets are $25 (students receive a $10 discount). Also, look for Connor girls at the upcoming health
fair on April 10. If you are interested in attending “Bosom Buddies” or would like to make a donation, please
contact Beth Corrigan (894-6597) or Alaina Beach (894-6528).

Connor House invites female staff and faculty to discuss women’s issues at weekly meeting
Informal discussions sponsored in honor of Women’s Month
By SHANNON BISHOP
Special Contributor

In honor of Women’s Month, 15 female staff and faculty members joined Connor House’s weekly meeting to moderate informal discussions
of issues facing women at Davidson. The evening enabled Connor members to praise Davidson successes, find comfort in shared experiences,
and gain an appreciation for the female role models we have on campus. “What happens outside of class is enormously
important and allows us to begin to learn new things from one another,” said Dr. Sharon Green, a professor in
the Theater Department. “I really enjoyed and appreciated our conversations we had and it was good to know that professors
are really interested in what we have to say and how we feel as students,” commented Amanda Young ’04. “I
would really love it (and I am sure I speak for others who were there tonight) if we could make
this a more common occurrence. It’s a real blessing to be at a school like Davidson where these gatherings can
be so personal.”

Dean of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano also found the discussion valuable. “I really enjoyed participating in the event. It’s invigorating
to get together with such accomplished and energetic women.” The evening allowed Connor women to take advantage of the female
resources we have on campus. As history professor Dr. Sally McMillen commented, “I think the discussions hit a sensitive chord.”
Connor House would like to thank all the faculty and staff members who facilitated this experience. It is crucial for
Patterson Court and Connor to continue this type of conversation, camaraderie, and development.

**Must be a college graduate within the past two years, a college senior currently enrolled in a four-year program and
will receive your degree within 12 months from an accredited U.S. college or university, or a student currently enrolled in
a U.S. masters or doctoral program. Required to show documentation such as an application for graduation to Mitsubishi retailer for
participation. **First payment is due 90 days, and finance charges begin 90 days from when contract is signed. In Maine,
zero finance charges limited to 90 days and zero payments limited to 90 days. Program available through participating retailers and
applies to new 2001 and 2002 models only. Excludes 2003 Eclipse and Lancer Evolution. Some customers will not qualify. Actual
price set by retailer. Retailer terms and vehicle contract must be signed by program end date of 4/30/02. See participating
retailer or call 1-888-MITSU2002 for details. ***7 Rally Edition shown, MSRP $15,597, plus $545 destination/handling ($670 Alaska). Excludes tax, title,
and license. Actual prices set by retailers. Vehicle shown is from the December ‘01 issue.
