Le Di Davinsoman — News — March 27, 2002

Reproductive Rights Alliance’s “Faith and Choice Week” sparks discussion on religion’s role in reproductive issues

RRAD sponsors week of lunchtime discussions, closing dinner and lecture

By Lindy BALDWIN
News Editor

Being the President of a pro-choice organization on a small, conservative Southern campus might prompt most people to shy away entirely from religious issues and activities. Kristine Harrington ’03 and the Reproductive Rights Alliance of Davidson, however, have done exactly the opposite by devoting an entire week of planning and participation to “Faith and Choice Week.”

Held the week of March 18, Faith and Choice Week was meant to foster discussion about the role religion and religious issues play in reproductive politics — especially the abortion question. Aside from organizations like NOW (National Organization for Women) and Planned Parenthood, some of the biggest voices in the abortion debate are those of people like Pat Robertson, head of the Christian Coalition.

Clearly, religion plays a large role in American reproductive politics. With this event, RRAD sought to explore the issues of faith and choice more deeply than is often done on the national scene. Four lunchtime discussions on a variety of topics were spread out through the week. Harrington led round-table discussions on “The Bible and Personhood” and “Religious Diversity in America.” Wednesday’s moving discussion was led by Rev. Brenda Tapia, who spoke about her experiences as an abortion counselor in Atlanta prior to her ordination as a Presbyterian minister. She bluntly asserted that “abortion is the taking of a life” but also argued that “there is nothing we can do that God cannot forgive” and emphasized that the vast majority of women she counseled were not using abortion as “birth control.”

The final discussion, on “The Bible and Sexuality,” was led by Rev. Craig Kocher of Davidson United Methodist Church. On Tuesday evening, RRAD members screened an episode of “60 Minutes,” in which a fundamentalist Lutheran minister asserted that it was a Christian’s duty to kill abortion clinic workers, especially doctors. Afterwards, those in attendance discussed the video. Many pro-life students argued that such extremism counters the values and goals of the pro-life movement.

The culminating event of “Faith and Choice Week” was Thursday night’s dinner and discussion, co-sponsored by the Lilly Program. Students who attended the dinner sat with a discussion leader. Three local religious leaders — Davidson College chaplain Rob Spach, Rev. Kocher, and Barb Bagnall from Catholic Campus Ministries — volunteered as discussion leaders. All those present listened to the keynote speech from the Reverend Alec Alvord, a United Methodist minister and member of Clergy for Choice. A native of Zimbabwe, Alvord earned his PhD from Duke University and preached in Africa and the United States.

CATEGORY III ELECTIONS RESULTS

RISING SENIOR CLASS PRESIDENT
Kristine Harrington ‘03

RISING SENIOR SGA SENATOR
Kevin Epps
Susanne Francis
Graham Watson

RISING JUNIOR CLASS PRESIDENT
Adam Sperling

RISING JUNIOR SGA SENATOR
Tiffany Hollis
Elizabeth Matthews

RISING SENIOR HONOR COUNCIL
Matt Chapman
Rebecca Stewart

RISING JUNIOR HONOR COUNCIL
Welles Campbell
Zeb Kelley
Bryan Stonestreet
Beth Vazquez

RISING SOPHOMORE CLASS PRESIDENT
Chris Dist enpels

RISING SOPHOMORE SGA SENATOR RUN-OFFS
Adam Gerstenmier
Kathrine Hubbard

RISING SOPHOMORE HONOR COUNCIL
Adam Hart
Jamie Felton
Trisha BlackwellUnited States for thirty-five years before retiring in June 2000. His speech centered on Clergy for Choice’s motto - “Pro-Faith, Pro-Family, Pro-Choice” - and cited the book of Genesis to argue that the Bible equates life with breath. Others present at the dinner argued that there was also significance to a heartbeat and wondered about how this definition of life might be affected by modern medicine’s ability to sustain life even when independent breathing is no longer possible.

Overall, RRAD members were delighted with the week’s results. “I think ‘Faith and Choice Week’ was an enormous success overall,” stated Harrington. “We got a great response from students and faculty alike, and it seemed like there was a real diversity of opinions represented at our events. The week was a testament to the fact that it is indeed possible to have respectful discussion about this very important issue.” The success of this year’s endeavor has bolstered RRAD’s determination to continue exploring issues of religion and reproductive rights. “We definitely plan to make this an annual event, and we welcome any suggestions or input about how to make it better,” said Harrington.

Trials, from page 1

Provision to fund legal assistance. Some students cannot afford to bring their parents to a trial either, often creating a bias in favor of those who can. Under the new wording, all those acting as additional counsel are asked to sit outside of the trial, thus reestablishing equity between those who can and cannot afford to have such counsel in the first place. “The new changes serve to make sure that all Honor Council trials are fair and consistent,” commented Honor Council Chair Rebecca Moore ’03. “No outside people will be permitted to attend the trials, and Honor Council members will not be influenced by their presence. This helps to ensure that the trials are completely student-run, preserving an important part of Davidson’s honor system.” Vagt concurred with Moore’s assessment. “I think it’s a very thoughtful change, and probably one which is more consistent with what the process is intended to be,” adding that the modification may help guide honor trials away from the trappings of “L.A. Law”-type court proceedings.

Original Policy

(g) Right of counsel. In addition to the Defense Advisors, the accused has the right to be accompanied at the hearing by counsel of his or her choice, and to be advised by counsel in the conduct of his or her defense. To aid this, the Council may provide appropriate recesses from time to time. But counsel may not participate directly in the hearing either by questioning witnesses, offering evidence, objecting to procedures and rulings, making statements or arguments to the Council, or otherwise.

Amended Policy

(g) An accused student may request additional persons (i.e., family member, minister, lawyer) be allowed to sit in a nearby waiting room during the proceedings of the Honor Council. To facilitate personal support and counsel to the accused, the chair may provide appropriate recesses from time to time. However, such persons shall not be permitted to sit in the hearing room during a closed hearing. Additional students may be permitted in the hearing room during the hearing at the discretion of the Chair; these additional students may not speak during the proceedings.

~ To view the changes online please go to http://www.davidson.edu/student/redbook/honordiscipline.html

Break The Soda Shop SINCE 1951

Fast Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes
Milkshakes

104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC
Eat-in Take-out