— Slam: Quinn Seniors Win Four Watson Fellowships

Watson, from page 1

things.”

Her study includes travel through Northern and Southern Europe, Asia, the Near East, and the Pacific.

Dillard says she chose this project because “I think physical beauty is something many people struggle to accept. Why does
America have such a high rate of anorexia and bulimia? Though there is not one answer, I would like to
perhaps find some causes and maybe one day, I'll be able to help someone,” she explains.

“Simply winning means that I must have been doing something right while here at Davidson,” she said. “It also means
a chance to be an explorer—not only because I’m going to many places, but because I will be exploring people’s
hearts and minds. A lot of my project involves meeting and talking to people. I’m always excited about meeting someone
new.”

Dillard credits Davidson for the role it played in assisting her in her accomplishment. “Davidson played a huge role. If
I had not been encouraged by the likes of Mrs. Ortmayer in Study Abroad, Dr. Fox, Dean Ernest Jeffries and
many others, I may have never traveled abroad during the summer of 2000. That one trip led me to go
abroad two more times—all 3 experiences showed me that I suffer from wanderlust and that I was meant to be
a traveler. That, in turn, was one reason I applied for the Fellowship.”

She also received support from faculty, staff, her advisor, family, and friends.

Another winner, Hartman, is a biology major from Stuart, Fla. She plans to investigate “cultural differences in palliative care at
grass-roots hospices” in three impoverished nations.

“Essentially, I want to learn how people that care for dying patients think about God,” explained Hartman. “Is there a
requisite framework that one must have in order to tolerate the emotional toil of daily work with death? Do you
have to believe in an afterlife or divine spirit/soul to find comfort in your ministry? What are their motivations? How
does culture shape all of this?”

Hollis, a political science major from Hamburg, N.Y., designed a project studying the “new types of species preservation programs for
sea turtles and how they affect the relationships between the sea turtles and coastal communities.”

“I created this project because it blends a lot of my interests together. I’m interested in species preservation programs, community
dynamics and how people interact with endangered species. I find sea turtles fascinating and I really enjoy tropical weather and
sandy beaches.”

His project will take him to Kenya in August, September and October; Costa Rica in November, December and January; Seychelles
in February, March and April, and the Cook Islands in May, June and July.

“I heard about the Watson my sophomore year in Dr. Chaston’s microeconomic class,” said Hollis. “It seemed like such a
great opportunity. I knew then I wanted to do something and had a few ideas; but, it wasn’t until I
spent some time in Thailand that I made the mental connections between my interests and this particular project started coming
together.”

The highlight of the Fellowship, he explained, is that “it gives me the chance to devote time to a topic
I find personally interesting. The Fellowship also allows me to spend an extended period of time in places I might
not otherwise get to.”

The best part of winning the award, he said, was “discovering that all four of us had won.”

The final recipient of the Fellowship is Adam Norris, an economics major from McConnelsville, Ohio. He plans to study the
“differences in rural health care delivery in Switzerland, New Zealand, Palau, and Costa Rica.”

“Over the last year I have been planning a journey that would take me to some of the world’s finest
health care systems to nations that struggle, and are overcoming, some of the health care problems that this nation faces,”
Norris explained.

“My interest in health care began while at Davidson with Professor Kelly Chaston of the Economics Department who helped to
develop and enrich my passion for the topic in classes and research.”

College president Bobby Vagt was delighted with Davidson’s “grand slam” of four winners. “I think it is an accurate and
wonderful reflection of the quality of the students here,” he said, adding that the Watson Foundation director included a personal
note congratulating Davidson on its students’ achievements.

The Thomas J. Watson Foundation was established by Mrs. Thomas J. Watson in 1961 as a charitable trust in memory
of her husband. In 1968 the Watson children decided to expand the Watson Fellowship as the main component of the
foundation. Since then the Fellowship Program has granted more than 2,000 Watson Fellowship awards totaling around $23 million. The foundation
selects annual winners from nominees submitted by 50 select institutions.
