The following is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Involving alcohol on the Van. Express rules and regulations were approved by SGA in order to more strictly enforce previously unwritten guidelines for the functioning of the Vamanos Van and its drivers. The RLO Committee kept busy throughout the semester, keeping SGA up-to-date on developments with the Martin Court housing lottery and the possible creation of more smoke-free dorms on campus. Animated debate arose when Dean Marsicano and Leslie Urban of RLO came to discuss lottery policy with the senators; RLO is now considering the implementation of a “pure” housing lottery for seniors (as opposed to the RLO-conducted current system which takes preferences and behavioral records into account). SGA also debated the merits and drawbacks of converting all on-campus housing (except meetings, because the only information senators have received is a list of positive aspects of smoke-free living as drawn up by RLO). Finally, at the last meeting, Senator Chris Pratt-Dannals ’05 announced that Joel’s Grill has followed Domino’s Pizza: students may now use their Domino’s PIN to purchase delivery food with their CatCards. Senator Kathryn Wilson ’06 also discussed the school’s commitment to bettering handicap accessibility around campus. Although Davidson will soon have to spend millions of dollars to completely comply with Americans with Disability (ADA) standards, the Physical Plant is looking to complete some projects before the end of the school year. Davidson has hired ADA consultants to assess what needs to be done for compliance with federal regulations; the consultants’ report will come out in March.

Charlotte, from page 1

The cross-country rivalry captures fans’ interest every year. “It’s a great atmosphere,” said Davidson assistant coach Jason Zimmerman. “Two teams 15 miles apart. There’s a lot of history there. It’s an exciting game.” After losing five seniors from a team that reached the NCAA Tournament last year, most experts expected the Wildcats to struggle with returnees adjusting to new positions and three freshmen forced into playing heavy minutes. But a smooth transition to point guard for Wayne Bernard (17 points, seven assists per game) and an eye-opening start by the freshmen, primarily Ian Johnson (16 points per game), is changing those expectations. After the near-upset of Duke, CBS commentator Billy Packer listed Davidson as one of four “surprise teams” in college basketball. ESPN’s Dick Vitale also singled out Johnson’s play and described Davidson as a mid-major team to watch. “Even though we didn’t get a W against Duke, we were within six points to a ranked team,” said Bernard. “Not many teams can even come that close. A lot of people underestimated us. I might be a little extra-excited about this [Charlotte] game.”

FAMILY CUTS Hair Salon (Under New Management) 704-896-8440 Haircuts - Color - Styling - Perms - Waxing No Appointment Necessary (Recommended for color and perms) Open 7 Days a Week Mon-Fri. 9:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m. Saturday 9:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. Sunday 11:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 20121 #C North Main St. Cornelius Cornelius Town Center Exit 28 (115 and Catawba Ave.) Located near the Food Lion Family Cuts Now at Exit 28 Retail and Skin care Products available 10% off all services to Davidson Students

By BRANDON CARROLL Staff Writer

Is Davidson a stressful place? Three studio art students thought so, and reached out to the community for their recent project. The goal of Sian Jones ’05, Lindsay Nakaishi ’05, and Rachel Jenkins ’06 was to create an installation that Jones described as “basically non-traditional art that conveys its meaning by how the viewer interacts with it.” The assignment was a final project for Professor Ray Kleinlein’s studio art class. The students put out a bulletin that ran in The Crier for several days. They asked for submissions of any sort, initially in the form of old exams, professors’ comments, term papers, etc. In the end, students anonymously wrote their own reactions and thoughts about stress at Davidson on small strips of paper, which were compiled to create the content. Jones said, “I think that the idea of the project, more than making a statement about our levels of stress, was to get people talking about all the work we have and whether it is all necessary.” Jenkins said, “We wanted toquestion whether it’s necessary or whether we bring it upon ourselves, and the repercussions in non-academic life.” The project was on display in the Union and outside the library. It recently moved to a new home in Chambers, where you may have passed it on your way to class. Speaking about the Davidson community, Jones feels that the stress level should be part of the campus dialogue. “I think that the amount of work we are given here, combined with all the other things that we are expected to do such as community service, sports, etc., puts most people in a position where if they aren’t doing work they are constantly aware of what is looming in the future and what they should be doing.” She added that she knows many students who are “burned out,” and sometimes feels that way herself, and she thought “starting a dialogue might be a good first step.” Jenkins admits that the academic work alone does not shoulder all the blame. “My reluctance and procrastination are the real causes of stress. As for the larger community, I think people let themselves get stressed too easily, because people feel like they should be stressed in order to be productive or a good citizen or a normal person, when that’s not true at all. Our environment trains us to be stressed.” On the subject of a positive campus reaction, she added, “I think it would be nice for people to just stop and take a few deep breaths every once in a while. Students, myself included, should probably learn to spend time wisely to avoid stress at the last minute. Professors could give us more freedom and room for creativity in assignments so that we can get excited about our work and not just plug and chug.” Justin Neill, a first-year student, commented on the level of stress. “I feel like there is a lot of work here, but then there are people playing football in the hallway right now. There’s stuff going on like that all the time. Some people are stressed, but it seems like other people never are.” With the stress art on display in such prominent locations, it will be visible to prospective students taking tours of the campus. Admissions officer Mike Brady commented about how the display might affect prospective students’ perceptions of Davidson, saying that the office is concerned insofar as any event on campus might affect prospective students’ views. “We're always concerned about families’ views from tours,” he said. He added that during an information session last week one question did bring up the display, but only served to reinforce what parents and applicants already knew: Davidson carries a demanding workload. He continued, saying, “Davidson sells itself, and we don’t have to represent it or misrepresent it. That’s the same reason we keep current issues of the Davidsonian in our lobby. We talk to families, and we want to answer their questions. Our goal is to represent Davidson to families as honestly and truthfully as we can, and that includes what students are talking about.”

Recharge on Reading Day with some coffee or hot cocoa in a Davidson latte mug in the 900 Room at 10 PM, sponsored by RLO.

Careers in... (Presented by Career Services Office)
Careers in Business: Sales, Financial Planner, Real Estate Development, Cash Management, Corporate Accountant, Credit Analyst, Corporate Logistics
Wednesday, January 22, 7 PM, location TBA

The Senior Class Gift has reached 79% pledged + paid participation! Many seniors have already pledged to give: pay your pledge before Senior Week to get it out of the way! Just log on to https://www to pay your pledge. If the Class of 2003 reaches 75% PAID participation, President and Mrs. Vagt will donate $12,003 on behalf of the Senior Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Don’t miss your opportunity to support Davidson and show your class pride!

Upcoming events:
- “Careers in...” Series continues with monthly events through April
- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue throughout the academic year

Good luck on exams and enjoy your break!