LAKE NORMAN

Hours:
7:30-5:30 M-F
8:00-12:00 Sat.

CORNELIUS, NC

PHONE - (704) 892-6590
FAX - (704) 892-6596

Let’s Go ’Cats!
Firestone DAYTON

Court advisor: Students will pay for damages and are on social probation

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

The students who admitted to vandalizing Patterson Court houses in February will pay for damages and be placed on social
probation.

Patterson Court Advisor Grahaeme Hesp said the total estimate for repairing damages and replacing lost food at Sigma Phi Epsilon,
Warner Hall, and Rusk came to $6,450.

The students were charged with Code of Responsibility violations and sanctioned through the Dean of Students Office, Hesp said.

Assistant Dean of Student Life Ernest Jeffries declined to comment on the cases, citing federal and school privacy laws. He
said they would be included in the annual Code of Responsibility case reports that are released at the end of
every semester.

Floors and tables at Sig Ep were littered with broken window glass and food, and the new pool table was
covered with canned beans and feces on the morning of Feb. 14.

At Rusk, vandals covered floors and tables with starch, syrup, and cereal. Food was dumped out on the floors, and
the decorations for Rusk’s semi-formal were damaged. Later that weekend, 13 cases of beer were stolen from a locked cabinet
in another break-in.

Warner Hall’s kitchen was broken into twice, and the kitchen door was kicked open, resulting in serious damage to the
door.

CoHo’s kitchen was also vandalized, though not to the extent of the other houses.

An investigation by sophomore Beau Dasher ‘04, Patterson Court Council Sergeant-at-Arms, determined that the students acted alone, rather than with
the encouragement of any houses. In light of the report, administrators decided not to press charges against any house with
which any of the perpetrators were associated.

“We looked into a couple of situations, and decided there was nothing there that tied it to any individual organizations,”
said Hesp.

College President Bobby Vagt said he is satisfied that the perpetrators took responsibility for their actions.

“I am pleased and proud that people came forward,” he said. “That’s not an easy thing to do... It doesn’t
change what happened, but it does say that there are some good things [to come out of it].”

PCC officials and school administrators now have turned their attention to preventing similar acts of vandalism from occurring again.

“It may be that [vandalism] is a common occurrence... but I don’t accept it as commonplace for students at Davidson
College,” said Vagt. “I’m not trying to make archangels out of every student, but I do respect the propriety of
the ones we have here.”

Houses have begun locking their doors more carefully, and PCC is considering launching a program next spring to educate new
house members on community standards. But the best deterrent to vandalism, said Hesp, is awareness.

“Obviously, it can happen again,” he said. “I think if we all act as this community that we profess we
are, and let people know that behavior like this won’t be tolerated, then it shouldn’t happen again.

“We can’t be there 24 hours a day. That’s where general community standards come in.”

Asked whether publicizing the punishments could serve as a deterrent to would-be vandals, Jeffries said: “I don’t really know whether
putting sanctions out there (in public) would deter people. I don’t advocate doing that from an administrative standpoint.”

Sig Ep President Jimmy Swansbrough, whose house was damaged most severely, said house presidents should take the lead in educating
members about proper behavior.

“As presidents, we should know the sentiments of our houses,” he said. “We’re in a very precarious position in that
we assume liability for our houses. It starts with us.”

But in his view, students can’t do it alone.

“Treating others with civility has always been a problem, especially when alcohol is involved. PCC should be the first step
in changing that. The faculty and administration should play a large role as well. They shouldn’t just leave it to
the students. We try, but we’re not completely mature yet.”

Mexico/Caribbean:
$300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE
www.airtech.com
or 212-219-7000

Receive A 5% Discount With A Valid Davidson College ID
Offer applies to faculty, staff, and students!

FULL LINE OF GENERAL REPAIR WORK ON FOREIGN & AMERICAN AUTOS
Quality Repair By People Who Care!!!

MICHELIN DUNLOP
