By Richard Guyer ‘06
Columnist

The Republicans won a historic victory last week that, along with the Republican Revolution of 1994, is one of the
greatest midterm victories ever in Congress for either major party. The question now is what this victory will mean for
the 108th Congress, the Bush Administration, and the future of American politics.

The Republican legislative agenda, spearheaded by tax cuts, Social Security reform, market-based prescription drug coverage for seniors, and a new
Department of Homeland Security (unencumbered by labor union contracts), should have many of its key components become law. Other measures,
such as bans on human cloning and partial-birth abortion, somewhat limited tort reform, and a national energy policy also stand
a good chance of being enacted. With conservatives solidly in control of all three branches of government, there should be
little meaningful opposition to any of these initiatives.

The newly Republican Senate also can be expected to rapidly confirm many of President Bush’s judicial nominees, who until this
time have been left in limbo by the obstructionist tactics of Senators Tom Daschle and Patrick Leahy. It is only
a matter of time before highly qualified, conservative judges like Miguel Estrada take their seats on the federal bench.

The biggest danger for President Bush and his allies in Congress will be adopting too conservative of an agenda, which
could galvanize liberals and alienate moderates who are currently leaning right. On the other hand, the GOP must be cautious
not to adopt too centrist a stance, which would give its conservative base no reason to go to the polls
in 2004.

The results of last week’s balloting have also served to solidify the South as a Republican stronghold. A trend that
began more than 30 years ago was made complete by the GOP sweep in Georgia, which until last week was
the last Democratic stronghold in Dixie. The list of prominent Republicans from the South (George and Jeb Bush, Dick Armey,
Trent Lott, Newt Gingrich, Tom DeLay, Jesse Helms, and Phil Graham, to name a few) is impressive and growing. The
Northeast and Midwest appear to be political no-man’s-lands, and the Pacific Coast states remain firmly Democratic.

There ought to be much progress over the next two years, and (extremely) early indicators are that 2004 will be
another solid year for the GOP. Since the Reagan presidency, Republicans have become very good at winning elections. If they
want their success to continue, they must become good at something the Democrats mastered when Roosevelt was in the White
House: implementing their agenda without alienating the voters.

Voters want help from legislators, no matter which party they’re from

By Peter Lipsett
Guest Columnist

Think back to your best Christmas ever, that year when you got everything you wanted, even the toys you weren’t
expecting. For the Republican Party, this year’s Election Day was similar to that perfect Christmas. The GOP not only retained
its dominance of governorships, but it surprisingly strengthened its majority in the House and reclaimed control of the Senate. Add
these victories to the party’s strong grip on the executive and judicial branches and you can see why Republicans have
been all smiles lately.

Last Tuesday’s electoral upset was not a foregone conclusion by any means. The polls and the pundits went back and
forth over who would ultimately prevail. Everyone knew that if the Republicans gained seats, this election would buck one of
the most sacred theories in political science — a first-term president’s party will always lose seats in a midterm election.
Period. FDR was the last to buck this trend, way back in the 30s. To either take control of the
Senate or to maintain control of the House would have been a major coup. Asking for both would merely be
wishful thinking.

Careful what you wish for, though, because you might just have to legislate with it. Since they did get their
way (and more) on Election Day, the Congressional Republicans can essentially do anything they want over the next two years.
Following their own strict agenda, however, could make them lose sight of what Americans want. If that happens, the Democrats
will make them pay in the high-stakes 2004 election. If power swells the GOP’s heads and Americans feel ignored by
the Republican Congress, voters stand to offer the Democrats the same opportunity they’ve now given to the GOP.

Americans are not intrinsically Republican or Democrat. They just want to feel that someone is listening to them, standing up
for them, and protecting them.

What does the GOP need to do? First, it has to remember that the Democrats are not the enemy, as
much of a nuisance as they will be. For Americans to respect Congress’s decisions, Republicans need to compromise with Democrats
just enough to keep Democrats from yelling too loud when they don’t get their way. If Republicans completely gloss over
Democratic concerns on every issue simply because they can, it will come back to haunt them in the future.

Second, while extending the olive branch with one hand, the Republicans should steal away some traditionally Democratic issues with the
other. The Dems are still reeling from Bush stealing education from them, and something similar may happen with the prescription
drug issue. Why not do the same thing with a few key environmental or globalization issues? Then, in 2004, the
GOP can campaign with the laundry list of things that Democrats always promised but could never deliver. Your average American
doesn’t care who comes through with what they want, so long as someone does, and that someone usually gets rewarded.

Finally, congressional Republicans have to put some distance between themselves and the President, despite the fact that many candidates are
indebted to him for their victory. Congress will face an image problem if it appears to rubberstamp everything from the
White House. Even in situations where the president gets what he wants in the end, honest debate and careful consideration
in Congress will go a long way with the voters.

Americans are not intrinsically Republican or Democrat. They just want to feel that someone is listening to them, standing up
for them, and protecting them. The Republicans have an incredible opportunity to provide that kind ofsupport over the next two
years, and, if they succeed, for many years to come.

But not forgotten

A long time ago... In a court far, far away... It was a land of promise. A land of opportunity.
Patterson Court circa 2000. The Court was infinitely more fun then than it is now. Any night of the week
you could find a Beirut game somewhere. Usually, there were multiple games, at multiple houses. And in general, you were
always welcome. Even I should know, I was one. It was great.

After the festivities wound down, you could go to a place called the Outpost. Underclassmen have only heard the myth
that is the Outpost. Most upperclassmen can hardly bear to think about it without getting a tad sentimental. The Outpost,
for those of you who don’t know, was essentially a house on the Court that served overpriced, greasy food till
3 a.m. Which makes it not unlike the Union Café we have today. But the similarities between the two end
there. First, the Outpost was actually on the Court, which not only made it more accessible from your starting point
but also gave it less of an administrative feel. You could go to the Outpost inebriated without the fear of
getting in trouble because you made a drunken ass of yourself. Most people there were in the same state as
you, and those who weren’t at least understood what they were getting themselves into. It was like a meeting place
for anyone who was out that night. A congregation of partygoers if you will. At the end of your evening,
you went to the Outpost and chilled for a while—attempting to sober up before bed. You never knew whom you
might run into. There was even the possibility of seeing a fight. Good luck witnessing a nice drunken brawl in
the Café.

The Court is a shell of its former self, and I blame it all on the new Union. Don’t get
me wrong. Knobloch is a great place and a vast improvement over the old building. But since the place opened,
the Patterson Court scene has declined immeasurably. Why has this happened? Conspiracy theorists (me) would claim that it’s all part
of a concerted effort by the administration to increase Davidson’s sense of “community” by making us all a member of
the “Fraternity of the Union (FU).” Think about it. The advent of the Union saw a sudden enforcement of the
drinking games rule. It signaled the death knell for above-ground Beirut. It was like losing a close friend. Then the
powers-that-be decided to close the Outpost for good. “The new Café can not only replace the old Outpost, but exceed
it,” they said. The food is, more or less, the same. But the Café is not the Outpost, and it
never will be. It seems a little counter-productive to increase the “Davidson community” by closing a building where basically everyone
felt welcome. It didn’t matter who you were, and it didn’t matter what house you were in. The new Café
still provides greasy, overpriced quesadillas. But the atmosphere is wrong, and the walk is too damn long. I miss the
Outpost more than I miss nightly Beirut games. I’m not kidding. Unfortunately, those days are long gone, and they’re not
likely to return. The completion of “Big Knob” ended an era. The Court still offers things the Union can’t (free
Beast). But I still miss the Outpost, and I’m probably never going to get over it.

Trust the IMF? Not likely for Latin American nations
By Ricardo Ampudia ‘04
Columnist

There has been a noticeable trend in Latin America towards the left over recent years. But this is not your
typical “Democrat-left” trend. No, this is much farther. It is in part because a majority of Latin Americans became disappointed
with the “neo-liberal” model that recommends opening up trade barriers and diminishing government intervention. The people are not satisfied with
the results. Chile, the country that has adopted this model most “successfully,” has one of the world’s highest levels of
economic inequality. It is also uncertain to Latin Americans whether organizations such as the IMF and the World Bank, great
monopolies of economic development theory worldwide, are sensitive to social conditions in the region.

For example, when Argentina went into economic disaster in 2000, there was a great deal of social unrest and despair.
And rightly so: Argentina has a great amount of both natural and human resources (with high levels of education), it
has relatively solid social and government institutions (which enforced to a certain degree) and still, to the eyes of the
average Argentinean, the country is unable to develop. Thousands of people were losing their jobs and companies were going bankrupt.
The pegging of the Argentine peso to the dollar, once supported by the IMF, explained this in part. What did
the IMF do? It kept asking the Argentine government to cut spending on social programs, to give out less money
to the provinces, to make the labor market more flexible (to make it legally easier to fire workers when necessary),
to aggressively liberate the peso with respect to the dollar (making thousands of Argentines poorer overnight) and to keep paying
down external debt. Though it is true that the IMF needs to see a credible economic program from a government
before giving out loans, it should be less stubborn. Its policies are often politically unfeasible. People already are angry because
of the current situation. To ask a government to strangle the majority even more is inconsiderate.

Even if the IMF’s policies were carried out successfully, they would clearly lead to the monopolization of the most important
industries in Latin America. This would lead, eventually, to very undemocratic systems, as these monopolies tend to work closely with
their governments to carry out their business interests, such as when Enron had managed to convince ex-president Menem to sell
a national energy company for less than 25% of its market value. With President Bush rallying the West in its
War on Terror, and with his administration at the disposition of large U.S. corporations, we can expect to see little
change in the IMF’s policies for a good while. Meanwhile, the people of Latin America will be ever more justified
not to welcome U.S. or IMF intervention in the future.
