By Mike GicLio
Sports Editor

After four straight victories and a push into fifth place in the competitive Southern Conference, the Davidson Volleyball team likes its chances at the SoCon title as it drives ahead into the final month of the regular season. Victories over cross-town rival UNC Charlotte and league opponents Appalachian State, East Tennessee State, and Furman have put the Wildcats in the driver's seat with solely league matches remaining on the schedule.

Rebounding from a hard-fought loss to the College of Charleston, the ‘Cats defeated UNC Charlotte on October 8th (28-30, 35-33, 30-21, 18-30, 15-9) for only the second time in ten years. After losing the first game of the match, Davidson bounced back to take the next two and dominated the fifth and final game after jumping ahead to an 8-0 lead. Julia Hueckel led the way with fifteen putaways and an attack percentage of .520. Setter Nicole Tonelli had an impressive night with forty-eight assists and a match-high five service aces.

The Wildcats moved into fifth place in the Southern Conference on October 11th with a victory (30-22, 30-22, 28-30, 30-19) over Appalachian State. After losing a close game three, the ‘Cats jumped to an early lead in the fourth game and never looked back. Roberta Quis led the team with fourteen putaways, while Tisha Chapman put up a double-double with ten kills and ten blocks.

Davidson continued its league success on October 12th against East Tennessee State by decisively sweeping the Bucs 30-27, 30-19, and 30-23. After allowing ETS to gain an early lead in the first game, Hueckel and Rebecca Teichgraeber stepped up to put the game away and set the tone for the rest of the match. Sophomore Tamara Gallen had a match-high seventeen digs for the ‘Cats. The win improved Davidson’s home record to 7-1 on the season, an impressive improvement on the Wildcats’ 8-8 home record last year.

On Friday, the ‘Cats faced and defeated Furman (30-18, 18-30, 32-30, 30-25) for the second time this season to move within one game of fourth place. In a closely contested match, Davidson wasn’t able to secure the victory until Sophomore Meredith Lorenz ended the fourth game with her ninth kill. Hueckel added thirteen kills and four blocks, and Teichgraeber had twelve kills and ten digs to hand the Paladins their first home loss of the season.

The Wildcats now stand at 14-8 overall and 7-3 in the Southern Conference as they enter the closing stretch of the season. “We are peaking right now, and the timing is perfect as we come closer to the Southern Conference tournament,” comments Quis. “These wins show just how much we have improved.” Teichgraeber agrees, “Our recent success is very encouraging. With only conference games remaining, we need to stay focused and consistent. If we continue to progress in this manner we should feel quite confident about our chances of winning the Southern Conference title.”

Club sports this weekend:
Rugby, Saturday TBA
Crew, Saturday 8-10 a.m.
Roller Hockey, Saturday and Sunday Exit 18 CSC

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team fell to 5-9 overall afterlosses to Wake Forest, William & Mary, and the University of Maryland. Despite these recent defeats, the Cats remain 3-1 in the Norpac Conference. Sophomore goaltender Sarah Nolan, the backbone of the team, played phenomenally, making 46 saves in the three games. Nolan improved to 119 saves on the season. The ‘Cats faced #4 Wake Forest on October 9th and although the Davidson defense fought hard, a lack of offensive opportunities resulted in a 4-0 loss to the Demon Deacons. Wake Forest clearly dominated the game, and with ten minutes remaining in the first half, they already held a 2-0 lead over the ‘Cats. During the second half, Nolan led the defensive unit in holding Wake scoreless for twenty minutes, but the Deacons notched two quick goals to seal the win. Davidson was unable to get a shot off against Wake and was held to zero penalty corners. Coach Lisa Thompson focused on the positive when discussing the game. On Nolan, who made twenty-five saves, she said, “Sarah was all over the cage tonight, stopping shots left and right. She really kept us in the game.”

The ‘Cats continued their play by traveling north to face the Tribe of William & Mary on October 12. Davidson was unable to keep up with the Tribe, falling 7-1 in the contest. Davidson’s Allison Matlack tipped a penalty corner pass to Kathleen Fenn, who scored the ‘Cats’ single goal with twelve minutes left in the game. Davidson was outshot 25-5, and the team took only five penalty corners to William & Mary’s eight. Nolan recorded six saves. The following day, Davidson took to the field against the #1 team in the nation, the Maryland Terrapins. While the Terrapins defeated Davidson 3-0, the ‘Cats never gave up, and impressively shut out the Terps in the second half. Nolan made 12 of her 15 saves in the second half, leading the ‘Cats in their second-half shutout. Davidson next plays on Wednesday, October 23rd, against Appalachian State. The ‘Cats are hungry for a win.

Lady harriers

The women’s cross-country team placed third behind Duke and Wake Forest on Saturday, Oct. 12, at the North Carolina Intercollegiate Championships at Lake Kristi in Greenville, NC. Last Saturday, however, the women stomped all their contenders on their way to winning Winthrop University’s Fall Classic. At the North Carolina Intercollegiate Championships, sophomore Anna Brew placed first for the Wildcats and eighteenth overall in the large field of runners, springing back from an injury that has prevented her from racing all season. Her time of 18:25 was outstanding enough to win her recognition as Southern Conference Runner of the Week. Freshman Allie Martin had yet another stellar performance, finishing second on the team with a time of 18:36. Junior captain Laura Puckett brought in third place for the Wildcats at 18:49, with sophomore Sally Stanhope close behind at 18:52. Senior captain Liz Gross boosted the score for the ‘Cats at 19:04, followed by Sarah Baxter at 19:10 and Hilary Leister at 19:19. Emily Einstein also contributed a solid finish against ranked opponents, finishing first with a time of 19:36, along with Carolyn Mohr at 20:00, Lindley Swartz at 20:11, Brooke Kittinger at 20:31, and Carissa Skrivanek at 20:56. The team was pleased with the fast course and good times, and many members set personal bests.

At the Winthrop Fall Classic, the women defeated conference foe Furman University, among others, as they cruised to a first-place finish. The trio of Brew, Martin, and Stanhope, with finishes at 4th, 5th, and 6th place, provided the basis for the Wildcats’ first-place team score. Those runners had times of 15:01, 15:04, and 15:08 on the 4K course. Leister and Puckett added to the score at 15:26 and 15:33, respectively. Gross ran a quick 15:46 and was followed by Einstein at 16:10 and Swartz at 16:15. Freshmen Skrivanek and Mohr also ran strong races at 16:36 and 16:38. Amidst some strong competition, the team showed amazing mental and physical toughness and demonstrated their preparation for their next challenge: the Southern Conference Championships, held in two weeks in Charleston, S.C.

SENIORS

This event may change your life! According to a recent US News article, “Careers you can count on,” speech-language pathology was listed third in terms of future job opportunities. It is the eleventh fastest growing profession in America. Speech-Language Pathologists provide services to children and adults with a variety of communication handicaps and work in various employment settings (private practice, hospitals, rehabilitation centers, public schools, etc.). Starting salaries are in the upper 30's. On Monday, November 4th at 10 a.m., the Department of Communication Sciences & Disorders at The University of South Carolina is sponsoring a Recruitment Day in Columbia, for college students who would like to learn more about its master’s degree program and this exciting profession. This is an excellent opportunity to meet the faculty and interact with current graduate students who have made this career choice (over half of whom do not have undergraduate degrees in speech pathology). A free lunch is provided. Because space is limited, please contact Ms. Teresa Boyett (777-3080) by October 28th to reserve your seat for this important event.