McKillop gets 200th win; men’s hoops hold on

By Burcin Harbin
Staff Writer

In what head coach Bob McKillop termed a “heavyweight bout,” Davidson and UNC-Greensboro sparred for the second time in two
weeks Tuesday night in Belk Arena. With a coaching milestone and the outright North Division lead on the line, the
Wildcats beat the Spartans 53-48, earning a two-game division lead and giving McKillop his 200th career victory.

“This was a heavyweight bout,” said McKillop. “We didn’t put anybody on the floor, we didn’t have anybody on the
ropes. Greensboro kept fighting back and nobody backed down. But I’m thrilled with the victory. Our guys showed tremendous resilience
and physical courage.”

In what has become a hallmark of this rivalry, a double-digit lead meant nothing Tuesday night. Up 28-17 at halftime
after a slow start offensively, the Wildcats saw that 11-point lead whittled away by the middle of the second half.

“We were up eleven at the half and I wasn’t relaxed at all,” said junior forward Chris Pearson, who led
the team with 19 points and 12 rebounds. “I knew it was going to be a tight game.”

An 11-point halftime margin was the best of all evils for both teams. Davidson shot only 30 percent from the
field in the first half and was lucky to command an 11-point lead. Meanwhile, Greensboro, its three leading scorers shut
out in the first half, was grateful for a deficit of only 11.

“We knew we had to get Jay [Joseph], Ronnie [Taylor], and James [Maye] into the game in the second half,”
said Spartan head coach Fran McCaffery. “We were lucky to be down by 11 at the half when our three
big scorers weren’t producing.”

During that span, Greensboro’s Jay Joseph drained three three-pointers to push the Spartans ahead for the first time, 43-40, with
five minutes left. A Greensboro comeback was on.

“A big part of that run was them mixing things up defensively, which messed with our offensive rhythm,” said Pearson.
“But we practice against a lot of different defenses and so we were prepared and able to maintain our composure.”

Again, the Wildcat defense responded, stifling the Spartans in the paint on crucial back-to-back possessions in the closing minutes.

“This was a terrific defensive performance,” said McKillop, who carried in his pocket a tiny clipping from the Dallas Morning
News that read, “Defense wins championships—still.”

As Wayne Bernard sealed the victory in the final minute with three free throws, the Belk Arena crowd ignited and
the rowdy student section became awash in paper flyers proclaiming simply, “200.”

“I’m very fortunate to have been here so long and to have had the Davidson community support me the way
it has,” said McKillop in humble response to his milestone. “I am truly grateful.”

Fans, formula win over ASU

By Matt Garfield
Staff Writer

BOONE—Dominate early, fall apart midway through, and recover just in time. That’s the pattern that nearly every Davidson conference basketball
game has followed this year. Fortunately for the Wildcats, the result has almost always been a victory.

It was no different on Saturday afternoon against Appalachian State, as Davidson’s 21-point second half lead dwindled to five before
the Wildcats delivered late to secure an 82-72 win at Jones Arena. Roughly 300 Davidson students and fans were among
the crowd of 3,949, many of them riding on charter buses sponsored by the SGA.

“The students this year have been the best since '95-96, when we won 25 games,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop
after the game. “Our students have been loyal, devoted, loud. I thought [they] were great.”

Once again, the contest appeared to be over early. Wayne Bernard’s three-pointer with five minutes left in the first half
capped a 16-0 run that gave the Wildcats a 36-18 lead. But the Mountaineers, lifeless for much of the first
half...Half, found a spark when guard Graham Bunn nailed a 30-foot three-pointer as the shot clock expired, igniting a six-point
spurt that cut the lead to 40-28 at the half. That momentum didn’t carry over into the second half, though,
as Michael Bree’s lay-up at the 11:22 mark increased Davidson’s lead to 60. But Appalachian State again found a spark,
this time with some help from the Davidson bench. The Wildcats were up 60-43 with 10:15 left, when assistant coach
Jason Zimmerman was whistled for a technical foul for disputing an earlier no-call on what appeared to be a foul
on center Martin Ides. He and McKillop continued to argue with the official, bringing the crowd to its feet howling
for an ejection and the Mountaineers back to life. Five minutes later, the double-digit lead had shrunk to 64-59 on
Shawn Hall’s back-to-back three-pointers. Just as they have all season, the Wildcats were at their best when the game was
slipping away. Wayne Bernard responded to Hall’s barrage with a three-pointer of his own at the 4:30 mark. Two minutes
later, Michael Bree hit another three with the shot clock winding down to push the lead to 73-63 and turn
back ASU’s final rally. After sitting out two practices to rest an ankle he sprained at UNC Greensboro, Ides finished
with 15 points, 12 rebounds, and six assists. Wayne Bernard and Nick Booker each added 13 points, while Chris Pearson
had 10, giving the Wildcats a 34-16 points-in-the-paint advantage. Bree, bothered by tendonitis in his right knee, managed only eight
points on 2-of-11 shooting and five free throws, along with five assists and no turnovers. “I thought our defense was
superb,” said McKillop. “We dodged a couple of bullets [and] weathered a tough day for Michael Bree. [He] did not
have a good shooting day, but he had a superb floor game.”

Defense shuts down Wofford
By Burcin HARDIN
Staff Writer

A revived Wildcat squad came alive in the second half last Wednesday night and pulled away from the Wofford Terriers
for a 72-61 victory in Belk Arena. After struggling to shoot just 33 percent from the field in the first
20 minutes, a more intense and methodical Davidson team outscored Wofford 45-20 in the second half. “We became more focused
at halftime,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “We did things a lot easier in the second half. A lot of
the first half, we were going for home runs.” Despite their troubles, the Wildcats remained competitive in the first period—they
trailed by only four at intermission—thanks in large part to the return of Martin Ides, who scored four points and
grabbed seven rebounds, and the play of Chris Pearson. “Martin was a huge presence in the paint tonight,” said McKillop.
“And Chris is going to give everything he has. He always does.” Pearson, who finished with 19 points on the
night, scored 11 of those in the first half. The lanky Englishman also led the team with 11 boards, giving
him his third double-double of the year. But it was Michael Bree, who led the team with 22 points, and
the Wildcat defense that made the difference in the last 20 minutes. Bree’s two three-pointers early in the second half
fueled Davidson’s comeback, while his 7-for-8 performance from the line in the waning minutes solidified the victory. “Michael Bree was
superb in legislating the tempo of this game, which is an especially tough thing to do in our system,” said
McKillop. “We were tense, overanxious in the first half,” said Bree. “In the second half, we adjusted and relaxed.” One
of the most important adjustments the Wildcats made was in defending Wofford’s Lee Nixon, who made the first half his
own personal showcase, scoring 20 points in 19 minutes of action. The Wildcats knew they had to find a way
to shut down Nixon in order to be successful in the second half. In what McKillop called a “staple” of
this year’s program, Davidson’s defensive effort limited the Terriers to just 27 percent shooting from the field in the second
half. More importantly, the Wildcats held Nixon to just six points in the second half. Wofford was unable to generate
any significant offensive firepower once Davidson reigned in Nixon. “I was thrilled by the way we defended in the second
half,” said McKillop. “That’s a tribute to our entire team of defenders.”
