Leadership at Bavidesa: By Timothy Cook, Managing Editor

More than 1,200 people at Davidson are involved in Patterson Court. For outsiders, that’s a pretty impressive number considering the entire student body is less than 1,700. Like the Student Government Association (SGA), the governing body over this huge expanse of fun-loving, sometimes crazy, and often drunk partiers has a lot of responsibility and hopefully a lot of insight into where the school is heading.

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) is a group of peers elected from each of the houses on the Court, including all seven national fraternity chapters, the four female eating houses, and CoHo. The council meets on Monday nights and consists of one delegate per house and each house president, plus the executive council to which any member of the Court is eligible to be elected.

This article focuses on the last administration of PCC, led by President Mathew Arbuckle ’02 (SAE). Though during his term the Court has had several controversial incidents, Arbuckle is confident that the progress in this last year will overshadow the bad. “I can say that the Court is better now than when I was a freshman,” he said.

Those incidents were highlighted first by the Phi Delta Theta “book drop” last spring in which a rather angry Scott Denham of the German department sent an e-mail around campus condemning both the actions of the fraternity and also the Court as well. But the issue was resolved and Denham, the faculty advisor of the co-ed eating house CoHo, and the Court were once again on speaking terms.

The second incident that threatened to mar the Court’s image came last October during SAE’s “Tacky Party,” when a student filed a complaint claiming to be heckled and assaulted by beer cans thrown from the balcony. The report also alleged that slurs were shouted at the student and his friend. But during a miscommunication between all parties involved, including The Davidsonian, the nature of the “crime” was blown out of proportion and after a hearing by the Judiciary Council, SAE was acquitted on two counts but convicted of a third.

But the hearing did raise serious issues about whether the Court was really an accepting place after all. Membership is open to anyone on campus through Davidson’s policy of self-selection, and parties too are open to anyone who has a valid PCC sticker. To help clear up the issue, SAE held a forum on homosexual awareness in late November, and soon many really felt that the Court was a welcoming area again.

Coupled with these incidents came the addition of a new PCC Advisor in Grahaeme Hesp, hired last summer to replace Craig Rinker. “By the time we had a group grip on what was going on last semester, we had to shift things around to bring Grahaeme up to speed,” said Arbuckle.Arbuckle. But Arbuckle has seen a real change in the feel of the Court over the past few years. He believes much of the change stems from the actions of leaders among the organizations. “One of the main things right now is that leadership in the houses are conveying the rules and getting people to start partying responsibly,” he said. And though some of the traditions have changed (like partying irresponsibly), the willingness of the Court to cede some of them has helped build a good relationship with school administration. In particular, the infamous Self-Selection nude run event in which fraternity pledges sprint around the Court and into each eating house along the way was changed last year to the “wear as little as possible dash.” And though the change was met with resentment from upperclassmen who had exposed themselves as first-night pledges in years past, Arbuckle thinks that it was time for a change. “It [the naked run] had a tendency to get very crude,” he said. 

Arbuckle also commented on the growing relationship between the Public Safety Office and the Court, saying, “The cops are very understanding.” This is a trend that Arbuckle is very proud of, as he was glad to say that houses aren’t getting into as much trouble as they used to. Other members of the Court also agreed with Arbuckle that the Court has steadily been building a stronger relationship with the school as seen through the various social forums hosted by College President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley. Former Pi Kappa Alpha President Michael Clifton ’02 said, “I feel the administration has worked hard to dispel the myth that they are anti-Court, and in my opinion, they have succeeded.” Former PCC Sergeant at Arms Mary Kat White ’02 (CON) said, “The houses are reaching out to faculty members; KA, Warner, and PiKA hosted a Christmas party last semester, for example.” 

But Arbuckle, Clifton, and others still see other things that can be improved. For some, that big issue is the Outpost. Since the closing of the late-night Court snack house at the end of last year, many students have felt that the Union Cafe in the new Knobloch Campus Center just isn’t up to par. “The Outpost was probably the most popular house on the Court, and I haven’t seen the new Union Café fill the void successfully,” said Clifton. “I would love to see it reopen.” But in the campaign to reopen the Outpost, Court members might have to make a choice. According to Vagt and others at the last social forum, one of the uses for the old Outpost might be as a temporary home for displaced fraternities and eating houses during house renovations that could happen within the next year. Will houses going under construction choose the Outpost over a place to call their own? “I don’t know how to answer that question. Not having a house can cripple an organization, but I’d like to see the Outpost back,” said Arbuckle. 

Regardless of the mishaps and questions regarding openness, Patterson Court is undoubtedly still flourishing. In a survey sent out to incoming freshmen last year, only 18 percent said that they were considering a fraternity. This year, 33 percent of the class of 2005 is involved in the Court, according to Arbuckle. At a college known for its indulgence in scholarship and an infatuation with the library, he says the Court offers students a release with friendship, fellowship, and lots and lots of beer. Thanks to Matt Arbuckle for all of his good service for the Court. Good luck in all you do.