DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2002

‘Balancing Act’ A year after 9/11, College prepares to remember

By Caroline K. Hauser News Editor

The calendar says a year has gone by. The emotions do not. What began as a brilliant late summer morning in Davidson quickly became a day that no one can forget. As the first anniversary of Sept. 11 nears, Davidson hopes to recreate the unity of last year’s response.

Early in the summer, President Bobby Vagt contacted chaplain Rob Spach to initiate planning for commemorative activities. The committee subsequently formed consists of Spach; Dr. Neil Lerner, music department professor; Dr. Christopher Alexander, Director of the Dean Rusk International Studies Program; Tim Beach-Verhey, Director of the Program for the Theological Exploration of Vocation; Nidhi Paul ’03, DIA president; Gray Patterson ’03, SGA president; and Kate Fiedler ’03, Union Board president.

Paul, an Indian student who was cursed at by a stranger in Charlotte the day after last year’s terrorist attacks, is sensitive to the effect of commemorative events on international students. While no specific instances of discrimination were reported at Davidson, Paul cites a “blanket disregard” for other countries. “Some people get so wrapped up in the American perspective, they fail to see the rest of the world has been affected,” she said.

As the anniversary approaches, though, Paul says she feels “very reassured” about the school’s attention to inclusiveness and understanding. Current plans for September 11 begin with a campus meeting at 8:46 am, the moment when American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center. Paul explained that the morning gathering will be a time to honor America, while events later in the day will recognize the widening circle of worldwide involvement and consequence.

From a more domestic standpoint, Patterson expressed reservations about the lack of patriotic emphasis in the initial plans. “I understand,” he said, “that not only Americans were killed. But only America was attacked.” In what Patterson termed “an extremely hard balancing act,” however, a “good compromise” was reached. “It’s foolish not to recognize these emotions [of patriotism],” said Patterson, “and it’s important to direct the emotions to a sense of greater community and unity.”

At last week’s SGA meeting, Patterson’s suggestion to purchase and distribute 1000 small American flags was abandoned when discomfort among international students was raised. Senior senator Graham Watson ’03 said, “If any student feels alienated, the cost outweighs the benefits.” SGA members also mentioned the possibility of flags being improperly discarded.

Continuing with the theme of inclusion, an interfaith prayer vigil will take place at 5:15 p.m. A variety of religious traditions will be observed. Planners expect those to include Judaism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Native American beliefs, and both Protestant and Catholic Christianity. To the degree possible, a flag from every country represented in the student body will fly in the amphitheater during the gathering.

Freshmen students gather for the traditional Orientation picture on Chambers lawn. For a recap of Orientation weekend, see page 4.Sept. 13, 2001, for a semester in Spain understands the need to accommodate as many. See Anniversary, page 2.

Campus gets summer facelift, music building opens
By Jason Hut
Staff Writer

Students returning to Davidson this fall have probably noticed considerable changes in the structures of the school. Along with the recently completed renovation of the Grey College Union and Knobloch Campus Center, Chambers building is in the midst of a major facelift. The Sloan Music Center building, formerly known as Grey, is not, however, the building’s first reincarnation. It opened in 1941 as the student union. In 1975, the building was reconfigured into a library, and now it is a music center. The new center contains the 200-seat Tyler-Tallman Recital Hall, new offices, practice rooms, and a high-tech classroom that can double as a practice area for musical ensembles.

Concurrent with the completion of the Sloan Center was the start of renovations on Chambers. Construction work on Chambers’ east wing began this summer. When completed, the space will house six classrooms and 28 offices. The five-stage, $21 million process is the first renovation since a $750,000 touch-up in 1969. The phased completion of the project minimizes the impact on Davidson’s academic program. While the renovation of one part of the building takes place, professors still teach and hold office hours in the other sections. The ongoing first phase will transform Love Auditorium into two floors of six state-of-the-art classrooms and 28 offices. The classrooms will be equipped with computers for professors, overhead projectors, DVD equipment, descending projection screens, and digital document cameras.

Director of Physical Plant David Holthouser explains some of the summer’s activity, “It was three months of demolition, noisy demolition.” Builders removed the ceilings and inner walls of the auditorium, and the large, bricked-over windows have been opened. The construction is on schedule, on budget, and largely incident-free, save for a ladder slip during demolition resulting in a broken ankle. Holthouser reports that though there have been some complaints about the construction noise during class, “people have been really cooperative, and excited about the long-term benefits of the project.” No classes are displaced this academic year. However, in the fall of 2003, construction on the north wing will close more classrooms than construction will have created in the new east wing. Due to the difference, some classes will meet in Cunningham Hall, Oak Hall, and Elm Row. The versatility of these spaces facilitates such changes.

Although the completion of Sloan and the progress on Chambers this summer are significant, the Operations staff took on many other tasks as well. Holthouser explains that the Chambers construction seemed “minor, in some ways, when compared with everything else that was going on.” In addition to the standard maintenance of the campus, the Operations staff undertook several other projects.

See Construction, page 2.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-4
Schedule of Sept. 11 events, page 2
Arts & Living 5-6
What to do around Davidson, page 6
Perspectives 7-8
Columnists weigh in on hot issues like Iraq and UNC reading debate, page 8