The women’s basketball team was picked to finish sixth in the Southern Conference entering this season. After last year’s 6-12 conference record, that prediction doesn’t seem unreasonable. Head coach Annette Watts and the nine players returning from last year’s squad, however, aren’t buying into the rankings. Watts feels the forecast is just a little off. She has her reasons. “I think when you return so many players that have been in the wars, you should be able to compete and be at the top,” she says. The experience of those returning players will be one of three keys to success this season. Here’s a look at the keys to the Lady Wildcats’ season.

Veteran Leadership: “The key to our success this season is centered around the leadership of the five juniors and one senior and their ability to be consistent, solid leaders,” Watts explains. She’s referring to co-captain Bethany Schott, Davidson’s top returning scorer, who will be counted on every night to do more than put the ball in the basket. “To be successful in this league, I need a go-to player as a leader, and I have one in Bethany Schott,” said Watts. “She’s going to get a double-double most nights.” Another source of leadership will come from someone who is unable to put up big numbers, or any numbers at all: senior Leah Uhernik, who suffered a career-ending knee injury. “Although Leah can’t play, she gives us even more drive to perform well through her wisdom and courage,” said junior Courtney Laird. Laird cites this strong leadership, coupled with the encouragement of the coaches, as the reason “everyone on the team believes in one another. I think that is basically the strongest element that will help us succeed.”

Team Defense: The Wildcats’ focus on team defense embodies their very philosophy: work together as a united front without focus on individual play. Unite behind the team, not a single player. “We play team defense,” Watts says. “Each player must be defensively solid every night.” Schott calls “entire team effort” essential for victory, saying, “Every single person on the roster is key to our success.” Strong defense, Watts hopes, will spark the offense.

WOMEN TOP 49ERS

For the second consecutive year, the Davidson women’s basketball team knocked off Charlotte, this time by a score of 81-76 on Tuesday night in Belk Arena. The win is Davidson’s second in a row and pushes the Wildcats’ record to 2-3 while the 49ers fall to an even 3-3. “We had a great team effort on defense and a good shooting night on offense,” said Davidson head coach Annette Watts. Senior forward Bethany Schott finished with a game-high 23 points on 7-for-7 shooting while point guard Ashley Hallsted had 21 points and five assists. The Wildcats slowly built their lead up in the second half and eventually extended it to 13 on a Courtney Laird free throw to make it 62-49 with 9:34 left. Charlotte never seriously challenged the rest of the way, giving the Wildcats a victory in their home opener. — Sports Information

Guard/Forward Robyn Flewelling: “Offensively, we’re in the middle of the pack, but defensively, we’re at the top,” she says. “We need to focus on defense every day. Defense wins ball games, and the offense can always catch up.” Making stops on the defensive side of the court will fuel Watts’ offensive strategy, which looks to push the ball in transition and stresses an “anyone open, anyone shoot” philosophy. “Anyone we put on the floor has the green light to shoot,” the coach says.

Schedule Strength: The Wildcats “play one of the toughest non-conference schedules,” Watts says, “and that will pay off.” Davidson must use its strength of schedule as an opportunity to improve and gain experience against tough competition, while not allowing tough opponents to discourage them. So far this season, the ‘Cats have managed to do just that. “We were 1-3 in our first four games, but we’ve had only one sub-par game,” Watts explains. “The coaching staff doesn’t gauge success totally by wins. We played two very good games, and even though we lost, we played well.”continue to play well against strong non-conference opponents, the Wildcats can look to finish higher than sixth place against their conference foes. “We should finish among the top three teams in the league,” Watts predicts. “You’ve got to set yourself up for the tournament. You need to be in the top three or four, and then it’s whoever can play the best when it counts. We’re looking for that to be the Wildcats.”

Students, Faculty, and Staff: Welcome back to Belk Arena for the 2002-2003 basketball season! Here are some frequently asked questions about Davidson basketball games.

Question: Can students still get in to all the home basketball games free?
Answer: Yes. Students may gain admission to all Davidson games on campus via their ID card.

Question: Does this policy also allow Faculty and Staff to bring their families?
Answer: Yes. Faculty and Staff may gain admission for themselves plus one guest with their ID card. For larger families, it is advisable that the spouse and children 14 years and older apply for their own cards.

Question: Is the seating the same for both men’s and women’s games?
Answer: No. The women’s games feature general admission seating while reserved seats are required for students, faculty, and staff at the men’s games. For the women’s games, enter the arena via your ID card, pick the best seat available, and enjoy the ball game. Physical tickets are required for men’s games and may be picked up at the Arena entrance on game nights. To ensure a better seat location, it is suggested that you pick up tickets early. Tickets will be available one day ahead of every game at the Ticket Office beginning at 8:30 AM. To increase efficiency, men’s games are grouped together and available for pick up at one time. For instance, tickets for the games against James Madison, Charlotte, and St. Bonaventure may be picked up beginning on Wednesday.

Question: Can we get tickets to the Davidson-North Carolina game in Chapel Hill on January 8th?
Answer: Yes. Tickets are available now at the Ticket Office. The price is $20 and Cat Cards may be used. Students have been allotted a block of 80 tickets that will be held for students until December 15th. Faculty and staff are also invited to buy seats to the game. Tickets will be sold on a first-come, first-served basis.

Question: What about parking? Do those rules affect me?
Answer: Yes. The parking rules apply only to men’s basketball games. Cars without a Season Ticket Basketball Parking Pass must be moved from Parking Bays 1 and 2 in the Baker Sports Complex Parking Lot on game days at least two hours prior to tip-off. Parking warning signs will go up the day before each game in Bays 1 and 2 to remind all drivers that those spaces must be cleared the next day for Basketball Parking Pass holders. Since Bays 1 & 2 must be cleared by 5 PM before 7 PM games, faculty and staff leaving work by 5 PM are unaffected. Parking Bay 3 (the closest to Concord Road) is the best place to park for students that tend to leave their cars in the Baker Lot for extended periods. Parking Bay 3 remains an open lot on game days until the game parking crew goes to work and cars already parked there are unaffected by the rules. Students who use Bays 1 and 2 on normal days have two choices on game days:
a. Remove your car from the Baker Lot to student parking elsewhere on campus.
b. Move your car two hours before game time to Parking Bay 3, the parking bay closest to Concord Road.

There will be men’s basketball three games over the next week: James Madison on Thursday night, UNC Charlotte on Saturday, and St. Bonaventure next Tuesday. Cooperation from all parties is needed to produce a safe and efficient game day environment.

Question: I saw some students wearing bright red T-Shirts marked Cat Pack. What is the Cat Pack?
Answer: The Cat Pack is a student support group for men’s and women’s basketball in which members receive a T-Shirt, a membership card good for discounts at the Brick House Tavern, and guaranteed seating in the Cat Pack section during men’s basketball games. Memberships are $5 and are still available using your Cat Card. You may join at the Ticket Office when picking up tickets this week for the upcoming men’s basketball games.