Box Office Catches Some Unaware

By Mallory MacDonald
Staff Writer

162,720 minutes, 162,720 moments of time... until Broadway comes to Main Street, Davidson. If you have not heard already, the traveling production “Rent” is coming to Davidson on Wednesday, Jan. 22 and Thursday, Jan. 23, 2003. Tickets have been on sale for almost a month and already they are disappearing rapidly, but some students are hesitant to hit the box office because they feel that they have been cheated. The once $25 tickets have jumped to $45, and students and faculty are wondering, “Why?”

“Rent” is part of the New Heights Artist Series—“eight highly-acclaimed performances that promise to take the arts at Davidson to new places,” according to the Concert Series brochure. “We are lucky to be able to bring a musical like ‘Rent’ to the Davidson campus,” says director of the ticket office LeeAnn Bannerman. The non-equity performance, a performance by real Broadway members that may or may not have been part of the Broadway edition of “Rent” that travel nationally as a company, has only 275 tickets left and each day that number decreases. For the past month, tickets have only been available to Davidson faculty, staff, and students, but in two weeks the ticket office will be open to the public. The anticipation is that the two shows will be completely sold out in a matter of days.

The confusion amongst the students and faculty is simply a misunderstanding. The standing price for a ticket right now is $45. The once $25 fee was a temporary offer intended to encourage students and faculty to purchase their tickets early. Posters and announcements should have relayed that there were a limited number of $25 tickets and that they would only be on sale until fall break or until they sold out. Many students, including Christina Evans ’06, thought that the offer lasted until fall break regardless. That is not the case and the ticket price remains constant at $45. Joy Gerdy, an assistant in the ticket office, said, “Unfortunately, we cannot afford to offer $25 tickets to everyone because our budget is simply not large enough.”

The C. Shaw Smith and Nancy K. Smith fund is responsible for this eight-show series and the attendance of all seven shows is what allows the presentation of a show so highly esteemed as “Rent.” Bannerman said, “Davidson has always put a lot of emphasis on the arts and this series is meant to draw on various aspects of the performing arts and cater to the many interests and penchants of the Davidson community.” This year’s golden ticket promises to sell out soon, so students are encouraged to buy theirs as soon as possible. For more information, contact the ticket office at (704) 894-2135.

By Kathryn Wyle
Staff Writer

“Hi, honey! What did you learn at school today?”
“Nothing special... just how to put a condom on a banana, the merits and drawbacks of the legal drinking age, you know.”

Where have first-year students been going to obtain such life skills as BAC calculation and condom application? Davidson 101, of course, formerly known, for all of you clueless (or careless) upperclassmen, as PE 101. School attitudes toward underage drinking are always in question: should the college tacitly condone the illegal imbibing in an effort to promote safe(r) drinking habits, or crack down and enforce the law? Georgia Ringle, Davidson’s resident health educator, avers that her main concern is student health, and in that, she wants to make sure that everyone has the same basic information with which to make his or her decision. In the past, Ringle worried because she “[didn’t] know that everyone had been given the same basic message.” Also, between her many Sexuality classes and the oldFormat of Drug and Alcohol classes, Ringle was teaching 30 two-hour sessions per semester on top of her other responsibilities. In the new format, Ringle leads four huge sections of Drugs and Alcohol in the 900 Room and all first-year students must take the new online course, Alcohol Edu, on their own time. Rather than just inundate the frosh with statistics, the new 900 Room sections consist of several elements. The talk begins when volunteers from the local chapter of Narcotics Anonymous share their stories and give a brief background of the organization. Representatives from Davidson’s own First Responders also distribute information, as well as passing nifty magnets for all of those microfridges back home. Davidson EMTs discuss the situations which they frequently face. Once all of the various support and safety groups have had their say, Ringle does throw out a few numbers in the form of a new PowerPoint presentation, but she involves the audience by asking a few questions concerning alcohol and drug policy and asking students to defend their positions in front of the group. “I think that most of my students are responsible drinkers,” she says, but, as any Saturday or Sunday morning demonstrates, not everyone knows when to stop.

Alcohol Edu, the new online education program, seeks to make sure that each student receives up-to-date and comprehensive instruction on the effects of alcohol on everything from the brain to sex life. Between video segments, the program inserts interactive simulations such as a blood alcohol calculator and role-playing games. However, as Sims Hill ’06 pointed out, the program is not without its glitches. In one experiment she discovered that “If I drink no alcohol over the course of one hour it will take two hours for my BAC to return to normal.” Other students report that they didn’t actually pay attention to the videos. One first-year student admitted, “I wasn’t even in the room while it was running and I got an 85% on the test.” Another recounted, “It seemed like it spent a lot of time talking about how not everyone drinks but then went on and assumed that I do.” Others found the information and role-playing scenarios exaggerated and slightly biased. Still, Ringle hopes to use anonymous survey data from Alcohol Edu to further improve her part of the Davidson 101 experience. At least one person is taking advantage of the program!

Mon-Fri. 9:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m.
Saturday 9:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.
Sunday 1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.

Food Lion Family Cuts Introducing... FAMILY CUTS Hair Salon (Under New Management) 704-896-8440 Haircuts - Color - Styling - Perms - Waxing No Appointment Necessary (Recommended for color and perms) Open 7 Days a Week 20121 #C North Main St. Cornelius Cornelius Town Center Exit 28 (115 and Catawba Ave.) Located near the Food Lion Town Hall Hwy 115 Exit 28 Catawba Ave Stylists: Kim, Ashley, Dana Retail and Skin care Products available 10% off all services to Davidson Students

$2.00 OFF HAIRCUT
expires 09/30/02

$5.00 OFF PERM OR COLOR
expires 09/30/02

20% OFF RETAIL PRODUCTS
expires 09/30/02

Celebrate Music!!! Davidson students, faculty and staff are invited to attend the dedication of the Perry A. and Lillie Duke Clements-Sloan Music Center. The festivities will take place on Thursday, October 10 at 5:00 pm on the lawn between Sloan and Martin. The voices of the Delilahs and the Generals will welcome you (starting at 4:45 pm) with a ribbon-cutting ceremony to follow at 5:00 pm. Self-guided tours of the building will round out the afternoon. Take a study break and join the celebration!