The media’s sniper coverage: are you a victim? In just over 13 gunshots, ten people are dead, and three remain
critically wounded in the Washington and Northern Virginia area sniper attacks. It is sickening to watch the ever-increasing victim tally
unfold on television. And yet as police continue their frantic manhunt of the elusive “suburban sniper,” the media and the
public are becoming more and more obsessed with what has become a new sort of reality TV. Television ratings are
approaching post-Sept. 11 levels as the sniper continues to pick off innocent people in the Washington suburbs. Sure, this is
a huge story for the media, but how does it reflect on the general interest of the American public? The
media has almost idealized the sniper’s actions by describing his work as an attempt to single-handedly destroy those of us
in the midst of our “mundane” tasks of everyday life, such as pumping gas, or cleaning our cars.

I find myself checking the news for updates on the sniper in the same way I might look up sports
scores or standings. It’s as if the media has constructed a game of “good guys vs. bad guys,” but one
in which it is almost unclear as to what side the public should take. Why root for the massive hordes
of scrambling police, when you can side with a mysterious, faceless underdog with a chillingly god-like image of himself? So
as the media continues to provide us with glamour shots of the chief policemen and their armies of SWAT team
agents roaming around, the spectacle will continue. It’s unfortunate that the media doesn’t have a real image of the “bad
guy” to juxtapose with the heroic cops (although the picture of that menacing white van has been turned into a
permanent symbol of evil). One has to wonder, does the media really want the sniper to be caught? What’s the
harm in stretching this surge of public attention a few weeks longer, or even months? Ratings will continue to rise,
and the ordinarily dull news will continue to be a source of a sort of fascination for viewers across the
country. I in no way mean any disrespect to the victims or their families of these attacks by raising these
questions and images. To be sure, I’m only commenting on what I see as a frightening reality of the interplay
between the media and the public.

Does the media really want the sniper to be caught? What's the harm in stretching this surge of public attention
a few weeks longer? I’m not advocating any of these trends, but rather pointing them out so that we might
realize our own backwards motives for paying massive amounts of attention to the deadly work of a sniper who thrives
on public interest and discord. We need to make sure that we do not allow the media to turn our
minds away from the reality of innocent death. The American way of life is what the sniper is attacking. By
yielding to the subtle irony of the media’s reports explaining how our “mundane” routines of everyday life are being destroyed,
we are accepting the sniper’s message, and allowing him to triumph.

Bush and the United Nations: who’s on top? The UN is Indispensable President Bush and many other prominent Republicans have
recently intimated that the United Nations is “irrelevant.” This rhetoric has trickled down to the American people. One neo-conservative at
Davidson prefaced a question to me with “So liberals like the UN, right...?”, thereby implying that every right-thinking person should
agree with the President. Neither the President nor his followers seem to have a very good understanding of what the
UN is. Far from being irrelevant, the UN touches our lives every single day. The rules and regulations governing air
travel — for instance, the mandate that every pilot speak English — were instituted by the UN. The World Health
Organization, a UN branch, eliminated smallpox and is leading the battle against AIDS. The UN protects and provides for over
2.5 million refugees around the world. Though it is not a peacekeeping organization, the UN has won eight Nobel Peace
Prizes in the 57 years since its inception. And it is this issue — peace and security — that draws
the most criticism. Not all of it is unwarranted, for there have indeed been some terrible failures. However, what the
detractors don’t realize is that the UN has its arms tied when it comes to enforcing peace. “Peacekeeping” is not
in the UN Charter. The UN has neither a standing army nor any weapons. It doesn’t even have a mandate
for intervention, for there is no accepted theory of peacekeeping. In effect, the UN is not allowed to build a
fire station but is expected to douse fires whenever they ignite.

The US is not popular in the UN, and most of that is its own doing. A joke in UN
circles goes like this: Kofi Annan is walking on the beach and stumbles across a magic lamp. Out comes a
genie that grants him a single wish. The Secretary-General asks for peace in the Middle East. The genie replies, “That’s
impossible! Look at the madness in Israel and Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan. No, make another wish.” Annan thinks a bit and
then asks the genie to persuade America to pay its dues. The genie ponders this and says, “On second thought,
let’s have another look at that map of the Middle East.” Despite his public utterances, recent events indicate that Bush’s
“irrelevance” rhetoric is just bluster. Congress recently voted to pay America’s dues to the UN. Then, when Bush addressed the
UN on 9/12, he announced that America is re-joining the UN’s Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization after a 20-year hiatus.
The White House has finally understood that the umbilical cord between illiteracy, poverty and terrorism must be broken, and thatUNESCO
needs all the support it can get as it works towards this goal. These are hardly the actions of a
president that considers the UN irrelevant. Bush has belatedly realized that the UN is, in fact, indispensable. Now he needs
to convey that message to the American people.

Beware the Green Monster: Save Sundays

Sunday. Even now the word evokes some of the fondest memories of my childhood. Wake up. Eat a home-cooked breakfast
before Sunday School. If I was feeling attentive, I might even learn a little something about Jesus. After church, we’d
go spend the afternoon at my grandparents’ house. There was always hot food on Grandma’s table, and sports on TV.
Regardless of the sporting events—Granddaddy was partial to NASCAR in the summer—you could always learn some new vocabulary words on
Sunday. Of course, after lunch, I’d have to go home and catch up on all the homework I didn’t do
over the weekend. I guess some things never change. In short: Sunday was fun, laid-back, and relaxing. It was even
a bit magical.

The fact is that I still view Sunday afternoon as a time of rest. It’s a habitual thing. Granted, I
can’t ever motivate myself to get up in time for church anymore, but I still like to waste away the
early afternoon watching the first set of NFL games. Maybe my childhood experience is clouding my judgment, but I cannot
understand why there is a petition in the Union actually asking the administration to open the library on Sunday morning.
Isn’t Davidson hard enough without asking for extra study hours? Opening up the library on Sunday morning is about the
same as opening Pandora’s box. I’m already under the impression that professors attempt to get us to spend all our
spare time in the Green Monster anyway. Give them another few hours of time on Sunday morning, and they’ll take
advantage. I have no proof of this. Just trust me. Asking for more library time is like asking for more
work. And asking for more work is like asking for a root canal. It’s just not done.

Personally, I try to spend as little time in the library as possible. The stairs are something out of the
Brady Bunch, and the color scheme is vomit-inducing. Now that I think about it, the library may even be vomit-colored.
I wish I could get a copy of the report that claimed the colors in the library improve your study
habits. The thing was obviously written at a time when hallucinogens were still socially acceptable. It’s the only explanation I
can come up with.

I’m not here to tell you what to do with your Sunday afternoons. But I’m begging you all to do
something besides spend more time in the library. Sometimes working on Sunday morning is inevitable. Of course, this is usually
around finals time when the library is open all the time anyway. Funny how that works. Keeping the library closed
on Sunday mornings, whatever the reason, is like the administration’s way of saying, “Hey, take a little time off for
yourself. Do something you enjoy and stop taking everything so seriously.” Take advantage of it. God knows we need it.
And I promise your GPA won’t suffer too much.

Social Security has become a central issue in the midterm congressional campaigns, and the N.C. Senate race between Elizabeth Dole
and Erskine Bowles is no exception. It should be little surprise that the “third rail” of American politics has taken
a spotlight position given the attention President Bush and Al Gore gave it during their 2000 presidential race. However, the
Democrats since then have done little but make unfounded accusations that rich Republicans want to rob little old ladies of
their bread and butter.

Few people will deny that Social Security as it currently exists is in serious trouble. Current estimates are that it
will start losing money in a big way by 2015, and will be bled dry by 2037. Of course, the
Democrats wish to deal with this in the same way they have dealt with everything since the Roosevelt Presidency—by taxing
and spending. However, they have yet to tell us how this will provide anything more than a (very) short-term solution
to the problem. In fact, saying that Social Security can be permanently sustained by pumping in more and more tax
dollars is like saying that the Mississippi River can be redirected by shoveling dirt into it with a teaspoon—it’s theoretically
possible, but highly unlikely.

From a standpoint of arithmetic, the only truly viable option is to (at least partially) privatize the rapidly dying system.
The plan proposed by President Bush gives people the option—which can be turned down—to invest a paltry 2% of their
social security in private securities markets. This means that in the highly unlikely event that everybody who invests loses his
or her entire 2%, the rest of the original money will remain. Despite what Dick Gephardt would have us believe,
I seriously doubt that we will see swarms of senior citizens begging on street corners even if such poor investing
does occur. Given that over the past century, the stock market has grown far faster than the rate of inflation
(about 7% versus 3%, on average per annum), I would be surprised if over the long run the invested money
did so poorly as to break even.

The Bush plan is far from perfect. Personally, I would like a much larger percentage of the money to be
allowed for investment. Nevertheless, it is currently the best game in town. Elizabeth Dole has given her support to the
Bush Social Security plan; Erskine Bowles vehemently opposes it. I hope that the people of North Carolina recognize which candidate
will truly look out for their future if elected.
