A330 mi. Proposals and Rationale, “National Politics and Sept. 11: Partisanship, Civil Liberties, and National Responses.”

2 p.m.

Panel discussion — C. Shaw Smith 900 Room

- Brief lecture by Dr. Christopher Alexander, Director of the Dean Rusk International Studies Program and Associate Professor of Political Science, followed by a discussion

4 p.m.

5:15 p.m. — Inter-faith prayer vigil — Mariam Cannon Hayes Amphitheatre (rain location - Brown Atrium)

- Students and faculty from various religious traditions will offer prayers and reflections from their respective regions

Campus gathering - Alvarez College Union

- Keynote address by Dr. Elizabeth Kiss ’83, Associate Professor of the Practice of Political Science and Philosophy and Director of the Kenan Institute for Ethics at Duke University
- Open mic session for response
- Closing ceremony

9 p.m.

Canvas labyrinth — C. Shaw Smith 900 Room

- 36’x 36’ meditative path for walking, quiet reflection, and prayer available all day and night

Throughout the day, writing space will be provided in the Union for spontaneous expression.

Note: Davidson College Presbyterian Church, Davidson United Methodist, and St. Alban’s Episcopal will co-sponsor two identical services of worship at noon (at Saint Alban’s) and 7:30 p.m. (at DCPC).

The Soda Shop 1981
Breakfast
7 a.m. - 11:30 a.m.

Breakfast Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes

said. “With many different opportunities to respond during the day, we hope everyone can connect with at least one. Of course, each event will not be the right response for everyone and, in fact, may be the wrong one for some people.

“We’re all sensitive to the moment. Some people are just now coming to terms with the attacks and we’re all still trying to work through it.”

Though she was not in Davidson on Sept. 11, Fiedler’s position as Union Board president has been influenced by people’s stories of that day. She expects the Union to serve the campus on the anniversary of the attacks much as it did last year, simply by being “a space that’s open and allows for sharing—a place where people can come to talk or listen or cry.”

To accommodate spontaneous response, the Union will have large sheets of paper for those on campus to express their thoughts in words and art.

At 9 p.m., just as last year, the college community will gather in the Union for a time of reflection and remembrance. Vagt will make opening remarks before a keynote address by Dr. Elizabeth Kiss ’83, Director of the Kenan Institute for Ethics at Duke University and a Davidson trustee. After she speaks, Spach will lead an open mic session similar to last year’s, when students and faculty members offered their initial thoughts about and reactions to the attacks.

“Our hope is that the emphasis will be on ‘How have we responded to Sept. 11?’” said Spach, asking, “Are there things that we have done in response? Are there ways we’ve changed our lives? How are we investing ourselves in the community in light of these events?”

“Of course,” he added, “people can say whatever they want.”

Whatever the response, says Vagt, “When you’re in a healing process, one of the things you want to do is retrace your steps. We want to go back and feel that unity, but now we’re all seeing those events through the lens of what’s happened in the last year.”

On the night of the attacks, hundreds of people filled all four levels of the Union, sitting on the floor, hanging over railings, holding onto one another as they tried to make sense of what was happening.

In his comments then, Vagt urged unity and understanding. “We’re here tonight because of an emotional and spiritual need to be together,” he said. “Our hope is not only that we’re here, but here together.”

One year later, Vagt recalled the emotion of that night and said quietly, “It’s very important that we go back.”

Counseling Center
September 11 Hotline
(704) 742-1670

From Monday, Sept. 9 until Saturday, Sept. 14, the Counseling Center will have a cell phone hotline available 24 hours a day for students dealing specifically with issues relating to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

In addition to the usual on-call pager, students can call (704) 742-1670 to talk on the phone, set up an emergency face-to-face meeting if the counselor feels it is appropriate, and/or set up a regular Student Counseling Center appointment for follow-up.

Construction, from page 1.

the campus and the existing summer programs, Little and Richardson underwent renovations.

Additionally, utility workers removed a massive utility pipe system from 1930 and replaced and much of the central air conditioning and power line infrastructure was repaired.

8/24/2002

A student was transported to the hospital due to alcohol poisoning.

8/31/2002

A student was transported to the hospital due to alcohol poisoning.