Next up: Cornel West | Thursday, Duke Family Performance Hall, 7 p.m.

Lecture is just what our community needs

I was delighted when I heard that our school had found a way to bring Dr. Cornel West to Davidson. I have been to see Dr. West twice and have enjoyed his talks both times. West speaks like you wished your preacher, or maybe your professors, could. He is passionate, intelligent, and funny. A moment that I remember clearly was when Dr. West called upon the audience to start a dialogue about race in America. At that moment, an infant cried out in the audience, and West responded “Exactly!” without missing a beat. I left both speeches feeling satisfied, but at the same time, my personal views about race, sexual orientation, class issues, and the political system were all challenged.

Dr. West is not perfect. He is a human male, prone to make the mistakes that most do. But West takes a lot of criticism that I feel is unjustified. President Larry Summers of Harvard lashed out at West primarily because he wanted help at cracking down on grade inflation, not because West has failed as a scholar. West’s blend of skepticism of corporate power, critique of racial prejudice, and emphasis on the individual attitudes that allow misunderstandings to continue inject a unique perspective into the public sphere. "Race Matters," West’s 1993 book, is still considered an excellent work about race and its effects on America. West continues to discuss the importance of Christianity in American life, particularly with regards to its inability to act as a counterweight to materialism and market values. West has also shown himself to be an excellent public debater in forums about race and politics. Although West’s “spoken word” album may not be the pinnacle of scholarly research, considering the importance of hip-hop to African-American life and American culture as a whole, it should not serve to discredit him.

Dr. West’s main strength, however, comes from his ability to strike up a conversation and force a re-evaluation of race and other perceptions of “the other.” Davidson has many controversial speakers, but few with the star power or abilities of West. Questions about race continue to be crucial to arguments about American politics, be it the death penalty, affirmative action, public education, or balancing personal liberties with national security. Here at Davidson, the BSC and some others have attempted to start a discussion about race and culture and its role in social relations at the College. Dr. West’s speech may motivate all students, white and otherwise, to start talking openly and honestly to each other about their feelings on race. It’s a chance to break down barriers and find common ground. I believe this is just what the Davidson community needs.

Approach the talk with a dose of skepticism

By Aren Ashooh, Guest Columnist

It is clear that Dr. Cornel West is an accomplished individual. It is also clear that as a Harvard professor, he had quite a disagreement with the school’s president. Other than that, I never knew much about this man. I have learned a little about Dr. West after some very simple research. I have some preliminary opinions, but I do not want to craft them too rigidly before I hear him speak this Thursday evening.

Dr. West graduated in three years from Harvard, proving himself uniquely talented. And he has been a highly controversial figure. Supporters have called him “America’s leading black intellectual.” Critics have gone so far as to say that he “deploys his vocabulary as much as a 13-year-old girl deploys Kleenex in her training bra: to obscure the embarrassing fact that there’s not much there.” Dr. West is primarily a commentator on racial justice in America, but he has tackled more prickly issues such as the rift between blacks and Jews. He has also made civil disobedience a tool in his arsenal of protest against racial injustice, and he has been arrested for his beliefs. He has built up a reputation for himself as a distinguished academic, winning awards such as the James Madison Medal, the highest prize awarded to a Princeton University graduate alumnus. Clearly, whatever you think of his views, Dr. West is a respectable and formidable voice on the national political scene.

Dr. West left Harvard University last year over a flap with University president Lawrence Summers. One of the sticking points was Dr. West’s recent recording of the album "Sketches of My Culture." According to the promotional website for the album, it seeks to portray a “poignant yet inviting depiction of the African American experience.” I took the liberty of listening to some selections from Dr. West’s album, and I found some of the lyrics to be neither poignant nor inviting, and I can see why President Summers was so concerned. A song entitled “Stolen King” begins with “From the heights of rich African humanity, to the depth of sick American barbarity.” It continues with the claim that “No other people [American blacks] in the modern world have had such unprecedented levels of unregulated violence against them.” Deplorable as the plight of American blacks has been, does it measure up to the crimes of Hitler? Or Pol Pot? Or Stalin? Or apartheid? And even if it does, isn’t all injustice unacceptable? Why spend time trying to decide whose plight has been the worst, or whose victimhood is most lamentable?

It seems to me that “racial commentary” such as the above lyrics is rather extreme. I must confess that I am skeptical going into Dr. West’s speech, though I am anxious to hear his own words. I encourage everyone to listen and question. I can only hope that Dr. West offers more poignant and inviting commentary than I found in his album.

Bush needs to rethink sex ed. policies

The Bush administration has publicly stated its opposition to sexual...education programs that teach contraception and discuss anything other than abstinence. More recently, the administration has used more covert techniques to promote its agenda, such as making the Center for Disease Control remove a fact sheet from its website touting the effectiveness of condoms in preventing STDs. The President has appointed a number of staunch abstinence-only officials to posts in organizations such as the presidential panel on AIDS. Joe S. McIlhaney, a member of that panel, was asked if he believes whether people who aren’t monogamous should use condoms. His response: “That’s very simplistic, and has been proven, so far, not to be very effective.” Give me a break. Condoms, when used effectively, have been proven in numerous studies to be well over 90% effective at preventing both STDs and unwanted pregnancies. When condoms’ effectiveness drops, it is almost always due to either improper usage or an instance of a regular condom user not using protection on a single occasion. The facts show that when used properly and consistently, condoms work. Shouldn’t our sexual education programs try to teach people to use condoms effectively and make them readily accessible?

At least some people are bright enough to realize the obvious truths and provide funding for sexual education that promotes condoms as an effective means of preventing AIDS. Bill Gates, What's the Big Idea? with David Crow, recently gave $100 million to fight AIDS in India. This donation will help increase sexual education and distribute condoms to millions of Indian citizens. In response to this gift, Andrew Natsios, an administrator for the US Agency for International Development, has praised the effectiveness of sexual education and condoms in India by saying, “Annual condom distribution and social marketing activities probably avert a half-million [AIDS] infections every year.” A half-million people helped every year because of simply teaching people how to use a silly little piece of rubber. How easy could it be? How sad is it that India, a Third World country, is educating more help to its citizens than the United States? When will our president wake up from his mid-afternoon slumber and see that teaching abstinence only will never solve the problems of unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases? Let us hope that it is soon.

Before I begin this week’s diatribe, I would just like to make it clear that I am a huge Dave Matthews fan. I have most of his albums, and I freely admit that a lot of his songs sound the same. But, damn, that’s one good song he keeps recording. That said, I can’t help but find it a little ridiculous that we have to take a big photo to show Dave how much we want him to come play for us. I’m sorry, but I thought we offered him money to come here. My editor informed me that the going rate for Dave is around $150,000. Granted, he got that information from Internet message boards, but we’ll use that figure for the sake of argument. So, 150 grand and we still have to let big Dave know how much we care. At what point did shallowness and materialism disappear from society? When did a bucket load of cash stop being equated with love? Let’s face it—nothing says lovin’ like $150,000. Hell, I feel the love when a buddy lets me borrow a five spot. And have we even stopped to consider how else the school could spend that money?

When I first considered writing about this Dave thing, I balked. “I’m a Dave fan,” I thought. “The only way the money could be more wisely spent is if the school paid for a visit from this year’s Playmates.” We could spend half the money on booze and the other half on Playmate plane tickets—what a party. But then I started thinking of other things we could use the money for—apart from beer and girls.

Academic Scholarships: I know what you’re thinking. How can the Senior Source advocate anything that involves the word academic? Well, I am, so deal with it. Because if Davidson is really committed to becoming the premier liberal arts college in America, we have to stop spending money on frivolous concerts and use it to attract the brightest minds in the land. Then we can finally weed out the lazy kids who don’t do much except write mindless drivel for the school paper.

LeBron James: Some of you may not have heard this name before, but someday you will. He’s expected to be the top pick in the NBA draft this summer coming right out of high school. Instead of letting those professional vampires get their teeth in him, I propose that we offer LeBron a scholarship to play basketball here. Included in this offer is a brand new Escalade and a $50,000 per month stipend. This should effectively cover his “meal” plan.

Scientific Study on Mickelson Theory: If we aren’t willing to bend the rules and pay LeBron to suit up for basketball, can we at least use the money for something academic (there’s that word again)? I don’t really know how we could effectively set up an experiment to test the Mickelson Theory, but I’m sure it can be done. This could be the type of science that garners national attention.

Brick: Because Lord knows if Davidson needs more of anything, it is more brick. I remain firmly convinced that in the year 2050, when all the trees are wiped out by plague, the administration will commission some artist to put a bunch of brick trees on the lawn. I just hope I’m alive to see it.

So there you go Dave. Take our money or leave it. We obviously have more important things to spend it on anyway. And if $150,000 isn’t enough love then take your one song and shove... well I’m sure you know the rest.

“C’mon, it’s me or more bricks.”