From The Sideline: A Decade in the Making
By CAROLINE HAUSER, Sports Editor

At his recent induction into Davidson’s Athletic Hall of Fame, Dr. John Kuykendall was credited with the restart of women’s basketball. The what? Davidson began admitting female students in 1972; within a few years, a women’s basketball team was established. So, curious about the apparent breakdown in the program, I headed to the library archives—yes, we have them, they’re upstairs—to do a little investigating. I ended up skimming a 30-page paper by Eileen Dwyer '99 on the history of women’s athletics at Davidson.

Apparently, in the mid-1980s, women’s basketball was so bad, the athletic department couldn’t justify funding it. And we’re not talking this year’s Tar Heels-bad. During the 1985-86 season, the Wildcat women won a grand total of NO games. That’s unfortunate. According to Dwyer, the program was dropped the following year due to “overscheduling and lack of competitive talent.” Davidson athletics were also facing trouble, and, in 1984, the school lost its Southern Conference affiliation.

But in 1991, girl power triumphed again. Sort of. Dwyer quotes former head coach John Filar, “Women’s basketball was brought back to Davidson because the administration wanted the athletic department into the Southern Conference, and in order to do that, a school has to bring certain women’s sports with them to receive membership, and one of those sports is basketball.” Thank goodness.

Ten years later, the modern women’s basketball program is flourishing. Averaging just 2.6 points per game less than the division-leading men’s team, who, by the way, are among the most reliable spectators at women’s games, this year’s women recently turned in a record-tying 103-point performance against East Tennessee State. Unfortunately, no one was there to see the scoreboard light up with triple digits. Attendance records are constantly being met and broken for men’s games—which delights me and anyone else who still believes in school colors and fight songs—but rarely do more than 50 students show up to watch the women play.

I am, no doubt, overgeneralizing. But take a break from the library before the basketball season slips away. Go see Janna Magette dominate in her pre-wrap headband. Watch the strong game Courtney Laird and Megan Bryant have been playing. Support first-year head coach Annette Watts. But most of all, enjoy the show.

On another note, how about those Patriots? There’s nothing like a Super Bowl (and the promise of pizza, chicken wings, and the most entertaining commercials of the year) to bring a hall together. It doesn’t take a football expert to appreciate the excitement and camaraderie of the event.

By Erin DELK, Staff Writer

Gardner-Webb

Davidson scraped through a shaky first half, scoring only four points in the first eight minutes, to pull out a close win over Gardner-Webb, 68-56, last Thursday night in Belk Arena. Seeing her starters turn the ball over on the first possession and proceed to go scoreless for the opening two minutes, Wildcat head coach Annette Watts sent a convincing message to her players and to the crowd by subbing in a fresh five at the 18-minute mark. The message was delivered, as newly subbed Robyn Flewelling scored immediately, followed by freshman Janelle Fassbender’s steal at the other end of the court.

However, the jump start did not last long; last season’s sluggish starts crept back into memory as the ’Cats continued to play sloppy offense, turning the ball over 13 times in the first half, and shooting only 37 percent from the floor. Luckily, the Lady Bulldogs had their own turnover woes, with 11 in the first half, allowing Davidson to stay in the game, and finally catch up by the 10:35 mark with a lay-up by sophomore center Meghan Bryant. The ’Cats took the lead for the first time with two minutes left to go on a lay-up by Bryant.Expert to know what made that game special. When a band of multi-million dollar players asks to be introduced as a team, it’s not hard to be happy for them. Three-point basket by sophomore point guard Lindsay Shade. Gardner-Webb continued to battle, but a three-point basket by Flewelling gave the Cats a three-point edge, 30-27, heading to the locker room at halftime. Davidson settled down in the second half, committing only four turnovers. However, the Lady Bulldogs would not quit, and finally regained a 51-49 lead at the 4:30 mark. Stellar sophomore performances continued as Flewelling gave the ’Cats the lead again on a put-back with 2:40 to go, followed by Bryant’s steal and the old-fashioned three-point play, meriting a Gardner-Webb timeout. Determined, Davidson applied full-court pressure and a grueling match-up zone the rest of the game to squelch any further G-W runs. Although the Wildcats shot a meager 37 percent from the floor, their scoring front was well-rounded with four players, Bryant, Magette, Hallsted, and Flewelling, in double digits. As senior guard D’Erica Taylor noted, “Gardner-Webb had some offensive weapons that gave us trouble, but fortunately we were able to pull it out in the end.”

UNC Greensboro — The Wildcats faced and fell, 71-44, to their toughest conference action so far. 

Photo by Matt Whited: Courtney Laird goes up for a basket over a Gardner-Webb defender.

Women’s basketball stays on conference roller coaster. Wildcats hold on against Gardner-Webb, fall hard to UNCG, Furman.

Saturday afternoon against UNC Greensboro, number one in the Southern Conference. Against a team as solid as the Spartans, Davidson knew they had to bring in their best A game to compete for a victory down the stretch. Unfortunately, shooting woes from the previous Gardner-Webb game worsened for Davidson, and, as sophomore point guard Lindsay Shade remarked, “UNCG is just too good of a team for us to expect to beat without putting considerable points on the board. Just as our phenomenal shooting in the ETSU game was contagious, our poor shooting in this game was contagious.” As Shade said, Davidson’s shooting was disappointing: 26.2 percent from the floor, and 16.7 percent from behind the arc. The ’Cats kept the game relatively close throughout the first half, entering the break down only 14 points. Unfortunately, the inability to make shot attempt after shot attempt, with “so many shots rimming in and out,” as sophomore guard Robyn Flewelling noted, allowed the Spartans to convincingly pull away in the second half as they burst out of the locker room with an 8-0 run. The Wildcats were never able to utilize their number one scoring threat, senior guard and third best Southern Conference shooter Janna Magette. Normally averaging 17.1 points per game, Magette could only connect on two baskets. Her teammates were just as plagued, with the leading scorer, freshman forward Emily Callahan, scoring only nine points. Brianne Dodgen and Jessica Williams paced UNCG, with 15 and 14 points respectively.

Furman — The women continued to skid last Tuesday against Furman (7-6, 12-10), falling to the Lady Paladins 85-74. With the loss, the Wildcats fell to 4-8 in the conference and 8-13 overall. In an offensively intense first half, Davidson shot 44.1 percent. After ten lead changes, Furman led 49-43 at the half. Both Janna Magette and Bethany Schott were scoring in the double digits by the break. By the end of the game, four Wildcats were in double digits: Schott with 16, Megan Bryant with 13, and 11 from Courtney Laird. Magette earned a double-double with 18 points and 10 rebounds. Davidson will host Appalachian State University on Saturday, Feb. 9 at 3 p.m. The Mountaineers are 4-9 in the conference and 8-14 overall.