THE Davidsonian

Nolan leads field hockey to win over Georgetown

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

Coming off difficult losses to Appalachian State and Radford University, the Davidson field hockey team finished its week on a positive note by beating Georgetown University 2-0.

The eventful week began on Wednesday, October 23, when the ‘Cats faced NorPac opponent Appalachian State for the second time this season. In September, Davidson defeated the Mountaineers 3-1. The outcome, unfortunately, was not the same this time, as the ‘Cats fell to Appalachian State 3-0. Despite the Davidson loss, goalkeeper Sarah Nolan made three saves in the game, giving her 123 on the year, enough single-season saves to take fifth place in the Wildcat record books.

The loss to Appalachian State left Davidson at 3-2 in conference play, just behind first-place Radford. In order to attain the top spot in the conference, the ‘Cats would have had to beat Radford in their game on Saturday. Davidson fought hard in the contest but fell short, 1-0, giving Radford the number one seed for the East division of the conference. The Highlanders had the offensive advantage by outshooting Davidson 9-5 and obtaining 9 penalty corners to Davidson’s 6.

After those two heartbreaking losses to NorPac opponents, the ‘Cats defeated the Hoyas 2-0 on home territory. Nolan helped improve Davidson’s record to 7-10 overall with her fifth shutout of the season. Kathleen Fenn led the way on the attacking end for the ‘Cats, scoring her team-high seventh goal of the season midway through the first half. Jess Barton and Tiffany Homan provided Fenn with the assist off of a penalty corner. Davidson dominated possession of the ball during the first half and managed to take nine shots on cage. The midfield transition was efficient, and passing was crisp and accurate.

The ‘Cats increased their lead in the second half when senior Alex Rogers scored her second goal of the season off of a Georgetown deflected save. Rogers capitalized on the loose rebound and put the ball away to pad the lead. Playing an important role in the victory was the defensive duo of Jess Barton and Courtney Hughes. As usual, the pair combined to form a protective barrier around Nolan, allowing only nine shots on goal. Nolan did her share of work by making seven saves and shutting out the Hoya attack. The Wildcats outshot the Hoyas 16-9, while getting 12 penalty corners to Georgetown’s eight. Jessica Herring had seven saves for the Hoyas.

The ‘Cats take to the field for their final regular season game on Saturday, November 2, at 2 p.m. Davidson will face Virginia Commonwealth in Richmond, VA, in hopes of concluding their season with a win.

For SCHOLARSHIP AND ENROLLMENT INFORMATION VISIT Mayor Leslie MG #7 Jackson Court OR CALL 704-894-2165

Sports Information

Senior Roberta Quis attacks the opposing defense.

Surging volleyball now in third place after seven straight wins

By Mike Giglio
Staff Writer

Davidson volleyball continues to fly high. After three more victories this past week, all over conference opponents, the Wildcats have now won seven straight. The team stands at 17-8 on the season, with a 10-3 conference record.

On Sunday, in their most recent triumph, the ‘Cats stepped all over Western Carolina as they moved past the Catamounts into third place in the Southern Conference. Davidson swept the match (33-21, 30-26, 30-27) despite the best efforts of the opposition. The first two games were closely contested, and in the opener, the Wildcats trailed 29-25 before tying the game.At 29 and eventually emerging victorious. The third and final game saw some excitement of its own, as Western Carolina fought back to within one point after falling behind 27-20. Rebecca Teichgraeber had a match-high sixteen putaways, while Roberta Quis posted fifteen kills and a .333 attack percentage. Julia Hueckel and Meredith Lorenz joined her with .333 percentages of their own, while adding ten putaways each.

On Tuesday, as the ‘Cats were making their way to third place, they defeated Wofford (26-30, 30-28, 30-21, 38-36) in a hotly contested match to extend their winning streak to five. Wofford won the first game and nearly took the second, as they came back from six points behind to tie the game at 27. The fourth game, which was the longest either team had played all season, saw the Wildcats come back from a 16-8 deficit to tie the game at 23-23. Both teams would continue to fight hard from there before the ‘Cats were finally able to pull away for the exhaustive victory. Quis led Davidson with nineteen kills, two aces, and four blocks. Tisha Chapman added thirteen kills and four blocks, and Teichgraeber approached a double-double with twelve kills and nine digs. Nicole Tonelli turned in a strong performance with sixty assists.

The Wildcats further extended their streak on Saturday with a victory over Chattanooga (25-30, 30-24, 24-30, 30-23, 15-10) that took all of their effort and all of five games. In the win, the ‘Cats again demonstrated their ability to come out on top of a close match. After losing the first game of the day, Davidson was able to bounce back and take the second. The third game, however, saw them fall to a 2-1 deficit and placed them on the verge of defeat. The Wildcats trailed 16-13 in the fourth game before going on a 5-0 run that allowed them to take the lead. The ‘Cats didn’t look back from there, as they never trailed for the rest of game four and dominated game five from start to finish. Chapman came through with nineteen putaways and four blocks, while Tonelli had another impressive night with eight service aces and fifty-seven assists. Quis and Teichgraeber each reached a double-double in the win.

The Wildcats now trail second-place College of Charleston by one game. The two teams square off in Belk Arena at 7 p.m. on Friday in what promises to be an exciting match. Davidson then takes on conference opponents The Citadel on Friday and UNC Greensboro on Tuesday as they pursue Georgia Southern (13-1) and the top spot in the conference.

Crew places well in Knoxville

On Saturday, Oct. 13, the crew team competed in its first race of the fall season at the Head of the Tennessee regatta in Knoxville. The novice women’s A and B boats came in 5th and 9th, respectively, out of 25 teams. The novice men’s B boat made an impressive showing by finishing 6th out of 19. The A boat ended up in 7th place. Trey Straussberger ’05 has also been learning to scull this fall and finished 6th in the championship men’s single event. Sophomores Ben Ralston and Patrick Hicks came in 8th in the men’s open pair event. The varsity men’s A boat barely missed out on a medal by coming in fourth. While the varsity men’s B rowers were somewhat disappointed in their 13th-place finish, the fact that the boat’s time was only ninety seconds behind the A boat shows how extremely competitive the event was. The varsity women have shown a remarkable improvement this fall, and they placed 5th and 11th out of 15 teams.

- Andrea Lytle