THE DAVIDSONIAN

’Cats in tight race
Davidson, Furman tied at 7-11 for final slot

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

With barely a month of regular season play remaining, the Davidson baseball team finds itself in a battle for the
eighth and final spot in next month’s Southern Conference Tournament. Tied with Furman at 7-11 in SoCon action, the Wildcats
have 12 conference games left on the schedule, nine of which are at home.

In a non-conference contest last Wednesday, the Davidson nine traveled to Chapel Hill to take on the 13th-ranked Tar Heels.
Despite grabbing an initial lead when senior Tim Frend singled in junior DJ Dailey, in the seventh, junior Stephen Choate
entered with a runner on second and one out, but retired the next two batters to end the inning. Junior
Matt Hood successfully escaped a two-on, two-out situation in the eighth and eventually picked up his second save of the
season. Senior co-captain James Marino, Navarro, and Dailey each had two hits to pace the offense.

“The bottom of the order generated some quality offense for us today,” noted head coach Dick Cooke. “Picking up two
conference wins on the road is very good.”

Looking for the three-game sweep, the Diamond ’Cats jumped out to a three-run lead and rallied for seven runs in
the top of the ninth, but were eventually overpowered by their ACC opponent and took a 9-2 loss.

At Furman for a three-game series, Davidson got the ball rolling with a 3-0 victory as Frend shut out the
Paladins on six hits while walking just one and striking out a career-high 14 batters. The complete-game shutout was Davidson’s
first since Wes Self opened the 2001 season with a 4-0 no-hitter against High Point. Senior Steven Aldrich led all
hitters, going 2 for 2 with a run and an RBI, while freshmen Eli Benefield and Sam Navarro each recorded
two base knocks as the Wildcats improved to 6-10 in league play.

One day later, Benefield launched a three-run home run in the sixth to break a 1-1 tie and Davidson’s bullpen
spun a beauty, yielding just two runs in 7.2 innings en route to the 4-3 win. Junior starter Derrick Wolpert
was knocked out of the game in the second inning when a line drive drilled him in the ribs. Sophomore
Matt Dellinger (3-2) came out of the bullpen in relief and ended up pitching five innings, surrendering just two runs
on seven hits to pick up the win.

In the bottom of the eleventh, the visiting Wildcats were downed by a score of 12-11. “This is one of
those games that explains why baseball doesn’t have a clock,” commented Cooke after the loss. “We got a little help
from [Furman], but we also had some great at-bats by our guys. While we were disappointed that we didn’t hang
on, we were real pleased that we kept battling.”

For their part, the Davidson nine rapped out 14 hits, as junior Chris Emond had his first career three-hit game.
Freshman Justin Hartanov added two hits and an RBI in his first collegiate start. Davidson’s Wildcats return to action at
Duke tonight and will host Western Carolina for a three-game series.game conference series this weekend. Large rugs may be co

PART TIME ORIENTAL RUG SALESPERSON Needed at Rugs by Sibel in Kenton Place (Exit 25 off of I-77 towards the
lake). Must be well-spoken. Some turning of rugs required as well as delivery and installations to homes in vans. More
than one part-time student possible. Saturday essential. PAYS $8.50/hr. 12-5137

By Mark Pustay Staff Writer

For the majority of the spring season, the Davidson golf team kept concentrating on improvement, hoping that once conference championships
came around, the team would be ready. Judging by their performance at the Wofford Invitational this past week, the ’Cats
are ready to make some noise. Thanks to a season-low score in the tournament’s final round, the Wildcats vaulted to
an eighth-place finish at the Wofford Invitational April 12-13 in Spartanburg, SC. Davidson’s finish was accentuated by a six-under-par 282
in the final round. Three of the five Davidson golfers went below par on the tournament’s final day, with junior
Ben Friedell firing a career-low 67. Friedell’s three-round total of 219 (+3) was good enough to finish in twelfth place
among all participants. The rest of the team followed Friedell’s lead, as the strong final round play proved infectious. Freshmen
Joe Zimmerman and Peyton Gallagher both fired a 223, tying them for twenty-eighth place. Zimmerman recovered from an opening round
80 with a pair of strong rounds (73-70) to help the Davidson effort. After an auspicious debut last week, Peyton
Gallagher continued his strong rookie effort with a final round 71, one under par on the 6,841-yard track. Freshman Dan
Koernke came through with a solid effort, carding a three-round score of 231. Sophomore Jon Kropski got into the act
as well, rounding out the Davidson attack with a 235.

The University of Virginia took home the overall team title with a two-under-par 862, one shot ahead of East Carolina.
Steve Marino led the Cavaliers, torching the Carolina Country Club with a nine-under-par score, including a final round 65. Chris
Piercy of Old Dominion finished second overall with a 72-71-68 score. Kirk Satterfield of Furman finished five shots behind Marino’s
pace, coming away with a third-place finish. Friedell was encouraged by the team’s breakout performance. “We took a huge step
in the right direction—we were able to put it together on Saturday morning and fire the best round of the
day and our best round of the year by far. We needed a confidence boost going into the conference tournament
and we got it.” The ’Cats now know they can contend for the Southern Conference title. “Now we believe that
we can play with the best teams in the conference,” remarked Friedell. “With such a young team anything can happen
and it doesn’t take much for us to get on a roll like we showed last Saturday. It is fun
to play well and now we know we can compete this coming week and maybe do something really special.” Coach
Straub echoed Friedell’s comments. “I feel very good about the team and our last two performances. We are definitely playing
our best as a team heading into the Southern Conference tournament. The guys have worked very hard all year and
the work is starting to pay off.” The Wildcats now look toward the all-important conference championships at Furman on April
19-21. The ’Cats will try to upset tournament favorites East Tennessee State and host Furman to win the league title.

Davidsonian SPORTS

Be a part of the team! To join the sports staff, or for more information, email cahauser.
