The Davidsonian

The Augusta National Golf Club’s membership policy has recently come under attack, and for good reason: One of the world’s
most elite golf clubs and the home of the Masters still clings to an antiquated all-male membership policy. Some argue
that Augusta National is a private club that can admit members by whichever standards it sees fit. But as the
host of a world-famous golf tournament like the Masters, should the club hold itself to a higher standard than other
all-male clubs?

“Augusta made itself a public facility,” says female golfer Meg Mallon. “They are no longer a private facility, although they
like to use that as their cover.” Mallon isn’t exactly right, since Augusta National is a private club. But she
is on the right track. Augusta National is an icon to the sporting world and ultimately, our popular culture. It
is a private club that is centered on the public: a public that believes in equality.

Some draw an analogy to Augusta National’s recent admittance of African-American members only 10 years ago. The club admitted its
first black member in 1990, around the time the PGA Tour was being criticized for holding tournaments at all-white clubs.
Mallon asks, “Why is it OK for a black man to bully his way into Augusta and not OK for
a black woman to bully her way into Augusta?” In 1990, the PGA and the public were appalled that Augusta
National could have a policy so blatantly discriminatory as to bar non-whites from being members. A mere 12 years later,
we should be equally as shocked by Augusta National’s policy barring female members.

Some may argue that women do get a chance to play at Augusta National. However, women are permitted to play
on an invitation-only basis. It’s usually limited to wives, children, and close friends of a male member, with the women
not being members in their own right. Although Augusta National may not be intending it, this policy makes women dependent
on men, a notion I thought we got rid of 60 years ago.

But probably the strongest argument for why Augusta National should rescind its policy is quite simple: Why does it need
it? What does Augusta National gain from having such a restrictive policy, short of a national controversy? Augusta National’s policy
of barring women is nothing more than a relic of an age past. As one of the centers of the
American golfing world, Augusta National, as well as the PGA as a whole, should enact an equal-membership policy.

Augusta National Membership

The National Council of Women’s Organizations (NCWO) has decided the best way to gain some free publicity is to attack
the Augusta National Golf Club. The group has been trying since June to force the club to alter its admissions
policy and admit women. William “Hootie” Johnson, the president of the club that has hosted the prestigious Masters Tournament since
1934, responded by saying the club will not submit to pressure to change its admissions policy from an “outside group
with its own agenda.”

Calling NCWO’s tactics “offensive and coercive,” he added, “We will not be bullied, threatened or intimidated. We do not intend
to become a trophy in their display case.” The feminists then went to Coca-Cola, IBM, and Citigroup to demand that
they end their corporate sponsorship of the Masters Tournament unless the golf club changes its policy. In response, Johnson promptly
canceled commercial advertising on the televised 2003 Masters Tournament in order to protect the corporations from the feminists’ rage.

In this insipid age of political correctness, Augusta National is going to have a rough time standing up to this
flock of mindless “activists.” Despite the fact that women played over 1,000 rounds of golf last year at Augusta National,
these women just can’t stand it that one of the 300 members isn’t a woman. Instead of focusing on an
issue that is important, such as school choice, they are having fun bringing Augusta National to its knees.

The question of Augusta National membership is exactly that: it’s up to the club. One would suppose that if Augusta
National chose to admit only cleft-chinned Norwegians, that would be the members’ prerogative. This process is known as the free-market
approach, and the NCWO doesn’t understand this one bit. I do believe that women should be part of the Augusta
National Golf Club. Any club that hosts a golf tournament, especially one like the Masters, needs to be inclusive. However,
that is up to the club and its members to decide. Hootie Johnson needs to remain firm on his stance
and tell the—feminists he is not going to cave in to their nagging or tantrums. The last thing he’s going
to do is admit female members, in his words, “at the point of a bayonet.” Maybe if the feminists stop
their beleaguering of Johnson, he’ll do so.

Crow, from page 10: Why should I care about sprawl? While we as students might not realize it, sprawl affects
our lives as much as any other local residents. Have you ever noticed how you have to drive somewhere to
do virtually anything? That’s because the car-based culture that suburban sprawl mandates has caused restaurants, stores, and movie theaters to
cluster around interstate off-ramps. This type of planning prohibits pedestrian travel, causing traffic and pollution, not to mention a major
inconvenience for those people who do not have a car or do not have time to drive to Wal-Mart to
shop. Perhaps even more bothersome is the lack of a true sense of place in most suburban communities. Davidson’s Main
Street is the classic model of a pedestrian-friendly street that creates a distinctive sense of place with its unique (and
largely independently-owned) shops and historic architecture. While Davidson might be criticized for the limited variety and upscale nature of its
shops, at least our small town does not look like every other exit off of Interstate 77.

by Jeremy Trantham

My birthday advice: Enjoy 21 while you still can. After an agonizing wait, my roommate is finally turning 21 this
weekend. The requisite debacle of a party is slated for Saturday. The working title is “Ambulance Party 2K2.” We’re going
to keep the medics on call Saturday just in case. For a 21st birthday party, it should probably be a
requirement. We won’t be flying an American flag at the party. We’d hate to be accused of trying to exclude
anyone. The truth of the matter is—if you can remember your 21st birthday party, then you wasted the last good
birthday you’re ever going to have. I can remember my 21st. I had a test the next morning, so I
couldn’t really celebrate the way I should have. Thanks, Davidson.

This coming Oct. 10, I turn 22. And it’s starting to depress me. The last few birthdays haven’t always been
as meaningful as 21, but at least they haven’t been depressing. Come to think of it, I doubt that any
birthday is as meaningful as the 21st. Legally, the only big day between 16 and 21 is 18. You can
purchase tobacco and begin having sexual relations without parental consent. So for tobacco addicts and sex-fiends, turning 18 is more
important than 21. Unfortunately, some people are more prolific drinkers than lovers. The fact that you’re a huge drunk can
keep you from getting any. Or, the fact that you aren’t getting any can lead you to drink. Either way,
there’s some kind of relationship between drinking and sex that needs to be explored.

Seventeen and 19 are legally worthless birthdays. But at least you’re still a teenager. Being a teenager gives you the
freedom to do exceptionally stupid things and blame them on hormones. It’s a license to be stupid. Turning 20 can’t
be depressing either. It may signal to you that adulthood is near, but you still have the Big One to
look forward to. It may be the longest year of your life. Turning 21 is great for obvious reasons. Even
if you aren’t a boozehound, you can at least appreciate getting into bars and having a club soda.

The prospect of turning 22 is frightening. I can already drink and drive. Just not at the same time. But
what’s to look forward to when you turn 22? Turning 23? Remind me not to get overly excited. Every birthday
after 21 is just a reminder that you’re a year older. For me, it’s a reminder that I’m a year
older and have no clue what I want to do with my life. And aside from wanting to be the
most useless Vice-President in history, I’m not particularly ambitious. At least for a Davidson student. My personal quote for the
admissions office would read something like: “Although topping some of our former VPs on the useless scale will take some
work, I feel that my Davidson experience has aptly prepared me physically, emotionally, and mentally for the task. For instance:
the night of my 21st birthday, I was busy studying for a test. Thanks, Davidson.”

Fortunately, I still get carded when I buy alcohol. You’re not officially old until you stop getting carded. Until then,
I’m still going to blame my moronic behavior on hormones. Thank God for small favors.
