By Grant FEHLING
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team fell to top-ranked Wake Forest last night amidst a downpour in Richardson Stadium. The Deacons shut out the Wildcats 4-0, ending a month-long Davidson unbeaten streak. With last night’s loss, the Wildcats drop to 9-5-4 and the Demon Deacons remain unbeaten at 13-0-4.

“As we've done on several occasions this year, we came out flat," said head coach Matt Spear. "Usually we can hold a team as we gather our confidence and gain our rhythm, but Wake Forest got the early goal to gain the momentum. They feasted on that for the rest of the game.”

Wake applied pressure early into the match and got a quick goal about the six-minute mark. About 10 minutes later, the Deacons scored again to make the score 2-0. Finally, Wake got its third goal of the game a few minutes before the first half ended. The Wildcats had a myriad of opportunities throughout the first half, two of which came with the score still 2-0. Freshman Will Carroll had a shot in the first few that ricocheted off the post and freshman Matt Allain had a great scoring opportunity around the 25-minute mark.

Returning from the half at a 3-0 deficit, the Wildcats did not make a comeback. The second half was controlled by Wake’s stalwart defense and all-around quickness. The Deacons got their final goal of the game midway through the second half off a cross that was almost cleared away from the goalmouth.

“I think they were a good team,” commented freshman starter John Latting, “but everyone knew it was going to be a battle.” This was the first loss of this kind that the team had faced this season, and they hope to prove themselves against Furman and in the Southern Conference Tournament. “It could have gone either way,” Latting added, “and it didn’t go in our favor.”

Davidson hopes to rebound from the loss as they face their last match of the regular season before heading to the SoCon tournament next weekend. They face nationally-ranked Furman this Sunday. The opening kickoff is scheduled for 7 p.m.

Saturday; Pollak leads wrestlers in season opener at VMI

LEXINGTON, Va. - Ten Davidson wrestlers started the 2002-03 season Sunday at the Keydet Invitational, hosted by Southern Conference rival VMI. Heavyweight freshman John Pollak had perhaps the best day for the Wildcats as he placed third in his bracket. Pollak dropped his opening match before rebounding to pick up back-to-back wins in the consolation round to earn third place. In the consolation finals, he defeated Stelios Adractus of Old Dominion, 4-3.

In the 125-pound division, Davidson had four competitors entered including freshman Patrick Coman who reached the consolation finals. Coman fell to eventual champion Ryan McClester of The Citadel in the semifinals of the championship bracket, but rebounded to defeat teammate and fellow freshman Derek Stroke, 4-0, to reach the consolation finals.

Freshman Henry Blue (133 pounds) also notched two victories in the tournament. He downed teammate Ronnie Lofrese, 7-2, and then Mauro Bria of The Citadel, 6-3, in the consolation round. The Wildcats now gear up for the Pembroke Classic on Nov. 15 and 16 in Pembroke, N.C.

--Sports Information

Caroline Hauser

Die-hard soccer fans battled rain and cold for Tuesday’s game against Wake Forest.

Davidson 3, The Citadel 0

Graduating seniors Soren Johnson, Joel Sadler, and Hussein Nasreddin participated in their last conference game at Richardson Stadium with a 3-0 win against Citadel. The win was a good tribute to the time the three players gave to the program. One record that is close to being beaten is the all-time career shutout record. Johnson recorded two saves against Citadel and also got his 19th shutout. He is only one shutout away from tying the all-time shutout record at Davidson, held by Alex Deegan ’93.

Wednesday

Davidson 1, Clemson 1

Battling yet another nationally ranked team in Richardson Stadium last Wednesday, the men’s soccer team equaled eighth-ranked Clemson with a score of 1-1. The action-packed game moved the Wildcats to 8-4-4 and the Tigers to 10-2-3. Although they did not get a win, the Wildcats did not buckle under their third ACC challenge of the season.Win puts their record against top-ten nationally ranked teams at 2-0-1 and maintains a sense of confidence heading towards the tournaments at the end of the season.

The History:
The Wildcats have won each of the team’s three meetings since 1999, including last year’s season finale 17-12. Several offensive starters missed that game with injuries, including Paul Nichols, John Leverett, Mike Chase, and Barrett Johnson. Davidson turned the ball over six times but got a big day from senior Ward Gibson, who rushed for 110 yards. Both Wildcat touchdowns came from two players no longer on the team, cornerback Mo Idlibi and tight end Chris Caison.

The Opponent:
The teams will battle for second place in the Pioneer League’s South Division on Saturday. The Governors are enjoying their best season since 1984, the last time they finished with a winning record. A 45-0 victory over St. Joseph’s (Ind.) was their first shutout in the last 180 games. The Govs have already doubled last season’s victory total of three wins. Senior running back Jay Bailey leads the attack with 1,368 yards and 15 touchdowns on the season.

DAVIDSON (6-3, 1-1) VS. AUSTIN PEAY (6-4, 1-1)
3 p.m. Governor’s Stadium Clarksville, Tenn.

Tigers in Shootout:
Paul Nichols and Mike Chase have already secured their places in Davidson football history with numerous individual records and plenty of wins. In Saturday’s 41-38 road victory over Hampden-Sydney, both seniors showed they’re not done yet. Nichols passed for four touchdowns—two of them to Chase—to hold off a late Tigers rally and assure the Wildcats (6-3, 1-1) of a fifth consecutive winning season. Chase’s 11 touchdown receptions tie a single-season record set by George Hannen in 1969. Another senior, kicker Daniel Hanks, converted three of five extra-point attempts to become the team’s all-time leading scorer with 204 points. And sophomore John Leverett, who will likely set his own records before his career is done, rushed for 101 yards and two touchdowns—including the game-clinching score with seven minutes left.

It almost wasn’t enough. The Wildcats blew a 27-7 halftime lead by giving up four scores and a 32-yard field goal in the second half. Leverett’s second touchdown run from two yards out provided just enough separation to seal the win. Hampden-Sydney drove to the Wildcat 35-yard line, just beyond the range of a game-tying field goal attempt, before running out of downs with 1:09 left. The late rally provided some nervous moments for Hanks, who missed two extra point attempts that could have proved disastrous. “I guess I’ll never live down the fact that I missed my first chance to break the record,” he said. “But at least I got another chance, so I don’t have to worry about it anymore.” Hanks blamed the misses on muddy field conditions and a case of the jitters, but also thanked his teammates for providing him with plenty of scoring opportunities. “Had I not had a successful offense around me, no way (I would have broken it). I’d be just another kicker,” said Hanks, who has 57 points this season after 33 last year. The 38 points are the most the Wildcats have ever surrendered in a victory in the program’s 106-year history.

-Matt Garfield

What To Expect:
This game is the difference between a respectable season and a mediocre one for the Wildcats. The senior class, one of the most productive in team history, deserves to go out with a win. If the defense can contain Bailey and prevent big plays (unlike last week), bet on a fourth straight Davidson triumph to close another winning season.

-Matt Garfield

Player of the Week:
Daniel Hanks ‘03 Football
Hometown: Rome, Georgia
Major: Economics
Hanks eclipsed former running back Eric Ferguson’s all-time scoring record of 202 points on Saturday by kicking three PATs, giving him 204 points in his four years as kicker for the Wildcats.

THE WEEK AHEAD:
Field Hockey at Norpac Tournament in Stanford, CA (through Saturday)
Women’s Soccer at UNC Greensboro (Southern Conference Tournament game) Friday 5:00 p.m.
Swimming at East Carolina Saturday 12:00 p.m.
Football at Austin Peay 3:00 p.m.
Women’s XC at NCAA South Region Championships in Greenville, NC Sunday 2:00 p.m.
Volleyball at Georgia Southern 3:00 p.m.
Men’s Soccer at Furman 7:00 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Wofford 3:00 p.m.