By JONATHAN CROOKS
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team ended their spring season at the Southern Conference Tournament in Charleston, SC, last weekend. The
Wildcats defeated Wofford College 4-1 in first-round action before falling 4-0 in a quarterfinal loss to East Tennessee State University.
The tournament brought joy, as head coach Jeff Frank earned his 500th career collegiate victory with the team’s win over
Wofford, and heartbreak, as the Wildcats were unable to overcome ETSU.

The Wildcats jumped out early against the Terriers by winning the doubles point. At number one doubles, Rob Haywood ’04
and Donald Miles ’05 defeated the team of Lee Porter and Brandon Smith 8-5, while Chad Winebarger ’02 and Rob
Gould ’04 defeated Dial Burwell and Edward Mosely at number two doubles. At number three doubles, Brett Johnson and Jason
Mengel were leading Geoffrey Mullen ’03 and Jonathan Britt ’04 when the match was pulled once the ’Cats had captured
the doubles point, a conference tournament rule.

In singles, the Wildcats won the necessary three matches before the entire match was called. At number four singles, Britt
defeated Burwell 6-1, 5-7, 6-2, while Miles defeated Alec Wilson 6-4, 6-0 at number five singles. At number six singles,
Mullen won his match over Mengel 6-3, 2-6, 6-2. Both Winebarger and Haywood were leading their matches when the overall
contest was called, since the Wildcats had earned the required four points for the victory. The only loss came at
number two singles where David Webb ’02 lost 6-4, 6-2 to Lee Porter.

The victory over Wofford was one that neither the team nor Frank will soon forget. Thursday’s 4-1 victory marked Frank’s
500th career win as the head coach of the Davidson men’s tennis team. Over the thirty years that Frank has
coached the Wildcats, he has compiled a spectacular 500-269-1 record, earned two regular season Southern Conference championships, and captured one
Southern Conference Tournament championship.

“This team has really surprised me,” said Frank afterwards. “With the schedule we had this year and the relative youth
of the team, it was nice to get it [500 wins] in this way.”

After capturing Frank’s thrilling 500th victory, the Wildcats battled the Buccaneers fiercely but came up short on Friday afternoon. ETSU
earned the doubles point by winning at the number one and two positions. At number one doubles, Marcos Pavlovich and
Roberto Fernandez defeated Haywood and Miles 8-4. Alejandro Salazar and Moises Serrano defeated Winebarger and Gould 8-2 at number two
doubles. At number three doubles, Mullen and Britt were tied 7-7 with Diego Iglesias and Moises Serrano when the match
was called.

In singles action, ETSU captured the necessary three wins in straight sets. Fernandez defeated Webb 6-2, 6-1 at number two
singles, while Iglesias defeated Britt at number four singles. At number five singles, Salazar defeated Miles 6-3, 6-4. Winebarger, Haywood,
and Mullen were engaged in tight, intense battles at their respective one, three, and six singles positions when the match
was called.

At the season’s end, the men’s tennis team finished with a 12-13 record and a 4-6 conference record. Despite facing
the first losing season in his thirty-year tenure, Frank could not be more proud or pleased with his squad. The
team rose to the challenge of competing against ten nationally ranked teams during the regular season schedule. In addition, both
he and assistant coach Scott Briggs saw immense improvement in their players’ development throughout the season.

In fact, Frank is already looking forward to next season. He expects nine or ten freshmen to be competing for
spots on the squad in the fall. With such a young team picking up experience quickly and improving immensely, the
Davidson Wildcats will be a team to reckon with in the next couple of seasons.

Sam Navarro ’05 steps up to the plate for the Wildcats. Photo by Erin Berry.

Coming next week, baseball’s 100th anniversary.

Wildcats fall short in SoCon; Price named Coach of the Year
By AMANDA MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

Despite an incredible regular season, the women’s tennis team could not hold on for the conference championship, losing in the
semifinals to Furman, the eventual champions. However, the Wildcats have come a long way since the onset of their season
to make it to this stopping point.Junior co-captain Yasamina Hilu explains, “Looking back to the whole season, we have nothing
to be disappointed about. It was the best season ever, not just because of our great wins but because of
the way our team showed so much heart and became so close.” This heart demonstrates why the number five Wildcats
came away with their biggest win of the tournament, upsetting the number four Wofford Terriers, 4-1, a team they had
lost to 4-3 earlier in the season. During conference play, once a team reaches the necessary four points to win,
the match is called. In doubles action, the combination of freshman Meggie Patterson and sophomore Katherine Hatch proved too much
for Wofford’s Meghan Turner and Delaine Hare, defeating them 8-5. Senior co-captain Kelley Cantrell and Hilu cinched the doubles point
by defeating Kristine Banks and Mary Wallace Deberry, 8-3. Although it did not count, the freshmen duo of Meghan and
Kelly Fillnow came away with another win, defeating Wendy Rohr and Lauren Marie Whisenhunt, 7-6. For the singles points, it
was the number three, four, and five spots that came through for the Wildcats. Patterson handed Whisenhunt a 6-2, 6-4
loss, while Meghan Fillnow passed on the same treatment to Hare, 6-2, 6-0. Cantrell brought home the win with a
6-0, 6-0 shutout over Turner. Other scores include a Kelly Fillnow win over Rohr, 6-4, 1-6. Unfortunately, Wofford’s Deberry overcame
Hilu, 6-1, 6-1, as Banks did the same to Hatch, 4-6, 2-0. Moving into the semifinals on April 20, the
Wildcats were matched up against top-seeded Furman, who came away with a 4-0 victory, advancing them to the finals, and
now the NCAA tournament after their win over the College of Charleston. Despite the loss, the Wildcats showed heart throughout
the competition. In the doubles, they struggled to pull away with a win, as Furman’s Megan Dunigan and Natalie The
overcame the Fillnow twins, 6-1. Caroline Bentley and Mary Kovarik dealt Patterson and Hatch the same fate, 8-0, while Gene
Holman and Mary Neil Hagood swept the point by defeating Cantrell and Hilu, 8-2. In singles action, Furman still proved
to be too much. Dunigan defeated Kelly Fillnow, 6-3, 5-2, while Holman handed her sister a similar fate, 6-1, 6-2.
Kovarik proved too much for Patterson, beating her 6-1, 4-2, while Hagood just barely snuck by Cantrell, 7-5, 1-1. The
and Bentley handed the final blows to Hilu and Hatch, respectively, with the same score of 6-0, 6-0. The Wildcats
ended the 2002 season with a 17-7 overall record (6-3 in the conference), their best in ten years. Yet, despite
ending with a loss to Furman, the Wildcats came away with several individual victories. Cantrell ends her stint at Davidson
with 44 singles victories, 18 of which came from this season. Named to the first team All-Conference for her singles
play, Kelly Fillnow has posted a 17-6 overall record, and 6-3 in conference competition. This is the best record for
a number one spot player since 1981, when Emily Knobloch held that honor. Joining her is fellow teammate Patterson, who
was named to the second team All-Conference. Patterson has a 15-8 overall record, and finished 6-3 in the conference. Yet
another team honor was awarded to Kelly and Meghan Fillnow, placing them on the second team All-Conference for doubles. They
also finished with a 15-8 overall record, and 6-3 in the conference. Perhaps the most impressive honor bestowed upon the
Wildcats comes not to a player, but to head coach Caroline Price. She was named Conference Coach of the Year,
an honor well deserved by a coach that has brought this team so far. Price also received this honor in
1994 and 1996. Having been at Davidson for 20 seasons, she has led the Wildcats to 15 winning seasons, and
a Division III national championship in 1984.

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Apr. 25 @ UNC Asheville 3:00
Apr. 26 @ Ohio 4:00
Apr. 27 VMI (2) 12:00
Apr. 28 VMI 1:00
May 1 @ Wake Forest 3:00

LACROSSE
Apr. 25 @ Ohio State 1:00

Men’s TRACK & FIELD
Apr. 26-27 @ Penn Relays

Inspirational Quote of the Week
“Most successful men have not achieved their distinction by having some new talent or opportunity presented to them. They have
developed the opportunity that was at hand.” - Bruce Marton
