Soccer team eager for conference all: We Red Sox fans are a fanatical bunch. Many liken us to a cult,
which is an accurate assessment considering our great obsession with a team that causes more heartache than happiness. And, to
clear up any confusion, we really do hate the Yankees. Our animosity runs deep and makes little sense to an
outsider, but imagine how Wile E. Coyote feels about the Roadrunner, and you get the basic idea.

While in Boston this summer with a self-proclaimed New Yorker (apparently southwestern Connecticut has annexed from New England), I asked
a policeman for his thoughts on the Yankees. “I’m a Dodgers fan,” he replied. “But the Yankees suck.” Then, as
has become common practice in Beantown these days, half of Faneuil Hall began chanting “Yankees Suck! Yankees Suck!” You see,
Bostonians actually wanted a strike, for the sole reason that we wouldn’t have to watch our bitter rivals win yet
another championship.

In 1914 the Red Sox purchased the contract of a young pitcher named George Herman Ruth. “The Bambino,” as he
was called, emerged as one of the best pitchers and hitters the game has ever seen, and Boston won three
championships in his first four full seasons with the team (Read: Boston actually has won a few World Series). In
1920, however, the team sold Ruth to Colonel Jacob Ruppert’s New York Yankees for $100,000 and a loan collateralized by
Fenway Park. Since this colossal blunder, the Red Sox have appeared in just four Fall Classics, losing all in seven
games, and are said to be cursed by the Bambino himself.

More than ever, this was supposed to be our year. Seven All-star selections, the best pitching duo in baseball (Pedro
Martinez and Derek Lowe) and a lineup with more potential than the Agassi/Graf kid, all gave some validity to the
“Reverse the Curse” signs plastered on every street sign in Greater Boston. Of course, every season has been dubbed “the
year” since the Woodrow Wilson administration and after the weekend Boston was all but out of the playoff picture, finishing
9.5 games behind New York in the AL East and 8 games behind Oakland in the Wild Card race. The
Sox were, however, tied for first place in mid-July, thereby causing more stress for their loyal fans because it’s hard
to enjoy a nice ride at the top when you keep waiting for the wheels to fall off.

Alas, my friends and I were there, at Yankee Stadium, to witness what has become an annual implosion for Boston.
We managed to scalp six tickets to the Sox-Yanks game on July 20 for $60 each. Our seats were located
high above home plate—section U6, row 10. Due to the importance of this series, emotions were running high and a
good six fights broke out in our section. We were not involved. Despite a late-inning BoSox rally, the game ended
in a 9-8 New York win, which subsequently started Boston’s slow, painful demise. To tell you the truth, the loss
didn’t hurt as much as I would have thought. As a fan of 19 years (yes, since birth), I have
come to expect this from my team. And leaving the stadium that day I was certain of two things baseball
related: next year’s our year, and the Yankees.....well, you know.

Freshman Kara Koehrn takes honors at Rocky Rococo Classic
By Justin NEILL
Staff Writer

Facing a trio of very talented opponents, the women’s soccer team dropped three consecutive games recently, putting the Wildcats at
1-5 on the season. Wake Forest, St. Louis, and Wisconsin all knocked off the ‘Cats, who managed to net just
two goals in the three contests. The women have endured a brutal season-opening stretch where Davidson’s five losses were to
opponents who currently hold a combined record of 24-6-1, with four regional top-ten rankings and one national top-ten ranking.

The three-game slide began with a trip to powerhouse Wake Forest, a team that entered the match at 4-0 and
ranked 13th in the nation. Davidson came out strong and made an early statement when junior Leigh Anne Hoskins scored
her third goal of the season and 23rd of her Davidson career in the 15th minute off a corner kick
from senior Tara Maloney. The Demon Deacons, however, responded in the 25th minute and the teams went into halftime with
the game tied. But Wake came out firing in the second stanza and proved why they are so highly ranked.
“To their credit, they showed why they’re so good. They stayed to their taskand dominated the second half,” Head Coach
Kevin Hundley commented. The outstanding goaltending of sophomore Sarah Hobart (43 saves through six games) allowed the Wildcats to stay
close until the 77th minute, when Wake took the lead for good. A late score gave the Demon Deacons the
two-goal win. Following the loss, the Wildcats headed out to the Rocky Rococo Classic, in Madison, Wisconsin, for the weekend.
On Friday night, they faced the Saint Louis Billikens, who came in at 4-1 on the season. Again the Wildcats
stayed close, playing a scoreless first half thanks to solid defense and spectacular goaltending. But eventually, the lack of offensive
chances (only four shots on the night) caught up to the Wildcats, as the Billikens pulled away with two second-half
goals in a span of just 16 minutes for the 2-0 victory. Facing Wisconsin in the tournament consolation game on
Sunday afternoon, the ‘Cats once again grabbed an early lead when senior Heather Maloney scored her third goal of the
season and 30th of her career on a penalty kick in the 12th minute. But the Badgers, a game removed
from battling the highly ranked Connecticut Huskies to the wire, answered quickly with a goal in the 14th minute. Wisconsin
scored again in the 24th minute to give the Badgers a 2-1 lead, and once more in the 54th minute
to clinch the victory. Of special note, Davidson freshman Kara Koehrn was named to the All-Tournament Team for her outstanding
performance in the midfield. The Wildcats now resume conference play with four SoCon games, the first two on the road
against Appalachian State and East Tennessee State. “We're a little worried because Appalachian State plays on Astroturf, and they were
unbeaten there last season,” Coach Hundley said. “But we’ve never lost to either team before, so anything less than two
victories would be a disappointment.” After their two road games, the ‘Cats return to the friendly confines of Richardson Stadium
on Friday, September 27, for a conference home game against Chattanooga.

Field hockey picks up first-ever penalty strokes victory over Miami of Ohio
Goaltender Nolan turns away Redhawks for 2nd shutout
By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

In accordance with the age-old saying that “there’s a first time for everything,” the Davidson field hockey team picked up
its first-ever win on penalty strokes this Sunday, knocking off Miami of Ohio 1-0 in a game played at Appalachian
State. The only other time the ‘Cats played to penalty strokes was on October 20, 2000, when they lost 4-5
to Pacific. After playing two 15-minute periods of overtime, the ‘Cats and the Redhawks battled it out in a penalty
strokes competition. Davidson defeated Miami 3-1 in the competition, and therefore won the game 1-0. Megan Wiegand made the first
penalty stroke for the Redhawks. Sophomore Courtney Hughes answered for Davidson with a goal. Miami’s next shot was deflected wide
by sophomore goalie Sarah Nolan. The save gave the ‘Cats the advantage they needed to win the game. Senior Alex
Rogers capitalized on Miami’s missed shot, making the score 2-1 in favor of Davidson. Miami took two more attempts but
was unable to score. Senior Jess Barton sealed the victory, scoring the third and final penalty stroke for Davidson. Once
again the ‘Cats handled the added challenge of playing in a torrential downpour as they had done in their opening
win over Radford. A tropical rainstorm blew through the Carolinas, causing the cancellation of Davidson’s Saturday match-up with Catawba College
and making the field for Sunday’s contest a very difficult surface. Davidson dominated the game throughout the second half and
both overtime periods. They had several opportunities to score but were simply unable to finish. The ‘Cats did, in fact,
score a goal in the second half that was eventually called back. Despite the lack of goals during regulation time,
the ‘Cats made up for it during the penalty strokes competition. The ‘Cats took advantage of Miami’s 50-plus fouls during
the game to control possession. Davidson took 10 shots during the game, while Miami could muster a measly four shots
on net. Nolan made four critical saves for the ‘Cats to capture her second shutout of the season. On the
field, senior Jess Barton and junior Christina Auer both demonstrated great skill and aggressiveness in leading the ‘Cats to victory.
Davidson takes on Appalachian State at home for their next match. The game begins at 5 p.m. on Wednesday.
