Theft hits Third Cannon

RLO urges students to lock doors, exercise caution following robbery of money from dormitory room

By Nick Asma
Senior Staff Writer

A recent theft of $300 from Cannon Residence Hall has alarmed residents and prompted the Residence Life Office to remind all students to safeguard valuables. According to First Cannon resident advisor Susan Robison ’04, roommates on Third Cannon returned from Patterson Court on the evening of Saturday, Jan. 26 to find money missing from purses they had left in their room. Few residents had remained on the hall that evening, and the victims had reportedly left their door unlocked. No other valuables were missing.

Upon discovering the theft, the residents reported it to their hall counselors, who in turn encouraged them to file a report with campus police. The police arrived and opened an investigation, though they have yet to produce any significant leads. According to RLO area coordinator Darin Morrow, RLO sent out an email immediately following the event to advise hall counselors and residence advisors to remain alert and encourage residents to do the same. Residents are reminded to lock their doors when out of the room and to remain wary of suspicious activity, watching especially for unfamiliar individuals in dorms.

Most students take a more liberal approach to door locking than RLO advises. “Residents should be aware of people attempting to enter dorms behind students, otherwise known as ‘tail-gating,’” noted Morrow. “I encourage all people to understand that Davidson is not immune to acts of theft, thus it is important for students to lock up their rooms and valuables.”

Robison expressed a similar attitude of caution. “I always keep my door locked,” she noted. “It is unfortunate that everyone thinks Davidson is such a safe place.” RLO has posted flyers throughout residence halls in the effort to remind students that Davidson is not immune to crime. “Lock your doors. That is the easiest way to prevent theft,” suggests Robison. “Also, pay attention to who is coming in after you and beware of who you let in.”

Grades, from page 2

behind grade inflation. This danger stems from the fact that grade inflation affords all students high grades. Top students find it difficult to stand out to employers or graduate schools, as their performance is veiled within a sea of high GPAs.

“The very strong students would be hurt,” Ross explained, “and that’s why I find it ironic that it is sometimes the strongest students who get concerned about ‘pressure’ on grades. If everyone got a 4.0, the strong student would be totally masked with the absolute weakest student. It is absolutely critical that we be able to differentiate our strong performers.”

“I do have sympathy for students where there are arbitrary grade cutoffs,” said Ross. He explains that the school provides class profiles that allow prospective employers to “put a Davidson GPA in context.” Ross also emphasizes the willingness of his office and those in Career Services to write and talk to employers, explaining that “they are making a mistake, that they are missing some of our great students.” However, Ross does not feel that such circumstances represent sufficient reason to ease Davidson’s standards. “I would not recommend changing our overall ethos to address that one set of frustrating circumstances.”

Vinson expressed similar views. “I sympathize with those students who feel that they absolutely must keep a high GPA, and I admit that exceptional Davidson students may be highlighted by tough grading policies, some believe that it is the average students who are much more prepared for life after college than most other students.”What’s more, we really earn our grades as opposed to having them given to us.” Davidson must bear in mind the reality of current grading practices in higher education. Those ultimately hurt under Davidson’s current policy—although their work may be comparable to that of students with higher GPAs at other schools, their numbers will not be as impressive. “The grade ‘deflation’ at Davidson hurts us in admissions,” said Harris. “I know for a fact that many prospectives bypass Davidson because they figure a good grade from a place like UNC or Duke would be better in the long run than an average grade from a place like Davidson.”

Students have expressed further frustration with Davidson’s strict grading practices when it comes to applying for jobs, grants, or scholarships that impose specific GPA cutoffs. The prestigious Marshall Scholarships, for example, require a minimum GPA of 3.7. Many study abroad programs through colleges like Arcadia University and Butler University require a 3.0. Students from schools with looser grading standards might have an easier time reaching these numbers, and so gain an advantage. Considerations, however, should not be determinative.

Art professor Herb Jackson admits he understands why any grade deflation at Davidson might strike students as contrived. “Davidson sets out to recruit the best and the brightest,” he said. “All of the people we admit here are, by design, overachievers. And yet when they arrive here, by some strange pattern, we must declare many of them below average. The people Davidson specializes in recruiting aren’t prepared to fail.” And yet he wishes simultaneously that students would not get so worked up over grades. “That’s where grade inflation comes from, this obsession with As,” Jackson continued. “I want to tell students ‘hey, relax.’ Bs don’t mean you’re good or bad. If you get a D the cosmos will still exist.”

Ross reminded discouraged first and second-year students that GPAs tend to go up over the course of four years at Davidson. “As students get into their major and areas they are stronger in they tend to do better,” he said. “Often in introductory courses there is a real range of performance, and GPAs tend to be broader and lower. Ds and Fs surface more rarely in upper-level courses.” As of Jan. 22, the senior class median GPA was a 3.132, notably up from the overall campus 2.83. “We use the whole scale from a 2.3 at the bottom to the rare 4.0,” continued Ross. “A 3.0 is considered good, so the median grade at Davidson is slightly above good. I guess to me that makes sense.”

In any event, it seems that challenging courses and hard-won grades are here to stay—indeed, Davidson might not be Davidson at all without them. “We are much more prepared for life after college than most other students,” commented Harris, noting the benefits of tough grading. “What’s more, we really earn our grades as opposed to having them given to us. This makes it that much more rewarding when we perform well in class.” And perhaps it is in obsessing over GPAs that we miss the very point of what grades attempt to quantify. “I don’t want people to take my course for a grade, but for experience,” concluded Jackson. “I wish grades did not exist. Then we could all settle down to the real business—transferring passion.”

News Editor Lindy Baldwin contributed to this article.

Mexico/Caribbean: $300 round trip plus tax
Europe: $169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000