By MIKE GIGLIO
Sports Editor

Davidson volleyball finished off the last week of the regular season in fitting fashion. The team posted three straight wins
to complete the season with a record of 22-10 overall (15-5 in conference play), marking the fourth time in five
years it has finished with 20 or more wins. This comes after a 15-17 campaign in 2001.

After being swept by Georgia Southern Sunday, the Wildcats bounced back on Wednesday with a much-needed victory over Wofford. In
their final regular season home game of the season, the ‘Cats started strong by taking the first two games of
the match. In game two, Davidson managed a match-high .387 hitting percentage. The Terriers were able to hold strong and
win game three before the Wildcats sealed the victory in game four. Roberta Quis, with sixteen, and Tisha Chapman, with
ten, led the ‘Cats in kills. Julia Hueckel had a game-high fourteen putaways.

Friday’s game at Appalachian State provided more of a challenge for the Wildcats. After dropping the first game 17-30, Davidson
regrouped and notched victories in the second (30-26) and third (30-28) games of the match. App State tied the match
at two games apiece with a 30-28 victory in game four before the Wildcats emerged victorious in the fifth and
deciding game, 15-12. Four ‘Cats finished the match with double-digit kills, with Quis and Chapman putting up twenty and thirteen,
respectively, while Hueckel and Meredith Lorenz each had 11. Nicole Tonelli led the team in assists with sixty-three, and Kaitlyn
Martin again played well on defense with eleven digs.

After sloppy play allowed East Tennessee State to stay close in game one and emerge victorious in game two against
the ‘Cats on the following day, Davidson pulled together to win games three and four as they triumphed in their
final game of the season.

Eron Earley-Thiele
Two Wildcat volleyball players go for the kill on Wednesday against Wofford. Davidson won 3-1, and will open tournament play
Friday.

Quis, Chapman lead team into postseason on hot streak

Quis came through with twenty-three kills and a .459 attack percentage, and Tonelli added fifty-five assists. Martin helped steady the
defense as she tallied eighteen digs. With their success this past week, the Wildcats managed to secure third place in
the Southern Conference headed into the upcoming conference tournament, which will be held in Belk Arena this weekend.

Commented Quis on the team’s success this season, “I am very proud of the way the team performed this year
and finished up the regular season. Attaining third place is very exciting, and it is well deserved.” Rebecca Teichgraeber agrees,
and she is excited about the team’s postseason prospects as well: “I am looking forward to the tournament. We have
a strong chance at winning if we play our best. I’ve been pleased with the season thus far after coming
off of a disappointing one last year. Going to the NCAA tournament my freshman and sophomore years have been my
best volleyball experiences to date, and I hope to earn one more trip.”

Quis and Teichgraeber are among a handful of athletes who have helped determine the fate of the team throughout the
year. Quis led the Wildcats in kills on the year with 417, kills per game with 3.47, and a .353
attack percentage. Tisha Chapman ranks second in each of those categories with 391, 3.26, and .322, respectively. Julia Hueckel (338,
2.84, .251) and Teichgraeber (299, 2.49, .192) follow close behind. Nicole Tonelli had a team-high 1264 assists on the year,
while Teichgraeber and Sophomore Tamara Gallen posted the most digs with 326 and 320, respectively. The middle tandem of Quis
(106) and Chapman (123) also led the team in blocks.

When the Wildcats face off against Appalachian State on Friday at 7:30 p.m. in their first tournament match, they will
rely both on the play of star players and the efforts of a strong supporting cast, as they have all
season, to continue in their quest for an NCAA tournament berth.

Wildcats hope home advantage gives them edge
By MIKE GIGLIO
Sports Editor

After a season in which the Davidson volleyball team bounced back to go 22-10 after falling under the .500 mark
last year, the Wildcats prepare to finish the season in front of the home fans when they host the Southern
Conference Volleyball Tournament this weekend. This year’s competition in Belk Arena marks just the second time in the tournament’s 20-year
history that it will be held at Davidson. The most recent occasion was 1995, when the Wildcats lost in the
first round to a Marshall team that went on to win the championship. The ‘Cats enter the tournament on a
hot streak, having won 12 of their last 14 games and three in a row. Their strong finish earned them
the third seed in the tournament.and a first-round match-up with Appalachian State (15-17, 9-11) at 7:30 p.m. on Friday. The
‘Cats won both matches against the Mountaineers this season, with a 3-1 victory in October and a 3-2 win last
weekend. App State did not make the tournament last year, and their 9-13 road record bodes well for Davidson. But
Wildcat head coach Tim Cowie warns against taking the young and explosive Mountaineer squad lightly. “Appalachian State doesn’t have a
lot of big-name players that everyone recognizes, but they are very well-coached and play like they are experienced,” he said.
“It’s tough to beat a team three times in a season.” The Mountaineers are indeed a young team. After junior
Katherine Dean, their go-to player who averages 3.51 kills per game, the team relies on the play of freshmen Stefanie
Panzer, who led the Mountaineers in hitting percentage, Chrissy Finch, and Kali Rumberger. Appalachian State ranked first in the league
with 2.22 blocks per game. If the deep and balanced Wildcat squad holds off ASU’s upset bid, the team will
likely face College of Charleston, a squad that Cowie feels is the strongest team in the conference. Charleston tied Georgia
Southern for first place in the conference, but the top seed was awarded to Georgia Southern after a coin toss.
“Both Georgia Southern and the College of Charleston are very good,” Cowie says. “But I think Charleston might be playing
the best volleyball of anyone in the conference. They don’t have many weaknesses.” The Cougars have won 19 straight games
and lead the league in hitting percentage and opponent hitting percentage. Setter Mary Sabatino averaged almost 13 assists per game
to go along with a .399 attack percentage. She ranks among the smartest setters in the conference and should be
an exciting player to watch in the tournament. Perhaps the Cougars’ only weakness is a recent history of performing poorly
in tournament play. They have lost in the semi-finals in each of the past two years, with last year’s loss
coming after they were given the top seed. Charleston’s depth, however, remains its strongest asset. “Charleston has a very good
outside, two great middles, and great setters,” Cowie says. “While Georgia Southern really has two or three key players that
you have to shut down, Charleston has five or six.” Shutting down Georgia Southern’s star players will be no easy
task. Martina Veiglova leads the conference with over five kills per game, and Lauren McClain complements her with just over
three. As a team, the Eagles were first in assists, kills, and service aces. Says Cowie on the play of
Veiglova: “She’s good, plain and simple. She’s tough to stop and has traditionally played well in conference tournaments. I’ll be
surprised if she doesn’t play well.” The Wildcats, meanwhile, have plans of their own for the weekend. “We’ve geared it
up this week, and we’ve had some of our most intense practices of the year,” Cowie says. “The season is
a marathon and you’ve got to get to the end and finish in a certain position. We’ve done that, and
now it’s down to one match at a time. If you lose, you’re out. There’s no looking to the next
week or the next match.”

Cowie: Western Carolina, Furman capable of upsets

Perhaps one of the most exciting first-round games will be Friday’s contest between fourth-seeded Furman and fifth-seeded Western Carolina. Furman,
led by senior Abby Simon, handed both the College of Charleston and Georgia Southern one of their two conference losses
on the year (Charleston and Georgia split their season series). The Paladins have a solid middle attack to go along
with the best right side in the conference. The team usually runs a lot of crossing patterns that can prove
difficult to defend. Western Carolina, on the other hand, is a more middle-oriented team. While they are not the most
powerful, the Catamounts work to take teams out of their games. As Cowie puts it, “They get you playing their
game and out of your game and your system.” According to Cowie, “Furman and Western Carolina are two very good
clubs who can beat anyone on any day. They could find themselves in the finals if they can manage an
upset.” East Tennessee State and Chattanooga, the seventh and eighth seeds in the tournament, will look to pull off upsets
of their own as they square off against the top-ranked teams. ETSU will rest its hopes on the play of
freshman Nicole Ryan, who Cowie describes as the heart and soul of their team. Junior Kari Krouse, who will look
to make the All-Conference team for the third straight year, pilots Chattanooga.

--Mike Giglio

“ACT Now! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps
Needed, EARN $$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1-888-THINK-SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626) www.springbreakdiscounts.com”
