Honor Council hosts information sessions, welcomes new members

By AMEE Bak.
Staff Writer

The Honor Council at Davidson is, to many students, a thing of mystery. Is there a secret handshake or do the members wear matching robes? What goes on at the meetings? How do they function? They are an influence in all of our lives, and yet many of us are not sure of what they do.

Fortunately, the Honor Council is planning programs to open up their organization and answer many of the questions students may have. At the top of the list were the elections on Monday. The turnout for the fall was large, with 18 sophomores running for four available spots; eight juniors running for two spots; and seven seniors running for one spot. The interest in the Honor Council speaks volumes about the importance of the organization on Davidson’s campus.

The students elected three new honor council members in yesterday’s Category I elections. Seniors chose David Moscowitz ’03, and the junior class elected Susan Robinson ’04 and Steven Root ’04.

The Honor Council, an organization composed of thirty students, hears cases of Honor Code violations and sentences any found violators. In addition to enforcing the Honor Code on campus, the Honor Council also addresses the more expansive Code of Responsibility.

Soon after the newly elected members have settled into their positions, the Honor Council hopes to distribute an informative questionnaire to the student body. Mary Carpenter ’04, Honor Council secretary, said, “In the next few weeks, we, with the help of SGA, will be conducting a school-wide poll in order to get students’ opinions on the Honor Council and Honor Code and Code of Responsibility issues.” With the facts accumulated from the polls, the Council will plan educational programs for the student body on the Codes and set objectives for the year.

Carpenter said, “One of the Council’s biggest goals is to focus some of our energy on the Code of Responsibility, and on making it more prevalent in and applicable to life on campus.”

The Code of Responsibility, part of the foundation for life at Davidson, is often overlooked by Davidson students. Carpenter said, “Many students don’t realize how important and serious this Code is, and we want to try to change that.”

One way change is being implemented is through cooperative actions with Patterson Court representatives. “A new internal committee aimed at working with Patterson Court houses and members has been created to discuss the role of both the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility on the Court,” said Carpenter. “So many people have misconceptions and miscommunications about the roles that the Codes play on the Court.”

The Honor Council hopes that the changes within the organization will subsequently alter the attitudes of Davidson students, raising awareness of how the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility affect daily life.

Independent SGA Senators

Ryan Inman
Jeff Larrimore
Charles Pierce
Erskine Wells
Marc Vinson
David Pope

First-year SGA Senators

Francois Trappey (class president)
Wiley Becker
Christina Evans
Bridget Kane
Walker Saik
Kathryn Wilson

*Due to an error on the ballot, sophomore Honor Council results will not be available until Wednesday night.

Junior Honor Council

Susan Robinson
Steven Root

Senior Honor Council

David Moscowitz

Court, from page 1

Fraternities and eating houses will have the option of either a full-service kitchen or a warming kitchen. The warming kitchen is designed for houses intending to have food brought in, whereas the full-service kitchen is for houses that hire a chef to cook in the house.

All new kitchens will feature a commercial dishwasher.

The planned renovations will make the houses safer places. More advanced smoke detectors and sprinklers will be installed throughout each house, as well as fire-safety compliant doors. The houses will be hard-wired for the Internet and cable and audio systems, eliminating dangerous loose cables in and out of the buildings.

The school is currently working to make all houses handicapped accessible. Every house will have a men’s and a women’s handicapped accessible restroom, a major upgrade from the current “one-holers” in the dorms. “The bathrooms in the houses are not really adequate for the amount of people there on the weekends; I have noticed some of the grass around them grows particularly well,” said Holthouser, only half-joking.

The tentative renovation timeline is based on the 2001 standards report. Rusk has already submitted its plan for renovation and all the other organizations will submit a plan around Thanksgiving break.

Tentative renovation schedule

Fall 2002
Outpost

Spring 2003
Rusk

Summer 2003
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Kappa Alpha
Connor

Fall 2003
Warner

Spring 2004
Pi Kappa Alpha

Summer 2004
Kappa Sigma
Phi Delta Theta
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Fall 2004
Black Student Coalition

Spring 2005
CoHo

Summer 2005
Turner House

Campus Police BLOTTER

The police blotter will return next week.