Local housing organizations earn recognition

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS Press Release

The Davidson Housing Coalition (DHC) and its partner organizations, The Affordable Housing Group (TAHG) and the Town of Davidson, have
been honored by the Fannie Mae Foundation among six winners of its national Maxwell Award of Excellence for Affordable Housing.
The award, which carries a $50,000 grant, recognizes efforts to maintain affordable housing in urban neighborhoods, metropolitan communities, small cities,
and rural areas. This is the first time a North Carolina housing organization has ever won the Maxwell Award.

The DHC’s Marguerite Williams said it is a humbling honor for the relatively young organization to have been chosen by
the foundation as a winner among so many other long-established affordable housing groups. She said, “This sudden recognition links us
to a wonderful network of new friends across the country we can call on when we face challenges, and it
gives us credibility when we seek support for future projects from donors and lenders.” She also gave credit for the
success of the project to the people of Davidson. “One of the reasons we’ve been successful is because so many
citizens believe in affordable housing as a core value. We haven’t had to spend our energy persuading people that it’s
a good thing. They already know that, and are eager to support and participate in our work.”

The award was presented to representatives of the three groups in a ceremony at the foundation’s Washington, D.C., headquarters on
March 5. The DHC was represented by its president, Marguerite Williams. Mayor Randy Kincaid represented the town, and Executive Director
Dean Edwards represented TAHG. The local coalition won for the design of their 32-unit rental housing project on Jetton Street
in Davidson named “The Bungalows.” Opened in November 2000, The Bungalows is the first affordable rental complex built in Davidson
in more than 20 years, and serves families with income up to fifty percent of the area median income (Mecklenburg
County’s Area Median Income is $64,000).

She also thanked town officials for municipal support of the project, which included the donation of the land and sidewalks.
“Our town board (of which she is a member) recognizes the importance of maintaining socioeconomic diversity. We believe in Davidson
as a self-sustaining community where all citizens are important contributors, and don’t want to neglectfully allow the suburbanization of this
area to force out lower-income residents.”

When the DHC began to plan for The Bungalows, it sought a partnership with TAHG in order to meet a
state requirement that developers must have built 120 units to qualify for tax credit funding. Whereas DHC had built no
units at that point, the 35-year-old TAHG had built several thousand in working statewide with other affordable housing organizations on
such matters as funding, board development, education, programming, mission and vision statements, and project construction.

The partnering organizations planned The Bungalows as an opportunity to redefine affordable rental housing in Davidson. A few people worried
that the project would destroy property values and ruin the neighborhood aesthetic. Instead, The Bungalows’ careful design by Davidson architect
John Burgess and quality craftsmanship by Crosland Builders have been warmly received by neighbors, and it has prompted a wave
of other improvements in its area of town.$1.9 million of the $2.5 million cost of The Bungalows came from tax
credit funding. Other funding came from the NC Housing Finance Agency, local churches and other donors, loans, and the in-kind
gifts of The Town of Davidson. The local lender was First Charter Bank. The DHC has also received significant grants
from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation and the Warner Foundation.

“The partnering organizations have addressed a critical need, and have made an invaluable contribution to affordable housing in Davidson,” said
Stacey Davis, president and CEO of the Fannie Mae Foundation. “It is important that we share their successes so that
these projects may inspire and help improve other community development efforts.”

The DHC is currently building 10 homes for land-lease sale to qualified buyers in the new Deer Park development in
Davidson. Davidson College has also donated properties in the Ralph Johnson estate around Mock Circle and Sloan Street, which the
DHC plans to use for construction of about 11 rental and land-lease sale units.

The Fannie Mae Foundation, a private nonprofit organization supported solely by Fannie Mae, creates affordable homeownership and housing opportunities through
innovative partnerships and initiatives. It has bestowed the Maxwell Awards since 1988 in honor of former Fannie Mae chairman and
CEO David O. Maxwell, in recognition of commitment to the housing needs of low-income families.

Speas, from page 1

I found the panels interesting. I even heard several panelists commenting about the success of the undergraduate forum. I think
many people are looking forward to another forum next year.

Founded in the spring of 2001, the Davidson College Bioethics Society also strives to “provide students with resources needed for
conducting research on medical ethics-related issues, and to be a source of information for students interested in pursuing a bioethics-related
field.” This focus on awareness of bioethical issues is accomplished through debates, lectures, and other events such as the Pre-Conference
Workshop.

President Michelle Lim ’02 founded the society after attending a student-led bioethics workshop at Princeton University. Wanting to organize a
similar student event at Davidson, she advocated the participation of the newly formed Bioethics Society in the annual Speas Colloquium.
Dr. Lance Stell, chair of Davidson’s Medical Humanities program, enthusiastically praised the society’s work. “They have been ambitious in their
activities and plans.... The fact that students are taking an interest in bioethics education outside of class is terrific.”

The society took part in planning the event and invited students from around the area to attend at no cost.
The general public was also invited. Davidson’s Speas Symposium was founded in 1986 with the goal of assessing difficult and
intricate issues dealing with healthcare in today’s society.

Cover your putts better yet, help cover your [tuition]. College can mean maneuvering through a lot of different obstacles, but
tuition payments shouldn’t be one of them. In Army ROTC, you'll have a shot at a scholarship worth thousands, and
make friends you can count on. Talk to an Army ROTC advisor today. We've got you covered.

ARMY ROTC unlike any other college course you can take. For scholarships and enrollment information visit CPT Leslie.

Work in Davidson This Summer

Summer Employment in The Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer workers. Positions are available in all departments. Contact Jean Coates, Library
Circulation Office at #7 Jackson Circle or call (704) 892-2165.
