By Ros Hemrick
Staff Writer

As first-year and transfer students settle into their lives as members of the Davidson community, they already have one rite of passage under their belts.

“It was a lot,” says first-year student Sean Sonni. “It wasn’t so much that the events were bad, it was how many there were in such a short time.” He explains that perhaps if the required portions of the ordeal were “spread out over a week” rather than packed into a single weekend, students would have found it more manageable.

New Student Orientation, an annual program for students entering the college, took place from Wednesday, Aug. 21, to Sunday, Aug. 25, and included events designed to introduce the students to the college and to one another. In addition to moving in and meeting room and hall mates, new students were encouraged and, in some cases, required to attend events such as lectures on safety at Davidson, tours of the library, book discussions, and meetings on spiritual life and technology services.

In the wake of this collective experience comes inevitable backlash. “I felt like a baby duck,” says Cory Maluski ‘06, explaining his aggravation over the tightly scheduled nature of the program. Several students were similarly upset over the regimentation and careful structuring of each event. Others disagree, pointing out that some structure is necessary for students to adapt to their new environment.

Cory Maluski ‘06 cites the service project as his favorite aspect. The projects, which took place on Saturday morning, included tasks such as loading 40,000 pounds of potatoes into bags and trucks for distribution, collecting food from local neighborhoods, and making hundreds of sandwiches in an effort to feed poverty-stricken members of the surrounding community. Other students relayed their admiration for the Honor Code Commitment Ceremony, arguably the most important aspect of the experience, which took place the final evening of the program. At this event, all new students became official members of the Davidson community through their respective pledges to uphold Davidson’s most revered tradition.

Intermingled with the energy and enthusiasm that comes with the new students arriving on campus is a discussion regarding the backgrounds of the class of 2006. Last year, Davidson enrolled a record number of students coming from ethnically diverse backgrounds — 19% of the entering class of 2005 was composed of students describing themselves as African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and international students, according to Davidson’s website. This year, numbers fall sharply below this mark. College president Bobby Vagt responds to this trend, “Cultural and ethnic diversity in terms of the admitted class is less than last year, and that’s something about which we need to redouble our efforts.”

As a whole, Vagt considers this year’s Orientation a success, due in no small part to the support and enthusiasm of the parents of incoming students. “Parents were as engaged as I’ve ever seen them,” he said. “I mean, they were all over this thing. I think it’s great.”

The students may not all be in agreement as to the overall effectiveness of the Orientation program, but many said they feel more welcome and acquainted with the campus, the school, and each other than they had prior to arriving here. Vagt is enthusiastic about the first-year students and their futures at Davidson. “As you look at the accomplishments of each class, you say, ‘Wow. How can it get any better?’ And the fact of the matter is, it does every year. It’s another extraordinary class.”

Summer reading gets new students talking
Freshmen discuss book about life on the American poverty line

By Amee Patel
Staff Writer

When UNC Chapel Hill assigned portions of the Qur’an as summer reading assignments, a legal and political battle engulfed the campus. Here at Davidson, the class of 2006 encountered far less controversy over their summer reading, Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich. Documenting one journalist’s experience working various minimum wage jobs around the country, Nickel and Dimed aims to provide a complete picture of poverty in the working class of America.

While still in the midst of Orientation, the new students gave their insight on the issue of the working poor through small group book discussions. Many found the discussion rewarding and perceptive. Will Scheffers of Gaborone, Botswana says, “The discussion gave a taste of what is expected of us at Davidson. You have to think for yourself and not rely on a professor or other students. It really helped me prepare for how work will be here.” The small group discussions, which were led by faculty and assisted by returning students,Dents encompassed several of the issues of "Nickel and Dimed." The feasibility of living comfortably on a minimum wage salary was consistently brought up. Ehrenreich’s investigation proves that the “American dream” of economic success through hard work is not as attainable as one would hope. She discovers that “the poorer [the working poor] are, the more constrained their mobility usually is.” Along with this constraint, Ehrenreich fights to keep her dignity in a world determined to outcast her poverty-level jobs. She concludes, “If you’re made to feel unworthy enough, you may come to think that what you’re paid is what you are actually worth.”

The class of 2006 felt the impact of this lesson in their lives. Many students found a new respect for Wal-Mart employees, hotel maids, waitresses, and other professions. As Courtney Valiga from Philadelphia admits, “After reading 'Nickel and Dimed,' I have become more friendly to people I would usually walk by without even noticing.”

Another issue brought up in the discussion groups was the credibility of Ehrenreich’s experiment. Valiga asks, “Is it possible for the wealthy to pretend to be poor as Ehrenreich did? Of course not, because they can always drop everything and return to their normal lives.” Valiga, along with many first-year students, was skeptical of Ehrenreich’s experiment and found that her strong personality detracted from the focus of the book. But Ehrenreich’s evaluation surpasses her budget or ego troubles. She writes, “The problem goes beyond my personal failings and miscalculations. Something is wrong, very wrong, when a single person in good health, a person who in addition possesses a working car, can barely support herself by the sweat of her brow. You don’t need a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents too high.”

While the new class debated many of the issues in the book, the concepts of hard work and social inequity were clearly illuminated. As Scheffers warns, “Don’t trust statistics that you may read. There are many that say that you can make ends meet with only one job. But obviously this is not true.”

Photo by College Communications: Professor Jeanne O'Neill leads a discussion group.

---

Weather’s cooler, but College still deemed ‘hot’

By Julie Gorf
Staff Writer

It’s not every day that a small liberal arts college from the Southeast makes national headlines. But Davidson did last week, after the 2003 Kaplan/Newsweek guidebook “How to Get Into College” selected Davidson as one of America’s “12 Hottest Colleges.” According to the publication, Davidson ranks among schools “drawing raves” in the fall admission process of high school seniors. How come? According to a spokesperson from Kaplan, the national research firm heading the quest for these exclusive 12, this year's schools are “hidden treasures that parents and students should take a look at in addition to all the name-brand schools.”

Those on the inside of Davidson are honored, but still a little puzzled. President Bobby Vagt agrees that at the very least, this gives the college good press. “It’s one of those things that you hear and want to roll your eyes and say ‘What’s the substance behind this?’ On the other hand, it gets Davidson as a name and place in front of a lot of people, so you can’t say ‘Who cares?’”

The guidebook notes that Davidson is attracting more students outside the Southeast region with its “bucolic North Carolina campus.” Of course, admission applicants are also lured by the quality pre-med program and the unique combination of competitive Division I sports at a small liberal-arts college. Because Davidson is one of the smallest Division I schools, 25% of the student body plays one of 21 varsity sports.

According to the publication, applicants looking to round out Davidson’s liberal-arts student population take interest in the strong music and art departments, which both have new facilities and quality resources. Intimate performance halls in the newly opened Sloan Music Center and private art studios in Belk Visual Arts Center are just some perks hopeful applicants can look forward to. In addition to strong academics, sports, and facilities, Kaplan/Newsweek highlights the “small-town atmosphere and the fact that it’s easy to get involved in social activities and community service” as further support of Davidson’s national appeal to college-bound high schoolers.

In the words of prospective student Holly McHugh of Randolph, NJ, Davidson is appealing to her because “it offers students a nice blend of academics, Division I sports, and service opportunities in ministry.”

The other colleges and universities which complete this year’s “hottest 12” include big, small, public, private, urban, and rural institutions: Arizona State, Boston College, UC - Santa Barbara, George Washington University, Kenyon College, Macalester College, University of Maryland-Baltimore County, McGill University, UNC Chapel Hill, Pepperdine, and the University of Washington at Seattle.