2 THE DAVIDSONIAN - WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2002

Tennis teams wrap up regular season, prepare for SoCon

Men focus on developing young line-up

photo by Erin Berry
Chad Winebarger, No. 1 singles, launches a serve.

Best of the decade: Women go 17-5 overall

By AMANDA MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

Posting its best record in ten years, the women’s tennis team defeated Georgia Southern 6-1 to improve to 16-5 overall,
and 6-2 in the conference. A tough loss to the College of Charleston dropped them back to 17-5 and 6-3.

In the Georgia Southern match-up on April 13, the Wildcats dominated from the beginning, sweeping the matches in the doubles
competition. Freshmen twins Meghan and Kelly Fillnow teamed up to beat Amy Bartlett and Callie Ward, 8-4. The combination of
freshman Meggie Patterson and sophomore Katherine Hatch proved deadly as they beat Charlotte Bruneteaux and Brooke McNamee, 8-4, while senior
captain Kelley Cantrell and junior captain Yasamina Hilu defeated Sally Williams and Sarah Iqbal, 8-5.

Despite losing the doubles point, the Eagles bounced back in the singles competition. Bartlett defeated Kelly Fillnow, 6-4, 2-6, 6-2
to tie the game. However, the Wildcats would not allow the Eagles to get any closer, as they dominated the
other matches. Patterson defeated Iqbal, 6-1, 6-1, while Meghan Fillnow pulled out a win over McNamee, 3-6, 6-4 (10-6). Cantrell
proved too strong for Bruneteaux, winning the match 6-4, 6-1, while Hilu snuck by GSU’s Ward, 6-3, 6-4. Finally, Hatch
sealed the win with a crushing 6-1, 6-1 win over Williams.

On April 14, the Wildcats returned to action, taking on a tough College of Charleston team. The Wildcats came out
strong, winning the doubles point 2-1. The Cougars’ Marcella Valkenhoff and Gabriella Moreira defeated the Fillnow duo, 8-6, but Hatch
and Patterson bounced back for the Wildcats to defeat Rachel Magory and Maike Harting, 8-5. Hilu and Cantrell cinched the
point with their crushing 8-0 win over Whitney Malina and Emily Scatuorchio.

Moving into singles action, Magory came back from her doubles loss to defeat Kelly Fillnow, 6-2, 6-4. The Wildcats would
pull back ahead with a Patterson win over Moreira, 7-5, 6-4. However, the ’Cats would not see the lead again
as the Cougars came away with the last four points. Valkenhoff defeated Meghan Fillnow, 6-4, 6-1, while Malina pulled away
from Cantrell, 7-5, 6-4. Harting delivered a crushing blow to Hilu, 6-1, 6-0, while Scatuorchio easily overcame Hatch, 6-2, 6-2.

Coach Caroline Price explains, “They competed well. [It was an] exciting match and atmosphere in Charleston; we just came up
a little short. [However,] we get another shot with the Conference Tournament.”

The Wildcats' last regular season match is on April 16 at UNC-Charlotte. The Wildcats will then move on to the
Southern Conference Championships from April 18-21, where they hope to earn an NCAA berth.

By JONATHAN CROOMS
Staff Writer

Over the weekend, the Davidson men’s tennis team wrapped up its regular season with a home win against Virginia Military
Institute and an away loss against 66th nationally ranked Furman University. The matches marked the end of a long and
challenging season for the young Davidson squad.

Last Friday, the Wildcats defeated the Keydets 6-1 on Senior Day to send senior co-captains Chad Winebarger ’02 and David
Webb ’02 out victorious. The team had no trouble in the doubles matches. At number one doubles, Winebarger and Rob
Gould ’04 won easily over Brian Ahmes and Tom Huffman 8-2, while Webb and Bryan Stonestreet ’04 de-feated Ted Nevatt
and Slobodan Stipic 8-5 at number two doubles. Jonathan Britt '04 and Geoff Mullen '03 won by default at number
three doubles. The Wildcats experienced little resistance in singles, dropping only one match. At number one singles, Winebarger defeated Huffman
6-1, 6-3. Rob Haywood '04 emerged victorious over Ahmes 7-5, 6-4 at number three singles. At number four singles, Britt
defeated Nevatt 6-2, 6-0, while Donald Miles '05 blanked Wes Tatum 6-0, 6-0 at number five singles. Mullen was awarded
a victory by default at number six singles. The only loss of the match came at number two singles, where
Stipic defeated Webb 6-0, 6-0.

On Sunday, the squad was blanked 7-0 by an older, more experienced Paladin team, which marked the end of a
tough regular season schedule. Despite two close doubles matches, the Wildcats were unable to pull out the doubles point. James
Cameron and John Chesworth defeated Haywood and Miles at number one doubles, while Winebarger and Gould lost 8-6 to Peter
Netzler and Andrew Rogers at number two doubles. At number three doubles, Chris Henderson and Allen Simmons defeated Britt and
Mullen 9-8 (5).

The Wildcats did not experience much better luck in the singles, as Furman did not drop a set in any
match. At number one singles, Winebarger lost his match 6-2, 6-4 to Chesworth. Cameron defeated Webb 6-1, 6-0 at number
two singles, while Haywood lost 6-2, 6-3 to Henderson at number three singles. At number four singles, Britt could not
pull out the second set, as he fell 6-2, 6-4 to Patrick Gaughn. Miles lost his match 6-1, 6-1 to
Patrick Fillnow at number five singles. Despite two close sets, Mullen also fell 6-4, 6-3 to Ryan McCarthy.

Throughout the course of the season, the Wildcats struggled against stronger Conference USA and Ivy League opponents, but these matches
have made the team stronger and more determined to improve. The Wildcats have gained vast amounts of experience from the
season, which has resulted in the development of its younger players, starting in the line-up for the first time. The
team looks to carry their garnered experience into the Southern Conference Tournament, which begins on Thursday in Charleston, SC. In
anticipation of the Southern Conference tournament, Gould commented, "Hopefully, we can take something out of these matches and see improvements
in the conference tournament." The team’s hard work and effort will be more visible in seasons to come if not
in the upcoming conference tournament. The Wildcats possess a great deal of talent and potential, which is only beginning to
show.

At the close of the season, the team compiled an 11-12 regular season record and a 4-6 Southern Conference record.
This week, the Wildcats will prepare for the Southern Conference Tournament in which they will likely face VMI or Wofford
in the first round.

Photo by Erin Berry

THE WEEK AHEAD:

BASEBALL
Apr. 20 Western Carolina (2) 12:00
Apr. 21 Western Carolina 1:00

GOLF
Apr. 19-21 Southern Conference Championship @ Furman University

TRACK & FIELD
Apr. 18-20 Southern Conference Outdoor Championships, Johnson City, TN

LACROSSE
Apr. 19 @ Penn State 4:00
Apr. 20 @ Northwestern 2:00

MEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 18-21 Southern Conference Tournament, Charleston SC

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 18-21 Southern Conference Championships in Charleston, SC

Inspirational Quote of the Week:
“Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.” - Confucius

Kelly Fillnow, one half of the dynamic freshman duo.
