By 2 Editorial

Many of us chose Davidson because of the worry-free atmosphere and lack of crime that exists because of the Honor Code. We find it assuring to know that we can leave our stuff lying around in our dormitories, in the library, and in the Union where it will not be stolen or purposely damaged. But while the Honor Code is sacred around Chambers Building, it is a stranger north of Dorm Row. In fact, it seems that what little of the Honor Code is practiced on Patterson Court is done so only because we fear the consequences. We don’t use fake IDs to get into the basement because we know that our houses will suffer if we are caught. We don’t lie about the number of people who are at a weekday party because surely the cops will count when (not if) they arrive.

But the recent wave of vandalism that has struck several houses has caused many, especially those involved in the Court, to wonder why the Honor Code feels so out of place there. The most obvious answer is alcohol. It lowers inhibitions and causes otherwise well-mannered individuals to act in peculiar and often vicious ways. But, nevertheless, it is not and never will be a sufficient excuse for destructive behavior.

Over $1,000 worth of damage occurred on the Court last weekend, and so far, not all of the involved parties have come forward. As Davidson students, we value our opportunity to self-govern. The Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility should be enough to regulate individuals’ and groups’ actions. When it is not, we have J-Board and the Honor Council, among others, to uphold our high standards. These bodies can only function when we, as students, fulfill our end of the bargain. When we make mistakes, it is our responsibility to admit to them. When our friends make mistakes, it is our responsibility to come forward with information. Loyalty to friends is important, but loyalty to the systems that order our community is more crucial.

The administration has the option of handing the vandalism investigation over to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg or Davidson police. We, as students, need to make sure that this does not happen by doing what we can to identify responsible people. When the Honor Code fails, the damage to the community exceeds far more than a damaged kitchen and messed-up pool table.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Timothy Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh
Gavin Weber

Sports Editor
Caroline Hauser

Photography Editors
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore
Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR
JOFFREY STILL TRYING TO ENTICE YOU BY PLAYING HARD-TO-GET?
YOU WANT TO FIELD THAT ONE, NIGHTER NIGHTERIAS?
WELL, NON-SEQUITUR.COM.

Against last week’s vandalism

Last Wednesday night at about 4 a.m., my eating house, CoHo, was vandalized, as were Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Rusk, and Turner. Of these, SPE and Rusk were apparently hit the hardest. As I understand it, the mess was so bad that both houses opted to pay Physical Plant to clean up. The fate suffered by SPE’s pool table does not bear mentioning. At least at CoHo, a few dedicated members were able to get the mess up. In addition to spreading food all over all of the houses and destroying at least one pool table, $100 worth of food was stolen from my house alone (not counting the wasted food). Technically, it was stolen from everyone in CoHo.

In my four years at Davidson, I’ve heard of some pretty infantile pranks. I’ve seen the aftermath of a few. This, however, takes the cake. Let me first say that I am thoroughly disappointed that such a group of degenerates somehow managed to slip through the admissions process. I’m curious — did any of you read the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility, or did you just sign it? Well, let me bring you up to speed: theft is not only against North Carolina law; it’s against the Honor Code. Your actions went beyond the limits of normal pranks — actions that might be annoying, but can be ignored — and crossed the line into illegality. Additionally, your actions are an affront to the community of which you claim to be a part. I don’t care if you are fraternity pledges or independents. The only thing that matters is that you made a promise to this community that you haveFailed to keep. As if causing mayhem in our kitchen wasn’t enough, you walked off with some of my house’s food. Considering the maturity you displayed, I’m surprised you didn’t walk off with some furniture. I suppose you would have thought of that as real stealing. Well, here’s your ticket to the clue bus, gentlemen: taking things from other people, whether it’s ketchup or a couch, is stealing. Destruction of property is just as bad; what are you going to do next, key cars? I’m waiting for the truth to come out about this, and when it does, I expect any potentially involved fraternities to publicly state that this sort of behavior isn’t encouraged or condoned. If it’s not, I’d love to know where these kids got the idea that it’s cool to deface that which others cherish and work for. As for the perpetrators, I’d ask that you come forward, come clean, and accept your punishment. Even though your actions were not the “Davidson” thing to do, being honest about it in the aftermath certainly is.

Nikki Thomas ‘02

Retraction and apology for Sig Ep party title

On Valentine’s Day, the campus-wide e-mail social calendar advertised the Sigma Phi Epsilon party, “One Night in Bangkok, Me Love You Long Time,” to take place on Feb. 16. As president of Sig Ep, I'd like to apologize to the whole Davidson community for a party title that was uncalled for and horribly offensive. Saturday night’s party was supposed to be our house’s mid-winter semi-formal, and traditionally our pledge class works with the house social chairs to create a theme, then register and organize the party. The second line of the party’s title was submitted to the social calendar organizers by the pledge class social chair on a whim. He did not realize the offensiveness of the title at the time, but I think therein lies the rub. Davidson’s students come from widely diverse backgrounds—whether they’re socially, religiously, ethnically, or racially different. The fact that one individual fails to see the insult in what he deems humorous should indeed turn heads and call for awareness. I feel extremely sorry that the insensitivity contained in the party’s title must be placed on our house, and seek to reassure the community that our brotherhood feels awful about the incident. The Sig Ep house and its pledge class have discussed the matter and its significance, and I hope our members can again gain respect from those insulted or disturbed by the e-mail. Please accept my apology for what it is, and feel free to contact me with any further questions or concerns at x6152.

Jimmy Swansbrough ’03
President, Sigma Phi Epsilon

In praise of Davidson men

Will Hale and Hunter Bick raised an excellent point in their letter last week — while Davidson students love to complain about grades/homework/the administration/athletics, etc., we rarely hear any words of praise for our College. Inspired partly by their observation, and partly by something I saw on Wednesday night, I would like to write one of those rarely-seen positive letters — in praise of Davidson’s guys.

Year after year there are usually complaints about attendance at Rape Awareness Week. I agree that the entire college should probably make more of an effort to be at these important events — especially Take Back the Night. But, to put things in perspective — my best friend Michelle is a student at Southern California in Los Angeles and a regular speaker at Take Back the Night. Year after year, she tells me, she gets up to tell her story to over 100 women — but only a couple dozen guys. And this from a campus of 30,000 students! On Wednesday night, by contrast, Davidson men filled almost half the chairs in the audience. I saw fraternity presidents, athletes, SGA members, and writers sitting in the audience, listening to the stories with attention and compassion. It was the men who first rose in a standing ovation for Amanda Mordavsky ’02, chair of the Rape Awareness Committee. After she was done, the guys made their way to the front to hug the speakers, and joined the crowd at the Union to tie ribbons on a tree and honor the victims of sexual assault.

The men on this campus seem to take a lot of general grief for not knowing how to ask girls out, or for not knowing how to buy Valentine’s gifts, or being too aggressive, or too arrogant, or too devoted to schoolwork. But guys — those of us who saw you at Take Back the Night know the truth about Davidson men.

Lindy Baldwin ‘04