Staff Editorial

How much would you pay to see Dave Matthews at Davidson next spring? $40? $50? What about $150,000? That’s how
much the school might have to shell out if Matthews decides to play here. And keep in mind that we’d
only get the “Dave Matthews” part of the “Dave Matthews Band.” If we’re lucky, a guitarist might come too.

To be fair, nobody here has actually confirmed that we’re offering Matthews that much money. But the Union Board has
said that our offer is “competitive” with what other schools will pay: according to numbers found on Dave Matthews websites,
as much as $150,000. We all know the school paid a lot for the RSC last year, and apparently quite
a lot: the exact number is kept top-secret. But that makes sense. The Royal Shakespeare Company has significant educational and
cultural value. And last time we checked, you couldn’t see them at Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre in Charlotte every summer.

First of all, let’s be clear: we love having big names play at Davidson. Last spring, Ludacris played Belk Arena
for about $40,000, and John Mayer appeared earlier this year for about $52,000. It’s probably fair to say that Dave
Matthews is an even bigger draw. 150 thousand dollars is a staggering figure, even if it’s only a possibility, and
it deserves some explanation to the students. And of course, the point of selling concert tickets is to recoup most
of the initial outlay. Dave Matthews consistently ranks at the top of student concert requests. So we’re excited that the
Concert Committee has taken students’ suggestions and is acting on it. But $150,000 is a staggering figure, even if it’s
only a possibility, and it deserves some explanation to the students.

Would Davidson end up losing money on the event? Will paying a music act such a huge amount of money
take away from other worthy endeavors, like scholarship funds or teaching positions? We're not suggesting that the school shouldn’t spend
money — even lots of it — on fun events like concerts. But when the costs skyrocket, maybe the student
body should be part of the discussion about how much is too much. Especially when the band isn’t even part
of the deal.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Colin Eagan
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Emily Drew
Caroline Hauser

Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Chris Schmader

Sports Editors
Richard Connolly
Mike Giglio

Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore
Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa

Web Editor
Anders Langworthy

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR - BLATTER

ONLY IN BLIRER BLATE

BLATHER BLATHER

EEK! NOW OKRE SUCH AN ARROGANT POSITION! DON'T YOU JUST LOVE THE INTELLECTUAL GENIUS OF

Professor questions analysis of poll data

In his article on the survey that examines parallels between “race” and major (News, Nov. 13), Rob Heidrick does a
good job doing what so many journalists do well: he turns survey data into received truth. The results of a
survey taken by Professor Sellers’ “Public Opinion” students gets a big graph, implying patterns and trends that may not even
exist.

To Heidrick’s credit, he quotes Sellers on just that point: the sample is not large enough; no firm conclusions are
possible. Nevertheless, most readers will leave the article with the graph in mind and the list of those two oh-so-black
majors and the four oh-so-white majors, one of which is German. If one goes by majors, German has had an
all-white class of majors for years. But were Sellers’ students asking the right questions? Do numbers of minorities graduating with
a major tell the proper story? I think not. The statistics we get in The Davidsonian misrepresent, in the case
of the German program at Davidson at least, the truth with respect to student participation. How about these statistics: percentage
of African-American students receiving Fulbright grants to Austria lastyear: 50 (one of two). Percentage of African-American students studying on our
JYA program in Würzburg this year: 11 (one of nine). About one in 10 Davidson participants in study abroad programs
in Germany is a minority. One of those recently minored in German and received a Fulbright grant to Austria, a
rare and high distinction; that student plans to go on in German studies in graduate school next year. I believe
our minority participation numbers are more like those of other departments here. Sure the numbers are small (and thus counting
at all seems somehow odd), but we are pleased with our record. Heidrick is right about one thing though, and
he puts it well: “Davidson lacks diversity, and incomplete diversity means an incomplete college experience.”

Scott Denham
Professor of German

Aside from its status as a highly selective liberal arts college, Davidson prides itself on the character of its students
in addition to their academic and athletic successes. In theory, all colleges should look for such well-rounded students. Unfortunately, most
do not. It appears that many applicants are unfairly evaluated on both standardized test scores and family status. A typical
requirement for admittance into a highly reputable college is high scores on standardized tests. This is perhaps the most ambiguous
assessment of a student’s intelligence available. Whereas grade point averages usually indicate a student’s work ethic, the standardized test scores
seem to indicate which students spent more time with tutors or in classes aimed at the standardized tests. This enables
students who have sufficient time and money to have an unfair advantage over those who do not have such opportunities.
Thus, students are evaluated according to how well they have been taught to learn the patterns and particular information on
the test. These strategy sessions defeat the purpose of the standardized test in the first place; these tests are intended
to level the playing field to ensure an unbiased and fair assessment of a student’s aptitude. Moreover, the student who
is able to spend time and money retaking such tests has a trial and error system. Obviously, SATs and ACTs
are more important than any type of sport or extracurricular activity, specifically ones that hold competitions on Saturday mornings. They
are not, however, more important than a student’s dedication to his or her particular team. A student who continually abandons
his or her team is essentially abandoning the commitment to the team and thus violates principles that are an integral
part of success at college: dedication, selflessness, and responsibility.

The second and maybe most disgusting aspect of the admissions process is the evaluation of a student’s family status. With
society demanding diversity on campuses nationwide, colleges often admit students of a particular gender or race while completely abandoning the
concept that the best candidate should get the position. In addition to this bias in admissions, colleges also evaluate a
family’s financial situation. It is appalling that the top universities in the country are willing to admit unqualified students merely
because their family donated some ridiculous amount of money to finance a new building on campus. By admitting these wealthy
students, colleges may also claim that they meet more of the financial need of incoming students because it is consequently
very low. Additionally, a family legacy nearly ensures any student a spot in the freshman class. What a disadvantage this
poses to hardworking students who may be the first generation in the family to go for a college education. It
appears as if misrepresentations of intelligence in accordance with wealth equate to success in the world of collegiate admissions. Even
if such schools are not permitting politics to dominate their admissions process, they seem to seek raw numbers instead of
students characterized by integrity and principles. Davidson College should be proud of its avoidance of such pitfalls, and hopefully other
universities will follow suit.

Joe Taylor ‘06
