__The Davidsonian__

Athletes call Division I status important

By Nicole Tonelli and Robert Koch
Student-Athletic Advisory Council Members

If you think that Davidson’s “losing” Division I teams detract from the attractiveness of the college as a whole, think again. Switching to Division III would not improve the overall athletic experience at Davidson. Sophomore Chris Wrobleski notes, “I personally would not have come to Davidson if it was Division III... the reason I chose Davidson was because of the combination of superior academics and Division I athletics.” Excellence in both academics and Division I athletics, for many students, is what Davidson is all about.

Davidson, as a whole, concentrates on the overall college experience and provides all students with a balance between the classroom, athletic field, or social arena. When students apply to Davidson, admissions looks at the “whole student” rather than basic SAT scores or GPA. Factors such as leadership ability, community service, and extracurricular activities come into play. Most students are extremely active in a range of activities, which is apparent in the quarter of the student body that participates in Division I athletics.

With such a broad range of options available to students, freshmen through seniors develop a different definition of success. One might automatically think of the humbling grades in classes or re-adjusting their social persona, but athletes develop a different outlook on “ultimate” success. Similar to a majority of Division I colleges, we do not define success by simply winning a national championship. Sports Illustrated’s #1 ranked Texas and #2 ranked Stanford will win a number of national championships each year, but most colleges and universities will never experience this accomplishment. If success is defined by a national championship, then there is only one successful Division I team in each sport, every year.

Although Davidson’s athletes are not winning national championships, we are being recognized for comparable success. Looking closer at the USA Today NCAA Academic Achievement Award, that recently honored Davidson, one discovers that it is more than a meaningless certificate. Jim Murphy, director of athletics, commented in an article regarding this award, “In many ways, earning this award is like winning a national championship in one of our sports, since it signifies reaching one of our highest goals. This award is a reflection of the dedication of our students as well as the quality of our faculty, and we are extremely proud of both.”

The Kaplan/Newsweek article, “This Year’s Hot Colleges,” explains that, “athletics have really helped boost the school’s visibility.” This is due to Davidson’s unique status as a liberal-arts college with Division I athletics. As one of the smallest Division I schools, and being a top-ranked liberal-arts college, Davidson is a step above all the other Division III liberal-arts colleges. Essentially, Davidson can be considered one of the best options for an exceptional balance of academics and Division I athletics.

The Sports Illustrated special report “America’s Best Sports Colleges” supports this positive image of Davidson’s Division I athletics. Granted, four Southern Conference teams are above Davidson in the rankings, but seven other Southern Conference teams failed to even make the top 200. The simple truth exists that Davidson is competing at the Division I level. For example, men’s and women’s soccer teams are ranked #2 and #3 respectively in the Southern Conference. The golf team recently won the Sea Trail Men’s Intercollegiate Golf Tournament in Sunset Beach, N.C., which was their first tournament win in history. Just two years ago, football had an impressive 10-0 season. In the same year, the swimming and diving teams moved up to the Colonial Athletic Association in search of superior competition. In 1999, the volleyball team was undefeated in the Southern Conference, giving birth to their first of two visits to the NCAA tournament.

Clearly, Davidson teams are successful in conference play, but according to Sports Illustrated, we are ranked above 40% of Division I schools. We play teams that are ranked above us and continue to succeed, time and time again. We all know how the men’s soccer team beat top-ranked UNC Chapel Hill and South Carolina, but it would be closed-minded to ignore the successes of other Davidson teams simply based on the final score. It is common knowledge among athletes that simple numbers do not tell the whole story. Earlier this year, the women’s soccer team took on #13 Wake Forest. During this game, Davidson made the first goal and the score was tied at one at halftime. Field hockey also just held #1 ranked Maryland to only three first-half goals and a scoreless second half. The Wildcats proved that they contend with ranked teams.

Davidson student-athletes thrive on challenges. As sophomore Jenny Hoekstra points out, “We’re here for tough competition at the elite level, whether our overall record is 40% or not. Davidson students like challenges — that’s why we’re here.” The bottom line remains, nothing compares to competing at the Division I level, not even a Division III winning record or national championship.

Davidson students, athletes included, are here for the balance and range of all the experiences that a liberal-arts college can offer. Our Division I status sets us above most other liberal-arts schools and, in turn, increases our appeal to prospective students. Davidson students are driven to succeed, and they rise to the occasion. Davidson student-athletes are no exception. Changing our athletics to Division III would only lower our standards and diminish the significance of our growing success. Davidson student-athletes find the most meaningful success in Division I athletics.

__BE PART OF THE TEAM!__
WRITE FOR SPORTS.

RICHARD CONNOLLY (RICONNOLLY@DAVIDSON.EDU)
MIKE GIGLIO (MIGIGLIO@DAVIDSON.EDU)