sonian

A LIBERTAS @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 2002

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 19

NCAA Tournament Special Edition

Go West, Young ‘Cats —

- Sports Information
Players, coaches, and managers pose for the cameras after winning the Southern Conference championship against Furman on March 4. Davidson will play Ohio State in the NCAA tournament.

With two starters sidelined, others stepped up

By MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

With a game—in fact, a season—on the line, there are probably no hands to whom the Davidson coaches would rather entrust the basketball than those of senior captains Michael Bree and Emeka Erege.

But as the clock ticked down in Sunday’s championship game, the two captains sat on the sideline—their faces exuding a mixture of desire and leadership.

“Mike and Emeka brought tremendous presence to that sideline,” said assistant coach Jason Zimmerman. “They didn’t have to tell people how badly they wanted to win, you could see it in their eyes. They were on a mission, and that infected our whole team.”

Erege returned to battle against The Citadel in Friday’s quarterfinal round after being sidelined seven weeks with a leg injury suffered on Jan. 4 against Western Carolina. His entrance to the game was met with a thunderous ovation from the Wildcat faithful at the North Charleston Coliseum.

“Our fans are very knowledgeable about our players,” noted Zimmerman. “When guys like Michael and Emeka have missed games to injury, just seeing them get back onto the court is exciting.”

Erege proved his mettle, contributing 10 points, four rebounds, and two assists in a physical scuffle against the military school.

Though McKillop and staff were blessed to have Erege back in the lineup for limited action, they still had to contend with another gaping absence on the court.

Senior point guard Michael Bree—the catalyst of the offensive attack—was sidelined with a lower leg injury of his own after colliding with a VMI player on Feb. 23 and straining muscles on his lower right leg and calf.

So the Wildcats were forced to employ a point guard by committee approach.

Senior Fern Tonella stepped into the starting line-up, while Wayne Bernard and walk-on Terrell Ivory backed him up.

Saturday’s semifinal marked Bree’s turn for a triumphant return to the lineup. Met with an ovation of his own, he guided a balanced attack to upend recent nemesis UNC Greensboro 68-58.

Still battling through pain, Erege turned in a gritty and valiant performance against the Spartans. The 6-5 product of Long Island Lutheran scored 17 points on 7-of-11 shooting in 24 minutes before exiting the game.

see Injuries, page 3

Davidson heads to New Mexico to take on No. 4 Ohio State

By MATT GARFIELD
Managing Editor

Silence fell over the packed crowd in the 900 Room as CBS anchors began announcing the NCAA Tournament pairings on its live Selection Show on Sunday night.

A huge roar erupted when Davidson finally flashed onto the screen 33 minutes into the show as one of the last teams to be announced.

The Wildcats, predicted by most experts as a No. 14 seed, instead are No. 13 in the West Region. They’ll travel to Albuquerque, N.M. to take on No. 4 Ohio State at The Pit on Thursday at 3:10 p.m. EST (1:10 p.m. in N.M.).

The announcement was high drama for the roughly 300 fans and students who filled the 900 Room to watch the Selection Show on the huge projection screen.

But for players and coaches, it was the first chance to start preparing for travel, lodging, and most importantly, the Big 10 champion Ohio State Buckeyes.

“Knowing that we were going to show up on the board at some point was exciting,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “It was great theatre for our fans, students, and players.”

Although McKillop expressed disappointment that the NCAA Selection Committee did not place the Wildcats closer to home at a site such as Greenville, S.C., or Washington, DC, he said New Mexico has at least one big advantage: familiarity.

Last season, the Wildcats played two games in the COMCAST Lobo Invitational tournament at The Pit, losing to Drexel on Dec. 29 and beating William & Mary the next day.

“We'd love to be able to play in a place that is accessible to our fans,” he said. “Albuquerque’s not going to be that, but

see NCAAs, page 2

NCAA SPECIAL EDITION

The Teams Page 2
An in-depth look at how No. 13 Davidson and No. 4 Ohio State match up. Coaches expect a physical game.

Getting there Page 3
A look back at the Wildcats’ run to the Southern Conference championship, including wins over The Citadel, UNC Greensboro, and Furman.

Bracket analysis Page 4
Our own expert, basketball manager Will Roberson, examines the Field of 65. He predicts Kansas over Duke in the championship game.