New scholarship promotes diversity
Fund named for ‘Charles’ will sponsor minority students from the Chicago area
By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

John McCartney ’74 and his spouse Clare Mufiana recently worked with the admissions office to create a new scholarship aimed at attracting accomplished minority students from Chicago public schools. While promoting diversity at Davidson, “The Charles Scholarship,” funded by the couple, will annually provide full funding for one student “with demonstrated financial need and a strong record of leadership.”

This year, the college inaugurated the scholarship opportunity by flying the thirteen applicants from Chicago for a weekend visit. The group had the opportunity to meet McCartney, who was in the area on trustee business. He spoke to them about Davidson and the school’s influence on his own life. After hearing McCartney speak, the high school seniors attended classes and panel discussions with students about Davidson life, and explored Patterson Court, Charlotte, and a men’s basketball game.

McCartney and the admissions staff hope the scholarship will have a snowball effect in attracting Chicago students to Davidson. They hope that even those applicants who don’t win the Charles Scholarship will choose to apply for admission and take advantage of other financial aid opportunities. “Davidson has attracted students from the Chicago suburbs, but not many from the city system,” explained McCartney. “We hope the scholarship will help us identify top students there we may not have otherwise known about.”

John Dover, Davidson’s associate dean of admission and director of multicultural recruitment, pointed out that the benefits of the Charles Scholarship will be felt not only by the scholarship recipients but the college itself. “Hopefully we’ll see several of these young people matriculate here. They will not only increase the diversity of our student body immediately, but their success here will create an enduring Chicago legacy at Davidson,” he said.

The scholarship was created in honor of the couple’s fathers, both of whom were named “Charles.” Both men were immigrants to America and the first in their respective families to attend college. Each raised five children, and made sure their children all attended college and had the opportunity to go to graduate school. “They both made the most of family, community service, and education, and we would hope you would follow those footsteps,” McCartney said.

The admissions staff is currently processing the 13 applications for the Charles Scholarship. Four students will be selected as finalists and will be brought back to campus for interviews on Scholars Weekend, April 12-14. The scholarship will be awarded at that time.

Information for this article was taken from a College Communications Press Release.

Speaker shares story, warns of drunk driving
BY ROLAND F. FOSS
Staff Writer

Mark Sterner’s life changed drastically when three of his best friends and fraternity brothers were killed in a car accident during spring break in 1994. Sterner, the driver, ended up with three felony convictions of DUI manslaughter and two years in jail. Sterner shared his story with nearly 500 Davidson students at his Feb. 25 talk in Chamber’s Gallery. His presentation warned of the dangers of drunk driving and was sponsored by campus organizations and the National College Athletic Association (NCAA).

Sterner said that he “hopes people can learn from my story so they don’t do the same thing. They should think about the things they do.” Sterner described the night of his drunk driving crash when he and four friends were coming back from a bar near Ft. Myers, Fla. They nominated the person they thought was “least drunk” to drive. Sterner, with a BAC of .17%, was “least drunk,” even though he was still over twice the legal limit. His friends were at .22. On a two-lane, 35mph road, he lost control of the vehicle at 60mph. The car hit a tree, flipped, and ejected the passengers, none of whom were wearing seatbelts. Catapulted over forty yards from the car, Sterner landed in some woods and sustained broken ribs, a broken pelvis, severe head injuries, and tree branches through an arm and a foot. As Sterner emphasized, he was the lucky one. Three of his friends were pronounced dead at the scene.

Sterner was charged with three counts of DUI manslaughter, which came with a maximum sentence of forty-five years. The twenty-one-year-old walked away with a reduced, two-year sentence only as a result of the direct intervention of the families of his friends. He spent those years in a medium-to-maximum security prison. Living in a cell block where the other inmates had life or commuted death sentences, his time spent there became the “scariest” two years of his life.

“His message was clear as a bell, and I will keep his experience in mind.” - Alyssa Sinclair ’03on parole until the end of 2008. The other survivor of the accident refuses to talk to him. They used to be best friends, rooming together for four years and pledging the same fraternity. No longer. Sterner’s presentation was a stirring testimony to the deep consequences that can come from just one mistake. He showed extensive video of all the friends dancing, taking shots, and driving around—all on the night that changed, or ended, their lives. It was a presentation that, given a week before spring break, was quite timely. The audience overwhelmingly consisted of freshmen who are new members of Patterson Court. According to Grahaeme Hesp, Patterson Court adviser, all the members of the freshman class of Patterson Court organizations were “strongly encouraged” to attend. Phi Delta Theta pledge Rutledge Johnson ’05 said of the speech, “Sterner had a great impact on most of the students around me as he should have. His message was clear as a bell and I will keep his experience in mind.” Sterner shares his message with high school and college students across the country. He has spoken to more than 300,000 students since 1995.

RLO, from page 1

“They’re choosing,” said Marsicano. The most notable change is probably the new co-ed clustering rule. Marsicano explained that clustering is intended to allow close friends to enter the housing lottery together. The clustering group of four adds their lottery numbers together and divides by two to determine the number that both pairs of roommates will use in the housing lottery. Since the two pairs are called up to choose at the same time on lottery night, they are able to select rooms on the same floor. If their first-choice floor is full or only has room for one, the cluster can opt to split up. Students in the singles lottery may not cluster. In previous years, only same-sex clusters have been allowed, and the clustering pairs usually wind up on the same floor. At the request of the SGA Residence Life Committee, this year RLO has instituted the option of co-ed clustering. A pair of male roommates and a pair of female roommates can thus opt to share a lottery number and pick their rooms at the same time. However, Marsicano emphasized, in most cases co-ed clusters will end up on different floors in the same building. If a building is designated co-ed by floor, a cluster cannot violate this rule by moving men and women onto the same floor. Students (and parents) may rest assured that there will be no co-ed bathrooms. As is typical, floor assignments will be slightly altered this year; Marsicano said that the gender designations of floors are rotated regularly. Final gender assignments are not yet concrete. More unusual are class designation changes. Watts will become a co-ed, all-freshman, substance-free dorm, in part due to the greatly increased demand for substance-free housing. Upper-class substance-free housing will be available in the basement and first floor of Cannon. Watts’ next-door neighbor, Little, will be completely renovated this summer—including a new heating/air-conditioning system, which Marsicano says will eliminate Little’s pesky mold problems. The bathrooms, at the request of SGA, will also be renovated. Little will become a co-ed upper-class dorm. The elimination of single-sex dorms is not accidental. “We just didn’t have demand for it anymore,” Marsicano explained. No men and only a handful of women requested single-sex housing this year.

02/17/02 - Baker Sports
The value is estimated at $400.00
02/17/02 - Richardson
02/22/02, the bicycle was recovered.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER
It was reported that on 2/17/02, a Panasonic Camcorder was discovered missing. It was reported that an unlocked black/red Trek bicycle was stolen from Richardson Dorm. It is estimated that the worth of the bicycle is approximately $600.00. Thanks to Jim Lyon, Assistant Director of Public Safety and Police, for his help with the Police Blotter!

First Center Belk will also become co-ed upper-class; Third Belk will now house freshmen along with the basement, second floor, and the East and West wings of the first floor. Richardson will remain all-freshmen, and will also be refurbished this summer. Another change to the lottery process will be the elimination of theme halls. Marsicano described the coming year as a “sabbatical year” and said, “Theme halls have been successful, but not as successful as they could be. We’re going to take the next year to study theme halls and redesign them for increased success.” Marsicano wished to emphasize that, as in past years, all application deadlines and lottery night timelines are absolute—and those who miss them will end up missing out on their first choice for housing next year.