College Communications

Fans gathered in the Union to watch Davidson play Ohio State.

Our Big Dance was about more than a basketball game

I’m no college basketball guru, but last Thursday’s NCAA match-up between Davidson and Ohio State was probably one of the
most exciting games I have experienced as a sports spectator in all my life. However, it seems strange that despite
the intense feelings of apprehension, nervousness, and despair that it caused, the game has turned out to be of little
real significance in the overall tournament this year. How can this be true when every other sporting event that has
affected me as this one did turned out to be significant in the sporting world?

The answer, at least for me, is that Thursday’s game was about more than college basketball. As I watched and
heard our players being applauded, critiqued, and analyzed by the commentators on CBS, I felt this team had really accomplished
something for the College. Perhaps one of Davidson’s most significant weaknesses, our national recognition, was eroded on national television during
those two hours. Even as our team nearly pulled off a heroic upset, the school gained at least a little
more national recognition than before.

Zach Williams ‘05

We all figured the Davidson team had little chance of progressing further than the second or third round, simply due
to the recruiting and advertising advantage that larger schools have over us. So why cheer as wildly as I did
in the 900 Room last Thursday? There was more to it than the fact that our seeding (No. 13) made
us the underdog. Our team was representing an academic-minded school, with scant recognition in the sporting world. For Davidson, our
team’s presence and success in the NCAA tournament would mean more recognition in sports, but more importantly for our college,
more recognition in the world of academics.

When Gonzaga pulled off its historic upsets in the tournament a few years ago, their recruiting abilities shot upwards, but
little else concerning the school changed. But when Davidson gained a bid to the tournament this year, articles in magazines
and websites spoke of our school’s academic excellence, as well as our team’s successful season. If our team had won
(and they certainly came closer than many believed possible), our recognition would’ve certainly been enhanced only more. It seems our
school owes much congratulation to the basketball team this year. Thanks for representing our school valiantly, and helping the nation
to realize who we are.

I have been shocked over the past several weeks at just what the editors of The Davidsonian have deemed printable
in our college newspaper. Specifically, Tim Cook’s two most recent articles, “What to do when you get offended: deal with
it!” and “Tim’s Spring Break Checklist” have asked the question of whether our school paper has any standards for publication.
While the past month has seen the issues of censorship and freedom of expression brought to the forefront, it was
Tim’s articles that made me realize that context, not content, is the true issue.

The idea of censoring what students are allowed to say, whether it is on a radio show, in a newspaper,
in class, or in any other venue, certainly goes against the College’s belief in the free exchange of ideas. How
else can we deal with issues such as hate, racism, sexism, etc. if people are forbidden from saying what they
truly think? That being said, it is also important to realize that we are obligated to express our views in
certain ways in certain contexts. One such context is The Davidsonian (since it is not only read by students but
also by faculty, visitors, and the community). The editors of The Davidsonian seem to believe that the paper should be
a place where anyone can express anything they want. While it is up to the editors, not the administration, to
decide just what should be printed, I think it might be time to reconsider just what is and is not
appropriate.

David Crowe ‘05

Say whatever you want, but not in the newspaper

Newspapers, whether they are The New York Times or The Davidsonian, are meant to be places where both popular and
dissenting ideas may be expressed. However, the manner in which those ideas are expressed is usually subject to some sort
of standards. These standards seem to be far too lax in our paper. In any other paper, a journalist submitting...“This
is the time in our lives to get wasted and offend people, especially if those people really do suck,” would
certainly be returned to the drawing board for expressing his views in an insulting and inappropriate manner. The Davidsonian considers
such writing good enough and important enough to be read by the entire Davidson community. What Tim’s articles made me
realize is that the issue is not what is said, but how and where it is said. We shouldn’t regulate
what people are allowed to say, but we should set standards on how they are allowed to say things through
our school paper. The Davidsonian is by far the most widely read student publication on campus. The paper represents us
and our school. Last year, as I visited various schools, I would always pick up a copy of the student
newspaper to give me an idea of what the school and the students were like. Do we want to be
thought of as a school where drinking games and petty insults are deemed printable in the premier student publication? I
certainly hope not. We must remember that there is a difference between censoring and editing. People have a right to
say whatever they want, but not necessarily to say it in The Davidsonian. It is important for the editors to
place the school paper on a higher plateau and for us as writers to respect the context in which we
are writing.

What are the Democrats thinking? Judge Charles Pickering is a racist, bigoted, right-wing extremist. At least that’s what Democrats on
the Senate Judiciary Committee claimed last week as they blocked his appointment to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
— the highest-ranking judicial nomination to be turned down since President Bush took office. According to Democratic National Committee Chairman
Terry McAuliffe, “By nominating Pickering to a Court that presides over a region heavily populated with minorities, Bush is attempting
to disenfranchise this community.” As much as I may disagree with Democrats, only a fool would use such strong language
if they couldn’t back it up. Unfortunately for the Democrats, Pickering is not a racist. James Charles Evers, a renowned
civil rights leader for 30 years, recently had this to say about the judge: “Charles Pickering has an admirable record
on civil rights issues. He has taken tough stands at tough times in the past, and the treatment he and
his record are receiving at the hands of certain interest groups is shameful.” Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle said last
year that the American Bar Association’s ratings are the best way to determine whether a judge is qualified. The ABA
has a general tendency to give conservative judges lower ratings, which usually plays into Democrats’ hands. However, last year the
ABA gave Pickering its highest rating (“well-qualified”). A bigoted judge is highly unlikely to receive such high praise. What does
Daschle have to say about the ABA now?

If Democrats have problems with Pickering’s views on abortion (he is pro-life) or on religion (he is a devout Christian),
then those are the issues they should have stressed in their attack campaign against him. Knowing that such issues would
give them no reason to block his appointment (the president has the constitutional right to appoint qualified judges of whatever
philosophy he chooses), they chose instead to fall back on their usual tactic of race baiting. Most analysts predicted Pickering
would have been easily appointed had he passed committee and been brought up for a vote on the Senate floor.
Unfortunately for the nation, the Democrats’ tactics worked. The will of the people was subverted since the elected senators never
got a chance to vote. The ultimate strategy of the Democrats is to convince Bush to nominate more moderate Supreme
Court justices. By axing Pickering’s nomination, they attempted to send a message to the White House: We have control. But
the contradictory statements coming from the left have cost them political capital. With some Democrats claiming Pickering is a racist
unfit to be appointed, while five others (not on the Judiciary Committee) publicly announced their support for him, the nation
has to wonder if any of the Democrats are telling the truth. After all, a mere 10 years ago, Pickering
was confirmed in his current federal circuit position by a unanimous vote of the Senate. One has to wonder what
has changed since then, besides the political motivations of those in control of the Judiciary Committee.
