WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2002

By AMANDA MORAVSKY
Staff Writer

In their last home match of the season on February 23, the Wildcat wrestlers suffered two major blows, losing to conference foes VMI and Campbell, 54-0 and 52-0 respectively.

The Wildcats started the afternoon in competition against the Keydets of VMI. Junior Grant Doornbos (149) opened the match against VMI’s Mike Parsons. In one of the closest competitions of the day, Doornbos held onto a 2-4 deficit in the first period before losing the match 6-2. Senior Jeff Bender (157), in his last appearance in Belk Arena, was matched up against nationally-ranked Adam Britt. After a 5-15 score at the end of the second period, Bender could not manage any more points, losing to Britt 21-5. In the 165-pound bracket, sophomore Mo Idlibi could not hold on past the first period, as the referee disqualified him less than one minute into the match. VMI’s Jason Kontopedes was named the winner. For the final match-up against VMI, sophomore Mark O’Hair (174) was set against another nationally-ranked Keydet, Matt Erwin. Unable to score in the first period, O’Hair put up four points against Erwin, but Erwin walked away with a 13-4 win. In the 125, 133, 141, 184, 197, and the heavyweight bracket, VMI was awarded full points as Davidson forfeited due to a lack of wrestlers.

After a short break during the VMI-Campbell match-up, the Wildcats were back on the mats with sadly similar results. Doornbos (149) showed tremendous strength during his match-up with Campbell’s Carl Wrinkle, entering the final period with a deficit of 2-1. However, Wrinkle persevered with two takedowns and won the match 8-2. Doornbos ends the regular season with a 12-12 record. Bender (157), with the closest score of the day, was paired up against Victor Arena who managed a 6-2 win in the third. Bender ends his regular senior season with a record of 14-15, and with a career record of 47-56. His fourteen wins this season is tied for team high. At the 165-pound division, Idlibi suffered an unfortunate loss as Campbell’s Adam Rees pinned Idlibi at the 2:30 mark. Idlibi closes the regular season 1-14. In the last competition of the afternoon, O’Hair (165) fell to Campbell’s Lantz Nixon by a major decision of 11-1. O’Hair ends his sophomore campaign with the best Wildcat record at 14-14. In the other six divisions, the Wildcats were forced to forfeit due to a lack of wrestlers.

The Wildcats’ next competition is on March 4 when they make a run for the SoCon Championship. Although the team does not have enough wrestlers to win as a team, the individuals will be competing for a conference championship and a chance to go to the NCAA. Doornbos commented on the afternoon and the upcoming conference championship, “We all got to see the number one ranked wrestlers in the conference, and we now know what we need to do different when we wrestle them again in a couple of weeks.” The Wildcats will be spending the next two weeks preparing to meet against conference rivals again.

Busting out of the bullpen, baseball evens season at 5-5

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

After dropping a 10-5 decision at High Point last Wednesday, the Davidson ball club rattled off three straight wins during the weekend home stand to even its record at 5-5 on the still young season. In their first away game of the 2002 campaign, the Diamond ’Cats jumped out to a quick four-run lead against the Panthers. Freshman Sam Navarro’s infield single in the top of the first knocked in fellow Eli Benefield ’05, and a throwing error on the play also allowed Tim Frend ’02 to score, sending the Wildcats ahead 2-0. Davidson tacked on two more in the third when Frend tripled in DJ Dailey ’03, and co-captain James Marino ’02 lofted a sacrifice fly into left field that scored Frend. High Point cut the deficit in half in the bottom of the third, and finally grabbed the lead for good in the sixth. Davidson would add one more in the top of the seventh when Steven Aldrich ’02 scored on a fielder’s choice, but it would not be enough as the Panthers cruised to the 10-5 win.

Photo by Matt Whited
Matt Dellinger ’04

“The High Point pitcher threw extremely well, but I thought we played good baseball today,” head coach Dick Cooke said after the loss. “We didn’t get a whole lot of scoring opportunities late in the game and they scored some runs off a couple bleeders.”

On Saturday, Niagara University, who had lost their first two games by aCombined 22 runs, traveled to Wildcat Park for a double-header. Andy Carter ’05 picked up his second win of the season (2-0), as the Wildcats squeaked by the Purple Eagles in the opener. Once again, the Cats grabbed an early advantage, scoring two runs in the bottom of the second without recording a single hit. With the bases loaded due to three consecutive walks, Trae Fletcher ’02 drove in Marino with a sacrifice fly to left field, and co-captain Billy Ryan ’02 crossed the plate when junior Mark Williams also sacrificed to deep left. Niagara countered in the third, putting three runs on the board only to have Navarro crush a two-run homer to put Davidson ahead by one in the bottom of the fourth. Niagara added two more in the fifth, but the Wildcats promptly tied the game at five in the bottom half of the inning when Benefield scored off a Marino sacrifice fly to center. After the Purple Eagles were retired 1-2-3 in the sixth, Aldrich scored what proved to be the game-winning run as he stole third and advanced home off a throwing error by the catcher, making it 6-5 in favor of the ’Cats. “We battled well today against Niagara,” noted Cooke following the win. “They pulled ahead late but we took advantage of some errors on their part and came away with a well-earned win.”

Frend had starting duties for the nightcap, but an ankle injury forced him to move to designated hitter, so Erskine Wells ’03 came on with no outs in the second and retired the first 13 batters he faced. Davidson grabbed the early lead yet again, as Dailey jacked a one-out solo shot over the fence in left for his first round-tripper of the season. The Wildcats added another in the second when freshman Michael Muniz, who had singled earlier in the inning, scored off a Benefield fly to center. Frend extended the Wildcat lead to three in the third as he launched a solo shot down the line in left, and then in the fifth he scored off a Ryan single as the Davidson nine rolled to a 4-0 win. Wells (1-0) went six innings, allowing just one hit while striking out two and walking none to earn the win. “Erskine did a great job in relief,” lauded Cooke. “Tim had to leave with an injury, but Erskine really stepped up to get the job done.”

On Sunday, looking to extend their winning streak to three, the Wildcats butted heads with the Albany University Great Danes, who had dropped their opener to Richmond by a score of 5-1. Albany led 5-2 after six and a half innings of play, with both Davidson runs coming in the second when Aldrich singled in Muniz and Dailey drove home Benefield. The Wildcats pulled within one in the seventh as Marino and Ryan both hit RBI doubles, and Frend put the ’Cats ahead in the eighth with a two-out triple to right center that scored both Aldrich and Dailey, making it a 6-5 ballgame. Muniz followed suit, smashing a double into right-center that scored Frend and Marino to give Davidson a little insurance as they walked away with an 8-5 come-from-behind victory. Matt Dellinger ’04 came on in the fourth and worked 4 and 2/3 innings of relief, striking out three against just one walk to pick up his first collegiate win, and Carter struck out the side in the ninth to earn his first collegiate save. “Dellinger did a great job coming out of the bullpen and going deep into the game,” said Cooke. “Overall, the bullpen did a great job this weekend. We played good defense all week, the pitchers did a good job keeping the ball in play and we demonstrated some patience at the plate.”

Davidson will look to continue with its winning ways on Wednesday against Duke, as the Blue Devils travel to Wildcat Park for a 3 pm game. Over the break, the Wildcats will square off against Columbia at home for a pair of double-headers, and will then take to the road to face North Carolina A&T, The Citadel for three games, and South Carolina.

Inspirational Quote of the Week
“The real glory is being knocked to your knees and then coming back.” — Vince Lombardi

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Mar. 2 Columbia (2) 12:00
Mar. 3 Columbia (2) 1:00
Mar. 5 @ North Carolina A&T 3:00

BASKETBALL
Feb. 28-Mar. 3 @ SoCon Tournament Charleston, SC

SWIMMING
Feb. 27-Mar. 2 ECAC Championships Gloucester, NJ

GOLF
Mar. 4-5 @ Winthrop Spring Invitational

LACROSSE
Mar. 4 @ Lehigh TBA
Mar. 6 @ Holy Cross TBA

MEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 1 @ College of Charleston 2:00
Mar. 2 @ The Citadel 12:00
Mar. 3 James Madison Charleston, SC
Mar. 5 @ Georgia Southern 10:00

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 5 @ James Madison TBA
Mar. 6 @ Evansville TBA