‘American shares experiences from year in Israel

How one Davidson senior witnessed terrorism, division, and unity

By ANDREW McKAIN
Special Contributor

I’d just sat down to a late breakfast when I heard the sirens. While waiting on a pastry in the oven, my roommate and I counted them, as usual, to figure out what had happened. One or two always signaled an accident, but after four, we knew there had been another attack. Since the sirens seemed so close, I assumed something had happened on French Hill, a neighborhood less than a mile from our dorm that had been the site of several terror attacks during the past year. But when we turned on the news, we saw bloody scenes from our own campus—the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. A bomb packed with rusty nails and screws had ripped through the crowded Frank Sinatra Cafeteria, killing seven people and wounding dozens more.

My roommate’s cell phone rang and his dad was on the other end crying. I made a quick call to my parents and began checking on friends who might have been near the explosion. Four hours later, my roommate and I went to the site of the bombing and found workers washing away the last bit of blood from the pavement. Medics, ambulances, and victims were long gone, replaced by news vans and journalists. It almost looked as if nothing had happened, until I saw the café—its windows blown out, ceiling ripped apart, and walls charred black. It was an eerie scene. My friends and I had eaten its schnitzel and soggy imitation Chinese food many times. I stood there for a few minutes with a weak stomach, watching reporters tiptoe over broken glass as they took turns filming spots for the nightly news. Then I took a deep breath and left for the library to finish some work.

Like all Israelis, I’d grown used to such scenes. During my time in Israel, Jerusalem alone saw more than 10 suicide bombings. The rest of the country suffered many more, all within an area slightly smaller than the State of New Jersey. I left Israel one week after the Hebrew University attack with a profound respect for the determination of its people and their struggle for normality in the face of a ferociously consistent terror.

Israelis have been forced to employ extensive security precautions for so long that they think nothing of what might seem very strange to us. Without thinking, most passengers scrutinize new persons boarding their bus, always watching for potential suicide bombers. Checkpoints manned by the IDF and border patrol stand everywhere, as do security men guarding the entrances of public places. I went downtown to celebrate Israel’s Independence Day and on my way to the city center, I had to walk nearly 200 yards through five checkpoints, each time spreading my arms and opening my bags for the soldiers to inspect. Even some of the smallest cafes and restaurants in Jerusalem have been forced to hire security guards or build gates around their businesses, in order to keep patrons coming. To offset these security costs, which can reach $10,000 a month, many owners add

Photos courtesy of Andrew McKain
McKain celebrates Israel’s Independence Day with friends in downtown Jerusalem.

Stocks, from page 1

need-based financial aid annually. Of that, a large portion comes from the endowment.” Kathleen Stevenson-McNeely in the Financial Aid Office put the official number at $4,768,288. She also said, “That number is a three-year rolling average. And right now, we do not expect to lose any of that funding. We’re not experiencing any decrease in dollars of financial aid or otherwise, in our scholarships. Requests for reconsideration of aid [from current students] are up, as perhaps second-breadwinners in some students’ homes have been laid off, but not so many numbers of students or families have requested that.”

One especially bright spot in the college’s finances remains the Annual Fund, which contributes 10 percent of the college's operating budget. Last year, the Annual Fund raised $5.84 million with a record 58.3 percent of alumni participating. This year, the goal is even more ambitious, hoping to raise $6 million from 56 percent of alumni. Elizabeth Kiser, Director of the Annual Fund, said, “In a year of tough economic times and national tragedy, people everywhere re-examined what is important in their lives. Some donors cut back on what they gave but they still gave something.

“Because of this, Davidson ranks fourth among its peer schools nationwide in participation behind only Amherst, Williams, and Hamilton.” Burton sounded an optimistic note for the endowment’s future, and he predicts it would begin increasing again. He said, “I think inthe long run, over five to 10 years, the growth in the global economy and the domestic economy will be reflected in the equity markets. "Over a five to 10 year period, I think there will be growth in the endowment."

McKain (center) stands at the Western Wall in Jerusalem during his year abroad in Israel. His Israeli roommate Asaf Maimon (right) prays—with a gun tucked in his pants. My roommate worked a security job for which he was issued a pistol. He carried it in a holster on his hip everywhere he went—to school, restaurants, and even the synagogue. Nearly every Israeli from the ages of 18 to 21 does the same. Both men and women are required to serve in the army, during which time they must always carry their guns. I quickly grew accustomed to the sight of M-16s sagging from the shoulders of soldiers younger than myself, as I often bumped the barrels of their guns squeezing down the aisles of crowded downtown buses. Still, it was always strange to see an 18-year-old girl walking through the mall carrying a machine gun half her size.

Throughout the year, I struggled with how to respond to weekly terror attacks. After seeing the aftermaths of suicide bombings so many times, one comes to expect them, and the bloody scenes lose their ability to shock. While one fights desensitization, it is almost necessary to lead a somewhat normal life. Israel has routinized its response to attacks. Medics reach the scene within minutes, evacuate victims to a safe zone a short distance from the explosion, and then rush them to hospitals. While hospital staffs prepare medical supplies to receive the ambulances, social workers arrange rooms with water bottles and muffins to receive families searching for loved ones caught in the attack.

As an intern for the Jerusalem Post, I witnessed this scene in the emergency room of Sha’are Zedek hospital on two consecutive evenings when Jerusalem experienced back-to-back suicide bombings that took the lives of 25 and wounded more than 90 people. By the second evening, the entire hospital staff was exhausted, but, as one nurse said, they continued to “work without thinking, just like machines.” They had done the same thing many times before. One Israeli mother I interviewed told me that 30 minutes after the bus bombing in Gilo, which killed 19 people, her 17-year-old son walked out the door to catch another bus for school. They lived less than a mile from the explosion, and as he was leaving, she gave him the silent look of a concerned mother. He shrugged, “Mom, how else do you expect me to get to school?”

After years of bloody terror attacks, Israelis still take buses, visit cafes, eat in restaurants, and do their shopping downtown, despite the risk involved. The Mahane Yehuda market was always one of my favorite places to shop on Fridays for fruits, vegetables, and the best pastries in town. The week after a female suicide bomber exploded in the market killing six people, I went back for more pastries. Not because I was brave or because I didn’t want to let the terrorists win, but where else would I get my pastries?

Water, from page 2

County, Davidson is at the end of the line for Charlotte-Mecklenburg Utilities, the school’s present water supplier. Last April, the combination of location and strain on water resources led to a sharp decrease in water pressure on the upper levels of many dorms. Holthouser recalls, “they were pumping water out of Charlotte and it just wasn’t getting to us.” On average, water pressure should be around 70 pounds per square foot—at its lowest level during the summer, water pressure at Davidson sank to 16 pounds per square foot. Foreseeing some serious problems with the return of students, Holthouser met with President Bobby Vagt and the school invested in a $50,000 water pump. “I can guarantee you water pressure of 70 lbs/sq foot now,” Holthouser reports.

Currently, Davidson is investigating the idea of constructing a well so that watering the grounds would not continue to draw on Charlotte’s municipal supply. However, turning to below-ground aquifers is not an end-all solution. Scientists have noticed a trend where the nation’s aquifers are being depleted faster than rains can replenish them. Without a table of water to support land above, the ground can sink as much as a quarter inch per year. The issue is controversial and nationwide. Nebraska has placed limits on the amount of water that consumers may extract from local aquifers and eastern North Carolina is taking steps in the same direction.