a 2 Staff Editorial

Last Wednesday, for the first time in four years, the Honor Council held an open hearing. The charges were not
honor-based: they did not revolve around lying, cheating, or stealing. Instead, they charged a student with violating the tenets of
social responsibility. Most importantly, we begin by thanking Stratton Lawrence for letting us all witness his trial. It was his
choice to make the proceedings public. We hope that student attendance was, at least partially, a show of support for
Stratton. But we also recognize the courage it takes to make such an event public. Disciplinary proceedings, regardless of their
severity, are very personal issues. We, as a student body, were privileged that a fellow classmate wanted to share his
with us.

The public trial served a commendable purpose: it removed some of the mystery that surrounds the Honor Council and its
activities. All of us live under the Code, and we all submit ourselves to the Council’s authority. By understanding more
fully the specifics of Honor Council procedure, we are all better informed about the system to which we have agreed.
Clearly, there are valid reasons for keeping most trials confidential. We are not suggesting that trials become public, or that
all accused students choose to make theirs so. But when the nature of a charge lends itself to publicity, the
community benefits by taking part in the trial.

The verdict of last week’s trial is closed, and we respect the rights of the accused to choose how, and
if, to disseminate those results. But as we look forward, isn’t there a contradiction between an open trial and a
closed verdict? The Red Book does not make specific provisions for the public disclosure of an open trial’s verdict. It
should. The Honor Council and the administration need to work together to define just what happens after an open trial.
When the proceedings are public, shouldn’t the verdict be also? It doesn’t make sense for us to watch the entire
trial and never find out the outcome. The point of a public trial is arguably to educate the community on
the issue at hand. That education is only complete when the public understands the full process. In the future, an
open trial should come on the condition of an open verdict.

At the very least, the concepts of closed and open verdicts need clarification. If the verdict is closed, is the
involved student allowed to tell his or her friends? Once he or she does so, is the verdict considered public
information? Does that student ever lose control over who gets to find out? Similarly, if the verdict is open, should
the administration make an official announcement? The Honor Code’s accessibility is a key part of its success. The option of
an open trial takes the first step towards that accessibility, now, let’s take the next step.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Colin Eagan
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Emily Drew
Caroline Hauser

Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Chris Schmader

Sports Editors
Piers Connolly
Mike Giglio

Students got to see the Honor Council at work.

NON SEQUITUR

THE NOTION HAS BEEN PUT FORTH THAT WE SHOULD SEEK TO CREATE RATHER THAN IMITATE. ALL IN FAVOR OF KILLING
THAT SILLY NOTION, NOD IN MINDLESS AGREEMENT...

The MAGIC of HOLLYWOOD

Thanks for taking part in Wednesday’s trial

I would like to send a gracious thank you to the Davidson students who attended the Honor Council open trial
last Wednesday. Their behavior, respect, and attitude impressed everyone on the Council, and made my job a whole lot easier.
Open trials do notCome along very often, and I am thrilled that so many Davidson Council in action: While having
a trial is not in itself a good thing, it shows that our Honor Code. The number of people who
showed up to the trial is a testament to the commitment and interest that Davidson students have in the Honor
Code. I hope that everyone learned a great deal about the Honor System at Davidson, and shared those lessons with
those who were not there. I am proud to be the Honor Council Chair at a school with such a
strong Honor Code—its strength only comes from the commitment of the students. I would like to thank everyone who took
part in the trial for their dedication and thoroughness, and again thanks to everyone who attended. If you have any
questions about the Honor Code or the Honor Council, do not hesitate to e-mail me at remoore@davidson.edu.

Rebecca J. Moore
Honor Council Chairperson

SGA stands behind new Vamonos rules

During the past week, there has been a lot of talk regarding the future of the Vamonos Van. It is
of the utmost importance to the SGA that this service remains operational and uninterrupted. I am happy to report that
the Van will operate for the rest of the semester starting this weekend. Myself, along with many other senators, have
spent the last week developing a plan to present to the administration aimed at preventing a repeat of what occurred
on the weekend of Sept. 21. What took place on that day should never have happened, and the SGA stands
behind these new, clearer policies to make sure it doesn’t. There seemed to be some uncertainty about whether alcohol was
allowed on the van, either in open or closed containers. From now on there will be no alcohol allowed on
the Van. The Vamonos Van is a free service to provide safe transportation to those who need it on- or
off-campus. It was never designed for late night beer runs into Cornelius. It is my hope that with these clearer
regulations, the Vamonos Van will continue without problems. Students should be reminded that this service should not be taken for
granted, and we should all work to make sure that no more problems arise. I would like to thank Walker
Saik, Kevin Epps, Daniel Hanks and the Patterson Court Council for scheduling drivers for the fall semester. Without their help
the van would remain parked. If there are any questions or concerns about these new policies, please feel free to
contact your SGA senator or me individually.

Grady Patterson
SGA President

Let’s appreciate what our town has to offer

In response to “Our Town: An Oasis Amidst the Sprawl” (David Crow, Sept. 25). I’d like to thank David Crow
for his column on suburban sprawl. He’s right that Davidson still possesses a pedestrian-friendly Main Street that “creates a distinctive
sense of place.” It’s the kind of place that is becoming rarer each day, and all of us who live
and work here are fortunate to have it. To help preserve Davidson’s character as an attractive and inviting town, I
would urge all of us—students, staff and faculty alike—to enjoy it often, and on foot or bicycle. The more cars
and trucks that clog its streets, the more unsightly and less welcoming it becomes. So leave the SUV at home
or at the dorm—and certainly, if you must drive, don’t endanger one another and our children by exceeding posted speed
limits. Davidson offers pleasures that simply can’t be experienced at 25 (or more) m.p.h. Give yourself, and the rest of
us, a treat by taking advantage of them.

Professor Brian J. Shaw
Department of Political Science

LLY Z 1 just drank We poore: IT's not my Faster. | jer invined some Fresuman. 4
