From Mulholland Drive to The Center of the World:
By Derek Lou, Arts and Living Editor

Because the Lake Norman area lacks cinematic variety, I have not had the chance to see some of 2001’s most championed films. These well-respected titles unseen by me include The Business of Strangers, Iris, Kandahar, No Man’s Land, and Monster’s Ball, which my favorite critic called the year’s best film. Instead of these titles, we got a heavy dose of Hollywood fare, which wasn’t necessarily a bad thing. We were treated to Spy Kids, Shrek, and I even enjoyed American Pie 2 as much as the original. Angel Eyes wasn’t all that bad, and neither was The Mexican. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring was a great success, and I enjoyed it immensely, as I did Ocean’s 11.

As for the worst films of the year, there were many. For every Shrek, there were two or three Planet of the Apes. I won’t pay them any more attention. My favorite movies of 2001 — the ones that I enjoyed thinking about, discussing, and watching the most — are as varied as can be. There’s animation, helicopters spinning out of control, East German transsexuals, a 19th-century love story, and a sexual act called “fire and ice” that involves ice cubes and alcohol. It was an interesting, confusing year for movies, but a good one, nonetheless.

Before we get to my favorite ten, a list of runners-up in alphabetical order. The Mexican film Amores Perros was obviously influenced by Pulp Fiction and yet unique. Cure, from Japan, was the year’s most haunting thriller. It received a very limited release, and I was lucky to stumble upon it. The Hughes Brothers gave us From Hell, an atmospheric retelling of the Jack the Ripper legend. Robert Altman’s country house murder-mystery Gosford Park showcased some of the year’s best supporting performances. I was a huge fan of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone. It belongs on a shelf with The Wizard of Oz. In the Bedroom stars Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson as parents torn apart and then brought together by their son’s life. With its colorful sets, languorous cinematography, and sensual soundtrack, Wong Kar-Wai’s In the Mood for Love was one of 2001’s most beautiful films, telling the story of a man and woman who love each other but cannot be intimate. Keep the River on Your Right: A Modern Cannibal Tale is a documentary about Tobias Schneebaum, the most original and admirable person I’ve met in a movie. Favoring a touching story over sharp humor, Monsters, Inc. was the best animated children’s movie of 2001. Richard Linklater’s Tape reunited high school friends in a motel room for 86 dramatic minutes, with Uma Thurman in an Oscar-worthy performance. And Under the Sand starred Charlotte Rampling as a woman who cannot let go of her missing husband.

www.movies.yahoo.com
Naomi Watts stars in Mulholland Drive

And now my favorite movies of 2001:

1. Mulholland Drive. One Los Angeles critic said, “I do not pretend to understand Mulholland Drive.” Good call, buddy. I do not know what this movie is about. I have my ideas, but they are probably just as right as they are wrong. The well-respected Warren Christian says, “It’s about perception versus reality.” Perhaps. People will be watching and arguing over this film for as long as we still go to the movies. I do know, without a doubt, that Mulholland Drive was the most enjoyable and exciting movie released in 2001. I do not know why or how I love it so much, but I do. The “plot” may be about a naive actress (Naomi Watts) who goes to Hollywood looking for fame only to discover deception, murder, and an attraction to women. Director-writer David Lynch creates a frightening Los Angeles that probably is not that far off the mark.

2. Black Hawk Down. Black Hawk Down is director Ridley Scott’s second big release this year. The first was Hannibal, a stylish but ultimately disappointing sequel to The Silence of the Lambs. And of course, we cannot forget his Gladiator, which I would not hesitate to call the most overrated film since The Usual Suspects. Having seen Black Hawk Down, I’ll forgive Scott for Gladiator and Hannibal. His latest work is technically awe-inspiring. Critics repeatedly have criticized the film’s lack of character development, but to develop characters would have been a mistake: this movie is about plot, about how one thing happened after another during a catastrophic military mission. Characters would have softened this material. Black Hawk Down is unlike any movie I have seen, and I admire Scott’s unflinching vision of warfare. Interesting that a movie so absent of characters was the first ever to bring me to tears.

3. Hedwig and the Angry Inch. Hedwig is a rock musical about an East German transsexual musician who was wronged by his/her ex-boyfriend. Hedwig, not Moulin Rouge, was the musical to see in 2001. It was the year’s funniest film, as well as one of the most touching. And like our oxymoron of a heroine (played by the film’s director, John Cameron Mitchell), the final song of the film, “Midnight Radio,” overflows with emotion, closure, and new uncertainties.

4. The Widow of St. Pierre. Patrice Leconte directs Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil in the only movie ever to convince me of two characters’ love for one another. Auteuil plays the captain of the 19th-century French colony of St. Pierre. When a man is convicted of murder, Auteuil and Binoche host him in their courtyard until a guillotine arrives. As Binoche and the prisoner grow closer, the most astonishing thing happens to the captain and his wife. The Widow of St. Pierre is a convincing argument against the death penalty, and it is even more remarkable as a character study. Binoche and Auteuil give the very best lead performances of the year.

5. Our Song. The tagline for Our Song is “Lift Every Voice.” The voices lifted in Jim McKay’s film belong to three New York teenaged girls, played by Kerry Washington, Anna Simpson, and Melissa Martinez. Our Song is one of those plotless films that wanders around with its characters instead of forcing them into contrived stories. Here is a film about being a young woman in New York City, about being Hispanic, about being black, about friendship.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Gospel choir with an electric guitar, Spiritualized released their fourth album, Let It Come Down. The album is a triumph of religious revivalism and may signal a new trend towards spiritual conviction in modern rock music. Born and raised in rural England, Spiritualized front man Jason Pierce brings his love of the sermon together with feedback-laden guitars. Spiritualized is akin to other British bands such as Radiohead and Coldplay, but unlike their secular contemporaries, Spiritualized adds an essential religious vocal element. The British Online Music Review likens Spiritualized, as well as Starflyer 59 and Primal Scream, to a Great Awakening, where rockers forsake indulgent late nights for the Good Book. Pierce’s musical direction contains a hundred-person orchestra and a gospel choir creating a joyful coming down with Britain’s Spiritualized. Yet Pierce’s broader musical direction undoubtedly faces towards the heavens. Let It Come Down begins with “On Fire,” a vivid tale of Pierce’s prodigal youth. As the album progresses, Pierce creatively builds an image of his ascent out of hell and towards heaven. The song is abrasively loud and is meant as a critique of his youthful errors and sin. However, the album abruptly shifts with the soothing “Don’t Just Do Something.” Singing to the echo of an uplifting choir, Pierce emerges from his personal hell of youth and turns towards a spiritual light. In “The Straight and the Narrow,” Pierce sings about the difficulty a young man encounters trying to live in the image of Jesus. This song pays tribute to its British rock heritage by implementing countless guitar effects and synth sounds, yet boasts lyrics that would not seem out of place in church. The final two songs, however, narrate Pierce’s unexpected fall from the heavens, hence the name of the album. Pierce writes that these are deal. “Won’t Get To Heaven (The State I’m In)” is a conceitful ten-minute hymn mostly performed by the choir. And with its first single, “Lord Can You Hear Me?” Let It Come Down ends with Jason Pierce begging for rescue. It’s a slow, sorrowful tune that epitomizes the album’s experimental synergy between gospel and rock music. Spiritualized is often compared with Radiohead strictly from an aesthetic perspective. By melding an orchestra and choir with experimental guitar riffs and effects, Pierce has created a complex texture that is undeniably relevant. Yet Pierce’s purpose for writing songs is also to bridge the mainstream’s gap between music and religion. The substance of the album is found in the collage of gospel voices and the counsel in Pierce’s sermons. Let It Come Down has been billed as Spiritualized’s breakthrough album and like other bands in its genre, the effort may indicate a religious revival in rock music. Prepare to be the best of 2001 and of course, about the summer that changed everything. It’s the most compelling coming of age story I have seen.

6. Innocence. If The Widow of St. Pierre showed two characters in love, then Innocence shows two characters falling back in love. Writer-director Paul Cox tells the story of Claire (Julia Blake) and Andreas (Charles Tingwell): the two were lovers as young adults, and they discover each other again on the last leg of their lives. Cox moves his characters through the wonderful first stages of love and brings them to a surprisingly thoughtful conclusion. Innocence is a movie full of truth and warmth.

7. The Royal Tenenbaums. I saw The Royal Tenenbaums three times in five days. And in each viewing, the film’s odd notes played differently. Its quirkiness could have led the film in so many wrong directions, and yet director and co-writer Wes Anderson never takes a wrong step. He directs a cast of well-known actors, including the great Anjelica Huston, to near perfection. For those of you who have seen Tenenbaums, you’ll remember Luke Wilson’s shaving scene. What happens in that scene is so out of place, and yet it works. The Royal Tenenbaums is further proof that movies are not “good” or “bad” because of their plots, but because of how they execute their stories.

8. Waking Life. Richard Linklater, best known for Dazed and Confused, created Waking Life, an animated meditation on the meaning of life. Like some of Linklater’s other films, Waking Life floats freely from scene to scene and idea to idea, and the animation only adds to its dream-like qualities. Linklater and his crew first videotaped scenes with actors, and then artists animated the footage. Waking Life is a philosophical and technical breakthrough.

9. Bread and Roses. Director Ken Loach tells the story of an illegal Mexican immigrant, Maya (Pilar Padilla), who fights to join a janitors union. Paul Laverty’s screenplay focuses on the issue of immigration, seemingly supporting Maya and other illegal aliens. However, Maya’s sister (Elpidia Carrillo in a role that would win her a Best Supporting Actress Oscar in a fair world) gives a speech so harshly honest that we cannot help but question the rest of the film’s ideas. Bread and Roses is an uncompromising and deeply moving film.

10. The Center of the World. What would you do if you had a lot of money? This question is at the heart of Wayne Wang’s film about a young dotcom millionaire named Richard (Peter Sarsgaard) and the stripper-drummer named Flo (Molly Parker) with whom he is obsessed. He offers her $10,000 for an all-expenses-paid weekend in Las Vegas. She agrees, but only if he pays up front, and there is to be no sex, no kissing, and she only has to “perform” for four hours each day. The Center of the World is at all times interesting, and it becomes fascinating when we start to wonder if the two genuinely begin to like each other. As for the graphic sexuality, it’s necessary, showing the physical extremes to which Flo and Richard willingly and unwillingly go.

Finally, I’d like to mention Larry Clark’s Bully. For me, it was the most challenging movie of the year. It’s his second film since the release of Kids, and in many ways, Bully is harder to handle. A group of high school seniors and dropouts plan and execute the murder of Bobby Kent (Nick Kent), a rapist, drug abuser, pimp, and all-around bully. The movie has been called everything from pedophilic, pornographic, exploitative trash to a masterpiece. Either way, it’s clear that Clark is a gifted filmmaker whose work, controversial or not, is unforgettable.