Court, from page 3

tion,” said Hesp.

In an e-mail to the house presidents, Hanks informed members of the court that he had also met with Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Dean of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano. The e-mail, which Hanks requested be forwarded to members of the Patterson Court houses, warned anyone with information to step forward. If not, Hanks said all the houses might be shut down indefinitely.

College Presi-

dent Bobby Vagt noted, “I hope and trust the PCC with this crime to determine who it was that did this.” Unfortunately, the vandalism did not stop there. According to Campus Police, Warner Hall’s kitchen door was twice broken open and 13 cases of beer were stolen from Rusk over the weekend.

Hesp described the unclear motives of the destruction as stemming from a long line of simple pranks built up over the past months.

“The history behind this may have been over a time period. It may have started as harmless inter-court pranks which have built up and gotten out of hand over time. This always happens with pranks, and because of this, the [PCC] president is aware of the need to prevent them from occurring in the future.”

Acts such as these, he says, are anything but jokes.

“Glass and feces are not jokes, nor is the fact that the organizations are now having to pay to clean the houses. The Physical Plant staff is having to go above its normal workload to clean. There is general disruption across the court.”

Though the investigation is far from completion, development thus far has been successful according to Hanks. The investigation will continue into next week though no completion is apparent in the near future.

These vicious acts have aroused sentiments of shock and anger from members of both organizations and from students across campus.

SPE president Jimmy Swansbrough ‘03 expressed his strong sentiments over the destruction to their house.

“My initial reaction and that of our brotherhood was shock and then anger. There’s no way you can spin this crime to call it a drunken prank or anything meant in good will. What I find sad is that this community is so small and interconnected, yet individuals still find the ability to hate others just because of a few letters they represent. I’d guess roughly three-fourths of current fraternity members got bids to other houses on the court, and to think that some of these people condoned or at least knew about the incidents without preventing them seems sadly ironic. The individuals responsible insulted our chef by ruining his kitchen, and insulted two eating houses who take little or no part in the yearly court pranks.”

Sinclair also felt disillusioned over the vandalism.

“What I still don’t understand is what would possess anyone to do this. I understand that fraternities play pranks on each other, but why would a bunch of guys trash an eating house? I can’t see how that would be funny no matter how drunk you are. It’s just mean.”

“We, at PCC, were tremendously disappointed to discover that such activity took place last Wednesday night. There is a clear line between funny pranks and needless vandalism, and, here, the line was blatantly crossed,” said Hanks.

“Fraternity pranks are fun to some extent, but in this instance the amount of damage was out of control. Whoever is responsible should be punished,” said Amanda Mordavsky ‘02, former president of Rusk.

At a Monday night meeting between the Patterson Court presidents, Public Safety officials and administrators, President Bobby Vagt gave a speech in which he offered "a confession, a plea and a promise." The confession was that he has been aware of the rise in vandalism at the school. The plea was to the Court members to find out who was responsible. And finally, the promise was that, "Someone has to respond. If these things don't happen you force me to do something else."

Hesp informed the attendees that four individuals had come forward. One of these four has admitted to vandalizing SAE and SPE. The other three admitted involvement with SAE, SPE, CoHo and Rusk.

Phi Delta Theta president Jordan Case ‘03 apologized on behalf of his fraternity for a Phi Delt member who had confessed.

Those guilty will likely face charges under the Code of Responsibility for what Hesp deems “by far the worst acts of vandalism I have ever seen.”

Managing Editor Timothy Cook contributed to this article.

CAREER-BUILDING INTERNSHIPS THAT OFFER A PAYCHECK... AND MORE

Each year, two students from Davidson College are among eight students in the Carolinas selected to receive paid summer internships sponsored by The Duke Endowment, a private foundation located in Charlotte. This innovative program allows selected students great leeway in constructing customized internships in the fields of higher education, health care, children’s welfare, spiritual life, and communications.

The Endowment helps students develop and arrange internships, pays for interns’ housing for eight weeks on the Duke University campus, and pays each intern a $3,000 stipend.

Applications for summer 2002 are now being accepted, deadline is February 22nd.
For more information, contact:

Thomas C. Shandley
Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students
Davidson College
(704) 894-2225

Did you know that
Griffin Brothers Tire Sales

Griffin Brothers Tire Sales, Inc. has the most advanced diagnostic equipment & superior customer service.

Trust Griffin Brothers with all your automotive needs including...
major engine work • scheduled maintenance • computer diagnostics

Raney
704.896.8473
19141 W. Catawba Ave.

Mooresville
704.662.0049
278 W. Plaza Dr. (Hwy. 150)

GRIFFIN BROTHERS TIRE SALES, INC.