16 Wildcats send two soccer players to the pros
Ozimek and Erickson are drafted 49th and 64th

Press RELEASE
Sports Information

Davidson’s Erik Ozimek and Dane Erickson were both drafted in the 2002 Major League Soccer SuperDraft yesterday. Ozimek was taken
with the 49th pick while Erickson was chosen 64th.

“This is a tremendous honor for Erik, Dane, their families, and Davidson,” said head coach Matt Spear. “Playing in Major
League Soccer, the premier division in American soccer, has been a dream for both young men. Many people feel their
excitement and pride, including all the teammates who played with them, plus the staff, professors, and coaches, especially my predecessor
Charlie Slagle, who helped to foster their growth.”

Ozimek, a native of Columbia, S.C., was drafted by the San Jose Earthquakes. He was named to the All-South Region’s
third team. He was named All-South for the second season, becoming just the third Davidson player to ever capture that
distinction twice. This season Ozimek was second on the team in points with 18. His eight assists tied for the
team lead in 2001 while his five goals put him second on the team in that category. Although he played
just two seasons at Davidson, he ranks in the top 10 in career assists and was also named all-conference in
both seasons.

“Davidson soccer and the College salute this achievement for Erik and Dane, wishing each the best this season, and for
the national recognition and energy that we all share,” added Coach Spear.

Erickson, a native of Littleton, Colo., was drafted by the Kansas City Wizards. He is a 2001 graduate of Davidson
who has been playing professionally throughout Europe over the last year. Erickson served as team captain during his senior season
and finished his Davidson career with 37 points on 10 goals and 17 assists in 74 career games.

Both Ozimek and Erickson will start spring training this week with their respective teams in Florida. The two are joining
successful clubs as Kansas City won the 2000 MLS Cup while San Jose won the 2001 MLS Cup. Davidson was
one of just nine schools in the 2002 SuperDraft to have multiple players chosen in the draft. The duo joins
Rob Ukrop ’93 as the only other Davidson players to be drafted by Major League Soccer. Ukrop, Davidson’s all-time leading
scorer, was a seventh-round selection (65th overall) of the New England Revolution. He scored the first two goals in Revolution
history in the team’s inaugural game.

The Wildcats are coming off an 11-8 season and will have an exciting home schedule next season with visits from
ACC-powers Clemson and Wake Forest, as well as South Carolina. The ‘Cats will also renew their rivalry with North Carolina
as they head to North Carolina for a match-up against the Tar Heels.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2002

Photo by Erin Berry
A Wildcat batter kicks off the season against Wake Forest.

Baseball opens season with loss to No. 15 Wake Forest
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Last season, the Wildcats faced Wake Forest in a home and home series and were outscored 26-9 as the Demon
Deacons won their 11th straight game against Davidson, an unbeaten streak that dates back to 1996. Yesterday afternoon, the Wake
Forest ball club once again journeyed...down I-77 to Wildcat Park as both teams kicked off their 2002 campaigns. Of special
note, the meeting marked the 34th time Wake Forest Coach George Greer has faced his old team. Greer coached at
Davidson for six seasons from 1982-1987, and has experienced tremendous success against the Wildcats, compiling a 30-3 record as head
coach for the Deacons. Unfortunately for the Davidson nine, little has changed over the past 12 months and the 15th-ranked
Deacons cruised to a 7-2 victory behind the solid pitching of sophomore Kyle Sleeth (1-0).

“We saw one of the top pitchers in the country today,” head coach Dick Cooke said. “Sleeth was throwing consistently
around 92 miles per hour, and he touched 95 several times as the game progressed.”

Cooke handed starting duties to senior Tim Frend (0-1) and the right-hander from Maine kept the game close through 4
and 2/3 innings before an errant throw opened the door for the Deacons, who capitalized quickly as Jamie D’Antona cleared
the bases with a grand slam to give Wake a 6-1 lead.

“D’Antona may be the best hitter in the country at this point,” noted Cooke following the game. “He got a
good look at one of Tim’s two mistakes and made solid contact.”

Offensively, Davidson batters were held to one run off six hits as Sleeth struck out 10 without issuing a walk
through seven innings.

“I thought we had a number of good at-bats on the day, and we created several scoring opportunities,” an optimistic
coach Cooke said. “I was very pleased with our effort physically, we just need to tweak a few things mentally.”

Wake Forest got on the board first when Nick Blout laced a two-out, two-run double off the right field wall
in the second frame. Davidson countered in the fourth as senior co-captain Billy Ryan singled in fellow co-captain James Marino,
who had doubled deep to center. The Wildcats tallied another run in the last of the ninth off a two-out
single down the left field line by senior centerfielder Steven Aldrich.

Despite the loss, Frend proved his worth on the mound yielding only two earned runs, while striking out seven against
just a pair of walks. “Tim pitched very well today, and I felt he and Billy Ryan called a great
game,” Cooke remarked.

Defensively, the Wildcats made good decisions in the outfield, especially the perfect relay involving right fielder Sam Navarro and second
baseman Eli Benefield, both freshmen, to cut down a runner at third.

Davidson returns to action on Friday, as Brian Akin gets the nod against Delaware State and the home stand continues
through the weekend when Big East powers Boston College and Georgetown University come to town.

Inspirational Quote of the Week
“When I hear somebody sigh, ‘Life is hard,’ I am always tempted to ask, ‘Compared to what?’” - Sydney Harris

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Feb. 15 Delaware State - 3:00
Feb. 16 Boston College - 3:00
Feb. 17 Boston College - 1:00
Feb. 18 Georgetown - 3:00

LACROSSE
Feb. 15 Denver - 4:30
Feb. 20 @ High Point - 3:00

MEN’S TENNIS
Feb. 17 UNC Asheville - 1:30

MEN’S BASKETBALL
Feb. 16 Appalachian State - 7:00
Feb. 19 @ C. of Charleston - 7:00

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Feb. 16 UNC Wilmington - 11:00

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Feb. 14 UNC-Greensboro - 7:00
Feb. 16 Chattanooga - 3:00
Feb. 18 Georgia Southern - 7:00

MEN’S INDOOR TRACK
Feb. 16 @ Gamecock Indoor Open
Columbia, SC
