Dete, defense dominant as football rolls over Wildcats, force six turnovers to win second straight

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

The Davidson defense caused six turnovers in Saturday’s 34-7 victory over Newberry. But it was the first one that made
all the difference in the game. The Indians had driven deep into Wildcats’ territory late in the first quarter, threatening
to score the game’s first points and put Davidson in an early hole. That’s when senior Ryan Tennis burst past
his blocker and into Newberry quarterback Brian Shealey, knocking the ball loose and directly into the hands of an unsuspecting
Davidson linebacker.

Showtime, Brendan Dete.

Dete, a 6-foot, 220-pound sophomore from Marietta, Ga., scooped up the ball and rumbled 82 yards for a touchdown in
what seemed like the longest run of his life. “I was just standing there, thinking, ‘Oh wow, Tennis has a
sack.’ Next thing I know, the ball is in my hands,” said Dete. “I just took off. I’m not the
fastest guy in the world. It took me a while to get there.”

“I’ve never returned a fumble before,” he went on to say. “My first thought was, ‘Oh my gosh, what do
I do?’” He started down the field and, after fellow linebacker Daryl Childers blocked the closest Newberry pursuer, Dete had
an open lane to the end zone for his first career score. “I started looking around, seeing if someone was
going to catch me,” said Dete. “(After Childers’ block), I thought, ‘Geez, I’ve got to score now.’”

By the time Dete caught his breath on the sideline, the Wildcats had taken a 7-0 lead and, just as
importantly, dealt a demoralizing blow to the Indians’ offense. Seven minutes later the lead grew to 24-0, and the game
was never...

Field hockey drops two of three

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

After defeating Appalachian State in a stellar 3-1 win last Wednesday, the field hockey women faced two challenging teams over
the weekend. The Richmond Spiders and Towson Tigers both proved too much for the ‘Cats, who now stand with a
record of 4-3 on the season.

The Cats’ win against Appalachian, the 46th meeting between the schools, enabled them to remain undefeated in the NorPac conference.
The Wildcats now lead the all-time series 24-20-2, although the last time they had defeated Appalachian State was on Oct.
27, 2000.

Davidson grabbed the early advantage, as junior Kathleen Fenn scored off of a penalty corner from seniors Jess Barton and
Allison Matlack with 27 minutes left in the first half. Courtney Hughes added to the Cats’ lead with 12 minutes
remaining when she delivered her first collegiate goal. After clearly dominating the first half, the ‘Cats suffered a small setback
in the beginning of the second frame when Appalachian’s Emily Walls scored a goal off of a fast break situation.
The ‘Cats answered with 12:38 remaining in the game, when Matlack secured Davidson’s win with an unassisted goal.

Davidson held Appalachian to only four shots in the game. Sophomore goalie Sarah Nolan added to the defensive effort by
making one save. Offensively, Davidson took 11 shots on goal and had 10 penalty corners. The team’s seniors proved to
be the dominating force for Davidson as Agnes Bateman, Alex Rogers, and Matlack demonstrated their offensive skill while the defensive
stick work of Barton prevented the Mountaineers from generating much offense.

Assistant coach Alejandro Loynaz commented, “We definitely controlled this game. We were able to score first, and we spent the
majority of the second half trying to maintain the lead. Unfortunately, Appalachian scored a goal off of a fast break,
but we emphasized the importance of simply maintaining possession in the second half. Jess Barton was our deliverer in this
game. Whenever we’re in trouble, Jess relieves us and gains the ball back.”

Following their win over Appalachian State, the ‘Cats headed north to take on the Richmond Spiders. Richmond dominated the game
and won 3-0. Richmond’s Emma Bradley led the Spiders to victory with her two first collegiate goals. With 30:47 left
in the first half, she scored off a penalty corner, and three minutes later recorded her second tally to give
Richmond a lead it would never relinquish.

Unlike the Appalachian State game, the ‘Cats were unable to control possession against Richmond. The Spiders took 15 shots on
goal, while holding Davidson to a single shot. Richmond also dominated the penalty corners, with 16 to Davidson’s three. Richmond
goalie Michelle Swartz finished the game with her second shutout of the season. Nolan made 8 saves for the ‘Cats
in the losing effort.

Davidson concluded the week with a frustrating 4-1 loss against the Towson Tigers on Sunday afternoon. Towson dominated the game
from the start. Hardly two minutes into the match, the Tigers scored off a penalty corner and would continue to
dominate for the remainder of the game. Davidson’s seniors once...Again demonstrated their important role on the team, Barton assisted Matlack
on a goal with two minutes remaining to avoid the shutout. The goal was Matlack’s second of the season. Towson
delivered 12 shots on goal, while Davidson dished out six. Towson goalie, Loren Wolf, made four saves, while Davidson’s Nolan
had six saves. Davidson returns to action this weekend with two games against Southwest Missouri State. Saturday’s game is scheduled
to begin at 1 p.m., and Sunday’s match is set to start at 11 a.m.

Kung-fu Monks spate) Sep cipanapaeas of martial arts experience Com Judo ¢ Swordsmanship | tte in doubt. Dete finished with
nine tackles and a sack to go along with the fumble recovery, highlighting a dominant performance by the Wildcats’ defense.
“The key this week was we finally got some turnovers,” said senior linebacker Jim Carney, who tied Dete with nine
tackles. “That was something Coach (Toop) really challenged our defense to do. We’d been playing good defense, but maybe not
as aggressively. Six (turnovers) is always a lot. The first one was huge. I don’t think they ever recovered.”

Newberry, a Division II scholarship team, was bigger and deeper than the non-scholarship Wildcats, but Carney said he barely noticed.
“I doubt we'll play a team this year that we’ll be as big as,” he said. “But we’re a fast
team and we play hard. We out-hustle a lot of teams, and we don’t worry about size.”

As seniors, Carney and Tennis were expected to spearhead the Wildcats’ defense. They’ve been joined by Dete, a sophomore, who
Carney says has a special knack for the game. “He’s one of the smartest players I’ve played with,” he said.
“He’s a great tackler and pass rusher. He’s gonna be a great player for a while.”

After losing two yards on their first three possessions combined, the Wildcats' offense got on track late in the first
quarter. Senior quarterback Paul Nichols completed his first pass of the evening to freshman Chalin’ Aswell for 34 yards, allowing
sophomore tailback John Leverett to take the ball into the end zone from one yard out for a 14-0 lead.
Nichols earned his 10th career 200-yard passing game, connecting on 13-of-28 passes for 238 yards, a touchdown, and two interceptions.
Seven different Wildcats caught passes, with senior tight end Mike Chase and junior receiver Randall Hardy each hauling in three.

Kicker Daniel Hanks set a Davidson record by attempting five field goals, and with 10 points in the game, he
also moved into third place on Davidson’s all-time scoring list with 169 points.

Davidson (2-1) vs. Saturday, 1 p.m.

The History: The Wasps own a 9-3 advantage all-time versus Davidson, but the Wildcats have won the last two meetings,
with the most recent coming in last year’s 23-6 road victory. In that game, tailback John Leverett scored on a
19-yard TD run to open the scoring. Paul Nichols threw touchdown passes to Mike Chase and Randall Hardy, and Daniel
Hanks added a field goal. Safety Graham Elmore had two interceptions to hold the Wasps at bay. Emory & Henry
finished in second place in the Div. III Old Dominion Athletic Conference last year with a 5-5 record.

The Teams: Emory & Henry is located in Emory, Va., near Roanoke and has an enrollment of 950 students. The
Wasps return 15 starters and have posted wins over Ferrum and Sewanee after E&H trailed Hampden Sydney 24-7 in the
fourth quarter last Saturday before mounting a stunning comeback to win 25-24. Tailback Dan Hammonds scored three touchdowns. Quarterback Shannon
Johnson finished the game with 61 yards on 15 carries, plus 143 yards in the air.

Davidson’s defense forced six turnovers in Saturday’s 34-7 blowout of Newberry, including an 82-yard fumble return by linebacker Brendan Dete.
Wideout Barrett Johnson also scored on a 64-yard TD reception.

The Coach: Lou Wacker is in his 20th year at the school and has led the Wasps to 11 conference
titles and five trips to the NCAA playoffs. In 1998, the Wasps finished the season undefeated, and until 1999, the
team held a 37-game winning streak at home, the best in the nation. E&H boasts one South Region Championship and
37 All-Americans since 1982. Mike Toop is in his second year as Davidson head coach and owns a 7-5 record.

What to Expect: With the exception of last season, most every game between these two teams has been tightly contested.
After Saturday’s huge win over Hampden Sydney, the Wasps should come in confident and eager to avenge last year’s loss.
But Davidson’s defense has come alive in the past two weeks, with dominating performances against Jacksonville and Newberry. Expect a
close, hard-fought game that may come down to whichever team can capitalize on turnovers.

-Matt Garfield

Kung Fu ¢ Karate

Visit our website: Traditional Martial Arts of Huntersville
