Editorial

There’s no need to use this space to discuss whether Sunday’s WALT radio show was a disturbing display of college immaturity. Formulating a list of the 20 “most hated” people at Davidson and then announcing it on air was in questionable taste. Its occurrence should spark a discussion about the best way WALT can serve the Davidson community.

WALT has long been an under-utilized but potentially valuable asset to this campus. But few people know it even exists, much less take the time to tune in. A supervisory organization, such as the Union Board, should supervise the station and do a better job of promoting it. It should spend more time and money to put together entertaining but respectful shows that bring attention to all that is good about Davidson, including athletics, Union activities, academics, and student achievements. Good fodder shouldn’t be hard to find.

This organization also should keep close tabs on who and what goes on the air. We’re not advocating censorship here, but there has to be some sort of procedure in place to ensure quality programming. The Union Board has done an exceptional job this year in putting on concerts, pancake breakfasts, and all kinds of other activities. It has taken full advantage of the new opportunities offered in the new Union, and its staff is full of talented, enthusiastic leaders eager to create fun for fellow students. Maybe the Union Board ought to take on the challenge of rescuing WALT from the identity crisis into which it has fallen.

A college radio station like WALT has the potential to serve as a campus-wide forum in which important issues can be discussed and debated. Two years ago, for example, professor Scott Denham and baseball player Jeremiah Parvin held an on-air debate about the role of fraternities, athletics, and academics at Davidson. They took phone calls and argued passionately about a wide variety of issues. The show was a prime example of the influence that a radio show can have on shaping opinions and enlightening an audience. After all, that’s why we are here in the first place.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Tim Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh
Gavin Weber

Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser

Photography Editors
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

Net & Business Managers
Gregg Wallace
Jett Lartimore

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR by WILEY

"Why don't we turn off the TV and just talk?"

What do patriotism and basketball have in common?

I dedicate this piece to two groups of people: everyone with tacky post-Sept. 11 bumper stickers and all of you who go to basketball games and watch dispassionately while our teams face clutch situations. You both make me sick.

The events in New York and Washington were tragedies of horrible magnitude, and it was important for our country to show a united front in our opposition to terror. Almost instantaneously, however, a sincere outpouring of emotions turned into another money-making scheme and pop culture phenomenon even worse than the Backstreet Boys. Where was your patriotism when the U.S. Women’s Soccer team won its first World Cup? Where was your patriotism when you allowed a misguided Supreme Court to override the people’s vote in the last presidential election?

How many of you who preach “United We Stand” weren’t at the women’s basketball game on Tuesday when it scored more than 100 points? How many of you weren’t there when the men came within three points and mere seconds of beating Western Carolina? I hope you were in your rooms organizing a political movement to end poverty, because drinking or playing Xbox are not excuses.

Before you can solve problems on a national level, you have to solve them on a local one. Before we can unite the country, we have to unite the campus. So get off your butt and go to a sporting event. This doesn’t just include men’s basketball, but every sport on campus. They all deserve our support. If you can’t even go to a basketball game, then you had better take off that phony bumper sticker.

Vic Lindsay ‘04

Our misguided defense policy

President Bush announced on Wednesday his push for a $48 billion dollar increase in defense spending,saying, “We will not cut corners when it comes to the defense of our great land.” If the increases pass, the U.S. government will spend $379 billion on defense next year. According to the Washington Post, that means we will be spending roughly the same amount as the next 15 closest competitors. Bush assures us that “in order to win this war against terror” new spending is essential. But a closer look reveals a whole lot more.

First, Bush implies that the way to fight terrorism is to build high-tech weapons. Unfortunately, there is no technological silver bullet to fighting terrorism. A fully functioning missile defense system could not have prevented the murders committed on Sept. 11. Nor can precision-guided bombs blast terrorist cells forever out of existence. An appropriate strategy against terrorism will require human skills, like respectful diplomacy and intelligence gathering.

Perhaps the worst part about Bush’s proposed hike is that it does almost nothing to combat terrorism. Due to rather shoddy media coverage, very few people know what this money will go toward. Most of it will go to procuring “big ticket items,” like the F-22 fighter jet, which was originally meant to combat a Soviet fighter plane that was never built. More useful items, like unmanned aerial drones, would receive much less support.

U.S. military priorities have been seriously misplaced since the end of the Cold War. The military has continued to train to fight the Soviet Union instead of modernizing its force structure to fit newer, smaller security threats. According to William Greider in Fortress America, the result of this odd situation was that the military had to cut back on training and pay for troops so that it could pay for both old and new weapons systems. Reform seemed likely when Sect. of Defense Donald Rumsfeld told the Pentagon and the military-industrial complex they would have to make “tough choices.” With the Bush budget, neither will have to make any choices. The “War on Terrorism” has derailed any political will for reform. Pet projects will continue, while efforts to make the U.S. military adaptable to new challenges like terrorism will lag. Without a serious debate about reform, our military’s ability to meet these challenges seems doubtful.

Congress should reject Bush’s push for increased military spending and call for efforts to meaningfully revise the Pentagon’s force structure to make our military both affordable and useful in the 21st century.

Josh Craft ‘04

Drunken hook-ups rethought

In response to “Behind Closed Doors: ‘What’s your name again?’ (Jan. 23, Arts & Living).” I was extremely troubled by the apparently lackadaisical attitude taken towards “drunken hook-ups” in last week’s article. While I am comforted that the authors at the very least encouraged sober encounters over drunken ones and while I am not usually one to condemn the actions and choices of others, I have one major difference with Kayleen, Lauren, and Sarah—unlike them, I think drunken hook-ups are not okay in any circumstance.

I am a member of Patterson Court and I know it happens all the time, but that doesn’t mean that I condone or agree with it in any way. The authors of this article caution people to “be smart.” They’re right, but in this case, especially if you’ve been drinking, the smart choice is always to say “no.” The Davidson Sexual Misconduct Policy makes it clear that incapacitation (this includes intoxication) constitutes a lack of consent in all cases. I too fail to see how anyone can make an intelligent decision if they’ve been drinking. Because it is much easier to take advantage of someone intoxicated, drunken hookups are questionable territory when it comes to giving and obtaining consent.

I also wonder—if your inhibitions are such that you'll hook up only when you’re drunk, that’s a signal that you probably shouldn’t be doing it in the first place. So I have a radical proposal: if you meet someone on the Court whom you find attractive, by all means, dance, talk, flirt, whatever. But go home alone. Get in touch with him/her the next day. If there was really a connection, you haven’t ruined it by creating morning-after awkwardness, and maybe something wonderful can develop. And if it was just animal attraction, is it really worth it if you can’t remember what happened the next morning anyway?

Kristine Harrington ‘03