By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

Summing up Davidson’s 85-78 men’s basketball loss to East Tennessee State can be accomplished in four words: Free throws. Dimeco Childress.

ETSU hit 39-of-42 free throw attempts, and Childress scored a career-high 36 points to lead the Bucs to their fourth straight victory on Saturday afternoon at the Memorial Center in Johnson City, TN.

“Their foul line percentage was extraordinary,” said Wildcats coach Bob McKillop. “You can’t put a team to the line that many times.”

Childress converted all 14 of his free throws and 10-of-21 field goal attempts, including 14 straight points during ETSU’s decisive second-half run. The Wildcats had no answer for the 6-3 senior guard, who surpassed a previous career-high of 35 points set one game before against Georgia Southern.

“He was extraordinary,” said McKillop. “He played a marvelous game.”

Davidson held the Bucs scoreless for the first 4:45 of the game and to only 36 percent shooting in the first half. Michael Bree’s three-pointer at the 3:15 mark gave the Wildcats their largest lead at 38-32. But it quickly vanished, as the Bucs used a 24-4 run over parts of both halves to take a 60-49 lead with 12 minutes left. Davidson battled back, but couldn’t contain an athletic Bucs team that drove to the basket aggressively and hit the boards hard, exploiting a 17-8 offensive rebound advantage.

“I don’t think the problem in this game was our offense,” said McKillop. “Clearly the foul line and offensive rebounding told the tale of the game.”

Referees whistled four technical fouls in the physical, hotly contested contest, one each against Chris Pearson and Nick Booker.

“It’s going to be a physical game whenever us and Davidson play,” ETSU coach Ed DeChellis told the Johnson City Press. “We respect each other, but there’s not a lot of love lost.”

Davidson placed four players in double figures, led by Bree’s 19 points. Bernard had 15, while Martin Ides added 14 and Pearson chipped in 12.

With the loss, Davidson drops to 16-7 overall and 9-3 in the conference, but holds on to first place in the division. ETSU is 14-9 and 7-5.

Next up for the Wildcats are two home contests, hosting Georgia Southern on Wednesday at 7 pm and Appalachian State on Saturday, also at 7 pm.

---

SGA, athletic department to honor basketball seniors

Doubleheader at home, SGA festivities celebrate class of 2002

By Erik Ehinger
Staff Writer

This coming Saturday marks the final home game for the men’s basketball team, and that means it’s senior day for the class of 2002 Wildcats.

The men’s and women’s teams will be honoring their seniors Saturday as both teams square off in major games against their respective Southern Conference rivals.

It’s going to be a full day of action on the court and the Student Government Association is kicking things off early with a cookout at 1 pm in front of Baker Sports Complex.

SGA’s own Joey Harris and Kevin Epps will be grilling hamburgers and hot dogs to the sounds of student bands, and if that’s not enough, they’ll be giving away everything from gift certificates to basketballs signed by the ’Cats.

Come down early, eat lunch, and tailgate with SGA before the women take it to sharp-shooting rivals Chattanooga, then stick around as the men continue their Southern Conference dominance against Appalachian State.

Students who stay for both games will be registered to win one of several grand prizes being given away by SGA.

It’s your last chance to see this outstanding senior class at home and a crucial conference game for both teams.

They’re looking to have the biggest crowd of the year because, as Epps pointed out, “We went up to App State this year and we were louder than their fans, but they always bring a big crowd and we need to make sure they don’t outdo us on our home court.”

Men’s basketball vs. Appalachian State

Two weeks after hanging on for an 82-72 win at Appalachian State, Davidson will attempt to win a second game against the Mountaineers (9-15, 4-9) at 7 p.m. on Saturday’s Senior Day in Belk Arena.

The Wildcats hope to give Michael Bree, Fern Tonella, Martin Ides and the injured Emeka Erege a victory in their final appearances in Belk Arena—as well as maintain their lead in the North Division.

With the Southern Conference tournament just two weeks away, jockeying for favorable seeds is heating up.

The top two teams in each division earn a first-round bye, meaning they need only three victories in three days to win the tournament and earn the automatic NCAA bid.

But before the Wildcats can worry about that, they’ll need to contain a balanced Mountaineers attack led by Donald Payne (10.2 ppg) and Jonathan Butler (9.8 ppg).

Ides turned in one of the best all-around games of his career during the first victory, contributing 15 points, 12 rebounds and six assists.

-Matt Garfield

---

Breakfast Menu

The Soda Shop

Since 1951

Breakfast Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes

104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC

Eat-in Take-out

---

Men’s basketball falls to ETSU, but holds on to first place

Photo by Matt Monson

Michael Bree ’02 (right) led Davidson with 19 pts in a loss to ETSU.

---

Sure, we’ll have you climbing walls. But if you qualify for a 2+ or 3-year scholarship, tuition’s one obstacle you won’t have to worry about. Talk to an Army ROTC rep. And get a leg up on your future.

For scholarships and enrollment info, visit CPT Leslie at Jackson Circle or call (704) 892-2165.

ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take.