She'll be able to offer psychology: will be presenting her session: “The Dance Connection: Strengthening Key Relationships,” which discusses mood disorders and depression. Her lecture will hopefully increase awareness about depression and encourage people to seek assistance with this widespread problem. Crosby, who has acted as the faculty advisor for the Blalock Lecture project since its inception in 2000, commented, “Lerner is a respected clinician who writes for a popular audience. Her work is very accessible and practical.”

When asked about his hopes for the series, McKay responded, “KA’s goal in presenting this insight is to help people lead emotionally healthier lives.”

This event, which is free and open to the public, has been made possible due to a tremendous outpouring of support from members of the Davidson community, including the Dean of Students Office, the Student Counseling Center, the Union Speakers Committee, and the Public Lectures Committee along with gifts from five Patterson Court Houses: Kappa Alpha, Pi Kappa Alpha, Connor, Warner Hall, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Turner.

Members of the Class of 1990 were especially helpful, donating not only generous gifts but hours of time to the organization of this lecture.

Goldfish, from page 1

Because of the added burden on the housekeeping employees, the conspirators settled on a plan and sought out real goldfish, playing on their opponents’ name. Those involved, including Alice, Bridget, Sarah, Caitlin, Tiffany, and male hallmate Russ, all of 3rd Belk, decided to place the dead fish in envelopes rather than setting them loose in the toilets or taping them to their doors. They began the Godfather-inspired prank they termed, “Operation: 3rd Rich Sleeps with the Fishes.”

At Wal-Mart, they attempted to acquire dead goldfish. They learned, according to Bridget, “Wal-Mart throws away their goldfish after three days.” The pet department manager at Wal-Mart disputes this claim, saying that the store receives new fish every Friday and has a three-day guarantee to replace a fish if it dies of natural causes. The girls also said they bought the fish that the Wal-Mart employees said were the oldest, at the bottom of the tank, for 28 cents apiece. Returning to campus, releasing the water in their bags asphyxiated the live goldfish, which were then frozen in a freezer. Afterwards, they were placed in the envelopes and sealed for delivery.

Christina Boye ’06, of 3rd Rich, said, “Monday morning, I was one of the first ones to get up, because I had an 8:30 class. In front of every door there were two envelopes. I figured it was from Mary and Elizabeth, our hall counselors [who often leave notes in that manner]. It was a white envelope with a reddish-brown dot appearing from outside. I went back in the room and my roommate walked out. She found that there was a goldfish smushed inside the envelope.”

Brika Ekland ’06, who was also one of the first to find the goldfish, collected and disposed of all of them save those outside their hall counselors’ door, which she left as evidence. 3rd Rich hall counselors Mary Carpenter ’04 and Elizabeth Matthews ’04 sent an email encouraging their hall not to respond in kind. “As long as the girls who did it understood that dead fish was taking a practical joke too far,” the issue would be settled, Carpenter said.

Regarding the incident, Boye said, “It really disgusted all of us. Being at Davidson, I didn’t think [an act like this] was something that would happen to me. I didn’t expect [competition] would be so hyped up and intense,” that would lead to a stunt of this nature. Gregson said, “I think that if just pranks and silly payback things are involved, that’s fun, but when you’re killing things, that’s beyond the rules.” Sharp-Williams added, “The entire incident just seems a little fishy to me,” while Tiffany joked, “I just hope we don’t play the 2nd Belk Puppies next.”

Trial, from page 1

Nevertheless, the packed auditorium of students curious about the workings of the Honor Council and its decision on this case hung on every word spoken. After introducing each Honor Council member and the situation at hand, the student solicitors and student defense advisors presented their opening statements. The solicitors introduced memorandums from the police on the night of the party for the Council members to examine. After the Council distributed the booklet of the charges and the members were given time to read it, Lawrence was called forth. Lawrence claimed that, having just moved in that day, he remained “upstairs playing cards and socializing with friends.” He admitted to having contributed $10 to the purchase of alcohol. However, he pointed...out that 40 other people contributed money as well. When asked by a council member if he had seen anyone out of control, Lawrence answered, “If I had seen anything or anyone out of control, I would not have allowed them to stay.”

Following Lawrence’s testimony, Lucas Spivey ’03 gave evidence of the responsibility exercised at the party and of Herlong’s actions at the party. He remembered Herlong as being drunk, but not as a danger to himself.

After a short recess, the student solicitors presented their closing statements and once again cited the Code of Responsibility sections 3 and 13 in declaring Lawrence socially irresponsible in his actions at an off-campus party. The defense advisors then argued the responsibility shown by Lawrence in not advertising to first-year students and not involving himself in the rest of the party, but rather staying upstairs. Lawrence then presented his own case by questioning the degree of responsibility to which he should be held. He asked, “If I had not put $10 in, would [Herlong] have not gone to the hospital?” He acknowledged his own state as an underage drinker and planned to accept an alcohol violation. However, as for the violations of the Code of Responsibility, Lawrence felt accountability was unjustly placed upon him instead of Herlong, whose own actions placed himself in danger.

By 9 p.m., the open hearing concluded, and the Honor Council began deliberations on Lawrence’s verdict as a closed session. According to the Dean of Students office, the Honor Council was in full deliberations until 1 a.m. The verdict reached, however, was closed to the public at Lawrence’s request.

Lawrence questions the depth of Davidson’s investigation into Herlong’s condition when coming to his house on Aug. 24. During the hearing, police statements were disclosed and confirmed that Herlong had been drinking prior to the party. Asks Lawrence: “Shouldn’t the school carry out further inquiry into where the majority of the alcohol Jackson drank that night came from? Furthermore, on my first night back at school after summer; is it mine or the school’s responsibility to ensure freshmen don’t wander off-campus?” Herlong declined to be interviewed.

As for making his hearing the first open one in four years, Lawrence clarified last Wednesday night, “It’s important to get the Code known throughout the student body and prevent another similar situation from occurring again.”

Responders, from page 1

In response to this revelation, the group has taken action to increase its presence on campus. Representatives from the club have spoken at Davidson 101 meetings, which all new students are required to attend. They have distributed magnets, sent volunteers to each hall and put up flyers. “We’re making a presence through the freshman class,” says Kauffman. The plan is working. Kauffman has fielded about 50 phone calls from curious individuals as a result of the group’s guerrilla advertising tactics, a huge increase from years past. This past Saturday morning’s training session drew a crowd of 23, doubling the turnout from last year. The session, which was led by Kauffman, consisted of videos, speakers, and discussions, all centered on setting the tone for what each volunteer could expect as a First Responder. Mary Russ, a representative from the Victim Assistance program in Charlotte, spoke to the group about the seriousness of the issues they would soon be dealing with. The new volunteers, a group comprised of about two-thirds women and one-third men, will begin active duty in November upon completion of training in smaller groups.

Meanwhile, the advertising campaign continues. Kauffman has plans for CatCard stickers with the pager number, similar to the PCC CatCard stickers that most students currently have. Also in the works is a plan for laminated sheets with the pager number to be placed in each restroom on campus. The rise of student interest in the program, as well as the efficiency with which it is run, are testaments to its success. Both Kauffman and Ringle are pleased with the direction the group is taking, an advancement that is due, in no small part, to the group’s dedicated volunteers. “I am in awe of the men and women that work on this committee,” says Ringle. “I attribute its success to them.”

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

09/25/02 Underage drinking Richardson
4 students were discovered to be drinking under the age of 21. Alcohol violations issued.

09/28/02 Vandalism to Vehicle Patterson Ct. at Turner
Student reported large dent in right side of vehicle.

09/28/02 Larceny Chambers room 124
Student reported that $40.00 cash was removed from a book bag while he was away.

09/29/02 Vandalism Upper Satellite Lot
Student reported that his passenger's side window had been broken out by someone throwing a rock through it.

09/28/02 Larceny PIKA Fraternity House
Student reported that person(s) removed stereo equipment from apartment without owner's knowledge. Estimated value is $590.00.