Quartet Inaugurates Duke Family Performance Hall
By Jonathan Wu
Special Contributor

The Brazilian Guitar Quartet held a packed crowd at the edge of their seats in the official inauguration of the
Duke Family Performance Hall. Interestingly enough, the group’s leader and most renowned member, Paul Galbraith, is actually Scottish. He moved
to Brazil in 1996, where he quickly embraced the South American culture and started a family as well as the
Brazilian Guitar Quartet.

Galbraith’s style of playing is quite unique, one that is consciously derived from the cello—he plays an eight-string guitar, holding
it almost perpendicular to the floor and supporting it with a metal endpin that rests on a wooden resonance box.
His guitar adds a string tuned to A on both the low and high ends of the guitar’s voice range.
The metal endpin carries the vibrations of the guitar down to the wooden resonance box, which then amplifies the sound
and adds body to the newly created low and high voice ranges of the extra strings. The resonance box also
opens up so that it becomes a nifty guitar case. The resonance box along with the guitar inside is then
placed into a hard case for transportation.

Galbraith is backed up by the two brothers, Edelton and Everton Gloeden, and the “infamous” Tadeu Do Amaral. Edelton’s appearance
and style of playing remind me much of the great violinist Itzhak Perlman. However, it seems to me that this
style fits the violin better than the guitar, for Edelton’s style lacked certain left-hand preparation, making him more liable to
mistakes in the left hand. Everton, who also plays an eight-string guitar, has only recently begun to study the “extended”
instrument—I believe under Galbraith’s tutelage. He provides most of the bass line. Tadeu, or “Tad,” was my favorite of the
four, both to watch and to listen to. His sound was clear, powerful, and precise.

The repertoire of the evening included selections from J.S. Bach, the well-known Brazilian composer Heitor Villa-Lobos, the famous Spaniard Isaac
Albeniz, and the contemporary composers Ronaldo Miranda and Francisco Mignone. All of the pieces were played quite solidly, but my
favorite was the selection by Ronaldo Miranda, Variacoes serias, or Serious Variations. The Variations provided an enjoyable lyrical interplay between
guitars and displayed a playful variation of theme. The energy, technique, and emotion of each of the guitarists came together
to produce what I felt was the piece’s essence, if I may wander into that Platonic realm of ambiguity.

As a whole, though the performance was good, I would not give it my stamp of excellence—however much, or little,
weight that carries. The quartet did play well together, each guitarist being aware of his part in the piece, whether
it be the melody or the accompaniment. However, I was not thoroughly impressed with most of the tone the quartet
offered. With the exception of Amaral, the quartet played too often with a round tone for my taste. I would
attribute the majority of this excess to the acclaimed Galbraith, who generally played the melody since he was the lead
guitar.

In the classical guitar, in order to create a round sound, as opposed to a more metallic sound, one plucks
the strings further from the bridge so that the point of contact lies basically over the soundhole. The rounder sound
is usually used for indications of piano (or “softly”), whereas the brighter sound is used for forte (or “strongly”). And
on special occasions, an even rounder sound (made by plucking the strings even further from the bridge) is used for
particular effects.Plucking even further from the bridge is used as an accent on certain notes to emphasize the climax as
well as adding lyrical flexibility. These interpretive techniques are practiced regularly by the world’s top guitarists, with John Williams leading
the pack. The reason for the occasional use of the very round tone is because, alone, this tone may sound
weak. The best way that I can describe this tone is to use the term “vague.” The vagueness allows for
a wide and flexible range of expression if used appropriately. If overused, however, the melody becomes unstable and wavering. Galbraith’s
wooden resonance box attempts to counteract this by amplifying the sound. However, the volume can only partly guise the tone
quality. In addition, frequent occurrences of the very round tone devalue its worth as a point of climax. If it
might help to understand, those who are familiar with Longinian rhetoric could regard the excess use of round tone as
turgidity. On a lighter note, I was able to enjoy dinner with the musical foursome after the performance. They were
light-hearted and warm as they joked about Brazilian coffee and apparently made bad, yet entertaining puns. I only have the
slightest clue as to their conversation, since I don’t speak Portuguese, or Spanish for that matter. It was still an
enjoyable experience spending the evening with the Brazilian Dream Team.

Jeunet releases creative cinematic import of the year
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Last year it was Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. In 2000 it was All About My Mother, and the year before
that we had Life is Beautiful. The foreign language film darling of 2002, that subtitled film that American audiences embrace,
is Amelie. The characters of the great Babe: Pig in the City existed in a world “just a little to
the left of the twentieth century.” Amelie is set in that same, strange, vibrant world where lamps talk, animals sing,
and chance is a person’s best friend. Director Jean-Pierre Jeunet infuses his film with so much style and energy; it’s
a miracle that Amelie never runs out of steam. Take the wonderful first act, for example. Those first fifteen minutes
play like a marathon of little details of the most (un)important aspects of our lives. We learn about characters’ pet
peeves, their likes, their loves, and whatever else Jeunet feels like disclosing. Revealing a detail as minute and inconsequential as
the diameter of a woman’s calf would not be silly in the context that the filmmakers create. We watch as
one character overlooks Paris and wonders how many couples are having orgasms at a precise moment. Our heroine, Amelie (Audrey
Tautou), is a character so saccharine that even the most bitter of moviegoers will find her irresistible. She is a
quiet girl who lives alone and works at a café called The Two Windmills. Amelie’s discovery of an old box
full of toys sets the plot in motion. She vows to find the box’s owner, and if he is pleased
by the reunion with his childhood mementos, Amelie pledges to do more good deeds. Of course, the owner is touched,
and so Amelie begins her crusade of charity. So here we have a stylistically charming movie about a cute, polite,
good-doer, and yet Amelie never feels too sweet. We feel nothing but affection for this movie and all its ideas
and characters, creepy or sweet. Take the hypochondriac tobacconist and her boyfriend, a disgruntled, jealous man who expresses his sentiments
to his voice recorder. Yes, these characters are fun to watch and laugh at and with, but they’re...

See Amelie, page 6
