From The Sideline
Citius, Altius, Fortius
By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

After 17 days of pageantry, pain, and astonishing performances, Salt Lake City ended the XIX Winter Olympics by extinguishing a
flame and setting off some fireworks. Despite the millions of dollars and thousands of security guards that dominated most (including
my) pre-Games analysis, athletes from 78 countries came together to show sport’s best face. NBC made sure we all learned
the stories behind the story, which, this year, were all too relevant.

From his role in the opening ceremony to his gold medal in men’s skeleton, Jim Shea brought new meaning to
“the Olympic family.” Shea, a third-generation Olympian, won with a picture of his grandfather tucked safely in his American eagle
helmet. A few days later, a Japanese man sent Shea the skates that his grandfather, Jack Shea, wore while winning
two gold medals in the 1932 Lake Placid Games.

Speed skater Apolo Anton Ohno started his own cult with his grace in both victory and defeat—not to mention that
soul patch. When asked, at the closing ceremony, how he would describe his experience at the games, Ohno looked amazed
and said, “No words. Definitely no words.”

And who can forget when, in an incredibly historic women’s figure skating race, Sarah Hughes and her coach, Robin Wagner,
stole the world’s heart with their utter and unrestrained joy. Hughes, in fourth place after Tuesday’s short program, skated an
incredibly free free skate on Thursday, nailing two triple-triples while Wagner went crazy on the sideline. By the way, the
camera operator who shifted focus between the two of them deserves a Friends-size raise.

In all, the United States won 34 medals, more than twice its previous best of 13 and just one behind
leader Germany’s 35. More importantly, though, the United States just plain won. Despite the drama and trauma that is figure
skating and feeble Russian threats to withdraw from the games, every crisis was handled efficiently and without great controversy. IOC
president Jacques Rogge and Salt Lake Olympic president Mitt Romney proved that real reform is taking place in the Games,
going so far as to stay in the athletes’ village and personally delivering a second set of gold medals for
Canadian pair Jamie Sale and David Pelletier.

There were other great stories, including Chris Witty’s gold in 1000-meter women’s speed skating despite still recovering from a long
bout with mononucleosis. American teams won both the silver and bronze in men’s bobsled—the country’s first medals in the event
since 1956. Vonetta Flowers became the first African-American ever to win gold at a Winter Olympics, taking first place with
teammate Jill Bakken in women’s bobsled. And curling finally took its rightful place on the world stage.

After months of holding its breath for a successful games, Utah let out a sigh of relief, releasing two Osmondsauri
and bidding farewell to the Child of Light. Thousands of athletes mingled at the closing celebration, hugging, cheering, and talking
on cell phones to people all over the world, connected as easily as President Bush to Sasha Cohen’s mother. Yeah,
they made it. They’re the world’s greatest.

Wednesday, February 27, 2001

Swimmers shatter records
By KATHERINE CULP
Staff Writer

This past weekend, the Wildcats traveled to Fairfax, Virginia to compete against eight other teams in the Colonial Athletic Association
Championships. Davidson placed eighth at the conference; the women scored 293 points while the men had 212.5.

On the first day, only Jenny Hoekstra ’05 qualified for the finals; several teammates swam in the consolation finals. Hoekstra
placed seventh in the 50 free and earned the second fastest time in Davidson records—24.63. Erin Rosintoski ’04 made the
consolation finals in the 500 free, as did co-captain Beth Summerlin ’02 in the 200 IM. The 400 medley relay
of Shelley Conroy ’02, Sara Laws ’04, Melissa Marquez ’05 and Jenny Hoekstra ’05 placed third, winning a bronze medal
for the Wildcats.

For the men, Robert Koch ’04, Michael Flowers ’05, and Graham Gravley ’02 all qualified for the 500 free, while
Michael Warner ’02 swam the 50 free. Chris Wrobleski was fifth in the one-meter dive, and his score of 228.05
earned 14 points for the team.

On the second day, Shelley Conroy ’02 placed eighth in the 100 fly finals, in 58.97, setting a new record.
In the 100 breast finals, Melissa Marquez ’05 placed eighth in 1:05.92 and shattered the old record. Joanie Gidas ’04
also broke the record. Sara Laws ’04 finished fourth in the finals for the 100 back, and Charlie Hunter ’04
was fourth in the 100 back.

Several swimmers and divers had impressive performances on the final day of competition. Sara Laws ’04 finished second in the
100 back finals, with Trisha Blackwell ’05 in sixth place. Hoekstra placed eighth in the 100 free. She also tied
the school record at 53.30 during the trials. Melissa Marquez finished fourth in the 200 breast in 2:20.83, shattering the
record she had set earlier this year. On the men’s side, Hunter swam the 200 back.in the finals, and Warner
qualified for the consolation finals in the 100 free. Wrobleski placed eighth in the three-meter dive.

Heels too much for ‘Cats
Press RELEASE
Sports Information

The Davidson College women’s lacrosse team suffered a 17-3 defeat at the hands of the University of North Carolina on
Sunday afternoon at Henry Stadium. With the win, UNC improved to 1-0 this season. Davidson fell to 1-1.

Other than McPike, multi-goal scorers for Carolina included Lindsay Stone with three, Kellie Thompson with two, and Brooke Young with
two. Stone and Young added two assists as well.

After a slow start during which neither team scored for the first 7:14 of action, the Tar Heels jumped out
to a 7-0 lead behind three goals from McPike and two from Thompson. The score was 8-1 Carolina at the
break. Davidson got its lone goal of the first half when Whitney Diefendorf intercepted an attempted clear by UNC goalkeeper
Katelyn Hoffman with less than two minutes left before intermission.

The Tar Heels opened up a wider lead in the second half, leading by as many as 14 goals at
15-1 before cruising the rest of the way. McPike scored twice after halftime to bring her total to five goals
in the game. Stone and Young both also scored twice in the second half.

Gibson anchors
By Liz Gross & Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Staff Writers

High expectations weren’t disappointed this past weekend as the men’s track and field team traveled to Johnston City, TN, to
compete in the Southern Conference Indoor Track and Field Championships. The Wildcats were coming off of several weeks of high
competition and outstanding performances, which prepared them for this weekend's meet. Hard work paid off as the men placed seventh
with a total of 17 points.

Once again, senior co-captain Dan Gibson anchored the Wildcats with strong results. Gibson turned in an exhilarating performance, winning the
3000-meter run on Friday and then coming back on Saturday afternoon to place third in the 5000-meter run, earning 16
of the team’s 17 points.

“More than anything, I’m relieved,” Gibson said. “Winning is always the goal and often the expectation, and for once I
got the job done. Hopefully, I can make a habit of it now that the first one is out of
the way.”

Gibson’s times in both the 3000-meter and 5000-meter runs are new school records. The previous 3000-meter record was held by
recent graduate Brent Farrell, which Gibson’s time of 8:32.15 shattered by four seconds. His time of 14:59.22 in the 5000-meter
broke his own record from the 2000 season.

More records were broken by the men’s 4x400 relay. The team of Greg Schermecke, Chris Rouisse, Freddie Bowie, and Paul
Wyatt ran an impressive 3:26.57, earning the team sixth place and scoring the remaining points for the Wildcats.

Elsewhere on the track, sophomore Greg Scott qualified for the finals of the men’s 800-meter for the second year in
a row. His qualifying time of 1:56.30 was a season and personal best. Scott placed eighth in the finals with
a time of 1:58.71.

Junior co-captain Greg Schermecke led the Wildcats in the sprints, as he was Davidson’s top finisher in the 55-meter, 200-meter,
and 400-meter. His times were all season’s bests. Schermecke ran 6.68 in the 55-meter, 23.24 in the 200-meter, and 51.80
in the 400-meter.

Senior Jay Jahnes was Davidson’s top finisher in the mile, winning the first heat with a time of 4:24.33. He
was closely followed by sophomore teammate Ben Gaspar, who finished in 4:27.10.

Young but determined, the women’s track and field team completed its indoor season this past weekend with a ninth-place finish
at the 2002 Southern Conference Championships. The Wildcats traveled to Johnson City, TN, to compete on the 280-meter indoor track
at the East Tennessee State University Memorial Center from Friday to Saturday, Feb. 22-23.

Appalachian State defended its indoor conference title with 139 points, some 28 points ahead of the second-place team. The award
stand was reserved for 21 Mountaineer athletes who earned all-conference accolades over the weekend.

The two points that earned Davidson its ninth-place slot came from sophomore Laura Puckett. Her time of 18:38.02 in the
5,000-meter run was good enough for fifth place and the sole point tally for the Wildcats.

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies presents:
“Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism”

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a fellowship program entitled “Defending
Democracy, Defeating Terrorism.” The fellowship program will commence August 3-21 in Tel Aviv and will allow participants to interact with
academics, diplomats, and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the United States. FDD fellows will be provided with
all room, board, and travel expenses. FDD is a non-profit, non-partisan, and non-ideological think tank that promotes informed debate about
policies and positions that will most effectively abolish international terrorism.

Questions? Email fellows@defenddemocracy.org
For additional details and application visit www.defenddemocracy.org
