By Katie MEYER
Staff Writer

Buy a paper hammer. Stick it on your window. On most days, this would seem ridiculous, but in September, a
paper hammer on your window will signify participation in Davidson’s efforts to raise money for the Wildcat House. The hammer
sales are one of many fundraisers developed by Davidson students and faculty to support upcoming projects by Davidson College’s Habitat
for Humanity. If everyone on campus, including faculty and staff, contributes to purchasing these $10 hammers, Habitat would raise nearly
$10,000. That equals the cost of building nearly one-fifth of a Habitat house.

Led by Casey Sams ‘03, Ann Marie Wesneski ‘04, and Kelley Hubbell ‘03, the organization hopes to collect $50,000. If
they raise an additional $5500, students will travel to Guatemala to build four more Wildcat Houses under the guidance of
the Office of Community Service. “When we started planning this event the student group hoped to break ground in the
2003-2004 school year and complete the building that year. The president has challenged us to begin building in the spring
of 2003. The student group has the energy and initiative through partnerships and their own endeavors to try and bring
in enough funds in this semester to make that happen,” commented service coordinator Rosie Molinary.

Unlike other Davidson Habitat projects, students, faculty, staff, and alumni will take control of each aspect of this endeavor. “During
the semester our Habitat volunteers typically spend three weekends helping other sponsors with Habitat houses. However, with this house, Davidson
students will be solely responsible for funding and construction,” explained Sams. Aiding the students with raising money will be Davidson’s
Development Office through the writing of grants and seeking of materials from local stores.

Another campus-wide event will be the PCC Construction Gala on October 19. Shaw Hipsher ‘03, PCC Service Chair, heads the
planning committee for the construction gala. Made up of faculty, students, and community service, Union Board and PCC representatives, this
cooperative event includes Habitat speakers, dessert, music, and a hypnotist. Paul Leonard, President of the Habitat International Board and a
Davidson graduate, will address the Davidson community at the event. A current Habitat house owner will also attend and Davidson
singing and musical groups will perform. This event is made possible by a “triumvirate of PCC, Union Board, and the
Davidson College Habitat chapter,” said Hipsher.

“This isn’t going to be something Davidson College Habitat can do alone or PCC or Union Board. We’ve all got
to take the initiative and work together. This will be symbolic of the school coming together and creating something. A
lot of students do their own service projects and put in hours with their own groups, but I think it
will be cool to see what we can do together. I think it’s going to be inspiring to see the
relationships grow and blossom between these groups and the community,” said Hipsher.

If you’re interested in helping with fundraising, contact Casey Sams, Ann Marie Wesneski, or Kelley Hubbell. If you’re interested in
working on the Construction Gala, contact Shaw Hipsher. For more information about this project, visit www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/habitat/wildcathouse.htm.

Paper hammers, PCC raise funds for Wildcat House
Red BikeProgram in Question
By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

On Thursday, August 25, SGA senators started a fresh semester with discussion on a variety of topics, including their involvement
in the Sept. 11 anniversary events and the community bicycle program. President Gray Patterson ’03 explained that while the College’s
plans for Sept. 11, 2002, are still in the works, the SGA will play a major role in the events
on campus throughout the day of remembrance. Chaplain Rob Spach has headed up a committee of professors and students to
plan the events that will take place that day. SGA will be in charge of leading a morning communal gathering
around the flagpole, as well as an evening program in the Union.

The other major topic of conversation at the meeting was the failing Red Bike program. Though newcomers to campus may
be unaware of the fact, Davidson has sponsored this community bike program for the past few years. In the past,
20 “red bikes” have been available for students to ride around campus and the town. Much to the chagrin of
the program’s founders and appreciative riders, irresponsible students and/or townspeople have vandalized these bikes in the past. In recent memory,
the red bikes have been thrown off balconies, against lampposts, on top of the Martin Court bulletin board, and often
bent beyond usefulness.

Senator Adam Gerstenmier ’05 chairs the SGA Red Bike Committee that was formed at the beginning of last year. Last
spring, in an attempt to reduce the amount of repair work that was necessary to maintain the program, SGA began
picking up the bikes from around campus each Friday afternoon and redistributing them on Sundays. SGA’s hope that this would
diminish the program’s costs faded after several incidents of vandalism last semester. At the SGA meeting, many senators voiced a
strong desire to put an end to their control of the Red Bike program. The decision may be made to
donate the Red Bikes to Davidson Outdoors, where students would have to check the bikes out in order to use
them.

SGA’s feelings about this issue seem to disappoint Gerstenmier, and he feels that the SGA senators may not be correctly
reflecting the feelings of the student body. “I can think of no reason why students would not want a community
bike program in place. It is a fun and convenient program, and there is nothing like finding a red bike
in satellite when you park your car at night,” I was told by a sophomore friend the other night,” Gerstenmier
said. Gerstenmier also mentions that the continual abuse of these bikes “shows the possibility of flaws in the Code of
Responsibility here at Davidson.” Patterson added that he “would hate to see the program stop, particularly if it stopped because
students were destroying them even though it is an Honor Code violation. That has larger consequences outside of a few
red bikes.”

Gerstenmier asks for any students who feel adamant about the continuation of the Red Bike program on campus to voice
their thoughts to SGA and Davidson Outdoors.

Campus-wide forum on Social Life at Davidson College with President Vagt and Dean Shandley
Tuesday, Sept. 10
8:00 PM in the C. Shaw Smith Room, Alvarez College Union
