By Mike Gicio
Staff Writer

After a 15-17 finish last year and the resignation of its head coach in May, the Davidson Volleyball team worked hard throughout the off-season to ensure that the upcoming campaign would get off to a positive start. Led by new head coach Tim Cowie and new assistant coach Ann Leedy, the Wildcats entered their first test of the season this past weekend at the Robert Morris King’s Classic in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, hoping to begin working on their goals of surpassing last year’s record and finishing well in what should be a very formidable Southern Conference.

Taking three of four games in the tournament, the ‘Cats appear to be well on their way towards accomplishing those goals. They began the weekend with a victory over Niagara, led by sophomore Julia Hueckel’s team-high fifteen kills and strong performances from senior Rebecca Teichgraeber and junior Latisha Chapman. The team kept up its solid play in the second game of the event, soundly defeating Navy in just over one hour. Chapman, Hueckel, and Teichgraeber again led the way, with Chapman posting a .474 attack percentage. Senior Roberta Quis, last year’s co-MVP, also made her presence felt as she recorded seven kills and took part in three blocks.

The Wildcats took a step back in Saturday’s first match, however, suffering their first loss of the season to Stony Brook in a game which coach Cowie says his team let get away. “We didn’t play as well against Stony Brook and let one slip, but we were nonetheless able to put it all together and beat the host school Robert Morris in the next match,” Cowie noted. Saturday evening’s victory over Robert Morris, who has been to the NCAA tournament each of the past three years, was due in large part to the dominating middle play of Quis and Chapman, as Quis recorded sixteen kills and took part in five blocks while Chapman posted twelve putaways to go along with seven blocks.

“The middle is definitely our strength,” Cowie said. “Both Tish and Roberta dominated and made the difference in our wins.” The team used the tournament to make valuable assessments on its strengths and weaknesses and to provide an opportunity for the players to gel both with one another and with the new coaches. According to coach Cowie, the team did just that. “A lot of the focus of this weekend was on getting used to the new coaching staff,” he says. “The team responded well.”

With this weekend’s victories fresh in their minds, the players and coaches have high hopes for the season ahead. Roberta Quis reflected this positive mindset. “Our season is off to a great start. We were able to see the rewards of all those hours spent in the gym during the preseason. Everyone is looking forward to a great season.” Teichgraeber agrees, “This weekend’s results were a good jumping-off point that will hopefully set the tone for the rest of our season. While the competition was not the best we will face, it’s always nice to get a few wins on the board in order to ease into our schedule with a feeling of confidence.”

As they face a tough schedule throughout the year, the ‘Cats will need to use that confidence to drive them to victory. Confidence and focus will be the keys to the success of the team. “We’re going to approach the season from one match to the next and focus on each individual game as it comes along,” Cowie commented. “We’ll be right in the fight for the conference championship as long as we can stay healthy and keep working hard.”

Davidson returns to action this weekend when they host the Wildcat Classic. Action begins Friday evening and will conclude next Tuesday, as the ‘Cats take on Coastal Carolina, Southeastern Louisiana, North Carolina A&T, and Furman.

Former NYU coach takes reins of volleyball program

A new era of Davidson volleyball starts in 2002 as Tim Cowie takes hold of the reins. For the past two years, Cowie was in charge of New York University’s women’s volleyball team. Last season, the Division III Violets finished 17-14 overall, including wins over NCAA Division II Pace University, as well as University Athletic Association rivals Brandeis, Rochester, Chicago, Case Western, and then-number-one-ranked Washington University. In his rookie campaign at NYU, Cowie led the Violets to a 22-12 overall record, including aFirst-place finish at the Scranton Invitational, a second-place finish at the SUNY-Oneonta Red Dragon Invitational, and a third-place finish at the UAA Championships. For his efforts, Cowie and his assistants, Christa Rosa and Stacey Moline, were named UAA Co-Coaching Staff of the Year. While at New York University, he recruited student-athletes that included All-Americans, NCAA All-Regions, an NCAA All-Region Freshman of the Year, and UAA All-Conference players. Cowie joined NYU after four seasons as head coach of the nationally-recognized women’s volleyball team at the Rochester Institute of Technology. While at R.I.T., Cowie led the Tigers to a 125-43 overall record. His teams earned four consecutive NCAA Division III Tournament bids and advanced into the second round all four years. His first collegiate head-coaching experience came during the 1995-96 season. Cowie served as coach of the men’s volleyball club team at the University of Rochester and led the program to its first-ever winning season with a 14-3 record. A 1988 graduate of Roberts Wesleyan College with a degree in business administration, Cowie held many positions at his alma mater. He was an assistant women’s volleyball coach at RWC from 1985-88 and went on to become the men’s basketball assistant coach (1989-1994). He returned to women’s volleyball during the 1995-96 season. In addition to his responsibilities at Davidson, Cowie serves on the NCAA Volleyball Rules Committee. He is also a voter on the AVCA (American Volleyball Coaches Association) Coaches Poll and All-America Committee. A native of Oshawa, Ontario, Cowie and his wife Gwen have three children - Emmily (5), Tim Jr. (3), and Ryan (1).

--Sports Information

The Wildcats tied Lehigh 1-1 on Sunday afternoon. Only 69 minutes into the season, freshman David Sartorio gave the Wildcats their first goal, assisted by junior Nick Hansell. Lehigh struck back with a late goal and the teams remained at a stalemate after regulation. Both teams managed only two shots on goal in the extra frame, and the match ended in a 1-1 tie. A strong showing against a well-organized team like Lehigh, however, was a good way to start the regular season. “It was a great game and a well-deserved tie for both teams,” explained head coach Matt Spear after the game. “Hansell showed excellent composure in setting up our goal. Overall, we’re happy with how we played, especially against a team like Lehigh.” The team was pleased with the well-earned tie but immediately began preparing for their next match against the tournament host. Wearing down the Black Knights in the first half, Davidson eventually struck first as Hansell took a pretty pass from freshman Matt Allen to give the ‘Cats an early advantage that they would not relinquish. Hansell notched his second goal of the day and knocked off host Army. “We are excited to win the tournament by defeating a hard-working Army side,” commented Spear. “It’s always a tough game on the road, and the history of West Point only added to the obstacle at hand.” Senior goalkeeper Soren Johnson, who recorded his 14th career shutout against Army, made five saves against both Lehigh and Army. Having lost eight seniors and seven starters to graduation, Spear will look for the upperclassmen to display strong leadership and for the freshmen to step up when needed. “Captains David Peoples and Joel Sadler, along with goalie Soren Johnson, have done a great job to bring the group together quickly,” said Spear. “Our freshmen showed confidence and composure, while the upperclassmen displayed experience and maturity,” he stated. The Wildcats return to action on Saturday night when they travel to Chapel Hill to take on the defending national champions, the Tar Heels. “The past two seasons we have enjoyed very good 11-8 seasons,” added Spear, “but we look forward to starting over with new goals and a fresh approach.”

FAMILY CUTS Hair Salon (Under New Management)
704-896-8440
Haircuts - Color - Styling - Perms - Waxing
No Appointment Necessary (Recommended for color and perms)
Open 7 Days a Week
Mon-Fri. 9:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m.
Saturday 9:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.
Sunday 1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.
20121 #C North Main St. Cornelius
Cornelius Town Center
Exit 28 (115 and Catawba Ave.)
Located near the Food Lion
Retail and Skin care Products available.
10% off all services to Davidson Students
Stylists: Kim, Ashley, Dana
20% OFF expires 08/05/02