AOR ne ap ts asne, Leslie Smith of Fairfax, Va., and a member of the women’s lacrosse team, sprints to victory in the 66th Annual Cake Race as senior and fellow lacrosse player Emily Rice cheers her on. Smith finished in 10:39, just three seconds ahead of second place finisher Jenny Soldano of Columbus, Ohio. The men’s race proved to be an even closer affair, with cross-country runner Jonathan Baker edging out teammates Austin Mercadante, Walker Saik, and Joe Taylor by a mere two seconds. Soccer player David Sartorio put forth a valiant effort on the home stretch, only to finish fifth.

Golfers struggle at Mid-Pines Invitational
Young, untested linksters expect good things
By BEN WHITMAN
Staff Writer

At the dawn of a new golf season, one can only wonder what’s in store for this year’s team. It would seem that with the return of seven lettermen and three highly lauded freshmen, this may indeed be the year to “put Davidson golf on the map,” as sophomore Peyton Gallagher said. Coach Tim Straub, affectionately known to some team members as ‘the quiet storm,’ is also optimistic about his squad: “Our team is young, with only one senior, but we are more talented than ever before.” Adds the lone senior and team captain, Ben Friedell, “This is the best team I’ve ever been a part of at Davidson.”

So what’s behind all the hype? After graduating only one player, this team is poised to do some impressive things on the golf course. Notes sophomore Dan Koernke, “The Southern Conference is never easy, but this team still has the ability to compete with anyone.” In addition to Koernke, expect to be hearing plenty from tournament-proven veterans like Jon Kropski, Joe Zimmerman, Dan Walker, and Friedell. The future of Davidson golf is also looking bright with the arrival of three impressive freshmen: Tim Dillon, Christian Davis, and Pat McConville. This extremely talented rookie trio will add even more weapons to an already potent lineup. And although last year’s team was certainly skillful, this season’s squad adds much more consistency to complement the returning talent. Said Gallagher: “I see our team being much more consistent and a solid force to be reckoned with this year.”

Last year’s frustrations meant increased efforts during the off-season for most of the team. Most notably, sophomore Jeff Hamilton, hailing from Belmont, Massachusetts, earned a spot as an alternate for the prestigious U.S. Amateur tournament this past summer. “It is an exciting time to play golf at Davidson,” according to Koernke. If everything comes together as planned, this year’s team could make a run for the Southern Conference Championship.

The official season began on Monday when the team traveled to Pinehurst for the UNCG Mid Pines Invitational, a two-day tournament, where it hoped to start the season off with a solid performance. But the ‘Cats stumbled off the starting blocks, finishing 13th in a field of just 14 teams by shooting a three-round total of 907 (302-309-296). Davis led all players, shooting 223 (74-76-73) to finish seven over par and in 29th place. Friedell posted a 224 (74-77-73), putting him in a tie for 35th. Rounding out the scoring for Davidson were Dillon (77-76-75), Kropski (77-83-75), and sophomore Dan Walker (79-80-76). And so it appears that this year’s squad certainly has the potential to do great things, but with an abundance of youthful talent, the best may still be down the road. The team will travel to Sunset...Beach, N.C., to compete in the Sea Trail Intercollegiate on Sept. 21-22.

Wednesday, September 11, 2002

Field hockey still perfect in conference action
Three goals in 11 minutes help down Saint Francis
By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

The Davidson Field Hockey team went one for two in its weekend games against Saint Francis and American University. Last Friday, the Cats defeated Saint Francis 4-1 at Appalachian State. Davidson quickly grabbed the lead by scoring three goals in the first eleven minutes. Senior Agnes Bateman took the initiative by scoring an unassisted goal at the 29:40 mark of the first half. Fellow senior, Amanda Strickland, had an exceptional night for the Cats. She scored two consecutive goals following Bateman’s tally to put the Cats on top 3-0. Bateman assisted Strickland’s first goal, while her second, scored less than a minute later, was unassisted. Sophomore Liz Schoening completed the Cats’ scoring for the night when she took a pretty feed from junior Kathleen Fenn at the 26:41 mark of the second half. Marissa Lynn scored Saint Francis’ only goal with 13:49 remaining in the second half.

While the Cats dominated play in the first half, the Red Flash stepped up their game in the second frame, creating a more even match. Fenn and Allison Matlack were the key ball controllers in the game for Davidson. With their help, the Cats defense held Saint Francis to only five shots and five penalty corners. Davidson had more opportunities with 11 corners, and a total of 15 shots.

Sarah Nolan made 2 saves for the Cats to pick up the win, while Monica Nicoles made 4 saves for Saint Francis.

The Cats took the field again on Sunday against American University at Wake Forest. The American Eagles squeaked out a 2-1 victory to hand Davidson its first loss of the season. The game began in Davidson’s favor when Jane-Garnet Ishon scored an unassisted goal, her second on the year, 15 minutes into the game. The Eagles did not respond until the final minute of the first half. American’s senior All-American candidate, Magdalena Aguiler, scored on a reverse stick off a pass from freshman Heather Maranzano. American took control in the second half by outshooting Davidson 10-0, and taking 8 corners to Davidson’s 0. Davidson’s Sarah Nolan remained strong in the face of American’s numerous offensive opportunities, making seven saves for the Cats. With 12:30 left to play, Aguiler connected with Sarah Carpenter for the game-winning goal off of a corner pass.

Following the tough loss, the Cats are still very optimistic about the still young season. Senior standout Bateman provided a hopeful reflection: “Overall, we played two great games this weekend. We’ve proved to ourselves, and others, that we are a strong and competitive team. In the game against American we had our moments, but now we have a more concrete focus. In preparation for our next game, we simply need to work on becoming a more consistent team.”

The Cats remain undefeated in the NorPac Conference (1-0) and 2-1 overall. Davidson returns home next Saturday against Catawba University in a game scheduled to begin at 1 p.m.

For scholarship and enrollment information, visit Major Leslie in No. 7 Jackson Court or call (704) 892-2165.