10/09/02 Bike rack outside Chambers, larceny of bicycle.

Unknown person(s) removed bicycle without a trace.

10/09/02 Bike rack outside Richardson dorm, larceny of bicycle.

Unknown person(s) removed bicycle without a trace.

10/09/02 Upper Satellite lot, breaking & entering/larceny.

Unknown person(s) entered vehicle and removed items therein.

10/10/02 Front of Irwin, arson to a chair.

Unknown person(s) set fire to a chair. Investigation pending.

10/10/02 Upper Satellite lot, breaking & entering/larceny.

Unknown person(s) entered vehicle and removed items therein.

10/10/02 Upper Satellite lot, breaking & entering/attempted vehicle theft.

Unknown person(s) entered vehicle in an attempt to steal it.

Nelson Lane, larceny of golf carts.

Officers made contact with two juveniles driving golf carts belonging to the College at 4:30 a.m. When confronted, the juveniles admitted to stealing the carts. Both were trespassed and turned over to their parents. Criminal charges may follow.

10/12/02

10/18/02 Martin Court parking area, vandalism.

Unknown person(s) removed side mirror from vehicle.

10/19/02 Patterson Court parking area, vandalism.

Unknown person(s) placed a bicycle on a vehicle causing damage to the vehicle.

10/19/02 Black Student Coalition, vandalism.

Unknown person(s) spray-painted graffiti on the side of the house.

10/19/02 Martin Court parking area, vandalism.

Unknown person(s) smashed the windshield of victim’s vehicle.

10/21/02 Martin Court parking area, breaking & entering/attempted theft.

Unknown person(s) broke window and attempted to hotwire vehicle.

West Dorm laundry, larceny.

Unknown person(s) removed three pairs of jeans without a trace.

10/21/02

10/21/02 West Dorm bike rack, vandalism.

Unknown person(s) removed unlocked bike and damaged it.

***ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardi Gras.

TRAVEL FREE, Reps Needed, EARN $$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1-888-THINK-SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626)

www.springbreakdiscounts.com ***

Ask about our US Stylists $20 cut & style -

spa packages hair services nail care

Lawsuit, Cont. page

He earned GPAs of 3.7, 3.4, and 3.7 during the three trimesters of his senior year, in addition to scoring 1,250 on the SAT.

The lawsuit also makes reference to, but does not explain, a “disciplinary note” that was included in the file sent to Davidson by Bedford’s school.

On the court, Bedford was rated No. 13 by NJ Hoops in its annual listing of the state’s top junior basketball players, and averaged 15 points per game in his first season at Lawrenceville.

Bedford will join the Amherst basketball team when practice begins in November. But as a Division III program, the Jeffs do not offer scholarships. Tuition at Amherst costs as much as $40,000 a year, and Bedford’s lawyer says his client pays nearly full price.

One college recruiting expert said he knows of no previous cases in which a recruit has sued a basketball coach over a scholarship offer. Dave Telep, director of scouting for TheInsiders.com, a college basketball website, said it’s unlikely such a suit would ever succeed given the hazy regulations governing college recruiting.

“As much as a prospect has the right to change his mind, the coaching staff can change its mind, too,” he said. “It’s a total two-way street, and that’s the only way you can look at it. That’s just the nature of this business.”

Telep said the fact it involves a coach as respected as McKillop makes the suit even more far-fetched.

“You're talking about a guy who has a sterling reputation in college basketball,” he said. “In his peer group, people look up to Bob McKillop... I just don’t think a suit like this can succeed.”

Another expert said the legal grounds for the lawsuit appear shaky.

In a story about the case in Monday’s Bergen Record (N.J.), John Kettle, a Rutgers University law professor who specializes in contract and entertainment law, said proving McKillop’s letters and phone conversations amounted to a contract would be difficult, because Bedford never signed a written document.

However, Kettle said the letters signified a “pretty strong statement by Davidson that there was at least intent to contract.”

Robert Jarvis, a sports law professor in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., told the Record that even if Davidson offered a settlement, the best Bedford could hope for is $30,000, the equivalent of one year’s tuition, because “scholarships are offered as one-year contracts that can be renewed or canceled each year.”

On Monday, Bedford’s attorney told The Davidsonian he was confident the case would succeed, but cautioned that his client isn’t out to tarnish the reputation of the coach with the most wins (205) in Davidson history.

“This lawsuit is not meant to attack Coach McKillop’s career or legacy,” he said. “We’re dealing with John’s situation.”

One current Wildcats player was surprised to hear of the lawsuit on Tuesday, saying he has always had full confidence in McKillop.

“Coach has been nothing but honest, dependable, trustworthy,” said senior Peter Anderer. “I can’t imagine someone bringing charges like this on Coach.”

Rusk celebrates 25 years

By ALYSSA SINCLAIR Special Contributor

Rusk Eating House celebrated its 25th anniversary Saturday, Oct. 5 after the Homecoming football game.

Rusk was founded as the first all-women’s eating-house in 1977, four years after women were fully admitted at Davidson.

Every year, Rusk opens the house to alumnae during Homecoming weekend. This year, invitations went out to over 1300 alumnae inviting them back for the event. Rusk members sold 25th anniversary t-shirts to raise money for Habitat for Humanity. Alumnae looked through old photo albums over champagne and caught up with old friends.

Because Rusk will be undergoing renovation next spring, this was the last chance for many alumnae to see the house as they have known it for the past 25 years. Over 400 attended the event.

For more on women on court, see page 4

Spring Break