Frats, from page | ship,” he pays meal dues and is allowed to eat at the house and attend parties.
A chapter’s ritual functions, however, are reserved only for “those deemed worthy by the bid process,” said Swansbrough. Social members
may not participate in ritual functions, but they are still allowed to participate in Greek life. While the fraternity aspect
of Court life is more exclusive than the eating house system, the social member option ensures that any male interested
in the Court may participate.

and celebration of the life of College, local community join to celebrate Martin Luther King Day

By ROLAND F. Foss
Staff Writer

With unquestionably the longest program of events and the largest and most diverse turnout, Davidson College celebrated Martin Luther King,
Jr. Day. Mr. Ernest Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Students and chairman of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Committee, who
organized the events, felt that the commemoration came together “exactly as we hoped and prayed.” For the first time, all—faculty,
students, and staff—were able to participate in a program that included movie presentations, prayer, food, Gospel music, and speeches. President
Robert Vagt assured this writer that this year’s celebration was different because it “made it possible for so many people
to be here,” and also—remarking on the use of the Duke Family Performance Hall—because a new facility was utilized for
the occasion.

The two-day remembrance of Dr. King started on Sunday with a “Gospel Explosion” of music that included the Davidson College
Gospel Choir. The following morning Rev. Chiffie Tumblin of Davidson’s Gethsemane Baptist Church gave a talk at a Unity Prayer
Breakfast in Vail Commons. Later on Monday morning was the King Day for Kids, where talks were given amongst the
children concerning multiculturalism and the civil rights movement. Perhaps the highlight of the holiday came at midday, when at least
a couple hundred packed the new Duke Family Performance Hall to pray, to listen, and to stomp their feet and
clap their hands. Rev. Charles White, Director of the seven-state Region 5 of the NAACP, gave a rousing talk, emphasizing
that Dr. King was much more than simply a civil rights activist—at heart he was a “deep thinker” who was
committed to such things as nuclear disarmament and global peace. He also implored the audience not to forget about the
“third dimension,” reminding us to revel in God’s creation—not only man’s. Following Rev. White was the six-person Ronica & The
Mighty Blazing Stars, who thoroughly entertained the audience.

After a lunch in the Union, a civil rights-themed film was shown in Room 302 of the Union. At the
same time, Mr. John Dover, Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid, talked about “Applying the Dream: Dealing with Multiculturalism
on College Campuses.” The theme of this presentation was: “How would your life change if you were of a different
race/culture?” Keeping this in mind, Mr. Dover presented several vignettes and a film, culminating in a group workshop. “Darkness cannot
drive out darkness, only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that.”entertained the audience
with their emotional and electric music. At one point, half the audience was standing and clapping along. Mr. Thomas Shandley,
Dean of Students, thought that the holiday ought to be one in which the “whole community celebrates, because the life
and mission of Martin Luther King changed all of our lives for the better.” Indeed, throughout the two days, and
especially during the convocation in Duke Hall, it seemed that community representation was very strong.

“...can do that.” - Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Meanwhile, Dr. Karl Plank, Chair of the Religion Department, spoke on “Praying with One’s Feet: Abraham Joshua Heschel, Martin Luther
King, and the Pursuit of Civil Rights.” A worship service in Love Auditorium marked the end of the celebration. As
became clear throughout the day: “On this great day we honor one, but we also celebrate the lives of many,”
Joey Harris ’02, President of the SGA remarked.

Weeknight parties can go on to 2 a.m.

Noise, from page 1

standard referred to residence hall life specifically.” To correct the enforcement of the new policy, McKelvey notes that he has
“pointed out the distinction of Patterson Court houses regarding quiet hours to my staff.” Officers now distinguish between Patterson Court
and the rest of campus in their enforcement of quiet hours and have adopted new policy and procedure when responding
to noise complaints. Now, after receiving a complaint, “an officer is dispatched to the area where the noise is reported
to be originating from to determine the level and have it turned down. If the officer is dispatched on a
second complaint and it is found that the volume had been turned back up, the source of the noise is
shut off,” noted McKelvey. “When they receive a noise complaint, officers agree with the house on the noise level and
will respond with another complaint. If the noise level has been noticeably turned up since last time, the party will
be shut down,” said Patterson. Now parties can last indefinitely if houses abide by policy by maintaining a decent noise
level and turning down music when asked. The key is the avoidance of noise complaints. Patterson noted three benefits from
this new system. “People can now stay out as long as possible, a better relationship between officers and the Court
is possible, and the Court can demonstrate more responsibility in general.” Students are reminded that the new policy applies only
to unregistered parties and that registered parties on the weekend still must end at 2 a.m. The new system has
now been in progress for a few weeks and worked well last semester. Now, police only get involved when asked
by complaints and thus will no longer shut down weeknight, unregistered parties early and with no warning. According to McKelvey,
“the campus police are hoping for the cooperation of student organizations in assuring that, after notice is given that noise
levels are excessive, the volume is turned down to an acceptable level and remains there.” So far, “there have not
been any further problems or misunderstandings since the initial incident was reviewed.”
