Staff Columnist

As we enter this holiday season, it is fitting to reflect on all the American people have to be thankful for following the recent election. In addition to giving President Bush the Senate votes he needs to advance his agenda, the Republican victory has served to illuminate the true nature of the Democratic Party. Throughout the Clinton years, Democrats attempted to portray themselves as the middle-of-the-road party while ruthlessly assaulting Republicans as reactionaries hell-bent on turning America into a theistic police state. Despite his many faults, Clinton did sign NAFTA and welfare reform into law, both of which were primarily Republican initiatives. However, beginning with Al Gore’s acceptance speech at the 2000 Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, the Democratic Party has been swinging steadily to the left. This trend culminated in recent weeks, with Nancy Pelosi being named House Minority Leader and Gore himself making the rounds on cable news channels advocating a single-payer health care system (God help our neighbors to the North should he ever become President — Mexico is a long way to drive for an ultrasound).

What the recent election has done is make clear that the Republican Party is in touch with the American mainstream. The recent success of conservative Republicans shows that voters want low taxes, small, unobtrusive bureaucracies, a strong military, personalized retirement plans, and safety from terrorists. As Oregon demonstrated, Hillary-Care does not appear to be high on the voters’ wish list. The Democrats seem completely oblivious to this trend. Rather than trying to reach out to a large bloc of independent voters—who are currently swinging Republican—they are attempting to energize their liberal base by moving even more to the left. However, as Bob Novak recently suggested in the Chicago Sun-Times, the Democratic base is simply not large enough to consistently win national elections. Since the early 1980s, the American people have been leaning noticeably to the right. It is no mistake that the only Democratic president since then was fairly centrist. The Democrats’ obliviousness to the current political reality will quite possibly become the best thing to happen to the GOP since the election of Ronald Reagan. Currently, the GOP offers the American people most of what they want and very little of what they don’t. Unless the Democratic Party realizes its message is not in tune with the wishes of the voters, they could find themselves in the minority for years to come.

We didn’t ask the ‘wrong’ questions

In a recent letter to the editor, Professor Denham in the German department criticized the students of Public Opinion 319 for asking the “wrong” questions in a survey. He wrote that the number of minority students graduating with a major does not tell the proper story about diversity in a department. He went on to explain other interesting facts, such as how the German department gives financial aid to minorities who study abroad. Even if what Denham claimed is true, he misinterpreted the goal of the survey, just as he said reporter Rob Heindrick did in his Nov. 13 article. Since when is asking a student “what is your major?” a “wrong” question? We did not create the survey to point fingers at those majors with less diversity, or to imply “patterns and trends that may not even exist.” We simply wanted to capture students’ opinions on a diverse array of issues. Our class could have asked narrower questions about how many minorities participated in study-abroad programs or “German” classes. But is there really anything wrong with the general, yet concise questions we asked the student body? We think not. Despite Denham’s claim, the patterns explained in the Nov. 13 article really do exist and are in fact irrefutable. The data for the article are the actual ethnic background and major of the members of the Class of 2002. Despite its headline, the article does not include any data from our survey. How one chooses to interpret the article’s data is different. We had nothing to do with the publication of the “big graph” which Professor Denham argues assigns blame to the German department for being an oh-so-white major. Yet, even if the purpose of the survey were to “uncover” minority students’ preferences for majors, German would still fall behind. The truth is, as Professor Denham stated himself, German has not graduated a single minority student in years. And it is great that one in 10 participants in the German study-abroad program is a minority, but this figure means nothing unless compared to other majors. Let us stress that graduating minority students from a major does not necessarily prove diversity in a department. Professor Denham is right about that, but his basis for finding fault in our work is not. It seems he too was quick to misread both the Nov. 13 article and the objective of our survey.

Students of Public Opinion, Political Science 319

Jump on the Wildcats’ bandwagon

Sitting in the midst of a few thousand Cameron Crazies, a handful of Davidson basketball fans and I were the only ones in the stadium screaming with 1:06 remaining in the game. Thanks to a Wayne Bernard lay-up, the Wildcats had pulled to within six points of the Blue Devils in what is arguably the most difficult college arena to play in as a visiting team. Seldom have I been so proud to be a Davidson student. The fight that our Wildcats showed to pull within six points of the No. 4 BlueDevils showed the special character this team must have. Coming off a season in which we won the Southern Conference and nearly knocked off Ohio State in the first round of the NCAA tournament, this is a great way to start a new season. What I really want to pose is a challenge to the Davidson students. I realized standing in the middle of all those damn Dukies that we as a student body owe it to ourselves and our school to go out and support our basketball team—and every other team—as vivaciously and boisterously as we possibly can. Davidson is a school seeking to gain national recognition. Please, you have to admit it pisses you off when someone says, “Now, where is Davidson exactly?”

Following the Duke game, Linda Cohn of SportsCenter said something along the lines of, “We here at ESPN ask ourselves every year after this game: Where is Davidson College?” Obviously, Cohn’s comment is annoying, but that’s the reality—people just don’t know where our college is located. Think about how much national recognition Duke has gained simply by being well known for its basketball arena and the fans that camp out for days to get tickets. Granted, Duke is a fine academic institution with fantastic graduate programs, but from an undergraduate standpoint Davidson is just as strong, if not stronger. Simply put, Duke’s basketball program and its national exposure correlate directly. Come on Davidson, let’s get out there and support this team. Belk Arena is a great atmosphere for college hoops. The lower student sections provide kids with a great vantage point right on top of the play. If you are one of those people who get a huge rise out of screaming at opposing players who can actually hear you, come to Belk—we need you.

So here’s the deal. We are going to come out in full force to all basketball home games this year and henceforth. When it’s 7 p.m. and you are in the library grinding away at some homework assignment that you don’t really need to do, just think how much more fun you could be having sitting and cheering on your school with a few thousand other fans. And next time that person says to you, “What’s that Davidson College like? Where is it?” Just think, “I need to go to more basketball games.”

Jeff Hamilton ‘05

by Jeremy Trantham

Can’t go home again? I’ve got 1 more chance

Hendersonville, NC, is where I lived for the first 18 years of my life. Native bias aside, it’s really a beautiful area to grow up. Small, rural and surrounded by mountains, I suppose Hendersonville is a nice place to raise a family. But that doesn’t make it an exciting place to grow up. Because it is such a nice, small town, Hendersonville has become a popular retirement community. The most exciting thing that happens there is the yearly North Carolina Apple Festival—a celebration of the county’s biggest cash crop. Maybe when I’m 56 I’ll appreciate such events, but when you’re 17, the Apple Festival is just something to make fun of.

The reason I mention all of this is because I basically spent the past 20 years of my life working to get out of Hendersonville. Anywhere had to be more exciting than that place, or so I thought. Now I’m going home for my last Christmas break. Most likely it’s the last time I’m going to live there for any significant amount of time. More and more I’m finding the prospect of my final break a little bittersweet, and not just because I will soon be losing a laundry service and home-cooked meals (proof that I may miss mom more than she misses me). This break will also be the last time my friends and I will be in town together too. I’m not talking about high school acquaintances here either. These are the kids you grew up with. The ones who were there the first time you got drunk. The ones who held you up the first time you got sick from drinking. The group you hung out with in the parking lot after school arguing over weekend plans. The kids who you can now see, after not having spoken for several months, and immediately feel comfortable.

Things have changed over the years. Arguments used to be about whom we were going to find to buy us beer on Friday night. Now, it’s who gets designated driver duty. Age has changed the context of our arguments, but the rest is the same. You can’t put a price on friendship like that. Despite the best intentions, you tend to lose track of your friends when you get to college. It happens slowly, but one day you realize you haven’t spoken to someone you saw every day for 10 years in far too long. You drift apart. It happens. At least you could rely on spending a couple of weeks together around the holidays. After this year, that’s gone too. It’s nothing to get overly upset about. Life moves on, and so do we. Pretty soon it won’t be school that keeps us apart, but jobs, family and the responsibility of adulthood.

So this New Year’s will be a celebration of the end of one phase of my life and the beginning of a new one. I’ll be somewhere in downtown Asheville with my friends. Bar hopping, making fun of my friends and performing stupid acts that are reserved for the young. As you can tell, I’m looking forward to it. They say you can’t go home again. Well I am going one last time, if only for a moment. And I can’t wait.