Global climate change is a real and dangerous threat. Even the Bush administration no longer denies it. Most of the world also recognizes this reality and has already come up with plans to combat global climate change. Unfortunately, the U.S. emits 25% of the world’s greenhouse gas, and without our involvement, any effort to reduce global emissions will likely be a failure. The Kyoto Protocol, which the U.S. originally agreed to, calls for a feasible 7% drop in greenhouse gas emissions by 2010. But Bush pulled out of negotiations on this promising treaty with a vague promise about finding other ways to reduce emissions. Well, after a long delay, Bush has finally revealed his plan. He shouldn’t have bothered.

At first blush, the Bush plan sounds like the kind of aggressive and forceful response we need. He promises an 18% reduction in “emissions intensity” in the next 10 years. This sounds great until you realize what the term “emissions intensity” means. It is a measure of emissions versus GDP growth. Over the period Bush’s plan covers, the GDP is supposed to go up, hence the Bush plan actually allows for an increase in our current emissions! Not only that, but according to Energy Department estimates, the increases would be virtually identical to what would happen if we did nothing! Under his plan, our emissions would be 50% above Kyoto levels by 2020, according to the Sierra Club. Bush’s plan seems geared more towards not ruffling the feathers of campaign contributors than doing any good. His “forceful plan” is entirely voluntary. Companies can choose whether or not to enter his program! The Bush plan relies on weak incentives and voluntary participation.

Bush’s “Axis of Evil” list was right on. Too often, the State of the Union Address is a laundry list of promises and policy proposals, sprinkled with platitudes and good intentions. It is usually of little substance or use. President Bush’s speech this year did not deviate much from the norm, but it included a memorable and necessary reference to rogue states and the threat they pose. The President appropriately labeled Iran, Iraq, and North Korea as an “axis of evil.” Such a statement was appropriate and necessary because it captures, in a clear and simple way, the true nature of these dangerous regimes. In a sweeping manner, it shows America’s resolve to see the end of regimes that would dare to hold the U.S. and the world hostage. Long overdue, President Bush’s statement marks a clean, and much welcomed, break from the confused and naive policies of the past. It commits the U.S. to action and assigns the “axis of evil” to ultimate defeat for reasons that have been obvious, in some of these regimes, for decades.

No longer will the United States attempt to negotiate with the mad regime that sits in power in Pyongyang; a regime that this week celebrated the 60th birthday of its “dear leader,” Kim Jong Il, with a multimillion-dollar extravaganza while millions of North Koreans starved in a continuing famine. Instead of building power plants for a regime that has violated International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) policies multiple times, and which launched a multi-stage missile over Japan in 1998 when it did not get its way, the Bush administration has shown it will take a more realistic, hard-line approach and will demand nothing short of “regime change.” The “Sunshine Policy” of South Korea’s Kim Dae Jung has been a noble attempt to end the 50-year standoff, but it has proved to be a failure and does not take into account the gross mismanagement of Kim Jong Il’s Stalinist regime. The end of this regime should be the U.S. and South Korea’s only demand now—however that may be brought about.

Iraq, too, has been rightfully targeted as an up-and-coming deposed regime. This perennial security threat will finally be dealt with in a manner that will end the danger it has posed for the last decade. If President Bush’s statements are made...reality, then Saddam Hussein and his cadre of maniacs will have spent their last billion dollars on developing weapons of mass destruction. Only massive and overwhelming force can remove them from power and finish what was begun in 1991. As is the case with North Korea, nothing short of the end of Saddam’s regime will constitute victory. The last of these countries, Iran, is a wild card. Developments in Iran over the last decade have swept “reformers” into positions of power in the executive and legislative branches of government. Certainly, the bulk of the real power over the armed forces and national laws still lay in the hands of Iran’s conservative establishment and Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, but the reform-minded administration of President Muhammad Khatami has recently made overtures toward re-establishing a relationship with the U.S. for the first time since 1979. However, Iran’s possession of medium-range missiles, its pursuit of Russian nuclear warhead knowledge, its possible link to recent arms shipments to Palestinian terrorists, and its less-than-helpful meddling in Afghanistan may prove more damning than recent reforms have proved helpful. To assist the reform-minded elements within Iranian society, America must resist using overt force, but the President’s rough rhetoric was no less appropriate—and the end of rabid pro-terrorist Islamic fundamentalism is no less necessary. The label of an “axis of evil” could not have applied more justly or any better to any other regimes. To be sure, there are other governments in the world that wish to acquire weapons of mass destruction and to use them, but these three constitute the most glaring threat to America and need the most immediate attention. For Iran, this will mean covert military action and close cooperation with reformers, but for North Korea and Iraq, this can only mean overt and coercive action—possibly even war. Regardless of the means, the goal is simple: an end to the governments that threaten U.S. and global security.

Exhortations rather than actual reduction goals and limits for emissions. Allowing polluters to police themselves and set their own emissions limits makes about as much sense as eliminating the police department and expecting a reduction in crime. Coupled with Bush’s systematic weakening of the Clean Air Act and other regulations pertaining to power plants and other big polluters, we are left with a far weaker regulatory framework for reducing emissions than we presently have. The consequences are entirely predictable. The only way to ever reduce pollution is through forceful emissions limits with penalties for non-compliance. Emissions standards work. The average new car today puts out 1/100th of the emission it did in 1970. Five of the EPA’s six indicators of air pollution levels have also gone down during this period. This can’t be chalked up to market forces. Bush tries to scare people from supporting environmental regulations with bogus projections of five million lost jobs and economic devastation. This is patently false. In the last 30 years, the U.S. economy has grown at a tremendous rate while our air and water quality have actually improved. The same trend is repeated worldwide. Bush is using the same discredited scare tactics that big business has always used to oppose any regulation. International condemnation of Bush’s “plan” has been universal. Belgium’s Minister of Energy said recently, “It’s a bit like saying: Wealth is for us today in 2002 and we will leave the problems for our children... It’s a policy I don’t feel is very moral.” He’s right. Bush’s plan is fundamentally immoral. All it does is pass the problem on to the next administration at the expense of future generations. Eventually, we will have to confront this problem and the longer we wait, the more forceful and determined our response will have to be. Global climate change is a lot greater threat to world prosperity and our way of life than terrorism. It’s time for Bush to recognize that and start to show leadership on one of the most important issues of the 21st century.