High drama in hot Georgia
By Grace PATE
Special Contributor

We were five minutes late to the movie—which I blame on a typical map-quest inadequacy. But as soon as we walked in, I realized that the edgy southern drama that burned on the screen was by no means less intense for lack of introduction. I cannot say that Monster’s Ball is the happiest movie that I have ever seen, but in my soppy opinion, a movie isn’t any good unless I’ve shed tears at some point during the film. Well, this one definitely made me cry.

Initially, the plot struck me as predictable. However, a surprisingly hopeful theme surfaces, championing the ability to break out of even the most deeply-rooted cycles. In the movie’s hot Georgia town, there is a collision of two worlds separated by stubborn prejudices against opposing races and economic circumstances. Tragic circumstances in the lives of Hank (Billy Bob Thornton) and Leticia (Halle Berry) make it possible for the unlikely couple to bond over their grief. This connection ultimately initiates the labor of love that allows Hank to move from hatred to tolerance and from tolerance to love, while Leticia ascertains the art of forgiveness.

Besides making me cry, the film also made me sweat... profusely. Talk about a mixture of gut-wrenching circumstances and really passionate love scenes between the movie’s characters! Also sweat-provoking was the all-too-short performance by Heath Ledger, who happens to be returning my loving gaze this very moment from the magazine cutouts that grace my desk and wall. The super-hot cast also includes Sean “P-Diddy” Combs, Peter Boyle, and rap star Mos Def. While executing minor roles, these three actors give surprisingly convincing performances that suggest “lives that ramify beyond the screen”—a phenomenon that critic A. O. Scott of The New York Times correctly praises as instrumental in creating “a story that seems witnessed rather than dramatized.”

In fact, the realism that the story, acting, and cinematography cooperatively render is possibly the most surprising element of Monster’s Ball. There was less than the typical amount of action and dialogue in this movie. Therefore, the realistic emotional performances that the actors gave were essential to holding the audience’s interest. Meanwhile, the camera was cleverly maneuvered to complement the acting by evoking imagery of the South. Kudos to director Marc Forster for achieving this realistic quality that makes the movie’s ideas all the more poignant.

I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys intense drama. If the film lacked anything, it perhaps wanted editing in a few lengthy scenes, but again, the slower pace is instrumental in promoting an “uncut” quality reminiscent of the ever-popular reality dramas on TV. Monster’s Ball is now playing at Eastern Federal Theaters at Birkdale in Huntersville—just don’t get directions off of map-quest. Most likely you’ll agree with me that the only thing missing is a little more screen time for my man Heath.

John Mayer at Tremont
By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

Last Saturday night, about half of Davidson headed south on 77 to Tremont Music Hall for the John Mayer concert. If you’ve never been to Tremont, just know that it tries hard to be sketchy but ends up reminding you of a junior high gym. The thousand tickets and their holders started lining up around 7 p.m., shivering in the cold and straining to catch a glimpse into the two leased tour buses, one with a “Beware of Dog” sign that warned against the dashboard puppy inside.

Doors opened at 8, and fans waited another two hours for their beloved Mayer. In the meantime, though, The Clarks—a band that I had never heard of, but was thrilled to hear—treated the crowd to a half-dozen-song set. Hailing from western Pennsylvania, Scott Blasey, Robert James, Greg Joseph, and David Minarik—see their website, theclarksonline.com, for an explanation of the band’s name and plenty of mp3 downloads—got the crowd worked up with some straight rock and roll. The best song they played was far and away “Born Too Late,” wherein the Clarks proved they were born right on time: “Jimi, show me how you play that thing/Elvis, will I ever be a king?/Jerry, all the joy and love you bring/I was born to sing.” Then lead singer Blasey made the girls go wild with his pelvic-rotating rendition of Prince’s “Kiss” (“You don’t have to be rich”... yeah).

Photo by Caroline Hauser
Mayer at Tremont Music Hall

At the end of the set, drummer Minarik dropped his sticks and grabbed the now-one pack of Corona Extra before jumping off stage to mingle with the groupies, ahem, fans. Within moments, John Mayer took the stage. You would think this guy is famous, the way the crowd roared. Opening “No Such Thing” with a Ja Rule “Always on Time” intro, Mayer launched into a show that included sing-alongs of “My Stupid Mouth”and “Wonderland,” a sweet guitar solo on “City Love,” and what John called the “intro for a southern sitcom,” “Sucker.” By the way, “Sucker” didn’t suck nearly as much as Mayer claimed. Mayer brought to mind an early Elvis, with his dark hair, curled lip, rolling hips, and the way he mouthed his guitar solos as if they were additional lyrics. Oh, yeah, and the girls that squealed for every riff he hit and sip of water he took. It certainly wasn’t the guy-and-his-guitar show I expected—Room for Squares is a great mellow listen, but the band rocked out on it. As Mayer quipped, “This whole set was pretty much a warm-up for X-Box.” The crowd was definitely not ready for video games when the set was over, though, and cheered until Mayer came out for an “83” mix that morphed into “Girls Just Wanna Have Fun” and a final treat in “Comfortable.” John Mayer will be back in North Carolina on Friday, Mar. 1 at Duke University, and The Clarks will be back in Charlotte at the Neighborhood Theater on Mar. 22 and in Raleigh at The Brewery on Mar. 23.

_»... "The Davidsonian mor _ «WEDNESDAY, February 20, 2002

Not a girl, not yet an actress
By Katy ELWELL
Staff Writer

Crossroads was cheesy. Britney Spears will not be nominated for any Academy Awards. Despite this, the movie was actually decent. I was entertained most of the time, and appreciated the movie’s honesty. Crossroads makes no pretensions about being anything other than a venue for Spears to sing, dance, and show off her abs: the movie opens with a scene in which Spears sings in her underwear, assuring the audience that she will not try to act.

The plot is simple, and the movie’s structure prevents Spears from having to act at all. Three childhood friends are reunited the night of their high school graduation and decide to take a road trip to California together. Spears’ character, Lucy, is one-dimensional, and is absent during scenes that require any display of emotion. For example, Lucy’s dramatic meeting with her biological mother is omitted from the screen, and the audience only sees her friends trying to comfort her, which eventually ends in Lucy singing. Lucy also surprises everyone by winning a karaoke contest and securing a record deal.

Director Tamara Davis has created a movie with a star that cannot act, and she’s successful in keeping that fact from being blatantly obvious to her audience. The actual acting is left to professionals, including Zoé Saldana (Center Stage), Taryn Manning (Crazy/Beautiful), and Dan Aykroyd. Although Spears busies herself with radio sing-a-longs, the other actors deal with deeper issues such as rape and loss of trust. Aykroyd plays Spears’ father, who reacts emotionally to Lucy’s decisions, mostly over the phone, freeing Spears up from having to convey her character’s sentiments. The other actors gracefully step in whenever the script calls for skill, and the camera focuses on them whenever Spears takes a break from singing.

The problem with this is that since Spears has the starring role, skipping over key events in her life or keeping her absent in others is a bit awkward. Lucy’s love interest develops into a serious relationship seemingly overnight, leaving the viewers to wonder if they missed something. Also, Lucy’s two long-lost friends spend lots of onscreen time bonding, but Lucy is missing in action during most of this, although her relationship with them is quickly accelerated. However, the story does focus on post high-school friendships and romances and the associated changes, so many scenes allow Spears to just be herself, which she does well.

The soundtrack does include music other than Spears’ own. Although none of it is worth a second listen, at least some attempt is made, even if that attempt is mostly other overplayed pop and includes the likes of ‘N Sync, Shania Twain, and Jars of Clay. Spears’ performance of “I Love Rock 'n' Roll” makes it clear that she is no Joan Jett, but she does add a pop element to the song that Jett didn’t, giving it a 2002 update. Crossroads is a fun movie that worked with the constraints it was given, namely allowing Spears to make her acting debut without requiring her to act, but Spears might have done better to create an abs-of-steel workout video instead.

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
FINEST QUALITY EYEWEAR IN THE AREA BY THE MOST EXPERIENCED TEAM IN THE AREA
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 26, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DELUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY
Continuing our policy of offering Davidson Students, Faculty & Employees a 20% Discount on Eyewear and Special Prices on Eye exams.