12

-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
April 10, 2002

By RICHARD CONNOLLY

Staff Writer

Baseball is a game of numbers, and, while Davidson has been putting up some impressive offensive stats recently, the Wildcats
have been unable to convert runs into victories, dropping five of their last eight games. Despite outscoring their opponents 59-49
over that eight-game stretch, the Davidson nine has failed to find any consistency at the plate.

Facing High Point nearly two weeks ago, the diamond ’Cats scored only a single run and lost to the Panthers
11-1.

The lone run for the Wildcats came in the third inning when junior DJ Dailey singled in freshman Eli Benefield,
who drew a leadoff walk and advanced into scoring position when senior Jack Purcell rapped a one-out single through the
left side.

Looking to pick up some ground in the Southern Conference, Davidson embarked on a six-game conference road trip over Easter
Break, playing three games at both Wofford and Appalachian State.

Senior Tim Frend (2-2) held Wofford to just two runs off seven hits, while striking out nine against three walks
as he went the distance for the second time this season. Freshman Michael Muniz ignited the offense, going 2-for-4 with
2 runs and an RBI, and senior Steven Aldrich drove in two more as Davidson improved its conference record to
3-7 with the 4-2 victory.

A day later, Frend wielded a big stick at the plate, going 4-for-5 with a three-run homer, as the Wildcats
won the morning game 14-3. Senior right-hander Mark Wells (3-3) allowed just one earned run on eight hits en route
to Davidson’s second consecutive complete-game victory.

Senior co-captain James Marino racked up five RBI off three hits, while Dailey and freshman Sam Navarro both recorded three
base knocks as Davidson triumphed by their largest margin all year. The runs stopped there though, as Wofford shut out
the ’Cats 5-0 in the rain-shortened afternoon game.

Against ASU, Davidson rattled off 15 hits and held on to beat the Mountaineers 11-9, improving their record to 13-17
and 5-8 in the SoCon. Purcell led all hitters, going 4-for-6 with two runs and 3 RBI, while five Davidson
batters had multi-hit games to pace the offense.

Sophomore hurler Matt Dellinger (2-2) picked up the win by pitching 5.2 solid innings, and junior Matt Hood recorded his
first save of the season.

Appalachian State got a pair of strong pitching performances and rattled off 27 hits in a doubleheader sweep the following
day to take two of three from the Cats and win the three-game series. Davidson fell 8-3 in the front
end of the twin bill despite an impressive two-way performance from Frend (2-3), who went 4-for-5 with an RBI but
also took the loss.

The Wildcats scored one in the ninth and then loaded the bases with one out, but a double play with
the tying run on deck squelched the potential rally.

Frend’s double in the first inning was the 53rd of his career, breaking the Davidson record. The Wildcats were held
to four runs off five hits in game two and dropped to 5-10 in conference play with the 6-4 loss.

Finally back at the friendly confines of Wildcat Park, Davidson played host to UNC-Asheville last Wednesday. For their part, the
Wildcats banged out 20 hits and put 12 runs on the board, but that proved inadequate as the Bulldogs handed
Davidson its 20th loss of the 2002 campaign.

Offensively for Davidson, Navarro went 5-for-5 with three RBIs, while Frend and fellow senior Trae Fletcher each contributed three hits
in the losing effort.

The diamond ’Cats next take the field this Friday when they travel to Furman to take on the Paladins for
a three-game weekend series.

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“It is not fair to ask of others what you are not willing to do yourself.”

-Eleanor Roosevelt

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Apr. 13 @ Furman (2) 2:00
Apr. 14 @ Furman 1:00
Apr. 17 @ Duke 7:00

MEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 12 VMI 2:00
Apr. 14 @ Furman 1:30

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Apr. 13 @ Georgia Southern 1:00
Apr. 14 @ College of Charleston 10:00

GOLF
Apr. 12-13 @ Wofford Invitational

MEN’S TRACK & FIELD
Apr. 13 @ Charlotte Invitational

LACROSSE
Apr. 14 Vanderbilt 12:30

WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD
Apr. 13 @ Furman 4-Way Meet
