Liz Schoening and Jane Garnett-Ishon battle the elements and a Radford defender during Saturday’s rain-soaked 1-0 win.

Rain doesn’t slow field hockey in win over Radford

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

“Heart and Hustle.”

Head field hockey coach Lisa Thompson spoke these words of inspiration as the ‘Cats took the field against the Radford Highlanders.

The two words summarized the underlying reason for the ‘Cats’ win in their first game of the season.

With 20:32 remaining in the first half, Jane Garnett-Ishon scored her first collegiate goal off an assist from Amanda Strickland.

It proved to be the only goal that the ‘Cats needed to secure their first NorPac conference win.

As both teams worked to move the ball up their respective ends of the field, the pouring rain added an additional challenge to maneuvering ability.

It did not, however, prevent the ‘Cats from having beautiful midfield transition. Led by midfielder Agnes Bateman and defender Kathleen Fenn, the team made crisp passes to one another to maintain possession.

While the entire team played at a consistently high level, it would be impossible to go without mentioning the stellar defensive unit of Christina Auer, Jess Barton, Courtney Hughes, Fenn, and goalie Sarah Nolan.

Nolan made 11 crucial saves to pick up the shutout, and even managed to stop all fifteen Radford corners.

The game remained a close battle up to the final whistle. With one second to go, the Highlanders took a shot that skipped past Nolan, but Hughes came to the rescue and prevented the goal with a demolishing clear.

The ‘Cats took four shots on cage, while the Highlanders recorded 11. Radford goalie Tina Caiazza made 2 saves in the losing effort.

The Highlanders did not make it easy for Davidson, but the heart and hustle of the ‘Cats led them to victory.

The ‘Cats return to the field on Friday, Sept. 6, at 7:30 p.m. in Boone, N.C., where they will face Saint Francis.

Football readies for opener against scholarship program

By Mark Garfield
Managing Editor

The Davidson football team begins its quest for a fifth straight winning season on Saturday against a VMI team that is 4-29 over the past four years.

But the Keydets own a 63-0 advantage in a statistic that probably means a lot more: scholarships.

The Wildcats compete on the Division I-AA non-scholarship level, meaning most players must pay the same tuition as other students.

Nearly all the VMI players who see action in Saturday’s game attend school for free, in exchange for their services on the field.

That’s the challenge facing second-year head coach Mike Toop and the Wildcats entering their first game against a Southern Conference school since 1989 (a 39-36 loss to VMI).

“They’re bigger and their skill players are probably a little quicker,” said Toop. “And they’re playing a tougher schedule. It’ll definitely be a huge challenge for us.”

Davidson has no scholarship players, but the team does return 18 starters off a team that finished 5-4 a year ago.

Just as important, the coaching staff returns intact for the first time in four seasons.

“This will be the first year for any of these kids to have the same head coach and coaching staff return,” said Toop. “Not having to learn a new system for the first time since they’ve been here will put us much farther ahead of the game than in the past.”

Senior co-captain Paul Nichols opens his third year at quarterback after missing the final two games of last season with a torn ACL. He finished with more than 1,100 yards and a 54.0 completion percentage, placing him fifth in Davidson all-time passing yardage.

Nichols hasn’t shown any signs of the injury since practice began in the spring.

“He’s been sharp,” said Toop. “He’s doing more of the little things, looking off receivers, getting rid of the ball sooner. Those are the things that hurt him last year. He’s got a very good feel for the offense at this point.”

Sophomore John Leverett, who moves into a starting role at tailback to replace the graduated Ward Gibson, is not expected to play on Saturday because of a finger injury suffered in practice.

He should return in time for the home opener against Jacksonville on Sept. 14.

The Wildcats held an intra-squad scrimmage in the rain on Saturday at Richardson Stadium.

Despite the muddy conditions, Toop said he’s pleased with how it went.

Saturday’s forecast for Lexington, Va., calls for a mix of clouds and sun—and according to Toop, the chance of a monumental upset.

“We’re not into moral victories,” he said. “We’re not going up there to play the best we can. Our program has evolved to the point where we’re going out to win. That’s basically the only goal.”

Photo by Willis Glasgow

Senior Paul Nichols will open his third season at quarterback on Saturday when the Wildcats travel to VMI.

Nick Hansell 704

Major: Physics Hometown: Columbia, SC

Hansell had two goals and an assist from the striker position to lead the soccer team to the Army/adidas tournament title.

Friday:

Volleyball vs. Coastal Carolina 7 p.m.
Field Hockey at Saint Francis 7:30 p.m.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country at Covered Bridge Open

Saturday:

Football at VMI 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer at North Carolina 7 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. Citadel 4 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Southeastern La., North Carolina A&T 12:30 p.m.

Sunday:

Field Hockey vs. American at Winston-Salem, N.C. 1 p.m.

Monday:

Golf at Mid-Pines Intercollegiate, Pinehurst, N.C.
Women’s Soccer at Wake Forest 8 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Furman 7 p.m.

Tuesday: