Nelson’s offensive disappointment
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Before we get to I Am Sam, a few words on my experiences with mentally disabled characters on the silver screen. I'll say it if you won’t. Don’t even bother letting the PC Canine Unit loose: I won’t be running. Characters with mental disabilities are funny. Whether you like it or not, most of us have had a chuckle or two at the expense of Billy, the boy with Down syndrome down the street.

Thinking about cinema’s relationship with the disabled, I am surprised that I recall more films that make good use of their “challenged” characters than films that simply exploit their conditions. Does Lasse Hallstrom find humor in Arnie from What’s Eating Gilbert Grape? Of course he does. Arnie, quite simply, does some very funny things. Arnie, however, also does what every other child does: he gets in trouble, he demands love, and he gives love, as well.

Not every mentally retarded character on the screen is as multidimensional as Arnie Grape is. Take Warren from There’s Something About Mary. (His ear sensitivity: very funny.) While Mary takes place in a Miami so very different from the warm and loving Iowa of Gilbert Grape, both films are equally true to and fond of their stories and characters.

We love, loathe, and laugh at Arnie in every scene of Gilbert Grape, and we laugh at every character in Mary. Is it cruel to laugh at someone because of a disability? Well, yes, but it’s also cruel to laugh at someone with semen in her hair.

Now comes I Am Sam, starring the great Sean Penn with the intellectual capacity of a seven-year-old. Is Penn convincing in this role? Of course he is convincing; he is Sean Penn. However, when the word “convincing” is used to describe a performance, it suggests imitation, not acting. And as we’d all agree, imitation and acting are two very different skills, the latter more difficult.

Penn is Sam. Sam is mentally disabled. Sam reads Green Eggs and Ham. Sam—somehow—has a daughter. Sam raises his daughter. She is Lucy (Dakota Fanning). Lucy is smart, a lot smarter than Sam. Social workers take Lucy away from Sam. Sam is sad and tries to get Lucy back.

The film’s co-writer/director, Jessie Nelson, tries to make us believe that a man who could not read the preceding paragraph could raise a child. Such a complaint is, to some degree, unfair: I Am Sam is a parable about the human spirit, and its moral is “love is all you need.” In other words, we’re supposed to ignore reality. And, I must admit that, at first, I bought into the film’s premise to the degree that I did not watch Sam and Lucy’s interactions with complete disbelief.

About a third into the movie, however, Nelson and her ridiculous film lost me completely. The straw that breaks I Am Sam’s back is a quiet one. Lucy has a friend over for some playtime. He asks Lucy why her father is acting like a retard. Lucy explains that her father is a retard. This little moment is quite funny, and surprisingly honest, but look at its context. There are two seven-year-olds that are alone in an apartment with a mentally disabled man in his thirties. All three people in the room have the same mental capacity. I ask parents reading this article a question: would you let your seven-year-old go over to a friend’s house to play and be supervised by Sam? A scene like this one is the material of fantasy, not parable.

I Am Sam is certainly unbelievable, but is it mean? In other words, is it going to offend the PC police and their buddies at the Special Olympics? The answer to this question is probably “no.” After all, it’s rather impressive to have a mentally disabled character raise a child from infancy to kindergarten. It does, however, offend me as a moviegoer. Here is a film that expects me to laugh at Sam and his friends, each with his unique disability. (One can only imagine how and where they all met.) It also expects us to sympathize with and love Sam.

Student exhibit photo by Allison Ong
By ALLISON ONG
Special Contributor

Currently showing is Nathanial Rogers’s “Life’s Little Dilemmas,” Feb. 20-29, Smith Gallery, Visual Arts Center. The works are in charcoal and most of the male figures in Rogers’s drawings are self-portraits. Set in unlikely environments and having his figures in strange juxtapositions, Rogers keeps his audience guessing on what is happening in his pictures. In “Reality Check,” one cannot tell where the two figures are, why the girl seems to be pulling her shirt down towards her crotch area, why the male figure behind her has his head thrown back, as if in a trance, and more. Though other works are less ambiguous and easier to understand, the goal of Rogers’s work is still clear: to call the viewer back to look at the image again and again, with a different interpretation each time.and his friends. Did I laugh? Yes, I must admit that I did. But when I laughed, it was not the type of good-hearted chuckle that makes me smile afterwards. The laughs in I Am Sam are cold and mean, more “South Park” than “Simpsons.” I did not, though, sympathize with or love Sam and his friends. Nelson never comes close to evoking the emotions that Hallstrom did with What’s Eating Gilbert Grape or Neil LaBute did with In the Company of Men. Furthermore, Nelson loves her characters conditionally, making fun of them in one scene, and then giving us emotional close-ups in others. Even worse, she expects her audience, though not herself, to love her characters unconditionally. It seems that Nelson confused the mental capacity of her audience with that of her main character.

Derek Trucks: a jewel among thorns
By Layton Hower
Special Contributor

Music fans witnessed a spectacular, one-of-a-kind performance on Friday night in the 900 Room. No fool, not that Shakespeare schwag—this was something really special; a jewel among thorns, a bright light ministering to the many poor souls suffering from musical retardation (compliments of the Court), the sky-walker of the blues himself, Mr. Derek Trucks.

Trucks, now 22 years old, has a musical background that is long and storied despite his few years. His uncle, Butch Trucks, an original drummer of the Allman Brothers, provided access to a major band from his youngest days. By age nine, Trucks was performing guitar professionally and was in such high demand that the state of Florida changed its laws concerning minors in bars to allow young Trucks to perform in them. No really, his dad sold the family roofing business to support his son’s band. Eleven years later, Trucks plays in two bands: The Derek Trucks Band and his uncle’s Allman Brothers Band.

So this is what happened on Friday: Trucks walked on stage and ripped the holy turd out of his Washburn. Solo after bodacious solo tumbled out as he commanded his mighty ax to scream, moan, bite, bark, and beg for mercy. Trucks varied his style from playing the traditional, lilting slide solos reminiscent of Duane Allman himself, to loosening that fat guitar string above the others, pulling it over the back of the neck and plucking it as lovingly as a kind farmer milks the ripe teat of a frightened calf. Trucks made noises you’ve never heard from a guitar. Trust me, you haven’t. You know why you haven’t? Because you’ve never heard someone play an entire solo by flicking guitar strings with a slide held in the picking hand. And do you know why you’ve never heard that? Because you were either too lame or too drunk to make it to the concert.

That’s not to say that he’s selfish or that the reason he has a band is to provide a soloing platform. In fact, he readily relinquishes the limelight to allow the band to function as its own organism. Not only does each member get a piece of the musical pie, but the pie’s sweeter because of each one’s individual presence. Trucks actually kneeled down at one point to let the crowd see the dueling percussionists fabulously flail their ferocious fists of fury.

So aside from this earth-shattering guitar maestro, let’s see who’s got da man’s back. Do you like Widespread Panic? I don’t, but their conga player, Count Mabutu, rocks and he was whacking the deer hide with his manos rapidos. To his left, Yonrico Scott plowed through his percussion entourage, hitting it all, from a traditional five-piece drum set to bongos, cowbells, even the dainty, yet delicious, triangle. Todd Smallie manned the 6-string bass with a fervor, laying a foundation that the dude in the parable would have been wise to build upon. And Kofi Burbridge, holy smokes! Kofi Burbridge! His fingers absolutely set the keyboard, organ, and clavinet on fire and his lips ignited the worthy flute. For this man, the organ is an extension of his body, a third hand of sorts, and the flute a third...err.. Oh, there was also Javier Colon, but he sang in a high voice and tucked his shirt into his khakis, so we won’t say much about him.

In what was hands down the most righteous musical feat Davidson will entertain all year, The Derek Trucks Band and their monsoon of ridonkulous skillz gullywashed the 900 Room with a frothy bath of blues power. As in the words of our resident blues aficionado, A. Satakopan Dileepan, “Dude...wow.”

www.derektrucks.com

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
“THE FINEST QUALITY EYEWEAR IN THE INDUSTRY”

LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.

EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUCA

AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

Continuing our policy of offering Davidson Students, Faculty & Employees a 20% Discount on Eyewear and Special Prices on Eye exams.