The Sideline Boys of Summer
By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

As the baseball team prepares for its gala centennial celebration, it’s worth reflecting on what the College was like before
the boys of summer. Baseball originated on campus when the school reopened after the Civil War. Apparently, somebody picked it
up in a northern jail. I’ll refer you to Ken Burns for more information.

According to a history of Davidson College, students’ petitions for an intercollegiate baseball team were rejected repeatedly by a faculty
intent on preserving the academic focus of the institution. Like me, these students were fortunate enough to have a forum
to voice their concerns, criticisms, and cynical commentary. Actually, after the first season, they were pretty optimistic. From The Davidson
College Magazine, May 1902:

“We take great pride in presenting to our readers a resume of the baseball season which has just come to
an end. We venture to say, without fear of successful contradiction, that the record of the Davidson College baseball team
has never been surpassed, if equaled, by any team in the South. What other institution of learning in this section
can look back on the record of its first team in any past season, and boast that its team has
come forth triumphant over all.

“Starting in its first season of intercollegiate baseball, we did not even dream that it would be able to add
such luster to our already proud record in the field of sports.

“The old spirit which is ever rampant, and for which her sons are ever noted, still inspired the members of
our baseball team and although there was no proud record of the past to lean upon, they proved themselves worthy
wearers of the red and black.

“Who would have imagined that a team, in its infancy, could contend successfully with the tried veterans of many campaigns.
Not only did Trinity succumb to the skillful work of our artists but even our friendly rivals from Palmetto state
had to lower their colors. It was with much sorrow and still a great deal of pleasure, that we defeated
the University of South Carolina, as it took them so unawares.

“We attribute the success of our team, not to the skillful work of one or two men, but to the
united effort of one and all. Teamwork wins out in the end.

“All the members come in for their fair share of praise and it would be hard to pick a star,
when all were stars. Of course, the battery in baseball usually carries off the lion’s share of the honors, but
the support of the team is essential to success.”

These guys had a lot of time to spend on their sports articles. And it doesn’t seem that today’s journalistic
standards were in place at the turn of the last century. But these guys had some spirit. They rented trains
to transport the entire school to early baseball games. They were the “red and black machine.” Not that we should
revert to that. But it would be nice to see some real support for the baseball team this weekend. The
athletic department has put together a fantastic program for returning ballplayers, including the requisite alumni game. Meanwhile, the current Nine
will make a home stand with a tournament bid on the line. Go see it.

Davidson College Recycling Program

Congratulations Campus Community! This academic year your recycling efforts to date have totaled 32.17 TONS of materials including: corrugated cardboard,
paper, glass, plastic, aluminum.

College Physical Plant
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Dropping two of three to Western Carolina this past weekend, the Davidson ball club fell a game back in the
race for that final Southern Conference playoff slot. The Diamond ’Cats dipped to 8-13 in conference play and 16-25 overall,
while Furman knocked off Wofford twice in three games and improved to 9-12 in SoCon action to pull ahead by
a single game.

Facing Duke on the road last Wednesday, the Davidson nine combined for just two runs off eight hits en route
to losing a 12-2 decision. Eight Blue Devil batters combined for 15 hits, including seven extra-base hits and batted around
twice as they evened their record at 19-19 on the year. Freshman Justin Hartanov singled up the middle to lead
off the eighth and advanced to third on senior Steven Aldrich’s double before scoring on a fielder’s choice, and junior
DJ Dailey singled in Aldrich two batters later.Playing host to WCU for a three-game weekend series, the 'Cats pieced together
a three-run ninth inning to take game one of Saturday's doubleheader. With the score 4-2 in the last of the
ninth, junior Chris Emond led off the inning with a single to right on a 3-2 pitch. Hartanov followed with
a walk, but a bunt attempt failed, leaving runners at first and second with one out. Aldrich then drew a
walk to load the bases and, after a Catamount pitching change, senior Jack Purcell ripped a single to left that
scored Emond and cut the deficit to one. Another WCU pitcher entered, only to have Dailey line a single to
center, scoring pinch runner Andrew Musashe, but a frozen rope from the Catamount center fielder nailed Aldrich at home to
prevent the winning run from scoring.

Not all was lost, however, as senior Tim Frend singled through the right side to plate Purcell from second and
take a 5-4 SoCon win. Senior Mark Wells (4-5) went the distance for Davidson, surrendering just two earned runs on
eight hits with four strikeouts and four walks. The Catamount pitching staff quieted Davidson’s bats in the second game, scattering
just seven hits en route to the 4-0 win. For their part, seven different Wildcats singled, including Dailey, who extended
his hitting streak to 11 games. Junior reliever Erskine Wells yielded just two hits in four shutout innings, striking out
four and retiring the final 10 batters he faced after replacing Derrik Wolpert in the sixth.

In the rubber match, WCU stranded 14 runners, including 10 in the first five innings, before finally catching a break
in the top of the tenth to down the Wildcats. The Catamounts took a 1-0 lead in the fourth, but
Davidson tied the game in the seventh when senior co-captain James Marino launched his fourth home run of the year
high over the right field fence. Unfortunately, only one other Wildcat baserunner advanced as far as second in the entire
game as Davidson recorded just six hits on the afternoon. WCU capitalized off a Davidson error in the top of
the tenth, placing men at the corners with two outs before the Catamount shortstop homered to left, giving his team
a 4-1 lead. The Wildcats went down in order in the bottom half as they dropped to 8-13 in league
play. Dailey extended his hitting streak to 12 games and freshman Andy Carter held strong on the mound, allowing just
one run off seven hits while striking out three against two walks in the losing effort.

Davidson returns to action tomorrow at UNC-Asheville before playing host to VMI this weekend as the team celebrates its 100th
anniversary.

Golf makes good showing at SoCon tournament
By Mark Pustay
Staff Writer

The Wildcat golf team wrapped up a successful spring campaign with a tenth place finish at last week’s Southern Conference
Championships in Greenville, SC last weekend. The College of Charleston took home its first conference title and earned an automatic
bid to the NCAA Championships with a three-round total of 850 on the 6,800-yard Furman University Course. Host Furman, who
led the field going into the final round, finished second by just five strokes. Georgia Southern finished in third place,
eight shots behind the Cougars. Charleston’s Daniel Brunson walked away with the individual medalist honors, shooting a final-round 70 and
finishing with an 11-under-par 205.

The Wildcats were led by freshman Joe Zimmerman, whose six-over-par finish (72-76-74) was good enough for twenty-seventh place overall. Junior
Ben Friedell had another strong finish, firing a 227 (77-74-76) which placed him 31st among all finishers. Freshmen Dan Koernke
and Peyton Gallagher finished 42nd and 43rd, respectively, to further aid the Wildcat effort. Senior Captain Dan Carlson contributed a
solid 238 in his final conference championship.

Furman’s Matt Davidson, younger brother of former Davidson Wildcat Sean Davidson, was given Southern Conference Player of the Year honors
while his coach, Todd Satterfield, was named Coach of the Year. Georgia Southern’s Aron Price was named conference Freshman of
the Year.

The Conference Championships concluded Davidson’s season, but the team now looks forward to this fall. The team’s lone off-season loss,
senior captain Dan Carlson, will be significant. The Wildcats who will try to fill Carlson’s void are quite young, as
only one returning Wildcat, Friedell, will have achieved senior standing.

Photo by Sports: Tarnation
Junior Ben Friedell placed 31st in last weekend’s tournament.
