By Matt Wuirep, Photography Editor

During the past few years, Davidson has successfully brought popular national bands for the big fall concert, perhaps culminating in last year’s performance by Counting Crows. This year will be no exception when John Mayer comes to Belk Arena with Guster and Charlie Hunter next Monday. After spending several years in Atlanta writing songs and building a fan base, Mayer has quickly gained national recognition coinciding with the release of "Room for Squares," his first album under the Columbia label. In particular, his recent singles “No Such Thing” and “Your Body Is A Wonderland” have quickly moved to the tops of the charts. Mayer’s music draws from a variety of influences, and he spent many of his teenage years mastering blues guitar, for which he quickly gained local recognition. Eventually, after realizing that his desire was not to master someone else’s songs but to create his own unique sound, Mayer enrolled in Berklee School of Music in Boston. He dropped out after a few months, though, to begin performing full-time, and moved to Atlanta. Mayer wrote most of the songs on "Room for Squares" while he was performing solo in Atlanta, and gained a reputation for what the Atlanta Journal-Constitution called a “sophisticated, accessible folk rock sound dominated by striking acoustic guitar playing.” As he has begun to tour nationally, Mayer...

By Charles Cummins, Staff Writer

Reviewing the list of movies currently playing at Movie at the Lake, Birkdale, Amstar, or Concord Mills, I noticed a pronounced lack of high-quality movies. Most screens continue to be filled with the blockbusters of the summer, which by now most of us have seen. So in a search for the best movie alternative, I returned to a classic that has been given a breath of fresh air with a Tenth Anniversary 2 Disc Special Edition DVD released last week... "Reservoir Dogs."

Let me return to the year 1992. Back then, we were somewhere between the ages of 8 and 12, enjoying our Saturday morning cartoons and playing the original Nintendo or, if you were one of the lucky few, the Super Nintendo. At the same time, over in Los Angeles, a young filmmaker named Quentin Tarantino and his partner in crime producer Lawrence Bender were preparing to release the film that would begin a revolution in Hollywood and popular culture. It would make stars of Tim Roth and Steve Buscemi and introduce Harvey Keitel to a younger audience, then best known as Jodie Foster’s pimp in "Taxi Driver."

Today, the legacy that "Reservoir Dogs" has established over the last ten years is most evident in the countless movies that have used and reused Tarantino’s cinematic techniques in subsequent films. How many times have you seen instances in which a film’s plot is broken up with flashbacks so that the film might jump from the aftermath of an event to the next scene in which the characters are planning the event to a third sequence in which we are back in real time? Or think about the technique when an event is shown from several different characters’ viewpoints. Recent movies have used the method well. Besides Tarantino’s subsequent films including "Pulp Fiction" and "Jackie Brown" (both recently released on Special Edition DVDs), Doug Liman’s 1999 film "Go" (largely missed by audiences and commonly referred to as a high school/college version of "Pulp Fiction") also uses similar editing techniques. Recently, filmmakers have begun to use the effects of the broken plot as the result of the subject matter, from the classic amnesia-based "Memento" to this summer’s sleeper (pun intended) "Insomnia" with Robin Williams and Al Pacino.

Yet, the legacy "Reservoir Dogs" has attained is most evident by the fact that I can even today put the movie on and be entertained with a mix of humor (the “Like a Virgin” speech)...mystery (who is the rat?), suspense (the robbery), and cringe factor (the infamous EAR scene). The current re-release of Reservoir Dogs for the Tenth Anniversary Edition DVD brings together a long list of special features to enjoy. Besides the usual Deleted Scenes, Theatrical Trailer, and Commentary, you get several new interviews with the stars, the director, and the producer, which reveal all the struggles to get this movie made on a shoestring budget. One of the more surprising finds is an interview with Kirk Baltz, made famous as LAPD Officer Marvin Nash, victim of the EAR incident. But the key interview is with the man himself, Quentin Tarantino, who recounts his start as a clerk at a video store to an “A-list” director with the release of Reservoir Dogs. His interview, humorously broken up with written narration set to angelic music and a background of a clouded sky, shows how Tarantino has become the idol of all struggling filmmakers. This DVD helps to document the work that went into developing this modern classic. It has given this reviewer greater respect for the film that was created in the process.

So as we all await a fall filled with the return of Hannibal Lecter, James Bond, the Lord of the Rings, or even Harry Potter, pick up the Tenth Anniversary Special Edition DVD of Reservoir Dogs.

Preview: John Mayer and Guster in Concert
John Mayer has expanded his band and started playing electric guitar in addition to acoustic, but has retained much of the folk rock sound. Mayer’s voice has been compared to artists such as David Gray and Dave Matthews, but concertgoers next Monday can expect that his voice will not be the main attraction. Indeed, Mayer has said that he considers himself primarily to be a guitarist and songwriter. If past concerts are any indication, he will take his fair share of lengthy, intricate, and skillful electric guitar solos. The Davidson concert will bring Mayer close to the end of a tour that has been going almost nonstop for the past 16 months to promote Room for Squares. Guster has joined John Mayer’s group on tour since the end of July as co-headliners, and the tour has featured a variety of opening groups. Guster and Charlie Hunter will both add a more acoustic element to the concert and certainly will not disappoint avid Mayer fans who are not familiar with either group. According to one Baylor University student who attended the Waco, TX performance, “the coolest part of the entire concert is that the Guster drummer plays all the drums with his bare hands, even the cymbals.” So, if anyone still needs a reason to put off homework on a Monday night, there it is. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. on Monday, Sept. 9 in Belk Arena. Tickets are on sale through the Union Box Office and Ticketmaster.

Senior Experience Calendar September 2002:
September 4th: Credential Review (Alvarez 414, 11AM-12N on Tuesdays; 2-3PM on Fridays: cover letters, applications, personal statements)
September 5th: Careers in the Investigative Industry (Alvarez 302, 7PM)
September 6th: Writing a Winning Resume (Alvarez 313, 4-5PM)
September 9th: Getting into Law School (Alvarez 302, 5-6PM)
September 10th: Find Your Dream Job (Alvarez 302, 1-2PM)
September 12th: PIGAPALOOZA, 5-7PM, Martin Court (Senior Class Barbeque sponsored by Dining Services)
September 19th: Writing a Winning Resume (Alvarez 302, 7:30-8:30PM)
September 20th: Ace the Interview (Alvarez 302, 1:30-2:30PM)
Ongoing: Internships: The Competitive Edge (Alvarez 313, 2:30-3:30PM)
Dynamite Cover Letters (Alvarez 313, 1-2PM)
Networking for Success (Alvarez 302, 10:30-11:30AM)
Find Your Dream Job (Alvarez 302, 10:30-11:30AM)
Ace the Interview (Alvarez 302, 4-5PM)
Business Etiquette (900 RM, 7PM)
Succeeding at a Career Fair (Alvarez 302, 1-2PM)

Upcoming events:
- Senior Success Series continues into the fall semester
- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue throughout the academic year
December 12th: Senior Break/Reading Day (Davidson latte mug, sponsored by RLO)