RESTAURANTS IN DAVIDSON

The Soda Shop, Main Street, is a Davidson institution and serves fantastic old-fashioned milkshakes. Their hamburgers, sandwiches, and fries make a satisfying but increasingly expensive meal.

Ben and Jerry’s, Main Street, doesn’t really need any other explanation (unless you’ve never heard of the fabulous Vermont ice cream). Keep your eyes open for promotions like Free Cone Day.

Fuel Pizza Café, South Main Street, has a noisy, stripped-down interior and decent pizza for good prices. Their calzones are probably the best thing on the menu.

Knead It!, South Main Street, is a wonderful bakery/café with excellent breads, soups, sandwiches, and baked goods. Their cookies are fantastic! A great place for breakfast if you’re up for a little walk.

Davinos Restaurant and Bar, 231 Griffith Street (next to CVS), is another Italian place with the usual pizza, spaghetti, and calzones.

RESTAURANTS OUTSIDE DAVIDSON

Zapata’s Cantina, I-77: Exit 28. This popular Mexican restaurant serves tasty fajitas, enchiladas, and tacos. The low prices get even better when you get the Davidson student discount (bring your Davidson ID and be sure to ask about student prices).

Fuzion, Shops on the Green, I-77: Exit 28. One of Bobby Vagt’s personal favorites, it serves a diverse and fun menu. It’s not cheap, but it’s worth it.

Lotus, I-77: Exit 28. A popular Chinese restaurant with good vegetarian options and friendly management.

South End Brewery, I-77: Exit 28. This is a bit more upscale than some of the other listings, but still reasonable considering the high-quality food you get.

Kudzu, 259 S. Broad Street, Mooresville. This excellent but expensive restaurant is a good place to take a date you really want to impress. Another Bobby Vagt favorite.

Chick Fil-A, I-77: Exit 25 and Exit 36. If you’re from a region of the country that only has KFC, you need to try this vastly superior chicken chain. Their waffle-shaped fries are also a step above the usual fast-food fare.

Waffle House, I-77: Exit 28 and Exit 36. A perennial favorite for an inexpensive late-night study break. Some Davidson students are on a first-name basis with the night staff. Open 24 hours.

McAlister’s Deli, I-77: Exit 25. This is a great place for a lighter meal if you just want a sandwich or a bowl of soup. Their sweet tea is famously good.

Carrabba’s, I-77: Exit 25. High-quality Italian that goes beyond red-sauce spaghetti and limp pizza.

Outback Steakhouse, I-77: Exit 25. If you’re hungry for red meat, this chain serves reliable steaks with the usual side dishes like deep-fried onions.

Mickey and Mooch, I-77: Exit 25. A nice, and somewhat expensive, restaurant that serves good steaks and pasta (and an awesome Caesar salad). Terrible location, though; right in the middle of a shopping center.

Cracker Barrel, I-77: Exit 36. Not exactly a health-food store, but a good place to indulge a craving for stereotypical country cooking.

SHOPPING

Wal-Mart, I-77: Exit 36. A huge, confusing labyrinth, but if you’ve got a lot to buy you’ll probably find everything here.

Target, I-77: Exit 25. Many students prefer this discount superstore and think Target is less confusing and has better quality than Wal-Mart.

Staples, I-77: Exit 36. Better than Wal-Mart or Target for shelves or office electronics.

Birkdale Village, I-77: Exit 25. This collection of shops is the place to find the Gap, Banana Republic, Pier One, and other such stores. They also have a movie theatre and some restaurants.

Main Street Books, Main Street. A friendly, pro-browsing place where you can usually find the bestsellers along with a couple of choices you might not have heard of.

Barnes and Noble, I-77: Exit 25. If Main Street Books doesn’t have it, this store probably will. Opening soon!

Harris Teeter, I-77: Exit 28. AKA Taj M’ Teeter, this massive grocery store is a fun place to head if you have any midnight cravings. Open 24 hours.

Concord Mills, I-85: Exit 49, Concord Mills Blvd. This is probably one of the largest malls you’ll ever see; it has a movie theatre, food court, and shops galore.

MOVIE THEATRES

AmStar, I-77: Exit 36. You can buy discount tickets for this place at the Union Desk. Unfortunately, it’s become a popular hangout for scores of giggly preteens.

Movies at the Lake, I-77: Exit 28. Good student rates, comfortable theatres, and all the most popular new releases. The location at Exit 28, right in the middle of most of our restaurant recommendations, is a bonus for the “dinner-and-a-movie” crowd.

Birkdale Village, I-77: Exit 25. Although it plays the major studio releases, this is also a good bet if you’re looking for fare that’s more exotic than Spider-Man. For true art-house movies, however, you’ll probably have to go into Charlotte.

AMC 24 at Concord Mills, I-85: Exit 49, Concord Mills Blvd. This gigantic multiplex is a bit further afield than the others, but older releases may still be playing here when they’ve moved out of the smaller theatres.

RECORD STORE

There’s a shortage of places to buy music around Davidson, but Sam Goody and Wal-Mart at I-77: Exit 36 are okay. A&L editor Chris Schmader recommends Charlotte’s Manifest Records.

CLUBS

The best-known local club is Club Vertigo, I-77: Exit 28. (You may have seen their signs around campus the first weekend.) It does have a dress code, so do at least minimal primping before heading out. For more options, head into Charlotte.

CULTURAL ATTRACTION

The North Carolina Auto Racing Hall of Fame, I-77: Exit 36. That’s right, you’re deep in the heart of NASCAR country now! This place is a good way to gain more appreciation for the local secular religion, stock car racing (provided, of course, you want to do that). North Carolina is the greatest stock car racing state in the union, after all.