Event marks the first steps in a goal to raise over $60,000

By Emily Drew
News Editor

Around 300 people attended the Patterson Court Council’s Construction Gala on Oct. 19 in the Union Atrium. The event raised a little over $2,000 to help raise the $5,000 roof of the Wildcat Habitat House. All PC houses aided in the event, led by PC Service Chair, Shaw Hipsher ’03.

The Generals opened the night, before Jim Richards ’80 took the stage. Richards, who serves on the board at Our Towns Habitat for Humanity, introduced Etheleen Jetton, the owner of the first Wildcat Habitat house, built in 1997. Richards later introduced Davidson alumni Paul Leonard, President of the board of Habitat for Humanity International. Davidson’s flute ensemble played after these speakers while desserts and drinks were served. The Union Board sponsored the hypnotist act that followed dessert.

The Gala helped push the Davidson College Habitat for Humanity chapter further toward their final goal of raising $60,500, the amount necessary to construct the second Wildcat Habitat House. The first house was built in 1997.

“We’re excited about this activity because it brought the Davidson College community together under one roof—our student union—to raise another roof,” said Hipsher.

All food was donated by the PC houses and the drinks were donated by Harris Teeter. Cups, napkins, plates, and forks were donated by Commons. Drink coolers were loaned to Gala coordinators from Baker’s sports medicine employees. Decorations came from the physical plant, ITS, Union Board, Our Towns Habitat for Humanity, and the Town of Davidson. The PC houses served on the decorations, publicity, set-up, and clean-up committees. Central Services, Linda Gurley, and the college Post Office donated time and materials so that we were able to get invitations out to faculty, staff, and alumni.

If you missed the Gala, but still want to help “raise the roof,” you can send donations to the Patterson Court Service Chair, Shaw Hipsher, at P.O. Box 6132, Davidson, NC 28035-6132.

Above, Lee Wheless ’05 mans a table to sell t-shirts and promote sign-ups for volunteers. Left, the Generals serenade Gala participants.

For questions about other ways to help, please contact Casey Sams, one of the Davidson College Chapter of Habitat for Humanity Chairs at casams@davidson.edu.

SYMPHONY

Christof Perick, Music Director

Mostly Mozart

These informal, intimate, and economical concerts feature some of the world’s most famous and best-loved works of classical music. The series brings the CSO out of its home in the Blumenthal Performing Arts Center to perform in your neighborhood.

Christof Perick, conducting
Susanna Self Huppert, flute

MOZART
Overture to Abduction from the Seraglio

MOZART
Flute Concerto No. 1 in G Major

HAYDN
Symphony No. 103, “Drum Roll”

Thu Nov 14 ~ 8 pm
Duke Family Performance Hall
Davidson College Campus
Davidson

SPECIAL SAVINGS FOR FACULTY AND STAFF!

Advance Tickets $8 (reg $10)
Students $5
Tickets available in advance at the Knobloch Campus Center Box Office or by calling 704-894-2340

Christof Perick

Susanna Self Huppert

A great classical music experience for children 10 & over.
Casual Dress
Free Parking