0 0 02 Se ae ee "he. Maris Era: Oibin ape pa ie back on fer Senior reflects on his greatest achievements and regrets By Timothy Cook Managing Editor In an attempt to get to the heart of the student body here at Davidson, I am as of this issue switching the format of my column from pointless fart jokes to in-depth biographies on some of the student leaders who have been valuable movers and shakers and are first-hand witnesses to the changes here at school. My first biography is a traditional one — SGA President Joey Harris ’02. I first met Joey my freshman year while the then-SGA Vice President was my Hall Counselor on 4th Watts. Along with SGA Chancellor Elder Gwinn, our hall flourished with leadership and friendship and with a window into the heart of the school as Joey kept us informed on all kinds of things to do around school. I soon formed a pretty convenient relationship with Joey as I joined the Davidsonian and served as News Editor. I was always happy to be the first to know what stories we had to run in our paper. And it wasn't just with me; Joey had a great relationship with all of our Editorial Board and through him the newspaper and SGA became interdependent. But we will get to that later. With the back-story in place, we may now proceed with the article. The past couple of years have been very important ones in the 160 plus year history of Davidson College. This year’s seniors have seen their campus go through extreme changes only to reappear from its cocoon of dirt and construction with an extreme sense of centralized community. And though all of the class of 2002 has played a role and has toiled without good walkways and campus roads for their time, Joey Harris has played the role of elected leader of that class and this school for all of those years. Though Harris’s rise to SGA President was not his original intent, he wonders what he will do without it. College Communications Harris conducts a meeting as former president, Dane Erickson ‘02, looks on. Harris came to Davidson with a very impressive history under his belt. He had served as Student Body or Student Council President at both his middle and high schools since he was in the eighth grade. So, in his mind, it was time for a break. “Before I came to Davidson I decided that I was drained and exhausted of SGA and Student Council,” said Harris. “I wanted to focus on Community Service and Debate.” But Davidson didn’t have a debate team, nor did it have a mock trial team until last year. And since he had no aspirations to try out for the golf team, which he played on in high school, Harris decided that SGA was at least something to do. And something he did. The Harris administration has seen a great turnaround in the way SGA is perceived. After winning the position of freshman class President and then sophomore class president, Harris decided to run for an officer’s position to gain the experience he knew would be needed to try for SGA President the year after. He won the Vice President position under President Dane Erickson and the next year defeated then-Junior Class President Bobby Pittenger ’02 for SGA President in a great race. He was then in the position to really work on reforming the association. “Before my freshman yearSGA was not living up to its potential. "We weren’t focusing on the little things," said Harris. It is for this reason that Harris and his Senate worked on getting an Online SGA Forum for sparking discussion and legislation started, which he says has been a great success. The predecessor to the Forum, online voting, was also an instrumental tool in gaining the support of SGA from a much wider percentage of the student body. But Harris does not hog all of the glory on accomplishments of SGA. He is quick to cite his stellar cabinet and all of the senators for their work in making SGA a friendlier, better-managed organization.

For example, Harris would probably have gotten himself into some trouble by now if it hadn’t been for his trusty chancellor, Elder Gwinn ’02. Finances have also been easier with help from Treasurer Carla Bullock ’02, who did much in making the SGA budget anything but a lost secret — and helping the organization. But another big reason that SGA has become a much more approachable and better-observed organization is due to the redesigning of the campus. The new Knobloch Campus Center and Alvarez Union created a gathering place that is close to everything on campus. They also offer offices that are not hidden away in dark corridors like the Old Union, but instead offices like the SGA office that overlooks two stories next to an open atrium.

“At the beginning of construction people thought that the new Union was in a bad place,” remarked Harris. And to add to that, there was constant digging and paving for several years until now when the campus “finally looks like a campus again.” Blessed with good fortune and a multitude of successes, Harris is hard-pressed to find failures in his administration that weren’t thought of as long shots to start with. Harris even cites one of his biggest failures in SGA as one of his greatest accomplishments. Though it’s hard to imagine, when the class of 2002 were freshmen there were no hall lounges except for the larger ones on the ground floors in each building. The next year, Harris and other members of the Senate tried desperately to persuade the administration that the students should be able to have cable in their dorm rooms since the lounges were so inconvenient for many. Though the resolution failed when it reached President Vagt, the school did, as a compromise, create a lounge with cable on each floor.

Thanks, Joey, for all of your service and dedication to the school and to SGA. You have been a great President and spokesman, but more importantly, you have been a great friend to all of Davidson. There is no doubt that your legacy will linger on as the college begins to reap all of the rewards of its changing personality. Be on the lookout for more biographies on student leaders here at Davidson. I hope that by the end we all will have a good idea of what Davidson is all about and where we are going.

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY