THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, February 20, 2002

Men’s basketball wins North championship at Charleston

By Matt GARFIELD & BURGIN HARDIN
Managing Editor, Staff Writer

One day after Saturday’s shocking Senior Night loss to Appalachian State, the Davidson men’s basketball team held a closed-door meeting
to figure out how to get its season back on track. Whatever was said paid big dividends on Tuesday night
in Charleston, the most important being a North Division regular season championship.

Wayne Bernard and Chris Pearson each scored 15 points to lead Davidson to a 73-70 victory over College of Charleston,
the first place team in the South Division, in John Kresse Arena. With the victory, the Wildcats (18-8, 11-4) clinched
at least a share of their first regular season title since 1998, as well as the top seed and a
first-round bye in next week’s Southern Conference tournament. Davidson will complete the regular season on Saturday at VMI, then play
at noon on March 1 against the winner of the No. 4 South vs. No. 5 North game. The Wildcats
need three tournament victories to earn an automatic NCAA tournament bid.

“If you saw our locker room Saturday night and tonight, it’s two opposite ends of the spectrum,” said head coach
Bob McKillop. “We didn’t put this team away, but we played with tremendous toughness. We were aggressive.”

The Wildcats trailed 40-32 at halftime, but opened the second half with a 17-3 run to take a 49-43 lead
with 11:16 left. Charleston (19-7, 9-6) rallied to take a 62-61 lead on Bolton’s three-pointer at the 4:25 mark, but
Bernard quickly answered with a three-point play on the ensuing possession. With the game tied at 66, Bernard picked up
a loose ball on Peter Anderer’s missed three-pointer, drove the baseline for a dunk and earned the lead for good
with 1:47 left.

“I haven’t been playing as well as I could have,” said Bernard in a post-game radio interview. “I thought tonight
was a great opportunity to show what I can do.”

For McKillop, Tuesday’s victory was the culmination of a season-long battle against suspensions and injuries. “Winning this North Division championship
is a tremendous statement about these guys fighting through some adversity, the adversity being Wayne, Nick and Michel not being
with us the first 10 games (and) playing almost an entire schedule without Emeka Erege,” he said. “Winning the championship
is big, but now we’ve got another championship we want to win. That’s what we’re shooting for. Beating a tough
team on their home court, doing it in Charleston, [that] is a pretty good feeling to leave with.”

Pearson said the team refused to let the ASU loss bring it down. “That [Appalachian State] game was heartbreaking,” said
Chris Pearson. “We decided to come together and make sure we attack. What was missing [on Saturday] was us attacking
and [instead] being tentative.”

Added senior Michael Bree: “Saturday night’s game was a killer, a bad way to end my Belk Arena career. To
play with the intensity we played with tonight was great, and hopefully we can reproduce that come tournament time.”

Appalachian State

It wasn’t supposed to happen like this. Not on a night to honor six seniors in their final home games.
Not with a chance to clinch the North Division championship. Not with a season-high crowd of 5,036 filling Belk Arena
nearly to the rafters. And certainly not against a fifth place team with a losing record.

Saturday’s 62-60 men’s basketball loss to Appalachian State wasn’t supposed to happen, and that’s what makes it so crushing. Four
minutes stood between Davidson and a division championship after Martin Ides’ lay-up increased the Wildcats’ lead to 60-53. Those would
be the team’s final points of the game. The victory that seemed assured for 34 minutes was suddenly erased by
a flurry of late Appalachian State (10-15, 5-9) baskets, including Shawn Hall’s game-winning pull-up jumper with 3.2 seconds left.

Michael Bree, Fern Tonella, Martin Ides, Emeka Erege, manager Will Roberson and mascot Cort Leroy were deprived of victory in
the final home appearances of their careers, against a team they had beaten just two weeks before.

Track takes much-needed break

By Liz Gross
Staff Writer

The men’s track and field team took a well-deserved rest from competition this past weekend, preparing instead for the upcoming
conference meet. Davidson had planned to run at the Gamecock Invitational at the University of South Carolina, but decided not
to attend the meet.

“The Gamecock Invitational was a meet we had tentatively put on the schedule in case we wanted further competition for
our sprinters,” said men’s head coach Gary Andrews. “But we decided thatwasn’t really necessary.” The Wildcats will focus on the
approaching Southern Conference Championships, scheduled for this Friday and Saturday in Johnston City, TN. Andrews expects a strong showing from
the team. “I’m really excited about going to Conference,” he said. “Our guys are ready to perform at a high
level, and the training has been going really well. I expect to see some really great things this weekend.”

Davidson held a three-point lead in the closing seconds of regulation against Western, but failed to follow coaches’ instructions to
commit a foul that would have prevented Kevin Martin’s three-pointer from sending the game to overtime. On Saturday, the Wildcats
had the ball with the shot clock turned off and the score tied at 60. Instructing his team from the
sideline to wait for one final shot, coach Bob McKillop called an isolation play for guard Wayne Bernard, the same
play used late in the Western Carolina game. Bernard penetrated into the lane with 15 seconds left and dished to
Chris Pearson on the wing. Pearson’s jump shot with 13 seconds left was off the mark; Hall grabbed the rebound,
raced down court, and sank a pull-up jumper from just inside the free throw line to provide the winning points.

“We yelled ‘last shot, last shot,’” said McKillop after the game. “We had a good match-up with (Matt) Jones on
Bernard. Wayne went too early.” Michael Bree’s desperation three-pointer bounced off the front of the rim as the buzzer sounded,
and before the team and the crowd could make sense of what had happened, ASU forward Nate Carson was stomping
on the logo at center court, violently concluding what had already been a jolting night for Davidson.

“We had them on the ropes the whole time, and we never put them away,” said McKillop. “Guys looked at
the score and got intimidated. We stopped attacking.”

Georgia Southern

For five unbearable minutes last Wednesday in Belk Arena, the Eagles could find nothing but the bottom of the net
and the Wildcats could barely find each other. A barrage of errant passes, loose balls, and turnovers cost the Wildcats
early control of Wednesday night’s game, but an ensuing 35-minute rally overcame a 14-point deficit as Davidson emerged with a
64-56 victory over South Division foe Georgia Southern.

“We came in tentative and hesitant,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “And when you’re hesitant against a team like this
that presses and attacks, you’re going to get into trouble.” The pressure of the Eagles’ relentless defensive pressure not only
upset the Wildcats’ rhythm; it caught them off guard. Six minutes into the game, Davidson trailed 15-2.

“We were just surprised by the press,” said junior forward Chris Pearson, who led the team in points and rebounds
with 18 and 16, respectively. “It was a really good press. We started to panic and just throw the ball
around.” The Wildcats seemed to throw it everywhere but the basket, shooting 38 percent from the field in the first
half and putting on a paltry 2-for-15 performance from three-point land. Nevertheless, by halftime the Wildcats had tied the score
at 30.

“Coach calmed us down and reminded us that if the press shuts down certain people, then others are wide open,”
noted Pearson. Pearson’s three monstrous blocks punctuated the Wildcats’ second-half defensive stand, an effort characteristic of what has become a
staple of this year’s program. Davidson held Georgia Southern to just 30 percent shooting from the field over the last
20 minutes and denied the Eagles all five of their second-half three-point attempts. Pearson came alive on the other end
of the floor as well, scoring 12 of his 18 points in the second half. His two free throws with
15 seconds remaining sealed the victory.

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Feb. 23 Niagara (2) 12:00
Feb. 24 Albany 1:00
Feb. 27 Duke 3:00
Feb. 27 East Carolina 4:00

MEN’S BASKETBALL
Feb. 23 @ VMI 1:00

MEN’S INDOOR TRACK
Feb. 22-23 @ NCAA Indoor Track Championship, Fayetteville, AR

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Feb. 23 @ East Tennessee State 2:00

LACROSSE
Feb. 24 @ UNC Chapel Hill 1:00

SWIMMING
Feb. 22-23 Southern Conference Championships, Johnson City, TN

WRESTLING
Feb. 21-24 @ CAA Championships
Feb. 23 VMI, Campbell 12:00

Inspirational Quote of the Week
“Success on any major scale requires you to accept responsibility...in the final analysis, the one quality that all successful people
have...is the ability to take on responsibility.” - Michael Korda

THE WEEK AHEAD
