A Play on Words

One of Shakespeare's earliest works is also one of his wittiest—and perhaps one closest to home

By Colin Eagan
News Editor

Convinced “love is the devil”? Finding “there is no evil angel but love”? Just kinda been noticing that “young blood
doth not obey an old decree”? Fear not—in Shakespeare’s Love’s Labour’s Lost you're in good company. Portraying a world of
“heavenly love” where “Jack hath not Jill,” Love’s Labour’s is romance turned satire. The play comprises some of the most
self-estranged characters you are ever likely to meet; armed with book-smarts, they attempt to conquer love, only to realize the
dangers of conflating Knowledge and Wisdom.

What is the end of study? Can one study to love? What is love? Love’s Labour’s not only entertains but
raises more than one question appropriate to the college audience. Consider the story. Four over-achieving, college-aged guys—the King of Navarre
and his three lords—swear an oath to observe a “three year’s fast” from women in favor of a strict diet
of academics. No sooner have they done this than four college-aged gals—the Princess of France and her three ladies—arrive on
the scene to conduct a business deal. The ladies are, of course, incredibly hot (being French) and the men incredibly
horny (being men), and thus the plot is set. What follows is a hilarious chain reaction of masked loves, callow
crushes, bad pick-up lines, and witty repartee.

"Navarre hath made a vow, 'Till painful study shall outwear three years, No woman may approach his silent court."

Duke Performance Hall
April 19-22, 7:30 PM
April 23, (Shakespeare's Birthday) 10:00 AM

Characters get so caught up in how they say things they often forget what it is they are saying. While
the young lovers battle back and forth with witty repartee, other characters mock the very artifice of language through their
excessively lofty discourse. Take the scholar Holofernes, for example, a goldmine of conspicuous erudition to whose enormous vocabulary yours will
never compare (think... Davidson professor?), or Don Adriano de Armado, the pompous Spaniard and self-styled highbrow who refers to the
afternoon as the “posteriors of this day” (think... Davidson professor? Kidding.) These characters epitomize the very folly of knowledge for
knowledge’s sake; their self-image soars due to their perceived mastery of language when in fact we see they amount to
little more than the air they so garrulously spew.

By Emily Drew
Senior Staff Writer

I’m standing on a makeshift stage in Chambers gallery in a circle with 16 students, and a guest artist is
teaching us the flamenco. We’re twisting our wrists and stamping our feet, and then it’s time for voice warm-up. Chas
Willimon ’02 leads the group now. He makes one of those noises that Aaron Hauser makes in the Generals’ concerts,
and we all try to mimic him. We go around the circle, each person leading the rest of the class
in a hum, moan, grunt, sigh, or whistle.

I’m joining the Performing Shakespeare class in their acting warm-up, a five-minute take from their daily, three-hour class. Yes, I
said daily, three-hour class. And that’s not counting the extra hours put into set design, costuming, advertisement, and line memorization.
There’s also the imperative text analysis, mandatory critical study assignments, a daily journal, and a fifteen-page term paper. Every class
member plays a part in this daily drama in English 452—and appropriately so. The English seminar, offered every third year
by Dr. Cynthia Lewis, is composed of sixteen students who model an Elizabethan acting ensemble, mounting a full-scale production of
a Shakespearean play from the ground up. This year’s project: Love’s Labour's Lost. Now don’t be fooled, it’s not all
mead and revels; English 452 meets three hours a day, Monday through Thursday. And acting is...Just the beginning—other production responsibilities
must be attended to, from set construction to publicity to costumes. Join the cast April 19 through 23 as they
transform Duke Performance Hall into the biggest Shakespeare bash on campus since the RSC. The production choice seems especially appropriate.
The plot centers on men who give up wine, women, and song for the sake of learning. Soon, though, some
witty women prove even more glorious by tempting the men out of their academic celibacy.

English professor Cynthia Lewis usually offers Performing Shakespeare every three years. Even though the seminar was offered only two years
ago, the English department decided to offer the course this year in conjunction with the RSC’s residency. RSC members workshopped
with Lewis’s class during their stay, and students had an unprecedented opportunity to question and explore the complex process of
stage production. Hilary Dack ’02 said, “Working with the Royal Shakespeare Company was an opportunity that my classmates and I
recognized as invaluable. The skills we developed studying voice, movement, and comedy with company members...both informed and inspired us for
our production of Love’s Labour’s.”

The class has been combining lessons from the RSC with the precise and thorough instruction of Professor Lewis. “She knows
this play back to front. Actually, she knows Shakespeare back to front,” said one class member. “If you have any
question about the play or other works, she’ll answer it. Most importantly, she has a lot of patience.”

With only a few more days until opening night, the cast has moved to Duke Family Performance Hall for their
rehearsals. Anna Jensen ’02 confidently circles the stage in her white gloves, gold purse, and high heels. She, as the
Princess of France, exchanges flirtatious dialogue with Aaron Lohmeyer ’02, the studious King of Navarre. Off to the side, Colin
Eagan ’02 is thrusting an arrow up between his legs, perfecting the bawdy actions of Act IV, Scene II. “It’s
been an amazing, well-rounded experience,” said Rickards. “I have a newfound respect for people who do this for a living.”

This year’s production, Love’s Labour’s Lost, is a five-act comedy. In addition, every person in the seminar contributes to other
necessities involved in the production by forming committees to divide the work. Melanie Wadkins ’02 said of the experience so
far, “It’s such a worthwhile production because we really started from the bare minimum and we built it up ourselves—set,
costumes, design—everything.” With so many extra hours, this year’s production is truly a labor of love.

The play itself mocks the notion of book-smarts as an overarching focus—a commentary many of us at Small, Highly Competitive
Liberal Arts College might do well to consider. Love’s Labour’s is itself a labor to read, a true linguistic roller
coaster which pits character against character in battles of wit, bravado, and just the general outpouring of altogether too much
built-up sexual tension. Ah hah, you say, so it was this play that the founders of Davidson College had in
mind when they devised their vision of our school social life. Well, no, hopefully, as back then it was only
boys and farm animals. But you’re right—there is an uncanny similarity in subject matter. Indeed, Shakespeare understood the dangers of
all work and no play. There are certain things that academics cannot teach you, and, as it turns out, these
things just might prove to be some of the most important.

Small wonder, then, that this play contains the longest word to be found in all of Shakespeare (and, many would
argue, the longest word period), “Honorificabilitudinitatibus” (yeah, you guessed it, Latin). But who ever said loquaciousness was practical? Now wittiness
means puns and any good pun is a sex pun—and especially so when you see Wit, page 6.

Miss the RSC? So do we. Catch it at the Duke Performance Hall April 19 to 22, 7:30 PM, and
April 23 (Shakespeare’s Birthday) at 10:00 AM.
