Israel’s mission should continue. Israel’s recent actions in the West Bank, in my view, are the same as America’s mission
in Afghanistan. However, there is much more to the current situation than a response to terror. Before the Palestinian Authority
began using its media outlets to support suicide bombings, before it used its education system (partly paid for by our
government) to teach children that all Jews are evil, before branches of Yasser Arafat’s own organization began creating specialized suicide
bombing jackets, before any of the recent suicide bombings, Israel occupied the West Bank. Palestinian supporters are fully justified in
raising this fact as a way to differentiate America’s War on Terror from Israel’s current actions in the West Bank.
Some admit that suicide bombings are a crime against humanity, but they point to the so-called illegal occupation of the
West Bank and Gaza in 1967 as causes of the recent attacks. However, there is a third level of history
that dates before the 1967 war. The Arab states, some from 1948 until the present, have often called for the
destruction of Israel. When Egypt threatened to drive the Jews into the sea during that war, Israel defended itself and
defeated the combined Arab forces in six days. In the process, its military occupied Gaza and the West Bank—territories that
were not only important culturally and religiously, but also for security reasons. The resulting occupation has resulted in severe emotional
trauma for the Palestinians, as well as many human rights violations. But one must understand Israel’s reasoning. Its actions were
based on the premise of another Arab attack (which occurred in 1973). Not to mention that financially and socially Palestinians
have fared far better under Israel than under the control of their fellow Arabs. The PA agreed to police the
areas currently under its control, but instead terrorist organizations have been free to set up shop. They lure a hopeless
population with money given by outside donors and lies about Jews. As long as these groups are permitted inside the
West Bank, there will never be peace between the two sides. Politically, I understand why Bush is now demanding Sharon
pull the military out of the West Bank immediately. He fears alienating the entire Arab world, as well as Europe.
Our administration hopes to settle the Palestine issue before our attack against Iraq (which I predict will happen before the
year is out) begins. I hope, however, that behind the scenes we are telling Sharon to continue with his mission
of removing terrorist organizations from the West Bank. Until Palestinian people have a genuinely honest representative to negotiate on their
behalf, peace will never be achieved. As long as terrorist organizations control the West Bank, that representative will never arrive.

Give Palestinians peace plan. I am always shocked at the similarities between the rhetoric used by the Bush administration in
the post-9/11 world and Ariel Sharon’s rhetoric used to justify Israel’s actions in Palestine in the last six months or
so. Sharon has, rather strategically, taken cues from Bush, sometimes lifting direct phrases in order to link the U.S. campaign
in Afghanistan and elsewhere with Israel’s “war on terror.” There is one glaring problem with the comparison Sharon desperately wishes
for Americans, and the rest of the world, to make. The two situations are not the same and never will
be. Israel has illegally occupied the West Bank for nearly 40 years, not to mention the fact that the establishment
of the state of Israel in 1948 stole the homeland of and displaced a large number of Palestinians. The famous
quote that Palestine was “a land without a people for a people without a land” was both wrong and offensive
to the very real, human beings who lived on the land. Misconceptions like this are all too common. For instance,
the way people discuss the Israeli-Palestinian crisis in the media and in everyday life would lead one to believe that
the only reason the peace process did not progress as fast as it should have in the 90s is that
the Palestinian Authority did not hold up to its side of the Oslo Accords. In fact, one of the basic
agreements that has underpinned all peace negotiations is that Israel must stop building settlements in the West Bank. Peace cannot
be established when more and more of the most conservative, hard-line citizens in Israel are moving in next door to
Palestinians living in refugee camps. Can we also put to rest the myth that Yasser Arafat...Passed on a “generous offer”
from Ehud Barak? Mistakes were made by all parties at the time and negotiations probably could have continued to some
success, but to say that Arafat was wrong in not accepting Barak’s terms is just not correct. The Palestinian “state”
that would have been established if these terms had passed would not have been sovereign, but would have been divided
up into a number of separate Palestinian entities with Israeli military presence between them.

Lastly, we all would agree that it is always troubling when innocent civilians are killed. However, simple facts often get
overlooked when the deaths of civilians on both sides are reported. Four times as many Palestinians have been killed in
fighting in the last 18 months. On Tuesday, the reports of 13 Israeli soldiers being killed by Palestinian gunmen caught
all the headlines, while the fact that over 100 Palestinians died in the same bout of fighting was simply glazed
over. The Bush administration has finally begun to make it clear that Israel’s aggression in the West Bank cannot continue.
Israel must pull out and the United States must take a proactive stance in working with both sides and forcing
them to come to terms that will give both sides a workable peace.

Campaign finance reform is needed on the state level
By ALEX MASSENGALE AND JOSH CRAFT
Staff Writer and Guest Contributor

American democracy is at low ebb: public apathy is at an all-time high and voter turnout is at record lows.
The average voter believes, often rightly, that government is controlled by wealthy special interests and that his or her voice
doesn’t matter on important policy issues. The passage of the McCain-Feingold bill, banning soft money contributions to national political parties,
is a critical first step on the road to cleaning up American politics and strengthening our democracy. Soft money is
unlimited money given to political parties, which then funnel this money to individual candidates. The whole purpose is to get
around direct contribution limits, but it also drowns out the voices of common voters. Special interests pour money into campaigns
to back candidates favorable to their agenda. On issues such as energy policy, environmental regulation, and consumer safety, this trend
proves especially dangerous. In addition, the current election system is prohibitively expensive for potential candidates who are unwilling to put
their votes on the auction block.

Soft money presents the same type of problem on a state level as it does on the national level. McCain-Feingold
does nothing to rectify state problems. In fact, some soft money that went to national campaigns will shift to state
campaigns. Big special interests have a profound impact in North Carolina. At a time when North Carolina is running a
$1 billion budget deficit, the state government found it in its heart to give a $44 million tax cut to
the soda industry. The legislature’s generosity no doubt was inspired by the 302% hike in campaign contributions from the soft
drink industry. The N.C. legislature’s record is replete with examples of this type of shady dealing. According to North Carolina
Common Cause, the state gave away more than $900 million in tax exemptions to corporations and special interests last year.

A perfect example of how special interests can dominate public policy and use the power of the purse to punish
those who would challenge them comes from the case of former Duplin County state senator Cindy Watson. Ms. Watson, the
first Republican elected from Duplin County in a century, was inundated with complaints about the detrimental effects of hog waste
on her rural community. Aside from a nasty odor, hog waste kills fish and has been linked to cancer, skin
problems, and memory loss. Ms. Watson introduced legislation to put a moratorium on the creation and expansion of hog farms.
In doing so, she became a target of the powerful hog industry. The industry spent an astonishing $2.6 million to
defeat her in the Republican primary. Predictably, Ms. Watson, with a budget of around $50,000, fell victim to the industry’s
smear campaign at the expense of the health of Duplin County residents. Her case proves why campaign finance reform needs
to be extended to the state level.

The issue of campaign finance reform does not end with the passage of McCain-Feingold. Only by extending the principles of
reform to state elections can we fully restore the voice of the average citizen. We ask that the SGA do
its part in this important effort by passing a resolution in favor of campaign finance reforms at the state level.
