- Jeremy Michael Campbell ‘02

- John D. Willson ‘02

RELIGION AWARD
- Richard Blackburn Vinson ‘02

Le PRIX DE FRANÇAIS
- Kelley Elizabeth Cantrell ‘02
- Andrew John Gyves ‘02

WILLIS B. HEWITT, JR.
TEACHING AWARD
- Taleshia Quintana Murphy ‘02

MUNDO HISPÁNICO
- Molly Elizabeth Markarian ‘02

THE KEISER PRIZE IN ENGLISH
- Hilary Gail Dack ‘02

EXCELLENCE IN SCIENCE
- Richard Seth Davis ‘02
- Andrew Clay Schultz ‘02

AWARD IN CLASSICS
- Nicholas George Blackwell ‘02

HARRIS PROCTOR AWARD IN POLITICAL SCIENCE
- Shelley Loram Conroy ‘02

RICHARD ROSS MEMORIAL MUSIC AWARD
- Andrew Carl Oster ‘01

WILLIAM GATEWOOD WORKMAN PSYCHOLOGY AWARD
- Melanie Josephine Wadkins ‘02

---

Forum, from page 1:

Maryanne Warner ‘03 agreed that there is a need for more ways to get off campus. “Currently the Vamanos only
runs at night, and that does not help people without cars.”

The SGA is also working to establish a Lake Campus shuttle so more students will utilize Davidson’s private lakeshore.

An Alcohol committee, including Health Educator Georgia Ringle, gave a lengthy presentation on how to improve the types of alcohol
education on campus. “There were many specific suggestions about how we can improve the content and style of our alcohol
programs,” explained Vagt. One of the suggestions involved improving the relevance of mandatory Lifestyles Speakers; others revolved around PE 101
and other ways to re-educate the campus.

Another committee, including Dean Kathy Bray-Merrell, the Associate Dean of Students, centered around the relationship between faculty members and Patterson
Court. “Students expressed an interest in increasing the number of opportunities for quality interactions between faculty and the Court. Generally,
students were very positive when describing their relationships with professors in the classroom setting. However, the students in the group
are eager to expand those relationships to activities and conversations beyond the academic arena,” commented Bray-Merrell.

Warner, who was one of the presenters, explained, “We need to discuss some new ways to encourage student/faculty relations, outside
of only a classroom setting.” Suggestions included having more daytime activities which faculty members with families can more easily attend
and more receptions after speakers.

Additionally, this committee touched on the relationship between students and their advisors. SGA President Gray Patterson recently brought up the
issue of students who feel that their advisors are less than helpful. Vagt said that faculty members agreed with many
of Patterson’s comments, but felt that the problem—and its solution—was a two-way street.

One of the issues that had come up at the earlier social forums was a perceived split between the Union
and Patterson Court. Students expressed concern that the campus was becoming divided between those who choose to attend Union Board
events and those who prefer the traditional Court party atmosphere.

“There is going to be more coordination between the Union Board and Patterson Court organizations,” explained Vagt. “This does not
mean that if something’s going on one place, there will be nothing at the other place. It’s important that there
be options. But they will work on hosting more things together, and not scheduling major events in competition with one
another.”

Warner expressed both appreciation for the forums and optimism for their future. “I believe [the forums] show dedication to improving
life for Davidson students, faculty, and staff inside and outside of the Chambers building.

“I hope the topics discussed will be addressed again in the fall and that we can reassess the changes that
can improve and maintain the community atmosphere of the current social structure at Davidson.”

Bray-Merrell was also enthusiastic about the potential for the forums to improve campus life. “In my opinion, the power of
the social forums is in providing a venue for students to both brainstorm how they want to change the nature
of social life at Davidson and to find the means to take ownership over the process.”

“Nobody had waited to get back together to start doing stuff. That was true in every group,” claimed Vagt, who
saw much initiative on the part of forum participants. “The worst thing that can happen is that people’s wishes go
unexpressed... we need to know what’s on people’s minds.”

---

Receive A 5% Discount With A Valid Davidson College ID

Offer applies to faculty, staff, and students!

---

FULL LINE OF GENERAL REPAIR WORK ON FOREIGN & AMERICAN AUTOS

Quality Repair By People Who Care!!!

---

Hours: 7:30-5:30 M-F, 8:00-12:00 Sat.

CORNELIUS, NC
PHONE - (704) 892-6590
FAX - (704) 892-6596

LAKE NORMAN
18705 STATESVILLE RD.
CORNELIUS, NC 28031

---

Let’s Go Cats!

---

Firestone DAYTON
