12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2002.

Women’s basketball reflects on problems, progress of last month
By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

Through some disappointing losses, a buzzer-beating comeback victory, and close quarters in a local hotel, the women’s basketball team experienced some old-fashioned team bonding as it spent all except four days of Christmas break together. I had a chance to sit down with most of the girls to talk about the games and the ups and downs of 22 straight days together. Here is what they had to say.

Looking back on the break, most of the girls did not focus on losses, but rather on their evolution as a cohesive team unit. Sophomore Lindsay Shade spoke in depth about the team chemistry as she remarked that Christmas break can be “a difficult time, because the day after Christmas we have to leave our families. Luckily, we get to come here, and be with an even larger family; our coaches are like parents away from home, and our teammates are like our sisters away from home. All three classes are extremely close, and as different as we all are, our chemistry is unbelievable.”

Janna Magette agreed with Shade and offered some closing words of wisdom about the future for this dynamic team, “What we now have to realize is that every single game is important. Not just because they are conference games, but because they are the games that we are playing that day. The conference is just sitting there, waiting for someone to take it.”

Alabama
Besides exposing the girls to a much larger university and, consequently, much stronger competition, this game held a closer, more personal importance for senior guard Magette as she returned home to Birmingham. “It was great being back in Birmingham and playing in front of a home crowd. After the game, I’ve never felt so much love when I went on the court.” The love was well deserved, as Magette currently leads the team in scoring with 16.7 points per game, third-best in the Southern Conference, and dropped twenty-one points against UAB. Unfortunately, a home crowd and twenty-one points could not overcome the offensively charged Birmingham team. Led by Deanna Jackson and Natasha Thomas, with thirty-six and twenty-five points each respectively, UAB forced Davidson “to play a lot of junk defenses,” as sophomore guards Ashley Hallsted and Robyn Flewelling noted. “As a team we played really well, but their two girls were a little much for us. We couldn’t match up with them as easily as we wanted to.”

Western Carolina
From Birmingham, Davidson traveled to Cullowhee, NC to face their second conference opponent, Western Carolina. “Western was an extremely frustrating game because they are a team that we fully expected to beat. Unfortunately, they had an extremely hot shooting night, and we did not play our best.” Senior forward Bethany Schott’s comments explain all too well the essence of the Western game. The ’Cats played hard and aggressively in the first period, down by only three points at halftime. However, Western’s impressive 60.6 second-half shooting percentage, in particular a whopping 85.7 three-point shooting percentage, left Davidson wondering, as Flewelling remarked, “where their A-game went.”

UNC-Wilmington
Like Birmingham, the UNCW game was an opportunity to play a much larger team, and to establish a reputation for Davidson outside of the Southern Conference. Unfortunately, the Seahawks proved too challenging for the 'Cats, and Davidson fell 67-52. The typical rebounding woes plagued Davidson again as Wilmington out-rebounded them 55-38, and reached the charity stripe 31 times to Davidson’s nine. The highlight of the game for Davidson was Schott’s 18 points.It’s not the game that sticks around in the minds of players, but rather a challenging post-game talk from first-year head coach Annette Watts. As sophomore point guard Ashley Hallsted remarked, “The coaches actually told us that we need to do some thinking about why we’re playing, and what we want out of this year.” Teammate Robyn Flewelling chimed in, “Wilmington was a real low point for us, and we realized that things needed to be turned around.”

Furman
The Wilmington post-game talk certainly lit a fire for the Cats; they pulled out an exciting overtime victory in their next game, knocking off conference rival Furman University 80-79 in Belk Arena. Coming off a six-day break with the postponement of the January 3 UNC-Greensboro game due to snow, the girls were rested and ready for action. The Wildcats recovered from a dismal first half and battled back with the help of Schott’s career-high 19 points to send the game into overtime. Sophomore forward Courtney Laird sealed the victory with five seconds left in overtime with a tough three-point shot. “It was the most incredible feeling when the basket actually went in, because we wanted to win so badly, especially since Furman beat us last year,” Laird said. Magette chimed in to agree with Laird, saying, “It was by far the most exciting and team-oriented game of the season. It was just a brief glimpse of what this team is capable of.”

Appalachian State
Just the mention of this game evoked shudders and moans from all of the girls as they remembered the disappointing 72-58 loss to conference opponent Appalachian State University. Magette, usually a woman of few words, had plenty to say about this game, “We were coming off a high from beating Furman, and this was an opportunity for us to go 3-1 in the conference, and to change people’s attitudes toward us and toward our ability to make a statement in the conference. This was probably our biggest opportunity of the season, and we did not show up, simple as that.” Sophomore Robyn Flewelling agreed, “For as well as we played at Furman, we played just as poorly at Appalachian State.” Davidson allowed the Mountaineers to shoot 21 three-pointers, of which they made eight, while the ’Cats only made one three-pointer the whole game, shooting a miserable nine percent from behind the arc.

Wofford
In the last game of Christmas break against a tough conference team, Davidson was overwhelmed by the unbelievable shooting duo of Jenny Nett and Natalie Walsh, who combined for 62 of Wofford’s 97 points. According to Flewelling and Laird, Davidson’s game plan was “to hold Jenny Nett to under fourteen points.” As sophomore Ashley Hallsted grimly said, “We definitely did not accomplish our goal—Nett ended up with 33 points.” Four Davidson players scored in double digits, led by sophomore center Meghan Bryant’s 19, but it wasn’t enough to overcome Wofford’s hot shooting as the Cats fell to 2-3 in the Southern Conference, 5-8 overall.

Inspirational Quote of the Week
We must combine the toughness of the serpent and the softness of the dove, a tough mind and a tender heart.
-Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

THE WEEK AHEAD
Matt Whited
Chris Pearson drives to the basket during Davidson’s 73-66 victory over ETSU. See men’s hoops holiday round-up, page 10.

MEN’S BASKETBALL
Jan. 26 Western Carolina - 7:00
Jan. 30 Wofford - 7:00

SWIMMING
Jan. 26 @ College of Charleston - 1:00
Jan. 30 Duke University - 5:00

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Jan. 26 @ College of Charleston - TBA
Jan. 28 Western Carolina - 7:00

INDOOR TRACK
Jan. 25-26 Blue Heaven Track & Field Rumble (Chapel Hill, NC)