The Davidsonian | WEDNESDAY, March 20, 2002

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

ALBUQUERQUE—Sports author John Feinstein says that for most mid-major basketball teams, reaching the NCAA Tournament is like going to the
Super Bowl. For this Davidson team, however, simply making the trip was not enough. The Wildcats traveled west in their
first NCAA appearance since 1998 not only hoping for a victory, but also expecting one.

On several occasions during Thursday’s 69-64 loss to Ohio State at The Pit in the first round of the West
Regional, it seemed their expectations might come true. Despite being without senior point guard Michael Bree, who sustained a pinched
nerve in the Southern Conference Tournament semifinals, Davidson outplayed the Big Ten champions in almost every facet of the game,
finishing with more rebounds, assists, blocks, and steals, as well as a higher field goal percentage. But in the end,
Ohio State senior guard Brian Brown made a few too many shots, the Wildcats missed a few too many, and
the Buckeyes escaped with a slim victory.

“We beat a very good basketball team today,” said Ohio State coach Jim O’Brien two days before his team was
eliminated by Missouri in the second round. “They are every bit as difficult to match up with as anybody we’ve
played all year long.”

Every time the Wildcats seized momentum, Brown responded with a big play, finishing with a career-high 33 points on 13-of-19
shooting. “Brown was sensational,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop. “Clearly, we could not stop him.”

But they came awfully close. Chris Pearson’s jumper in the lane gave the Wildcats a 59-58 lead at the 4:30
mark, bringing the crowd of 13,661 roaring to its feet in admiration of a Davidson team that few had even
heard of before Thursday. “It seemed like Davidson was playing on its home court,” said Brown. “I guess everyone tries
to root for the underdog.”

Seconds later, Brown quieted the crowd with a jumper, then another three-pointer on Ohio State’s next possession. Just like that,
a one-point Davidson lead became a four-point deficit. The Wildcats didn’t give up though, pulling to within 65-64 when Peter
Anderer drilled a three-pointer with a hand in his face with 35.7 seconds left. “I was laughing because I got
a finger on the ball and if I hadn’t, the ball probably wouldn’t have gone in,” said Brown.

Davidson’s last gasp failed when Wayne Bernard missed a lay-up that would have cut Ohio State’s lead to 67-66 with
eight seconds left. Senior center Martin Ides completed his career with what may have been his finest game ever, contributing
20 points, seven rebounds and three blocks. The Buckeyes chose not to double-team the post, leaving Ides open for an
array of hook shots, jumpers, and even a reverse lay-up to open the second half.

“Why would we step onto the court if we didn’t expect to win?” said Ides. “We came here expecting to
win. As I stepped on the court, I wanted to give it all I had, knowing that it could be
[my last game].” Anderer finished with 11 points, including three three-pointers, while Emeka Erege added 13 points.

Ohio State decided to concentrate on shutting down Davidson’s three-point shooters, which left post players like Ides plenty of room
to operate. “We were very fearful of their three-point shooting potential,” O’Brien said. “And we knew their big guys would
be hard to guard. So we had to pick our poison and decided to go after their guards on the
perimeter.”Strategy worked, as the Wildcats converted only 4-of-15 three-pointers. But with clutch shooting from Ides and Pearson, who finished with
nine points, Davidson kept it close until the end. Four years after losing to Michigan 80-61 in Davidson’s last NCAA
Tournament appearance, McKillop said he was proud that his team cared only about winning, not simply enjoying the trip. “They
clearly demonstrated that they are not to be dismissed as a mid-major program,” he said. “They showed they deserved to
be here. I was very proud to be their coach.”

Inspirational Quote of the Week
Only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly.
-Robert F. Kennedy

Bitter end to women’s season
By Erin Delk
Staff Writer

A disappointing SoCon tournament

Nearly two and a half weeks after their first-round loss to Appalachian State 64-63 in the Southern Conference Tournament, the
Davidson Wildcats still have not fully digested the details of their season-ending game. Mention of the tournament immediately elicited groans
and shudders from the team as they remembered the disappointing result. “That last game was like a dream, unfortunately; it
was so shocking,” remarked sophomore forward Courtney Laird. As sophomore point guard Lindsay Shade noted, the girls “started the game
a little jittery, and shot more air balls in the first half than we had all season.” Luckily, though, the
Cats found themselves down by only four points at half, and clawed back to take their first lead in the
second half, 34-32, on a three-point basket by Shade. The two teams fought back and forth for the lead until
play stopped at 60 even with one minute to play. Davidson senior guard Janna Magette put the Wildcats up by
one with 46 seconds to play, but the Mountaineers quickly answered. With 15.9 seconds left, Davidson put up two valiant
last-chance shots, only to see them, along with the game and the season, rim in and out and bounce away
as the final buzzer sounded.

As senior forward and tri-captain Kelly Copland said, “the team came into the game very confident and well-prepared.” According to
sophomore point guard Ashley Hallsted, the same problem that plagued the ’Cats throughout the year manifested itself in the tournament,
that of “a struggle not only playing against the other team, but also playing against ourselves.” With a long sigh
and some touchingly heartfelt last words, Shade expressed the unstated emotion running throughout all of the girls, “I don’t know
exactly what happened, but I do remember the taste I had in my mouth when I realized we had lost,
and I won’t forget it until we redeem ourselves next year.”

Three standout seniors

Finishing the season with a 10-18 overall record, 6-12 in conference play, the Davidson Wildcats will graduate three outstanding seniors:
Kelly Copland, Janna Magette, and D’Erica Taylor. Due to extremely painful double knee surgeries, Taylor unfortunately was not able to
play in her last two seasons as a Wildcat; however, her contribution to the team extended much further than her
freshman and sophomore seasons. Her injury, while devastating and career-ending, allowed Taylor to develop into a charismatic leader off the
court. Known to most as “Dee,” Taylor’s

see Women, page 9

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Mar. 23 UNC Greensboro (2) 12:00
Mar. 24 UNC Greensboro 1:00
Mar. 26 High Point 3:00

GOLF
Mar. 22-24 @ Furman Invitational

LACROSSE
Mar. 21 @ Richmond 3:30
Mar. 26 @ Virginia Tech 4:00

MEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 22 Marquette 2:00
Mar. 24 Wofford 1:00

WOMEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 22 @ Winthrop 2:30
Mar. 24 Wofford 1:00
Mar. 26 @ Western Carolina 3:00
Mar. 27 @ Furman 3:00

TRACK & FIELD
Mar. 23 Irwin Belk Invitational
