Staff Editorial

Imagine the surprise that hip-hop fans in the Charlotte area will experience when they hear about the Ludacris concert in Belk Arena on May 1. A famous rapper coming to Davidson College? Any rapper coming to Davidson College? It’s not something anyone expects to hear. But thanks to the efforts of the Union Board Concert Committee, led by freshman Nate Cox, sophomore Mbye Nijie, and other student leaders, the popular hip-hop artist will rock our normally tranquil campus in just three weeks.

More importantly, Ludacris will go a long way toward shattering the widely-held belief that Davidson caters primarily to rich, preppy, white Southerners. Yes, it’s only one concert, and with a contract-mandated length of 75 minutes, a pretty short one at that. But bringing Ludacris to campus represents a major—not to mention expensive—attempt to provide entertainment that appeals to African-Americans as much as any other group on campus. Several black students have taken the microphone at the recent social forums to encourage administrators to diversify the school’s entertainment offerings. Hopefully, the show will help to satisfy that request.

Last year’s disastrous Train concert in Belk Arena drew only a few hundred students, and the school lost thousands of dollars. Counting Crows performed to a near-capacity crowd in October, but once again, the school chose not to break out of the alternative rock genre. It’s safe to say that you won’t hear any acoustic guitar solos or heartbroken love ballads when Ludacris performs on May 1.

College president Bobby Vagt gave full support to the concert after a campus-wide survey found interest to be high among students. In doing so, he’s taking a risk. It is possible that faculty members and students will object to the profane, often sexually-themed language used in several Ludacris songs. They may be appalled that a College President would support such an endeavor. But maybe Vagt would rather face opposition than bring in another alternative rock band, and once again miss an opportunity to diversify the type of entertainment offered to its students.

We think it’s a great idea, and we congratulate the Union Board for making such a bold selection, and President Vagt for supporting it. It’s about time that Davidson breaks new ground in bringing a fresh genre of music to its campus. Coupled with the Counting Crows concert, this surely will go down as one of the best concert years in school history.

The Davidsonian

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Timothy Cook, Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin, Colin Eagan, Emily Drew (Assistant)

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh, Gavin Weber

Sports Editor
Caroline Hauser

Photography Editors
Faia Berry, Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Lartimore, Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

English Department

YOU CAN STOP STARVING YOURSELF AND EAT LIKE A NORMAL PERSON NOW. WILL YOU MARRY ME?

Anti-semitism at Davidson

In response to “Anti-semitism at Davidson” (Letter, Katharine Lurie, April 10). I sat across from Katherine at the Passover Seder three weeks ago; however, I came away from the meal with a very different reaction. Rather than focusing on the negative in the conversation around me, I remarked how many non-Jews (students, faculty, and administrators) were there in support of their fellow Davidsonians. Though I have never been the subject of anti-Semitism at Davidson, I do not see it as a non-issue. Rather, I think the role of any religious minority on campus is to educate those around them who are willing to learn. Davidson is strongly rooted in the Presbyterian Church; nevertheless, all of us came here for the same reason—to learn. We all have the opportunity to teach each other; what better way to learn than from your peers? Chances are you have as much to learn about someone else’s faith as they have to learn about yours. Instead of dwelling on a handful of bad experiences, seize the opportunity to make a change, and you may be surprised by learning something yourself. Life at Davidson is usually thought of as being in a bubble, distant from the “real world,” but Katherine’s letter opened our eyes to a “real world” hardship that can only be overcome if both parties have open ears, minds, and hearts.

Andrew Schapiro ‘05

As I have told her directly, I appreciated Katharine Lurie’s letter reminding readers of The Davidsonian that anti-Semitism still exists and that it still exists at Davidson College. I was troubled, though, by her sometimes inaccurate representation of a panel discussion I moderated in February, “Shakespeare and Shylock’s ‘Tribe’: Representations of Jews Before and After Shakespeare.” About a number of things Ms. Lurie is clearly right. For instance, there were no Jews on the panel. And although I helped organize the discussion, I did not realize that none of the panelists were Jewish until the discussion itself was underway. Because the panel was put together as an academic dialogue among faculty and members of the RSC, panelists were invited according to their academic specializations, not their religion. We shouldhave also considered religious affiliation, for the reasons that Ms. Lurie mentions. In other sections of her letter, though, Ms. Lurie misrepresents the panel discussion. At no point did the panel unanimously conclude that “anti-Semitism does not exist in America today.” Quite the opposite: the panel was organized precisely because we did not want anti-Semitism to be ignored or located safely in the past. Indeed I—and I will only speak for myself here—believed that a Protestant-affiliated college should consider the implications of celebrating its grand new theater with representations of Jews cursed and spat upon. The RSC has come and gone, but as Ms. Lurie’s letter suggests, the need for considering that question, and many others, is still here.

Randy Ingram

Outside of the classroom, and back in the day (i.e. two or three years ago) there was rarely a weekend night without a Patterson Court party, yet this year there seems to be an abundance of weekends without parties. I’ve given this some thought and determined that the fraternities have continued to throw parties on a consistent basis. In fact, some have a party every week! So, what’s missing from the court this year? With the exception of maybe Connor, the eating houses have fallen far short of their former glory (Connor has come a long way since it didn’t have any past glory). The biggest and perhaps only benefit of having eating houses instead of sororities is that they can host parties. I understand that Turner stays busy with Bible studies and CoHo is more concerned with saving the whales or ridding the world of Styrofoam, but there are still some rock stars in Warner and Rusk. Yeah, they still have their formals and semi-formals and they’re fairly good about co-sponsoring parties, but what happened to the random band and DJ parties at the eating houses? These houses have huge budgets compared to most fraternities, so I’m forced to wonder what they do with all that money.

There are four factors to remember when planning a party: conflicting events, advertising, music/theme, and BEER. For the most part, the houses tend to do a good job of advertising, and, if the lack of parties this year is an indication of things to come, there shouldn’t be much trouble finding a weekend night that’s free of other events. The worst thing you could do would be to go up to bat against a “megaparty” like 70’s Party, Club KA, Tacky Party, Brother Buffet and the like. Also, please remember that nothing kills a party like running out of beer, so plan ahead and stock up on the Beast! Now, about your choice of music and theme: If you really want guys to come and enjoy your party then pick music and a theme with which guys can identify (i.e. not many guys want to listen to Madonna all night). Actually, you’re probably better off not even having a theme. Pick a good date, advertise, and get a good band or a DJ that plays music people actually listen to and you have all the ingredients for a good party.

To all the houses on the Court: The year’s not over, so let’s pick up the slack and end the year with a bang! To those of you with whom I’ve offended, well, you’re probably not someone I know anyway and since I graduate in a month, I’m not going to concern myself with your fragile sensibilities. To those that say there’s more to college than partying, I say there’s more to college than learning!

Ryan Pagan ‘02

From the Honor Council

Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff:

Just before spring break, we had the good fortune of being elected Chair and Secretary of Davidson’s Honor Council. We’re honored that the members of the Council have placed their confidence in us, and thrilled to serve the College’s long tradition of its Honor Code. Certainly, our first priority will be the conduct of hearings in a thoughtful, thorough, and impartial manner. Our outgoing Chair and Secretary—Will Parker and Tara Davidson—did this well; we thank them for their example.

Our emphasis this year will be in positioning the Honor Council to better fulfill its responsibility of promoting understanding, discussion, and critical thought of the school’s Honor Code. To this end, the Council has crafted an ambitious set of initiatives. In implementing these initiatives, the Council is organizing into active committees and chartering a student organization so that it may apply for funding for its plans. At the same time, we ask that you—whether student, staff, or faculty—also embrace our vision of constant reflection about the Code. We ask that you question applications of the Honor Code in its everyday use; we encourage open debate and the resolution of any uncertainties you may have. Above all, we ask simply that you—everyone—talk about the Code.

Thank you for your support of Davidson’s Honor Code; please let us know if you ever have questions or comments about what we’re doing.

Sincerely,

Rebecca J. Moore
Mary F. Carpenter
Chair
Secretary