we

A so-called Waking Life

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

It’s that time again, boys and girls. Paper after take-home after paper after exam. And then the lucky ones have more on top of that: baseball practice, laying out The Davidsonian, work-study, tanning at the Lake. So, fellow crammers and self-scheduling examinees, I have for you a suggestion. When the going gets tough, and you don’t get going, in what useless activity will you partake? Don’t reach for your roommate’s PS2 controller. Don’t select Donkey Kong for another match of Mario Tennis. And stay away from the spiced rum.

“But Derek, if I can’t do those things, what can I do when my poor, overworked body succumbs to procrastination?”

Well, I'll tell you, and of course, it’s watching a movie. Get your hands on this quaint, little film called Waking Life. It hits Blockbuster on Tuesday. Richard Linklater wrote and directed Waking Life, and he’s also the guy responsible for Dazed and Confused.

“Oh my god, I LOVE Dazed and Confused!”

Yeah, that’s right. I know you love Dazed and Confused, and you'll love Waking Life more. Wiley Wiggins — that’s Mitch Kramer — leads us through a series of interlocking stories and ideas, some that blow our minds, some that make us laugh, and some that go right over our heads.

“Dude, this organic chemistry stuff is flying over my dome as we speak. I don’t think I can handle any more academic who-na-na.”

Don’t fret, little one. Indeed, Waking Life is the stuff of philosophy and intellectual mumbo-jumbo. For example, one character wonders how she feels younger and more alive every day even though the passage of time only brings her closer to death. Remember though, with philosophy and movies like 2001: A Space Odyssey and Mulholland Drive, enjoyment and appreciation do not necessitate comprehension.

In terms of thought provocation, Waking Life has as much as possible, which is precisely why it makes the perfect study break movie. There’s little plot and much meandering, not only between characters, but also between reality and the dream world. You don’t have to worry about what’s on the bottom of a coffee mug, why Tyler Durden only talks to Edward Norton, and how Leonard’s wife dies. No, no, Waking Life is not some cheap gimmick of film that clings to silly details and plot reversals like they’re going out of style.

“Ohh, come on. Memento is awesome and The Usual Suspects is the best movie ever.”

You’re wrong. Very, very wrong. But back to Waking Life as the perfect study break. Of course, attention must be paid, but each scene stands, to some degree, on its own.

You could very well close up The Heart of Midlothian, turn off your brain, press play on the VCR, and then head back to Sir Scott after fifteen or twenty minutes of the Linklater film.

Also, Waking Life looks like no other movie you’ve seen. It’s been animated using a technique called rotoscoping.

“Hold on, Buck-O. I don’t have time for ‘Under the Sea.’”

Trust me on this one: there are no talking crabs. Linklater filmed the movie using handheld cameras and then, using computers, he and his team animated the footage. The effect is hard to describe, but if a dream could be put on film, it would resemble the images in Waking Life.

Also, Linklater’s Tape was recently released on video. Unlike with Life, plot drives that movie: it is all about what happened and who knows what happened during a high school party. I highly recommend that film, but not for this coming week. Stick with Waking Life: it’s a refreshing, challenging film that provides relief without insult. Waking Life could also provide hours of contemplation, but if your week is as busy as your peers’, just pop it in, sit back, and enjoy.

---

Mexico/Caribbean:
$300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax

Book TICKETS ONLINE

www.airtech.com
or 212-219-7000

---

The Davidsonian
WEDNESDAY,
May 1, 2002

---

The Soda Shop

Since 1951

Breakfast Burritos
Omelets
Classic Burgers
Hot Dogs
Milkshakes
Eat-in Take-out
104 S. Main St. Davidson, NC

---

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN

ED STURBAUER, F.N.A.O.

Continuing our policy of offering Davidson students, faculty and employees a 20% discount on eyewear and special prices on eye exams.