Three ‘Cats notch double-doubles to wrap up tumultuous week with win - By Mike Giglio, Sports Editor

After a hectic week that saw the Davidson volleyball team play three games on the road, it’s good to get
back home. And after ending the week with a strong victory after a series of five straight losses, it’s even
better to be back on the winning side of things.

The Wildcats began the week by continuing their losing streak, with a loss that was almost a foregone conclusion as
the team faced a nationally ranked University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tuesday night. Off to their best start
since 1981 (9-1), the Tar Heels stand at number eighteen in the country. In the first game of the match,
UNC showed its strength, doubling Davidson’s score in winning the match 30-15. The ‘Cats improved in the next game, however,
losing 30-20. They then put together their best effort of the night as they fell just two points short in
the final game.

“We pushed them to the limit in game three,” Davidson Coach Tim Cowie remarked, “but it wasn’t enough.” Despite the
loss, the Wildcats played strong and, impressively, even managed to outplay the ‘Heels over the middle. Said Cowie, “Our middles
played with and were probably even better than their middles.”

But, he added, “They do a lot of other things well. They’re a real strong team, and they’re number eighteen
for a reason.” Coach Cowie and the rest of the team nonetheless recognize the positive statement made by the team’s
refusal to quit. “UNC is one of the best teams in the country,” he said. “We didn’t roll over and
die and that earned us some respect.”

Unfortunately, the ‘Cats were unable to build off this strong effort on Saturday against Western Carolina. The team struggled badly
and lost in three games (30-23, 30-15, 30-18) to a team that Coach Cowie and his players feel they should
have been able to beat. Said Roberta Quis, “The Western Carolina match was extremely disappointing. I am glad we have
a chance to redeem ourselves.”

“We went and got the monkey off our backs.” - Coach Tim Cowie

---

* Literature
* Mathematics
* Music and Civilizations
* Philosophy
* Afro-American Studies
* Anthropology
* Applied Mathematics
* Astronomy and Astrophysics
* Biochemical Sciences
* Biology
* Chemistry
* Chemistry and Physics
* Classics
* Computer Science
* Government
* History
* History and Literature
* History and Science
* History of Art and Architecture
* Linguistics

An opportunity to pursue your passion for learning in our environment:

McMASTER-CARR is a distributor of products used to maintain, repair, and operate everything from movie sets to manufacturing facilities. We
market speed and convenience as our competitive edge. For more than 100 years, the caliber of our people, the operating
systems we have developed, and our pursuit of continuous improvement have enabled us to be considered among the best-of-the-best by
our customers. We are looking for individuals who have demonstrated excellence through achievement. As a management candidate, you may start
in a role focusing on issues that affect our business. You will have ample opportunity to demonstrate your ability to
analyze processes, solve problems, and implement change. Our benefits and compensation reflect our desire to attract and retain the very
best people while providing for a work/life balance.

McMaster-Carr Supply Company Career Fair — September 27th
Campus Interviews — October 25th
Submit your resume on Erecruitingnetwork by October 4th

Locations:
* Atlanta, GA
* Chicago, IL
* Cleveland, OH
* Los Angeles, CAOurselves at the end of October when we play them again at home.” Coach Cowie was equally
annoyed. “We just didn’t show up for the Western Carolina game. It was probably the worst match we’ve played all
season. We didn’t challenge at all, and we weren’t ready to play.” He, too, is happy about the team’s chance
for revenge later this season. “They’re definitely a team we want a chance to play again, and thankfully we’ll get
that chance for redemption later in the year.”

The Wildcats were able to bounce back from this upsetting loss Sunday afternoon, when they defeated Chattanooga to end their
winless streak. Sophomore Julia Hueckel had a match-high twenty-two kills and eleven digs to lead the team. Rebecca Teichgraeber and
Nicole Tonelli added double-doubles of their own, as Teichgraeber posted twelve putaways and twelve digs and Tonelli amassed fifty-seven assists
and fifteen digs. Defensively, Davidson tied a season high with fourteen blocks, with Quis involving herself in nine and Hueckel
taking part in eight.

The ‘Cats came out strong in the contest, perhaps looking to put the disappointment of the previous day behind them
as quickly as possible. They won the first game of the match 30-28 before taking a step backwards and losing
the second 27-30, which prolonged the match before the ‘Cats were able to dispose of the Mocs 30-25 and 30-24
in the final two games. “We had some costly errors in game two,” said Coach Cowie, “which forced the match
to go to four games.” The ‘Cats will gladly look past those mistakes and focus on their long-awaited victory. According
to Quis, that victory couldn’t have come against a better team. “The victory over Chattanooga was sweet revenge for knocking
us out of the Southern Conference tournament last season,” she says. “This was also a good boost for our confidence
as we face UNCG and Georgia Southern, the conference leader, this week.”

What’s the best way to reach over 3000 members of Davidson’s campus and the surrounding area? Advertise in the Davidsonian!
For more information or to reserve ad space, contact Gregg Wallace (704-894-7087, grwallace@davidson.edu) or Jeff Larrimore (704-894-6743, jelarrimore@davidson.edu).

Volleyball rebounds against Chattanooga to halt five-game skid

“We went and got the monkey off our backs,” Cowie explained. “It’s always tough being on the road, but we
played really well against Chattanooga.” Hopefully, the team has put its inconsistencies behind them. If so, they can rebound from
their recent slump and make a strong push in the Southern Conference, where with a 2-1 record the Wildcats are
still right in the mix of things. The ‘Cats will test their ability to do just that this week with
conference games against conference opponents UNC Greensboro (Tuesday at 7 p.m. at Greensboro) and Georgia Southern (Sunday at 2 p.m.
at home).

Comments Teichgraeber on the state of her team, “I feel that we broke out of our slump this weekend. After
a run of lackluster performances, we showed some great heart and brought our goals back into focus. When we play
as a team, good things happen.” She adds, “There were certain weaknesses exposed over our losing streak that will be
addressed and resolved so that we can continue to pursue the Southern Conference title. I continue to have faith in
our abilities, and as a team we know that hard work will pay off.”
