Young guns lead the way in weekend routs of VMI, Gardner-Webb, Radford

By ASHLEIGH FINN

The Davidson swimming and diving team made a strong showing this past weekend against Gardner-Webb, Radford, and VMI. With the
support of a large crowd of friends, family, and alumni, both the men’s and women’s teams were able to secure
an outstanding victory. The women’s team defeated Gardner-Webb 165.5-71.5 and Radford 203-35. The men’s team crushed VMI with a final
score of 164-57.

Virginia Military Institute was left in a humongous wake by the Davidson men’s team. The Keydets were crushed in 13
events, led mainly by the Wildcat underclassmen. Freshmen Brad Poole and Steve Tolson, in their second NCAA competition of the
year, were able to achieve two victories each. Poole cruised in his sprint freestyle events, winning both the 100 and
200 free with times of 49.39 and 1:48.20. Tolson seized a victory in the 100 fly (55.86) and the 50
free (22.40), nabbing two winning places for men’s swimming.

Sophomore Michael Paul Flowers had a time of 10:20.62 in the 1000 free, with almost a five-minute lead over his
primary competition. Flowers also gained a victory in the 100 back (56.70). Diver Chris Wrobeleski won two events as well,
in both the three-meter (197.78) and one-meter (235.35) springboard. The men’s relay team was successful as well, scoring two victories
over the VMI Keydets. Juniors Michael Mazza, Beau Dasher, sophomore Foster Matthews, and freshman Adam Secrest won the 400 medley
in 3:48.43. Junior Robert Koch, Flowers, Tolson, and Poole notched first-place in the 400 free relay with a winning time
of 3:19.40. Matthews grabbed a first-place win in the 100 breast as well with a time of 1:03.36.

The Wildcat women showed strong leadership in a majority of the events. Megan Hollar led the charge with her 2:09.61
finish in the 200 IM, earning her place in the Davidson records with the second-fastest time in school history. Hollar
also won the 100 breast (1:05.88). The junior women dominated the meet, winning six events. Both Vanessa Witt and Jenny
Bruggers were at the forefront of the junior class, claiming two victories each. Witt earned victories in both the 200
free and the 100 fly, posting times of 1:58.61 and 1:00.76. Diver Jenny Bruggers gained a first-place finish in the
one-meter (169.73) and three-meter (176.55) springboard.

The 400 free relay team (freshman Kristen Shields, Casey Grimes, junior Becki Lyons, sophomore Jamie Sasanfar) and the 400 medley
relay team (sophomore Jenny Hoekstra, junior Sarah Laws, Witt, and Hollar) helped to raise Davidson’s crushing score against Gardner-Webb and
Radford. Sophomore Melissa Marquez commented on Davidson’s overwhelming success against the two schools. “It feels great to have a winning
record. We’ve really pulled together as a team and are looking forward to upholding our winning season in future competitions.”

The John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University is looking for future leaders in public affairs.GOVERNMENT Master Degree
Programs

Two-year Master in Public Policy (MPP)
Two-year Master in Public Policy/Urban Planning (MPP/UP)
Two-year Master in Public Administration (MPA/2)
Two-year Master in Public Administration in International Development (MPA/ID)
One-year Mid-Career Master in Public Administration (MC/MPA)

Concentrations Available:
Business and Government Policy; Crime and Criminal Justice; Environmental and Natural Resources; Health Care Policy; Human Resources, Labor and Education;
Housing, Urban Development and Transportation; International Security and Political Economy; International Trade and Finance; Nonprofit Sector; Political Advocacy and Leadership;
Political and Economic Development; Press, Politics and Public Policy; Science, Technology and Public Policy.

If you would like to know more about the programs offered at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, please
join a Kennedy School representative for an information session on:
- November 15th at 4:30 PM
- November 24th at 4:30 PM

1779 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 5th Floor Conference Room
RSVP: Colin Buckley, 617-496-7414
For more information call: 617-495-1155
Website: http://www.ksg.harvard.edu
Email: KSG_admissions@harvard.edu

Eron Earley-Thiele Junior Denielle Erickson wards off two Furman defenders.

Women’s soccer splits SoCon matches
By Justin NEILL, Staff Writer

After a crushing 4-0 loss to league-leading Furman on Wednesday night, the women’s soccer team rebounded with an impressive 2-0
victory over Wofford on Sunday in their final home game of the season. The win improved their record to 5-2-1
in the conference and 7-8-1 overall.

Facing difficult Furman in their first game of the week was certainly a test. The Lady Paladins had only given
up two goals in conference play coming into the game, and that number did not increase during the match. Davidson
was held to seven shots, with Paladin goalie Andie Henshaw making three saves.

On Sunday, the Wildcats came out fired up on defense, and it showed, as they allowed Wofford only five shots.
Hobart made three saves on the afternoon for the shutout. Freshman Cady Blackey set up the first goal in the
33rd minute with a pass to senior co-captain Heather Maloney, who set up her twin sister, co-captain Tara, for her
third goal of the season. The Wildcats took a 1-0 lead into halftime.

The Terriers came out stronger after halftime, but key defensive plays kept them scoreless. Wofford’s Christine Pezzutti made a corner
kick that was heading into the net, but freshman Brittany Eddy headed it away. Another potential Wofford goal was kicked
away by freshman Kara Koehrn. In the 79th minute, Tara Maloney assisted Leigh Anne Hoskins on her sixth goal of
the season. It was Maloney’s fourth assist of the season, giving her 23 for her career.

Three games remain for the Wildcats next week before the SoCon tournament. First, on Wednesday, they travel to UNC-Greensboro for
a conference matchup against the Spartans (6-10-1, 3-5-1). They then travel to UNC-Wilmington on Saturday for a non-conference match-up, which
is followed by a makeup game at College of Charleston in their final regular-season contest.
