Editorial

Stop and think for a moment about where you were and what you were doing a year ago next Wednesday,
just as your computer and TV screens began to display those ghastly images from New York and Washington.

So much has changed between that moment and now, and we haven’t even come close to realizing the full extent.
Without a doubt, the majority of those changes have been negative.

We live and work every day under the threat of another attack, potentially one even more deadly than Sept. 11.
We are faced with tighter security not only in government offices but also at sporting events and public gatherings. We’re
more cautious, more fearful, and maybe more pessimistic about the future.

But there is cause for pride, even for Davidson students. It’s refreshing that next week’s 9/11 events will strive to
recognize and respect students of all ethnicities and religions, namely the 30 or so international students on our campus.

“Some people get so wrapped up in the American perspective, they fail to see the rest of the world has
been affected,” says Nidhi Paul ’03, president of the Davidson International Association.

That’s the approach that College Chaplain Rob Spach and the students and faculty on his 9/11 planning committee seem to
have taken in planning Wednesday’s events, and it’s the right one.

The first anniversary of the attacks will not simply be used to display American pride at Davidson. Instead, Wednesday will
in many ways be a solemn celebration of the diversity that exists on our campus and world.

Students of Jewish, Hindu, Buddhist, Protestant, and other religious traditions will lead an interfaith prayer vigil outside the Union, and
a flag from every country represented by our student body will be displayed during the event.

Americans have been uniquely affected since 9/11, and there are many reasons for our nation to be proud. But we
do ourselves and what we stand for a great disservice if we fail to properly acknowledge that Americans weren’t the
only ones affected by the attacks. Paul and all the international students on campus, along with thousands of others around
the nation, are living proof.

We can’t offer a final critique of the 9/11 commemorative events until they’ve taken place, but it is clear that
the spirit with which they were planned was fitting and proper.

Hopefully, that spirit can permeate our experiences on Wednesday—and beyond.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin Eagan, Matt Garfield
News Editors
Caroline Hauser, Emily Drew
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin, Wes Schmader

No, No, NO...
FIRST INNOCENT RELIGION
TO WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION,
THEN WE WENT FOR
THE DAMN CIVILIZED WAR

As part of our effort to commemorate the first anniversary of Sept. 11, we invite our readers to contribute thoughts
and reflections about 9/11 and the year since.

Cut the sprinklers, not our trees

Since I have been back at Davidson, I’ve noticed a couple of disturbing things around campus: First, there are sprinklers
running in the evening between Duke Hall and the Knobloch Campus Center (even when it is raining). Also, one of
the large oak trees by the laundry was cut down.

Mecklenburg and its surrounding counties are in a drought. We are on voluntary, not mandatory, water restrictions, so are the
sprinklers really necessary? It is wonderful that Davidson does not have a permanent sprinkler system that covers all of campus,
but I question the necessity of watering the lawn when the area by the edge of the path that leads
into the Union by the amphitheatre is turning into a swamp.

I was also troubled to see the beautiful oak tree that used to stand by the laundry parking lot lying
on the bed of a truck. I looked at all the logs closely and did not see one rotten spot.
I have heard that the campus has lost several large trees to the drought, but this tree was covered in
green leaves. If we are losing large trees because of the drought, then why are we wasting water on the
lawn instead of using it to save the trees? Trees take decades to re-grow; the grass will be green again
in three months.

Last semester Davidson had the privilege of hosting Julia Butterfly Hill, who is the environmentalist known for living in one
of the old redwood trees in California in order to protect it from loggers. The message she delivered about the
importance of caring for the environment was quite moving, but not as moving as her call for people to take
action in defense of the local environment.

While watching the sprinklers by the Union and smelling the fresh cut oak by the laundry, I cannot help but
think that we are far from meeting the goals that Ms. Hill challenged us to work toward.

The newspaper will be distributed on the evening of Sept. 11, and with your help, we can make it one
to cherish.

Please e-mail davidsonian@davidson.edu by Monday, Sept. 9. We hope to print as many contributions as possible.

Margaret Holt ‘03

INNOCENCE.
