a cola. the health advisors

RESPECT, OR LACK THEREOF, AT DAVIDSON

Steve Clugston: Get those hands out! How disconcerting is it when you meet a new person, only to see them
walking around in the hall with their hand down their pants? Why does it happen? I guess testicular comfort would
be the most popular answer. But is it even worth questioning the proportions of such hygienic undernourishment? Such modern-day etiquette
has been praised for its uniqueness and originality in groin-comforting hand-warming techniques, but people seem to be enjoying this indirect
groin-hand interaction less and less... should it be banned? Might as well walk down to the showers naked... no, wait,
that already happens!! How about revealing to all, the secret khaki-colored mushy-consistency of vegetables and burger in your mouth while
blasting out some politically incorrect joke at the dinner table? Very appetizing. But at least it harmonizes well with the
sweet trumpeting burps that surge after every sip of soda that coagulates into your throat for you to spit out
onto the lush green lawns of Davidson College, very artistic. No need to consider the fact that some professors find
it rude to wear hats and caps during class lectures even if there isn’t any sun inside on that particular
day, because he’s a buddy and doesn’t deserve respect for his doctorate-level degree he spent many years of his life
obtaining. Now, take all this behavior and apply it to life after college, what an interesting effect that would have.
We constantly have tour groups and prospective students visiting our prestigious campus. They are here to explore the high academic
caliber of Davidson College, but look past such ever-impressive social conduct.

Jenn Greene: Do you comment on every remark a professor says? Do you ask so many questions that the professor
has stopped calling on you? Do your answers to questions ramble on so long that the professor has begun to
impose a time limit as soon as you start to speak? Do you feel compulsively urged to interrupt, interject, or
impose your opinions in every class that you attend? If you answered “yes” to these questions, please heed: more than
likely, your presence is becoming an annoyance to your fellow classmates. While I’m all for asking intelligent questions, asking questions
just to “input” in the class is obnoxious and, honestly, a waste of time. Well-planned, logical, but most importantly, relevant
comments and questions are appreciated, and can definitely serve to further discussion. Questions for clarification are perfectly okay as well.
However, asking a totally unrelated question when the professor is talking about a topic is ridiculous. I am paying a
great deal of money to learn the subject material for the class, not to trace the wanderings and tangents of
your mind. If you have a question that really doesn’t pertain to the class topic during lecture, please wait until
after class to address it. It is exceedingly rude to take up lecture time with extraneous questions, particularly when the
professor has a set amount of material he/she intends to cover. You don’t have to speak all the time to
sound intelligent. A few well-placed comments here and there are rather sufficient to show off your knowledge.

Oh, and one more thing. When a fellow student asks the professor a question, please let the professor answer. Believe
it or not, we have very intelligent people teaching our classes, and they can probably field questions without your help.
After all, that’s what they were hired to do.

Lauren Stutts: It seems to me that quite a few people here don’t have much respect for the halls and
the public areas. I often see Coke spilled carelessly on the hall floors or papers strewn about in the Union.
Sorry to disappoint you, but there is no cleaning fairy; someone has to clean it up, and it shouldn’t be
the staff. If you make a mess, then clean it up. We all learned that lesson as a child—you get
out a toy, then you put it back before you get out another toy, or it’s straight to the...time-out table.
We could all use that kind of logic here. Also, if there has been a mess in the hall or
you find food wrappers left on a table, then just be a good citizen and take a few minutes out
of your day and clean it up. If we all just took the time to think about the repercussions of
our actions on others, then I think Davidson’s halls and public areas would be a lot cleaner. If not, then
perhaps we could banish people to a time-out table in Chambers.

Felicia Browne: It irks me to see the lack of bathroom etiquette some students have. Regrettably, I have seen all
sorts of unthinkable items strewn about the bathroom—items that have not been properly disposed of, or washed after use. Not
only is this uncouth and unsanitary behavior discourteous to one’s hallmates, it is also disrespectful to the Physical Plant staff
who is left to clean up messes that even six-year-olds wouldn’t dare make. All I ask is that these offenders
realize that others are affected by their conduct, and stop subjecting their hallmates to such revolting behavior.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on WALT 1610 AM. This week’s
topic is “Diversity.”

Overrated, from page 5

The boy who befriends ET is too inconsistent and annoying to watch. Thomas seems to express too much emotion or
too little throughout the film. I never found this movie as magical as others did, and I am thus adding
this to my most overrated films list. If you want a better movie with kids and aliens, I recommend either
Flight of the Navigator or Explorers.

Fargo — When I first saw this movie, I expected to be blown away, especially after hearing all the great
reviews and critical acclaim the film was receiving. Needless to say, I was very disappointed. Centering around a murder mystery,
the film, set in Fargo, North Dakota, revolves around Jerry Lundegaard (William H. Macy) and his attempted murder of his
wife with the help of bumbling criminals, played by Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare. These three must fend off the
local female deputy, played by Frances McDormand in her Oscar-winning role. While the film offers some hilarious moments, many as
a result of the inept criminals, and has fine individual performances, the film never works well, always walking that fine
line between comedy and drama, never deciding what it wants to be. If you want a better film about the
imperfections of small-town America, try American Beauty.

Goodfellas — Again, I’m awaiting the hate mail for this one. Unlike so many of my friends, I cannot understand
the popularity behind Martin Scorsese’s gangster “masterpiece.” The film, in the hands of so many accomplished actors, just does not
seem to work. The narrator of this film, Henry Hill, is played by Ray Liotta. This casting, in my opinion,
hurts the film significantly. Liotta seems too much like a pretty boy, someone the mob wouldn’t allow among their ranks.
The highlight of this film is the over-the-top performance of Joe Pesci, whose mouth, temper, and trigger finger are going
to get him into trouble. That performance, along with the acting job of Robert De Niro, one of the best
actors of recent memory, can’t save this subpar gangster movie. For a better choice in gangster movies, I recommend either
Donnie Brasco, starring Al Pacino, based on a true story, The Godfather, or The Godfather Part II.

Abernethy Funds are available to students in the following three categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3) Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. FYI:
Last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,500; the average award was about $2,000.

DEADLINE: November 15 to apply for George L. Abernethy Endowment Funds. Application forms are available in the Office of the
Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 116). Completed application forms are due back in this office before 5:00 p.m. on
Friday, November 15, 2002. The announcement of awards will occur on or before January 15, 2003.
