by Jeremy Trantham

Law school’s out; Waffle House, here I come

Informing people that you attend Davidson College generally elicits one of two responses. Either “Where is that?” or “Ohhh, good school.” Nothing drives home Davidson’s secretly elite status like having that same conversation a few hundred times. If they know of our academic reputation, they follow up with, “What are you majoring in?” When you respond with your major—Political Science—they come in with “Political Science, what’s that good for?”

“So what are you doing after graduation?” is only slightly less annoying than “So how was your summer?” I’m always tempted to answer it with, “My house burned down.” I usually tell people I’m going to law school. The reason is two-fold. First, it sounds impressive, a good conversation starter with female acquaintances. Second, I honestly would like to spend a few more years in college. If you drink five nights a week in college, you’re a lightweight. If you drink five nights a week after graduation, you’re a candidate for the Betty Ford clinic.

Unfortunately, I realized the other day that I don’t want to go to law school at all. Lawyer jokes are only slightly less numerous than “Yo’ mama” jokes. And I think you have to sell your soul to Mephistopheles before you actually pass the bar exam. I still reply to, “What do you want to do with your life?” with “law school,” but my heart’s no longer even remotely in it. This forces me to explore other options for post-graduate employment. Here’s what I’ve come up with so far.

@ Short-Order Cook at the Waffle House: Just knowing the language they speak is worth the meager pay and horrible hours. I’m disappointed that Davidson has a foreign language requirement and doesn’t offer a class in Waffle House-speak.

@ Quality assurance associate for Anheuser-Busch: This job pays you to drink beer. If you need me to explain the appeal of this job, stop reading now.

@ College Football announcer: You get paid to watch college football and talk about it. I do this every Saturday anyway. If somebody actually paid me to talk about college football, I swear I’d go to church every Sunday for the rest of my life.

@ Oscar-Mayer Weiner Mobile Driver: This job lets you travel the country in the coolest ride this side of Compton. You also get to sing the best TV jingle of all time. Throw in free hot dogs and you have one damn fine job.

@ Columnist: The perfect job for boozehounds. Wake up around noon. Fight the hangover for three hours. Spend an hour pulling 700 words out of thin air, and start drinking again around six. Weekends are free, and you can submit your column from anywhere. Like a bar.

@ Vice-President: I’m sure the typically ambitious Davidson student would aim higher, but not me. The VP’s job is basically to sit around in case the President is incapacitated. It’s a figurehead job with little responsibility. Free time and prestige are a great combination. As VP I’d have a luxury box at every major sporting event you can name. Final Four, Super Bowl, Daytona 500, you name it—VP Trantham is there and he’s embarrassing the administration again. I will redefine the term “abuse of power.”

So the next time someone asks, “What are you doing with a Political Science degree?” I’m going to respond, “Trantham for VP in 2016.” I’ll start making buttons tomorrow.

Who would have thought a simple summer reading assignment would be such a big deal? As at Davidson, all incoming students at UNC Chapel Hill must read a book to discuss during orientation. This year the administration selected “Approaching the Qur’an: The Early Revelations” by Michael Sells, a religion professor at Haverford College. This book seems an apt and obvious choice. Since Sept. 11, the sale of books relating to Islam and interest in Islamic studies at American universities has skyrocketed as more Americans feel the need to learn about the world’s second-largest religion.

Of course, some people just refuse to let outside beliefs creep into their backyards. A lawsuit filed by the Family Policy Network on behalf of three UNC students said that making students read a book on Islam violated the separation between church and state. The courts rightfully dismissed the lawsuit, but that hasn’t stopped this situation from becoming a topic of national debate.

To me, the problem is not that American students are reading the Quran, but that students in Islamic nations are not reading the Bible, the Torah, or even the Constitution. The reason America is so strong is because we believe it is not only our right, but also our duty, to challenge our own beliefs by examining contrary views. It is through challenging our ideals that they grow and are refined. Unfortunately, there are still many places in the world where people are not permitted to open their eyes and examine the beliefs of others. The reason why two-thirds of the world’s political prisoners are held in Muslim countries is not because Islam is an evil religion, but because a few evil leaders refuse to let the people understand anything other than what they are told.

This is the reason why people danced in the streets on Sept. 11. This is the reason why the Ku Klux Klan persecutes people. And this is the reason why Jews were killed in the Holocaust. Only harm can come from a lack of understanding of other beliefs and cultures. Until Americans understand more about Islam, and Muslims understand more about us, we will continue a cycle of violence that has become an unfortunate characteristic of religion—from the Crusades to the Inquisition to Sept. 11.

David Crow is a sophomore from New York.City interested in international affairs. It seems like every week military officials offer up another highly detailed plan to invade Iraq. It’s almost a foregone conclusion that eventually, President Bush will get his shot at Saddam Hussein. But the logic behind a potential attack against Iraq rests on a number of flawed assumptions and speaks to a deeper problem with the current administration’s war on terrorism as a whole. The trouble is that Bush and his war hawks are stuck in the “old” notion of waging war, using widespread air bombing and later, ground troop invasion. This may have got the job done during World War II, but Al Qaeda and Hamas are not enemy nations. Rather, they exist in countless terrorist cells spread out in dozens of countries. If we intend to bomb them all into oblivion, that would require invasions of hundreds of major cities in countries that are mostly allies of the U.S.

So how does this tie into the Iraq problem? The war on Iraq would deal a tremendous blow to America’s most valuable weapon against terrorism: the international coalition. Daddy Bush knew its importance and built up strong international support before going ahead with Desert Storm. But in the present, nearly all our European and Middle Eastern allies are opposed to any kind of war on Iraq. If we ever want to bring the many terrorist cells to justice, the U.S. must win the cooperation of the countries in which they operate. Angering Saudi Arabia, the nation from which most of the 9/11 bombers came, by invading Iraq, would be a big step in losing their support. Nothing demonstrates the importance of a coalition more than the recent arrest of members of a terrorist cell in Hamburg by German authorities, a cell believed to have helped organize the attacks on New York and Washington. If the U.S. violates the wishes of Germany and their European allies by attacking Iraq without United Nations approval, the Germans may not be so cooperative in rounding up terrorists in the future. Unfortunately, our allies show no signs of changing their stance, and Bush has accomplished little to change that. Bush’s treatment of Iraq is just a stunt to secure the 2004 election. Bush is eager to escalate the war on terror in order to appease the American public. He likes to portray Saddam Hussein as a huge threat, but until he can provide ample evidence that Hussein actually has weapons of mass destruction, any military action against Iraq would be based solely on speculation. To win the war on terror, the U.S. needs to shift its attention to developing its alliances, not destroying them.

There is a long list of reasons for the United States to attack Iraq with the intention of removing Saddam Hussein: he may soon have nuclear weapons that could kill millions around the world, he poses a threat to Middle East oil supplies, he is a genocidal madman who killed 100,000 of his own people with chemical weapons, and there is evidence that he directly or indirectly aided the Sept. 11 hijackers. However, I feel that there is another compelling reason to attack Iraq. Since Sept. 11, Israel has demonstrated that it may be the one nation that best represents U.S. interests in the Middle East. No other nations, and certainly not our NATO “allies,” have shown the resolve and commitment to fighting terrorism that Israel has. Granted, this is largely due to the strategic position in which Israel currently finds itself. But whoever said “nations do not have friends - they have interests” was a wise man, and right now Israel shares our interests. Israel has the cause and capacity to be our strongest ally in the current war. Its military is undoubtedly the strongest in the Middle East. Its intelligence service, the Mossad, is quite possibly the best in the world. And, most importantly, the people and government of Israel, in stark contrast to some of our other friends around the globe, are overwhelmingly supportive of our current campaign against global terrorism. The man who poses the greatest threat to Israeli security interests is not Yasser Arafat — after all, it is unlikely that his suicide bombers will eventually topple the state of Israel. Rather, Saddam Hussein is quite possibly No. 1 on Israel’s Most Dangerous Man list. He has demonstrated that he would like nothing more than to see Israel eliminated. We know that he has sent money to the families of some young Palestinian suicide bombers who blew themselves up in Tel Aviv pizzerias, and would most likely attempt to destroy Israel if he had the military capability to do so. It is doubtful that Iraq currently possesses missiles capable of hitting targets in the United States, but there is no doubt that Iraq could easily hit Israel with nuclear-capable weapons. Worse still, the size of Israel is such that only a few successful nuclear detonations could effectively destroy the country. The Israeli military has been working to develop a strategic defense wing, but as far as I know it is not yet operational. Israel does have a nuclear capability of its own, with which it would undoubtedly retaliate against such an attack. Millions of Israeli and Iraqi civilians would certainly die in such an exchange. To put it simply, an Israeli-Iraqi nuclear war would be a catastrophic affair for all involved, but in the end, it would be Israel who would “lose.” The results of such a war on U.S. interests abroad, and especially in the Middle East, would be devastating. Without Israeli assistance tactically, strategically, and politically, the war on terror would be substantially set back. In addition, millions of innocent lives, both Israeli and Iraqi, would undoubtedly perish. There are many excellent reasons to attack Iraq. Our ally Israel’s predicament is one of them.