Dance ensemble prepares for Nov. 8, 9 performances
By Emily Drew
News Editor

Next weekend the Davidson Dance Ensemble will present its annual fall concert. African dance, Modern, Ballet, Jazz, and Hip-Hop will
be featured along with other forms of dance. All dances are both choreographed and performed by Davidson students.

“This is an exciting time for the Dance Ensemble,” said Brewton Brownlow ’03, who choreographed one of this year’s productions
and serves as the publicity chair of the ensemble. “All the members are looking forward to displaying a semester’s worth
of hard work.”

The Dance Ensemble was drastically revamped five years ago by a small group of freshmen who were looking for an
outlet to dance at Davidson. From its small beginnings, the group has grown to include around 100 students. The current
presidents are Betsy Pinchak ’04 and Katherine Costa ’03. Jessi Williams ’05 is the treasurer, and Catherine Foster ’05 is
the technical director.

After the success of last year's inaugural show in Duke, officers and dancers have high expectations for this fall’s performance.
Performances are November 8 and 9 at 8 p.m. in Duke Performance Hall. Tickets are $2 and on sale at
the Union Box office.

Senior housing lottery, W-courses being evaluated
By Amanda Pennock
Senior Staff Writer

Martin Court lottery dominated conversation at the Oct. 24 SGA meeting, amid conversation about everything from W-courses to ATC allocations.
The Campus Safety committee discussed the recent rash of car vandalisms, especially in the satellite parking lot. It appears that
the thief (or thieves) is looking only for stereo equipment. Campus Safety has begun to look into purchasing cameras for
the lot, so that they may post signs saying that the lot is monitored. These signs and cameras will hopefully
deter future criminals.

The Education Committee has begun to look into ways to better the school’s policy on W-courses. These mandatory classes for
freshmen are intended to serve as introductory courses for collegiate writing under Davidson’s rigorous standards. The committee is hoping to
create new rules that would restrict the teaching of these courses to more senior members of the faculty, with the
exception of members of the English department. It is hoped that, with this change, these courses would be taught more
thoroughly and with a deeper understanding of what writing is about at Davidson.

SGA voted to allocate funds to both the Jewish Student Union and the Environmental Action Committee. ATC representative Amanda Mildner
explained what purposes the monies would serve, and noted that the Davidsonian returned its allocation to the ATC general fund
as a result of some unexpected income.

The brand-new Committee on External Affairs (COEA) distributed a handout on what its responsibilities and functions would be in the
future. This committee will serve as an unbiased group “whose purpose is to facilitate a response or action by the
SGA regarding an issue or event that has its origin and main sphere of influence outside of Davidson College.” If
a petition form is signed by ten percent of the student body currently residing on campus, COEA will help draft
a resolution that will be presented to SGA for any decision-making to be done regarding the issue.issue. Finally, debate ensued
about the housing lottery for seniors who seek an apartment on Martin Court. For those students who weren’t here last
semester, a ruckus was raised when rising seniors realized that RLO does not depend solely on lottery numbers to assign
Martin Court Housing. The housing organization also takes into account such information as noise violations and Patterson Court affiliations. Many
senators feel that they represent the student body in claiming that this policy is unfair. Susanne Francis ’03, who works
with RLO in the Housing Committee, said that it is basically impossible for RLO to assign housing on Martin Court
through a pure lottery. RLO tries to create a “transitional living” arrangement — one that will simulate living in the
real world, where one does not get to choose who else is living in the same building. For this reason,
RLO purposefully tries not to place an apartment full of people next to several apartments full of their closest friends.
Francis said that RLO is continuing to evaluate its policies and will more clearly publish its housing methods in time
for current juniors to fully understand their options regarding the Martin Court lottery.

Panel, from page 1

While the panelists agreed on the lack of minority representation at Davidson, many had different feelings regarding the school’s honesty
towards incoming minority students. More than one representative claimed that admissions fellows promised more racial and ethnic variety in the
student body than there actually is. One panelist asserted, “I have been lied to.”

“I have been lied to.” - Davidson student

Some, however, conceded that Enrichment could potentially lead to self-induced segregation, due to the fact that participants interact solely with
other minority students for the entire week prior to meeting any other students. Several members of the audience admitted that
people they had met during that week had become some of their closest friends. Others countered this, saying that ethnically
sorted groups would have formed anyway, with or without a pre-college program.

In addition to this controversy, the discussion at the minority discussion broached the topic of Davidson’s Pre-College Enrichment program, formerly
known as Pre-Orientation. The program, which takes place a week before First-Year Orientation, features a series of activities for international
and minority students designed to allow easier adjustment into the Davidson way of life. Members of the panel audience raised
concerns that perhaps the program is unnecessary, while suggesting the possibility that it may be responsible for some of the
cliques on campus. Many panelists defended the program, praising its goal of allowing students from such widely different backgrounds to
become accustomed to the new environment.

Panelists also agreed that throughout campus, students have a desire to increase their understanding of cultures other than their own.
Though they admitted that playing the role of a representative of an entire culture or race can be frustrating at
times, many panelists expressed enthusiasm about teaching others about their backgrounds and promoting understanding and tolerance of all minority ways
of life. The spirit of Diversity Week depends on such a desire to teach and to learn just as much.
“I find that most people here are willing to learn,” said Pinarbasi. “And I don’t have a problem helping them
understand.”
