UA: Have you changed anything about WALT?

F: Yes. If I could change anything about WALT, it would be nice if more people could hear WALT. So,
I guess I would like to see it on FM or become available over the internet.

L: You and me both! So, what is your favorite thing about Davidson?

F: My classes sure are fun.

L: O.k., last question. What’s your least favorite thing about Davidson?

F: I think the student life is culturally boring. People don’t seem to be excited about it.

Frank Chemotti is a DJ for WALT. His show, which focuses on electronic music, airs every Thursday from 9-11 pm.

Joel’s Davidson, NC
101 DEPOT ST. (704) 896-6739 (NEXT TO BB&T)
joelsgrill.com

NOW OPEN TIL 1 AM WED-SAT
DINE-IN TAKEOUT DELIVERY

JOEL'S NOW ACCEPTS CAT CARDS FOR DELIVERIES. PLEASE GET YOUR 6 DIGIT CODE FROM THE RLO IF YOU DON'T HAVE
ONE YET. HAVE YOUR OWN SUSHI OR/AND KARAOKE PARTY AT YOUR PLACE. (INCLUDES SUSHI CHEF, & FREE USE OF SUSHI
BAR DISPLAY CASE OR/AND KARAOKE SYSTEM). CALL JOEL FOR DETAILS.

A column by the Health Advisors

HOOKING UP

Steve: Alcohol, close dancing, intimacy, hook up, nothing happened. Intrigue, introduction, dinner, hook up, connected. So many ways a hook
up can happen. I will try to steer clear from adopting a judgmental stance on such a topic, lest I
plunge back into the pit of blatant hypocrisy. Before coming to Davidson, I criticized hooking up heavily. Gradually throughout my
time here though, in light of an unexpected situation or two, this has changed. On the one hand, it can
be adventurous, exciting, enthralling, and sensual. But there are two sides to every coin. With every physical interaction, there is
an emotional one. And this is part of the problem — the intensity of the emotional connection in a hook
up (of any level) is not always mutual. Sometimes, when the emotional connection felt by each ‘hooker-upper’ (should be a
word) isn’t the same, complications can arise, awkwardness can develop, friendships shattered, and feelings hurt. When it isn’t, there can
be this awkwardness and pain. However, when the level of emotional connection is mutual, ah... something truly special just might
flourish. I guess that the intentions behind the interaction are something to be considered and something that both hooker-uppers need
to clarify. This way, one can understand how the interaction will end and hopefully awkwardness and hurt will be avoided.
I see no need to encourage hooking up, just as I see no need to condemn those who do it.
Although I have done it before, on the whole, I try to avoid it due to the potential complications that
can arise. In the end though, it’s each to his own. But be aware that you should take responsibility for
your actions and be prepared to face the consequences — sometimes unwanted, sometimes truly desired.

Jenn Greene: Forgive me for taking the graphic approach, but I believe that “hooking up” is a way to become
more comfortable with oneself, both physically and psychologically. I’m not advocating prancing around half-naked and inebriated, throwing yourself at the
closest person who will get it on with you. Instead, I am saying that intimate physical contact can help you
learn what you like, what you don’t like, and how to communicate your needs and desires to the person you
are with. Communication about private matters (be they of bliss or of boundaries) is bettered only with practice, as in
a sport. I hate to use sports analogies, but this one fits well: playing things out in your head is
one thing, but involving other people is an entirely different story. I realize that hooking up in an atmosphere where
news spreads quickly can be detrimental to a reputation. As such, I don’t think that random hookups are such a
great idea. (In my opinion, hookups are not always one-night stands, nor are they necessarily random. Notice that nowhere thus
far have I mentioned the word “random.”) Exploration with friends, on the other hand, is a different story. Again, let
me clarify, or else I might get myself in a lot of trouble. I am not advocating “friends withbenefits.” I
am supporting the idea of acting on a mutual interest that stems from initial attractions with someone. There is a
potential danger that comes with intimacy if there is no detachment. The fine line here comes between not caring and
realizing that the physical interaction that is taking place is not love, but a momentary, mutual indulgence in self-exploration. That
can be very satisfying. Some last words: use protection if it’s needed, shame is never becoming, mistakes are made so
we can learn from them, and regretting the past doesn’t change it. And gentlemen, if something does happen that was
unexpected, put your arm around her the next morning. You'd be surprised how much hurt it heals.

Felicia Browne: I think hooking up is fine as long as the people involved are aware of the consequences. Personally,
I refuse to let a guy get physically close to me unless I know and trust him, and most of
the time hooking up precludes this process. But if others feel comfortable “hooking up” and take the necessary precautions (physical
and emotional), then by all means, go ahead and enjoy! In regards to what hooking up means, I do not
have a definite answer; some people equate it with a peck on the lips, while others associate it with sexual
intercourse. The phrase is so vague that maybe we should just remove “hooking up” from our vocabulary, and instead say
what we really mean.

Lauren Stutts: “Hooking up?” Everyone seems to have a different definition for it, but I think most people use it
as a word with a negative connotation. If two people “hooked up,” then that sounds like they were together temporarily
and had a casual relationship without any strong feelings involved. I’m not saying hooking up is necessarily a bad thing;
some people need a break from a serious relationship. However, constantly hooking up with different people is obviously not healthy,
physically or psychologically.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on WALT 1610 AM. This week's
topic is “Coming Out.”

Chamber, from page 5

more than four decades. Along with well-done performances from kids and adults alike, the directing of Chris Columbus, the special
effects, and other technical aspects complete this incredible adaptation of the J.K. Rowling classic. Columbus’s direction allows both the incredible
sets and the child stars to be the focal points of the film, with one never overshadowing the other. As
for the special effects, they create a sense of wonder and awe in the characters and the audience as the
effects work to make the extraordinary magical world seem almost possible.

The high and low points of the special effects both occur very early on in the film. When I first
heard that Dobby the House Elf was going to be completely digital, I immediately thought the worst—another Jar Jar Binks.
I’m pleased to say that my concerns were for nothing. Dobby and the human characters work seamlessly in conversation and
interaction, which is a word of praise for both the human actors and the special effects coordinators. However, Ron and
Harry’s drive to school in the bewitched flying car, while humorous, looked poorly done in comparison to the rest of
the effects. At times during the sequence, I thought it looked like a toy car being maneuvered in front of
a painted background or model. This marks a surprising low point in a film full of otherwise incredible special effects,
creating monsters, heroes, and everything in between.

So is Chamber of Secrets worth seeing? The fact that my two friends, who shall remain nameless, had the desire
to see the film twice within a 24-hour period, might be the best evidence of a resounding yes. Combining incredible
sets, special effects, acting, humor, action, and adventure, this well-done film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
will continue to drive the Harry Potter phenomenon until the release of Book 5—Harry Potter and the Order of the
Phoenix—sometime next year. For all you fans of the series (and I know you are numerous on campus, even if
you’re not willing to admit it), be happy knowing that this film is everything you could have hoped for. For
those who are not yet fans, go and become acquainted with the people and places that make up this magical
world.
