9 Tue

Davinsonian

Foster: Vision and purpose

Davidson is truly blessed to have three honorable and hard-working individuals vying for the office of SGA president — this
campus would be in good hands under any of them. Still, John Foster emerges as the inimitably fine choice for
the position, and I write in support of his candidacy.

John Foster, I offer, has a combination of attributes that uniquely suits him to take up the challenge of the
office: clarity of vision and a purity of purpose. John’s devotion to Davidson is sincere; his purpose is profound. His
platform contains an assortment of genuine, well-thought efforts for tapping this student body’s potential. As he pondered a run, John
began to sit and listen to anyone who would give him the time, picking their brains about Davidson’s strengths and
its weaknesses — I have no doubt that his tenure as president would be marked by the same warmth, authenticity,
and inclusiveness.

With a position as prestigious as SGA President, there is a tremendous danger that the job becomes something that one
“is,” rather than something he or she “does.” Some students aspire to the job either as a final feather in
their student government cap, or perhaps as a perceived stepping stone for post-Davidson politics. John harbors neither such delusion. He
seeks the office simply because he has a vision for Davidson and for its student government. That brand of selfless
service is refreshing and inspiring.

As student body president, John would bring a revitalizing passion to the SGA—opening its doors to all students and using
the leverage of his office to infuse energy into all components of student life on this campus. I wish him
the best of luck.

Mike Anderson ‘02

Patterson: A natural leader

With the SGA elections upon us, I am writing in support of Gray Patterson for SGA President. Our community needs
leaders who pair their words and their actions. We have had this type of leader in Joey Harris, and we
will also have it in Gray. When Gray said he would protect freshman parking from limitations, he did so. When
he says that he’s committed to making our community a better place, you can believe him.

Over the past two years, I have gotten to know Gray as a member of Davidson’s Mock Trial team, as
well as through his work to build a better Davidson community for students, staff, and faculty. Gray is a natural
leader who combines a heartfelt commitment to his work, both academic and extracurricular, with an easy-going ability to follow through
on his promises. We will hear a great many slogans in the next few days. Gray Patterson can back his
up with a history of commitment to, and achievement in, SGA. What he says is what he does. That’s the
kind of leader I trust, and I encourage my fellow students to review Gray’s record of service to our community.
He envisions a better place and works to make it a reality. Those are the actions of an SGA President.

Seth Davis ’02

Epps: Dedication, diligence

Usually when I think about SGA here at Davidson, I wonder about the urgency of the issues that candidates discuss.
As an outsider to the Davidson political scene, it is often easy to believe that SGA doesn’t get anything important
done. But more and more I have come to realize that this attitude is quite misinformed. After all, look at
the Vamonos Van, which runs from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. on Thursday through Saturday nights. Students without access to
transportation (but mostly those who have been drinking) use the Vamonos Van for free and can go between Exits 36
and 25 on I-77. Here is an issue (drunk driving) that couldn’t be more urgent, and the student government at
Davidson has found a way to help deal with it.

This increase in popularity is all thanks to the hard work of Kevin Epps. Kevin has kept the Vamonos Van
running, even when there were few volunteer drivers. He also trains new volunteers who are interested in driving the van.
Kevin maintains a schedule of drivers for the hours that the Vamonos Van runs, and when no volunteers can be
found, he drives the van himself, even when it means a 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. shift. Without his commitment
and sacrifice, the Vamonos Van would be an idea rather than a working reality.

As an SGA outsider, I am probably not well informed about the issues that representatives discuss. But as a voter,
I am impressed when candidates work hard for a relevant and urgent cause, like the Vamonos Van. Especially when that
means giving up their free time on a weekend night. That’s why I plan to vote for Kevin Epps in
the upcoming elections.

Dan Morris ‘03

EMMANUEL AWOS-ABANYIE Special Contributor

The issue of AIDS has been given a lot of attention by the media. Peruse the newspaper and you are
forced to conclude that AIDS is only in Africa. The newspapers continue to focus on Africa with little attention given
to the AIDS epidemic in other parts of the world. It is only Africa, the so-called “dark continent,” that needs
a “savior.” It is therefore not surprising that the West, in its misguided attempt at bailing Africa out of its
many problems, portrays the continent as a land of poverty and turmoil. Newspapers are always filled with negative stories about
Africa as if nothing good ever happens there. I am not suggesting that Africa has no problems. Of course, every
country or continent has its own issues. But focusing only on the negative aspects of the continent without giving credit
to its numerousAchievements leave much to be desired. When this dreadful disease was discovered, it was said that AIDS originated
in Africa and, more specifically, the Congo. It was declared by some without any scientific research that the people of
the Congo ate monkeys that carried the HIV virus. Africa became the center of it all. African leaders, lacking the
willpower to fight back, did nothing. What could they have done? I presume for fear of losing the foreign aid
they received from the industrialized nations, they could not stand up to defend their rights. For after all, “you cannot
bite the hand that feeds you,” goes a Ghanaian adage. For that matter, Africa became and is still perceived to
be the “world bank” of HIV/AIDS. Americans, Europeans, and others in the so-called industrialized countries continue to see Africa as
the motherland of HIV/AIDS. Stop, talk, and think of AIDS. Isn’t the first impression that some Westerners have about Africa
HIV/AIDS? I found it very difficult to believe my ears when a very good American friend of mine told me
that his dad does not want him to travel to Africa for fear of catching AIDS as if it is
a common cold. Contrary to his father’s beliefs, AIDS is not contagious. How sad that this myth is still being
passed on from generation to generation in these times of technological advancement. The question then arises of how to solve
the AIDS epidemic without attributing the cause to Africa. AIDS is here and has come to stay, just like cancer.
The only solution to this epidemic is to find ways of preventing its spread. It has become very clear that
AIDS is not limited to Africa. Therefore, it must take the international community to solve the problem. Unless and until
the issue of AIDS is treated as a dangerous and dreadful human ailment by all nations, it will be difficult
to make a serious issue of it. Africa’s destiny lies in the hands of its new generation. African governments must
initiate collective solutions to the problem of AIDS. This should be a high priority. The lives of Africans are being
wasted, and if no serious and drastic actions are taken, there will be no “next generation.” We do not need
anyone to tell us where AIDS originated. It has come to stay and needs to be put under control. “They”
will not do it for Africa. We as Africans have to do it ourselves. The proud children of our motherland
must arise, confront the problems, and face the challenges with resilience to prove to the world that Africa is a
great continent with a rich and diverse culture, not the storehouse of AIDS.

Emmanuel Amos-Abanyie ‘04 is a native of Ghana.

Who are you, Saint Valentine?

It was three days before Valentine’s Day. A friend of mine from back home needed my advice on what to
buy his girlfriend. He seemed a little confused because, unlike most girls who daydream about that moment of untying the
white satin ribbon and pulling open the blue box, he in fact had no idea what the blue box signified.
I, of course, had images of him pulling into a CVS or Walgreen’s and actually asking a cashier to help
him find the blue box—almost as if it were some sort of mystery that only girls knew about. “Send her
white roses with pink tips and wrap it in white paper,” I told him. “But all girls don’t like roses,”
he retorted as if I were requesting that he send them to me. Truthfully, I don’t know an appropriate Valentine’s
Day gift. One year, back in boarding school, Mom sent me a “Grow Your Own Boyfriend” doll. The girls and
I waited while the little red capsule expanded in the lukewarm water. Another time when my brother was in boarding
school, he sent me a Limoges box—it was shaped like a postcard and the painted inscription on the inside read,
“missing you.” As a child, I would spend hours crafting the perfect Valentine’s Day cards. Mom and I would cover
the kitchen table with red paper and glitter, and we would spend hours crafting the perfect cards. Why, as a
child, is Valentine’s Day so important? Oodles of candies and cards come flowing onto those metal-bottomed desks and you pretend
that everyone is so loving and happy, when in fact two days earlier, Sally or Mary Sue had kicked you
out of their “Girls Only” club. And then, two days later, they’re passing out friendship bracelets? In childhood, it is
so easy to forgive and forget. Something as simple as a friendship bracelet or a heart-shaped cookie can completely erase
the previous stigma. Even though the kitchen table is back in Texas and Mom isn’t cutting out the paper, I
still hand-make my Valentine’s Day cards. I find an insane pleasure in coming up with fitting inscriptions and then making
little pop-up hearts on the inside. Even though Mom is always skiing on Valentine’s Day, I send her flowers because
I want to let her know that I am thinking about her. Maybe Valentine’s Day isn’t all about the pristine
Tiffany’s blue boxes and flowers wrapped in white paper. Maybe it isn’t about having a boyfriend or girlfriend. Suppose that
Valentine’s Day started when some character from way back decided they’d like to designate a day to tell all of
their friends and family that they love them. But I must admit, nothing is better than receiving a beautiful bouquet
of flowers from a “secret admirer” and knowing that my mother was thinking of me.
