The Davison
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Offensively, the weekend home stand should be considered a success for the young Davidson ball club. Scoring an average of nearly 12 runs per game, the Wildcats provided the kind of run support that would please most any pitcher. It was on the defensive side of the ball, however, that the Davidson nine fell apart. Combining for 17 errors in just four games, the Davidson defense allowed their opponents to score far too many unearned runs.

“We need to get better with the routine stuff,” said head coach Dick Cooke. “Great plays will come, we just need to focus on playing sound, fundamental baseball right now.”

Friday

Facing Delaware State University on Friday, the Wildcats jumped out to an early 2-0 lead as senior co-captain James Marino doubled home fellow senior Steven Aldrich and junior DJ Dailey. The Hornets reduced the margin to a single run in the top of the fifth, but senior Tim Frend extended the ’Cats lead in the bottom of the inning as he jacked a two-run shot over the left field fence for his first home run of the season. Senior co-captain Billy Ryan added another run, scoring off a one-out single by senior Trae Fletcher, and Davidson took a 5-1 lead into the sixth.

After the Hornets were shut down in the top half of the sixth, Dailey drove in a run and scored another and the Wildcats increased their lead to 6. In the seventh frame, however, the DSU offense exploded as three Hornets crossed the plate to cut the Wildcat lead to just four. Following a scoreless eighth, the Hornets stung again in the ninth, recording four runs on just two hits to take an 8-7 lead into the bottom of the inning.

Freshman Sam Navarro crushed a one-out double to left-center for the Wildcats, then advanced to third on a wild pitch. Fletcher then lofted a shallow fly ball into center, which looked to be deep enough to score Navarro, but the DSU center fielder made a textbook one-hop throw to the catcher to nail Navarro at home and end the game.

“We literally gave this one away,” Cooke said following the loss.

Saturday

Hoping to bounce back the following day, the Wildcats found themselves facing perennial Big East powerhouse Boston College, a team coached by Davidson alumnus Peter Hughes ’90. The Eagles grabbed an early lead, as leadoff hitter Matt Lederhos took junior Andy Demko’s first offering of the game deep over the fence in left-center. BC added another run later in the inning—the first of six unearned runs on the afternoon—to extend their lead to two. Davidson countered in the bottom half when senior Tim Frend knocked in freshman Eli Benefield and Marino drove in Dailey to make it a 2-2 game after one.

The Wildcats jumped ahead in the third when Dailey scored off a wild pitch, but the advantage was short-lived as BC scored two more in the top of the third to grab a 4-3 lead. The score went back and forth during the middle innings and BC entered the seventh with a 9-7 advantage.

Baseball goes 2-3 in four-day stand at Wildcat Park

From there on out the game belonged to the Eagles, as they tacked on seven more runs to walk away with a 16-10 victory.

Sunday

On Sunday, the Wildcats went for round two against both schools, squaring off against DSU in the morning and recording their first victory of the season. 

Photo by Lindsay Ferguson
Baseman Eli Benefield tags out a runner.Pitching battle, Davidson tallied three runs in the bottom of the fifth to take the 4-3 win and build some much-needed confidence after three straight losses. Freshman Andy Carter got the start, pitching 5 solid innings as he struck out six Hornets and allowed just four hits to earn his first collegiate victory. The Hornets nearly tied it up in the sixth when a couple of Wildcat errors positioned a DSU runner at third with one out, but junior Steven Choate successfully pitched out of the jam. Benefield led the ’Cats offensively as he notched an RBI and scored two runs, and Frend came on in the ninth to pick up his first save of the season.

The rematch with Boston College was everything but a pitching duel as the teams combined for 30 runs, 30 hits, and 11 total errors. Once again, the Eagles came out fast and held a 7-2 lead entering the bottom of the fourth. The Wildcats evened the score in the sixth, as RBIs from Marino and Dailey made it an 8-8 ball game, and both teams tacked up five more runs in the eighth to send the game into extra innings knotted at 13. In the top half of the inning, BC capitalized on a throwing error, scoring four runs and then shut down Davidson to complete the weekend sweep.

“It was a good game to watch from an offensive perspective, but there were a ton of errors on both sides,” noted Cooke. “I was pleased with the way we battled, and since everyone is on a pitch count we were able to see a lot of our pitchers go to work.” Added Marino, “We are hitting the ball well and our pitching is okay. We just need to be a bit more solid defensively—you don’t win games when you make five errors.”

Monday

On Monday, facing Georgetown University, the Davidson offense was once again running on all cylinders, as the ’Cats generated 13 runs off 12 hits and cruised to a 13-9 win. Trailing 5-0 in the second, the Wildcats loaded the bases but could only muster a single run when Brett Pfeiffer hit a sacrifice fly that scored Marino. The ’Cats chalked up another run in the third when Marino doubled in Dailey to make it a 5-2 ballgame. Davidson grabbed its first lead in the bottom of the fourth, scoring four runs on four hits and one error, only to have the Hoyas tie it back up two innings later. The Wildcats pulled ahead in the bottom half of the sixth and never looked back, taking a 13-7 lead into the ninth before allowing two more Hoyas to cross the plate. Freshman Sam Navarro and Ryan led the offense with three hits each, while junior Erskine Wells picked up the win and fellow junior Jordan Case recorded the save.

The Wildcats travel to High Point this Wednesday to take on the Panthers, but will return to the friendly confines of Wildcat Park this weekend as two New York schools, Niagara and Albany, pay a visit for another exciting weekend home-stand.

Let’s Go ’Cats!

LAKE NORMAN
18705 STATESVILLE RD.
CORNELIUS, NC
PHONE - (704) 892-6590
FAX - (704) 892-6596
Hours: 7:30-5:30 M-F, 8:00-12:00 Sat.

Exit 30 Davidson
Exit 28 Cornelius
US 21 Statesville Road
NC 115

With A Valid Davidson College ID Receive A 5% Discount

FULL LINE OF GENERAL REPAIR WORK ON FOREIGN & AMERICAN AUTOS
Quality Repair By People Who Care!!!