Staff Editorial

To start, let’s get one thing clear: we’re stressed out. Like everyone else on this campus, we have ridiculous amounts of work and we’re not happy about it. But we’re a little concerned about the acceptable way of dealing with stress around here. We all complain a lot about the workload and, clearly, that’s not going to change. It may not help us accomplish anything, but commiserating with each other does seem to make us feel better. And now, three studio art students have produced a whole project devoted to stress. We’re glad they have. The workload is everyone’s favorite topic, after all, and we commend them for sparking constructive discussion about it. The artists have invited the campus community to share their own feelings about stress by writing or drawing on a mural.

Last time we checked, tuition went towards qualified professors and top-notch facilities. Automatic good grades aren't part of the deal. What bothers us are the attitudes towards work that we’re seeing. One writer is angry because he or she is paying $30,000 a year for a bad GPA. Last time we checked, tuition went towards qualified professors and top-notch facilities. Automatic good grades aren’t part of the deal. To suggest that because we pay high tuition we are entitled to high grades is the worst form of elitism.

When it comes down to it, why are we so bitter about the work Davidson expects from us? Yes, we spend an inordinate amount of time in the library, and December and May are particularly painful months. But every single one of us chose this school because of, or in spite of, its academic challenges. We knew what we were getting into, and we expect the Davidson reputation to facilitate successful careers. In order to be deserving of that reputation, we have to help Davidson hold up its end of the bargain. If we want everyone to think we’re better prepared than the competition, then we have to do more work than the competition. Granted, that probably won’t be much consolation when you’re fighting people for a library carrel next week. But you’ll be thanking your “stress” soon enough.

The Davidsonian

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Colin Eagan
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Emily Drew
Caroline Hauser

Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Chris Schmader

Sports Editors
Richard Connolly
Mike Giglio

Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore
Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa

Web Editor
Anders Langworthy

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

Take Yourself Off the Bad List

Take your no smoking signs somewhere else. Despite RLO’s claims, there is still a demand for smoking residence halls, and the outlawing of lawful smoking within one’s room would amount to a patronizing, unnecessary, paternalistic policy. To respond to RLO’s assertions, as stated in the Nov. 20 issue of the paper: RLO’s freshman forms do not reflect the true tendencies and wishes of students. Occasional smokers have absolutely no incentive to list themselves as smokers. RLO made same...mistaken assumptions regarding single-sex housing — they determined that there was no demand based solely on responses to forms which students filled out the summer before they even came to Davidson.

b. If RLO will be installing sprinkler systems in all halls, is smoking still a serious safety hazard? Either way, I would like to know how many fires have been started in rooms by cigarettes in the last ten years.

c. Generally, RLO policies allow smoking only in private rooms and not in public places. I doubt carpet replacements like the $3000 one in West are a regular, if even rare, occurrence. Finally, strict, paternalistic anti-smoking policies do nothing to attract students to the campus. Giving students freedom to do what they want in their rooms, however, reflects an administration that respects the students’ abilities to make responsible decisions for themselves.

Roland E. Foss ‘05

From Phi Beta Sigma

On behalf of the Southeastern Region of Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. and the ladies of our sister organization Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc., I would like to extend a statement of gratitude to the entire Davidson College community, its National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Expansion Committee, and The Davidsonian staff for the opportunity to speak about our brotherhood.

The article published on Nov. 19 provided an interesting history lesson on Davidson’s NPHC colonization from Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.’s attempt in the early 1990s up to Phi Beta Sigma’s presentation on offering additional leadership, diversity, and academic success not only for its members but for the men and women of Davidson College as a whole, if allowed the opportunity to colonize on the campus.

Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. was founded on the campus of Howard University on Jan. 9, 1914, by three honorable black men. Our motto “Culture for Service & Service for Humanity” sums up our commitment to service as a way of life to benefit all humanity. Our three major international programs (Education, Bigger & Better Business, & Social Action) are based on the concept that education, the development of minority enterprise, thrift, and the uplifting of social conditions are the key to dispelling negative stereotypes of persons of color in a way to unite the community through inclusion over exclusionary practices.

If there are any men who were unable to attend the meeting on Nov. 19 and would like to learn more about Phi Beta Sigma, please feel free to contact me at Charles@southeasternpbs1914.org or through iotadeltasigma@aol.com. The Patterson Court Office will also have information on how to contact myself and/or my organization.

Godspeed to the Patterson Court Council, the National Pan-Hellenic Council Selection Committee, and the interested men of Davidson College on your search for an organization that will not fail you in benefiting your community!

Brother Charles A. Amerson
Southeastern Region Director of Public Relations and Technology
Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Incorporated

We welcome letters to the editors. We edit for content, brevity, and grammar. Please e-mail contributions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu

AND NOW ADOSR’ FILOSA ..... WITH LAURA FILOSA