Football Puts League Hopes on the Line Saturday vs. MSU
By Mike Giglio, Sports Editor

One year ago, the Morehead State football team shocked Davidson by coming back from a 17-0 halftime deficit to win the game 28-17. As they demonstrated in this year’s home opener against Jacksonville, the Wildcats aren’t quick to forget or forgive such defeats. They now have their second chance to exact revenge for an ugly loss, as the Eagles visit the 'Cats this homecoming weekend.

“We have had this game circled on our schedule since the moment it came out this year,” says center Jon Davis. “That game last year left a bitter taste in our mouth.” Defensive lineman Ryan Tennis agrees, “As a player there’s nothing worse than having someone come back on you like that. Most of their offensive unit is back, so the defense has something to prove.”

Even more important to the team than avenging last year’s loss are the tremendous implications that the game will have on Pioneer League standings. The Wildcats are 4-1 this year, and the win over Jacksonville marks the only league game they’ve played. After this weekend, Davidson will have one remaining league contest. Winning every league game guarantees that the 'Cats will play the winner of the Northern Division for the Pioneer League Championship.

“Remaining undefeated in the league provides us with a chance to continue to control our own destiny, and that is a big goal for us this season,” quarterback Paul Nichols states. Strong safety Graham Elmore agrees, “This is a huge game for us. Our goal from the beginning of the season has been to win our division and have the opportunity to host the championship game. A win on Saturday will put us that much closer to our goal.”

All of this only adds to the excitement of homecoming weekend, which promises to fill the stands with students, fans, and alumni. “This is our chance to show what we can do in front of people who built this program,” Davis says. “It’s just an added incentive to go out and win this game.”

The team has made great strides since their opening game loss to VMI, and the players feel good about their chances on Saturday. “The success of the team has been outstanding up until this point of the season,” says Nichols. “Throughout the year we have grown both collectively and individually.” Davis is equally excited, “The defense is playing great and the offense is starting to click on all cylinders and put points on the board. We have a lot of momentum going into this game and we need to keep it up.”

Tennis sums it up perfectly, “I think if we can carry the momentum from the last three games into this week of practice, we’ll put ourselves in a good position to win. With the homecoming crowd and the importance of this game, I know we’ll be through the roof come game time.”

Davidson (2-1, 1-0) vs. Morehead State (4-1, 0-0)

The History: MSU leads the all-time series 2-1, including a 28-17 home win last year. In that game, the Wildcats led 17-0 at halftime but gave up four second-half touchdowns, including a 21-yard pass with 5:10 remaining that gave MSU the lead for good. The Wildcats’ offense managed only 62 yards of offense during the second-half collapse. One of the most memorable games in Davidson’s undefeated 2000 season came at home against Morehead State, a 38-31 double-overtime win on Oct. 7. Paul Nichols found fellow sophomore Mike Chase for a 23-yard touchdown pass, which became the winning score when the defense stopped MSU on its next possession. Both those players will start in Saturday’s game. The Eagles won the first game between the two schools 40-0 in 1999.

The Teams: Davidson and MSU are contenders for the PFL South Division title, and Saturday’s winner will have the inside track to the conference championship game on Nov. 23. QB David Caudill (6-2, 205 pounds) leads a potent passing attack that will test the Wildcats’ secondary on Saturday. He averages 228 passing yards per game, with six TDs.passes on the year. What to Expect: You might call this the game of the year for both teams. Each plays only four PFL games, making every meeting critical in the conference race. Don’t expect a repeat of last week’s blowout. Morehead State is a veteran team with several playmakers, especially on offense. The Wildcats’ secondary will face its biggest test of the season and must contain Morehead State’s passing attack to keep the game close. Whichever team wins should make sure its stadium is available on Nov. 23. The first-place teams in the North and South divisions will play for the PFL Championship on that date.

THE DAVIDSONIAN - WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2002

Photo by Matt White
The men’s soccer team beat South Carolina 1-0 on Sunday.

Kings of the Carolinas: Men’s soccer tops No. 2 Gamecocks
By GEOFF FEHLING
Staff Writer

For the second time this season, Davidson’s men’s soccer team upset the second-ranked team in the nation, this time stunning South Carolina 1-0 on Sunday. With the win, the Wildcats improve to 5-2-1, while the previously undefeated Gamecocks fall to 7-1-1. Senior Joel Sadler tallied the lone goal of the match at the 58:29 mark, assisted by sophomore Ben Kittinger. Kittinger made a run down the far side of the field and crossed the ball to Sadler, who ripped a shot just past the massive reach of USC’s 6’6” netminder. Sadler’s goal forced USC to really step up play, and the Wildcats had to buckle down to withstand the USC attack. One of the more threatening drives of the game came at the 38:56 mark when USC’s Ryan Deter hit the outside of the post with a shot, as the Gamecocks outshot Davidson 5-3 in the first half.

Freshman midfielder David Sartorio credited the victory to pure hustle. “The reason that we won the game was that we flat out outworked them,” Sartorio explained. “Plus we got a key back save by Will Carroll.” Sartorio was referring to a spectacular play late in the second half by freshman defender Will Carroll to prevent a goal. Another part of the stellar defense was senior goalkeeper Soren Johnson, who recorded his fourth shutout of the season. Davidson head coach Matt Spear agreed that it was the tough Wildcat defense and hustle that won the game. “Defensively, shutting down a team of South Carolina’s caliber is always tough,” Spear said. “I thought John Latting, David Peoples, and Johnson played especially well today. Justin Porter provided a spark today full of grit. He got us over the humps in the tough times during the match.”

A crowd of 1,416 wild fans was there to witness this upset and the encouragement they showed was tremendous. Whether it was through the avid support of the FC Wildcat fans, or the Davidson townspeople supporting the college, everyone was actively cheering for a Davidson win. “There was something in the air—the fans really got into it,” commented Spear, “and they sensed it could be a special game. Any time Davidson gets a chance to be a giant killer, it brings out the spirit in all of us—students, alumni, faculty, staff—to a higher and more harnessed aim.”

Coach Spear was very excited about the win, but also very cautious that his team doesn’t settle for beating just two ranked opponents. “As we know,” he said, “one game doesn’t make a season. This will, however, have us more motivated to challenge Duke on Tuesday.”

Men’s soccer returns home on October 19th against Georgia Southern. The opening touch against this SoCon contender is set for 1 p.m.

The Davidsonian Player of the Week
Soren Johnson ‘03
Men’s Soccer
Hometown: Blowing Rock, NC
Major: Neuroscience
Johnson recorded five saves to lead Davidson over #2 South Carolina on Sunday.

Friday
Women’s Soccer vs. Virginia Tech 4:00 p.m.
Men’s Tennis Davidson- Jim Causey Invitational (Through Saturday) TBA

Saturday
Field Hockey vs. Temple 12:00 p.m.
Football vs. Morehead State (Homecoming) 1:00 p.m.
Volleyball at The Citadel 3:00 p.m.
Men’s Soccer at Appalachian State 7:30 p.m.

Sunday
Volleyball at College of Charleston 2:00 p.m.

Tuesday
Volleyball vs. Charlotte 7:00 p.m.