Paul Nichols, shown here passing against VMI, passed for two touchdowns against the Wasps.

Football routs Wasps for 14th straight home victory
By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

The Davidson football team is streaking again. Saturday’s 44-7 romp over Emory & Henry extended the Wildcats’ home win streak
to 14 games—the second longest in all of Division I-AA. It comes one season after the team completed a nation-best
18-game winning streak. And this one couldn’t have come in more convincing fashion.

John Leverett returned the opening kick 96 yards for a touchdown just 17 seconds into the game, and the Davidson
offense scored touchdowns on its first four possessions en route to its highest point total in nine years. The Wasps
were overmatched at virtually every position, managing only 149 yards of total offense. Nearly every player on the Davidson roster
saw action, including four quarterbacks—starter Paul Nichols, back-up Damion White, and reserves Tom Cook and Andrew Pickens.

Leverett finished the day with 77 yards on 12 carries. The opening kickoff return was the second time Leverett has
gone the distance in his career, setting a school record last year with a 100-yard return against Randolph-Macon. Nichols threw
for 124 yards and two touchdowns on 7-of-13 passing, moving into fourth place in all-time yardage with 4,506 total yards.
Their numbers were not greater because second- and third-stringers played the entire second half. Eight different Wildcats caught passes, led
by freshman Chalin’ Aswell with four receptions for 45 yards. Barrett Johnson finished the game with 88 yards on three
catches.

---

Grand Opening
Chinese Restaurant
Dine In / Carry Out
Call Ahead For Fast Carry Out Service
Next to Food Lion I-77 Exit 28
20121 North Main Street, Cornelius, NC 28031
BUSINESS HOURS:
Sun. - Thurs.: 11:00am - 10:00pm
Fri. - Sat.: 11:00am - 11:00pm
Tel.: 704-896-6576
704-896-0338

---

By Mike Giglio
Sports Editor

Grey Wicker takes a lateral from Matt Haist and jukes a defender, sending him face down in the dirt. Wicker
looks up and sees two more blue-shirted players coming at him. Using the last of his energy, he bursts between
them, just barely getting by. He cuts left, scampers into the end zone, then dives and touches the ball down
to the ground for a try.

The Davidson rugby team has scored first on rival UNC Chapel Hill, who they played this weekend during a tournament
at NC State. They would add another try (which is worth five points) by fly half Haist, as well as
a conversion kick (worth two points) by Dan Pierce, the team’s fullback, to win the game, 12-0. The strong defense
of the Wildcats, led by hooker Wes “Chainsaw” Chaney, prevented the Tar Heels from scoring despite multiple attempts throughout the
game.

“It can be intimidating that we play against some big schools like UNC and NC State,” 8-man A.C. Christopherson remarks,
“but we are well-coached and have a lot of experienced guys.” Davidson Rugby more than holds its own against such
teams, which also include Wake Forest, ECU, South Carolina, and Duke, putting together a 28-5-1 record over the past 2
years. The team also won the Christmas Sevens tournament in Richmond, Virginia, last year and held their own against the
best teams in the south this summer at a Fourth of July tournament in Wilmington, NC.

The ‘Cats are 2-0 this season, with a victory in their first game against UNC Charlotte. In the Charlotte game,
second row Patrick Baetjer, Haist, Wicker, and Pierce each had tries. Pierce accounted for seven additional points, as he was
2-4 on conversion kicks and 1-1 on drop kicks (worth three points). Strong defense again produced a shutout, as the
‘Cats held UNC Charlotte scoreless and dominated their attack throughout the game. The success of the team this season, as
it has been in past years,is due in large part to coaching and senior leadership. The coach, Paul Kinney, has
been coaching the team for several years now and is described by the players as a devoted coach and friend.
His presence alone motivates the ruggers to work hard at practice and go “balls out” in games, as the team
motto goes. Seniors such as Pierce, the team’s captain, Haist, Christopherson, and fly half Dan “Vermont” Morris keep the pace
at practice and set the tone for games. That group is complemented by a contingent of hard-working underclassmen, including players
such as juniors Wicker and Chaney, who are also extremely committed to the Davidson rugby tradition.

The freshmen, according to Christopherson, are just beginning to develop into solid players. “We have a talented bunch of freshmen
that have learned the game pretty quickly,” he says, “but we are always looking for more to join the club.”

Despite the increasing popularity of rugby across the globe and even across the United States, many people are still unsure
of what the sport is all about. A quick glance at a rugby game will observe crunching hits, sweaty scrums,
and tired, battered players. But, as Wicker has proved to opposing teams countless times, the sport consists of a lot
more than that. “Rugby is a sport of possession in which every player on the field essentially becomes the leader
of the team when he has the ball,” he explains. “The game has constant motion and is a true test
of endurance, strength, finesse, and wit.”

Beyond the physical aspect of the game is the deep sense of camaraderie that exists between the ruggers. Strong bonds
develop throughout games and practices where players constantly sacrifice their time and their bodies for the team. Perhaps the most
intriguing aspect of the sport is the class and poise with which the players conduct themselves. A mutual respect for
all who participate, teammate or opponent, characterizes the game. After even the most aggressive games, players from both sides make
sure to congratulate one another, and they often get together after games. As the old rugby adage goes, some sports
are gentleman’s sports played by hoodlums, while rugby is a hoodlum’s sport played by gentlemen.

For more information contact Dan Pierce (dapierce@davidson.edu).

Women’s cross country places fifth in a very strong field
By Brooke Kittinger
Staff Writer

The never-ending rolling hills, pouring rain, and slippery mud at the Ballantyne Resort in Charlotte on Friday did not daunt
the Davidson women’s cross country team. The Wildcats attacked the challenging 5K course in both the College Women’s Open and
the B-team races. Ballantyne Resort, a first-time host for the Great American Cross-Country Festival that is usually held at Charlotte’s
McAlpine Park, proved to be a demanding test for all teams, with the course set in a large golf course
and boasting many tough hills. As a result, pacing was difficult and even the times of the frontrunners were slower
than usual.

In the College Open race, the team placed fifth overall in an extremely competitive field of twenty-two teams. Second in
Southern Conference competition only to Appalachian State, the ‘Cats outran UNC-Asheville, UNC-Greensboro, Western Carolina, and Wofford College. Freshman Allie Martin
and sophomore Sally Stanhope were again the forerunners for the ‘Cats in the race, with their times of 20:47 and
20:53 good enough for 16th and 18th place finishes. Captain Laura Puckett ran an impressive race for the team at
21:06, placing her third overall for the team. Sophomores Sarah Baxter and Emily Einstein brought home the rest of the
score for the Wildcats at 21:36 and 21:37. Freshman Hilary Leister and senior captain Liz Gross also posted remarkable finishes
with times of 21:40 and 22:24.

In the College B race, senior captain Brooke Kittinger and freshman Carissa Skrivanek performed well with times of 23:15 and
23:46. After this weekend’s impressive accomplishments, the team is now working hard to prepare for its next meet at Eastern
Carolina University on October 12.
