VOLUME 93, NUMBER 2

A Face Lift: A new Richardson Plaza entrance will replace the back of Love Auditorium; a computer illustration shows Chambers’
anticipated new look. Story, page 2.

Third social forum features presentations, discussion

Alcohol, transportation and faculty committees present suggestions

By Linny BALDWIN
News Editor

Despite low turnout, the third social forum of 2001-2002 might be considered the most productive of the series. On Wednesday,
April 17, students, faculty, and staff gathered together to present the findings and suggestions of six small committees. Suggestions ranged
from improved off-campus transportation, to new alcohol education policies, to improved communication between various campus social organizations.

Many of the newest ideas came from the Transportation committee. According to College President Bobby Vagt, members of the transportation
committee have already started talks with the Ragin’ Uptown bus about a possible relationship with the campus. “We might have
a special Saturday night activity for Davidson students,” Vagt explained. Also on the table: more regular transportation between Davidson and
places like Concord Mills, Wal-Mart, and Charlotte. “We need to make people more familiar with public transport. Few students know
that you can get picked up at the VAC and go almost anywhere in Cornelius and Huntersville,” commented Vagt.

see Forum, page 4

Israeli-Palestinian conflict sparks campus protest

Students wear homemade t-shirts to protest US role in Middle East

By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff Writer

A movement has appeared on campus over the past two weeks featuring student protests of the recent Israeli invasions of
the occupied territories in the Middle East. Students including Sean Brooks ’04, Kevin James ’03, and Alex Massingale ’04 staged
the first form of protest on Friday, April 12 by wearing homemade t-shirts with statements on them and posting flyers
throughout Chambers to voice their opinions of the conflict.

The idea for the protest began slowly and grew gradually into a highly visible movement. Students had been discussing the
issue for weeks before the idea was conceived through e-mails exchanged between friends who shared similar viewpoints on this crucial
political issue. The group finally decided they needed to do something and met on the top floor of the Union
at midnight on Thursday, April 11 to make the shirts. Kevin James had purchased white t-shirts and permanent markers earlier
in the day to decorate.

That evening over 50 people designed individual shirts to wear on Friday as a form of silent protest. The shirts
featured different phrases as those participating were allowed to write whatever they wanted. Common phrases included “Stop the Killing Now,”
while others were written in Hebrew and some had quotes from Kofi Annan. Massengale wore a shirt with the phrase
“Sharon is A Criminal” on the front and “4 Billion U.S. Aid + Israeli Defense Force = Murder” on the
back.

No formal organization or leadership was involved in the protest. It was merely a “spontaneous grassroots movement,” claimed Massengale. “The
protest emerged from a growing e-mail list of concerned students on campus,” said Brooks. After the first protest on Friday,
the group has worked with Amnesty International to set up tables to distribute information and collect money for a relief
organization. The group is currently discussing whether or not to become a formal group on campus.

Asked what exactly they were protesting, Brooks stated, “We were and are still protesting the murderous Israeli invasion of the
occupied territories. We object to the use of violence in the regime as a means to bring about peace and
stability. We were shockedand outraged by the reports from the occupied territories, which described the killing of hundreds of innocent
Palestinians. Our group condemns all forms of violence, both by the IDF and Palestinian suicide bombers. We are not a
pro-Palestinian or anti-Israeli group.” Furthermore, he claimed, “We were and are protesting against the United States government which we feel
has ignored the humanitarian crisis in the Occupied Territories and has failed to rein in our ‘friend,’ Israel.

“Many of us feel that the United States, because of the money that they give to Israel each year ($4
billion), is complicit in all of the actions of the Israeli government and their military, including the possible ‘war crimes’
that the United Nations is beginning to investigate.” Massengale added that another important goal of the movement was to “shed
light and create dialogue on the current situation.” The political science department, he claimed, “should be running forums where different
perspectives can be presented and people can see

T-Shirts 9 page 3

Self-Selection policies debated at Monday PCC meeting
Committee recommends methods to even eating house size over 10 years
By Timothy Cook
Managing Editor

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) voted on Monday to accept a proposal designed to restructure the Self-Selection process into eating
houses. The proposal presented consisted primarily of a ten-year plan that redistributes females gradually into the four all-women and one
co-ed house so that by the tenth year each house will have roughly the same amount of members.

The team assigned to the project consisted of Social Chair Boyd Stephenson (03-SPE), Ian Willoughby (03-CoHo), Patrick McShane (04-SAE), and
Erin Hoffman (03-Turner). The group put together a presentation based on two goals: 1) eliminating “rush” and 2) making sure
that “no girl is crying on self-selection morning.” The first goal revolves around the fact that eating houses are not
allowed to rush for members like fraternities do. Instead, women choose eating houses in which they want to join in
order of most desired to least in late January of each year.

The team added another scheduled “rush” event to the list of authorized activities and clarified what those activities may be—registered
parties, dinners, non-alcoholic events, and semi-formals. Males are also given an opportunity to self-select into either a fraternity as a
social member or join directly into CoHo, the only co-ed eating house.

The second part of the plan employed the services of Dr. Laurie Heyer of the Math Department. She and one
of her classes worked on an algorithm that lowered the number of women receiving their lowest choice house and that
also narrows the gap between large houses and small houses over a ten-year span. As of last Fall, that gap
is over 100 members, with Rusk house having over 150 members and Turner house having only 50. The new system
would allot the largest number of first-year students to the smallest houses, and vice-versa with the larger houses.

After the proposal was made and questions were answered, PCC President Daniel Hanks (03-PDT) moved to vote on whether to
accept it. The proposal passed with little opposition. After the first proposal passed, a second

see Court 9 page 2

Photo by College Communications
Thomas Ward ‘04 in Love’s Labour’s Lost. Story on page 5.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News Pages 1-4
Chambers Building will get a facelift. Page 2.

Arts and Living Pages 5-6
Shakespeare reviewed. Page 5.

Perspectives Pages 7-8
Kegs and Earth Day. Page 8.

Sports Pages 9-12
Baseball achieves 500 wins. Page 12.
