Team picked to finish 7th in SoCon despite strong spring showing

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

For the Men’s 2002 Cross-Country team, one thing is clear: a non-wavering obsession with reaching the much-coveted top three spots in the Southern Conference meet this year. As for understanding anything else about the team, good luck. A quiet observer would say two things about these guys: 1) They are the closest-knit bunch in recent history and, 2) No one has any idea what they are talking about most of the time.

Before practice and while stretching, the runners yak off inside jokes like they are the vernacular, with references to Snoopy, Germany, and Atlas coming up most often, and as for team slogans, don’t even try to understand them. But since the team returned to school early to undergo its annual preseason trip to the mountains, there has been no need to translate its one goal: Top 3 in the SoCon. And if early workouts can say anything about the season, which opens Sept. 6 at the Covered Bridge Open in Boone, NC, this team is in good shape to accomplish the feat.

“Overall, the team has been looking very impressive in practice and this will help us move one step closer to finishing in the top three in the SoCon—something that only three previous Davidson teams can claim,” said Coach Gary Andrew, who is now entering his 16th season as Head Coach for the Wildcats.

In the annual five and a half mile incline run up Flat Top Mountain near Moses Cone Park, the top 10 finishers ran faster than last year's best, and junior runner Chris Schmader, who was the first to the top last year as well, finished nearly two and a half minutes quicker this year. In other workouts as well, the team has shown the ability to stay in packs and not thread out over the course of a hard run.

“Overall, our team is in the best shape since my freshman year. Nearly everyone’s at the same fitness level, and that makes for great results during workouts. No one’s afraid to push the pace, and it just makes everyone that much stronger,” noted senior co-captain Jimmy Swansbrough.

The team this year will be led by senior co-captains Andy Schoewe and Swansbrough, fellow senior and top returning runner Brad “Zeus” Becken, and juniors Colby Broadwater, Ben Gaspar, Schmader, and Greg Scott. When the coaches’ poll was released this past week, ranking Davidson seventh in the SoCon, the team prepared to prove everyone wrong again, for Davidson was ranked similarly last year as well and ended up placing 4th in the Conference meet, its best finish in 37 years.

“The polls don’t mean anything right now. As a Davidson team, we have the most depth we have ever had, putting us easily within reach of our goal,” explains Schoewe.

The season fast approaches, and the Men’s Cross-Country team is ready to start off sprinting. Understand them if you can, cheer them on if you will, but know one thing for sure: Top three in conference is the only thing that matters.

Photo by Matt Kevin Bell ‘05, Brad Becken ‘03 and Chris Schmader ‘04 compete in last year’s Irwin Belk Invitational. All three return to lead the cross country team into a new season.

Pieter Mul
A soccer player prepares to attack the Charlotte defense during Saturday’s game.3-2 loss to the 49ers. 

Hobart’s goalkeeping not enough in two opening losses

By Justin NEILL
Staff Writer

Despite solid efforts and brilliant goaltending by sophomore Sarah Hobart in its first two games, the Davidson women’s soccer team fell to 0-2 over the weekend, losing to non-conference opponents Charlotte and South Carolina.

On Friday night, the Wildcats put forth a valiant effort in forcing Charlotte to overtime, but eventually 49er’s senior Jennie Leeder scored a golden goal in the ninth minute of overtime to give Charlotte a 3-2 victory on a wet evening at Richardson Stadium. Davidson notched its first goal of the season in the 32nd minute when junior Sarah Huber scored for a 1-0 lead. Charlotte countered quickly, however, when junior Jill Hayes managed to score on Hobart two minutes later. Charlotte came out on the attack in the second half, and in the 60th minute freshman Courtney Crandell scored on a breakaway to put the 49ers up 2-1.

A new defensive system and three new defensive starters have been responsible for a difficult transition period for the ‘Cats. “We need to continue to organize and learn our new system. Hopefully we won’t have to put as much of a burden on our goaltending as we did this weekend. But Sarah’s performance was one of the best I’ve ever seen by a goaltender here,” noted head coach Kevin Hundley.

Despite their inexperience, the Wildcats weren’t about to sit back and watch the game slip away. As the clock wound down in the 81st minute, junior Deneille Erikson assisted junior Leigh Anne Hoskins to tie the score at 2-2. Hobart made two more splendid saves in the final minutes to force overtime, and another critical stop in the extra frame kept the Wildcats alive before Leeder eventually won the game for the 49ers.

Against South Carolina on Sunday, the Wildcats were again kept on their heels defensively, giving up seven shots and recording just one, but still only trailed 1-0 heading into halftime. Davidson continued to attack and had several good chances, but none of them turned into goals. Eventually South Carolina put the game away with goals by Camille Tomey and Morgan McIntyre in the final 15 minutes. The Wildcats managed only 2 shots in the game, while the Gamecocks produced 14.

Hundley noted, “We need to coordinate better with our forward line to create more scoring chances, but we did a good job converting the chances we had.” But the Wildcats have no reason to be down about their performance this weekend. “I think playing two strong out-of-conference opponents showed us early on what things we can do well and what we need to work on...I was certainly impressed with how hard we played. Our players prepared themselves to play and were both physically and mentally invested in the game,” added Hundley.

And as the Southern Conference schedule rolls on, the Wildcats will continue to become more comfortable in their roles. The next game for the Lady Wildcats is this Saturday, September 7, as they open Southern Conference play against The Citadel at home.

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
easternfederal.com

Entertaining North Mecklenburg and Lake Norman Area Since 1991

Movies @ Birkdale
Movies @ The Lake
easternfederal.com

In Birkdale Village
I-77 Exit 25 ~ 704-895-7997
easternfederal.com
I-77 Exit 28 ~ 704-892-3841

All Stadium Seating
Experience Birkdale's 54 Ft. Screens
DTS, Dolby Digital & Surround EX Sound
Movie Mania card