By Derek Low
Arts and Living Editor

Y Tu Mama También (And Your Mama Too) is a towering achievement. With its humor and road trip plot, it reminds me of Almost Famous. I love both films for their happy-go-lucky attitudes, and I admire both for their broad appeal. Neither are films that have to find a certain audience; these are movies anyone can love, or at least enjoy... very much. But I like Y Tu Mama También more. Despite my love for Almost Famous, my admiration for the film never goes beyond affection: is Almost Famous anything more than a great entertainment? The film leaves us with nothing to contemplate. I think the opening comments of Roger Ebert’s four-star review are telling of the movie’s limitations: “Oh, what a lovely film. I was almost hugging myself while I watched it.” Much hugging, yes, but not much thought.

Y Tu Mama goes further: rather than just supplementing its clever moments with ideas about life, death, and politics, the film seamlessly weaves together all of its virtues. What appears to be a simple and silly road movie involving two teenage boys and an older woman emerges as one of my favorite movies. Gael Garcia Bernal and Diego Luna star as Julio and Tenoch, two Mexico City slackers. Both are well off, especially Tenoch, whose father is a high-ranking government official. They spend their time swimming at the country club, crashing cars, delaying college, doing drugs, and masturbating. Standard movie-rich-kid stuff.

At a wedding, the two friends drink one too many rum and cokes, and they stumble upon Luisa (Maribel Verdu), a strikingly beautiful woman old enough to remember when Tenoch cried over a lost Thundercat. Julio immediately becomes infatuated and invites her to join them on a road trip to La Boca del Cielo (Heaven’s Mouth), an isolated beach still undiscovered by hotel chains. She politely declines, and Julio and Tenoch head off for some more booze.

Hung over and lounging in his father’s mansion, Tenoch receives a phone call: it is Luisa, and she wants to go to the beach. Tenoch rings his friend, and the two excitedly begin to plan their trip. There are a few problems, however. First, they have no car. Second, La Boca del Cielo exists only in Julio’s alcohol- and testosterone-marinated mind. Their solution’s simple. Julio borrows his sister’s beat-up station wagon, and as for the beach, they do what any of us would do... they just drive and drive and drive.

What happens during their journey and how and where it ends are things no review should reveal in detail. Y Tu Mama También is the stuff of “low comedy” — we’re tempted to find similarities with American Pie — and high drama. In retrospect, it’s as emotionally moving a film as it is a funny one. Director Alfonso Cuarón’s film succeeds on every level. He gets the most extraordinary performances from his cast, especially from Verdu as Luisa. She’s not just a Mrs. Robinson figure, not just a sexual being that tempts Julio and Tenoch; she’s as complex, layered, and real as any character in any movie. And Emmanuel Lubezki’s camera takes a beautiful, “This Land is Your Land, This Land is My Land” approach, capturing Mexico’s gulf coast waters, mountainous forests, and vast deserts.

When I left the theater, I focused on the film not as a technical triumph, though it is, but as a meditation on life. At its heart, Y Tu Mama También is about death and desperation, and it is sad not because someone is killed, or because someone deserves to die, but because life, perhaps, just isn’t enough.

Y Tu Mama También is now playing at Concord Mills.

Choose your own apathy: upon which path will you tread?
By BEN TERESA AND STERLING ROZEAR
Special Contributors

Hey, Davidson! We are back: after a long trip through the hell that is rejection, we got a second chance! We’ll give you an easy out this time. If you hate this article, go to Paragraph 1. If you have taste and a sense of humor, go to Paragraph 2.

1. The End:
2. The Pixies tribute concert at the Tremont last Saturday was good fun for all. The Aqualads, The Goldenrods/Les Dirt Clods, and the Vulvacanoes delivered powerful renditions of Pixies’ material. While we were only present for these bands, we feel safe assuming everyone else sucked. If you are a fan of the Pixies, go to Paragraph 3. If you are not a fan...of the Eagles, go to Paragraph 4.

3. In other news, today our taskbar temperature meter reads 61 degrees Fahrenheit. However, weather.com says that there is no weather for the 28036 zip code. Hey guys, we don’t know about you, but it feels like there’s weather out there, somewhere. We know it. We’ll die before admitting that our shoes are untied. If you believe in weather, go to Paragraph 5. If you believe in life after love, go to Paragraph 6.

4. Ben feels all fuzzy inside. Sterling likes to watch things grow. Joseph’s Technicolor Dreamcoat reminds us all how little children can change... nay, save the world. If you get this article, go to Paragraph 10. If you like to put things underneath your pillow to see if there’s more than just a Tooth Fairy, go to Paragraph 7.

5. Eddie from Ohio believes in things, too. Like playing at Davidson on Friday, April 26 at 9:00 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall (DFPH). And Christmas. Thank you donors, for all the lovely carpentry in the DFPH. If you think that Rah, the sun god of ancient Egypt, had nice abs, go to Paragraph 8. If you’re wondering why Rah’s worshiper, King Ramses, had “like 10,000 babies” and has a condom named after him, go to Paragraph 10.

6. As any good Davidson student knows, this weekend is Spring Frolics. Yay: We think that while there’s love and fun in the air, gremlins will eat our houses and turn Ben’s car into a piece of gremlin war-machinery. Don’t let this happen to us all... Be careful... only you can prevent forest fires. If you continue to support the gremlin occupation of the Raleigh-Durham airport, go to Paragraph 9. If you changed your mind about the Eagles, go to Paragraph 3.

7. It’s true... Once Sterling put a dog under his pillow, but all he got in the morning was fleas. Go to Paragraph 10.

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.D
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE
THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS - JACK ARMSTRONG, EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
9817-2288
19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUCA
Continuing our policy of offering Davidson students, faculty and employees a 20% discount on eyewear and special prices on eye exams.
F.N.A.O. - MARY SALDOPEK, A.B.O.

8. We looked into the sky and saw some crazy, satellite junk floating around our precious earth. Even a marble-sized piece of junk could inflict serious damage on an orbiting satellite when it strikes it at 17,000 miles per hour! That’s about 10 times the speed of a rifle bullet. Since we are definitely going to need some expensive lasers that orbit our earth and make our lives really, really good and juicy and succulent, like steaks, it goes as follows: we sure as hell need to clean up our Earth orbit, at least until we get the lasers up there, protecting the first lasers from the space debris and Saddam Hussein. At least that’s what little Wolf Blitzer (a.k.a. Beard Man) says to Ben. In his sleep. If you sleep and are visited by people with faces, go to Paragraph 10.

9. “Wow, Ben... What’s that right there on your face?”
“It’s my mouth.”
“Nope, it’s glory, Ben, straight outta Compton, and on your face.”

10. In inconclusive conclusion: Ben likes linen, Sterling likes most fabrics, and Bugs Bunny doesn’t wear clothes. The point is, G.I. Joe was the real American hero, and knowing is half the battle. But so is wearing pants. In that respect, we’re all real American heroes (except for girls who wear skirts and stuff, but I like those too). So don’t let anyone tell you that you’re not American enough, or try to blame you for bad things... because really, we all wear pants, and even Bugs Bunny doesn’t, but I like him. Besides, Dubya.

Forms available:
Davidson Town Day 5K
Saturday, May 4, 2002
9:00 a.m. start
Be a part of the 6th annual Davidson Town Day 5K road race! Race begins and finishes at the Davidson Town Green. All proceeds benefit the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center! This 3.1 mile race is a certified course with split times at .5, 1 and 2 mile markers. Water stations at miles 1 & 2. Questions? Call / e-mail Dr. Susan Roberts, Race Director: #2458 / suroberts@davidson.edu
Union Information Desk
Baker Sports Complex Information Desk
329-C Chambers
Entries may be returned: 329-C Chambers before May 1
You may also mail entries by April 30.
Race Day registration as well.