__WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2002__

Dorm Review: Housing options for Lottery Night

cluster for the pod singles.

The senior apartments require a separate application process. For more information on all of the dorms, visit RLO’s webpage at http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/residencelife/facilities.html.

AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

Two major changes will be taking place for upperclassman residence halls next year. Watts will be changed to a co-ed, freshman, sub-free dorm, and Little will be completely refurbished over the summer to become an upper-class, co-ed dorm. Although other halls will not be redone, many students are currently weighing the pros and cons of each dorm in anticipation of lottery night.

3rd and 4th Belk According to Annette Welty '04, the rooms are cozy and the halls are fairly quiet, but there’s not a “whole lot of community” because the floors consist of sophomores, juniors, and seniors. There are lounges on each floor, but there are no laundry machines or kitchens in the building.

Sentelle & Cannon Every floor of Sentelle is an upperclassman hall, while Cannon does have freshman halls. The dorms are close to the Union, Chambers, and the library, but are further from the eating houses and sophomore apartments. Amanda Andrews ’04 of 1st Cannon claimed that there are “no setbacks” to living in Cannon since it was redone this past summer. Cannon has a kitchen, and Sentelle is equipped with laundry machines.

Little Little will be a co-ed, upperclassman dorm next year. The bathrooms will be renovated, which will likely be a bonus for future residents.

“Down the Hill” — Akers, Knox, & Irwin Often called the sophomore apartments, these buildings have “tiny rooms” and “no sinks” according to Sarah Baxley ’04. There is only one washing machine for the three buildings and the relatively long walk up the hill spurs complaint. However, residents enjoy proximity to parking and Patterson Court, and although these dorms are close to weekend parties the dorms are “actually not that loud,” according to Baxley.

Duke Located next to the Union, Duke is prime realty for weekday life. The rooms are relatively spacious, and some consist of two connected rooms. Sarah Hatfield ’03 admitted that her hall’s bathroom situation was “not great” since thirteen girls shared only one shower on their co-ed hall. Hatfield was unsure whether this problem would remain next year.

West West is the newest dorm on campus, and is comprised of mostly juniors. “It’s fun having lots of friends in one place,” said Jessica Mering ’03. “It’s clean and nothing’s broken or yucky.” Mering also explained that the rooms are relatively spacious, and that even the suites have single rooms. Sharing a bathroom with only three other people is another plus. Other West perks include the elevator, the laundry room, and the kitchen. Students opting for West, however, cannot

WALT, from page 1

tions of censoring any material.

“You will not find a single member of the Media Board who wants to reign in student creativity or freedom of expression unless they cross the line and violate community standards of decency,” she said. “Everyone on the Board is very sensitive to censorship. The respect for the need for freedom of expression is very healthy.”

Njie and Carvalho will be allowed to attend the next meeting to discuss the new rules.

The handful of students who spoke up at the campus-wide WALT forum on Feb. 20 supported “The Black Man and the Mexican” and said that people need to loosen up and take the show for what it is: a joke. Some accused the Media Board of unfairly censoring the show.

Halpin said the station plans to advertise a master schedule of shows in an upcoming issue of The Davidsonian, and may distribute flyers in student dorms.

“We got some suggestions for how to improve our programs and music,” she said. “Even the negative [comments] put us on the right track.”

LAKE NORMAN

18705 STATESVILLE RD.

broken or yucky.” Mering also explained that the rooms are relatively spacious, and that even the suites have single rooms. Sharing a bathroom with only three other people is another plus. Other West perks include the elevator, the laundry room, and the kitchen. Students opting for West, however, cannot

RLO Lottery Timeline

February 18

Hamm at dohamm.

February 18

February 28

March 13 7:00 pm - 900 Room

March 19 Off-campus permission applications

March 20 Phase I results posted

March 26

Phase II applications due at Noon

tions

March 27 Phase II results posted

Lottery numbers available online at: http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/residencelife/lottery/index.html (Refer to Lottery Handbook at this website for details about the process.) If Lottery number shows “##H#” instead of a number, email Donna

Patterson Court Apartment applications distributed to presidents at PCC Meeting

Deadline for: Special Housing Applications for medical/physical limitations Applications for one-year International Student Hosts. Students will hear results by March 15th NOTE: Prior to March 19th the following assignments will be made: Student Staff (Resident Advisors and Hall Counselors) Special Housing for medical/physical limitations Hosts for one-year International students

Mandatory Meeting for all Students applying for Off-Campus Permission

Phase I applications due at Noon: Seniors only 5-person apartments applications

4-person apartments (Senior groups processed first); Remaining 4-person & 5-person apartments assigned to “mixed groups” of juniors and seniors; Patterson Court apartment applications; Off campus applications

April 3 Phase III — Single Room Lottery Night (location: West Hall Conference Room)

April 9 Phase IV - Lottery Night (location: West Hall Conference Room)

Receive A 5% Discount With A

I-77

Exit 30 Davidson

Baker Sports Complex

NC 115

Cornelius

Exit 28

DUNLOP

Valid Davidson College ID Offer applies to faculty, staff and students!

FULL LINE OF GENERAL REPAIR WORK ON FOREIGN & AMERICAN AUTOS

Quality Repair By People Who Care!!!