ready for SoCon meet
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The thick, black clouds, torrential rain, and flooding roads did not bode well for the men’s cross-country team at the
NC Intercollegiate Race at ECU over fall break weekend. Luckily, that was the night before. The Wildcats raced to a
strong second-place finish among seven NCAA Division I schools, losing only to dominating High Point. Aside from a portion of
the course being underwater, creating a slightly shorter course, everything was in surprisingly good condition. There was no repeat of
the sloppy Great American course that punished this same Davidson squad three weeks ago, and the team subsequently put out
its best performance of the season.

Senior Brad Becken, who was named SoCon runner of the week for the second time this season, finished in 25:32,
barely edging his junior teammate Chris Schmader, who crossed the line in 25:37. Of the 145 finishers, Becken took 26th
and Schmader 31st. Senior co-captain Jimmy Swansbrough (25:50), junior Greg Scott (26:02), and freshman Jonathan Baker (26:02) also scored for
the ‘Cats, whose top five all raced to season-best times, putting them back on pace to compete with the best
in the SoCon. Junior Colby Broadwater and freshman Austin Mercadante rounded out the top seven.

As for the team’s performance, the second-place finish surprised the ‘Cats, whose trophy was picked up by a Davidson spectator
because the team was not present at the awards ceremony. “The guys were ready to race. It was our best
team effort and one of our best in recent years,” Coach Gary Andrew commented. “When our top five guys stay
close like they did today, and our top guy is near the front, we're going to do well.”

The Wildcats know, however, that this race simply puts them back into contention to compete for a top-three spot in
the Conference. There is still much to be worked on before now and the mid-November meet. “The way we raced
today, we clearly have the potential to equal or better our fourth-place performance at the SoCon last year, but it’s
no given,” Schmader said. “We’ve got to keep training well and be ready to have a gutsy race come SoCon.”

The Winthrop 6k this past weekend was not nearly as uplifting. Swansbrough led the team with an 11th place finish
in 18:51, with Becken only two seconds behind. Schmader, Mercadante, senior co-captain Andrew Schoewe, Baker, and Scott rounded out the
top seven that all finished within 29 seconds of each other. Even though the Davidson top five all finished in
the top fifteen, Furman University placed their top four and Radford their top three in front of Swansbrough, leaving Furman
in first with 42 points, Radford 2nd with 58, and Davidson in a disappointing 3rd with 60.

“Although we only ran mediocre today, we did do a good job of running as a team,” said Schoewe, who
had his best race of the season. “To finish top three in SoCon, though, we’ll need to move our entire
team closer to the front of the race, and with the upcoming taper, we should be able to accomplish that
feat.”

With only a week and a half between now and the conference meet, the Davidson team is buckling down for
a fast finish to the season. Most of the blood and sweat is behind them, and the final question of
whether, when the time comes, this team can run well in the clutch remains.

---

Careers in...
Senior Experience Calendar October/November 2002:

“Careers in...” Series: (Sponsored by Career Services Office)
Careers in Communications: Journalist, Reporter, TV News Anchor, Editor, Advertising, Public Relations
Wednesday, November 6, 7 PM, Alvarez 302
Careers in Consulting
Wednesday, November 13, 7 PM, 900 Room

Upcoming events:
“Careers in...” Series continues into the fall semester
Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue throughout the academic year
Fall Convocation: October 26, 10:30 AM, Duke Family Performance Hall

The Senior Class Gift has reached 79% pledged + paid participation! If you have not made your gift yet (participation
is what counts—any amount is welcome), please contact Shannon Bishop or Leroy Butler. Alternatively, you can log on to https://www.davidson.edu/givingTo
make an online donation, if the Class of 2003 reaches 75% PAID participation, President and Mrs. Vagt will donate $12,003
on behalf of the Senior Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Don’t miss your opportunity to support Davidson and show
your class pride.

By Justin Neill
Staff Writer

Since losing its first two games to powerhouses Charlotte and South Carolina, the women’s soccer team has gone unbeaten in
Richardson Stadium (3-0-1). That streak will be severely tested Wednesday night at 7:00, when conference-leading Furman comes to town. The
Paladins have a 7-0-0 record in the conference, but more imposing is the fact that they have scored 26 goals
in those seven games while allowing only two. The Wildcats, on the other hand, with a 4-1-1 record in the
conference, have proven that they are well worth being considered and will hardly be an easy win.

To earn a win, however, they will have to pick up their scoring, which has become a slightly alarming trend
over the past two weeks. At Elon on October 9th, despite winning the shots on goal battle and allowing the
Phoenix only two shots on goal in 110 minutes of action, Elon’s second shot was all that was necessary as
Jessica Mills scored a heartbreaking goal with 1.3 seconds left in the final overtime. Elon goaltender Lindsi Troxler made nine
saves to keep the Wildcats at bay.

While the rest of Davidson was on fall break, the ‘Cats headed south for a Southern Conference match-up against Georgia
Southern. (They were scheduled to play College of Charleston on October 12, but the match was postponed to November 3
due to rain.) In this game, the Wildcats managed only three shots on goal, but they were able to stay
close until the 60th minute when Georgia Southern’s Genevieve Ward scored off of a corner kick. Although Davidson was outplayed
for most of the game, Sarah Hobart made six saves to keep the Wildcats alive. The game stayed close until
Jackie Kinsey scored with 38 seconds remaining to give the Eagles a 2-0 victory.

Returning home on Thursday against non-conference foe High Point helped the Wildcats’ scoring problems to some degree. In the eighteenth
minute, freshman Brittany Eddy scored her first collegiate goal on a loose ball to take a 1-0 lead. But the
Panthers retaliated in the 29th minute on a goal by Wendy Williams. The game was evenly played, with the Panthers
getting an 8-6 edge in shots on goal. A goal by senior co-captain Tara Maloney in the 71st minute proved
to be the difference in a 2-1 triumph. The win improved the Wildcats’ record to 6-7-1.

In the five games that the Wildcats have remaining in the regular season, three are at home (Wednesday against Furman,
Sunday against Wofford, and Nov. 2 against UNC-Wilmington). There are two interesting plots to watch. The most significant is the
Wildcats’ quest to win the conference title. To have any hope, they must win Wednesday night against Furman. If they
do prevail, games against Wofford, UNC-Greensboro, and College of Charleston will certainly make the ‘Cats work to go the rest
of the way undefeated. Another more statistical quest is Heather Maloney’s campaign to cap off a fine career at Davidson
with her name atop the career goal-scorers list. She currently has 34 goals, which puts her only five behind the
record. Whether or not she attains the record, she is concluding a spectacular career at Davidson.

Also worth noting is the fact that the Wildcats will more than likely finish with a winning record in the
Southern Conference for the fifth consecutive year. For this accomplishment, coach Kevin Hundley and his team are certainly to be
congratulated, and Wednesday they have an opportunity to prove their legitimacy as a strong team once again.

SANDWICHES | To go available 704-205-8007

AB-SOLUTELY PILATES STUDIO NOW OPEN IN CORNELIUS next to the Lake Norman Y at 28023 N. Main Street. Private and
semi-private sessions offered with a discount for all Davidson students and faculty! Call 704-779-1014 for additional information or to schedule
your first session.
