My Big Fat Greek Wedding plot familiar, predictable

The romance doesn’t feel genuine and the comedy falls flat in this fall’s surprise hit

By Matthew Bandyk
Staff Writer

My Big Fat Greek Wedding received little attention when it was first released in select theaters this April. However, the film has been experiencing a strange rebirth this month, as it has placed itself firmly in the top three at the box office over the past few weeks. The reason for the sudden interest in this completely unremarkable movie is hard to explain, as it has more in common with the average bad sitcom that you would watch on a Thursday night when nothing else is on than with something you’d expect to see on the big screen.

The plot concerns the somewhat frumpy Toula Portokalas (Nia Vardalos), the black sheep in possibly the most Greek family outside of Greece. Her father Gus (Michael Constantine) is a huge booster of Greek culture; his favorite game is to determine how any word at all can be traced back to Greek origins, and he’s also one of the only memorable characters in the movie. As far as her parents are concerned, Toula’s only purpose is to get married and make more Greeks. But Toula feels (just as every heroine in the romantic-comedy formula that this film follows to the letter must feel) unsatisfied. Then along comes the charming and sophisticated high school teacher Ian Miller (John Corbett) who expectedly sweeps Toula off her feet. The only problem is that he’s very non-Greek, which is a big problem in the Portokalas family.

Will true love triumph over adversity in the form of bickering between the rebellious daughter and orthodox parents? Let’s all take a wild guess. This kind of movie has been done so many times before that the script essentially writes itself after about 20 minutes in. Vardalos, a graduate of Chicago’s famous Second City comedy troupe, wrote the script, adapted from her stage performance. Maybe it was better in the theatre because most of My Big Fat Greek Wedding’s laughs feel forced or rely too much on eccentricities of Greek culture. The movie fails as a romance as well: Never for a second does it make the relationship between Toula and Ian seem genuine. He says that he loves her because she’s “interesting and fun” but the film never shows any sign of those traits in her character. Director Joel Zwick has a long list of TV sitcoms in his resume (including Mork & Mindy and Bosom Buddies), which shows in his completely pedestrian work here.

My Big Fat Greek Wedding really isn’t all that terrible. It has a few actually funny moments (such as the grandmother who can’t seem to realize that the Greek-Turkish War has ended), and those who have had experience with Greek-American culture may find something to identify with. But the film does nothing to rise above the clichéd romantic comedy mold, and for that its success can only be explained by the stagnation that usually occurs in theatres in the weeks following the summer movie rush.

Body and Soul: The Health Advisors

ALCOHOL

Steve Clugston: Ah yes!!! The sweet blend of dazzling lights and blurred social skills on a night of drunken debauchery... nothing beats it, that is until you wake up in another room and you can feel your heart beating in the right side of your head while your dinner from the night before patiently sits in your throat, ready to jet out. Alcohol is a nation-wide ‘college toy’ and personally I think it’s fine if people drink, even if they are underage! However, the only reason why alcohol and drinking is a college issue is because the extreme to which it is practiced isn’t exactly what one would call safe. Beer funnels that bypass the cheap (not to mention bad) alcohol from your taste buds to your belly, Jell-O shots, Everclear punch with a spicy bouquet of what you’d think is gasoline and many more. How does it taste though? And were you able to savor the moment? I’m not going to deny that I have gotten extremely drunk, because that would be lying, and I’m not going to judge anyone that does get extremely drunk, because that would just make me a hypocrite. I enjoy drinking, but getting drunk rarely does me any good. By all means party hard, but party safe. If you plan to get drunk a week in advance, chances are that you are going to push your limits in attempting to ensure that you do. If you get drunk, let it be mild and spontaneous! Happy drinking!

Jenn Greene: My view of alcohol is somewhat paradoxical, I think. While my closest friends drink, and that really doesn’t bother me, I get really uncomfortable when my family members or my boyfriend drinks. Each day, I interact with these people, Clockwise from top: Felicia Brown, Steve Clugston, Jenn Greene, Lauren Stutts and sometimes I believe I know them better than I know myself. But alcohol robs me of that. While they remain somewhat familiar after drinking, they aren’t the people I know inside-out in sober daylight. And since I can’t drink, it makes it especially difficult to stand back and watch them do so. I don’tsee alcohol as an evil device by any stretch of the imagination, but it is something that not only affects you, but those people who love you most. For their sake, please be responsible and considerate with your decisions.

Lauren Stutts: Ninety-nine bottles of water on the wall, ninety-nine bottles of water. Take one down, pass it around... I don’t drink alcohol at all. For one thing, I am very sensitive to drugs and chemicals (even small doses of caffeine make me jittery). Also, I think it tastes bad — I'd much rather indulge in a raspberry smoothie than a bitter-tasting beer. I am not against drinking if you do so responsibly, and it is a personal choice that everyone is entitled to make. It just seems that it causes more problems than benefits, at least among college students. Why create more problems for yourself?

Felicia Browne: Although I have no problem with students drinking (responsibly, of course), it worries me that some cannot offer a reasonable explanation when asked why they choose to drink. In order to prevent unrealistic expectations, it is imperative to ask yourself, “Why am I drinking?” because even alcohol has its limitations. For example, drinking can help one socialize or celebrate, but it cannot make a failed Bio test disappear, or any other problem. While this may sound like common sense, this awareness will aid in the prevention of future substance abuse dependencies.

John Corbett and Nia Vardalos in My Big Fat Greek Wedding

Talented Beck finally makes a great album in Sea Change

Latest album shows Beck’s maturation, and it may be the best effort of his career

By Andy Heston
Staff Writer

Beck Hansen is a cool guy. An interesting guy. A talented guy. The only problem is that he makes thoroughly mediocre albums. I won’t deny the talent present in Beck’s body of work. No one else has been as able to seamlessly combine one of the oldest influences on rock and roll, that of the good old-timey country blues, with one of the newest elements for rock to deal with, namely the rise of the synthesizer and the Electronic Age. The problem, then, isn’t Beck’s music, it’s his attitude. Throughout his entire career, his inarguable talent has been undermined by his hipper-than-thou irony, as if Beck considered the whole thing a big joke which we as listeners just weren’t smart enough to get. The diversity of Beck’s influences always seemed to come from more of a pop music Cuisinart than an honest appreciation for the music. He always seemed to me like he was just a smart, obnoxious kid playing spot-the-influence: “Hey, I’m into Mississippi John Hurt! Ha, fooled you, now it’s bossa nova! How about some hardcore punk now?” And his lyrics were just as condescending; sometimes his cocaine-nosejobs style of postmodern incoherency worked, more often it was just childish and obnoxious. The man wouldn’t know sincerity if it went out and bought him a bunch of Joni Mitchell records.

Yet his latest album Sea Change is something different, something more sincere, and consequently the best of his career. Just look at the cover of the album: Beck, dazed as if he’s just got out of bed, staring at himself in a bathroom mirror, messy hair, bad skin, and a surprisingly honest face. There’s a little bit of his neo-psychedelic Technicolor past in the form of some of the little colored squiggles and smears, but on the whole, it’s Beck with an openness he’s never even hinted at before. For a long time I thought Beck and introspection to be somewhat of an oxymoron. But on this album he delivers a Beck we’ve never seen before.

Just as on all the best albums, it’s not exactly the songs themselves that make this so affecting. It’s the overall atmosphere, the feeling you get when listening. For the most part, Beck has written twelve songs you’ve already heard before, and I mean that as the highest compliment. The entire album is a very stripped-back affair, typically limited to Beck’s acoustic guitar, maybe a pedal steel or keyboard, maybe some electronic flourishes. But the electronic elements on this album are just that: flourishes. This isn’t country/folk through a jaded postmodern lens; this is Woody Guthrie for the twenty-first century. Maybe a sort of Nick Drake-meets-Stereolab kind of sound. Try listening to “Lost Cause” or “It’s All in Your Mind.” Is this really the same man who made Odelay?

For a while I wondered what Beck could possibly mean by the title Sea Change. The “change” half seems a reflection on Mutations, the transitional piece which many heralded as the culmination of serious Beck, but was actually just his reaction to the equally inescapable and insincere Odelay. The “sea” half, though, is really what I find to be the biggest departure for Beck. His songs have always been interesting; rarely affecting. Yet on this album, he finally succeeds. Listening to this album is a bit like watching the ocean: there isn’t a whole lot to look at, which is a welcome change from the aural assault that Beck typically employs. Yet like looking at the ocean, it’s strangely beautiful, and immensely powerful. It is gorgeous in its simplicity. Congratulations Beck, you’ve finally grown up.