The Davidsonian | from Court, page 1

leaders to probe their own organizations to seek those responsible and encourage them to confess. In a follow-up letter to
the meeting, Vagt thanked PCC leaders for their dedication, and stated the status of the situation. Wrote Vagt: “I am
prepared to defend without ceasing your right as students to learn, and also to grow, to have fun, and even
to make mistakes. However, none of us can defend - or even tolerate - the continued willful abuse of the
fundamental principles of human civility such as we experienced again this weekend with the forced entry and thefts on the
Court, especially as it follows so closely on the heels of the events of mid-week. ... What has transpired demands
a response, and I would prefer that such response originate with you.”

Accordingly, Vagt delivered an ultimatum, stating that PCC houses had until Thursday, Feb. 21 to uncover those responsible for “violations
of the Honor Code.” He also asked house presidents to work toward devising a program that would “change this pattern
of behavior,” citing the insight provided in the Monday, Feb. 18 PCC meeting as “significant progress in that direction.” Finally,
Vagt stressed the error of condoning any criminal act, saying that those who possess knowledge of the perpetrators yet refuse
to present it are “just as guilty of an assault on the integrity of our community as those who stole
13 cases of beer from Rusk.”

The President threatened to shut down all organizations on the Court unless those accountable stepped forward. In response to these
actions and more, four individuals eventually assumed responsibility for the criminal acts of the 14. Judgments into possible repercussions have
progressed slowly since then.

According to Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano, the confessional statements of the four individuals
and her report of interviews with them have been “forwarded to the Dean of Students Office for review and possible
charges under the Code of Responsibility or Honor Code.” Sigma Phi Epsilon President Jimmy Swansbrough ’03 said, “conclusions to the
investigation might be made by the end of next week.”

Rusk President Alyssa Sinclair ’03 reported that three more individuals confessed Tuesday evening to the theft of beer from her
house on Feb. 16. “We got a swift response,” she said. “I think Patterson Court did a good job on
coming together and saying that we won’t tolerate this blatant disregard for the Honor Code anymore.” Sinclair noted that the
offenders have been “very cooperative and apologetic. They even offered to fix our broken cabinet, but Physical Plant had already
repaired it.”

Finally, Marsicano noted that another three individuals have come forward with the names of those guilty, noting their rights to
confidentiality.Check out the Peace Corps on campus this spring, sign up for an interview and discover why it’s still the
toughest job you'll ever love!

Wednesday, March 20th

PEACE CORPS INTERVIEWS*
Knobloch Campus Center
*Sign up NOW for an INTERVIEW IN THE CAREER SERVICE CENTER

PEACE CORPS INFORMATIONAL SESSIONS
Alvarez Union, Room 313
2:30 p.m.
Alvarez Union, Room 408A
7 p.m.

Contact recruiter Sherlene McCarther at (800) 424-8580 or smccarther@peacecorps.gov for more information.

The Peace Corps
(800) 424-8580
www.peacecorps.gov

Vandals to be reviewed under Honor Code

Individuals have confessed to damaging the kitchen door and doorframe in Warner Hall on Saturday. All perpetrators’ statements have been
forwarded to the Dean of Students Office for review of charges under the Code of Responsibility or Honor Code.

In another letter to house presidents, Vagt thanked Court leaders for their support in urging guilty parties to come forward:
“I believe that the people have come forward due, in large measure, to your leadership and effort; and I would
ask you to accept my thanks.” He also offered his assistance in facing the broader challenge of “changing the attitude”
that bred such acts of blatant disrespect on the Court.

Certainly, such acts have come as a shock to many on campus who abide by the Honor Code and Code
of Responsibility both in and out of the classroom. “People must honor their responsibility to act appropriately, and that will
only happen if there is a concerted effort,” said Vagt. Final decisions on punishment for the offenders may not materialize
until after spring break.

News Editor Colin Eagan contributed to this article.

Butterfly to visit campus
By Kevin James
Special Contributor

Environmental activist Julia Butterfly will speak this Thursday at 8 p.m. in Chambers Gallery thanks to a collaborative effort between
the Environmental Action Coalition, Speakers Committee, the Service Office, and the Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation. The public
lecture will be followed by a book signing.

Butterfly became famous in the late ‘90s for her 738-day stay in an ancient Redwood to bring public attention to
the devastating effects of deforestation on the Redwood ecosystem. Her stay in the tree prompted its protection and the protection
of an additional three-acre buffer zone. Her effort brought public attention to the fact that only 3% of the ancient
redwood forests remain.

Her book, "The Legacy of Luna," describes her experience in the tree, ranging from harassment by logging company helicopters to
personal discovery. Following her time in Luna, Butterfly joined with fellow activists to form the Circle of Life foundation. This
organization inspires, supports, and networks individuals, organizations, and communities to create environmental solutions based on respect for all life. Through
this group, Butterfly works to educate citizens on environmental problems and the roles they can play in solving problems. This
group also provides a means for Butterfly to help legislators interested in promoting positive environmental legislation.

For more information visit www.circleoflifefoundation.org.

Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes
104 S. Main St.
Davidson, NC
Eat-in
Take-out
