_ Ten Davidson students have been selected for induction into Psi Chi, the National Honor Society in Psychology. Founded in 1929, Psi Chi’s goal is to stimulate and maintain excellence in psychology scholarship. Membership is awarded to men and women who are making the study of psychology one of their major interests and meet the academic requirements. Psi Chi is affiliated with the American Psychological Society and the American Psychological Association, and has over 975 US chapters.

Davidson’s 2002 INDUCTEES:
Blake C. Bergeron ‘03
Laura Corinne Bondesen ‘03
Lauren Amanda Dennis ‘03
Alissa Leona Greenberg ‘04
Jennifer LeAnn Greene ‘04
McKensy Taylor Gruelle ‘04
Soren Morgan Johnson ‘03
Anna H. Mallett ‘04
Susan Grams Robison ‘04
Lucas Edward Spivey ‘03

SGA & T

LAKE NORMAN

Dear Student Body,

As part of a better way to help serve the students and make sure that your concerns and ideas are heard, we the SGA have decided to change the way this space in the Davidsonian is used each week. I think that printing the weekly agenda helped get SGA’s name in the paper weekly and at least let those interested students know what was going on in student government. However, some items on the agenda may not mean anything to students besides those few serving on SGA. In order to still accomplish our goal of serving the students, the SGA will be explaining the agenda each week so if a topic of interest or concern comes up, then you’ll know when it is being discussed in the SGA.

This week, along with our regular business, we’ll be discussing two important aspects of Davidson community life. The community red bikes will be re-released in the coming months. The SGA will try and hammer out a policy for the red bikes in hopes of avoiding what happened last time they were released to the student body, namely getting destroyed. The second issue for discussion will be Academic Policies at Davidson College. Several students have been concerned about grading procedures, attendance policy, and credit given to lab classes. The SGA will discuss any possible action we can or should take to relieve students’ concerns.

Please feel free to attend tomorrow night at 9 o’clock in the Sprinkle Room of the Union. If you are not able to attend but have some comments or concerns about the issues being discussed, please feel free to contact one of your SGA senators or myself before then.

Sincerely,

Grady Patterson
SGA President

Receive A 5% Discount With A Valid Davidson College ID

Offer applies to faculty, staff, and students!
18705 STATESVILLE RD.
CORNELIUS, NC
PHONE - (704) 892-6590
FAX - (704) 892-6596
7:30-5:30 M-F _ 8:00-12:00 Sat.
Cornelius Quality Repair By People Who Care!!!

Let’s Go ’Cats!