‘THE DAVIDSONIAN’

Disqualifications for illegal campaigning prompt review of rules

By Evans McGowan
Special Contributor

Unknown to many students across campus, three candidates of the 2005 class were disqualified in the previous class senator elections.
While the SGA resolved the issue peacefully, questions remain about the way elections are conducted. As a result, the SGA
has appointed a committee to thoroughly review the entire elections process.

The current rules are quite specific. According to Article VI.D.2.c, “there will be no campaigning within 50 yards of any
polling place.” In a handout given to the candidates in a mandatory pre-campaign meeting, the area from the physical plant
behind Belk to the Martin Chemical Building is off-limits, except for Dorm Row: Little thru Duke and the Union. Online
voting causes the computer labs to become polling places, and therefore restricted areas.

Three candidates - Andrew Schapiro ‘05, David Pope ‘05, and Scott Ferguson ‘05 - were disqualified for the same reason:
placing campaign ad(s) in restricted areas the night before Election Day, Monday, March 25. Two people campaigning under Pope wrote
a chalk ad on the brick walk between the flagpole and Chambers. Within the hour, Pope had returned to erase
the chalk, but a member of the Elections Council had already seen it. Though the incident occurred around 1:30 a.m.,
the campaign rules obligate an Elections Council member to report any violation.

Schapiro also breached the campaign rules by hanging painted paper plates on the magnolia tree outside of Little, not realizing
they were within the restricted area. Later he acknowledged his mistake and said the campaigning experience was still a positive
one. Ferguson also had a flyer placed out of bounds: the lamppost to the right of the stairs leading up
to the flagpole. No one campaigned for him, and he denies posting the flyer. Although he was satisfied with the
decision, Ferguson is concerned about others placing flyers in restricted areas, however innocent or malicious their intent. A single person
could derail a campaign by placing a flyer in a restricted area without a candidate’s knowledge.

The Student Executive Council called an emergency meeting into session immediately after the polls closed on Monday, following campaign bylaws.
They decided to disqualify the candidates because (a) all the candidates had received the rules; (b) each candidate had campaign
ads illegally placed; (c) the committee wanted to be fair to all those involved. Pope said he supports the decision,
remarking that if the committee had not ruled as they did, “the integrity that all of the senators bring to
their offices would have been compromised.”

Due to evident difficulties in the campaign bylaws, the SGA formed the Elections Revisions Committee to review the entire elections
process. Chris Pratt-Dannals, class of 2005 president and one of six members on the committee, wants simple and clearly-worded rules
so that “we don’t draw arbitrary lines.” Kevin Epps ‘03, rising senior class president and also a member of the
elections board, notes that electronic voting has changed the face of elections. Upwards of 80% of the students vote online,
doubled from the previous amount of 38%. While the bylaws were old and outdated in some respects, with every dorm
room now a polling booth, Epps feels the committee had to enforce the rules as stated.

According to SGA president Gray Patterson ‘03, the elections council “put some teeth into the rules” by enforcing them quite
literally. The rules have not always been enforced, leading two years ago to an election of two senators who had
violated campaign rules: namely campaigning in Commons, then a restricted area.Rules are now up for revision, and it is up
to Davidson students to bring about desired change. As always, the SGA is looking to further involve the entire student
body in the decision-making process.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER
3/30/02
Two juveniles were caught trespassing on Davidson College property.

The Few. The Proud. THE NEWS STAFF.
Have an article idea? Want to write about it? Contact Colin (coeagan) or Lindy (libaldwin).

Dear Student Body,

At last week’s meeting, the Senate decided upon policy changes that they would like to see on campus in regards
to our ongoing discussion on academic affairs. We were privileged to have Dean Ross and Dean Shandley attend our meeting
and directly answer questions pertaining to issues that we are exploring. After several weeks of discussion, the Senate is going
to ask that the appropriate committees look into increasing the availability of minors and concentrations, particularly in the more popular
departments. We would also like to make revisions to the process of assigning freshmen to their faculty advisors as many
students, particularly athletes, are concerned with not only the amount of time they spend with their advisor, but also the
advice they receive when it comes to web tree planning. If you have any suggestions about either of these topics,
please email Katherine Hubbard or Trip Young in the near future.

If you’ve been following the discussion on academic affairs, you'll notice that the Senate has decided not to pursue changing
the attendance policy. Senators felt it was a teacher’s right to decide attendance policies inside the autonomy of their class.
The SGA also felt that every class on campus should be worth one credit no matter if it required additional
class time outside the 2.5 hours a week or not.

The next big issue under discussion directly involving students on campus is that of parking. It was brought up last
year and voted down, but some students feel the issue is still relevant, especially in light of the recent run
of cars being broken into in satellite parking. If you are interested in this topic or want to learn more
about how SGA might be getting involved with campaign finance reform in the state of North Carolina, please feel free
to come to our meeting on Thursday night at 9 pm in the Sprinkle Room of the Union.

Sincerely,
Grady Patterson
SGA President

Notice of Proposed Amendment to the College Constitution

At its February meeting, the Board of Trustees was informed that, over the years, some of the College’s governance documents
have become inconsistent in their definition of “Faculty.” In an effort to bring some consistency to the documents, the Board
of Trustees is considering an amendment to the College Constitution that would adopt the definition of “Faculty” currently used in
the Faculty Bylaws. The following proposal was “laid on the table” at the February meeting and will be considered for
adoption at the April 12, 2002 meeting.

RESOLVED, that the Davidson College Constitution be amended by deleting the first sentence in Article II, Section 1 which defines
the Faculty of the College and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

“The voting Faculty consists of the President of the College; the Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty;
the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students; the Director of the Library; the Registrar; all persons holding
the ranks of Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Instructor, or Lecturer; and ‘visiting’ academicians whose appointments cover a minimum of
a regular academic year and entail full-time teaching.”

As required by the College Constitution, members of the Faculty, staff, and student body are encouraged to provide comments on
this proposed amendment. Comments should be directed to Dr. Clark Ross, Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty.

Notice from the Office of the President
