Al Gore is back. That’s right, the loser of the 2000 election has decided to shave the beard he was growing and emerge from his hiding place back into the political arena. Personally, I am very happy Gore is back. After all, the Democrats have President Bush to make fun of, and it’s only fair that Gore comes back to give Republicans someone to laugh at too. Gore gave a speech to his “home” state of Tennessee a few weeks ago, and one in Florida this past week. At both events, he criticized a number of Bush policies, including the tax cut and the death of the Kyoto Treaty, and managed to blame the entire recession on Bush as well. Who knew that someone once referred to as a simple-minded frat boy could accomplish so much in just two years? In fact, since 95 members of the Senate rejected the Kyoto Treaty and since the economy’s downturn began months before Bush took office, I’d say Gore has elevated Bush to God-like status. If Bush has acquired that much power, the Democrats might as well not run a candidate in 2004. One would think that Gore would have a better sense of timing after the 2000 campaign, and would have learned that bitter attacks do nothing more than anger independents along with all other thinking Americans. Gore showed in his most recent speeches that he is still too, well “Gore,” to win any election. Gore’s main point, besides his usual diatribe on the environment, was that the recent tax cuts were only a help to the rich. He claimed they “shoveled it [money] out to the wealthiest tax brackets.” Hey, if the system placed the tax burden on the poor, then I would completely understand Mr. Gore’s critique of the current administration. I may be a Republican, but I am far from wealthy. There is no need for the middle class and the poor to pay more taxes than those who earn high incomes. Fortunately, the facts save me the embarrassment of actually agreeing with Mr. Gore. The truth is that the poorest 50% of the country pays a mere four percent of the income taxes. The wealthiest 10% pays almost two-thirds of all the money collected. The middle class picks up the tab for the rest. Of course, there are a number of state and local taxes to add onto that total. However, Gore can hardly blame the current administration for taxes beyond its control. Gore also said that the Republicans “are out to dismantle every policy that helps the little guy and paint it as an effort to do him a favor.” This kind of class-warfare garbage seems to be the only ammunition Gore can manufacture to attack the administration. If he would come up with reasonable policies and present them to the public instead of tossing out more empty rhetoric, then the nation could begin a much-needed debate over policy. However, it looks like once again Gore is running from a debate on real issues and choosing instead to snipe at Bush from the sidelines. Mr. Gore needs to announce himself as a candidate (an idea many powerful Democrats abhor) and propose positive ideas, or he should grow another beard and slither back into the private sector where he belongs.

Catholic Church must face realities of the 21st century

Every denomination of every church periodically faces cases of sexual molestation. While there may be ways to reduce these cases, they will never be eliminated. The key issue is how these cases are treated. If you are the Catholic Church, you treat these cases by simply praying for your accused priests to get better and then putting them right back in the position to do the same thing again. It is a combination of ignorance and arrogance that leads to the Catholic Church’s problems. The Church sends priests accused of sex crimes to be evaluated at institutions that are not accredited by any respected physiological association. Rather, these institutions believe that simply praying for the priests and having them repent will solve the problem. The Church feels that if someone repents for his sins, God forgives him and therefore he is completely cured. However, the Church must realize that a person who molests children has psychological problems that simple praying cannot cure. In contrast, other denominations such as the Episcopal Church have clearly stated policies on these types of cases. The Episcopal Church, along with many others, immediately...The text has been cleaned while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Vatican takes any priest under suspicion of sexual abuse and removes them from their posts. The priests then undergo extensive psychological examinations. Furthermore, the priests are not allowed to return to practice since there is no definitive way to tell if they will commit such crimes again. The Vatican is simply unwilling to face reality. Pedophilia is not a homosexual problem, or a problem with the morals of our society, as some Catholic priests claim. People don’t molest children because we have pornography in our society, or because they are homosexuals. The reasons are much more complex than that, yet the Catholic Church refuses to deal with those complexities. One such complex issue that the Catholic Church ignores is the archaic practice of celibacy. Celibacy represses natural human needs and desires, but in normal society, people must eventually deal with their sexual desires. The priesthood and celibacy provide an environment in which priests do not deal with their sexual urges, and so they become repressed. This repression, in turn, could contribute to pedophilia. Regardless of whether Catholics believe in radical reform, the Church must wake up and face the realities of the world it is in. This is the 21st century, not the 12th. The Church must stop hiding under the veil of tradition and deal with the issues confronting it today.

RLO’s haziness is damaging relations with students

The Residence Life Office has been making a lot of headlines recently. And I would just like to explain why: because they are messing with people. RLO is singlehandedly acting as an authoritarian regime and is doing all in its power to get people into trouble, get them out of their rooms, and get on people’s nerves. For one, this whole Flowe controversy has blown the lid wide open off of RLO’s can that it stores Davidson students in. (Did anyone follow that metaphor?) It has shown how RLO gets its dirty work done — in a cloud of smoke and haze that it creates when writing its rules. Students - Group A - were not given the apartment in Flowe that their lottery number deserved. Group A got stuck in B. Group X was given the Flowe apartment, even though they didn’t list it as a preference. Sure, there are rules on dorm halls limiting the number of frat members that are allowed on a hall. And yes, there is a rule that limits how many brothers are allowed on an apartment side, but this is Martin Court. This isn’t a sub-free monastery. It doesn’t matter how many frat members live within 20 feet of each other — by 2 a.m. they are all going to be there anyway! So Group A protested that the lottery rules weren’t fair. And, to cover their trail, RLO attempted to just put them back where they should have been in the first place, while leaving Group X out in the rain. (Or in B - same difference.) Well, we’re not buying it. If we’re not careful, pretty soon quiet hours are going to be from 9 p.m. — 9 p.m. Finals every day! Hooray!

There is also another issue that needs to be brought up. This one has recently affected one house (SAE) substantially and in the future will catch others. The apartments on Patterson Court that are built into the fraternity and eating houses have traditionally been occupied by members of that house. So, RLO (because they’re nice), even though they regulate those rooms, still give the houses first dibs on who lives there. But, then there’s the catch. If a frat or eating house doesn’t get anyone to live there, or no one wants to live there, then the house has to pay for that room. That’s over $2,000 a semester! But then RLO throws another possibility in there, just for fun I guess. “A non-member could be assigned to the space if the house cannot fill a vacancy.” Guys, which one is it? Is the apartment RLO’s or does it belong to the house? If RLO is the total controller of the apartment, then they need to treat it like a room and take responsibility when it doesn’t get filled, just like in a regular dorm. Let’s not be throwing bills around any more than we already are, like charging folks 10 bucks to be told that their room is still a mess. I think it’s time that RLO starts to become a little more straightforward with the rules and regulations regarding housing. Shady deals and sketchy rules are making the tenants restless, and I think that if no changes are made in policy, then Davidson is going to see a flood of off-campus housing request forms.