_ The Davidsonian

Tougher physical training regime pays off for ROTC

Cadets combine physical activity, leadership, and service under new Commanding Officer

By Travis Lee
Special Contributor

The Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Company at Davidson has seen a busier than usual semester as its new Professor of Military Science and Commanding Officer, Captain Patrick Leslie, wraps up his first year with the cadets.

The physical expectations were the first dramatic change as it became required of all cadets (excluding varsity athletes) to be present at 6:00 a.m. Physical Training (PT) three times a week. For those who underperformed on the Army’s Physical Fitness Test (APFT), the requirement was to be at PT every weekday.

Every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday morning, the cadets can be seen working out in front of Chambers, on the track, or on the practice football fields for a game of soccer or Ultimate Football. The result of the new PT requirements has undoubtedly been very high enthusiasm and morale, as well as increased physical ability and health of the cadets.

Tuesday training labs from 1:00 to 4:00 in the afternoon have also changed. They have become more intense and focused on learning by experience. Efforts have also been made to find new and thrilling events for the cadets to take part in.

Recently, labs have involved individual movement techniques, a workshop on military ethics with Dr. Martin Cook from the Army War College, rappelling at the Concord Fire Department, a jousting lab for learning hand-to-hand combat, and, always a cadet favorite, a 10K road march.

Besides these expected and required duties, the Davidson cadets also volunteer throughout the Charlotte area in roadside clean-ups, blood drives, and color guards at sporting and holiday events. They also take part in Battalion-wide training events with various other schools in the area, such as the Field Leadership Reaction Course (here at Davidson) and Field Training Exercises at Fort Jackson, South Carolina (coming up April 11-14).

It is in these capacities and situations that the Davidson Army ROTC cadets take what they learn in lab and what they have gained from PT to perform as leaders.

Though many changes have occurred throughout the Davidson ROTC department, they are not the result of a lackluster program from the past. They are part of the philosophy of the program’s new leadership, which has made an already outstanding group of cadets even better, and has worked hard to attract only the finest and most dedicated prospective cadets.

Author of book on Afghan wars will speak at Davidson

Best-selling author Larry P. Goodson will lecture on Islamic, Mideast politics

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS
Press Release

One of the nation’s leading authorities on Afghanistan’s continuing conflicts, Larry P. Goodson, will speak about that issue at Davidson College on Wednesday, March 27. His free public lecture will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the Smith 900 Room of the Alvarez College Union.

Goodson, a professor of International Studies at Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., is author of the book Afghanistan’s Endless War: State Failure, Regional Politics, and the Rise of the Taliban (University of Washington Press, 2001). The book has been on the New York Times and Amazon best-seller lists.

Since September 11, he has done more than 300 interviews and lectures, including appearances on CNN, CBS Evening News, Fox News, MSNBC, PBS, NPR’s “All Things Considered” and “Fresh Air.” His views have been featured in many major newspapers, and he has consulted with government agencies and foundations concerning US policy toward Afghanistan.

He plans to publish two more books soon. The Talibanization of Pakistan: Transformation of a Society is scheduled for 2002, and Politics in the Middle East is scheduled for 2003. However, both may be delayed in favor of a more pressing book project on the causes of cross-civilizational conflict between the Islamic world and the West.

Goodson, a native of Mount Olive, earned his bachelor’s degree in political science and economics at UNC in 1980, and his Ph.D. there in 1990. He joined the Bentley faculty in 2001 after teaching at University of the South, the American University in Cairo, Campbell University, UNC-Greensboro, and UNC-Chapel Hill.

Goodson’s teaching interests center on comparative politics (focusing on the Middle East, Central Asia, and South Asia) and international relations (including security studies, foreign policy analysis, and international political economy). His special area of scholarship is the modern politics of Afghanistan and Pakistan, and he has lived and traveled there extensively since 1986, most recently in 1997.

His talk at Davidson is sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program in International Relations. For more information, call the Rusk program at 704-894-2440.

Melanie Anne Albert
Carey Beth Arvin
Frederic Joseph Bold, Jr.
Laura Garrison Bradford
Adam Blackstock Brown
Jeremy Michael Campbell
Kelley Elizabeth Cantrell
Stephanie Lynn Courchesne
Caroline Perrin Cunningham
Hilary Gail Dack
James Howard Daniel Jr.
Richard Seth Davis
Ellen Claire Freeman
Jennifer Lynn Frymiare
Daniel Charles Gibson
Sarah Corinne Green
Matthew Hutchins Greene
Joel Feurt Hanisek
William Lehman Herring
Aaron Mitchell Houck
Melissa Divan Johnson
Abigail Duniway Johnson-Reid
Kristi Ann Jones
Margaret Anne Kozicharow
John Phillip Lambeth
Kristin Leigh LeBlanc
Brandt Arthur Leibe
Caroline Jane Little
Kathryn Jane Livingston
Kristin Kay Lucas
Anna Greene McDonald
Kerrin Elizabeth McKillop
Molly Elizabeth Markarian
Elizabeth Marie Melchionna
Ariana Cecilia Mendiondo
Jaclyn Louise Miles
Christopher John Norbert
Megan Kathleen O’Neill
Dana Carolyn Paquin
Diana Marie Pendergrast
Amy Alderman Poe
Stanley David Prybe
Steven Young Reece
Philip Andrew Reed
Virginia Lang Robertson
Adam Francis Rocap
Nathaniel Trimble Rogers
Andrew Clayton Schultz
Susan Maureen Shaw
Elisabeth Standley Smith
William Samuel Smoak, Jr.
Emily Elizabeth Smoak
Brad Gregory Stevinson
Elisabeth Maria Summerlin
Jonathan Carl Tetirick
Richard Blackburn Vinson
Melanie Jaren Wadkins

HANNAH FUHR AND VINCENT BENJAMIN