Grades, from page 1

ulty in the September 2000 faculty meeting. Ross voiced concern that the average GPA had risen to 3.218 in the spring of 2000, noting that GPAs usually fluctuate in the 3.0 to 3.1 range. "In the meeting, the dean tends to provide grade statistics,” said Ross. “I urged faculty to reflect on their grading practices and reflect on whether their own grading was consistent with others in their department.” He did not, however, suggest faculty take a specific policy against grade inflation. “We want faculty to give a sound, rigorous course.” 

This lack of specific policy against grade inflation may come as a surprise to Davidson students, some of whom feel they are subject to the standards of an unusually tough faculty. Said Adam Hill ’03: “There is a truism circulating around campus that hits home with most everyone I’ve talked with: ‘You know you’re a Davidson student when you put off homework by doing other homework.’ Even when we’re working, we still feel as if we’re falling behind.”

Ross points out that, while students tend to view the administration as a force pressing grades down, departments with particularly low GPA averages are encouraged to review their grading policies, just like departments with high GPAs. “One of the things I’m concerned about is making sure that there is some degree of comparability across departments,” explained Ross. “We take [GPA] information and ask faculty to reflect on it. That means lower grades coming up, not always higher grades going down.” 

Ross emphasized that the administration adopts no proactive stance against grade inflation. “There is no aggressive arm-twisting here. In fact, there is no arm-twisting. It’s a providing of facts,” the dean said. Though the administration might not actively prevent grade inflation, it appears that Davidson professors understand nonetheless the school’s desire to keep grade averages under firm control. “The administration has never made a secret of the fact that it wants to avoid grade inflation,” commented Art Department Chair Serebrennikov. “Every year at the August or September faculty meeting, the dean tends to provide grade statistics.”

“I'd say we probably have higher standards and expectations than professors in many other places,” said Religion Professor and President Emeritus John Kuykendall. “Sometimes, though, that comes out in the amount of work expected and the relative difficulty of assignments rather than in grading our students.”

At Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, by contrast, students are allowed to declare Pass/Fail as late as the end of March and are given the option of revoking that declaration. Some have pointed out that the delayed deadline is...is beneficial to GPAs, as it allows students to make a pass/fail decision after they are sure of their grade in a class. A successful student may choose to count a high grade, while a student who did not excel may choose to take a “pass.” In both cases, GPAs are boosted. Students question strict grading practices and GPAs dropping despite the school’s lack of proactive policy against grade inflation.

Not all students object to this philosophy. Richard Vinson ‘02 agreed that good grades may be hard to come by at Davidson, but said that ultimately high expectations carry benefits for the students. “I know everyone wants to do well, but people have to be realistic. You cannot expect to make As and Bs in every subject, for the simple fact that not everyone is equally talented in all disciplines. A liberal arts education should give a person exposure to many areas of knowledge, but it should also help a person identify his or her strengths and weaknesses. If you make stellar grades in all subjects, that is not an accurate indication of where your strengths lie. In addition, it cheapens the good grades that you did deserve,” said Vinson.

Ross also stressed that “un-inflated” grades are ultimately beneficial to students, and offered another explanation of the dangers (see Grades, page 3). He was interested in seeing people given “that opportunity carte blanche, as we feel that pass/fail should be used for a purpose other than a structural means to increase your GPA,” Ross continued. “It’s not that anyone’s negative or worried about increasing GPA, it’s just that it goes against the academic rationale by the faculty for having the pass/fail. And that is why faculty are generally not as sympathetic to having no deadline.”

Ross describes the Feb. 25 deadline as a compromise, observing that students still must declare pass/fail.

---

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

1/27/02 1755hrs - Cannon
A Breaking and Entering and Larceny occurred in Cannon Dorm. Two victims had $300.00 stolen from them.

1/31/02 2300hrs - Baker Sports
A missing person report was made at the Baker Sports Complex. An elderly man who had medical problems was reported missing from the Davidson Basketball game. After an extensive search, the elderly man was located partially underneath a car in the parking lot. The man was unconscious and needed medical attention. He was transported to Lake Norman Medical Center.

1/31/02 1100hrs - Student Union
A Larceny of money occurred at the Student Union. This case is under investigation.

2/1/02 1445hrs - Akers
Larceny - Subject left a bag of clothes outside his room and when he returned, the bag of clothes was missing.

---

Call Now: 1-800-787-3787

Summer Camp in Atlanta
Westminster Day Camp seeks employees with integrity and character to fill all positions (swimming, canoeing, archery, arts and crafts, etc., and general camp counselors). Campers are 4-13 years old. Camp dates are June 10-July 19, Monday-Friday, 8:30-4:00 and orientation June 4-7. Please call 404-609-6265 for application and salary scale or apply online: www.westminster.net/campstaff