@ALENDA LU

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2002

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 21

WIN BELK INVITATIONAL

Kevin Bei '05 (left), Brad Becken '03, and Chris Schmader '04 race in the 3000-meter event, page 16

Watson fellowships awarded

Davidson seniors given prestigious globe-trotting independent study grants

By Nick Asma
Senior Staff Writer

Four Davidson seniors were recently awarded the esteemed Thomas J. Watson Fellowship to pursue independent research projects abroad in the upcoming year.

Davidson led the nation with four awards. All four of the school’s nominees - Danielle F. Dillard '02, Amber L. Hartman '02, Jason C. Hollis '02, and Adam J. Norris '02 - were selected in the nationwide competition. Each will receive a $22,000 award towards their independently designed project. The four projects deal with issues including sea turtles, human beauty, and international health care.

The four were among the 60 Watson Fellows from 41 colleges and universities from across the nation announced last week by the Thomas J. Watson Foundation. Since its inception in 1969, sixty-five Davidson students have won the prestigious Watson Fellowship, but the last time the school had four winners was 1972.

Dillard, an English major from Greenville, S.C., is pursuing a study entitled “Thin and Now: Interpretations of Large Bodies Discovered Through Images and Interview.” Her project focuses on the “ever-changing concept of feminine beauty cross-culturally by examining how ideals are formed and whether they are based on lifestyle, traditions, economics, location, and a host of other factors.”

see Watson, page 6

RLO sees major increase in sub-free housing demand

Watts Hall, three floors in Cannon added to list of substance-free dorms

By Amanda Pennock
Senior Staff Writer

Due to an increase in demand, the Residence Life Office will designate additional living space for substance-free housing beginning in the fall semester.

According to Dean Leslie Marsicano, director of Residence Life, RLO had originally designated 10 spaces on Basement Cannon for upperclassmen, 24 spaces on First Cannon for upperclass women, and all of Watts for freshmen as substance-free housing for the coming year. Marsicano explains that “using Watts represented a small increase in first-year sub-free housing in keeping with our last two years’ experience of having more first-year students request sub-free housing than we had spaces. However, [RLO] did not increase the number of spaces available to upperclass students initially because we were not expecting to be over-subscribed.”

Because upperclassmen are able to use the lottery to choose their neighbors and informally cluster with other sub-free students in West and the Martin Court apartments, RLO was slightly surprised to receive “a number of emails from students who were concerned that [they] had not designated enough sub-free spaces - particularly men’s spaces - and that there were not enough singles on the designated halls,” according to Marsicano.

see Sub-free, page 3

TIBETAN MONK RESIDENCY

Buddhist monks from the Loseling Monastery in India use sand to create a mandala in the Union during their residency last week.

New rule promotes ‘equity’ in honor trials

Ministers, family members, lawyers will be allowed in waiting room during trial

By Colin Eagan
News Editor

A change to the Code of Disciplinary Procedures proposed by the Honor Council was recently made final following approval from the Student Conduct Council and the Office of the President.

The “right to additional support” change, first recommended by the Honor Council this fall, revises the process of an honor trial.

Under previous wording of Part III, Section F., 5g of the Code of Disciplinary Procedures, the accused has the right to be “accompanied at the hearing by counsel of his or her choice,” who may advise but not participate directly in the proceedings. This law permitted professional counsel, parents, or anyone else desired by an accused student to sit in the courtroom during trial.

The recently approved change states that “An accused student may request additional persons (i.e., family member, minister, lawyer) be allowed to sit in a nearby waiting room during the proceedings of the Honor Council,” thus removing counsel from direct contact.

The SCC held its first vote on the change in the fall, following a passing vote from the Honor Council. The change was formally recommended to the President’s office with the SCC’s second vote at its January 30 meeting. President Bobby Vagt recently submitted his approval, making the change final.

According to former Honor Council Chair Will Parker ’02, the alteration was first suggested to better preserve the student-run nature of the hearing process. “A nicely dressed attorney or emotional parent in the room can be very distracting, and inconsistent with what we want the trial process to be like,” said Parker.

Another driving reason behind the change was described by Parker as the “equity argument.” Students who could not afford professional counsel were disadvantaged under the old wording, as the college has no current provision for providing legal assistance.

see Trials, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News Pages 1-6
ROTC cadets devise tougher training routine with new boss. Page 5.

Arts and Living Pages 7-9
Complete recap of the Academy Awards ceremony. Pages 7-8.

Perspectives Pages 10-11
A look back at the Andrea Yates trial in Houston. Page 8.

Sports Pages 12-16
Baseball finally gets on track with two weekend wins over UNC Greensboro. Page 12.