THE DAVIDSONIAN

Berkey, students lead discussion about Middle East conflict

T-shirts, from page 1

learn about the historical basis of the current problems in the Middle East.”

“We are not a campus where many people bother to think or talk about serious issues. We wanted to spark
debate and make people think about complex issues of far greater importance than which frat they plan to get trashed
at this weekend,” he claimed.

Both students also noted the skewed perspective of the pro-Israeli media.

Brooks and Massengale both feel the protest was a success because it produced discussion on the issue between students, faculty,
and staff on campus, and led many people to ask the protestors questions.

“I had a lot of people come up to me and thank me for what we were doing,” said Massengale.
“The shirts got notice and mention in most of my classes.”

“It showed the Davidson community that there were students who were outraged and horrified of the actions of Israel as
they attempted to ‘root out terrorism,” noted Brooks.

The shirts were chosen as a form of protest due to their visibility and uniqueness.

“We thought that T-shirts, in coordination with signs, was the best way to make our statement visible,” said Brooks.

“Furthermore, we hoped that people would see the signs and then discuss them and the issue with people wearing the
shirts.”

Protestors encountered little conflict throughout the day. “Most people I talked to were very polite and wanted to learn more
about the situation,” said Massengale.

The students decided to continue the protests and use additional means to elicit discussion across campus. On Thursday, April 18,
20-30 new students gathered in Chambers 318 after watching “Children of Fire,” a documentary of the First Intifada shown by
the History department’s Dr. Jonathan Berkey. There they designed shirts much like the first group had. The next day previous
and new shirt protesters wore their shirts across campus.

Also on Friday, the students organized a solidarity lunch/teach-in at the amphitheater in front of the Union. There Dr. Berkey,
along with his Islamic Civilization and History class, led a discussion about the current situation in the region. Many other
students showed up to participate in the discussion.

Later last week the group posted additional flyers and ran a tabling campaign.

“Our goal is to have twice as many people join us,” said Massengale.

“We also plan to begin a letter writing campaign to United States Congressmen and Senators urging them to support a
fair and balanced foreign policy concerning the conflict between the Palestinians and the Israelis,” said Brooks.

The Few. The Proud.

Have an article idea? Want to write about it? Contact Colin (coeagan) or Lindy (caneicyn).

Dear Student Body,

At last week’s meeting, the SGA voted on two very important issues: parking on campus and the level of political
involvement of the SGA outside campus. We first voted on a resolution by Alex Massengale and Josh Craft asking the
SGA to support campaign finance reform in the state of North Carolina. Alex reported to us that many other colleges
in the state had passed similar resolutions and that the endorsement of Davidson College would help their efforts. The Senate
then decided that they didn’t wish to involve themselves with political matters outside of Davidson College. While the SGA realizes
that there are some issues to be addressed that would affect students as citizens of a greater community, this was
not one of them.

The second issue that was voted on concerned the class of 2006 and where they should be allowed to park
next year. A resolution was written by Kevin Epps (President ’03) and Susanne Francis (Senator ’03) that asked for all
incoming freshmen next year to be forced to park in Baker parking lot. The proponents for this resolution cited the
recent rash of break-ins occurring on campus and by forcing freshmen to park in Baker, perhaps we would help make
this campus safer for everyone. However, several senators, including myself, did not feel that safety was a valid reason. If
satellite is so dangerous then why is it full most of the time? Why not ask residents of Duke, Sentelle,
and Cannon to park there, since they are the closest anyway? The SGA voted down the resolution.

This week the SGA will be evaluating the relationship between campus police and students, particularly on Patterson Court. Graham Watson
(Senator ’03) will give a ‘year-in-review’ to the Senate. We will also be approving appointments to the faculty committees, and
voting on suggested changes in the elections process. Please come to our meeting on Thursday night at 9 pm in
the Sprinkle Room of the Union.

Sincerely,

Grady Patterson
SGA President

LUDACRIS — in concert

Wednesday, May 1st 8:00 p.m.

Davidson College Union Ticket Office
Monday — Friday
1:30 pm - 5:30 pm

$25 General Admission
