Examine the Enron collapse on the right: Enron documents are protected

A common criticism of Conservatives is their close ties with big business. Excluding the obvious counter-example of Ted Turner (who sometimes makes Ted Kennedy look like a fascist), they often have a valid argument. There has been a great deal of crossover between right-wing political consultants and several large corporations. The result of this mixing is a dubious blend of economic interests and political power.

After the energy corporation Enron declared bankruptcy on Dec. 2, 2001, information concerning a possible link between the White House and the corporation came to light. Cries of impropriety from the press bring back memories of the Clinton years. White House officials withholding files, an angry Congress demanding documents be revealed, and leaders denying responsibility. Does the stench of scandal emanating from the Bush White House smell as rotten as its predecessor’s? The simple answer is a resounding, “no.”

When the General Accounting Office, a body created by Congress to monitor itself, asked White House officials for documents concerning the financial interests, they readily complied. No violations were found. However, some members of Congress are not satisfied. They and the GAO are demanding to see notes from all of Vice President Dick Cheney’s meetings with Enron executives. In response, the Vice President has avowed several times that records of his private meetings will not be made public. The press cries foul, but I believe he is in the right legally and morally.

My libertarian leanings make me a firm believer in the stringent policing of government. Unless national security requires that an institution overstep its bounds, every law should be strictly enforced. As Thomas Jefferson said, “It is the natural progress of things for government to gain ground and for liberty to yield.” If Cheney broke the law, he should be held accountable. On the other hand, I am concerned with the long-term implications of the GAO’s actions. By extending this institution’s powers to the executive branch, it raises troubling implications for the future balance of power within our government. It could also impede the Vice President in his main responsibility: advising the president. Congress demanding a list of everyone who met with the Vice President, as well as notes from the meetings, is a severe encroachment on executive power.

Enron is not the cousin of Watergate or any of the “-Gates” that haunted the Clinton White House. It is, however, a crumbling corporation that should be thoroughly investigated to protect stockholders, as well as an issue that the administration should discuss openly. But the GAO should cease its attempt to acquire the Vice President’s records. Not because of faith in Cheney’s morals, but for the sake of maintaining the balance of power.

Mike Galdo '04

Time is now for campaign finance

Campaign finance reform was one of the top issues in the 2000 election largely because of the efforts of rebel Republican candidate John McCain. Over the past year, House Republican leaders have done a very effective job of silencing any efforts to reintroduce a campaign finance bill. Now, with the Enron scandal showing just how corrupt and damaging soft money can be, campaign finance is knocking on the House doors once again.

Last week, a petition was signed by the required 218 members of Congress to require House Speaker Dennis Hastert to allow a vote on the Shays-Meehan Bill, the name of the new campaign finance bill. Now that the legislation will finally be brought to the floor, it is important to step back and realize just how important campaign finance laws would be to our political system. The Shays-Meehan bill would limit soft money donations and would ban political advertising by outside groups. Enron was just one of many examples of large corporations that made significant soft money donations. In fact, since 1989, Enron has contributed over $6 million in soft money donations.the simple reason that to do so would be a serious degradation to the Constitutional powers of the executive branch. Donations of this magnitude by such large corporations lead to political parties being indebted to these companies. Such feelings of indebtedness in turn lead to political favors that benefit these corporations, not the country.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2002

Imagination, memories hold the key to happiness

It’s important to cherish the insignificant

The other day I received a telephone call from one of my YaYas, Rory. The YaYas were my closest friends in boarding school. We were the girls who snuck Cosmopolitan into Sunday chapel services, sang karaoke on our dormitory desks, read the same books at the same time, and blamed unfortunate freshman girls for our own messes and mistakes. The YaYas made boarding school memorable. I hadn’t thought about them recently, and calling them hadn’t even crossed my mind. These were the girls who knew my secret fears and loved me because of them. They made me brave and they made me smile, oftentimes without their own knowledge.

Live out of your imagination instead of your memory — Les Brown.

The YaYas thrived on imagination. A dull Saturday night in our dorm was transformed into a steak cookout on the patio, an exploration through the campus woods in search of the perfect location for our fort, sneaking below dorm levels after hours for late-night phone calls, planning imaginary trips to Mexico, and making ‘Top 10 randoms’ lists. These memories remind me that although my YaYas now are far away — there once was a time when we were all that mattered in our simple world of censured boarding school meals and basketball games.

What seems so vital now will, in time, be just another cobwebbed chore. We won’t remember that excellent thesis statement or the grade that we received on a research paper. We will, however, remember the time that our football team beat Georgetown and everyone rushed the field and eventually tore down the goal posts, the way that students met in the new Union to pray for the victims of Sept. 11, or that time when a bunch of crazy boys decided that it would be really cool to put vegetable oil on First Richardson Hall during Self Selection Morning.

It is important to relish in what seems insignificant—the long walks with your friends discussing what it would be like to fall asleep while walking in the middle of the airport, the words that your roommate mumbled last night in her sleep, or that one feature of your best friend that will always and only remind you of them. Maybe Les Brown is right. But I’d like to think of it as using one’s imagination to live and cherish the moments that once existed.

For instance, President Bush’s energy policy, which would increase our reliance on large energy companies rather than trying to increase our energy efficiency, helps those very companies that contributed to Mr. Bush’s campaign.

Soft money contributions undermine our democracy. Very few corporations can afford to donate to the political parties, and those that can often gain unfair influence over legislation and policy-making. The result is an increasingly small group of wealthy businessmen having an increasingly loud voice in how our country is run, all at the expense of smaller companies and individuals.

It is essential that Congress pass the Shays-Meehan Bill in its current form. Some members of Congress, such as Representative Bob Ney, have tried to introduce alternative campaign finance bills that essentially ignore the key issues. Mr. Ney’s plan would simply cap, not ban soft money donations, and at a level nearly equal to that of past donations. Campaign finance reform is too important to brush aside in this manner. It is an issue that will help shape the future of our political system, and therefore our country.