By Matt Garfield, Managing Editor

To make a return trip to the NCAA Tournament, the men’s basketball team will need big contributions from veterans adjusting
to new roles and freshmen adjusting to the college game. Experience won’t be one of Davidson’s strengths. Head coach Bob
McKillop summed it up best after the Duke game: “We graduated five seniors. We have three seniors, one — Michel
Lusakueno — who has never played more than 10 minutes in a game, Wayne Bernard, who is adapting to a
new position, and Peter Anderer, who has not been a starter. So those three seniors don’t have a lot of
experience and exposure,” he said.

The three freshmen that already get heavy playing time obviously have even less. All have played admirably four games into
the season, but the Southern Conference tests that decide the champions are yet to come. Here are three keys to
determining whether the Wildcats will be one of them:

Point guard play
Wayne Bernard was originally recruited to Davidson as a point guard, but spent his first three seasons at the shooting
guard position. Now a senior, Bernard is adapting well to his new position, giving the Wildcats a scoring threat they
haven’t had in previous point guards. Just ask Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski: “The thing that was a little shocking for
us, was for the past five or six years, Davidson has had a little point guard who gets the ball
up court and does a great job of that,” Krzyzewski said. “We didn’t think Bernard could do that. What we
thought was wrong.”

Bernard missed parts of the past two seasons with academic-related suspensions, and never quite played up to his potential. But
given a full off-season to get into shape, he’s playing the best basketball of his career, averaging 17 points and
seven assists thus far. “Coming into this year, I knew I’d be playing point guard,” he said. “Over the summer
I worked on things I thought a point guard would have to do, like ball-handling.”

Three-point shooting
Nearly every player on the Wildcats’ roster is capable of scoring from three-point range, making this the most perimeter-oriented team
in Bob McKillop’s 14-year tenure. Even forwards Conor Grace and Jouni Eho are capable of connecting from beyond the arc.
“We have so many threats that it opens it up for different guys every game,” said freshman Matt McKillop. “Our
balanced attack is opening stuff up all over the floor. When somebody’s having an off-night, there’s always guys there to
step up.”

The team proved it Sunday against Washington & Lee, hitting a school record 19 treys. Senior Peter Anderer is the
most accomplished shooter, finishing last season as the 12th most accurate in the nation. This year he has plenty of
help. With so few scoring threats on the interior, the Wildcats will rely on the three-point shot to provide the
bulk of their offense.

After losing five seniors to graduation and junior Nick Booker to an academic red-shirt year, the Wildcats have huge holes
at the frontcourt positions that will have to be filled by freshmen. No one expected freshman Ian Johnson to outplay
McDonald’s All-Americans like Duke’s Shavlik Randolph in the season opener, but Johnson did just that, scoring 23 points in his
college debut.Johnson gave us great points with his back to the basket,” said Davidson coach Bob McKillop afterward. “He’s got
terrific footwork and he really has a soft touch.” Freshmen guards Matt McKillop and Brendan Winters will also receive heavy
minutes. Both are dangerous outside shooters. The road ahead includes match-ups against No. 1 Arizona and No. 12 North Carolina—not
to mention contests this week against Charlotte and St. Bonaventure, both of which reached the postseason last year. And then
comes the Southern Conference. “Overall, the talent level is there,” said the elder McKillop. “The experience level, however, is not.
Obviously, we’ll need major contributions from players who are untested and unproven.”

Men’s hoops Thanksgiving recap

Sunday
Davidson 114
Washington College 51

The practice games are over. Now the real tests begin. The Wildcats (3-1) used two Div. III games over the
weekend to build confidence, get into a rhythm, and prepare for three straight home games against tougher Div. I competition.
Consider it done. Every Wildcat saw action in Saturday’s 114-51 beat-down against Washington College, but the most damage came from
freshman guard Matt McKillop. A 6-2 guard with a deadly shooting stroke and a famous father, McKillop scored 24 points
on 9-of-11 shooting—revealing yet another scoring threat in a growing arsenal of Davidson shooters. “We have so many threats inside
and out that it opens it up for different guys every game,” said McKillop. “Our balanced attack is opening stuff
up all over the floor. When somebody’s having an off-night, there’s always guys there to step up.” The suspense ends
quickly in the three or four games against Div. III teams Davidson plays every year, but head coach Bob McKillop
says they serve a valuable purpose. “We need players feeling good about the way they’re playing,” he said. “I think
both these games accomplished that.”

Saturday
Davidson 105
Washington & Lee 48

This is exactly the game Peter Anderer needed. Struggling to find open shots and misfiring when he got them, the
senior guard came into Saturday’s contest against Div. III Washington & Lee on a cold streak. The Anderer of old
returned in Saturday’s 105-48 victory over the Generals with a game-high 22 points on 6-of-8 three-point shooting. After managing only
seven shots against a stifling Duke defense, and then bottoming out two days later with a scoreless performance against Navy,
Anderer regained his rhythm against Div. III defenders much slower and less athletic than the Blue Devils or Midshipmen. “They’ve
done a good job of trying to deny me the ball, being in my face most of the game,” said
Anderer of Duke and Navy. “It’s been tough to get shots off. I was happy to have some (today).”

Wednesday, Nov. 27
Davidson 69
Navy 61

Conor Grace keyed a decisive second-half rally to lift Davidson to its first victory of the season against Navy. Grace,
a 6-8 sophomore forward from Dublin, Ireland, posted his first career double-double with 18 points and 11 rebounds. With the
Midshipmen concentrating on stopping veteran scorers Peter Anderer and Wayne Bernard, Grace came alive with 14 points in the second
half to help the Wildcats hold off Navy’s rally. “Conor picked up some scraps tonight,” said head coach Bob McKillop.
“Navy focused on stopping other players, and Conor took advantage of his opportunities.” Joining Grace in double figures were Ian
Johnson with 14 points, Wayne Bernard with 13, and junior Jouni Eho with 11. Bernard also had a double-double, dishing
out a career-best 13 assists. “Both teams were coming off emotional games on Monday night, and I was delighted with
how energized and emotional we played,” said coach McKillop.
