Ad Staff Editorial

As Spring Break quickly approaches, many Davidson students are planning trips that will include high levels of alcohol consumption. News reports consistently point to the large numbers of college students who binge drink, which is defined as four consecutive drinks for women and five for men. We at Davidson aren’t the exception to this trend. “Pregaming” is a frequent occurrence on Friday and Saturday nights. Small groups of students gather to do shots or chug beers in an effort to get drunk before they hit the Court. Pregaming usually includes many strong drinks in a short period of time. Some would suggest that this is common since beer can be hard to come by on the Court. Underage students are not allowed in the basement, and there’s always the risk that running beers will cause trouble. Even students who can legally drink tend to pregame, since drinking on the Court limits their options. Liquor and open containers aren’t allowed and beer often runs out quickly.

We all know that binge drinking is a dangerous habit. It contributes to drunk driving, irresponsible decisions, and serious injury. It also increases the risk for alcohol dependency. College students aren’t going to stop drinking, and we aren’t suggesting they should. But we tend to drink irresponsibly because our options are limited. The way to stop binge drinking, ironically, is to make it easier for us to obtain alcohol. If all of us could drink openly on the Court, the temptation to pack in as much alcohol beforehand would not exist. We’re not defending binge drinking. It would be less frequent, however, if all students were given the opportunity to prove their responsibility by drinking publicly.

Clearly, Davidson’s policies should not violate the law nor should they make it easy for us to violate the law. But underage binge drinking is a national problem and a national solution is in order. College students are old enough to cast a vote, drive a car, and serve in the military. They should also be considered old enough to choose their beverages and to drink them responsibly, like other adults.

The Davidsonian
@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Timothy Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh
Gavin Weber

Sports Editor
Caroline Hauser

Photography Editors
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Lartimore
Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR by WILEY

On dealing with arbitrary hatred

In response to “What to do when you get offended: deal with it!” (Tim Cook ‘04 column, Feb. 20). Tim Cook told us to “pick our battles” and to “deal with it.” I agree with only one of these statements, and I believe that the “20 Most Terrible” people list is a battle worth fighting. I refuse to “deal with” the arbitrary hatred that Davidson College funds.

Frankly, “deal with it” is the worst advice possible. I thank God that history remembers the lives of people like Martin Luther and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who refused to “deal with it” and valiantly fought the status quo. Barely 10 years before the majority of this current student body was even born, women were not allowed to attend Davidson College. Those women didn’t “deal with it,” though. They fought for their rights and won.

When Dan Flynn told the campus last year that alleged cop-killer Mumia Abu Jamal should be executed, the student body didn’t “deal with it.” They gave him hell! Davidson is recognized for having one of the nation’s strongest Honor Codes. What Ryan and Mbye broadcast over Davidson-sponsored airwaves was not honorable. Davidson has a Code of Responsibility that is intended to govern the conduct of each student. What Ryan and Mbye did by insulting their fellow students was not responsible. Davidson also has the ideal of the “Davidson Gentleman.” What Ryan and Mbye did was juvenile and ignorant. A classmate of mine was on the list for no reason other than physical appearance. Mr. Cook, do you really want us to “deal with” such arbitrary hatred?

Mark Murray ‘04

On a similar note

Hey Tim Cook: what’d you think of those ignorant prigs who were offended by that insensitive Sig Ep party title? Doubtless they...are “puritans” and “really do suck.” Take your mindless blather and your extremely arrogant attitude out of the Davidsonian and “dare” to make me kiss your feet.
Roland F. Foss ‘05

A brief question
“Does anybody know what happened to the F on the marquee at the Union Café? I haven’t seen it for a few weeks now.”
Khoury Ashooh ‘03

The best of times: Special Combe
Once upon a time, the SGA retreated to Dean Shandley’s house. There, amidst great bonhomie and camaraderie, it brainstormed to come up with a list of “Top Five Goals” to achieve over the next year. Goal #1 on the list was “Decreasing student apathy” or, plainly, increasing attendance at athletic events and speakers, thereby increasing school spirit. Goal #4 on the list was installing cable TV access in dorm rooms. Perhaps the most frequent item on the SGA agenda that year was goal #4. Although he eventually failed, the next SGA president used his attempt to secure dorm-room cable as a major part of his presidency campaign. Goal #1 was barely whispered, let alone attempted.

Once upon a more recent time, two students running for SGA President — both with extensive SGA experience — based their campaigns on expanding CatCard use and resurrecting the Vamonos Van respectively. In reaction, another student — with no previous SGA experience — decided to run for the same office on the platform that the Davidson SGA needs to broaden its political discourse to more serious things, especially in light of Sept. 11. This upstart challenger declared, “We as a student body have the potential to take control of our governing body and make a strong statement about who we are and the impact we want to make on the larger community... The SGA needs to spark greater dialogue about diversity and religion in order to strengthen ourselves and our community.” He ran a commendable race but in the end was not even in the run-offs.

In some ways, the student who aimed to raise political discourse to a higher level was right. Some of the issues he brought up are indeed deep and serious ones that the SGA ought to discuss — on a national scale as well as in this community itself. We’re extremely privileged to be at Davidson and should absolutely be examining our potential to make a substantial and sustainable impact on the world. Yet, in several ways, he missed the point. He’s either way before or well after his time. In both examples cited, we Davidson students made it clear where our priorities lie. Voting for cable TV and CatCard expansion might seem shallow and superficial in the light of the mess our planet is in, but it is also a reason to celebrate how lucky we are. We do not need to organize to overthrow a corrupt dictatorship, as students in Indonesia recently did. We don’t need to worry where our next meal is coming from, as students in several nations do. We don’t need to worry about how to join the jihad against those infidel Americans raining bombs down on our brethren, as students in most Islamic schools are probably doing.

I’m reminded of the story of an American officer who happened to be in Italy in the aftermath of World War II. Noting the frenetic political action in Italy at the time, he commented that until Italians cared more over what soap to use than what party to vote for, they would never have peace. The United States is at that stage now. We can walk into a store and choose from 10 different brands of cereal or ketchup. We may be in a recession and seniors may be struggling to find jobs, but, overall, these are the best of times. This era will probably go down in history as a wonderful period to have been in America. After all, our choice as students is not between fundamental political issues such as who is going to lead a march against the government or who is going to start an anti-national newspaper. Our choice is between who is going to let our parents pay for pizza and who is going to drive our wasted selves home from off-campus parties. Our leaders represent what we think is important. Thus, it seems we want to use our CatCards more than we want to raise deep and challenging issues. Sad, perhaps, but also undoubtedly fortunate. We are truly privileged, and I hope we realize it.