crises at Strong Tower spark need for more clinics

Administrative problems leave free clinic frequently closed; two other facilities scheduled to fill gaps in services

By Katy Elwell
Special Contributor

The opportunity to volunteer at a free medical clinic has been enjoyed by many Davidson students. Volunteering at a free
clinic provides pre-med and other interested individuals with the chance to make a difference in the community while participating in
a professional medical environment.

“Volunteering at a free clinic helps me put things in perspective,” Jennifer Swails ’04 says. “Seeing how much doctors help
people motivates me and makes getting through the pre-med classes at Davidson a lot easier.”

Ashley Crimmins ’03 agrees. “Sometimes it’s so easy to get wrapped up in myself and my needs and personal challenges
that I forget how different life can be for other people,” she said. “Being able to interact with patients at
the free clinics is a reminder of the things I often take for granted.”

From Oct. 1998 through last semester, Strong Tower Free Medical Clinic in Huntersville has been the main outlet for Davidson
students looking for such an opportunity. However, Strong Tower has experienced recent administrative difficulties, and is only open one day
a month—but few know which day that is. The clinic’s schedule is too sparse and sporadic to make volunteering on
a regular basis feasible, or to help as many patients as it did previously.

Since the changes at Strong Tower, Davidson students are currently developing relationships with two other free clinics, The Community Free
Clinic in Concord and The Free Clinic of Our Towns, at the Ada Jenkins Center in Davidson.

Swails and Crimmins have been forging a new connection with The Community Free Clinic in Concord. The Community Free Clinic
has been open for years, but Davidson students have not been involved with it in the recent past. Most ties
were cut when the closer Strong Tower opened, as students preferred a shorter drive and would rather work in a
community closer to Davidson.

While The Community Free Clinic will provide volunteer opportunities for interested students, it will not be able to reach many
of the people in the Huntersville community served by Strong Tower. In response to the need for a new free
clinic, plans are in the works for a clinic at the Ada Jenkins Center in Davidson. Helen Nguyen ’05 is
working with The Free Clinic of Our Towns, which is still in the planning stages, with hopes to open in
January.

Strong Tower, The Free Clinic of Our Towns, and The Community Free Clinic in Concord provide care to people who
are ineligible for Medicaid but cannot afford their own health insurance. Doctors at the clinics also refer patients to specialists
in the area who agree to work free or for reduced rates.

Despite the time and effort the clinics and volunteers put into helping people, Crimmins says that she and others sometimes
feel that they can never do enough. “In many ways I feel like I’m putting a band-aid on a gaping
wound,” she said. “We need long-term solutions, not just short-term care. There needs to be a way to break the
poverty spiral and empower people to provide for their own health care. So much of what we see is preventable,
yet such a small portion of all healthcare funds are aimed towards prevention.”

The Community Free Clinic receives no federal funding. Though some of the money comes from grants, most of the money
that supports the clinic comes from the community. The clinic at Ada Jenkins does not yet have all of its...Funds
secured, as plans began in August. Crimmins, Swails, Nguyen, and others are working hard to make a difference in the
community. “Many people feel better just knowing they can see a doctor, get a prescription, and have their fears and
concerns addressed,” Crimmins said. Swails agrees. “The most rewarding aspect of working at the clinic is patient interaction,” she said.
“It’s great to know we can help people in the community, even though there are a lot more people who
need care than the clinic can handle.” Students interested in getting involved should look for a table at the volunteer
fair.

Ask about our US Stylists - $20 cut & style spa packages hair services.

Senators discuss smoke-free dorms and Purple Bunnies

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

Last Thursday, SGA met to discuss a proposal for all smoke-free dorms and the chartering of the Purple Bunnies publication.
During the SGA meeting on Nov. 7, SGA President Gray Patterson ’03 mentioned that RLO is considering making all the
dorms on campus smoke-free. The senators tentatively discussed the pros and cons of this issue, although many details were not
known. For the Nov. 14 meeting, the Residence Life committee brought RLO’s actual proposal for the senators to peruse. RLO
listed six reasons why all “traditional” residence halls (not including Martin Court apartments) might become smoke-free:

- The demand for non-smoking residence halls has been increasing among students; very few first-year students identify themselves as smokers
on their housing applications (only four in the Class of ’05 and six in the Class of ’06).
- Smoking is the number one preventable cause of death in the United States.
- According to a study conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health, smoke-free residences may help protect those students
who were not regular smokers in high school from smoking in college.
- Smoking is a safety hazard; currently, West Hall is the only residence hall that is equipped with a sprinkler
system (although a current campus-wide renovation plan calls for the installation of sprinklers in all residential halls).
- Allowed smoking in residence halls leads to expensive damage; for example, the carpet of 3rd West’s lounge was replaced
for almost $3000 merely nine months after the building opened.
- A survey of peer and competitor institutions indicates that campuses similar to Davidson’s have adopted a campus-wide smoke-free residential
policy.

Martin Court apartments would not be included in the list of smoke-free residential halls because of the different configuration of
the halls, the very sensitive smoke alarms, and the “educational philosophy of Martin Court as transitional housing,” which entails that
residents should be allowed to make their own choices about smoking.

A second major topic of discussion at the meeting was the chartering of the new on-campus publication Purple Bunnies. According
to their constitution, Purple Bunnies aims to “provide a medium by which all members of the Davidson community will feel
the freedom to share the struggles in their lives.” The hope of the staff of Purple Bunnies is that members
of the Davidson community will have the “opportunity to be heard...and [healed],” and that the “empathy level of this tight
community” will be raised. Purple Bunnies, founded and organized by Zoe Segnitz ’04, will cover a different, predetermined subject each
time it is published. The first issues of Purple Bunnies were delivered to each on-campus room last Thursday night and
provided a forum for people to share their personal experiences with eating disorders through poetry and essays. SGA approved the
charter for Purple Bunnies and authorized money through ATC to help finance the first few issues of the publication.
