@ ALENDA LU DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2002 VOLUME 94, NUMBER 12

CLOSE CALL IN CAMERON
By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

It’s not often that a 15-point loss will change your outlook on an entire season. But judging by the reaction from opposing teams and media commentators, the men’s basketball team’s 95-80 loss to Duke may have done exactly that. Coupled with a road win over Navy and two blowouts against Division III opponents, the Wildcats (3-1) are off to a surprising start in what many thought would be a rebuilding year. Three more tests come in the next six days, when James Madison, Charlotte, and St. Bonaventure visit Belk Arena in key non-conference games.

Saturday’s contest against the 49ers will likely draw Belk Arena’s biggest crowd in four years. More than 5,000 people, including 2,000 49ers supporters, may come close to selling out the 5,700-seat arena, said Ticket Office Manager Lee Sargent. That would make it the best-attended game in Belk Arena since 1999, when 5,500 fans watched College of Charleston continue a 15-game winning streak with an 84-80 victory. “This is a game to get there early,” Sargent said.

Wayne Bernard and Peter Anderer (right) pressure Duke’s Dahntay Jones during last Monday’s 95-80 Blue Devils win. Story, page 12.

Showdown with Charlotte highlights big basketball week

The Wildcats’ Week Ahead
THURSDAY vs. James Madison
SATURDAY vs. Charlotte
TUESDAY vs. St. Bonaventure
All games begin at 7 p.m.

Davidson hasn’t beaten the 49ers since a 56-54 win in 1996, losing six times since then. But see Charlotte, page 11.

News — 1-4
How stressed are you? Artists make stress part of a campus-wide display. Story on page 4.

Arts & Living — 5-6
8 Mile reviewed. Story on page 5.

Perspectives — 7-8
Student supports smoking in dorms. See letter on page 8.

Sports — 9-12
Men’s basketball challenges Duke, falls 95-80. Story on page 12.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
The lights are on the Chambers tree, and Davidson is ready for Christmas. See schedule of celebrations on page 2.

Peace Group founded to examine alternatives to war
Founders hope new group will propose peaceful solutions
By JULIA GORR
Staff Writer

Today, with the U.S. potentially on the brink of war with Iraq, many Americans are reviving discussions of peaceful progress, just as King and Mahatma Gandhi did through the 20th century. That revival is finding its way to the Davidson campus, where faculty and students are holding regular discussions about war and peace to talk about alternatives to war in a peaceful setting.

The idea for the group came about in a backyard meeting between neighbors and Davidson faculty—Biology Professor Malcolm Campbell and Ruth Pittard of the Community Service Office. They decided they wanted to see an alternative voice raised on campus in response to the media-driven, pro-war sentiment that they say seems to be the norm amongst most Americans today. The product of their discussion is the newly formed Peace Group. Pittard and Campbell are adamant that this is a personal endeavor for them both; they take great interest in making peace a viable alternative to the violence that our Western culture seems to apply to all conflicts, large and small. The Peace Group aims to discuss why devastating wars are not the answer, and how societies can go about revolution in

Alternative gift fair
By ELIZABETH CAMPBELL
Holiday giving projectsOther ways. While this may reek of Vietnam-era anti-warism, the Peace Group makes sure to differentiate its peaceful views from violently demonstrated anti-war beliefs. In their discussions, the group starts with the idea that war, throughout history, has not completely accomplished each of the goals that it sets out to achieve. Thus, peaceful alternatives are more civilized means to the same good intentions that may begin wars. Pittard describes the discussion atmosphere as peaceful; participants can offer differing opinions, but the tone of the sessions has little anger or aggression.

Recent topics of discussion have included the effects of war, children of war, and the consequences of Sept. 11. Talks usually center on documentary films or guest speakers from the Davidson community. The Peace Group has met each Friday afternoon this semester, and there has been a consistent core of about 20 attendees. The group plans to continue weekly discussions next semester, and all members of the community are welcome. Also, the group hopes to co-sponsor more prominent outside speakers in evening lectures this spring. Next semester should also bring interesting discussion, as the U.S. government may take military action over the Christmas holiday. Still, Pittard says, “We [the United States] should be looking to be Solomon, not the Terminator.”

Toys for Tots
By Jimmy Swansbrough
Special Contributor

Ever had trouble shopping for someone, the person who has everything that Belk and Target can provide, or the person who you can never seem to please? Why not stop by the Union Atrium this Sunday from 2-4 p.m.? Various organizations from campus will be there for the Alternative Gift Fair, an event that sponsors gifts to help people worldwide. Over 30 gifts will be available and range in price from $1 to $330. Gifts include a night of shelter for a homeless person in the United States, access to a solar computer for a student in Laos, materials for a well and pump to a family in Brazil, and mountain bikes for needy families in Mali.

“Alternative gifts are special gifts,” said one of the organizers of the event. “They help us focus on the real meaning of Christmas, and where else could you purchase a llama in honor of your parents? It’s a wonderful opportunity to purchase a gift for someone you love that really makes a difference.” The Alternative Gift Fair is supported by the Chaplain’s Office, Sanctuary Fellowship, and other service work through many other campus organizations.

Special Contributor

There’s more than sports on the mind of Davidson’s Student Athletic Advisory Council this winter. The SAAC will join with the United States Marine Corps’ Toys for Tots program to coordinate a campus-wide collection of toys for underprivileged youths. On Dec. 2, the SAAC will place donation boxes in the Patterson Court houses, Alvarez College Union, team locker rooms, and other prominent campus locations. Davidson students and faculty will then have until December 31 to fill the boxes with toy donations. On Dec. 10, the college’s donations will be displayed at the men’s basketball game against St. Bonaventure to encourage donations from the Davidson community. After the game, all donations will be collected by the Marine Corps and prepared for their holiday destinations. The SAAC hopes to elicit a large response from both the college and the town. Everyone is urged to donate generously. For more information about the Toys for Tots drive, contact Erin Rosintoski (errosintoski) or Meggie Patterson (mgpatterson).