12

Photo by Chris Keane, Special Contributor

Wildcats’ tailback Christian Hunt (right) is tackled by the Hoyas.

During fall break

Running game stuffed in loss to Hoyas

Most Davidsonians were away on fall break when the football team hosted Georgetown on Oct. 12. Given the Wildcats’ performance
in a 25-21 non-conference loss to the Hoyas at Richardson Stadium, that’s probably a good thing.

In what head coach Mike Toop called the most frustrating defeat of his two-year Davidson career, the Wildcats gave up
two fourth-quarter touchdowns to lose their second straight home game after winning the previous 14.

“Any team that can come from behind in the fourth quarter deserves to win the game,” said Toop. “Would I
like to play them again? No question.”

The Wildcats (3-3, 1-1) appeared to be headed for a victory with 12 minutes left in the game, after three
straight Paul Nichols touchdown passes erased an early 13-0 Hoyas lead. But on second-and-ten from his 30-yard line, Nichols fired
a short pass toward a receiver near the home side that was picked off and returned for a score that
gave Georgetown (2-4) new life.

“He thought he could make the throw, but it turned out to be a bad decision,” said Toop. “We were
still winning at that point. When you’re winning in the fourth quarter, you win the game.”

The ensuing two-point conversion attempt failed, leaving the Wildcats up 21-19. But on the Hoyas’ next possession, fullback William Huisking
caught a three-yard touchdown while on his back that put Georgetown up for good.

Playing without its star tailback John Leverett (shoulder) and its fastest wide receiver, Randall Hardy, the Davidson offense struggled, especially
in the fourth quarter when fatigue appeared to set in. The Wildcats finished with 20 yards rushing. The defense, meanwhile,
allowed 372 yards while failing to register a single sack.

“When you get into the sixth week of the season, very rarely do you have all 22 starters playing. So
that’s not an excuse,” said Toop. “I don’t think we played to our capabilities. We didn’t come right out of
the gate and play like we should’ve.”

- Matt Garfield

Title hopes dashed, football aims for winning season

The Opponent: Wesley has a powerful Div. III program, with an 88-34-1 record since 1990, including two straight titles in
the Atlantic Central Football Conference and seven postseason appearances.

The Wolverines: are experienced, with 17 of 22 starters returning off last season’s 7-3 team. But Davidson, the only Div.
I-AA team on its schedule this year, is probably the strongest opponent Wesley will face. The Wolverines enter the game
on a hot streak, having won three of their last four games, including a 35-0 shellacking of Apprentice last week.
They feature a dangerous offensive attack led by senior tailback Fred Edwards, who leads the conference in rushing with 120
yards per game and seven touchdowns.

Senior Farewell: Seventeen Davidson seniors will play for the final time in Richardson Stadium on Sat- Family Weekend.1 p.m. The
Davidsonian

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2002

‘Cats end two-game slide in Valpo win

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

This was exactly the type of game the football team needed. Its first 100-yard rushing total of the season. Four
touchdown passes by its quarterback. Three forced turnovers and five sacks by the defense. After two tough home losses, the
fact that last week’s 49-32 win came against a winless Valparaiso (0-7) team was of little concern to the Wildcats.
What’s important is that heading into Saturday’s Family Weekend home finale against Wesley, Davidson (4-3, 1-1) is in good shape
to notch its fifth consecutive winning season.

Paul Nichols passed for 293 yards and Christian Hunt rushed 29 times for 129 yards and two TDs as the
Wildcats trampled Valparaiso for the second straight year. The Crusaders, who entered Saturday giving up more than 50 points per
game, surrendered another touchdown in just 14 seconds by fumbling a handoff on their first play from scrimmage. Linebacker Raleigh
Robinson picked up the loose ball at the six-yard line and darted into the end zone for the first of
seven Davidson touchdowns. That play summed up the contest, as the Davidson offense scored at will after managing only four
touchdowns in its previous two games combined.

Richardson Stadium will be packed Saturday, and several players are on the verge of milestones. Senior quarterback Paul Nichols needs
20 yards to surpass Gordon Slade ’69 for first place on the school’s all-time passing list. Nichols currently has 5,027
yards—just the second Wildcat to surpass the 5,000-yard plateau. Nichols also needs two TD passes to become Davidson’s career leader.
Mike Chase needs 50 more receiving yards to move into the top 10 all-time at Davidson, while fellow senior Ryan
Tennis is 3.5 sacks shy of tying the single-season record of 11 set by James Cassidy in 1996.

What to Expect: The Davidson offense appears to be back on track after rolling to 49 points last week, but
it came against a weak, winless Valparaiso team. If the Wildcats can come close to duplicating that performance—and containing Wesley’s
Fred Edwards—bet on a relatively close Davidson victory.

Matt Garfield
The Davidsonian

Player of the Week
Paul Nichols ‘03
Football
Hometown: Dunwoody, Georgia
Major: History

Nichols threw for 293 yards and four touchdowns in leading Davidson to a 49-32 win over Valparaiso on Saturday. It
was the second-best passing yards performance of his career and the 12th time he has thrown for over 200 yards
in a game.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Women's Soccer vs. Furman
7:00 p.m. Thursday

Field Hockey at Appalachian State
8:00 p.m. Thursday

Men’s Tennis at Omni Hotels ITA Regional (through Sunday)

Wildcat Wrestling Clinic/Intrasquad
12:00 p.m. Saturday

Swimming vs. Radford, Gardner Webb (W), VMI (M)
1:00 p.m. Saturday

Field Hockey at Radford
1:00 p.m. Saturday

Football vs. Wesley
1:00 p.m. Saturday

Volleyball vs. Chattanooga
5:00 p.m. Saturday

Field Hockey vs. Georgetown
1:00 p.m. Sunday

Volleyball vs. Western Carolina
2:00 p.m. Sunday

Women’s Soccer vs. Wofford
2:00 p.m. Sunday

Men's Soccer vs. Clemson
7:00 p.m. Sunday

Women’s Soccer at UNC Greensboro
7:00 p.m. Sunday
