Thirteen movies that will scare you
BY CHARLES CUMMINS
Staff Writer

1. The Exorcist — Having been the subject of countless parodies, a terrible sequel, and a twenty-five year plus legacy,
some critics claim that this movie has not aged well and does not scare as easily as it used to.
I could not disagree more. But I might be biased, since one of the first times I saw it was
during a revival when it was playing in the greatest theatre in Washington DC — the Uptown. Picture a theatre
with a screen 40 feet high and 70 feet long that curves around you and the most impressive surround sound
I know of. In that setting, every curse uttered by the demonically possessed Regan (Linda Blair) is heard, every scream
of her victims piercing, bringing shivers down your back. To do this film justice, watch it on the biggest screen
you can find, with the sound up, and the lights off.

2. Psycho — Another oft-parodied classic, this film exemplifies the horror/suspense style of director Alfred Hitchcock and is the source
of many of the clichés that now can be found in any film of the serial killer horror genre. The
success of this film relies on the utterly shocking, twisted ending. If you scoff, just think of the first time
you saw this movie and saw the murderous “Mother” and the carnage she creates.

3. The Shining — “Heeeeere’s Johnny!” This line defines Jack Nicholson’s performance as the caretaker of an empty hotel who
eventually goes stir crazy, turning on his innocent wife and child. This is the film that cemented Jack Nicholson’s image
as the eerie man who strikes fear into film audiences. REDRUM, REDRUM. If you don’t understand the reference, go rent
this movie now.

4. Silence of the Lambs — “I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice Chianti.” Sir Anthony
Hopkins steals this movie as the cannibalistic psychiatrist whose power lies not in brute strength, but in the ability to
get into your mind.

5. Salem’s Lot — This film, based upon the Stephen King novel of the same name, is arguably the greatest
vampire story other than Dracula. Set in the small town of Salem’s Lot, the town members get an eerie new
neighbor who remains separated from the town. Quickly, townspeople start disappearing. The first moment the vampire appears on screen, you
are guaranteed to jump. It’s been released in two versions; go for the longer, 3-hour version.

6. Poltergeist — “They’re Here.” A family moves into a new home and quickly realize that they are not alone
— for the house includes numerous ghostly uninvited guests. Their young daughter, Carol Anne, first feels their presence through the
TV. One of the most frightening scenes involves the son’s pair of braces that go haywire — literally.

7. A Nightmare on Elm Street — Written and directed by Wes Craven, this film defines the horror/suspense genre as
it is today, in which excessive gore and violence are used to frighten an audience. The success of Nightmare on
Elm Street relies heavily on the performance of Robert Englund as Freddy Kruger, a killer attacking teens in their sleep,
and Wes Craven’s direction does a great job of blurring the line between what is a dream and what is
reality.

Cinema’s best comes to 900 Room on Friday nights
By Matt BANDYK
Staff Writer

There are many aspects of Davidson College that separate it from the more traditional college-going experience. While at many colleges
and universities students can go to their city for entertainment, a large amount of students at Davidson have to find
amusement on campus due to the lack of a large college town. The Film Committee, part of the Union Board,
is one of the many organizations that ensure that one can find numerous social outlets on our campus.

The current Film Committee chairman, Chandlee Caldwell ’03, remembers his freshman year when only a dozen or so people showed
up to watch the films that the old Committee had brought to campus. But this year, hundreds of students have
been in the audience for such major blockbusters as Spider-Man, Insomnia, Signs, Monsoon Wedding, and The Bourne Identity. Much of
this success can be attributed to the new Union’s C. Shaw Smith 900 room, which provides an ideal venue for
filmgoers.

But don’t expect the Film Committee to simply draw from the mainstream for its selection. Epicure is their night for
independent and foreign films, something that Caldwell hopes to turn into a Friday evening institution. A month ago the Committee
presented the Brazilian film Behind the Sun, the story of a blood feud between two rival families in the deserts
of northeastern Brazil. For Diversity Week, the Film Committee is showing the critically acclaimed Y Tu Mama Tambien, a movie
which broke box office records in its home country of Mexico and received a fair amount of attention in the
States, despite the bias against foreign films and its highly controversial sexual content. More obscure or hard-to-find films will come
to Davidson on future Epicures.

Any Davidson student can have an influence on what films will be shown. Simply email your suggestions to Caldwell (chcaldwell)
or approach him at a future Film Committee event. Caldwell has had little trouble in obtaining any of the films
shown thus far. Companies that buy the rights to films before they’ve even left the theatres provide them to colleges.

8. Halloween — Along with the Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday the 13th series, Halloween has defined the serial
killer genre for recent generations of movie audiences. Set in a small town on Halloween, Michael Myers, a mental patient
confined after...killing his sister as a young boy, escapes the hospital and returns to his hometown to attack teenage girls.
The film relies on the great performances of Donald Pleasance as the doctor on a desperate search to stop Michael
Myers before he finds his next victim, and Jamie Lee Curtis (daughter of Psycho’s Janet Leigh) in her first film.

9. Carrie — Based on the Stephen King novel, Carrie is the story of a young teenage girl, mentally abused
by her mother and bullied by her classmates, who seeks vengeance on those who for years have destroyed her life.
The film depends upon the performance of Sissy Spacek, whose piercing eyes will strike fear into anyone who watches this
classic.

10. The Others — The most recent film on my list, The Others develops into a well-done ghost story by
creating a frightful atmosphere. Set around WWII on an isolated British island, Grace Stewart (Nicole Kidman) and her children live
in an old mansion. The children suffer from a rare disease in which they are allergic to natural sunlight, and
every room they are in must be almost completely dark, with the curtains closed and all doors locked. As the
family begins to feel the presence of ghosts, the film plays like a fight for control of the house, with
a great twist ending that is sure to entertain.

11. Rosemary’s Baby — Mia Farrow turns in an incredible performance as Rosemary Woodhouse, whose odd pregnancy ends in the
birth of her child—a demonic child. Along with Farrow’s performance, Roman Polanski’s direction allows the audience to experience the same
paranoia that Rosemary feels, first as to why others want her baby and later what evil her baby could inflict
on the world.

12. Dawn of the Dead — This sequel to George Romero’s cult classic Night of the Living Dead is, in
my opinion, the greatest zombie movie of all time. The film relies on action and dated but nonetheless gruesome special
effects as human survivors take refuge in a shopping mall, desperately trying to fight off the zombies that just seem
to keep coming.

13. Pumpkinhead — Another neglected horror classic, Pumpkinhead is a highly enjoyable horror film, due in large part to the
special effects devoted to the title creature. Ed Harley, a small-town father, sees his son killed by joyriding city teens
and calls upon a local witch to summon the demonic Pumpkinhead to avenge his son's death. Ultimately, Ed loses control
as Pumpkinhead begins to kill anything in its way.

Dancing Tamburitzans bring high-flying act to campus
BY SHIHAB SUGEIR
Special Contributor

The Tamburitzans of Duquesne University in Pennsylvania are not your ordinary student organization. For one, Glenn Loney of the New
York Theatre Wire accurately described them as a “handsome young ensemble...almost a United Nations of Eastern Europe.” This year the
Tamburitzans celebrate their 65th year of existence, making them the longest-running live stage show in the United States.

The Tamburitzans began with a group of 12 men in 1937. They began by playing the tamburitza, a string instrument
used in traditional folk music of Balkan cultures. Since their humble beginnings, the Tamburitzans have become one of the most
prestigious student performing troupes in the United States, now composed of fifty students. These students travel throughout the United States,
as well as many international countries, in order to perform at a variety of venues. In an average year, these
students travel more than 40,000 miles and perform in more than 80 shows.

The Tamburitzans of Duquesne University are “dedicated to preserving and perpetuating the cultural heritages of Eastern Europe and its neighbors
through performance, while awarding scholarships to talented and deserving student performers.” Their mission statement is clear and the goals are
high. The Tamburitzans are comprised of a talented student population of passionate performers from countries around the world—like Bulgaria, Serbia,
and Hungary, just to name a few. Although these students excel in dance and music, many of the performers have
goals past the performing world. Igor Mileusnic, from Belgrade, Serbia, and Vladimir Olexa from Presov, Slovakia, both are majoring in
computer science. Jennifer Carlson from Spartanburg, SC, and Christina Egan from Monroeville, PA, both wish to pursue elementary or special
education. These are only four of the many people who are not majoring in music or dance.

These students compete for scholarships and a chance to call themselves a Tamburitzan. To become a Tamburitzan, these students go
through a grueling three-level audition process. Hopeful performers are judged for their singing, dance, and musical performance ability by a
panel of judges from the Duquesne University area. In many ways, the Tamburitzans resemble a Division 1 sports team more
than a student performance group. In a typical show, the performers go through more than 500 different costumes as they
represent various Eastern European countries. The show requires them to embody the folk traditions of these countries in song and
dance. According to Mark Kanny of the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, throughout the performance, “the Duquesne University Tamburitzans brought high-energy dancing that
generated...real audience enthusiasm.”

The Tamburitzans offer a performance that will impress all audience members. To see this great act, you do not have
to hop on a plane to Pittsburgh or go into Charlotte. All you have to do is buy a ticket
at the Davidson College Ticket Office on the third floor of the Union, next to the information desk. The C.
Shaw and Nancy K. Smith Artist Series brings the production of the Tamburitzans to Davidson on November 2nd at 8:00
pm in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Ticket prices range from $10 to $20, depending on seat selection.
