DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2002 sO ‘TA LIBERTAS @ ic VOLUME 93, NUMBER 17

Patterson Court vandalism sparks investigation
Rusk, Sigma Phi Epsilon, CoHo suffer significant property damage during ‘mindless’ Thursday morning spree

By Nick AsMA
Senior Staff Writer

Early Thursday morning, several houses on Patterson Court were subject to acts of vandalism resulting in more than $1,000 in
damage and leading to an investigation by both Patterson Court officials and Campus Police. According to Patterson Court Advisor Grahaeme
Hesp, the vandalism took place between 2 and 5 a.m. and was primarily directed at Sigma Phi Epsilon, Rusk eating
house, and the co-ed eating house, CoHo. Of the three, SPE and Rusk suffered the most damage. Hesp described the
acts as purely “blatant, mindless, criminal vandalism.”

Brothers arrived at SPE Thursday morning to discover the house in shambles. The floor and tables were littered with food,
miscellaneous condiments from the house were strewn about everywhere and, most notably, the fraternity’s new pool table was strewn with
beans and human feces. In addition, four windows were broken and shattered glass was scattered over the floor. Perpetrators also
stole three house member composites, all of the pool cues and four billiard balls. “I’m thankful no one was in
the house at the time of these acts. There were shards of glass 2-4 inches long all over the floor,”
noted Hesp. Such was the disorder that SPE’s cook was unable to serve meals for the remainder of the week.
The fraternity hired Physical Plant to properly clean up the mess.

Rusk eating house also experienced a similar level of destruction. The vandals ruined sections of the house along with decorations
for their annual “Heaven and Hell” party on Feb. 15. According to Rusk president Alyssa Sinclair ‘03, “The floors and
tables were covered in starch, syrup and cereal. Leftover food was dumped out on the floors and thrown at the
decorations on the walls. Eggs were on our couches and decorations. Our foosball table was covered in inches of food
and is completely destroyed.” Some members of the house and the cook were able to sufficiently clean the house to
serve lunch after police had taken photos. Physical Plant workers later came by and finished the cleaning job. The cook
estimated that the house lost at least $100 worth of food. The house still managed to redecorate on Thursday night
and throw their party on Friday evening.

The kitchen of CoHo was also damaged, though not to the extent of the other two facilities. Officials immediately commenced
investigation after discovering the acts, and currently both Patterson Court officials and the Campus Police are combining efforts to seek
the perpetrators. On Thursday morning Hesp met with the presidents of the victimized houses and PCC President Daniel Hanks ‘03
to discuss the events. That evening he also met with presidents of all houses on the court to present the
latest information to them. Presidents expressed “collective concern and annoyance” as Hesp encouraged house leaders to urge any guilty members
to step forward. All evidence “points to one organization at the moment and as of now it is only a
matter of pulling together the rest of the information.”

see Court, page 3

Patterson, Fiedler win top SGA and Union spots
A record 80% of students vote in Monday elections

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

A record 80% of Davidson students - a 450% increase over pre-electronic voting - logged on to vote in Monday’s
Category II elections. In a dramatic and extremely close race for SGA president, Grady Patterson ‘03 defeated Kevin Epps ‘03
in a Tuesdayrun-off. The day before, Kate Fiedler '03 emerged as the victor in a three-person race for Union Board
President. Charles Washington '04 was elected SGA Vice-President. Students also elected new members to key bodies such as the Council
on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), the Student Conduct Council (SCC), and the Honor Council.

“My main goal will be to improve on the system already in place,” said Patterson. “I will also look out
for Patterson Court and make sure that a healthy relationship is maintained by PCC members, Campus Police, and the administration.”

New SGA Vice-President Washington has student government experience dating back to eighth grade. “I believe the SGA Vice-Presidency should be
so much more than the official responsibilities,” Washington said when asked about his reasons for running. “The Vice-President needs to
remain involved in SGA activities. I know that I will continue to represent the student body’s collective interests in addition
to performing the official Vice-Presidential responsibilities.”

Fiedler defeated candidates Adam Hill '03 and Jeff Storms '02 to succeed Will Parker '02 as Union Board President. “My
opponents brought great ideas and experience to the table. I think we challenged each other in constructive ways. They were
both supportive last night after it was all over, and I really appreciated their response,” said Fiedler. The President-elect has
high hopes for the coming year. “I'm looking forward to opening up the board and getting committee members more involved
so our team is bigger and better.”

“I really missed the Davidson community while abroad last semester. I see the Union Board as a way to work
with other groups to develop just that: union. I want to work towards bringing people together for FUN, pure and
simple. It is easy to get caught up in the stresses of this demanding atmosphere, but I think it’s just
as important to play!”

Fiedler will begin recruiting new Committee Chairs starting Wednesday, Feb. 20. Also elected to key positions on the Union Board
were Vincent Benjamin '04 and Mbye Njie '04. Benjamin was elected as Vice-President: Co-Curricular Chair, and Njie was named Vice-President:
Social Chair.

Hannah Fuhr '04, Andrew Leventhal '03, Roberta Quis '03, and Katie Wilson '03 were elected to CCRL, an advisory body
that makes recommendations on many aspects of campus life. Beau Dasher '04 is now United Community Action President, and Jackie
Protos '04 became UCA Vice-President. Amy Leitch '04 was elected to the Review Board.

Six new Trustee Committee Representatives were elected to represent the student body to the College trustees. Ian Willoughby '03 was
named the Buildings and Grounds representative; A.C. Christopherson '03 was elected as the Athletics representative, and Lauren Perny '03 will
fill the role of College Relations representative. In Tuesday’s run-offs, the final three representatives were elected - Trip Young '03,
Academics; Lucy Long '04, Admissions; and Erika Dean '05, Finance and Budget.

New members of the SCC were also elected in Tuesday’s run-offs. The winners were Nancy Kohler '03 and Jimmy Carr
'03. Megan Schafer '03 and Mark Pustay '03 were elected defense advisors, and Patrick Baetjer '03 and Sally Stackhouse '03
won the race for student solicitors; these are key positions in Honor Code trials. Amanda Mildner '03 was elected Vice-Chair
of the Activities Tax Council.

Shylock in the Royal Shakespeare Company’s production of The Merchant of Venice, opening Friday. See page 6 for details on
RSC’s residency. Ian Bartholemew plays the moneylender.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-3
WALT 1610 AM will make changes to its talk shows in response to criticism. Page 2.

Arts & Living 4-6
Davidson welcomes the Royal Shakespeare Company. Page 4.

Perspectives 7-8
A hard look at President Bush’s environmental proposals. Page 12.

Sports 9-12
Men’s basketball wraps up SoCon North Division championship. Page 16.
