Men’s Soccer Championship Washed Away
By Matt Garfield, Managing Editor

The rain washed away Davidson’s hopes for a men’s soccer Southern Conference championship over the weekend in Charleston. It may have also robbed the Wildcats of an invitation to the NCAA Tournament. With parts of the playing field underwater and a backup facility already ruined by rain showers, conference officials canceled the tournament halfway through—awarding the SoCon’s automatic bid to top-seeded Furman and sending Davidson home two wins short of the title.

On Monday, the Wildcats’ season ended when the NCAA Selection Committee declined to give them a bid to the 48-team tournament. It was a bitter ending to an otherwise memorable season that included victories over North Carolina and South Carolina, both ranked No. 2 at the time, and a tie with then-No. 8 Clemson. The Wildcats, seeded No. 3 in the tournament, defeated Georgia Southern 1-0 in the first round and were on the field warming up for the Saturday semifinal against VMI when the decision was made to halt play. A win over VMI would have put Davidson into Sunday’s final against No. 1 Furman, which beat UNC Greensboro in its semifinal game.

“The cancellation... was extremely disheartening and abrupt,” said head coach Matt Spear. “The team had prepared all season for this event, and we believed we were in a perfect position to grab the title. Tournaments are postponed and canceled all over the country at the youth and high school level, but when so much is at stake, you just can’t expect it to happen in this situation.”

Senior Associate Commissioner Geoff Cabe said two corners of the Patriots Point field were submerged in water by Saturday afternoon, making conditions too dangerous to continue. “The field had deteriorated to the point where teams weren’t playing soccer anymore. It was becoming unsafe for the players,” he said. “We continue not to feel very good about it... We just felt at that point we had no alternative.”

The Wildcats played Georgia Southern on Friday at a high level.

Devil of an Opener: Freshmen Will Take Center Stage in Cameron
By Matt Garfield, Managing Editor

The seasoned veterans who led them to the NCAA Tournament last year are gone. A talented group of freshmen with great promise but little experience will take their places and try to defend the conference title. That’s Davidson, right? Yes, but it’s also the Wildcats’ opponent in Monday’s season opener, the No. 6 Duke Blue Devils. The two teams find themselves in similar predicaments entering the 7 p.m. meeting in Cameron Indoor Stadium.

Three Wildcat freshmen will make their college debuts in basketball’s most hostile environment when the Wildcats travel to Cameron Indoor Stadium for a 7 p.m. game televised on ESPN2. Forward Ian Johnson and guards Brendan Winters and Matt McKillop will each get heavy minutes against the Blue Devils. Seniors Wayne Bernard, Peter Anderer, and Michel Lusakueno will lead the charge, but the freshmen will have to contribute if the Wildcats are to stay afloat.

“Ideally, you want to play a lot of young guys when they’re more experienced,” he said. “(But) we don’t have a lot of control. It’s really the only time we could play.”

Fortunately for Davidson, the Blue Devils are in much the same position. Gone are All-American starters Jason Williams, Mike Dunleavy, and Carlos Boozer from a team that reached the Elite Eight last season. Replacing them is the most heralded freshman class in college basketball, highlighted by All-Americans Shavlik Randolph, Shelden Williams, and J.J. Redick. And point guard Chris Duhon returns for his third season to orchestrate the Blue Devils’ attack.

“There’s a tremendous level of talent,” said Matheny. “They still have at least the leadership they had last year in Duhon. He was their leader, and he’s back.”

The key to handling the Blue Devils, said Matheny, is avoiding costly turnovers against their aggressive, ball-hawking defense.

Davidson vs. No. 6 Duke
Monday, 7 p.m.
ESPN2
Cameron Indoor Stadium

The History: This is the...98th meeting between the two schools, dating back to the 1908-09 season. Duke holds an 80-17 advantage, including 18 straight wins, with the last Wildcats’ victory coming in 1987.

Scouting the Blue Devils: Duke topped EA Sports 102-74 last Thursday in its only exhibition game of the season. Coach K left the game at halftime after jumping off the bench and injuring his hip flexor muscle. He should return for Saturday's game against Army. Point guard Chris Duhon sprained his left wrist and sat out of practice on Tuesday, but is also expected to be ready for Saturday's home game against Army. Duke was led by freshman Shavlik Randolph, who scored 18 points, and Daniel Ewing, who added 16.

Davidson’s defense relies on converting giveaways into easy fast-break points. This year’s Davidson team, led by an athletic point guard in Bernard and a multi-dimensional supporting cast that can dribble the ball, is well equipped to handle that type of style, he said. “I think we handle the ball better than we have in the past. We can be a lot more versatile. If you can handle their pressure, you’ve got a better chance than teams that will turn it over 30 times a game,” Matheny said. Playing this game as a season opener has also given the Wildcats extra time to prepare. “We can put them through three or four days of simulating that type of pressure, as best we can,” said Matheny.

Soccer left in the rain by NCAA Tournament school field on nearby Daniel Island, SC, in an attempt to “save” Patriots Point for the final rounds, said Cabe. But by Saturday, both fields had become unplayable. There are no indoor facilities in the area, and because tournament pairings were announced Sunday, there was no time to postpone the remaining matches until the skies cleared, he added. “The teams were obviously disappointed,” he said. “But from the reaction we got from the players, they understood. We were as disappointed as anyone.”

Seniors Soren Johnson, Hussein Nasreddin, and Joel Sadler watched their careers end on Monday afternoon when the tournament bids were announced on ESPN News. Coastal Carolina, which received one of the last at-large bids after being upset by Winthrop in the Big South Conference final, may have taken Davidson’s spot in the field. “There are always going to be arguments on why one team got in and not another, but at this point, we must move on,” said Spear. “It’s been a great season. We celebrate our three seniors, who have led us to three straight winning seasons, and we look forward to a bright future.”

Matt Whited Senior Michel Lusakueno launches a jumpshot on Saturday against Vasda USA.

‘Cats handle Vasda in exhibition: Junior Jouni Eho led eight Wildcats in double figures with 18 points as Davidson, in its lone exhibition game of the season, posted a 113-76 victory over the Vasda USA Gold Team. The Wildcats played the game without preseason all-conference selection Wayne Bernard, who sat the game out with an injury as a precaution. Bernard is expected to be ready for Monday’s opener at Duke. Junior Terrell Ivory didn’t let Davidson miss a beat, playing 30 minutes at the point while posting a double-double with 10 points and 12 assists, nine of which came in the first half.

--Sports Information

The Davidsonian

Athlete of the Week: Henry Blue
Wrestling
Hometown: Butler, Maryland
Major: Undecided

Leading an impressive showing by the Davidson squad. Only a freshman, Blue is already showcasing his talent on the mat this season. In last weekend’s UNC Pembroke Classic, Blue placed 2nd in the 133-pound weight class.

THE WEEK AHEAD
Wrestling at UNC Pembroke
Women’s Basketball at North Carolina
Volleyball hosts Southern Conference Tournament (through Sunday)
Volleyball vs. Appalachian State
Men's Basketball at Duke
Women's Basketball at Elon
Men’s Basketball at Navy

Thursday------------------ 7:30 p.m.
Friday----------------- 7:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday--------------- 6:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m.