So much is happening in the world of sports these days. My interest was captured by the Little League World
Series, which wrapped up last Sunday when the team from Louisville, Ky., edged Senai, Japan 1-0 in front of 41,000
people. What better than watching our national pastime played by young athletes driven by nothing more than a genuine love
for the game? Juxtapose an event like this with Major League Baseball, which avoided a work stoppage by only three
hours on Friday, and one wonders why, as fans, we waste our money on professional sports when there is a
more pure form of the game being played in the lower ranks—for free.

For those not captivated by the batted ball, a much-welcomed fall favorite returns tomorrow night when the 49ers visit the
Giants in a classic pigskin matchup, while only a few miles away the U.S. Open winds down what has been
a fantastic display of tennis. Major League Soccer enters the final leg of its season with a battle for the
top spot raging in both divisions, and overseas European champion Real Madrid won the European Super Cup for the first
time on Friday, beating UEFA Cup-holder Feyenoord 3-1.

None of this really matters, however, because for the next nine months it will all take a backseat to perhaps
the most impressive group of student-athletes in the country: the Davidson Wildcats. We all had our hometown teams to root
for this summer, but now it’s time to cheer on our fellow classmates as they look to further establish Davidson
as one of the premier academic/athletic institutions in the nation. Obviously, our academic prowess is well known throughout the world,
but we can also prove that a small school with extremely tough admissions standards and an even more imposing workload
can compete with the large school juggernauts in the athletic arena.

A small step was taken last winter when the men’s hoops team knocked off UNC, and this fall even more
opportunities to slay Goliath will be available with almost each team scheduled to face a national powerhouse. The football team
boasts three players who garnered pre-season All-America accolades, while the women’s soccer team returns one of its deepest and most
talented squads in recent years. Men’s soccer, though young and untested, will look to improve upon last season’s success when,
at one point, it was ranked 16th in the country. All this points towards a very promising year for Davidson
athletics. So when the work is done, and it’s time to relax, head on out to the fields and support
the Wildcats as they strive towards national prominence.

-Richard Connolly
Sports Editor

Coach: ‘Remarkable to see the way USA Basketball is So respected’

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

Bob McKillop combined his pride in America and passion for basketball as an assistant coach on this summer’s USA Basketball
Junior Team. He traveled with 12 of the nation’s top high school players to Isla de Margarita, Venezuela to compete
against eight squads from North, South and Central America, and the Caribbean. The Americans finished 4-1 in the preliminary rounds,
lost to the host Venezuelans in the medal round, then rebounded to beat Argentina in the consolation game to salvage
a bronze medal. The USA team also earned one of four spots in next year’s Junior World Championships in Malaysia.

Although the outcome was disappointing—the losses snapped a 21-game winning streak dating back to the first tournament in 1990—McKillop says
the experience is one he’ll cherish. The 52-year-old coach has traveled all over the globe to teach basketball camps and
recruit high school players, but this was the first time he has ever officially represented the United States at a
worldwide event.

“Whether it was signing autographs or friendly handshakes or taking pictures, it was a remarkable experience to see the way
USA Basketball is so respected,” he said. “With that respect comes a sense of pressure and expectations of the way
you must perform on the court and act on the sidelines. We’re helping people shape their opinions about the United
States. That’s a big responsibility on your shoulders, but one that we felt capable of handling because of the...way USA
Basketball educated us.” It was also only the second time in his 30-year coaching career that McKillop has served as
an assistant coach—the other coming in 1978-79 at Davidson as an assistant to Eddie Biedenbach. Holland chaired the USA Basketball
committee that selected Oregon head coach Ernie Kent to coach the Junior Team, with McKillop and Gary Waters of Rutgers
as the assistants. The roster included Oak Hill Academy product Carmelo Anthony (committed to Syracuse), Texas natives Daniel Horton (Michigan)
and Chris Bosh (Georgia Tech), and Minnesota forward Kris Humphries (Duke).

Playing the role of assistant was an adjustment, but one that McKillop says ultimately makes him a better head coach.
“You see things from a different vantage point,” said McKillop. “Being an adviser rather than a decision-maker was a new
experience, but equally as challenging. It’s going to help me have a better feel for (my own assistants’) thought process
and what they go through on the bench.”

Although basketball is considered an American sport, McKillop says most outsiders tend to underestimate the quality of the game overseas.
“I knew we were in for a battle every time we took the court,” he said. “I’ve been saying since
the mid-1980s that there are great players throughout the world. If you look at the college ranks through the past
two or three years, you see there is progress being made by international players.” He says the style of play
is similar, but with a few major exceptions. “The international game is more physical,” he said. “There’s a more liberal
interpretation of the rules. The two referees (rather than three) make it somewhat difficult to be consistent. And the language
barrier was a challenge.”

Off the court, McKillop was struck by the friendliness of the people, but also by the huge separation between the
country’s rich and poor populations. “I believe our players gained a new appreciation for the lives they have here in
America,” he said. He expects the Davidson basketball program to benefit from his experience as well, because the people he
met are now familiar with a school they previously knew little or nothing about. “Maybe they’ll see our score on
SportsCenter and say ‘Oh yeah, I remember that school.’ So now maybe the guy from Brazil knows about Davidson. Plus
I can call somebody in one of the countries, or Ernie or Gary. I can count on them to give
me their input and advice and support. It’s a win-win all around.”

Graduating hoops class sign pro deals to play in Europe

Continuing the trend of Davidson professional basketball players are each of the five members of the graduating class of 2002:
Michael Bree, Emeka Erege, Fern Tonella, Chris Pearson, and Martin Ides. Both Erege and Pearson are headed to France to
play Pro A, the highest professional league in France. Erege recently inked a one-year deal to play with Bourg en
Bresse, while Pearson signed a contract with Vichy. The pro season in France begins in mid-September and culminates with the
playoffs in June.

Ides is headed to Greece to play in the first division with Larissa. Due to a labor dispute, however, that
season will not begin until Oct. 28. Although not signed as of yet, Bree and Tonella are both expected to
be playing in Italy and Spain, respectively. “These signings are a great statement about the work ethic of these young
men.”
