Bus REE RRS SORE

Rookie Blue places 2nd in 133-pound weight class, Coman earns 3rd place

By Brent McCormick AND Bossy KENNER

ESPN: swings and misses

With Around the Horn, ESPN is, and always has been, my favorite television station. And aside from Seinfeld reruns and Crank Yankers episodes, my brief time in front of the tube is still almost entirely devoted to this incredible network. As a kid—and surely plenty of you can relate to this—days did not officially begin or end until the latest edition of SportsCenter was complete. Indeed, ESPN is the greatest thing to happen to television since the remote control.

Not only does the network broadcast most any sporting event (and the occasional Poker championship or Spelling Bee), but as a nice change of pace, ESPN created shows like Outside the Lines and The Sports Reporters to provide relief from the onslaught of live sports coverage. After all, variety is the spice of life.

Last October, the network stumbled upon an absolute goldmine in the sports talk-show Pardon the Interruption. Affectionately known as PTI, the show features Washington Post columnists Tony Kornheiser and Michael Wilbon, who have been debating each other in the Post sports pages for more than two decades. Live and provocative, PTI is devoted exclusively to sports opinions and headline issues (such as Winona Ryder’s shoplifting scandal or Britney’s love trouble), and includes guest commentary from celebrity personalities ranging from Dick Clark to Michael Jordan. Not surprisingly, PTI has done remarkably well, and with its 5:30 p.m. timeslot has become a before-dinner must for college students nationwide.

But, greedy as network execs are, the bigshots at ESPN, under the impression that one good turn deserves another (which is only true when playing blackjack), decided to create another sports-related opinions show. Enter Around the Horn, which airs weekdays just before PTI and is hosted by Max Kellerman, an obnoxious boxing analyst with a Columbia degree and a heavy (read: annoying) New York accent. He is the Carson Daly of the sports world, complete with gelled hair and repulsive facial growth.

The show’s premiere was delayed a week due to technical difficulties—which is understandable considering the set has more gidgets and gadgets than a Russian spaceship—and it should be delayed even longer due to content. Around the Horn throws four marquee sports columnists from different American cities into a mosh pit of debate via teleconference as Kellerman presides over the chaos. Points are then awarded based on Kellerman’s reaction to the columnists’ opinions, and whoever has the most points at the end earns the gold medal—how original.

Why ESPN ever thought this would work is beyond me. The show never really gets to the heart of any issue, as the columnists are given barely enough time to form a coherent thought, and it seldom gets past the constant barrage of Dennis Miller-isms. And aside from being entirely confusing, Around the Horn lacks any creativity. Kellerman’s show is basically just a combination of PTI and The Sports Reporters. The show should really be called What Max Kellerman Thinks, because in the end his opinions are the only ones that actually matter. Unfortunately for Kellerman, though, his sports knowledge is often dwarfed by the likes of Bob Ryan from The Boston Globe whose sports expertise encompasses far more than just boxing.

And so, while ESPN has been a loyal friend for so many years, I’m afraid our relationship now takes a half-hour break each weekday at 5 p.m. when Kellerman and company pollute television sets across the nation.

Davidson’s wrestling squad had a strong showing this weekend at the UNC Pembroke Classic. The freshman class proved especially productive as three rookies took top honors for the team. Henry Blue, weighing in at a svelte 133 pounds, dominated the competition and finished an impressive second in his group. Blue’s title run was ended only by a stellar performance from UNC Pembroke’s Cory Pickard. Another freshman, Patrick Coman, finished the tourney with a third-place title.As he navigated his way to victory in the fiercely competitive 125-pound weight class, Coman dominated Anderson’s Clyde Pollock (8-2) in his first match but fell in his second to Jordan Henning of Campbell. He battled back to win his next four matches at Pembroke Cl., which included two major decisions and one pin, to finish third in the bracket.

Ronnie Lofrese, also a freshman, rounded out the Davidson assault with a fourth-place finish. Lofrese lost early in the championship bracket but rallied with three victories, entering him into the consolation match. Lofrese fought hard, but his run finally finished with a 3-2 loss to Luke Francis of Catawba.

Also performing well for the Davidson squad was freshman Travis Hunter. Hunter defeated J.P. McDonald 4-0 and Kyle Devlin 2-0 before losing in the quarterfinals of the 125-pound weight class. It took the efforts of Coman to end Hunter’s run, as his teammate handed him a loss in the consolation round, proving the Wildcats’ dominance of the 125-pound weight bracket. Hunter finished in fifth place.

Freshman John Pollak also contributed to the Wildcat effort with three decisive victories in the heavyweight bracket, and freshman Matt Leonard posted two victories in the 141-pound division. Sophomore Brandon Zeigler notched a win at 197 pounds for the Wildcats.

The ‘Cats return to the mats on Thursday, Nov. 21, to compete in their first dual match of the year.

Four football players earn Academic All-District honors

Bergeron tabbed as first-team selection, three others garner second-team honors

Sports Information Press Release

For the second straight year, Davidson defensive lineman Blake Bergeron was selected to the Verizon University Division Academic All-District III Football First Team. Three other Wildcats were honored as second teamers.

Bergeron, a native of Nashville, Tenn., and graduate of Montgomery Bell Academy, is a psychology major and has posted a grade point average of 3.57 through his first six semesters. On the football field this past season, Bergeron started all 10 games, contributing 14 tackles, including two for a loss and one sack. He also recorded an interception against Newberry and recovered a fumble to help Davidson to a 7-3 record and its fifth straight winning season for just the third time in over 100 years of varsity football at the school.

The three Wildcats to make the second team were junior offensive lineman Ken Franklin, sophomore linebacker Brendan Dete, and junior punter Chris Costello.

A native of Cumming, Ga., Franklin started all 10 games at left tackle, protecting the blind side of Davidson’s career passing leader, Paul Nichols. Franklin is an economics major with a 3.70 GPA.

Dete, from Atlanta, Ga., has yet to declare his major but sports a 3.73 GPA. He enjoyed a terrific sophomore season, ranking third on the team in tackles with 64 and second in tackles for loss with 11.5. Dete also recorded five sacks and recovered two fumbles, one of which he returned 82 yards for a touchdown.

An economics major from Solana Beach, Calif., Costello has a GPA of 3.27. For the 2002 season, Costello punted 48 times with a 38.2-yard average — third in the Pioneer Football League — and a long punt of 59 yards. Costello also handled kickoff duties from time to time.

Bergeron, and the rest of the first team, will now be eligible for the national Academic All-America team, which will be announced on Dec. 2. District III is made up of all Division I and I-AA schools in Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia. To be eligible, a player must have a cumulative grade point average of 3.2 in the classroom and be a starter or key reserve on the field.

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS
America's #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips, earn cash, Travel Free
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
110% Best Prices! Florida, Texas.
Book Now and Receive Free Parties and Meals
Campus Reps Wanted! 1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com
Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas,

MOVIE EXTRAS/MODELS NEEDED
Earn up to $150-$450/Day!
No experience necessary
CALL NOW FOR IMMEDIATE EXPOSURE
1-800-814-0277 x1408