By Mike Gicio
Sports Editor

The Davidson volleyball team came into Friday’s battle for second place against the College of Charleston riding a seven-game winning streak. The Wildcats stood at 17-8 overall, and at 10-3 they were only one game behind the Cougars (19-5, 11-2) in the Southern Conference standings. The Cougars, however, were riding a winning streak of their own, which, at thirteen games, was almost twice as long as that of the Wildcats.

The powerful team was not ready to surrender its place behind conference-leading Georgia Southern, and they demonstrated that in the first game of the match. The game was close throughout, with ties at 11, 12, 13, and 14, until the Cougars were able to stage a 6-1 run that helped them pull away for good. They would go on to win 30-25.

The Cougars used the momentum from their first win to jump out to a 6-1 lead in the second game. They led 22-16 before the Wildcats were able to put together a 9-1 run to take the lead at 25-23. From here, the ‘Cats would watch their hopes of winning the match and taking the second-place spot slip out of reach. A strong effort from the College of Charleston helped them take back the lead and eventually take game two, 30-26.

Game three was no contest, as the demoralized ‘Cats put up little resistance while the Cougars won game three 30-19 to complete the sweep. Roberta Quis and Tisha Chapman put forth the best efforts for the ‘Cats, with Quis posting thirteen kills and a .579 attack percentage while Chapman had ten kills of her own.

Commented Rebecca Teichgraeber on the defeat: “Losing this weekend to Charleston was a big disappointment. It shows that we have some hurdles to jump in the tournament if we are looking to win it all.”

On Saturday, against last place The Citadel (6-19, 0-15), the Wildcats rebounded for a big win. They dominated the match, sweeping the Bulldogs 30-17, 30-10, and 30-15. Making the victory at Belk Arena even more enjoyable was the fact that it came on Senior Day. To honor their dedication and achievements throughout four years at Davidson, seniors Kaitlyn Martin, Roberta Quis, and Rebecca Teichgraeber were each given an award.

“Senior day was nice,” Teichgraeber said, “I have grown so much over the past four years as both a player and a person from being a part of such a dynamic group of individuals. It has been an experience I will value and take with me wherever I go.”

Perhaps to prove that they deserved these awards, each senior player came through with a strong performance on the day. Martin played well on defense and tallied four digs and two aces. Quis had the most kills and most service aces for the Wildcats, with fourteen and four, respectively. Teichgraeber led all players with twelve digs. The efforts of the seniors were complemented by those of a freshman, Rachel Gleed, who came through with six putaways and a .714 attack percentage.

The Wildcats, with an 11-4 conference record, are being closely pursued by Furman and Western Carolina. With five games remaining in the regular season, the ‘Cats are looking to finish strong and keep their position in the conference. They also hope to keep up their recent success (eight victories in their last nine games) and continue to gain momentum as they head for the Southern Conference tournament.

Says Gleed, “We have become a winning team as the season has progressed, and it feels good. If we just take one game at a time, and look at these final weeks as an opportunity to ‘put it all out,’ we are up for another winning streak that hopefully will carry us into the NCAA tourney.”

FAMILY CUTS Hair Salon (Under New Management)
704-896-8440
Haircuts - Color - Styling - Perms - Waxing
Open 7 Days a Week
Mon-Fri. 9:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m.
Saturday 9:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.
Sunday 1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.
20121 #C NorthMain St. Cornelius
Cornelius Town Center
Exit 28 (115 and Catawba Ave.)
Located near the Food Lion

Food Lion
Family Cuts
Hwy 115
Town Hall
Exit 28 | Catawba Ave

Retail and Skin Care Products available
10% off all services to Davidson Students
$2.00 OFF HAIRCUT
expires 09/30/02

Stylists: Kim, Ashley, Dana
$5.00 OFF PERM OR COLOR
RETAIL PRODUCTS
expires 09/30/02

20% OFF
expires 08/30/02

Volleyball looks to finish strong headed into season
By Margaret Holt

The volleyball team has an 11-4 conference record, with five games left in the regular season.

Men’s XC places sixth at SoCon
Disappointed with result, team aims to rebound at Greenville
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The beautiful Spanish moss hanging from the mammoth oak trees, the great blue sky accompanied by a cool breeze, and the amazing view of the nearby marshlands were all expected for the setting at Dixie Plantation for the Southern Conference cross-country championships in Charleston, South Carolina, this past weekend. The great expectations of this day, one which had “3 in SoCon,” the team’s goal for the season, circled in red on its respective square on the calendar since April, came crashing down on the men’s cross-country team. For them, the sixth place finish that transcended was nothing but a slap in the face.

Coach Gary Andrew says it best, “Our guys went after it; they raced like men, but it simply wasn’t enough. The competition just beat us today. There’s no other way to put it.”

“Went after it” may not truly express what the ‘Cats did. Senior Brad Becken ran with the lead pack through the two-mile point at a smoldering 9:55 pace. He led the team with an 8k time of 26:04 and placed 23rd overall. The rest of the squad was not far behind, but the damage was already done with most of the competing schools placing their top four if not all five in front of Becken. The competition did to the ‘Cats what the Davidson team had planned to do all season: clump the entire top five in the top twenty.

Junior Greg Scott sprinted past a Furman runner to finish 27th in 26:20, and three Davidson runners then crossed the line consecutively in places 29-31. Freshman Austin Mercadante led the way in 26:26 with junior Chris Schmader not far behind in 26:29, and freshman Jonathan Baker rounding out the scoring in 26:32. Senior co-captains Andrew Schoewe and Jimmy Swansbrough topped off the Davidson seven. It was not a particularly bad day for the runners, but it lacked the breakout races that the squad needed, in hindsight, to compete.

ASU took the team championship with a score of 63, just ahead of Chattanooga (68). Western Carolina (74), ETSU (83), and Furman (99) all finished firmly ahead of Davidson (140). Chattanooga took home the individual crown when Gediminas Banevicius flew past the line in 24:50.

So the squad, perplexed by its poor finish, is left to think about what it must do to join the SoCon competition and earn the respect of the other schools in the future. The ‘Cats had felt they were ready to do just that this week, after surprising many with their 4th place finish in the meet last year.

“We need to start earlier,” Coach Andrew explains. “We trained well this year, but it wasn’t good enough. We’re going to have to run more in the summer, so we can run harder in the fall, and better at Conference. We have to put the time into it.”

High hopes dashed, pride wounded, and mentality left a bit dazed, the runners have a chance to get even in a week and a half at the Regional Championship 10k in Greenville, NC, which will feature many of the same teams. Revenge would be awfully sweet, but not easy in the least.