A LIBERTAS @ DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Wednesday, May 1, 2002
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 25

Enron purchases College’s naming rights for $11 mil
“Davidson” no more following bail-out from CEO of corrupt company
By COLIN EAGAN

In what is perhaps their most monumental decision ever, the Board of Trustees declared in an emergency meeting this afternoon
that Davidson College shall be renamed Enron College. The new title, to be officially instated at the beginning of the
next academic year, comes along with a sorely needed eleven million dollar contribution from Prescott Q. Fluntz, new CEO of
the Enron corporation.

The colossal decision was made in response to the college’s current, grim financial situation, created by the failure to raise
eleven million dollars for down payment on renovations to Chambers. As President Bobby Vagt explained, such a decision would not
have been made were the circumstances anything but dire. “I’m so poor they’ve got my picture on food stamps,” said
Vagt. “It’s bad. I mean don’t tell anyone this, but just yesterday I was doing head spins on a Cheerios
box in front of Goodwill for a piece of Wonder bread.”

Ever altruistic, Enron offered to chip in to the college pot—but at a price. “We as Americans are in a
brave new era of corporate sponsorship,” stated Fluntz. “We have Denver’s Pepsi Center, Baltimore’s Coca-Cola-Burger King-Pizza-Hut-AOL-Time Warner Stadium, and Dallas’
Dunkin’ Donuts International House of Airplanes. Why not Enron College? Enron has taken some hits in the media, Davidson needs
money. This way, Davidson gets to rebuild their little classrooms, and our name is associated with something more positive than
corrupt businessmen cackling as they nuke their employees’ 401K plans. Everyone wins!”

Of course, Vagt did not go to Fluntz without first exhausting a plethora of fund-raising options. To begin with, the
President woke up early one Saturday a.m. to sell Krispy Kreme donuts door to door. Next, he went to Vail
Commons and suggested budget cuts, see Enron, page 2

On, Bats!
Wild bats sent Wildcats fleeing from Little and Watts dorms this Thursday, following an uncannily strategic infestation.

Name Game:
Completion of the sign to new “Enron College” marks just a first step in the name change to become official
in 2002-2003

SGA will implement new Community Beer program
Large, public beer coolers will replace Red Bikes program; fraternities rejoice
By JIMMY SWANSBROUGH
Beer Lover

In a shocking but welcome decision handed down by the Student Government Association and the President’s Office last week, the
unsuccessful Community Bike program will be replaced by an inaugural Community Beer Program. During a conference after last Thursday’s pivotal
meeting to pass the program, SGA President Gray Patterson ’03 cited the unrestrained, consistent destruction of the red bikes each
weekend as cause for the decision.

“The SGA believes that when parties end each weekend and alcohol becomes unavailable, Davidson students must occupy their superior intellects
with something challenging such as the willful destruction of property. With the new Community Beer program,” Patterson stated, “students can
continue suckling on the teat of alcoholism straight

Enraged bat colony takes over Little, Watts
Supersonic bat shrieks drive students from dorms; more attacks may follow
By LINDY BALDWINHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Insane Recluse

In yet another example of science gone horribly awry, an army of super-intelligent bats staged a takeover of Watts and
Little early Thursday morning. The bats, rumored to have been the subjects of various Biology experiments, seem to be regrouping
for further assaults. At press time, the administration refused to confirm or deny tactically sensitive information, but assured students that
they were doing “everything we can” to protect the unoccupied sectors of the campus.

The bats began their attack at 6 am, planning the event so that ROTC would be on the other side
of campus. They swooped into the fourth-floor windows of Little and Watts and proceeded to drive out the human residents.
Hall counselor Frank Jennings ’03 recalled the horrific events of Thursday’s bat assault. “Dude, there were like all these bats,
man. And they were, like, shrieking or something and it made my head want to explode. It might have been
the hangover but I don’t think it was, ‘cause John [Fields ‘05] heard it too and he was totally sober.”

“I believe the bats have developed a sort of super-sonic shriek that is capable of literally liquefying the human brain
in minutes,” Fields, a biology major, explained.

In recent months, the Biology department’s Animal Behavior class has been observing a large colony of bats less than a
mile away from the Davidson campus. While professors insisted that the class’s activities have been totally benign, one anonymous student
suggested otherwise. “We should have listened to that fundamentalist kid who told us to leave this stuff up to God,”
was her only comment.

Within hours of the first wave of attacks, a group of students gathered outside the President’s office to demand immediate
action. “We may have to sacrifice a few dorms, see Bats, page 2 on ‘till morning.”

College President Bobby Vagt appeared equally pleased with the decision. “After most of my daily meetings I’m craving a brewski,
and I don’t doubt my colleagues echo similar sentiments. I feel this new program holds real promise to succeed in
the Davidson community, and I think we’ll witness its academic and social merits right away.”

As a joint operation by the SGA, Union Board, and College Democrats, the Community Beer Program will involve the placement
of 37 giant red coolers around the college campus, beginning next fall. Each cooler will contain six cases of beer,
all of differing brands.

Over half of the community coolers will be placed up the hill around the academic buildings. Five alone will be
installed outside of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Three coolers are dedicated to Little Library, while seven others will be
added during exam weeks. The Union Board will take the largest financial hit with the establishment of the Community Beer
Program.

See Beer, page 2

---

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News Pages 1-3
Patterson Court houses wrap up the year with service projects. Page 2.

Arts and Living Page 4
Complete recap of the Academy Awards ceremony. Pages 7-8.

Perspectives Pages 5-6
A look back at the Andrea Yates trial in Houston. Page 8.

Sports Pages 7-8
Baseball finally gets on track with two weekend wins over UNC Greensboro. Page 12.
