ea THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2002

Offense awakens, defense clamps down in 28-10 win

Davidson (1-1) at Newberry (1-1)
Saturday at 7 p.m.
Setzler Field, Newberry, SC

THE HISTORY: This is the first contest between the two schools since 1985 and just the eighth meeting ever, dating back to 1913. Newberry holds a 5-2 advantage.

THE TEAMS: After Saturday’s 28-10 drubbing of Jacksonville, the Wildcats appear at No. 9 in The Sports Network’s I-AA Mid-Major Top 10 Poll. Wide receiver Mike Chase caught six passes for 106 yards and three touchdowns, while defensive lineman Ryan Tennis had 3.5 sacks and one tackle-for-loss. Both received Pioneer League Player of the Week honors.

The Newberry Indians of the Div. II South Atlantic Conference posted a 35-7 win over North Greenville last week after opening the season with a 48-0 loss to Wofford, a Southern Conference school. Newberry was picked to finish last out of eight teams in the SAC after losing 16 starters off last year’s 4-7 (0-7 conference) team. Against N. Greenville, sophomore QB Brian Shealy threw for three touchdowns, including two to wideout Kendal Brown (171 yards). Tailback Daniel Gray rushed 33 times for 160 yards and a TD.

WHAT TO EXPECT: The Wildcats appear on paper to be more experienced than the young Indians, but playing on the road against an unfamiliar opponent is never a sure bet. If Davidson follows Saturday’s formula—avoid turnovers and win the field position battle—they could escape with a second straight victory.

CATCH THE BUS: The SGA is sponsoring a bus to take students to and from Saturday’s game. The cost is $15 for the bus ride and $10 for a game ticket. The college is located in Newberry, SC, about 90 minutes from Davidson. The bus will leave at 4:30 p.m. and return around 11:30 p.m. Sign up in the Union from 6 to 8 p.m. on Thursday and 1:30 to 3 p.m. on Friday. Contact Kevin Epps ‘03 for more information.

-Matt Garfield

By Mike Gilio
Staff Writer

Revenge is always sweet. After suffering a humiliating defeat to Jacksonville last year, the Davidson football team was committed to emerging victorious in Saturday’s contest. And players do not hesitate to voice their dislike for the Dolphins.

“When I worked out during this last off-season, all I thought about was beating Jacksonville,” says defensive lineman Ryan Tennis. “Basically we just hate them.”

That hatred, combined with a year’s worth of hard work since last year’s disappointment, led to considerably different results this time around. The Wildcats dominated in every aspect of the game, gaining more yards and more first downs in a 28-10 Pioneer League victory.

Said linebacker and defensive captain Jim Carney after the game: “To lose to those guys like we did last year and then come out and play the way we did is a real testament to this team’s character.”

The defense, led by Carney and Tennis, all but shut down the opposing offense. Jacksonville’s lone touchdown came in the second quarter after a blocked punt gave them possession on the Davidson two-yard line, and they managed only three more points on a previous field goal.

Carney had a game-high 15 tackles, including 10 solos. Tennis complemented these numbers on the defensive line with 4.5 tackles for losses and 3.5 sacks, one half sack shy of tying the school’s single-game record. The two combined for a one-two punch that proved nearly impossible for the Dolphin offensive line to keep in check.

The play of the big men up front served as another area where the Wildcatscould boast dominance. The Jacksonville quarterbacks were sacked nine times for a combined loss of 54 yards, while Wildcats’ QB Paul Nichols remained virtually untouched. But sack numbers alone fail to show just how many times the Dolphin backfield was harassed by the Wildcat defense. The biggest hit of the day came when Tennis broke through the pocket and smashed into quarterback Mike Sturgill just after he released a pass, leaving him lying on the field until he was eventually carried off on a stretcher and into an ambulance. Reports on Sturgill’s health were positive, and he is expected to be fine.

Davidson would enjoy similar supremacy on the offensive side of the ball. Halfbacks John Leverett and Christian Hunt ran over the Dolphin defense for 98 and 83 yards, respectively. Meanwhile, Nichols and tight end Mike Chase were busy putting on their own shows. Chase accounted for six of Nichols’s 10 completions to go over 100 yards receiving on the day. Among those catches were all three of Davidson’s touchdowns and a spectacular 38-yard grab in which he reached over a defender, then dragged him down the field.

Commented Nichols on the touchdowns: “Personally, the opportunity to get the ball to Mike Chase in the end zone was special because it had been so long since we connected for a touchdown, and doing it against Jacksonville made it that much better.”

The victory, which extended the Wildcats’ home winning streak to 13, gives the team a solid start to its conference schedule. The next chance comes on Oct. 5, when Davidson hosts Morehead State in its second Pioneer game. “This win was important because it gives us a chance to go out and determine our own destiny within the conference,” Carney remarked. “Now we don’t have to worry about what the other teams are doing.”

Nichols agrees, “The game allowed us to really display our team’s true talent. Our determination was motivated not only by last year’s loss but also by our goal of winning the Pioneer Football League.”

The Wildcats will continue in their quest this Saturday night at 7 p.m. when they take the field at Newberry for a non-conference game. “I think the challenge for next week will be to maintain that level of intensity and not just rest on our laurels,” Tennis predicts. “This win gave us confidence, and that will be the key for this weekend.”

Nichols and the rest of the team are just as focused. “Newberry provides another challenge and opportunity for us to improve as a team,” he says. “We must remember our intensity in practice last week and carry it over in order to win again.”

Davidsonian Player of the Week
Mike Chase ‘03
Position: Tight end
Major: Biology
Hometown: Medina, Ohio

In his second career start since moving from wideout to tight end, Chase caught six passes for 106 yards and three TDs in Saturday’s football win over Jacksonville.

Thursday
Women’s Soccer at Appalachian State 8 p.m.

Friday
Field Hockey at Richmond 4 p.m.

Saturday
Football at Newberry 7 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country at Winthrop Invitational
Men’s Soccer vs. High Point 7 p.m.
Volleyball at Western Carolina 2 p.m.
Golf at Sea Trail Invitational, Sunset Beach, N.C.

Sunday
Field Hockey at Towson 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer at East Tennessee State 2 p.m.
Volleyball at Chattanooga 2 p.m.

Tuesday
Men’s Soccer vs. VMI 4:30 p.m.
Field Hockey at Duke 7:30 p.m.
Volleyball at UNC Greensboro 7 p.m.