The Davidsonian

Women’s track continues to improve on road to SoCon

By Jimmy Swansbrough
Staff Writer

The pieces are coming together for the women’s track and field team as the Conference Championships steadily approach. After a
lax weekend over Easter break, the Wildcats came out in force at the Yellow Jacket Invitational at Georgia Tech University
this past Friday and Saturday.

Junior Liz Gross and freshman Lindley Swartz have displayed consistent improvement over the season, and their times in the 800-meter
and 1500-meter runs reflect this steady progress. The duo competed in the 1500 at the Raleigh Relays over the Easter
Break. Led by sophomore Laura Puckett in 4:54.57, Gross ran solidly in 5:06.34 and Swartz finished in 5:12.69. At Georgia
Tech in the 800-meter, Gross finished in 2:30.92, while Swartz posted a time of 2:36.09. In the 1500-meter run, Gross
dropped her season-best time to 5:05.06, while Swartz followed close behind in 5:08.67. Freshman Sarah Baxter tailed Swartz across the
line in 5:15.84.

Junior Jenny DiCosmo remained resilient in the 100-meter dash, sprinting to a 14.07. In the 400-meter dash, freshman Clarissa Carr
nosed out junior Jana Yee by less than three-tenths of a second to finish in 1:04.44. Yee ran 1:04.90, while
sophomore Kate Wilson finished in 1:09.17.

The field events corps demonstrated its consistency this weekend as well. Sophomore Amanda Yeck leapt to 4.07 meters in the
long jump then tried her hand at the shot put. She threw 7.06 meters, just short of freshman Kim Pierre’s
throw of 8.49 meters. Pierre also competed in the discus throw. She posted a distance of 30.57 meters. And javelin
novice McKensey Gruelle, a sophomore, recorded a throw of 18.48 meters, just a few feet off of her personal best
on the season.

The Wildcat women will compete this weekend in the Furman Invitational in Greenville, South Carolina. The season will culminate in
two weeks at East Tennessee State University in Johnson City, Tenn., where the Southern Conference Championships will prove the best
of 2002.

100-meter dash — Jenny DiCosmo, 14.07
400-meter dash — Clarissa Carr, 1:04.44, Jana Yee, 1:04.90, Kate Wilson, 1:09.17
800-meter run — Liz Gross, 2:30.92, Lindley Swartz, 2:36.09
1500-meter run — Liz Gross, 5:05.06, Lindley Swartz, 5:08.67, Sarah Baxter, 5:15.84
Long Jump — Amanda Yeck, 4.07m
Shot Put — Kim Pierre, 8.49m, Amanda Yeck, 7.06m
Discus — Kim Pierre, 30.57m
Javelin — McKensey Gruelle, 18.48m

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17
8:00 P.M.
CHAMBERS GALLERY
HOSTED BY BOBBY VAGT, President
TOM SHANDLEY, Dean of Students

- RESIDENCE HALLS?
- COLLEGE UNION?
- PATTERSON COURT?
- CHARLOTTE?
- OFF-CAMPUS?
- TRANSPORTATION?

For sale or lease
Live close to college in new, modern units
2BR/2B starts at $800/month
3BR/2B: furnished-$1360/month; unfurnished-$1050
Sale prices start at $96,000
Call David at 704/995-6780

The Wildcats, missing their top players, came back to win three singles matches before eventually falling to the Demon Deacons.
Junior Paul Bevan, junior Eric Beck, and freshman Amartey Amarteifio secured the wins. The club team’s next match is Saturday,
April 20 when Davidson will host UNC-Wilmington.

Crew teams compete at SERCS, finish in top 5

By Luke O’Hara and Andrea Lytle
Crew Team Members

On March 16, the varsity rowers of the Davidson Crew Club competed in the Southeastern Regional Collegiate Sprints (SERCS) regatta
in Elberton, Georgia. A glitch in scheduling meant that they did not have access to a school van to transport
their trailer, boats, and oars to the regatta. Consequently, they had to borrow equipment from the University of Georgia. Despite
this, the Crew persevered with the Varsity Men’s 4+ capturing a bronze medal and the Varsity Women’s 4+ rowing to
a solid fourth-place finish.

Since it started three years ago, SERCS has become a popular tune-up for the spring season because it draws both
area southern schools and several northern schools that are on spring break. “SERCS is the sort of regatta that you
want to begin your season with. It tends to be a small-scaled regatta with easier competition than we see at
later regattas,” junior rower Monica Siegenthaler said. Although the crew benefited from slightly easier competition at SERCS, they...were still at
a disadvantage because they did not have their own boats and equipment. Women’s coxswain Jamie Causey commented on the club’s
resilience, “The varsity women rowed a boat that handled completely differently from the boat that we practiced in. After changing
lineups, the varsity men showed incredible adaptability by medalling in their race.” The varsity men were also upbeat about collecting
the bronze. “I thought SERCS was beginning to a season that I have very high hopes for. We raced strong
and the entire boat was focused on the goal at hand,” said junior rower John Franklin. This year’s team, consisting
of returning varsity rowers Ryan Auster ’03 and Luke O’Hara ’03 as well as Ryan Carvalho ’04, John Franklin ’03,
and coxswain Andrea Lytle ’03 hopes to repeat the success of last year’s varsity men, who made it to a
national regatta. The varsity women are also looking forward to a successful season. They rowed an extremely solid race in
the hotly contested lightweight event. The women finished fourth behind highly competitive boats from Georgia Tech and Tennessee. Causey was
confident about the women’s chances for the rest of this season, “We’re capable of medalling, we just need to figure
out how to apply more pressure and increase our speed at the thousand-meter mark.” Davidson’s varsity women’s team has three
returning varsity rowers, Monica Stopcaiet ’03, Diana varsity coxswain, Jamie Causey ’03, as well as second-semester rower, Rebecca Stickel ’04.
While the crew joked that their situation was ill-fated because of the lack of equipment and a striking ability to
get lost multiple times in the small town of Elberton, GA, the rowers focused and fought hard during their races.
This has become standard practice for the self-coached, economically independent club. As Franklin put it, “Beating big schools like UGA,
Auburn, Alabama and Emory always feels good. We beat UGA in one of their own boats.” Regattas like these explain
why Davidson Crew Club is quickly becoming respected by competitive rowing schools throughout the southeast.

Gallagher surprises in golf
By Mark Pustay
Staff Writer

The Davidson College golf team continued their late season push toward the Southern Conference Tournament with a fourth place finish
at the Lonnie D. Small Intercollegiate in Buies Creek last weekend. Elon College won the event with a 577, placing
them one-stroke ahead of second-place and tournament host Campbell. Tom Schupp of Charleston Southern took overall medallist honors, with Campbell’s
Simon Dunn second and Elon’s J.D. Mitchell third. Davidson finished six strokes ahead of Southern Conference rival Appalachian State, a
good sign for this young Wildcat squad. The ’Cats were paced by the surprising play of freshman Peyton Gallagher, who
was participating in his first career collegiate tournament. Gallagher’s 151 (76-75) was good enough to place 18th among all finishers.
Gallagher’s strong finish led a consistent Wildcat effort throughout the lineup. Junior Ben Friedell and freshman Joe Zimmerman tied for
20th place with 153 each. Freshman Dan Walker and sophomore Jon Kropski were not far behind, firing two-day totals of
154 and 159, respectively. “The final round was one of our stronger showings of the spring,” Friedell remarked. “We shot
three hundred and beat the teams we were paired with, which was our goal going into the last day. It
was also one of the stronger team totals of the day, and a bright spot leading into the Wofford Invitational
this week.” Coach Tim Straub shared Friedell’s sentiments. “I was very pleased with our performance,” he said. “We played very
consistent in the second round. Peyton Gallagher played very well for his first college tournament. I am pleased with the
progress the team is making.” With the team’s recent improvement, everyone on the team is looking forward to the rest
of the season. Coach Straub notes that the team plays “this weekend in a very strong tournament at Wofford.” The
field at Wofford includes some tough programs, such as Virginia, Maryland, Central Florida, and East Carolina. With another strong finish
this weekend, the team will be in top form to contend for the Southern Conference title in Greenville, SC, April
19-21.
