Davidson COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2002

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 10

Survey examines parallels

between race and major

How does diversity affect our academic experience?

By ROSIE PRICK
Staff Writer

Davidson is historically successful at keeping certain institutional statistics low. GPAs are one. The percentage of minority students on campus is another.

For many, it’s a perennial and frustrating conclusion: Davidson lacks diversity, and incomplete diversity means an incomplete college experience. Many point out how the lack of diversity on campus hinders our learning. And yet how many ask how the diversity we do have enhances it?

A survey recently conducted on campus investigated the intricacies of diversity, specifically with respect to majors. How does the diversity of our institution reflect the diversity across majors? Which majors are disadvantaged? And which are enriched?

The survey, which was distributed to approximately half of the student body by political science professor Dr. Pat Sellers’s Public Opinion class, included 52 questions on a range of issues, including those concerning students’ race and their majors. When the survey data is compared to similar data obtained from Davidson’s Office of Institutional Research regarding the class of 2002, certain patterns emerge, perhaps hinting at a correlation between race and major.

Out of 458 people in the graduating class of 2002, there were 69 minority students. Four departments graduated no minority majors: Classics, German, Philosophy, and Theatre. Anthropology and Sociology had the highest percentage of minority graduates with 42.9 and 41.7 percent respectively. Minorities made up less than 10 percent of the graduates in English, the largest department on campus. Data courtesy of Dr. Laura Boyles, Office of Institutional Research.

Looking at individual departments yields interesting results. The philosophy department, for example, graduated seven majors this spring, all of them white males. The campus-wide survey drew responses from five Philosophy majors, all white. This congruity might well be attributed to coincidence, but the numbers become more interesting when compared.

see Poll, page 3

Players from Rusk, Connor, Warner Hall, Kappa Sig, SAE, KA, and CoHo joined faculty and staff to make up about 10 teams whose efforts raised around $1,000. The money will be used to purchase the sheet rock for the habitat house. The event was organized by Rusk service chairs Elizabeth Devlin and Katie Meyer and Kappa Sig chair John Elliott.

Final Answer: Rob Neuman ‘04, Joe Palatinus ‘05, Ryan Kinney ‘03, and Sam Weathers ‘03 represent Phi Gamma Delta in the Quiz Bowl tournament. The double-elimination competition will continue into December.

RLO clarifies housing lottery rules at SGA meeting

Marsicano explains current method vs. ‘pure lottery’

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

If you weren’t on campus last spring, or simply didn’t hear the commotion, some of the class of 2003 had a rude awakening when they discovered that the allocation of Martin Court apartments is not done by a “pure” lottery.

Due to an unclear explanation of the RLO process, a number of rising seniors were not given their top choice for housing in the Martin Court apartments, more commonly known as the senior apartments, even though their lottery numbers were high enough for this to happen in a “pure” lottery.

However, RLO does not use a “pure” lottery — that is, a lottery system that depends entirely on the lottery numbers randomly assigned to students. The senior apartments are assigned to a “real-world atmosphere” — meaning that no building on Martin Court may be mostly of a single gender or mostly from a single Patterson Court organization.

While variety takes top priority, RLO also looks at the “patterns of behavior” of students in assigning them to apartments. For example, if a student has a record of dorm vandalism or multiple noise violations, he or she would likely not be placed in close proximity to a student who has a history of noise complaints.

Senator Susanne Francis ’03 invited Dean Leslie Marsicano and Leslie Urban to address the issues that were raised by student senators at the Oct. 30 meeting.

Marsicano said that a new, clearer explanation of the assignment rules and methods for Martin Court had been created to clear up the issues for the class of 2004. Marsicano and Urban debated with students for much of the meeting about the merits of having a “pure” lottery versus the current method.

Marsicano explained that only about five percent of students did not get their first apartment choice due to behavioral patterns, which was originally the main topic of concern for the senators. Using this statistic, she explained that switching to a “pure” lottery would make it worse for the other 95 percent of students, and that the people who would gain from this system are those who cause the most trouble for RLO.

see RLO, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

www.apple.com/trailers/columbia
Punch-Drunk Love reviewed. Page 5.

News 1-4
BSC hosts intercultural dating discussion. Story page 2.

Arts & Living 5-6
What’s on TV? Story page 5.

Perspectives 7-8
What's next for the GOP? Story page 8.

Sports 9-12
What’s going on with the football scoreboard? Story page 10.