Van, from page 1

Students under age 21 were cited for underage consumption of alcohol on a moving vehicle, while those over 21 received
citations for having open containers on a vehicle. Some of the citations carried $115 fines.

“I think it’s important to stress it was a one-time incident,” said Patterson. “We’ve moved past that. We set stricter
and clearer guidelines, so it shouldn’t be a problem anymore.”

College President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley approved the SGA’s proposals on Monday afternoon, paving the way
for the van’s return on Thursday at its usual 8 p.m. starting time.

“I think the SGA response is very responsible,” said Shandley. “When implemented and if followed, it should alleviate the problems
that occurred last week and restore it to the reliable and safe service it is intended to be.”

Davidson Town Police Chief John Kearin said he is pleased that alcohol is now explicitly banned from the van, and
will not instruct his officers to pay it any special attention.

New Operating Procedures for the Vamanos Van

“As long as it doesn’t violate any traffic laws, we’re not going to stop it,” said Kearin.

Freshman SGA Senator Walker Saik took over supervision of the Vamanos Van program last week, replacing senior Kevin Epps. Epps,
who ran the program for five semesters since his sophomore year, had planned to hand the program over to a
younger student before the Sept. 21 traffic stop. He was on board that night, but did not receive a citation.

As Chairman of the Rides Committee, Saik will work with Patterson Court houses to supply volunteer drivers every weekend on
a rotating basis. This week, the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity is in charge. The van runs Thursdays through Saturdays from
8 p.m. to 2 a.m. and carries up to 14 students anywhere between Exits 25 and 36 on I-77.

“It’s going to be much more difficult to handle than it was two weeks ago, but once it gets back
on its feet, I think it will be just as smooth as it was in the past,” said Saik.

The following guidelines were devised by SGA President Gray Patterson and approved by President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students
Tom Shandley on Tuesday. They will be posted on the van.

1. No alcohol is allowed on the van, in open or closed containers.
2. It is the driver’s responsibility to monitor that no alcohol is allowed on the van.
3. A student will be held liable under the Code of Responsibility for breaking any of the state and College
policies regarding the possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
4. If the driver runs into problems with students not obeying regulations, he or she is to pull over immediately
and contact Public Safety for assistance.
5. If the problem requires such, the driver will immediately return to the campus and clear the van.
6. A Public Safety employee will be responsible for certifying new drivers and will stress these new procedures in the
certification process.
7. The Rides Committee chairman will be responsible for the scheduling of drivers each semester, and will make sure the
operation of the service is uninterrupted.

For acceptance to one-to-one academic advising, apply by March 1. For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-616-7740.

“I want to become a doctor.” The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records for
the best medical schools by giving them the personal attention, necessary science and math courses, and support they need to
pursue their dream of being a doctor.For medical school.

* Senators debate town-gown relations, Vamonos Van policy

Mayor Randy Kincaid speaks with students

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

On Sept. 26, SGA met to hear from town mayor Randy Kincaid and to discuss various issues, most notably SGA’s
involvement in solving the Vamanos Van crisis. Mayor Kincaid, who was once a professor at Davidson, addressed several questions directly
to the senators. He was interested in learning how Davidson students interact with the town, if at all. Kincaid also
asked for ways that the town of Davidson had disappointed Davidson College students, and if any students had been frustrated
in their attempts to work with the town. He proceeded to ask if any of those present had ever been
in trouble with the town of Davidson, and concluded by inquiring what Davidson students think the town is known for.

After receiving scattered answers to these questions, the mayor continued by listing ways that the town and its relationship with
the College has changed since the 1960s. Generally, he described the College’s increasing disconnection with the town since that decade.
Kincaid concluded his statements by saying that the new union on campus, though a beautiful facility, was the final move
of the school to completely isolate itself from the town. Until the Knobloch Campus Center opened, students had to venture
across Main Street occasionally to check their mail at the town’s post office; now, even this minor connection has been
broken as well.

After his speech, Kincaid opened the floor for questions. SGA President Gray Patterson ’03 asked if the town police had
been specifically targeting Davidson students. After the meeting, Patterson explained that many students’ cars have been stopped in what appear
to be “blind searches for open containers.” Patterson was unsure whether or not the police officers are behaving in a
reactionary manner, or if this apparent profiling is the result of assumptions about the irresponsibility of college students. Kincaid explained
that there is a fairly new police chief in town who hails from Los Angeles. Kincaid skirted the issue of
why the police chief appears to be profiling Davidson students, but said that he was certainly a stricter personality on
the force and was likely behind the increased number of traffic stops.

Senator Erskine Wells ’03 countered Kincaid’s comment on the disconnecting influence of the union by pointing out that the union
is a great place for members of the community to come and interact with college students. Kincaid agreed, and explained
that he had not meant to criticize the Union. After the meeting, Patterson voiced his agreement with Wells’s statement, and
pointed out the great numbers of townspeople who showed up at the open-mic event on Sept. 11, 2002 and at
the Staley lectures by Dr. John Polkinghome.

Other senators asked if there were any specific things students could do to better the relationship between the town and
the college. Kincaid responded that patronization of the local shops would be the biggest help to the townspeople. Other senators
offered praise for the maintenance of the “quaint,” small-town atmosphere that the Town Council has worked hard to maintain.

After Kincaid left, SGA began discussion of other important topics relating to the student body. Of these issues, that of
last weekend’s Vamanos Van incident was the most hotly discussed. Kevin Epps ’03, who was the senator most heavily involved
in the continuation of the Vamanos Van program, apologized and relinquished his control to first-year senator Walker Saik.
