Erikson scores overtime goal to lift ‘Cats over Virginia Tech

By Justin NEILL
Staff Writer

In a season that began with tough losses against strong teams, coach Kevin Hundley’s women’s soccer team at first struggled
to find positive points during a frustrating stretch in which the team dropped games against non-conference opponents Charlotte, South Carolina,
Wake Forest, St. Louis, and Wisconsin. And while the true strength of those opponents has begun to show as they
play out their conference schedules (as of October 6, they were a combined 43-12-4), the ‘Cats have salvaged their record,
going undefeated since September 15.

This successful run was put on the line Friday at home against the Virginia Tech Hokies of the Big East
conference, when it became evident early that the ‘Cats were going to have to work to earn their first non-conference
victory. Tech took 12 shots in the first half and held a 1-0 lead, thanks to Jessica Myers’s breakaway goal
in the 20th minute. Heather Maloney, last week’s SoCon player of the week, who is in hot pursuit of the
Davidson career goals record, evened the score towards the end of the half. She scored her seventh goal of the
season and the 34th of her career on a corner kick.

Davidson came out much stronger defensively in the second half and limited the Hokies to only three shots on goal,
but the Wildcat offense managed only four shots themselves and could not convert any opportunities. Sarah Hobart added two difficult
saves in the second half (after seven in the first half) to preserve the tie.

In overtime, the Wildcats’ positive momentum continued as junior Denielle Erikson converted their third shot of the period after 4:37
of play to seize a 2-1 win. With the victory, the Wildcats are now .500 for the first time this
season.

The ‘Cats have an opportunity to earn another non-conference win and boast a winning record on Wednesday, when they travel
to Elon. The team then resumes its conference schedule with crucial games at the College of Charleston and Georgia Southern
on Saturday and Monday. The Wildcats play their next home game on Thursday, October 17, when they host non-conference foe
High Point.should-consider Army-ROTC. 1s a: ‘: wreaepecotesec ttt deve ron t 2 * ae - “3 a “# first rion
-conllinidtice victonty with tournament perfo ; By Brent McCormick * Davidson offense took Special Contributor The Davidson Roller Hockey Team
laced up the skates last weekend for its first collegiate tournament of the season. With a roster consisting of mainly
underclassmen and less than ten players, the young squad was written off as a heavy underdog for the tournament. Things
started out poorly for the ‘Cats, as the team dropped its first contest to a strong UNC Charlotte team, 12-2.
Senior captain Ryan Auster notched both goals. The second game of the evening, against Clemson, showcased Davidson’s potent scoring abilities.
Playing with just one substitute for the entire 45-minute game, the Wildcats came out in a fury, netting several goals
in the first few minutes. Led by Auster, the control of the game early, peppering the Clemson net-minder with shot
upon shot. “I took a nap in the parking lot between games, so I came out well rested for the
second game,” said junior defenseman Josh Voorhees. Despite a double-digit scoring performance with the inclusion of three goals by McCormick
and one by Auster, Davidson struggled defensively late in the game, which resulted in a 12-10 loss. The final game
of the tournament found the Wildcats once again playing UNC Charlotte. In this game, however, the roles were reversed. The
team took a cue from Voorhees and came out flying. The Wildcats out-muscled, out-skated, and outworked the cocky UNC Charlotte
squad. After two periods, Davidson led the game by a score of 6-4, due to the brilliant playmaking of McCormick
and Connolly, who had each posted a hat trick. The ‘Cats had UNCC on the ropes, much to the surprise
of the 49ers’ twenty-man roster, back-up goalie, head coach, managers, and statistician. “We had them where we wanted them,” said
rookie goalie sensation Kenner, “but I think their coach’s inspirational pep talk between periods gave them the drive to win.”
Davidson was clearly the better team, but they lacked the stamina, due to having just five skaters, to sustain their
potent threat. UNCC scored several unanswered goals late in the third period, and held on for a 12-6 victory. Following
the loss, self-proclaimed tournament MVP Voorhees brilliantly commented, “The only reason we lost is because, at the end of the
game, we had fewer goals than they did.” Although it was posted as a loss, last weekend’s tournament was a
big step forward for the young, undermanned, Wildcat squad.

Temple Owls prove too much for field hockey By Becca McDevitt Staff Writer On Saturday, the Davidson field hockey team
faced the Temple Owls in what would prove to be an exciting event. Despite the team’s strong performance throughout the
game, the ‘Cats were unable to come away with a victory, losing 2-1 in overtime. During the first half, Temple
had many offensive opportunities to score, but the Davidson defense denied them access to their house. Kathleen Fenn, Courtney Hughes,
and goalie Sarah Nolan led the Cats with their play in the backfield. With 18:36 remaining in the game, however,
the Owls’ Rachel Barber scored an unassisted goal to put Temple on top. The Wildcats responded six minutes later, when
Tiffany Homan answered with her first goal of the season to force a tie that would push the game into
overtime. Five minutes into the overtime, the Owls capitalized on an offensive opportunity. Morgan Faria received a pass from Andrea
Duva and pushed the ball past Nolan and the defensive unit. Faria’s winning goal gave Temple their third consecutive win.
Temple dominated the majority of the game, holding Davidson to only four shots. Meanwhile, Temple’s offensive unit was able to
take 26 shots on Nolan, who had an extraordinary performance with 11 saves. Erin Conroy made 2 saves for Temple.
The ‘Cats stand at 5-6 overall after the defeat, while the Owls improved to 4-6. The Wildcats take to the
road Wednesday, Oct. 9, to face Wake Forest, the number three team in the nation. The game will begin at
7 p.m. in Winston-Salem, N.C.

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele - Sophomore Tiffany Homan scored her first goal of the season on Saturday, pushing the game
into overtime.
