‘From The Sideline

Patriotism vs. Profits
By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

With this new year, more than most in recent memory, came all the clichés of resolutions, renewal, and rebirth. For
many, though, last September 11’s tragedy triggered spontaneous self-makeovers unrivaled by any “new you for a new year” six-page spread.
But like the best-laid plans, the best-intentioned resolutions often fall away. The red, white, and blue tide that swept across
the nation in the last four months seems, finally, to be turning. Now that the “United We Stand” and “God
Bless America” t-shirts are 40% off, will NBC’s patriotic peacock fly the coop?

Since that smoky September day, the stars and stripes have flown bravely over Ground Zero, the Pentagon crash site...and almost
every network logo. As NBC counts down to the Mormon Olympics, its star-spangled symbol sits on top of the five
most expensive rings in the country, fueling executive dreams of reclaiming advertising revenue lost in the 24/7 news coverage of
the terrorist attacks. But will America rally around its Olympic team? Most Olympic events, including the opening ceremony, are still
wide open for ticket sales, just ten days before the glass cauldron is set to ignite. And while Olympic fever
is certainly to infect at least college students eager to support any patriotic cause in the name of procrastination, it
is difficult to engage consumers in sports they only hear of twice a decade. Excepting, of course, the eBay bidders
paying upwards of $2,000 dollars and up to $6,000 for torches used in the recent pre-Games relay.

Even homeland security is working against the homeland promoters. “Entertainment Tonight” exposés on the hundreds of snipers that will man
the slopes are somehow less than reassuring. Congress allocated more than $17 million “for security equipment and infrastructure related to
the 2002 Winter Olympics.” A Jan. 11 New York Times article estimates Washington’s total tab will be closer to $250
million, including the Secret Service and FBI agents involved—a sum dwarfed only by the $545 million NBC paid for the
S.L.C TV rights. With opening ceremony tickets available for a mere $885, it’s hard to buy Neil Diamond and Melissa
Etheridge’s pitch that “they’re coming to America.” They—the athletes, audience, and advertisers (at $600,000 per 30-second prime time spot)—are coming
to a custom-built winter wonderland—a snow globe surrounded by both spectators and snipers. Not that there’s anything wrong with that.

Matt Whited

Meghan Bryant '04 goes up for two against an East Tennessee State defender. Bryant added 22 points to the Wildcats’
record-tying score of 103 over the Lady Bucs.

With a record-high score, women’s hoops roll through conference
By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

A “young team beginning to come together,” as sophomore forward Courtney Laird describes it, the Davidson women’s basketball team is
learning how to flex its muscles, and becoming more comfortable in doing so. The Wildcats split this past week’s conference
play as they soared over East Tennessee State on Tuesday, barely lost to College of Charleston Saturday afternoon, and soundly
defeated Western Carolina.

East Tennessee State
In the highest scoring game for any women’s basketball team at Davidson, the 'Cats pounced on the Lady Bucs and
never looked back, trouncing them, 103-88. The Wildcats shot an unbelievable 80.8% from the floor and 90% from the three-point
range in the first half. According to Laird, “we were all in sync, and on fire.” Best encapsulating their perfect
chemistry was the one-two-three transition play in the middle of the first half: senior guard Janna Magette grabbed the defensive
rebound, took two outlet dribbles and launched the ball up court to sophomore point guard Lindsay Shade, who immediately made
a perfect touch pass to Laird for the easy lay-up. Sophomore point guard Ashley Hallsted led the ’Cats in the
first half with nice penetration, kick-outs, steals, and key baskets. Fellow sophomore Meghan Bryant continued her stellar play from the
earlier Georgia Southern game, snagging a career-best 17 rebounds, and forcefully dominating the paint both offensively and defensively.Defensively. Not to
go unnoticed was the team’s leading scorer Janna Magette’s three-point shootout with Lady Bucs hot shooter Ashley Reed. In four
back-to-back first half offensive sequences for the ’Cats and Bucs, Magette and Reed swished three after three. Reed finally missed
on her third trip down, only to be answered once again by Magette. Overall, Hallsted led the cat pack with
a career-best 26 points, followed by Bryant, Magette, and Bethany Schott, with 22, 19, and 16 points respectively. According to
senior Kelly Copland, this game “was a great display of what our offense is capable of when so many players
can step up at different times.”

College of Charleston

Coming off the high from the ETSU win, the Wildcats suffered a frustrating loss to conference rival College of Charleston
70-67 this past Saturday. “We started off the game really well and got to an early lead, but then we
started to miss and we just got frazzled. We didn’t capitalize on our momentum.” Sophomore Lindsay Shade’s words tell all
too well the story of the game for the ’Cats. Davidson burst ahead at the beginning of the game with
a three-point basket by sophomore point guard Ashley Hallsted, and continued to shoot well for most of the first half.
Though the team went into the locker room up by one point, the Wildcats “got out of rhythm” in the
second half, according to freshman guard Janelle Fassbender. Davidson turned the ball over an excruciating 28 times in the game,
mostly in the second half. The turnovers “interrupted the flow of the game for us,” remarked sophomore forward Courtney Laird.
Shooting percentage improved somewhat in the second half for the ’Cats, but, as Shade observed, turnovers and the inability to
“make a run at the end,” proved too much. “There were two huge possessions where we were down by one
point with about three minutes to go. We could have taken the lead, but we turned the ball over both
times; we just didn’t take advantage of the situation.” Leading scorers for Davidson were Meghan Bryant, with 21 points, and
Janna Magette with 16; Becky Wollenburg and Jennifer Harper led the way for the Cougars. As the Wildcats get ready
for their next conference opponent, Laird says the girls are trying to focus on putting “offense and defense together. We
have great offense nights, and then horrible defense. Then we have great defense, and bad offense.”

Western Carolina

In a convincing blowout, the Wildcats trampled over the Lady Mountaineers 83-59 Monday night in Belk Arena. Davidson scored the
first basket in the opening 20 seconds and never lost the lead. Their stifling defense and offensive electricity in the
first ten minutes allowed them to slowly widen the gap. However, the Mountaineers were bailed out by careless Wildcat fouls,
sending starting point guard Ashley Hallsted to the bench early in the game with two fouls, and several Mountaineer players
to the charity stripe for some easy buckets. Nevertheless, free throws alone could not sustain Western, particularly against senior guard
Janna Magette’s five three-pointers, nineteen points, and astonishing hustle—all in the first half. “Janna was absolutely amazing in the first
half; she put on her own show,” said sophomore point guard Lindsay Shade. The ’Cats entered the locker room at
halftime up 44-22 and never looked back. Again, Davidson scored a quick first basket, and continued to increase their lead
with perfect execution on both ends of the court. Western was able to snip the lead to twenty points with
ten minutes left, but a beautiful baseline jumper from sophomore forward Courtney Laird on the next trip down the court
ended any chances of a Mountaineer run. As senior forward Bethany Schott raved, “It was incredible to have such a
complete team effort. I know that if people continue to step up and contribute, we will be hard to beat.”
Sophomore guard Robyn Flewelling agreed with Schott, “You know it is a great night when all four of our posts
hit a three.” The Wildcats are back in action in Belk Arena this Thursday against Gardner-Webb University at 7 p.m.
