VoLUME 94, NUMBER 7

Photo by Eron Ear Thiele | Students, including Kate Fiedler ‘03 and Emily Metzloff ‘03, attended Monday’s vigil for peace on the Town Green.

Peace vigil draws crowd, sets tone for war debates
By Ros Heprick
Staff Writer

It is a cold night on the Davidson Town Green. The grass is still wet from a recent rain, and the dark clouds that brought the weather lighten and drift silently away. This blanket of clouds prevents most starlight from illuminating the town, and the moon is reduced to a faint blur in the sky.

A single candle is lit. The flame is passed from one wick to another, and then to another, until a warming orange glow enshrouds the silent plot of grass. With this glow, the crowd that has assembled here on this cold October night becomes visible. This group of nearly 80 has gathered tonight in vigil to reflect and to pray for peace as the threat of violent conflict between the United States and Iraq becomes more and more real. Concerned citizens of the Davidson community have united to explore passive alternatives to the United States government’s promise of war.

Marcia Webster, Director of the Davidson Housing Coalition, became concerned when she noticed overwhelming support for the war on television. In response, she collaborated with Kathy Beach-Verhey, the Associate Pastor of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, to create this forum for meditation and discussion.

The gathering, which drew not only students but also college faculty and townspeople as well, featured several speakers who read passages supporting the pacifist cause. These speakers included Davidson professor Malcolm Campbell, Kendall Stewart ‘03, Catholic Chaplain Barb Bagnall, Presbyterian Chaplain Rob Spach, and other members of the Davidson community.

But are vigils such as this one effective ways of spreading the word of nonviolence to our college? Is the spirit of pacifism alive in the minds and hearts of the student body? Many would say that it is not, due to the rather conservative inclinations of our population. The fact

See Vigil, page 3

Amherst player sues College, McKillop over recruiting
Former recruit claims head coach reneged on 2001 scholarship offer
By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

A former men’s basketball recruit claims Davidson head coach Bob McKillop lied to him about a scholarship offer—ruining his dream of playing at the Division I level and costing him thousands in tuition money—in a lawsuit filed last month in New Jersey.

John Bedford, a 6-3 freshman guard currently enrolled at Amherst College in Amherst, Mass., accuses the coach of fraud and breach of contract—and seeks compensation for a scholarship he once thought was his. According to Bedford’s attorney, the NCAA is investigating the matter. Davidson and NCAA officials would not confirm that. McKillop and College President Bobby Vagt declined to comment on the allegations, issuing only a written statement on behalf of the school.

“We can confirm that the College and Coach McKillop have been sued in New Jersey by a young man who was not admitted to Davidson,” it said. “From what we can tell, his lawyer seems most interested in publicizing the lawsuit. Our efforts will be confined to dealing with the issues in court.”

The suit filed in Bergen County Superior Court alleges that McKillop and his assistant coaches aggressively recruited Bedford beginning in his sophomore year of high school in 1998, ultimately promising him in a letter a full four-year basketball scholarship worth $125,000, which Bedford and his parents verbally accepted. They claim there was no mention of the offer being contingent on acceptance by the admissions office, citing an excerpt from one of McKillop’s letters. “Whether it is his performance on the court, his credentials in the classroom orHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Just the way he carries himself, John appears to have a consistent quest for excellence,” wrote the coach. “In my judgment, he has the complete package. I want to reaffirm my own personal commitment. I’ve told John that he has a full scholarship to Davidson College, and now I have put it in writing.”

Bedford claims McKillop revoked the offer in October 2001 of his senior year, asserting that his application wasn’t sufficient for admission into the school. Instead, Bedford alleges, the coach had found other players he liked better. And by that time, it was too late for Bedford to accept a scholarship to play at another school. Bedford received an acceptance letter from Amherst, a Division III school that does not offer basketball scholarships, in April 2002—one month before being officially turned down by the Davidson admissions office. He enrolled at Amherst this fall, and on Sept. 26, Bedford and his family filed the suit.

“This is a matter of potential national importance,” said Sean Callagy, the Montvale, N.J., attorney who represents Bedford and his parents, John and Rita Driscoll. “One of the goals of my client is that this won’t happen to other kids...to make sure students aren’t treated in a similar manner to the way John was treated.” The attorney said it was puzzling that Bedford’s credentials were good enough for acceptance into Amherst, ranked by U.S. News & World Report as the nation’s top liberal arts college, but not Davidson, which this year is ninth in the rankings. “We intend to prove that was a pretext for the real reason, which was that the coach found a different player,” said Callagy. “We're very interested in comparing John’s grades to those on the basketball team.” Bedford was an honor-roll student at Bergen Catholic High, then at Lawrenceville Prep, a private boarding school to which he transferred during his junior year.

Senior senator questions Libertas funding requests
AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

On Thursday, Oct. 10, SGA met as usual to discuss a variety of issues affecting students. However, the meeting quickly turned into an animated discussion over the allocation of ATC funds to Libertas, one of the college’s student-run publications. The Activities Tax Council (ATC) is in charge of allocating a certain percentage of student tuition to student organizations each semester. Before money can be distributed to these organizations, the budget must be approved by SGA. The ATC proposed a budget to SGA during the Oct. 3 meeting, but the vote was delayed due to senators’ concerns over the cost of a computer that Libertas requested. ATC Vice-Chair Amanda Mildner ’03 returned to the SGA body on Oct. 10 to explain that it is the school’s policy that all computers for student organizations be bought through ITS. Although the policy forces organizations to pay higher than normal costs for computers, the benefits include speedy repairs on the machines and insurance by the school. While most senators expressed concern over the cost of the machine, SGA Senator and Senior Class President Kevin Epps ’03 said that he did not feel that Libertas should get a new computer at all. He explained his position by saying, among other things, that Libertas does not advertise and “it’s liberal and no one reads it.” Mildner and several senators quickly rebutted.

See Libertas, page 3

---

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Photo by Chris Keane, Special Contributor
Senior Jim Carney (left) had 1.5 sacks at Valparaiso on Saturday. See story on page 12.

News
Women celebrate 25 years on Patterson Court. Stories on pages 2, 4.

Arts & Living
Brickhouse Tavern reviewed. Story on page 5.

Perspectives
The UN is indispensable. Story on page 8.

Sports
Football beats Valparaiso, 49-32. Story on page 12.