BETIS EE POY Pizza, from page 1

and pay the state and federal government its due. Others may simply be hoping that the IRS doesn’t come snooping
around asking many questions. For Davidson, "we don’t want to open that Pandora’s box with the IRS.”

After much thought, Patterson and Terry came to the conclusion that having pizza delivered to dorms is much similar to
the once-a-month deliveries to the vending machines. “In that regard, Domino's is really just another vending machine on campus. It
just happens to be a human one,” Terry explained.

Another financial concern that plagued the progress was the concept of a commission. Patterson explained that the college loses money
every time a student uses his or her CatCard to purchase food that was not originally acquired by the college.
Whenever a student places declining balance money on a CatCard, the money officially becomes the school’s money. Subsequently, when food
is purchased at the Union Café, the school essentially buys food for that student. In this scenario, the college does
not lose money. However, if a student uses his declining balance to pay for delivery pizza, the school does lose
money because it is buying extra, non-budgeted food. To compensate for this loss, it is necessary to negotiate a set
commission that the pizza company would pay the school per pizza delivered.

The second process-delaying question came up in discussion: Which pizza company do students prefer? The choices were narrowed to Papa
John’s and Domino’s, and much debate ensued in SGA meetings and on the Online Forum. Eventually, the Papa John’s supporters
appeared to dominate, and the partnership opportunity was offered to that business. However, Papa John’s repeatedly failed to return phone
calls; conversely, Domino’s appeared quite eager to strike a deal with the college. Patterson explained that there was concern over
whether the hard-core Papa John’s fans would convert to Domino’s or would simply refuse to purchase off-campus pizza. SGA hypothesized
that students will not likely be deterred from buying pizza with their CatCards just because Domino’s was the chosen place
of business.

Once this decision was made, business discussions were initiated with Domino’s. Members of SGA met with the Domino’s manager on
Wednesday, February 6 and worked out preliminary plans for a business contract. Domino’s has made a request for advertising access
to the dorms on campus, which has tentatively been agreed to by Dean Marsicano of RLO. Advertising is not normally
allowed in the dorms for safety reasons, but a once-a-month flier, to be distributed by Hall Counselors and Resident Advisors,
may be allowed. President Vagt and Dean Shandley (who were out of town at the time) must approve the proposal
first.

The school’s lawyers were employed to draw up specific contracts between Davidson College and Domino’s. If all goes well, the
deal will be sealed within the next couple of weeks. However, it is not yet a done deal. “We [the
school and Domino’s] have agreed on some of the major components of the contract, but it is still conceivable that
we could run into some other deal breakers when we get into the details of how this will work,” Terry
explained.

If the deal is indeed concluded within the next few weeks, students may call Domino’s for delivery pizza, as well
as anything else that the business offers for delivery. The person who takes the orders will ask for the student’s
CatCard number (usually the Social Security number), and will print a receipt for the student to sign upon delivery. According
to Patterson, if students respond positively to this impending use of CatCards to purchase off-campus food, the “CatCard partnerships” may
be extended to other businesses that wouldbe willing to deliver as well. Patterson calls the college’s potential partnership with Domino’s
a “big breakthrough” in that the community will become more involved in student life on campus.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2002

Epps, others call for reinstatement by Fall 2001
By Jessica MERING
Editor in Chief

The future of the Outpost is currently uncertain but some are working hard to reinstate it as a late-night eating
place. A group of five students, led by SGA Senator Kevin Epps '03, started circulating petitions on Thursday that ask
for the administration to reopen the Outpost next fall. Epps, Joey Harris '02, Charles Washington '04, Chris Pratt-Dannals '05, and
Scott Ferguson '05 are going door-to-door in an effort to accumulate at least 1200 signatures.

“The goal of this petition is to make sure the goal [of reopening the Outpost] is not forgotten,” said Epps.
The petition calls for the Outpost to reopen and cites the importance of having a place on the Court that
is not affiliated with any one house, where students can socialize. It also suggests that reopening the Outpost “would decrease
the likelihood of drunk driving to off-campus eateries.”

The administration has been noncommittal about the reopening of the Outpost. At last month’s forum on social life, President Bobby
Vagt told students that the Outpost would not reopen this year. Its future, he said, is still undecided. While the
Outpost’s reopening is not definitively out of the question, other uses for the building are being considered. Currently, the Davidson
International Association is undergoing a trial year in the house. Other options include using the building to house existing Court
members during their houses’ renovations and the eventual establishment of a fifth women’s eating house.

Vagt has also reminded students that the new Union Café is open late on weekend nights and is designed to
meet the needs the Outpost previously served. Epps disagrees that a late-night café is sufficient. “The Union can’t be all
things to all people. Five days a week, it’s the center of campus. It won’t hurt the Union’s business if
the Outpost is the center of campus on weekends,” he said.

Ferguson cited the Outpost’s location on the Court as being important. “I think [its reopening] would really bridge the rift
between the Court and independents,” he said. After Epps and his committee obtain enough signatures, SGA members will draft a
resolution calling for the reopening of the Outpost. It will be presented to the Committee on Campus and Religious Life
for its comments. Eventually, Epps will submit the resolution to Vagt, Dean of Students Tom Shandley, and Director of Auxiliary
Services Richard Terry.

“The Outpost is one of the most talked about issues on campus and I don’t think the administration is taking
it seriously enough... I find it difficult for the administration to ignore the voices of hundreds of students,” said Harris,
SGA president.

Car insurance with no State Farm Agent? I’m not that brave.

Alligator specialist John Woolard has no problem wrestling with reptiles. But ask him to grapple with cut-rate car insurance? No
way. Play it safe with your car insurance. Get reliable service and competitive rates from me, your State Farm Agent.

Jamie Faulk
428 S Main Street
Hwy 115
Davidson, NC
704-892-3131
www.jamiefaulk.com

Like a good neighbor, State Farm is there.™

State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (not in NJ)
State Farm Indemnity Company (NJ)
Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois
statefarm.com™
