Editorial

Last month, the Patterson Court Office released a report summarizing the fall GPAs of every house on the Court. None of its numbers were accurate. The office attributed the problem to the incorrect utilization of a new computer program. We are not critical of the error. Mistakes are understandable and unavoidable. The effects of the error were magnified, however, by the way that it was handled. Had the problem been quickly recognized and corrected, it would have had minimal impact. In this case, there was not a system in place to catch the mistake. The report was made public before anyone checked its validity. The Patterson Court Office suggested that there was no way of testing the new computer system prior to reporting the data. In light of this, wouldn’t it have been especially important to make sure the numbers were at least correlative with those of recent semesters? As published, the GPAs were dramatically lower than years past. The report was not approved by the registrar, whose office is the only one equipped to verify GPA data. Instead, it was distributed to house presidents and posted on the College’s website. A week later, the Davidsonian published the report. Within days of its dissemination, the content of the report was common knowledge. Despite its wide circulation, the report wasn’t publicly contested until three full weeks after it was made public. How did so many people miss the report’s glaring inaccuracies? The report, and its lack of timely correction, would have been less significant had it not caused repercussions. The houses on the Court were ranked according to their GPA. Houses were essentially assigned an academic value that was frequently discussed among students. These rankings were wrong and did not commend the houses that should have been commended. Houses that failed standards because of the results of the grade report were subject to punitive actions. The Davidsonian, in a campus-wide email, was named as the source of the inaccurate data. In response, Dean Tom Shandley amends, “The email, while trying to clarify the issue of the campus GPA, was inaccurate. It was erroneous to attribute that error to the Davidsonian.” In the last week, the administration, the Patterson Court Office, PCC representatives, and students have spent much time and energy sorting through the cause and effects of the inaccurate report. It was a problem that could have been prevented had the report been submitted to the registrar before it was made public.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Timothy Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh
Gavin Weber

Sports Editor
Caroline Hauser

Photography Editors
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore
Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

Personality, by WILEY

Vea Vaniae YoU wir. You) Worle Gee Whe arrose. | am Now iNidble, and Winune kO Nour seduckive charthe. POdtaye. xviA0-Selicet* Horr Rhee ceerek pemirer PLEXING WANRD-TO-GET NNGAT BE A LITTLE NORE EFFECTINE IF YeU'D ACTUNLLY LEANE NY YARD, JEFFREN HAA WiLEN@ HOH. SeouTUR.com

Radio hosts do not decide what is “cool”

Last Sunday evening, I had the pleasure to encounter two strangers through the radio waves of WALT 1610 AM. Prior to this encounter, I knew only of several girls breaking down into tears over what Mr. Mbye Njie ‘04 and Mr. Ryan Carvalho ‘04 believe to be entertainment. If it were not for a fellow student running to my room and telling me I was on the radio that night, I would not have heard about what they said about me. What I heard were criticisms of my behavior and that of fellow students. Both Mr. Njie and Mr. Carvalho took it upon themselves to criticize me for being an annoying person. To say the least, I was outraged that these two people were afforded airtime on a tuition-funded radio station to state their enlightening viewpoints of the Davidson student population. I ask you not to confuse initial anger with a personal vendetta against the hosts. I do feel students have the right to express their views of their classmates in a constructive way by speaking to them face-to-face, but I do not think it is fair to broadcast your personal frustrations through the medium of distant radio waves, especially on a station I pay for. Furthermore, it would be irresponsible of me if I did not highlight this truly incorrigible and rude show, and even more foolish if I did not tell you that you are literally paying for it. From what I gather, the purpose of this radio show is to identify those of you who are even a little different in “moral” character, physical composition, and mental capacity. Then, once you are identified, Mr. Njie and Mr. Carvalho proceed to field calls from listeners that either agree with their thorough analysis or that wish to add yet another “profound” comment on the subject. What I ask of you now is to question whether you wish to continue to make this radio show an “out of pocket” expense or to convert it to a more productive one highlighting what little diversity of thought and ethnicity we have on our college campus. Reserving space for radio shows with sufficient and prudent content is an excellent outlet for Davidson students. It helps us all.to relax a little more and take in some tunes we might not often hear on modern corporate radio stations. And God forbid our government ever took away our right to freedom of speech, our freedom of expression, and our freedom to live how we choose. However, for every positive, we must consider its negative. Consider this: if I were to sit on a pedestal and scream at the top of my lungs the 100 things wrong with your body, mind, and spirit, would you not be at least interested in why I am doing it? I hope you would, for I also wish to know why Mr. Nijie and Mr. Carvalho chose to highlight Davidson students as the “humorous” ingredients and further challenge them to write back as to why they have the right to determine what is or is not “cool.”

Adam M. Dutko ‘03

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2002

The Intimidator: Gone but not forgotten

I’m supposed to write about Dale Earnhardt as we approach the one-year anniversary of his death in last February’s Daytona 500 NASCAR race. I don’t know how to express the feeling of loss that lingers to this day or how to determine the state of NASCAR one year after Earnhardt (A.E., as they say in the racing world). But I can tell you this: Earnhardt is gone forever, I am here now, and, God willing, another day awaits us all. With the humblest, most confident of hearts, I must continue without the simple joys of ol’ No. 3, yet since Earnhardt’s passing, I have concluded that it is only human to realize life’s precious finiteness. No truer man is he who admits his limits and accepts his shortcomings. Truly, none of us possess anything more than the mystery of life, and despite all of our Davidson educations and erudite powers of reasoning, we cannot solve it.

So upon the anniversary of Earnhardt’s twisting, tumbling spin into and across the great divide between life and death, upon the one-year mark of Earnhardt’s black Chevy smashing into the wall of the fourth and final turn in NASCAR’s biggest race, I, the great Earnhardt fan and NASCAR buff, can tell you that it suffices my spirit to confide in the grand truth that all things will pass, that we, as individuals, are not in control and that we are all replaceable. Indeed, Earnhardt’s car now carries another pilot, highly skilled and dashing like “The Intimidator” himself. Different colors and an odd but charmingly refreshing No. 29 adorn Earnhardt’s once feared black racecar. Whether I wanted it to or not, NASCAR went on fine this year without No. 3. And that is o.k. The race has gone on and will always go on, and as for me, well, I have been brought by Earnhardt’s tragedy to believe that, one fine morning, something greater than any and all of us will reveal the reason for the tiny events that sadden and baffle us. Despite where I want to go and all my future plans, an absolute, divine entity greater than myself and all creation, greater than all races run or to be run, lost or won, greater than all champions past, present, and future, shall pace me along life’s asphalt raceways, counseling me to run fast, go straight, turn left, and come back in full circle to Him.

Grant West ‘02

School is not that bad

After reading The Davidsonian consistently for the last two semesters, there seems to be one underlying trend in the student-submitted columns: Negativity. Is it me, or has The Davidsonian become an outlet for malcontents who are seemingly incapable of enjoying the good things available in life and at Davidson? Why is it that in every single issue, someone is complaining about that one thing that seemingly keeps Davidson from being a utopia? It really amazes me that with all the intelligent people at Davidson, there are so many columns written that are nothing more than complaints.

One big issue that garnered a lot of attention last semester was Patterson Court. If someone wasn’t whining about how it is nothing more than a bunch of drunks, then they were talking about how they would be up late due to the noise from weeknight parties. You know what? This is college and an important part of it is enjoying the social scene. But articles involving Patterson Court seem to be the tip of the iceberg. I remember reading cynical insights about how someone was dissatisfied with the parking situation, the new brick walkways, the school’s architectural themes, the hook-up scene, how there is no dating, too many bumper stickers, and on and on. Come on!! We go to a school where they do our laundry! Let’s keep things in perspective. There are far too many intelligent and thought-provoking things to write about; let’s not resort to cynical observations.

Now before someone writes a response calling me a hypocrite, bear in mind that I am writing in hopes of change. I want people to realize that life here just isn’t that bad. Day to day, I have a pretty good time, and I hope that everyone who seems to be looking for things to complain about takes a step back and realizes how many great things we have going for us.

Hunter Bick ‘04 and Will Hale ‘04