WWW.S
Call Now:

studentexpress

1-800-787-3787

Report, from page 1

70% standard in all areas.

In the 2000 report, only two houses managed to pass in all areas. Moore called this change a “drastic improvement.”

The report’s pass-fail standard is not an empty ranking; failure in one or more areas carries stiff consequences for the
house involved. A house that does not measure up to

Academics
Finances
Programming
Facilities
Membership
Service
Faculty/Staff

Weighted Total

Academics
Finances
Programming
Facilities
Membership
Service
Faculty/Staff

2001 STANDARDS REPORT

Weighted Total

All data compiled by the Patterson Court Standards Program. For full results see the PCC website at http://www.davidson.edu/administrative

“the 70% minimum standard in one area must submit a plan detailing steps that will be taken to improve the
deficiency. Failure in two or more areas carries a penalty of social probation. The more categories failed, the longer the
probation. A house that fails in four or more areas will have its presence on campus evaluated by CCRL.

Moore singled out Finances as an area of great improvement, pointing out that “more and more organizations are moving out
of debt” and projecting that all organizations will be out of debt by 2003.

Faculty/Staff Relations was another area in which Moore saw an upward trend; article submissions to the Davidsonian and faculty events
at the houses have both increased.

The report was not all good news, however. Several houses fell short of the average campus GPA; both Warner Hall
and SAE failed to meet standards in this area. The report acknowledges that many of the Patterson Court organizations need
to refocus their academic efforts this coming semester.

Additionally, Service activities have seen a mild decline since the 2000 report, and Moore encouraged organizations to reaffirm their commitment
to the Service aspects of Patterson Court.

Finally, the report indicates that violations on the Court are, unfortunately, not on the decline. “Several organizations are committing ‘repeat
offenses’ and are not correcting their mistakes. Risk Management Policies and campus alcohol awareness need to be addressed and possibly
revised and strengthened by the Patterson Court Council.”

Even with the minor dark spots in the report, however, Moore concluded with the optimistic observation that the Standards Program
is “evolving in a favorable direction.” He expressed hope that the incoming Chancellor, Nancy Kohler ’03, would be able to
hold the houses on the Court to an even higher standard.

Diplomat addresses Taiwan’s role in international community

By Emily Drew
Senior Staff Writer

“Taiwan is totally free, totally democratic. But, that does not mean that we do not have problems,” said Taiwanese representative
C.J. Chen during his recent lecture entitled “Taiwan and its Relations with the U.S. and Mainland China.” Chen highlighted Taiwan’s
economic and political achievements, while also stressing the importance of cross-cultural integration and understanding.

Chen is head of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in Washington, D.C., which maintains economic relations between Taiwan
and the U.S. in lieu of formal diplomatic relations between the two countries.

19712 One Norman Blvd.
Suite 28, Cornelius (in front of Bilo)

895-7696

the YMCA lobby, Davidson.
892-6161

After an introduction by Dr. Shelley Rigger (Brown Associate Professor of East Asian Politics) Chen took the podium in the
Smith 900 Room. He first described Taiwan’s history and its accomplishments, and later, he focused on Taiwanese international relations with
both the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and the U.S. He presented the positive accomplishments of the Taiwanese people, and
explained the negative issues facing the island as it struggles to maintain its identity among precarious international relationships.

“We constantly ask ourselves, ‘How can we improve our relations with the PRC? How can we improve the status of
Taiwan in the International Community?” said Chen. “Taiwan has been improving qualitatively. Still, we are not happy. We believe we
can achieve more.”

Chen said that Taiwan’s democratization began about 15 years ago, and has allowed for exciting economic growth and political accomplishments.
He noted that Taiwan’s GNP increased from $1 billion to $320 billion in only 50 years, and he also expressed
pride in a speedy democratization process of only about 15 years.

“Taiwan has the 46th largest population in the world, and the 138th largest land area. However, our economy is ranked
16th,” he said. “This is mostly due to the hard work of our people.”

“Their entrepreneurial outlook is part of

see Chen, page 4

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

1/24/02 0555hrs - Damage to Property
Person kicked the elevator buttons in West Dorm Basement, causing damage to the sheetrock surrounding the buttons.

1/24/02 0930hrs - Damage to Property
Person forced open the stationary door at Cunningham Fine Arts, causing damage to the wood surrounding the locking mechanism.

1/27/02 1147hrs - Incident
On this day, a dead deer was found dressed in a T-shirt and put up for display in front of
Vail Commons.
