‘The Davidsonian. Men overcome UNC-Asheville, women remain undefeated

By JONATHAN CROOKS
Staff Writer

Despite gusty 10 mph winds and a frigid temperature in the low 50s, the Davidson College men’s tennis team prevailed
over the University of North Carolina-Asheville Bulldogs with a dramatic 4-3 victory. In an unusual outdoor February match played at
the Covington Tennis Courts, the Wildcats found themselves battling the unfavorable conditions and their opponents before emerging with an exciting
win that came down to the last match.

Using the weather to their advantage, the mountain-based Bulldogs came out firing early, easily earning the doubles point with wins
in all three doubles matches. After being down 6-3, number one doubles combo Rob Haywood ’04 and Donald Miles ’05
brought the match to a tie-breaker, before losing 9-8 (7-2). At number two doubles, Chad Winebarger ’02 and Rob Gould
’04 led their match early, but fell 8-6. David Webb ’02 and Jonathan Britt ’04 were defeated 8-3 at the
number three doubles position.

Despite the frustrating start, the Wildcats regrouped and captured four of the six singles matches. Winebarger earned the ’Cats’ first
point of the match with a quick 6-2, 6-0 victory at number one singles. In spite of a formidable effort,
Webb was unable to win at number two singles, losing in straight sets, 6-4, 6-3. At number three singles, Haywood
captured the first set before dropping the second and third sets in a 6-2, 5-7, 6-3 loss. For the Wildcats’
second and third points, Britt dropped the first set at number four singles before storming back for a 4-6, 6-2,
6-4 victory, and, at number five, Miles won in straight sets, 6-2, 6-3.

With the match tied at three points each, Geoff Mullen ’03 stepped into the spotlight and emerged as the hero
of the match with a thrilling three-set victory at number six singles. Plagued by inconsistency in the first set, Mullen
elevated the level of his game, easily winning the second and third sets, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1. Mullen’s impressive victory captured
the final point of the match, handing the Cats a 4-3 victory.

Following the match, head coach Jeff Frank said, “It was one of those character-building matches. I’m really proud of the
kids for hanging tough in unfavorable conditions.” Earlier in the match, Frank noted that the team needed to learn to
play outside, since their spring break trip consists entirely of outdoor matches. Due to cold winter temperatures, the team does
not usually play an outdoor match until late February. Nonetheless, the Wildcats were able to play through the conditions and
defeat the Bulldogs, which made this victory all the more important for the team’s development.

With Sunday’s impressive win against UNC-Asheville, Davidson improves its season record to 4-2. The Wildcats have a week and a
half off to practice and prepare before opening up Southern Conference play during their spring break trip, which begins on
March 1 against College of Charleston. During their trip, the Cats will also face conference rivals the Citadel, Georgia Southern
University, University of Tennessee-Chattanooga, and Colonial Athletic Conference foe James Madison University.

---

We throw all kinds of obstacles at you. Tuition isn't one of them. Sure, we’ll have you climbing walls. But
if you qualify for a 2- or 3-year scholarship, tuition’s one obstacle you won't have to worry about. Talk to
an Army ROTC rep. And get a leg up on your future.

ARMY ROTC
Unlike any other college course you can take.
For scholarship and enrollment information visit:
Major Leslie at 7 Jackson Court or call (704) 892-2165

---

By AMANDA MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

With two more wins under their belts, the women’s tennis team is off to a 4-0 start on the 2002
season, one of their best starts in recent years. On Wednesday, Feb. 13, the Wildcats took on the Panthers of
High Point and pulled out a 7-0 win, their third shut-out of the season. At the number one doubles spot,
the combination of freshmen twins Meghan and Kelly Fillnow proved too much for High Point’s Patricia D’Aray and Annika Meyerson,
and Davidson managed an 8-6 win. At number two doubles, Katherine Hatch ’04 and Meggie Patterson ’05 conquered their own
Panthers, downing Anna Stirdh and Elisabet Ericson.8-2. Finally, at number three doubles, senior captain Kelley Cantrell and junior captain Yasamina
Hilu scored the final doubles win of the day, beating High Point’s Connie Wicks and Simona Foltyn, 8-6. With these
three doubles wins, the Wildcats earned one of their seven points on the day. In the singles line-up, number one
Kelley Fillnow split the first two sets with High Point’s Foltyn, before managing a win in a ten-point tie breaker,
finishing the match 7-5, 2-7, 10-5. Number two singles Patterson defeated Meyerson in two sets, 6-3, 7-5. Number three singles
Meghan Fillnow showed a strong performance with her decisive win over Stirdh, 7-5, 6-1. In the number four spot, Cantrell
went to three sets before beating D’Aray, 3-6, 6-1, 6-1. Number five Hatch easily handled Ericson, 6-2, 6-4, while Gayle
Jones '03 rounded out the number six spot and brought home a victory over Wicks, 6-3, 6-4. Cantrell commented on
the game, “The High Point match demonstrated our depth: Kelley Cantrell leads the Wildcats. Yasamina couldn’t be there but Gayle
stepped in and won in singles and doubles.”

The Wildcats were back in action on Saturday, Feb. 16, taking on the Seahawks of UNC-Wilmington. Once again, the Wildcats
proved the stronger team, winning their fourth game of the season, 5-2. In number one doubles, the Fillnows suffered their
first losses of the season, as UNCW’s Kathleen Bowles and Mandy Bullard pulled out the win, 8-4. Despite losing this
match, the Wildcats continued to play solid, winning the number two and three doubles spots to earn one of their
five points on the afternoon. Patterson and Hatch won in the number two spot, defeating Sallie Kiser and Hunter McRae,
8-6, while Cantrell and Hilu brought home the number three win, defeating Joy Solc and Jacky Gibbens, also 8-6. More
impressively, as head coach Caroline Price comments, “Hilu was awarded the ‘game ball’ for some of her spectacular shots.” Price
continues, “Gaining the doubles point set the tone for the match. Strong and aggressive doubles play gained the 1-0 lead
to set up the singles competition.”

In singles action, Kelly Fillnow easily handled Wilmington’s Gibbens, 6-4, 6-1. At the number two spot, Patterson suffered her first
loss of the season, as Bullard pulled out a 7-5, 6-2 win. Meghan Fillnow bounced back from her doubles loss
to clinch a win over Solc, 6-1, 6-2. At number four, Cantrell shut down McRae, 6-0, 6-0 while Hatch dominated
Kimberly Barnett, 6-2, 6-4. Rounding out the six spot, Jones suffered her first loss of the season, as Kiser won
the match in three sets, 6-2, 2-6, 6-3. The Wildcats are on the road next weekend, traveling to Washington, DC,
to take on Georgetown, George Washington, and American University.

Lacrosse wins season opener

Press RELEASE
Sports Information

The Davidson Wildcat women’s lacrosse team opened the season with an exciting 5-3 victory over the visiting Denver Pioneers Friday
evening at Richardson Stadium. Davidson (1-0) fell behind early as Patience Baldwin of Denver (0-1) scored two first-half goals. The
first goal came at the 22:57 mark and her second with 2:37 to play in the first stanza. The first
half was a real defensive battle that ended with the Pioneers holding a 2-0 advantage.

The second half took a turn in favor of the Wildcats as junior Loren Seaton (Moorestown, N.J.) scored with 24:19
to play. She was assisted on the play by senior Sarah Otto (Greenwich, Conn.). Seaton tied the score three minutes
later on an unassisted goal. The Wildcats took the lead on a Sarah Otto goal which came off a pass
from Seaton. Denver tied the score up just over halfway through the final period, but Sarah Otto scored her second
goal of the game to put Davidson ahead for good. Senior Christin Raimondo (Latrobe, Pa.) scored the final goal of
the game with 11:03 to play. Sophomore goalie Becca Nussbaum (S. Glastonbury, Conn.) made 10 saves while the stellar Wildcat
defense allowed just 11 shots for the game. The Wildcats are off until Sunday, February 24 when they travel to
Chapel Hill, N.C., to take on nationally-ranked North Carolina.
