By Tep EMERSON Staff Writer. Lead singer and creator of the band Filter, Rich Patrick, explained that “We don’t take vacations. You start unwinding, you lose your edge.” Despite the nose-to-the-grindstone approach, Filter has lost the edge they once possessed, but not in the sense that they have failed as musicians. In fact, it was that very edge that has kept Filter from becoming one of the premier acts in rock today.

Patrick’s musical career began in 1989 when he and Trent Reznor formed the illustrious industrial band Nine Inch Nails. After a year on the road with the band, Patrick left due to musical differences. It wasn’t until 1994, when a mutual friend introduced Patrick to Brian Liesegang, that Patrick began writing music again. Patrick, with his electronic background, and Liesegang, with his array of musical talent, produced an album’s worth of material in several months. The album, entitled *Short Bus*, was produced on a small budget but shocked the music industry with its rawness and fervor. Patrick explained that the album was a celebration of those who are special and different. Much like the brand of music that he helped to create with Reznor, Patrick’s artistic talents were a celebration of a unique and provocative new genre. The Chemical Brothers collaborated on the song “Can’t You Trip Like I Do,” which was an instant hit. Overall, the album was dark, highly electronic, and heralded as the new musical voice of the generation.

After a disappointing display in their second album *Title of Record*, Filter settled into the dust of the post-grunge arena. The transition began with the loss of Liesegang after the *Short Bus* tour. Patrick was now living in the shadow of Reznor, and new industrial acts were popping up everywhere. Time to go back to the basics.

Fast forward to today. *The Amalgamut*, influenced by the diversity and freedom that Patrick saw while touring across America, marks Filter’s third album and an attempt to resurrect their image amongst the talking heads of the music world. As it turns out, the album is itself a celebration of diverse songwriting. Taking influences from past albums and artists and mixing them with his own originality, Rich Patrick creates a tightly knit, compelling record. The first single, “Where Do We Go From Here,” represents the typical Filter single, poppy and completely different from the rest of the album. But that is exactly the point. All 12 of the tracks on *The Amalgamut* are separate entities of each other, yet collectively come together once one hears the album in its entirety. The opening track “You Walk Away” is full of adrenaline and mirrors something off *Short Bus*. The song that will most definitely reach the airwaves sometime this fall will be “The Only Way (Is The Wrong Way),” the poppiest song Filter has ever written. “Never Be The Same” has a hopelessness to it that sounds like it could have been taken from Alice in Chains’ album *Dirt*. The simple lyrics and rhythm of “God Damn Me” create a profoundness that requires several consecutive listenings, much like “Take A Picture” off *Title of Record*. The most sullen, and therefore the best track on the album...album, would have to be “The Missing.” Written on Sept. 11, “The Missing” is more of a question than a song. The confusion and placidity of the melody is complemented by the slurred vocals that Patrick so cleverly carves into your mind. Rich Patrick writes his best music when he has a deep emotional attachment to the song, and “The Missing” represents the cunning of a veteran songwriter. The end result: a change in identity. No longer will Filter be labeled an industrial band. Rather, Filter will be known as a band that can cross genre lines and excel no matter what style they play. Much has changed in the 4 years since Title of Record was released. Reznor has disappeared from the music scene, rock is reborn, and Filter is leading the charge.

Thursday, September 26
Outside Chambers Hall — Belk Dorm End

The Simpsons: ?
By Linny Baldwin
Arts & Living Editor

The Times of London remarked this summer that, should all of civilization be destroyed, modern American society could be reconstructed solely from episodes of The Simpsons. I don’t know if I’d go that far, but I have to admit that few things make me laugh harder. If my younger brother and I hadn’t bonded by trading Homerisms, we probably would have spoken a lot less during our young lives. Since we know you’re just reading the paper for a half-hour’s worth of quality procrastination, here is a quiz that will test your knowledge of this pop culture phenomenon while helping you avoid anything that might resemble productivity. Level 1 is for novices; if you can get Level 3, you’re a true fan. If you know the answers to Level 4, you probably need a hobby. And no, there is no partial credit.

Level 1 — 1 point each
a. What is Marge’s maiden name?
b. Where does Homer work?
c. What is the name of Bart and Lisa’s favorite cartoon show?
d. Who is the principal of Springfield Elementary?

Level 2 — 2 points each
a. What is Patty and Selma’s favorite TV show?
b. Name Lisa’s favorite doll.
c. Who is Bart’s teacher?
d. Name Springfield’s rival town.

Level 3 — 3 points each
a. What is the name of Springfield’s only burlesque house?
b. What did evil employer Hank Scorpio give to Homer as a reward for his hard work?
c. What is the name of Flanders’ store?
d. What is the name of Springfield’s minor league baseball team?

Level 4 — 4 points each
a. In the opening sequence, which character is walking a dog?
b. What is the real name of the mental patient who thinks he’s Michael Jackson?
c. Name the cult that Homer forces the family to join in “The Joy of Sect.”
d. What is Bart’s blood type?

Now, if you’re really bored, check the answers below and add up your score. The maximum is 40 points. If you got a perfect score, congratulations! You’ve won a free copy of next week’s Davidsonian. Be sure to pick it up on the newspaper rack near the Union desk.

ANSWERS
1a. Bouvier.
b. Springfield Nuclear Power Plant.
c. “The Itchy and Scratchy Show.”
d. Seymour Skinner.

2a. “MacGyver.”
b. Malibu Stacey.
c. Mrs. Krabappel.
d. Shelbyville.

3a. “La Maison Derriere.”
b. The Denver Broncos.
c. The Leftorium.
d. The Isotopes.

4a. Apu.
b. Leon Kompowsky.
c. Movementarians.
d. Double O negative.