**ARTs Blade II, We Were Soldiers are worth your time**

By MICHAEL GALDO
Staff Writer

Within a week I watched two movies that covered the entire spectrum of American cinema: *We Were Soldiers* and *Blade II*. I know, you’re probably thinking *Blade II*? Ok, that may be a bit of an exaggeration, but I’m still not gonna take it back.

I have seen *We Were Soldiers* twice already, and it is quickly becoming one of my favorite war movies. Based on the true story as told by Lieutenant General Harold G. Moore (played by Mel Gibson) and civilian war correspondent Joseph L. Galloway (portrayed by a very talented Barry Pepper), the movie tells the true story of the first major battle between U.S. and Vietnamese forces in the Vietnam War. The vivid battle scenes with their graphic and brutal portrayal of pain and misery on the battlefield are nearly as gripping as *Black Hawk Down* (another one of my favorites). However, *We Were Soldiers* does a better job at developing the characters before sending them off to war. True, the opening thirty-five minutes can be a bit slow and mildly cheesy at times, but when men start to die on the battlefield one sees them more as individual men, instead of a gear in the war machine or as an unnamed “casualty.”

movies.yahoo.com
Barry Pepper (left) and Mel Gibson (right) star in *We Were Soldiers*

Another aspect of *We Were Soldiers* that connects the audience with the characters is the grizzled humor of veteran actor Sam Elliot. In one scene a young sergeant walks past Sam Elliot’s character and says “Good day sir.” Elliot replies in a gruff tone, “How do you know what kind of God Damn day it is?” Trust me, it’s funny. Anyways, he says a few well-timed grizzled, bitter lines throughout the film that reinforce the human quality of men while at war. It does not matter what the situation, mankind has the ability to express a full range of emotions no matter what the situation.

*Blade II*, on the other hand, is the continuing story of a vampire-slaying half-vampire born with “all of their strengths, but none of their weaknesses.” Yes, it’s a ridiculous premise, but not as ridiculous as the script. Sometimes I wonder if the same person writes every action movie from *The Mummy* to, well, every Arnold Schwarzenegger movie ever made (except, of course, the brilliantly written *Conan the Barbarian 2*). Well, this movie follows in this tradition, with corny lines describing everything from bombs in people’s heads to female anatomy. Despite the fact that the movie contained three wrestling moves (including a Macho Man inspired flying elbow) *Blade II* gets the Galdo stamp of approval. I mean, even without vampire powers and a 4-foot-long silver sword, Wesley Snipes is cool enough to carry a movie. Oh, and the intense fight scenes and good cinematography didn’t hurt. I enjoyed this movie completely sober, although a few might enhance your movie-going experience (of course, I don’t recommend drinking in the theater out of one).of those giant cups they give you—that would be wrong). These two films are completely different. One ended with the death of a vampire, the other with the names and home states of very real men who died in the real battle you just saw. You leave the theater excited from Blade 2. You leave the theater proud to share a nation with men of such courage from We Were Soldiers. I don’t recommend seeing these two movies in the same night. However, both are a solid investment of your time, and your five bucks.

The winners of the 74th Annual Academy Awards

Brian Grazer: “I found that my calling was to tell stories as a producer, and I just love doing just that. In the case of A Beautiful Mind, the story and the subject were personal and important to me. And to receive an award for making this movie is a miracle.” www.oscar.com

Best Director: Ron Howard for A Beautiful Mind

Halle Berry: “Oh, my god. Oh, my god. I'm sorry. This moment is so much bigger than me. This moment is for Dorothy Dandridge, Lena Horne, Diahann Carroll. It's for the women who stand behind me, Jada Pinkett, Angela Bassett, Vivica Fox and it's for every nameless faceless woman of color that now has a chance because this door tonight has been opened. Thank you. I'm so honored.” www.oscar.com

Best Picture: Ron Howard and Brian Grazer for A Beautiful Mind

Ron Howard: “Thank you. Well, I am not a good enough actor anymore to be able to stand up here and make you believe that I haven't imagined this moment in my mind over the years and played it out about a thousand times. So here goes. It's pretty simple, really. I'm grateful. I'm very grateful for this. I'm grateful for an entire lifetime spent involved in this creative process that www.oscar.com

Best Actress: Halle Berry for Monster's Ball

Denzel Washington: “God is good, God is great. God is great. From the bottom of my heart, I thank you all. Forty years I've been chasing Sidney, they finally give it to me, what do they do? They give it to him the same night. I'll always be chasing you, Sidney. I'll always be following in your footsteps. There's nothing I would rather do, sir. Nothing I would rather do. God bless you. God bless you.” www.oscar.com

Best Supporting Actor: Jim Broadbent for Iris

Jennifer Connelly: “By some beautiful twist of fate I've landed in this vocation that demands that I feel and helps me to learn. I know film has moved or taught me more than A Beautiful Mind. Thank you to all of our magnificent cast and crew for their invaluable collaboration and most especially to Ron Howard and Russell Crowe.” www.oscar.com

Best Actor: Denzel Washington for Training Day

Jim Broadbent: “Making Iris was the most joyful, wonderful experience and for that, much thanks to Intermedia, to BBC Films and to Miramax for getting behind it and putting it out... And above all, I'd like to thank my wife Anastasia for coming with me on this long and rather unpredictable journey.” www.oscar.com

Best Supporting Actress: Jennifer Connelly for A Beautiful Mind