By Derek Lon
Arts and Living Editor

The ABC network will air the 74th Annual Academy Awards this Sunday at 8 p.m. It marks the pinnacle of
the awards season, ending the most holy time of the year for film dorks. Whether you decide to sit in
your hall’s lounge with a bowl of Orville or to sit in your room with a bowl of greenery, Sunday
night should provide a few laughs, and if not that, at least something to talk about on Monday morning. Then
again, you could avoid the evening’s events altogether, not a bad choice given the Rivers girls.

So who’s going to win? Who deserves to win? Nearly every television news program, talk show, magazine, and newspaper has
their own predictions and desires, so why not us?

In the Best Picture category, The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring will win, though Gosford Park
is the best nominee, and Mulholland Drive, my favorite movie of the year, should have been nominated. The buzz right
now is around Moulin Rouge, but I think LOTR will triumph over the musical and A Beautiful Mind: Oscar likes
big, grand movies, no matter how good or bad. Case and point: Gladiator’s win last year.

While I think that LOTR will be named Best Picture, my guess is that Ron Howard will receive the directing
honors. The Academy owes him for Apollo 13, for which he was not nominated. Ridley Scott’s work on Black Hawk
Down was the best of any director this year. It’s nice to see the director of the year nominated, and
it would be even nicer to see him win, but that is highly unlikely. Look for Richie Cunningham to be
behind the podium on Sunday night. Also, Patrice Leconte should have been nominated for The Widow of St. Pierre.

The best actor race comes down to Russell Crowe and Denzel Washington. Crowe is Hollywood’s bad boy, but that doesn’t
make him a bad actor. Washington is Hollywood’s nice guy, and one of our best actors. But Crowe will win.
His film, A Beautiful Mind, is better than Washington’s Training Day, and that’s all the edge Crowe needs. I feel
that Tom Wilkinson (In the Bedroom), however, gave the best nominated performance, but his chances are slim. It’s a shame,
too, that Daniel Auteuil wasn’t recognized for The Widow of St. Pierre.

Many believe that either Sissy Spacek (In the Bedroom) or Halle Berry (Monster’s Ball) will win best actress honors, but
I think Spacek has a lock on this category. She’s well respected, and her In the Bedroom performance is a
comeback of sorts. Personally, I do not understand the universal praise for Spacek: her role is more of a supporting
one, and it seems that all she does is smoke and break plates. Critics talk about the rage she gives
her character; I see no rage, only a mature actress on the fast track to emphysema. Don’t be mistaken: Spacek
is not bad, she’s just not Oscar-worthy. The performance of the year — the best performance of any man or
woman, supporting or leading — was Juliette Binoche’s in The Widow of St. Pierre. She was recognized, wrongfully, for her
adequate performance in the mediocre Chocolat last year. In Widow, Binoche is stunning, transcending her somewhat implausible material and bringing
it to reality.

Berry won’t win. Washington won’t win. Will Smith (Ali) definitely won’t win. Two of these three actors probably deserve to
win, but they won’t. What gives? Quite simply, it’s not because they’re black, but because there are other valid choices
out there this year. And anyway, the discriminated won’t go unnoticed. Ian McKellen, an outspoken advocate for gay rights, will
get the “victim” Oscar for his supporting role in LOTR. His fellow knight Ben Kingsley, however, is the best in
the category.

As for the supporting actresses... Jennifer Connelly should have been nominated last year for Requiem for a Dream. She will
win this year for A Beautiful Mind, and she deserves the Oscar. The critical praise she has been receiving is
long overdue. Helen Mirren and Maggie Smith of Gosford Park and Marisa Tomei of In the Bedroom may sneak in
and win, but I think Connelly has the best chances. Elpidia Carrillo’s overlooked performance in Bread and Roses was the
best of the year.

So what are we to learn from these predictions and opinions? First, it’s unfair to say that the Academy...would choose
gay knights over black actors; I do think that it is fair to say that some sort of political-minority statement
will come out of this year’s Oscars, if there hasn’t been one already. Second, when in doubt, go with A
Beautiful Mind. Third, rent The Widow of St. Pierre. Fourth, they should just let me choose the nominees and winners.

- THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RD.
AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS
NEAR DEAN & DE LUCE
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY
Continuing our policy of offering Davidson Students, Faculty & Employees a 20% Discount on Eyewear and Special Prices on Eye
Exams.

By Curista WAGNER
Special Contributor

The first Nobel Prize for Literature awarded to an African went to Wole Soyinka of Nigeria in 1986. Primarily a
playwright, Soyinka has also written poetry, essays and directed theatre. A few weeks ago, Soyinka was the guest of honor
in Charlotte’s Moving Poets’ performance of “The Echo.” This original production was inspired by the playwright’s The Man Died: Prison
Notes of Wole Soyinka, a nonfiction book which recounted his two-year imprisonment during Nigeria’s Biafran War. The performance was made
possible by The Echo Foundation, a Charlotte-based nonprofit organization, and the Moving Poets Theatre of Dance. The Echo Foundation helps
shed light on critical human rights issues by interrogating instances of injustice and encouraging dignity and moral courage. Nobel Laureate
Elie Wiesel gave the Echo Foundation’s inaugural program in 1998, “Against Indifference.” Soyinka, once a political dissident, now an active
freedom fighter, was a fortunate addition to the Foundation’s program.

Soyinka was most outspoken politically during Nigeria’s Biafran War, 1967-1970. Soyinka was in favor of the Biafran secession from Nigeria
and, amidst the mass violence that ensued, was thrown into 25 months of prison without trial. He spent almost all
of it in solitary confinement where his anxiety, fear, and spiritual transformation became the text, The Man Died.

“The Echo” began with Soyinka’s recitation of four of his poems, read in a robust, resonating baritone. “We await/The promise
of the rust,” he pledged to his fellow Nigerians in “Season.” This poem, like many of his others, is inextricably
tied to his political work. Following, two speakers narrated sections of his text. A five-piece orchestra accompanied the movement of
dancers interpreting the passages read. The wavering call of a flute marked the melancholy dances. Energetic cello, djembe (a popular
African drum), guitar and various hand percussions complemented the choreography expressing the prisoner’s anticipated emancipation. With a stage lit by
incandescent red, blue, and yellow lights and dancers’ skin-tight raiment embellished with tattoos of flowers and geometric shapes, the stage
began to mime Nigerian folklore. A series of spoken text and interpretive dance narrated the prisoner’s experiences: shackled, sweating, starving.
In the final reading, a guard came to announce the prisoner’s release. He urges the prisoner, “Try to forget your
time in jail. Consider it just one of those things that happens in wartime.” But the prisoner did not forget;
he wrote a book. And from the book came the freedom of speech, movement, and expression that had been utterly
compromised by his imprisonment.

If “The Echo” interested you, check out the www.nobel.se. Soyinka provided the inspiration for “The Echo.” Moving Poets’ next interpretive
performance, “Fowl Play,” a contemporary satirical take on the classic ballet Swan Lake, will run May 9-12. Information about the
Poets is available at www.movingpoets.com and Booth Playhouse in Charlotte.

The Davidson College Theatre Department Presents
Steve Martin
March 20, 21, and 23 at 8 p.m.
Directed by Ann Marie Costa
March 24 at 2 p.m.
The Duke Family Performance Hall
Knobloch Campus Center
Tickets: Students: $5 + Faculty / Staff / Senior Citizens: $7 + General Admission: $10
Box Office open Mon.-Fri., 2-5 p.m. beginning March 18.
For reservations call 704-894-2340.
