‘College to host conference on Russian-American relations this weekend

Prominent Russian scholars will visit for weekend conference

By Ralph F. Foss
Staff Writer

This weekend Davidson College will host a group of scholars, students, townspeople, parents, and alumni during what has been termed a “Presidential Weekend.” Entitled “Russia and America: Security, Globalization, and Nationalism,” the conference will include Russian scholars from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO), a leading diplomat from the Russian Embassy in Washington, and accomplished researcher Lilia Shevtsova, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

Two of the expected visitors, Dr. Vladimir Pechatnov and Dr. Vladimir Sogrin, have lectured at Davidson in the past. Pechatnov has co-authored a forthcoming book with Dr. Earl Edmondson and Dr. Ralph Levering, both members of the History department at Davidson. Dr. Ivan Tyulin, the first vice-president of MGIMO and a professor of political science, will accompany them.

The conference is an effort to bring together professors from multiple disciplines, renowned scholars, and loyal College personages for a thematic exploration of a certain topic scheme, says Dr. Lou Ortmayer, professor of Political Science. Such a large-scale event occurs only once every academic year, underscoring the importance of this particular conference.

The participation of accomplished Russians in this program is remarkable because, in Ortmayer’s opinion, such an event “usually happens at a research university.” Certainly, the willingness of the Russians to take part in the conference signals the esteem in which Davidson is held in their eyes.

What makes this conference especially interesting is the fact that some of the participants—Russian and American—are involved in a kind of regular exchange program. For about four years, a blossoming friendship between the College and the MGIMO has resulted in a few visits by key Russians. Edmondson made a trip to Moscow in September 2000; Davidson hopes to send another professor to MGIMO in the near future.

Topics during the conference include issues of globalization, security, national identity, and foreign policy. At the heart of the event, the conferees will attempt to define the place that Russia holds in this new global age, especially in relation to America. The goal of the conference is to exchange different perspectives. As Levering notes, these scholars “will be presenting perspectives that may challenge some of our own pet ideas. This conference is likely to offer insights that will stay with us for a long time.”

Students welcome new college bar

New bar and grill will reopen in March under new management

By Nick Asma
Senior Staff Writer

After several weeks out of operation, the Davidson Depot facility will reopen its doors as a new restaurant under new management sometime in March. According to SGA Senator Kevin Epps ’03, a new bar and grill under different management plans to open soon. The restaurant and bar will be redone, and the new bar will be more upscale than the old one, though it will offer fewer taps than before. The owners have already planned a grand opening complete with big-name bands. Students across campus have expressed excitement over the reopening of the popular business and the

Correction

In “College avoids national trends in grade inflation,” we reprinted the Patterson Court Office’s inaccurate average fall GPA of 2.83. The correct average fall 2001 GPA for the student body was, according to the Registrar's Office, 3.13. The Davidsonian regrets the error.

(2/6) The Davidsonian

Campus Police Report

Feb. 9, 5:30 p.m. - Union Cafe

A physical fight broke out between two female employees of the Union Cafe in the Alvarez Student Union. Both parties sustained minor injuries and were asked to leave. It is unsure when, or if, they will return to work.

SPRING BREAK 2002

Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas or Florida. Join Student Travel Services, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote Trips at Davidson College. Earn Cash or Free Trips. On Campus Contact Mann Travel & Cruises (704) 892-9020. Information/Reservations: 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

Mexico/Caribbean: $300 round trip plus tax
Europe: $169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000

SPRING BREAKReestablishment of the Davidson landmark. “It was the only real off-campus hangout anywhere near Davidson. It played a large role in social life for upper-classmen,” noted Richard Vinson ’02. “It’s a good hangout place to get away from campus with friends, plus it helps to break up the week with Thirsty Thursdays,” said Steve Reece ’02. For many, particularly older students, the establishment offered an attractive alternative to other late-night Davidson social events. George Brown ‘03 expressed this popular opinion, claiming that “it provides a different environment for social interaction. You can only go to so many fraternity parties.” Most students appreciated the close proximity of the bar which in turn made it a safe off-campus establishment within walking distance. “Davidson needs a local bar. Folks don’t need to be driving to exit 28,” said Ben Edwards ‘02. Many Davidson students look forward to going to the popular bar when they turn 21 and were disappointed when it temporarily closed down. “I look forward to going as a rite of passage,” claimed Khoury Ashooh ’03. The food from the restaurant also drew many Davidson students. “The food was really good for a bar/restaurant,” said Charlotte McCormick ‘04. Other students recognized the historical importance of the establishment and expressed sympathy over losing a Davidson landmark. “[The Depot] has been active for years. It was used for shipping before major highways came through the area. The railroad and the Depot put Davidson on the map, and because of it Main Street exists,” noted La Powell ‘03. Regardless of their reasons, the majority of students on campus look forward to seeing the Depot back on the social scene.

GPAs, from page 1

The problem that automatically assumes no GPA in a given term is a GPA of 0. “That’s largely students who were studying abroad,” said Epes. The more members of each house that were abroad, the lower the house GPA was. Patterson Court Advisor Grahaeme Hesp distributed the computer-generated results to house presidents via email on January 17. The data was also published on the Patterson Court page of the Davidson website. Epes notes that all grade reports should be approved by his office before publication or release. “Patterson Court is not a valid source for GPA information. [The data] should not have been released in that fashion without verification,” he said. Hesp was unavailable for comment. Epes realized the error several days after the Patterson Court-generated report was published in the Davidsonian. He then alerted the dean of students, the Patterson Court office, and other administrators of the incorrect information. He did not foresee significant repercussions. “I thought, everyone publishes an error somewhere. No big deal,” said Epes. Action did result from the grade report. The 12 fraternities and eating houses were ranked according to their average fall GPAs. Last month, PCC released its annual standards report. Due to the data from the grade report, Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Warner Hall did not meet PCC’s academic requirements. “We were very disappointed to notice how much our house’s GPA had dropped since last year. As a result of the incorrect data that was issued, Warner Hall failed our PCC standards. We are glad to see this correction made in our GPA. The correct data fortunately resulted in standards reports being reconfigured by the PCC,” said Maryanne Warner ’03, president of Warner Hall. The recalculated standards report amends Warner Hall’s failing mark. It also notes that SAE’s GPA improved, although not enough to pass standards. “I apologize for the error in the standards calculation, especially to Warner Hall and that I am pleased that only two houses did not make standards, which is awesome. Now, Patterson Court organizations must focus in order to have all twelve houses meet standards next spring,” said PCC Chancellor Nancy Kohler ‘03. In a Feb. 7 email to house presidents, administrators, and others, including The Davidsonian, Hesp noted that any action taken as a result of the erroneous grade report will be reconsidered. News Editor Colin Eagan contributed to this story. Please see revised GPAs, page 4.