Photo by Sports Information

Junior David Peoples fires a pass in Sunday’s 2-1 loss to UNCW.

Men’s soccer returns to Earth against UNCW
‘Cats unable to sustain magic in rainy home opener

By Geoff Fehling
Staff Writer

The 17th ranked men’s soccer team suffered its first loss of the season on Sunday afternoon, dropping a 2-1 decision
to UNC Wilmington as the rain poured down on Richardson Stadium in the team’s home opener. The wet field forced
both teams to play a different brand of soccer, characterized by awkward bounces and bizarre ball flight.

UNCW’s Nick Acosta scored both goals for the visiting Seahawks, who improved to 3-0 on the still-young season. Davidson dropped
to 2-1-1 in the teams’ first meeting since 1988. Less than halfway through the first half, a foul outside the
Wildcat box gave UNCW a quality scoring opportunity. Hitting a well-placed shot around the Davidson wall and into the lower
left corner, Acosta tallied his first goal on the day. Davidson could not find the back of the net for
the first 45 minutes and UNCW took the one-goal advantage into halftime.

Nearly 20 minutes into the second frame, Austin MacPhee fed a ball through the Wildcat defense and hit Acosta in
stride. Firing a shot near post and beyond the reach of sophomore goalkeeper Bart Creasman, Acosta picked up his second
goal of the day, giving UNCW a 2-0 advantage. Trailing by two goals, the Wildcats continued to create scoring chances,
but were unable to convert. Finally, at the 84:56 mark, junior Nick Hansell skillfully bicycled the ball over the UNCW
goalie and into the net for his third goal of the season. With less than a minute remaining in regulation,
junior co-captain David Peoples nearly tied the score with a brilliant run through the Seahawks defense only to be met
by a sliding goaltender at the top of the box.

Despite outplaying the Seahawks for the final 20 minutes, and most of the game for that matter, the ‘Cats were
ultimately unable to overcome the two-goal deficit. “We made two critical mistakes that put us behind,” said head coach Matt
Spear. “We battled back but were unable to overcome an effective UNCW squad. At this level, we’ve got to play
our best because every game is going to be a battle.”

Starting senior goalkeeper Soren Johnson felt the defense played very well on the whole, and gave credit to the Seahawks.
“UNC-W did what they had to do to get the win, we didn’t,” he said. “We need to be more
dangerous.”

Coming on the heels of a huge victory at Chapel Hill, the UNCW loss will more than likely drop the
‘Cats from any national polls. “There is a lot of parity in men’s college soccer and our win over North
Carolina and subsequent loss to UNC Wilmington illustrates just that. We have to be sharp each outing and it’s important
to learn from game to game,” Spear said. “Now we have to put this behind us and get ready for
an important game at College of Charleston.”

The Wildcats look ahead now to their first conference opponent of the 2002 campaign. Davidson plays its conference opener away
at the College of Charleston tonight. The opening touch is scheduled for 7 p.m.

Quis named All-Tournament in New Orleans
By Mike Giglio
Staff WriterWriter

It has been an uneasy week for the Davidson volleyball team. After defeating Furman last Tuesday night, the Wildcats were
off to their best start in three years with a 7-1 record. This weekend’s tournament, the UNO Wyndham-Metairie Invitational in
New Orleans, however, saw the team take a significant step back from their fast start.

The ‘Cats played with intensity against Furman, taking the match in four games (30-24, 28-30, 30-28, and 30-25). Sophomore Julia
Hueckel and junior Tisha Chapman epitomized this intensity and they combined to end the close third game with an impressive
block. Hueckel led all players with sixteen kills, while Chapman hit .600 and won the last game with her fifteenth
putaway.

The Wildcats, riding a five-game winning streak going into the UNO Invitational, finally met their match in Nicholls State. Davidson
lost the match in four games (30-28, 18-30, 30-18, 30-23) to set off what would become a three-game skid. One
of the few highlights for the ‘Cats in the match was the play of senior Rebecca Teichgraeber, a New Orleans
native, who notched thirteen kills, eleven digs, and two blocks. Setter Nicole Tonelli also played well with thirteen assists.

On Saturday, in a hotly contested match that needed all five games to determine a winner, Troy State handed Davidson
its second straight loss (30-24, 19-30, 30-25, 28-30, and 17-15). The Wildcats played well, led by Chapman’s twenty-three putaways and
.645 attack percentage and double-doubles from both Teichgraeber and Hueckel, but ultimately were unable to secure the victory as they
lost the last game of the match by just two points.

Coach Cowie stressed at the beginning of the season that the ‘Cats would have to take things one step at
a time. The ability to bounce back and regain their winning form will determine the fate of the team from
here.

The Wildcats fell in three games to nationally-ranked North Carolina, 30-15, 30-20, and 30-28, Tuesday night at Carmichael Auditorium. The
Tar Heels’ 9-1 record matches the best start to a season since 1981 while the Wildcats fall to 7-5. The
final game was neck-and-neck as Davidson grabbed a 24-20 lead in the back-and-forth game. Despite four kills each in the
game by senior Roberta Quis and junior Latisha Chapman, North Carolina eventually evened the score at 27 and 28. The
Tar Heels then won the final two points on consecutive kills by Pyles to clinch the match. Davidson was led
by Quis, who had 12 kills, and junior setter Nicole Tonelli, who recorded 34 assists.

The Wildcats return to Southern Conference action this weekend with matches at Western Carolina and Chattanooga. Davidson faces Western on
Saturday, Sept. 21, at 2 p.m., and Chattanooga the following day at 2 p.m. as well.

September 2002: Senior Success Series: Ongoing

PIGAPALOOZA, the Senior Class Barbeque sponsored by Dining Services, was a terrific success. Shannon Bishop and Leroy Butler announced the
Class of 2003’s Senior Gift progress, which is 66.7% pledged participation so far. Thanks to all who came out!

(Sponsored by the Career Services Office)
- Credential Review (Alvarez 414, 11 AM-12 Noon on Tuesdays; 2-3 PM on Fridays: cover letters, applications, personal statements)
- Ace the Interview (Alvarez 302, 4-5 PM)
- Business Etiquette (900 Room, 7 PM)
- Succeeding at a Career Fair (Alvarez 302, 1-2 PM)
- CAREER FAIR (Alvarez College Union Atrium, 11:30-2:30)

Senior Success Series continues into the fall semester.
