Phi Delt Fraternity House, Vandalism. Unknown person(s) threw a pumpkin against a window, causing it to break.

Lower Satellite Lot, Vandalism. Unknown person(s) caused damage to a vehicle by scraping a sharp object into the paint.

Hart Parking Area, Attempted Theft of Vehicle. Unknown person(s) broke a window and entered the vehicle in an attempt to
steal it.

Baker Sports Parking Area, Vandalism. Unknown person(s) broke a window out of a vehicle.

Bookstore Halloween Sale
October 31

25% Off
Clothing

General Books
(Excludes Textbooks)

Imprinted Gifts

Davidson College Bookstore
Hours: M-F: 8:15am - 5pm
Saturday: 10am - 1pm
(704) 894-2349

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS

Shine, from page 1

"fund it,” says Ahsan.

Ruth Pittard, the Assistant Dean of Community Service, chairs the selection committee, which reviews all proposals by Davidson students before
they are sent to the Sunshine Lady Foundation. Ahsan, Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrill, and English professor Shireen Campbell
also sit on this committee.

Students first must submit an application to the Davidson College selection committee that includes a brief description of the student’s
proposed project, inspiration, any involved non-profits, ideas for sustainability, and a tentative budget. The selection committee will review all applications
and choose “Sunbeams” by November 14. Sunbeams will then be eligible to receive grant money from the Sunshine Lady Foundation.
Before grants are awarded, though, staff at the Sunshine Lady Foundation must review each proposal and determine whether the project
complies with the foundation’s mission and guidelines. Selection as a Sunbeam by Davidson’s committee does not guarantee funding by the
Sunshine Lady Foundation.

Applications for Sunshine Lady Grants are collected in the fall semester and again in the spring. A maximum of six
grants can be awarded each year to Davidson students, and so far, students have taken advantage of the opportunity made
available by the Sunshine Lady, the sister of investment tycoon Warren Buffett. Although the Sunshine Lady Foundation does not usually
fund international projects because of tax reasons, international projects are possible by working through an American non-profit. For example, last
year, Kristin Nickel ’04, Nick Mantini ’03, and Dan Morris ’03 became Sunbeams when they proposed a plan to aid
children in Nicaragua. By working with the Doctors of Global Health, Nickel, Mantini, and Morris were able to give money
to Generaciones Alliance, a Davidson student organization that works internationally to fund the expansion of an education center for children
who live in the Managua city dump.

“Dos Generaciones is a cause that we believe in,” says Nickel, “and the Sunshine Lady grant gave us an opportunity
to support this cause. That’s what it’s all about.”

This year’s deadline for the Sunshine Lady Grant is November 8. Applications and more information about this grant and other
service opportunities are available at the Community Service Office on the fourth floor of Alvarez.

ATTENTION, PHOTOGRAPHERS!

SUBMISSIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR THE STUDENT PHOTOGRAPHY SHOW

America's #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips, earn cash, Travel Free

Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

Drop off your work—color, B&W, conventional, digital—at Sentelle 110 by Nov. 1. Entries will be displayed in the VAC Nov.
21 - Dec. 4.

ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardi Gras. TRAVEL FREE,
Reps Needed, EARN $$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1-888-THINK-SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626) www.springbreakdiscounts.com

For more info, email errosintoski, sastanhope, cahauser, or chpike.
