Strong starts for both tennis teams raise hope

By JONATHAN Crooms
Staff Writer

After the second week of the spring season, the men’s tennis team improved their record to 3-2. The Wildcats split
the weekend matches, capturing a closely contested home match against Liberty University and dropping a tough match against conference foe
University of South Carolina.

On Saturday morning, the Wildcats pulled out a tight match against the Liberty Flames, who returned several of their starters
from last season. The Wildcats continued their strong doubles play, as the team won two of three doubles matches, capturing
the doubles point. The doubles point proved to be the deciding point, as the Wildcats split the singles matches.

At number one doubles, sophomore Rob Haywood and freshman Donald Miles dropped their match, 8-6. At number two doubles, the
combination of senior Chad Winebarger and sophomore Rob Gould captured their match with an 8-4 victory. In the final doubles
pairing, senior David Webb and sophomore Jonathan Britt easily won 8-2.

In singles action, the ’Cats captured three of the six singles to earn them the victory over the Flames. Winebarger
led the team with a 6-3, 7-6 (2) victory at number one singles. The Wildcats showed their strength and depth
with strong victories at the number five and six singles positions. Miles and junior Geoff Mullen sealed the team’s victory
with 6-4, 6-4 and 6-3, 6-3 wins at their respective positions.

The ’Cats’ losses came at the number two, three, four, and five singles positions. David Webb and Jonathan Britt dropped
close matches at number two singles and number four singles with their respective 6-3, 6-4 and 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 losses.
At number three singles, Haywood also lost his match, 6-1, 6-3.

On Sunday morning, the Wildcats traveled to Columbia for an early morning match-up against the 31st nationally ranked South Carolina
Gamecocks. The Wildcats were defeated 7-0 by the stronger, more experienced Gamecocks. The bright moment of the match came from
Davidson’s tough number two doubles combination, Winebarger and Gould. The pair of crafty lefties captured an impressive 8-5 victory, improving
their personal season record to 4-1.

Despite strong play from the ’Cats, the Gamecocks easily captured the doubles point, as well as swept all of the
singles matches in straight sets. Despite Sunday’s loss against the Gamecocks, co-captain Winebarger asserts that the young Wildcat team has
shown a lot of progress, noting, “Up and down the lineup, these were the best matches of the season. The
singles is starting to catch up with the doubles.” Winebarger’s doubles partner, Gould, noted that the “USC match brought out
the best in everyone’s game which we can hopefully carry into the rest of the season.” Although both lost, Winebarger
and Webb significantly stepped up their games in the team’s effort against USC.

By Ante Snavicy
Staff Writer

“The way I look at it, if you have a strong desire to accomplish something, it will happen.” Following the
words of junior captain Yasamina Hilu, the desire of the women’s tennis team proved too great for its opponents this
weekend. In impressive fashion, the women’s tennis team dominated both UNC-Asheville and Liberty to start the 2002 season with a
2-0 mark.

The season opener against Asheville on February 7 has set the tone for the Wildcats’ season, having only dropped one
game during the match. The Wildcats followed that up with a similar result: a shutout. Having only dropped five games
on the afternoon, the Wildcats coasted to an easy victory.

Number one doubles Fillnow and Fillnow dominated Andrea Cotuna and Maria Solc for an 8-0 win. Number two doubles Patterson
and Hatch also brought home a shutout with an 8-0 win over Carrie Cragen and Amber Barrett. Cantrell and Hilu
rounded out the doubles with an easy 8-0 win over Alison Cho and Elizabeth Cleavenger.

In singles match-ups, Kelly Fillnow pulled out the number one win, defeating Cotuna 6-1, 6-2. Patterson dominated Solc with a
6-1, 6-0 win, while number three Cantrell shut out Cragen 6-0, 6-0. Team captain Yasamina Hilu led the team with
a strong performance, and freshmen twins Kelly and Meghan Fillnow followed in similar fashion.Spot, freshman Meggie Patterson and sophomore Katherine
Hatch shut USC. With each ensuing match and strong leadership from Winebarger and Webb, the Wildcats are beginning to gel
and come together as a team. With a week to rest and practice, the Wildcats will focus their attention and
look to carry their solid team effort into next Sunday’s home match against UNC-Asheville.

Indoor track squads compete in Chapel Hill
By Liz Gross & Jimmy Swansbrough
Staff Writers

Do you hear that noise? It’s the sound of records shattering for the men’s indoor track and field team. At
the Carolina Fast Times Indoor Track Meet last weekend, the Wildcats continued a record-breaking streak that started two weeks ago,
when Dan Gibson lowered the school mile record by more than a second. The invitational featured a strong field of
teams from the state, including UNC, NC State, Charlotte, Western Carolina, and Appalachian State.

The men’s distance medley relay came through on Saturday by shaving almost four seconds from the previous school record. The
young team of sophomore Greg Scott (1200m), freshman Paul Wyatt (400m), sophomore Chris Rouisse (800m), and sophomore Colby Broadwater (mile)
placed fifth in the race with a time of 10:50.08. The previous school record of 10:53.97 had been set in
1998.

After being named Southern Conference Player of the Week, senior co-captain Dan Gibson continued his impressive start to the season
by competing in the 3000m on Saturday, adding distance to the mile that he ran two weeks ago. His time
of 8:36.98 earned him fifth place in a field of thirty-one runners as he finished nine seconds behind the leader.
He was followed by sophomore teammate Dave Bunge, who completed the race in 9:14.02. Other top ten finishes belonged to
junior Brad Becken and freshman Kevin Bell in the 5000m run. Becken placed 9th with a time of 16:20.66, followed
by Bell in 10th with a time of 16:41.35.

The Davidson sprinters continued to improve their times as nearly every competitor marked a season’s best last weekend. The Wildcats
were led by junior co-captain Greg Schernecke in the 200m dash. Schernecke placed 19th with a time of 23.55, a
.22 second improvement over his performance two weekends ago. The men’s 4x400m relay also performed well, running a 3:38.49 that
placed them 10th in the field.

The Wildcat women performed well in the distance events. In the 5000-meter, sophomores Laura Puckett and Emily Einstein both finished
in the top 10. Puckett ran an 18:36.37 to place fifth, while Einstein’s time of 19:29.84 was good enough for
the ninth spot. In other action, the women placed third in the 4x800 relay with a time of 10:44.69.

The men will return to competition next weekend as they travel to Columbia, SC, for the Gamecock Indoor Open. The
women have two weeks to prepare for the Southern Conference Championships, to be held Feb. 22-23 in Johnson City, TN.

Nancy Liversay and Ashley Jones 8-0. Finally, in the third spot, senior captain Kelley Cantrell and Hilu dominated Emily Aker-Estes
and Stacey Witkowski with an 8-0 shutout. In the singles line-up, number one seed Kelly Fillnow outscored Shuba 6-2, 6-0
to earn her first collegiate win. In the two spot, Petterson cinched her first collegiate win against Cox with a
6-2, 6-3 win. Hilu came in at the third spot, dominating Liversay 6-1, 6-1. Cantrell, in the four spot, shut
out her opponent Jones, while Meghan Fillnow, in her first collegiate appearance, and Hatch defeated Aker-Estes and Witkowski, 6-0, 6-1,
respectively.

After their impressive opener, the Wildcats returned to the courts on February 9 to take on the Liberty Flames. Coach
Price, sticking with the Wildcats’ 2-0 start, fashion, shutting out Cleavenger 6-0, 6-0. Hilu, in the five spot, dominated Cho,
6-1, 6-0, while Hatch ended with a shutout against Barrett, 6-0, 6-0.

With such a strong start to the season, the seniors are happy with the team’s effort. "We have the most
talented team and the best team chemistry of any in my four years here,” commented Cantrell. "Our five freshmen have
added to our depth and brought a high level of intensity, so they’re pushing the upperclassmen to work harder.” Senior
Katie Brooks agreed. "This is the strongest team I have been a part of in four years at Davidson. We
have upperclassmen experience, but the freshmen also add incredible talent and maturity to our team.”

The Wildcats are looking for two more shutouts this week, hosting High Point on Feb. 13 at 3 p.m. and
UNC Wilmington on Feb. 16 at noon.
