By JONATHAN Crooms Staff Writer

After the first week of the spring season, a young but talented Davidson College men’s tennis team posted a 2-1
record. On Thursday, the Wildcats opened up their season with a 7-0 loss to ACC opponent and 34th nationally ranked
University of North Carolina. A stronger, more experienced Tar Heel team handed the Wildcats their first loss, neatly capturing the
doubles point and easily winning all singles matches in straight sets.

On Saturday, the Wildcats opened up their home season with consecutive wins against Charlotte foes Belmont Abbey College and Queens
College. In early morning action, the Wildcats defeated Belmont Abbey Crusaders 5-2. Strong volleys and solid returns allowed the ’Cats
to capture the doubles point, as all three doubles teams easily won. Sophomores Rob Haywood and Jonathan Britt, freshman Donald
Miles, and junior Geoff Mullen each won their singles matches in straight sets at the #3, 4, 5, and 6
singles positions, while the only losses of the match came at the racquets of senior captains Chad Winebarger and David
Webb at #1 and #2 singles.

In afternoon action, the Wildcats dominated Queens College with a 6-1 victory. Davidson overpowered the Royals, once again capturing the
doubles point with strong volleying and solid returning. With exception to Winebarger’s straight-set loss at #1 singles, the Wildcats defeated
their opponents quickly and easily. Webb, Britt, and Mullen contributed wins at the #2, #3, and #4 singles positions. Sophomore
Bryan Stonestreet, who pulled out the match-clinching win against Charleston in 2001, won at #5 singles. Freshman Russ Burns earned
his first collegiate victory with a decisive win at the #6 singles position.

Men’s tennis set to serve up strong season

Although highly talented, youth and inexperience characterize the 2002 Davidson men’s tennis team. After graduating #1 doubles, #1, #2, and
#4 singles last season, head coach Jeff Frank and assistant coach Scott Briggs will be turning to senior captains Winebarger
and David Webb for leadership. “They’re doing a good job keeping the guys motivated,” commented Coach Frank. Both captains, who
were major contributing members to the team’s success last season, are the only returning singles starters. Winebarger, who posted impressive
wins against James Madison University and Liberty University at #3 singles in 2001, will lead the team at the #1
singles position. Webb, who pulled out the match-clinching win against Georgia Southern University at #5 singles last season, will also
be guiding the team at #2 singles.

Although the team is inexperienced, Coach Frank is excited about the season, noting, “Our strength this year is our depth.”
At the #3 and #4 singles positions, sophomores Haywood and Britt will prove formidable challenges for opponents. Although neither have
much experience in the starting lineup, both have explosive games that make them contenders in any match. At the #5
and #6 singles positions, freshman Miles and junior Mullen will give the Wildcats the needed depth to make Davidson a
solid opponent in the Southern Conference. In addition, Coach Frank will be able to depend on several other strong players
as needed. Stonestreet, who played consistently well at #6 singles last season, could step in and provide some singles victories.
Burns, sophomore Nick Lewis, and junior Leroy Butler also have the potential to contribute to the team this season.

The Wildcats’ doubles combinations also reflect the team’s inexperience. At the #1 doubles position, Haywood, who played with Webb at
#3 doubles position during the 2001 season, will be teaming up with freshman standout Miles. At the #2 doubles position
will be the tough lefty duo of senior Winebarger and sophomore Rob Gould. Winebarger and Gould are the only returning
doubles combination from the 2001 season. Chad and Rob posted impressive doubles victories against the University of South Carolina and
UT-Chattanooga last season. At #3 doubles, Webb, who played with Haywood last season, and Britt will be teaming up to
form the ’Cats’ final doubles position.

Coach Frank expects the season to be a formidable challenge for such a young team, saying, “It’s going to take
a while for this team to gel.” In addition to so many inexperienced players moving into the starting line-ups, Coach
Frank has added some non-traditional opponents to a schedule traditionally dominated by intense Southern Conference matches. The Wildcats will face
University of Pennsylvania, Marquette University, University of Alabama-Birmingham, and the University of Memphis this season. After this week’s action, the
Wildcats will be focusing their attention on next weekend’s upcoming matches against Liberty University and the University of South Carolina.
“Liberty will be the first big test,” commented Coach Frank. Davidson handily defeated the Flames.Last season, but the return of
several starters could make Liberty a challenging opponent for the Wildcats. Following Saturday’s home match against Liberty, the Wildcats will
travel to Columbia to face off against the Gamecocks of South Carolina, a team that has consistently performed well in
the SEC, for a Sunday morning match-up.

Cheerleading, from page 12

So does cheerleading require athleticism? Spitz again gave me the answer I was looking for. “Our girls are athletic. We
run, jump, dance, tumble, and throw girls in the air, and we smile while we are doing it.” As a
self-proclaimed athlete, I can only do two out of six of the aforementioned tasks. I'm convinced. Perhaps, then, cheerleaders are
something other than athletes, a different breed of sorts. They’ve got something extra that most of us don’t. As the
incomparable Jon Davis ’03 aptly sums it up, “They have a real spark.”

Baseball, from page 12

The Wildcats will be Frend in left, senior Steven Aldrich in center, and, although right field is wide open due
to the loss of both Stoker and Parvin, freshman Sam Navarro appears to be the frontrunner for the job. Behind
the plate, Cooke can turn to either of his co-captains, but as a result of Ryan’s off-season shoulder surgery, it
is probable that he will be used as a designated hitter, with Marino taking over as starting catcher. The season
begins with a five-game home stand starting next Tuesday, as Davidson hosts ACC powerhouse Wake Forest, a team that finished
in the top 20 of every poll in 2001 and has advanced to the NCAA tournament in each of the
past four years. With 31 home games, the 2002 Wildcats seem primed to improve on last season’s record and head
to the postseason, where they will look to capture the first conference title in Davidson history.

Last Wednesday, the regular swimming and diving season came to an end as the Wildcats hosted the Duke Blue Devils
at Cannon Pool. Facing stiff competition, the Wildcats fell to the Devils; the women lost 150-93, the men 123-92. The
women end the season with a record of 2-11, and the men are 2-10. The men had some outstanding performances
in the freestyle. Graham Gravley ’02 touched the wall first in 9:54.87 in the 1000 free. For the second meet
in a row, Mike Warner ’02 won both the 50 and 100 with times of 21.93 and 48.57, respectively. Michael
Flowers ’05 placed second in the 500 free. His time of 4:46.70 allowed him to join the Davidson top 10
for that event. Continuing to dominate in diving, Chris Wrobleksi ’05 won the one-meter and the three-meter diving events. Finally,
the 200 free relay team of Nick Blackwell ’02, Lauren Ropars ’03, Nathaniel Wittstruck ’05, and Michael Flowers ’05 earned
another victory for the Wildcats.

On the women’s side, Jenny Hoekstra ’05 won the 100 free and placed second in the 50. Kendra Bemer ’02,
Shelley Conroy ’02, Erin Rosintoski ’04, and Jenny Hoekstra ’05 won the 200 free relay in 1:43.09. Winning the 200-medley
relay were Tricia Blackwell ’05, Vanessa Witt ’04, Melissa Marquez ’05, and Jamie Sansafar ’05. The women also had several
second-place finishes: Erin Rosintoski ’04 in the 200 free, Melissa Marquez in the 200 IM and the 100 breast, and
Sara Laws ’04 in the 100 back. Next up for the Wildcats are the Colonial Athletic Association (CAA) Championships, February
21-24 in Fairfax, Virginia.

Before pinning wrestlers

By AMANDA MORDAVSKY
Staff Writer

On February 1, the Wildcat wrestlers traveled to Durham, NC to take on the Duke Blue Devils. Unfortunately, the Cats
were unable to score any points, losing the match 49-0. Competition began in the 149-pound bracket, matching up Davidson junior
Grant Doornbos with Duke’s Luke Palaisano. Palaisano came out strong, beating Doornbos 8-3. In the second match, Davidson senior captain
Jeff Bender (157) was paired against Duke’s Ben Balmages. Bender entered the competition with five consecutive victories but broke his
streak with a 10-6 loss. In the closest match of the day, Davidson sophomore Mo Idlibi (165) challenged Duke’s Tom
Glenn. Going into the last period, the wrestlers were tied 2-2, but with two takedowns, Glenn won the match 7-3.
The final match-up came between Davidson junior Mark O’Hair (174) and Duke’s Mike Mitchell, who won the match decisively, 9-1.
With the win, Mitchell earned his twentieth career victory. Sidelined with a torn LCL, junior Adam Sperling was unable to
wrestle and will sit out the rest of the season. With its lack of wrestlers, Davidson was forced to forfeit
the remaining match-ups. Once again, the competition did not count as a team competition, as NCAA regulations require a team
to have at least seven members competing. Bender commented on the team’s performance, “Though we were in better shape, we
fell short due to small but significant errors. We continue to work hard every day.”
