Top play company treats Davidson to Merchant

By Kat WAGENHEIM
Special Contributor

For those of you who haven’t seen the welcome banner hanging over Main Street or haven’t observed the fliers hanging up on the walls of Chambers or haven’t heard the buzz among the English professors, the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) has arrived at Davidson College. The professional acting company, with homes in London, Stratford-upon-Avon, and also Newcastle, will employ over fifty of its members here at Davidson from February 18 to March 2.

Davidson will host the RSC as they perform 11 shows of The Merchant of Venice, lead panel discussions, and conduct lectures for the general public. During their stay, the actors and production staff will direct students in performing Shakespeare’s sonnets, take visitors on a behind-the-scenes tour of the Merchant of Venice set, and share their knowledge of Shakespeare’s texts and their expertise in drama techniques with a number of Davidson classes.

While the company has built a reputation and a name for its depictions of Shakespearean dramas, they also perform plays by other classical writers and contemporary playwrights. This talented group of actors works within a variety of genres and periods which range in scope from Hamlet to Les Miserables to The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe. The company has also produced a number of instantly recognizable names and acclaimed thespians. Kenneth Branagh, Judi Dench, and Ralph Fiennes are just a few of the many acting legends to have worked in the RSC.

Since the company’s establishment in 1960, they have extended from their three home theaters in William Shakespeare’s birthplace, Stratford-upon-Avon, to working in several venues in London, Newcastle, and the United States. They are currently developing a plan for a theater village in Shakespeare’s hometown that would combine educational programs and entertaining performances at the popular tourist attraction. The project will incorporate a new playhouse on the current site of the Royal Shakespeare Theater and auditoriums that place the audience in closer contact with the performers.

Shakespearian shares knowledge with Davidson

Press RELEASE
Campus Communications

John Barton, “the man who wrote the book on Shakespeare,” will present four master classes on the Bard’s sonnets as a highlight of educational events associated with the upcoming 12-day residency of the Royal Shakespeare Company at Davidson College. (A full list of public events appears at the end of this release.)

The sessions are entitled “How Shakespeare’s Text Helps the Actor: Masterclasses by John Barton.” Barton, co-founder of the Royal Shakespeare Company, will be on stage coaching pre-selected students and professionals about using the text to effectively perform Shakespeare’s sonnets. The masterclasses are intended for a large audience of observers, and are free and open to the public. They will be held in Hodson Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building from 3:30-6:30 p.m. on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, February 21, 22, and 23. The masterclass on Sunday, February 24, will be held from 1-4 p.m. in Rowe Recital Hall on the campus of UNC Charlotte.

They are among more than 50 educational events scheduled during the coming residency, February 18-March 2, and many are open to the public. They include workshops for public school teachers, a behind-the-scenes look at the production of the play, post-show discussions about “The Merchant of Venice,” a lecture on anti-Semitism in Shakespeare’s time, work with many Davidson College classes, and actor visits to after-school workshops, a homeless shelter, and a retirement community. The educational effort is being led by Clare Venables, director of education for the RSC, and Virginia Grainger, head of the education and community program for the RSC’s regional tour. For a full schedule of educational events, visit www.davidson.edu/rsc or call 704-894-2643.

Sir Peter Hall invited John Barton to become assistant director when Hall founded the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1959. For the next 30 years, Barton was an RSC associate director, and he now serves as an advisory director. He was also an acclaimed fight director, choreographing elaborate sequences for many productions throughout the 1960s and 1970s. His book, Playing Shakespeare, and an accompanyingThe video series produced for the BBC are standards in high school and collegiate English and drama classes across the nation. John Barton has written and adapted more than 35 works for theatre, notably, The Hollow Crown (1961), The Wars of The Roses, with Peter Hall (1963), The Greeks (1980), Morte D’Arthur (1983), and Tantalus (2000). Tantalus, which took more than a decade to complete, is a 10-play cycle developed from The Greeks that deals with the Trojan War in the context of myth and storytelling. Tantalus premiered in Denver in October 2000 and the United Kingdom last year.

Barton is renowned for his Shakespeare workshops and masterclasses. His unique form of teaching has inspired actors in both theatre and film. A new documentary about Barton’s work with American screen and theatre actors, entitled Shakespeare in America, will be issued later this year. His wife, Anne Barton, is the author of Shakespeare and the Idea of the Play, and some of the best Shakespeare commentary on Shakespeare’s plays in The Riverside Shakespeare. His masterclasses at Davidson will be especially valuable since Barton, now more than 80 years old, rarely makes such presentations in the United States. The series will appeal to people interested in acting, poetry, Shakespeare, history, and even psychology, according to Cynthia Lewis, Dana Professor of English at Davidson. In addition, she said, teachers will learn about effective strategies for reaching students through Barton’s theatrical style of instruction. Lewis, who has participated in several workshops either led or inspired by Barton, said, “Most people find his slightly eccentric mannerisms quite endearing. Watching him work is tremendously appealing.”

Barton has coached some of Britain’s finest actors, including Peggy Ashcroft, Judi Dench, Donald Sinden, Ian McKellen, Jeremy Irons, Patrick Stewart, Ben Kingsley, David Suchet, Helen Mirren, Peter O’Toole, Jane Lapotaire, and Harriet Walter. Lewis said his masterclasses seek to help actors understand the importance of “suiting the action to Shakespeare’s word, and the word to the action.” She continued, “He focuses on how the text creates images in the minds of both actors and audience, and he explains the meaning of words and phrases that were written in the Elizabethan era.”

Barton presents an objective analysis of how Shakespeare’s text actually works, examining the use of verse and prose, set speeches and soliloquies, and language and character. He also concentrates on the more subjective areas such as irony and ambiguity, passion and coolness.

The Royal Shakespeare Company will perform The Merchant of Venice in Davidson’s newly built 600-seat Duke Performance Hall, adjacent to the Alvarez Student Union. This comedic play, which is set in Belmont, touches on issues of anti-Semitism, betrayal, and justice. In between performances, the RSC will hold educational sessions on everything from voice development and gesturing to discussions on feminism and music in The Merchant of Venice. They will work with groups ranging from Davidson College students to public school teachers to children from a homeless shelter in Charlotte. If you can’t make one of the performances, the RSC will certainly be available for other appearances. With the wide variety of events, lectures, and in-class discussions, you will most likely have the chance to encounter a member of this esteemed acting group in a program of your choice. So even if you overlooked all the signs, talk, and excitement about the Royal Shakespeare Company’s residency at Davidson, be sure not to miss its debut on campus.

The troupe will also produce 11 performances of The Merchant of Venice between February 22 and March 2, with tickets going on sale to the public Wednesday, January 16. Reservations can be made by calling 704-892-2135 beginning on that date, and more information on the production is also available at the website.

Ian Gelder (left) and Hermione Gulliford of the Royal Shakespeare Company. The RSC is at Davidson until March 3.