24 Hour Party People: Manchester’s post-punk adventure — By Curtis SCHMADER Arts & Living Editor

24 Hour Party People wastes no time plunging its audience into the extreme subjectivity of its principal character; namely, Tony Wilson, co-founder of the Manchester, U.K.-based Factory Records, resident guru of the post-punk club scene that flourished in the same city from 1976 to 1992, and promoter of such bands as the darkly intense Joy Division and the hedonistic Happy Mondays. The film begins with Wilson, a lowly regional television journalist, preparing to hang-glide. After crashing into the base of a hill, he directly addresses the camera and tells us that he has one word for us: “Icarus.” All too appropriate, since the movie unfolds like the flight of an Icarus on Ecstasy: by turns thrilling and disorienting, but always striving for an incredible high.

Although loosely representative of the historical figure of the same name, the character we meet in 24 Hour Party People is more like Tony Wilson the legend as self-consciously portrayed by the actor Steve Coogan. Mr. Coogan, who gives a hilariously deadpan performance as the endearingly self-inflating Wilson, repeatedly draws attention to the film’s tendency to distort the facts. As such, he’s not to be trusted as a narrator; upon making one exaggerated claim, he justifies his light handling of the truth by quoting a John Ford film: “Print the legend.” Director Michael Winterbottom and screenwriter Frank Cottrell Boyce have heeded this advice, doing their best to blur the line between fact and fiction as they recount Wilson’s quixotic career.

Here, the legend filmed is that of the Manchester music scene that grew out of punk in the late '70s and evolved into the beginnings of rave culture by the late '80s. Wilson claims to have originated this scene by founding Factory Records, a label that doesn’t bind any of its artists to contracts, thus leaving nothing to sell out when the opportunity arises. He even goes so far as to sign the original Factory charter in his own blood as Joy Division looks on.

The film’s generally thin, unclear characterizations may bewilder most American viewers, but they’re worth looking past in order to see through the eyes of our unreliable narrator. At any given point in the movie, the cultural explosion in progress captivates him. The early scene in which Wilson and his first wife Lindsay attend the first Sex Pistols show in Manchester could serve as a template for the rest of the movie as it conflates history with legend by interweaving footage of the Sex Pistols with that of the actors. Later, in a characteristically absurd moment, Wilson compares the historical import of the Sex Pistols show to that of the Last Supper.

Red Dragon By CHARLES CUMMINS Staff Writer

With the long-awaited opening of Red Dragon last Friday, Sir Anthony Hopkins returns to the role of Dr. Hannibal “the Cannibal” Lecter that he made famous. What few moviegoers know is that while his performance as Lecter made audiences shiver in Silence of the Lambs and its sequel Hannibal, Hopkins did not originate the role. In fact, the original Dr. Hannibal Lecter was renowned Scottish-born actor Brian Cox, who portrayed the psychiatrist with a thirst for “[hu- man] liver with some fava beans and a nice Chianti” in Michael Mann’s 1986 adaptation of Thomas Harris’ book Red Dragon called Manhunter.

Without the services of Anthony Hopkins or the all-star cast of the remake, Manhunter skillfully portrays the cat-and-mouse game between FBI Detective Will Graham and The Tooth Fairy, a killer on the lookout for his next victim family. In a prologue to the opening credits, we see the slow entrance of an unknown intruder into a wealthy-looking home. The camera offers the audience a Point of View angle shot in which we see what the intruder sees. Going from bedroom to bedroom, he finally stops at the master bedroom. With the flashlight blazing, the intruder (and the audience) focuses upon a sleeping wife and husband. As the wife arises to the blinding light, the screen fades to a black screen and the title. Soon, we the audience see the bloody aftermath of that intrusion.

After thus being introduced to the killer, we are subsequently introduced to Will Graham (William Peterson), a retired detective who is requested to return to aid in the capture of one last killer, the Tooth Fairy, before he strikes again. Reluctantly, Graham agrees. Thus begins the intense rush to find the killer or his next intended family of victims before he gets to them first. The film focuses on the cat-and-mouse game between Graham and The Tooth Fairy (who calls himself The Red Dragon). In order to visually convey this game, the film, particularly in the second half, alternates between Graham’s investigation and The Red Dragon’s search for another victim.

In one of the most memorable and well-done sequences from early in the film, Will Graham begins the investigation with a nighttime search of the latest family’s home. As the camera again takes a Point of View angle in which we see what Graham sees, Graham slowly climbs the stairs and inspects the blood-soaked rooms, in an eerily similar manner to that of the killer during the prologue of the film. Thus, the connection between Graham and the Red Dragon is visually conveyed. As Graham becomes more and more obsessed with catching the killer over the course of the film, he gets closer and closer until the final showdown with the Red Dragon.

So how does the infamous Hannibal Lecter fit into this picture? Brian Cox’s Hannibal Lecter is confined here to the similar role Hopkins shared in Silence of the Lambs — that of a consultant to the desperate FBI detective. However, Dr. Hannibal Lecter is here limited to three scenes (if I counted correctly).Reputation for being an industrial wasteland, but by the end of the film, Tony Wilson the legend has painted a captivating portrait of his beloved hometown as a city of unlimited possibility. Though he does acknowledge evils such as (lead singer of Joy Division) Ian Curtis’s suicide, problems with guns and drugs at his famous club the Hacienda, and the extraordinarily bad business practices of Factory Records, he never lets them compromise his celebratory vision of Manchester and its music scene. Thankfully, 24 Hour Party People ends on a high note, as Wilson presides over the final night at the Hacienda by encouraging the wildly happy partygoers to loot the club’s offices before they leave. We see the peak of Icarus’s ascent, but we’re spared the spectacle of watching him fall.

Talented cast prepares powerful, touching Anne Frank
By Andy Heston
Staff Writer

In the first moments of Frances Goodrich’s and Albert Hackett’s drama adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank, the Frank family walks with trepidation into the tiny annex in which they must live in fear of the Nazi regime for an indefinite amount of time. For the first thirty seconds or so, not a word is spoken, but it is nonetheless a powerful scene. The fear, the confusion, the uncertainty, all of the conflicting emotions one would expect of a normal middle-class family in an unthinkable situation are present in the faces of the four members of the Frank family as they face their bleak and uncertain future.

In many ways, the confusion present at the heart of this first scene prevails throughout the play. It is simultaneously about the resilience and brutality of the human spirit, the joys and the agonies of adolescence, the love and the hate experienced between a child and her parents, the revulsion and intrigue caused by members of the opposite sex, and the hopelessness and strange optimism of Jews living in Nazi-occupied Amsterdam. In short, it is a play as confused as only a thirteen-year-old girl can be, and makes us all into 'confused' and awkward adolescents struggling to understand coming of age in the Holocaust.

And Anne, that thirteen-year-old girl, is by far the center of the play’s attention. Beth Gardner, last seen in Boy Gets Girl, does a superb job with an incredibly complex and difficult character. She seems to effortlessly portray Anne’s incredible vivacity and optimism as well as her self-centeredness and immaturity. The defining characteristic of Anne, especially as played by Gardner, is that of innocence struggling not to become disenchanted with the ever-intensifying hatred of the world. In the first moments of the play, while the rest of her family seems overwhelmed at the prospect of living in the tiny annex and the future in store for them, Anne alone is optimistic and naively excited: the presence of a cat in the annex seems more prevalent in her consciousness than the fact her family has been forced from its home. It's truly touching to see such an incredible spirit and watch it be silenced by the Nazis.

The rest of the cast is no less talented, and all do equally superb jobs with their roles. It is a diverse group with regard to previous theater experience, yet together they possess an undeniable chemistry. It transfers off the stage as well: in rehearsal, they are relaxed, easygoing, and friendly with each other. Yet they are also dedicated to doing justice to an incredibly difficult play, set during an incredibly difficult time. The Holocaust is still a raw nerve nearly sixty years after its horrific crimes were committed, and this group seems to have put no small effort into attempting to truly understand the mindset of victims in a world gone mad, and they portray such confusion with flying colors.

While the cast was joking around after the rehearsal, one of them remarked something to the effect of, “We should advertise this as a musical. More people would come.” Such is the plight of the serious play. Anne Frank is thoroughly entertaining, yet also very unsettling. It’s a story many people would like to forget, and yet a story that must be told. There is an interesting dynamic at work, performing a Jewish play at a Presbyterian school, and for that matter a Presbyterian school that hosted the greatest theatre company in the world performing what is in many ways an anti-Semitic play. Yet where The Merchant of Venice mocked Jewish stereotypes, The Diary of Anne Frank celebrates the indomitable spirit that has defined Judaism for centuries. There are more than a few unanswered questions within The Diary of Anne Frank. But that’s what makes it such an incredible play.

The Diary of Anne Frank runs Oct. 23 through the 27.

Beth Gardner ‘03 as Anne Frank

Aspects of Hannibal Lector’s character are learned through the dialogue of other characters. Here, the focus remains on Graham and the Red Dragon. If the theatrical trailer for Red Dragon is any indication, Hopkins’s Hannibal Lector will play a much more prominent role, allowed for by showing what is alluded to in Manhunter through flashbacks and other techniques. While I hope that this balance between Hannibal Lector and the search for the Red Dragon can be maintained as well as it was with Buffalo Bill in Silence of The Lambs, I fear the worst — that Red Dragon will become an average attempt to complete the Sir Anthony Hopkins / Hannibal Lector trilogy and reap the financial benefits in the process. However, keeping in mind Hopkins’ work in the first two films, I’m still eagerly anticipating the latest installment. But if you’re stuck outside a sold-out showing of Red Dragon, head over to one of our three local (Exit 28, 25, or 23) Blockbusters and pick up Manhunter. You won’t be disappointed in this great cop/killer thriller, because “Hannibal Lector’s legacy of evil begins here.” Watch for our review of Red Dragon in the next issue.