Davidson COLLEGE

Election 2002

Above: students gather in the union to watch the election results roll in Tuesday night.
Right: political science professor Pat Sellers is apparently pleased with the outcome.

STUDENTS' POLITICAL LEANINGS

“Where do you fall?”

801 Davidson students were invited to take a survey distributed by Dr. Pat Sellers’ Public Opinion class. Data is based on responses of 437 students. “Democrat” includes all those students categorizing themselves as strong Democrats, not very strong Democrats, or Democratic-leaning Independents; “Republican” indicates those who are strong Republicans, not very strong Republicans, or Republican-leaning Independents.

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

One of the nation’s most outspoken social scholars will visit Davidson later this month. Dr. Cornel West, a best-selling author and often-controversial critic of race relations in America, will speak in the Duke Family Performance Hall at 7 p.m. on Thursday, Nov. 21. The topic is democracy and race in America.

Tickets are free and available at the Union ticket office Monday. A public reception after the talk will allow people to speak personally with West, said Andrew Yancey, chairman of the Union Board Speaker’s Committee.

“We want this to be an event that sparks intellectual controversy on campus,” he said. “Our goal is not to promote one side of an idea, but to bring in someone you can debate with.

Republican

40.96 %

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 9

Poll finds students lean left

Most on campus call themselves Democrats, “liberal”

By Caroline K. Hauser
News Editor

Davidson, which perpetually bills itself as “a highly selective independent liberal arts college for 1,600 students” can add “politically liberal” to the pitch.

A recent survey by political science professor Dr. Pat Sellers’ Public Opinion class found that, despite commonly held conceptions of the school as a conservative stronghold, Davidson students tend to lean left.

Of 437 students responding, a whole 50.1 percent described themselves as either a strong Democrat, not very strong Democrat, or Democratic-leaning Independent.

The more elephantine respondents posted strong numbers but came in second with 41.0 percent of the campus ranging from Republican-leaning Independent to strong Republican.

Rather than rely solely on party identification, though, respondents also characterized their political ideology on a range of one to seven, where one indicates strong liberal tendencies and seven signifies strong conservative leanings. Here, 45.9 percent of students answering the question characterized themselves as strong liberals, not very strong liberals, or liberal-leaning moderates.

Just 34.1 percent swung right, from conservative-leaning moderates to strong conservatives. The remaining twenty percent are perched firmly on the fence as definite moderates. According to Sellers, the anonymous survey was emailed to 801 randomly selected students, and over 50 percent of those students responded.

“We randomly selected the respondents from the student body,” said Sellers, “and we have responses from about one quarter of the student body. So the sample is likely to be representative, and it is unlikely that one portion of the student body, such as liberals or Republicans, is over-represented.”

Despite the methodical approach of the survey, many have a hard time believing the results. President Bobby Vagt responded to the numbers with a shocked look. “You could knock me over with a feather,” he said. “I would have bet a big chunk of change that the numbers would have been reversed.”

Even the Public Opinion class was surprised by the response. “The results certainly don’t fit the conservative reputation of the student body,” said Sellers. “In my classes, conservatives are usually more outspoken than liberals. It’s also important to consider, however, how Davidson compares to other schools. Our student body may still be more conservative than those at other schools, particularly small liberal arts colleges like Williams or Carleton.”

Travis Lee ’04, a College Republican, took the response more in stride. “These numbers are not completely surprising,” he said. “I believe that many people, particularly college students, classify themselves as liberal to escape the stigma that accompanies declaring one’s self conservative. Many of those who claimed to be left or left-leaning did so, I think, because they see it as the sensitive thing to do—to be fashionably liberal.”

Lee continued, “I would love to see the numbers regarding political activity. Both ends of the ideological spectrum on this campus are

see Politics, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Elizabeth Dole is North Carolina's newest senator. See story, page 4.

News 1-4
How do students spend time? Survey, p.4

Arts & Living 5-6
Dance Ensemble fall recital, p.5

Perspectives 7-8
The State of the Union Cafe Address, p.7

Sports 9-12
Soccer hopes dashed, see page 12