DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2002

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 16

GPAs increase in newly corrected grade report:

Computer program glitch produces incorrect figures; houses are re-evaluated

By JESSICA MERING
Editor in Chief

Registrar Hansford Epes declared on Thursday a Patterson Court-published report on grade point averages incorrect. The data, which was calculated and published by the Patterson Court Office, has been corrected.

Information Technology Services worked with the Patterson Court Office last semester to create a computer program capable of calculating the average GPA in each house. It also organized other data about GPAs, like the averages for both male and female Court members and independents. It reported the average campus GPA for fall 2001 as 2.83. According to Epes, the actual number is 3.13.

The registrar’s office provided students’ individual fall GPAs; these numbers were entered correctly into the system. The program, however, also included space for the GPAs of Davidson students studying off-campus last semester.

“The error appears to be a data organiza-

see GPAs, page 2

Mock Trial 2002

Young Democrats Co-President Sean Brooks ‘04 presents a Davidson t-shirt to Congressman Mel Watt, representative for North Carolina’s 12th district. See story on page 5.

Domino’s Pizza will soon accept CatCards

Victory: One of Davidson’s three mock trial teams won a bid to the Southeastern Regional Mock Trial Tournament in Greenville, SC, the weekend of Feb. 1. See story on page 5.

Radio show sparks campus controversy

Media board will review WALT programming; hosts call first show “a mistake”

By MATT GARFIELD
Managing Editor

The hosts of a controversial new campus radio show promise to avoid personal attacks against students in response to criticism from listeners and administrators, who were offended by its aggressive, sometimes profane format.

Sophomores Ryan Carvalho and Mbye Njie have hosted “The Black Man and the Mexican” on WALT 1610 AM for the past three Sunday nights from 9 to 11 p.m.

One of about 20 weekly student talk shows broadcast from WALT’s studio on the top floor of the Alvarez Student Union, the duo takes calls focusing on topics like fraternity stereotypes, dance floor gossip and school sports.

The Media Board, comprised of nine faculty members and students, will soon meet for the first time this academic year to decide whether the show’s content violates standards of community decency—a decision that could potentially lead to the show’s cancellation.

The Judicial Board will also soon deliberate on a Code of Conduct charge brought against a caller on the show’s first episode.

On Sunday night’s third episode, callers were asked to submit “Dumb Ass of the Week” nominations and a sophomore called

see WALT, page 7

Despite legal problems, contract with Domino’s nears completion

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

Though it has taken much longer than SGA anticipated, Davidson students will hopefully be able to purchase Domino’s delivery pizza with their CatCards in less than two weeks.

The project, organized by former Chairman of Auxiliary Services Gray Patterson ‘03, was begun in September 2001 as the third step in a plan to expand the scope of uses for which Davidson students can use their CatCards. The first step in the plan was the addition of CatCard readers on the library’s copy machines, followed by adding readers on vending machines around campus.

So why has it taken five months to begin negotiations on the CatCard’s pizza-purchasing ability? Patterson, who is now SGA Vice President, explained that two major questions influenced the SGA’s ability to press forward in the matter: Would the school allow it? If so, with whom will we conduct business?

The first question turned out to be a difficult one. Because Davidson College is a non-profit institution, it is exempt from the payment of income taxes. According to director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry, any commercial service that is provided to students must be purely for the convenience of Davidson’s residential students in order for it to be non-taxable. Creating partnerships with off-campus commercial businesses is thus a subject to be approached with caution. “If we venture out into the community... we are no longer providing something that is uniquely convenient,” Terry explained.

“Other schools in this country have chosen to take their card off-campus,” Terry continued. “Some of these schools may already be paying income tax on some part of their revenue and they may simply add this into it

see Pizza, page 4

Former PCC President Matt Arbuckle, pictured here with his valentine, Maggy. As part of a continuing series on leadership at age 10.

photo by Timothy Cook

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-7
Election 2002. Meet the candidates for SGA President and VP. Page 3.

Arts & Living 8-10
Kobe Asian Grill reviewed. Page 9.

Perspectives 11-12
Our writers offer Valentine’s Day observations. Page 12.

Sports 13-16
Baseball drops opener to Wake Forest. Page 16.