The Davidsonian Mock UN debate highlights international issues

By Wilson McBEE
Staff Writer

Last Sunday, Davidson students gathered in the Smith 900 room of the Alvarez College Union to witness a diplomatic exercise
sponsored by the Dean Rusk International Studies Program. With Dr. Chris Alexander, director of the Dean Rusk Program, moderating, 10
Davidson students acted as countries such as Saudi Arabia, the United States, the Philippines, and Russia in the context of
a United Nations debate.

Billed as “The U.N. Debates: The War on Terrorism,” the discussion was held in hopes of broadening Davidson students’ world
view as the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist acts approached. The students in attendance were treated to a spirited
conversation which also managed to cover other, more far-reaching topics, including the definition of “terrorism” and the problems of the
current single-superpower global environment.

Dr. Alexander began the debate by explaining its format, in which the complex rules of parliamentary procedure were thrown out
in favor of facilitating a more “free-flowing” discussion. After introducing the subject, the Bush administration’s problems with the Saddam Hussein-led
Iraqi government, Alexander passed the diplomatic baton to Saudi Arabia, represented by Sims Hill ’06, and the discussion began.

Hill started by declaring that her country, like many others in the Arab world, is fearful of a preemptive strike
by the United States. Hill agreed that Hussein’s aggressions could not go unnoticed, but she pleaded for a more detailed
plan for post-Hussein Iraq. Roshan Paul ’02, representing Pakistan, echoed Hill’s comment that only after a better alternative to Saddam
Hussein has been presented could firm military support be garnered. The diplomatic positions of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are indeed
precarious, given that each country has both a high concentration of Muslims and a financial association with the United States.
Hill and Paul did well in representing that delicate balance.

The sparks really began to fly when Ricardo Ampudia ’04, representing Iraq, took the microphone. Ampudia outlined Iraq’s position as
a complacent, peace-loving nation victimized by the oil-thirsty and trigger-happy countries of the West. Ampudia balked at the notion of
“state-sponsored terrorism,” arguing that if Iraq’s actions could be considered as such, then so should Israel’s actions in the West
Bank and the United States’ use of the atomic bomb in 1945. Ampudia also decried the embargo invoked by the
United States, likening it to “economic terrorism” which was “killing innocent civilians.” Employing the ultimate dirty word in U.N. rhetoric,
Ampudia condemned the United States’ actions as “unilateral.”

The stage was set for a U.S. rebuttal. Zeb Kelley ’04 rattled off a string of reasons for a “regime
change” in Iraq: Hussein’s abuse of his own people, threats to use weapons of mass destruction, and possible involvement with
the Al Qaeda terrorist organization. Kelley also explained that action would only be taken in Iraq after receiving full Congressional
approval and support from the international community. Kelley deftly avoided the issue of U.N. approval, though. Whether the United States
would seek U.N. approval for an attack is an issue that remains unresolved.

Students acting as the Philippines, Israel, and the United Kingdom turned out to back the United States’ statements. Palestine, Colombia,
and South Africa sided with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia by taking the position that the United States could not always
be trusted in its hawkish endeavors. Mario Prohasky ’05 represented Russia’s position as a disinterested party in the debate who
is worried more about its own economic stability than about international security. Later, Prohasky proclaimed his amazement at the “worthlessness
of this debate” to a reaction of laughter and applause from the audience. Rachel Anderson ’06, of South Africa, raged
against the United States’ record of plundering third world countries for resources and leaving them in disarray, and she was
loudly applauded by the audience for her performance.

Ampudia, after criticizing the United States’ obstinacy towards the International Criminal Court and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, declared, “the only
way to understand United States foreign policy is to understand what is in the United States’ best interests.” Alexander praised
the “preparation and passion” of the participants, whose obedience to their respective country’s policy made the event “more informative and
fun for them and for the audience.”

Stress, from page 1

...of words, unable to express exactly what they felt. Today, people continue to question their security system and they agonize
over internal conflicts. It is these uncertainties, Stanton said, that...bring people together for strength and support. Students organize Jewish group;
rabbi joins campus By AMANDA PENNOCK Staff Writer

On September 5, SGA met to discuss a variety of issues concerning the student community on campus. Among the most
important of these issues was the formation of a new organization for the community of Jewish students on campus. Students
Jess Heilweil ’05 and Kelly Kopeikin ’05 represented the proposed Davidson College Jewish Student Union at the meeting. As stated
by the organization’s constitution, the Jewish Student Union’s purpose will be “to provide for the needs of Jewish students on
campus as well as to educate the general Davidson College community of Jewish traditions.”

Heilweil and Kopeikin explained that the group began meeting informally during the fall semester of 2001. Since that time, the
students involved have participated in events such as “Break the Fast” after Yom Kippur and weekly Friday trips to the
synagogue. Heilweil said that there are usually at least five students who are regular participants in the group’s activities, but
that the number has fluctuated upwards at times to almost twenty students. The new Davidson group is affiliated with a
Jewish organization at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

The students also voiced enthusiasm about the new rabbi on campus this year. Rabbi Jeremy Barras, who is on the
rabbinic staff of Temple Beth-El in Charlotte, has experience in counseling as well as teaching in the past. He is
a graduate of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, and is now a member of the Chaplain’s Office here on
campus.

The Davidson College Jewish Student Union is one of the very first groups organized as a spiritual gathering for those
of the Hebrew faith. SGA President Gray Patterson ’03 said, “I think this is an organization that was a long
time in coming, and I’m excited about what they’ll do for the entire campus.” Heilweil commented, “It was really nice
to hear that we had such support from the SGA. We weren’t really sure what we were getting into, but
it turned out to be a very special night.”

Want to write for News? emdrew @

Abroad, from page 1 Department of State all learning new things.” Under the new system, before an international student is
issued a Social Security number, an INS check must be done. At other schools, this has caused delays in the
students’ water, cell phones, and electricity being turned on. Davidson has not encountered this problem with its 54 foreign nationals.

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS America’s #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips, earn cash, Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

Bill Seibert has 30 years of martial arts experience Traditional Martial Arts of Huntersville Kung Fu • Karate • Judo
• Swordsmanship Call 948-9550 Visit our website: davidson.edu

ROTC, from page 1 Completion of the ROTC program in college allows students to enter the military as second lieutenants,
instead of starting out at the bottom of the military hierarchy. All students are required, as part of their commitment,
to attend Cadet Troop Leadership Training at Fort Lewis in Washington after their junior year. Several Davidson trainees demonstrated an
even higher degree of dedication by going to optional summer programs such as Air Assault Camp and Airborne School.

At Airborne school in Ft. Benning, Ga., Micah DiGrezio ’05 spent three weeks learning the physical and psychological skills that
are required for military parachuting. The experience culminated with 5 jumps from a C130 airplane at 1250 feet. In his
words, “The first time was without a doubt the scariest moment of my life, as you don’t really jump out
the door. You get sucked out of an airplane at an incredible speed. Then the opening shock comes when your
static line [the parachute deploys automatically] deploys your chute and in a way your body has gone from zero to
a high speed and all the way back to zero in less than three seconds. Depending on winds and your
body weight, we were instructed you could hit the ground at 30 mph. Many of my fellow classmates broke their
legs doing this.”

DiGrezio was not alone in his venture; Davidson students Julie Perry ’04 and Chris Hallett ’05 also survived the rigors
of Fort Benning, and Carolyn Gilmor ’05 spent her time at Air Assault Camp in Hawaii.
