EVERY DAVIDSON STUDENT’S WORST FEAR: FAILURE

Lauren Stutts: Addressing First-Years

I’ve been talking to a lot of first-year students, and the general consensus seems to be that many are really
scared of getting bad grades in classes and not living up to the perfect grades they were able to make
in high school. I remember feeling the exact same way when I was a first-year student; I was terrified of
failure mainly because when I was a prospective, several Davidson students told me horror stories about tests and papers. I
tend to overreact to even the smallest failure. However, when I find myself getting upset and depressed about something, I
try to step back and look at it from a broader perspective, and the failure usually seems inconsequential. If you
try your best and still do bad, then you shouldn’t feel like a failure. Rather, you should only feel like
a failure when you didn’t give it your best effort, and even then, you shouldn’t dwell on it but should
try harder next time. Also, you should not avoid doing certain things or taking certain classes for fear of failure.
As first-year student Athena puts it, “The fear of failure is the fear of living.”

Felicia Browne: Addressing Sophomores

As a member of the sophomore class, I could rattle off my biggest fears in a heartbeat. However, since I
refuse to speak for my classmates, I decided to ask my fellow sophomores to let me in on their biggest
fears. The top 3 were:
* Choosing a major
* Succumbing to the dreaded “Sophomore Slump”
* Dying of boredom

Luckily, I just have ONE solution to all of these fears: take advantage of the extracurricular opportunities at Davidson! As
strange as it sounds, participating in activities around Davidson will help you discover your interests, and help you stay busy,
thereby avoiding all three fears. As for those who are already involved in many extracurricular activities around campus, I would
advise them to try something new. After my freshman year, I assessed all the activities I had participated in throughout
the year; the ones that I liked doing, I stuck with them; the ones I did not, I gave them
up and chose other activities to replace them. I believe there are a plethora of opportunities at Davidson, so there
is no reason to not participate in activities that are of interest. As one Davidson student said, “Take advantage of
Davidson, don’t let Davidson take advantage of you.”

Steve Clugston: Addressing Juniors

So freshman year was a blast, and sophomore year even more so... but now? Work simply flows from those 300-level
classes, not to mention the deadly stats classes that a good portion of us are taking/need to take. The grades
weren’t as friendly freshman year, but that was fine since we were going to make up for it as sophomores...
but, we were still too young to miss out on life then, so it never happened. And now there is
a mélange of desire to have fun yet still feel reassured that we are going to make it somewhere—essentially the
pressure of our future is taking a gentle stab at us—BUT I WANT TO HAVE FUN!! This is when we
panic because we want to go abroad, but doing so can jeopardize the quality of our major... and we need
good grades in our major because if we don’t have good grades... then we aren’t as good... we are failures!!
Seriously? Failure comes in all shapes and sizes, it’s one of those things that embraces all forms of life. A
positive way to look at it though is that the next time we try, we will succeed where we last
failed—it’s a big learning experience that makes us stronger. It simply depends on howYou perceive it, there is absolutely no
reason why The Nancy K. and C. Shaw Smith Artist Series Presents HICSS r ad 1 ies United States and
overseas, rm kuropean music LO college and an students W ith the sole and dance. Colorful.

From Duquest Ye Purpose traditional 7, Cneregy ali COM) ody and Soul: a column by the Health Advisors. Society’s perception
of failure can be your success. It’s only a failure if you make it one.

Jenn Greene: Addressing Seniors

Whenever I’m with my senior friends, the topic of conversation inevitably comes to what each might be doing next year.
And the same thing happens each time: heavy breathing, panting, cold sweat, jitters, and basically wigging out because the future
is still fuzzy (or completely blank in some situations). The biggest fears for seniors: finding a job, finding a job
they actually like, living on their own... basically, metamorphosizing into an adult. Bless their hearts. It is really quite entertaining
to watch one of these spasms. I think everyone is freaking out for no reason. Everything works out in the
end. If it’s not okay, it’s not the end. Right?

While I agree that being prepared and having some sort of plan probably eases the tension and makes for better
conversations with parents (“My son is going to do... uh... something when he graduates...”), there are so many options. It’s
okay not to have it figured out quite yet. Some of the best stories I’ve heard are about how people
went to extremes to survive (read: having an unknown number of injections in a psych experiment to earn some extra
money). You'll always do what it takes, and you'll always get by. Big picture, ladies and gentlemen—focus on the big
picture.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on WALT 1610 AM: This week’s
topic is “Fears and Phobias.”

Speculum captivates viewers

By SALLY STANHOPE
Special Contributor

While not the first artist to capitalize on the human interest in reflection, Jimmy O’Neal is the first to use
mirrorized paint. Because the viewer becomes a participant within each painting, his exhibit Speculum, which is currently on display at
Davidson, directly engages the viewer. Depending on the viewer’s height, movement, and outfit, the composition and color arrangement of the
painting transforms. It is impossible to merely wall-surf through the gallery. Monumental paintings engulf the viewer. Each painting uses the
reflective qualities of the mirrorized paint in different ways. In some, it is slashed across the painting in huge energetic
brushstrokes; in others, the mirrorized paint is used to create bubbles of pattern. Still in others, it is employed to
form bizarre imagery, which catches the viewer off guard. Stars, profiles, crowns, nudes, and animals subtly appear in the paintings.
O’Neal does not limit himself to mirrorized paint; dead butterflies, ink, and bright glasslike colors are used in the paintings
as well. Further playing with the properties of reflection and distortion, certain pieces have been shaped to fit into corners.

Speculum is overwhelming. Visually, it stimulates the viewer to connect with each piece. Yet, Speculum conceptually challenges the viewer, as
well. Seemingly random, numbered philosophical laws, which the artist derived from a book on magic, surround the paintings. In themselves,
they provoke thought; combined with the paintings, they are sure to produce a lively theoretical discussion among the student body.

Speculum is on display in the Van Every Gallery of the Visual Arts Center through Dec. 4. Tickets: $10, $15,
and $20 at the Union Ticket Office (x2135) Monday - Friday 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Cat Cards accepted!

Saturday, November 2, 2002 - 8:00 p.m.
Duke Family Performance Hall
