Students bring Rape Awareness Week to campus
Activities to include First Responder training, noted guest speaker, “Take Back the Night”

By AMANDA PENNOCK ~ Staff Writer

In the twenty minutes it takes to read this issue of the Davidsonian, ten women in America will be raped or sexually assaulted. In addition, two-thirds of rape victims are under the age of 18. One in four women will be sexually assaulted in her lifetime. Many are unaware of these statistics. To spread the word about sexual assault, Amanda Mordavsky ‘02 heads up Rape Awareness Week between Feb. 6 and Feb. 13.

On Wednesday, Feb. 6, First Responder Training will take place. According to Mordavsky, First Responders are a group of students who return pages from students about sexual assault. Any student may page the First Responders to talk about a sexual assault that has just taken place, a sexual assault that took place years ago, or a friend’s experience with sexual assault. The First Responder network is completely confidential; a First Responder cannot even mention a call that took place to others in the group. If any student would like to become a First Responder, he or she should contact Barbara Kauffman ’04.

On Thursday, Feb. 7, the second annual opening ceremony for Rape Awareness Week will take place at 7 p.m. on the Chambers lawn. The committee has purchased artificial carnations to place around campus at the locations where sexual assaults have taken place. Small plaques will be placed next to the flowers, requesting that the flowers not be removed. The majority of the flowers will be placed around the dorms, and Davidson College Presbyterian Church has been designated as the spot where carnations will be placed to indicate off-campus assaults.

On Friday, Feb. 8, there will be a pizza lunch discussion at the Union about rape and sexual assault on college campuses. Mordavsky explains that many on campus believe that Davidson, because it is so small, is not a place where assaults take place. The aim of the lunch is to dispel this notion in a casual and low-key setting.

On Monday, Feb. 11, the committee intended to have self-defense classes; however, no one could be found to teach them at this time. Self-defense classes will be advertised and held later in the semester, possibly in April. Monday’s schedule is still uncertain, though tentative plans have been made for a panel discussion.

On Tuesday, Feb. 12 at 7 p.m., rape victim Katie Koestner will speak in the Chambers Gallery. Koestner was a student at the College of William and Mary when she was assaulted, and she made legal history by being the first woman to take her assailant to court on charges of date rape. She appeared on the cover of TIME Magazine in 1991 and completed a real-life docudrama with HBO entitled “No Visible Bruises: The Katie Koestner Story” in 1993. The event is being co-sponsored by various groups on campus including Campus Police, RLO, Student Health, the Student Resource Center, the Gay/Straight Alliance, and 9 out of 12 Patterson Court Houses.

Finally, the week will culminate with the annual “Take Back the Night.” Taking place in the Chambers Gallery at 9 p.m., men and women are invited to speak about their personal experiences with sexual assault and rape. Mordavsky explained that the event — dubbed a “night of empowerment” — usually begins with a couple of programmed presenters, followed by an “open mic” opportunity for anyone who wishes to share his or her story. Mordavsky estimated that approximately 400 people attended last year’s “Take Back the Night” and is hopingFor an even larger turnout this year, red yarn will be hanging from each chair at the event, and audience members will be asked to tie it around each other’s wrists and leave it there until it falls off as a reminder of the night. Similarly, after the speakers have finished, the group will move out to the patio and tie red yarn to a ficus tree to remember each victim of sexual assault.

Bush, from page 1

Officials seated on the stage, and backed by a billboard advertising the Freedom Corps volunteer organization, the President began his 40-minute speech by echoing the previous night’s State of the Union address. “Even though we’re at war, even though we’re in a recession, the state of our Union has never been stronger,” he said. He exuberantly continued, “It is such an honor to be president of such a fabulous country.”

Lee felt the day’s speech was more effective than the State of the Union. “He was talking in a less formal manner to thousands of supporters,” said Lee. “It was easier for him to get his point across.”

President Bush related that former Senator and presidential candidate Bob Dole recently dined with the first couple, then expressed his disappointment that Elizabeth Dole was unable to join them. Barely veiling his endorsement of Mrs. Dole’s Senate candidacy, President Bush said, “My hope, of course, is that we’ll be able to dine frequently.”

After acknowledging the political heavyweights present, Mr. Bush turned his attention to the three themes of his two-day tour. Beginning with the war on terrorism, he praised the United States’ success in forming “a great coalition of nations, with this message: Either you’re with us, or you’re against us. Either you’re on the side of freedom and justice, or you aren’t. And the good news is, most people are beginning to see the wisdom of being on the side of freedom and justice.”

Straying from his script, the President declared, “I truly view this as a battle of good and evil. There really isn’t much middle ground—like, none.”

During a brief but assertive discussion of the future of the economy, the audience answered Mr. Bush with fervent applause for his plainspoken response to opponents, “You don’t raise taxes in a recession. For those who want to do away with tax relief, you don’t know what you’re talking about.”

The biggest topic of the day, though, was volunteerism. Acknowledging, “It sounds like I’m making a pitch and I am,” the President gave the website and phone number of the USA Freedom Corps. Reminiscent of his father’s “Thousand Points of Light,” Mr. Bush called for “a million acts of kindness,” or 4,000 hours of community service per person. “Stand up to evil with acts of goodness and kindness,” he said. “Do something kind for a neighbor. Love somebody. Mentor a child. We will show the world that universal values must be respected. History has called us to action, and action we will take.”

Receive a 5% Discount with a Valid Davidson College ID
Discount applies to Students, Faculty, and Staff of Davidson College

PHONE - (704) 892-6590
FAX - (704) 892-6596
Hours: 7:30-5:30 M-F, 8:00-12:00 Sat.
Exit 30 Davidson NC 115, Cornelius
Exit 28

FULL LINE OF GENERAL REPAIR WORK
Complex Repair on Foreign & American Autos
Quality Repair by People Who Care!!!