Davidson COLLEGE
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2002
Volume 93, Number 15

College avoids national trends in grade inflation
Recent drop in average GPA worries students but not administrators
By Colin EAGAN
News Editor

When Harvard University released a report this fall addressing grade point averages, its administration confirmed a fear currently common to many institutions of higher education—grade inflation is a problem. According to that report, half of all Harvard undergraduate grades are As or A minuses. More than 90 percent of all students graduate with honors. Concerned faculty feared the “A” had lost its meaning.

Here at Davidson, some students are finding it difficult to relate. The average GPA for the fall 2001 was a 2.83. This figure has dropped substantially from the spring of 2000, when it was a 3.218. It is also lower than the fall 1998 average of 3.087. If grade inflation was a problem on campus, many students feel that the administration has it well in check.

“There is no question that good grades are harder to earn at Davidson than at other schools,” commented SGA President Joey Harris ’02. “I have friends at Duke, Harvard, USC, UGA, Furman, and Yale among other places and it seems like none of them work as hard to make good grades as we do.”

“The faculty here have a problem with giving hard-working students good grades,” said Michael Megison ’04. “It’s unfair to mistreat deserving students just for the sake of averages.”

Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross brought the threat of grade inflation to the attention of the faculty.

see Grades, page 2

Average Senior Class Grade Point Averages
1998 3.087
1999 3.1
2000 3.218
2001 3.13
2002 3.13

Grade Deflation?
The class of 2002’s average GPA of 3.13 represents a slight downward trend, though hovering with grades from past years just above 3.0. GPAs for the entire student body tend to be slightly lower; this fall 2.83. Averages are taken from the fall of seniors’ graduating years.

President Bush addresses a crowd of supporters at the LJVM Coliseum in Winston-Salem this past Wednesday.

College Republicans travel to see Bush speak
President highlights new volunteer programs
By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

WINSTON-SALEM—Basking in 78 degrees of southern sunshine and the afterglow of a widely-praised State of the Union address, President Bush visited North Carolina last Wednesday to reiterate his objectives in the war on terrorism, outline his plan for reviving the economy, and promote the newly established USA Freedom Corps.

Almost 8,000 people stood in line—some for six hours—to get in Winston-Salem’s Lawrence Joel Veteran’s Memorial Coliseum. A parade-like atmosphere pervaded the tobacco-founded town as families lined the street to get a glimpse of the Presidential motorcade. “Winston-Salem Welcomes President Bush” signs hung from parkway overpasses.

Travis Lee ’04, one of several College Republicans who attended the event, managed to get in. “Sure, it was upsetting to wait three hours,” he said, “but it was worth it to see the President of the United States.

“It was exciting because you don’t get to see a lot of political figures of great stature around here—there’s Jesse Helms and Elizabeth Dole, but it was definitely worth the drive and wait to see the President.”

Flanked by some 75 localLaw enforcement see Bush, page 4

Speaker will address issue of forgiveness for 9/11
Dean of Duke Divinity School will speak on Christian response to terror.

By Timothy Cook
Managing Editor

It has been a trying year for those who lost loved ones in September’s terrorist attacks and for citizens who are angry at those responsible for disrupting our way of life. L. Gregory Jones, Dean of the Duke University Divinity School, will present his ideas about a proper Christian response to those events on Monday, Feb. 11, at Davidson College.

Speaking as the college’s annual Staley Lecturer, Jones will address the question, “Can (or Should) September 11th be Forgiven? Christian Reflections on the Gift and Challenge of Reconciliation,” beginning at 7:30 p.m. in the Smith 900 Room of the College Union. The public is invited and there is no admission charge.

Jones’s work centers on the nature of forgiveness, and how Christians can appropriate the Christian story to live lives of transformative service. He is known for a teaching style that fosters students’ imaginations to explore the implications of theology for everyday life, for research that promotes interdisciplinary conversation among scholars, and for commitment to ecumenical dialogue.

Jones will address the Gospel of Matthew, chapter five, in which Jesus instructs his followers to turn the other cheek instead of seeking retribution. Jones commented, “Many people feel that forgiveness is a sign of weakness. Is turning the other cheek a sign of passivity? I think that is a mistake. It is, instead, a sign of strength on the part of the person.”

He said that the primary theological sources for his talk will come from the Psalms, the writings of Augustine and Thomas Aquinas, and from contemporary figures like Archbishop Desmond Tutu. He will also draw from a variety of modern secular works by authors like Toni Morrison.

Jones is the co-editor of Modern Theology, a scholarly journal published by Blackwell Publishers in Oxford, England. He has written three books, co-edited four others, and authored more than 80 articles in professional and popular journals. His reviews, opinion-editorials, and other articles have appeared in The Christian Century, Christianity Today, and various newspapers.

Jones and his wife, the Rev. Susan Pendleton Jones, wrote “Adult Bible Studies” for the United Methodist Publishing House. Prior to his arrival at Duke five years ago, Jones was chair of the theology department at Loyola College in Maryland. He is an ordained elder in the Western North Carolina Conference of the United Methodist Church.

The Staley Lecture series was established at Davidson College in 1970 through the generosity of Thomas F. Staley, a 1924 graduate of the college, who became a successful investment banker and helped found the brokerage firm of Dean Witter-Reynolds. As a Christian and a philanthropist, Thomas Staley felt that he should use his resources to, in the words of the Statement of Purpose of the foundation that bears his name, “further the evangelical witness of the Christian Church, and with a particular concern for college students.” To this end, he endowed this lecture series at Davidson College. Previous Staley lecturers include Frederick Buechner, Tony Campolo, and James Forbes.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
GTS News 1-4
Rape Awareness Week. Page 4.
Arts & Living 5-6
Amelie reviewed. Page 5.
Perspectives 7-8
Musings on the Super Bowl. Page 8.
Sports 9-12
Baseball looks forward to opening a new season. Page 12.