DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOLUME 94, NUMBER 5

Van returns: with tighter guidelines
By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

The Vamonos Van will return to the road on Thursday with new rules and no beer. Administrators approved a new, stricter set of guidelines proposed by the SGA, nearly two weeks after Davidson Town Police ticketed six students for carrying beer onto the van.

“I hate to call them ‘new’ policies, because it’s not new that you can’t have beer on a moving car,” said SGA President Gray Patterson. “There were a lot of assumptions made by students that we never double-checked, and that’s where we got burned. We’ve now resolved those assumptions.”

The rules—which will be permanently posted inside the van—explicitly ban alcohol on board. Violators will face criminal and Code of Responsibility charges. Van drivers, who will now be trained in advance by Campus Police officers, are instructed to return the van to campus immediately should problems arise.

“The driver’s primary responsibility should be driving, not worrying about whether someone is sneaking beer on the Vamonos Van,” Patterson said.

Administrators shut down the van for 11 days after local police discovered a cooler of beer on board following a late-night traffic stop on the night of Saturday, Sept. 21. Managers at RJ Gator’s in Cornelius called 911 to alert authorities that at least one Davidson student boarded the van with beer after dining at the restaurant. Police pulled the van over on Griffith Street roughly 45 minutes later, after it had returned to campus.

From THE Heart: Paul Thorn-Keziah ’05 (left) and David Coffey ’04 donate blood in Tuesday’s ROTC drive. Coffey wore his finest shoes for the event.

Fishy Jukebox stunt leaves 30

...led to the small envelopes sitting at their doors, said one of my friends. “I even said one didn’t expect an hi.” Returning to her room that morning, Morgan Zeosher Commando complaints involved that many. 30 envelopes contained 30 envelopes. Officer Richardson at 3:30 that afternoon. During the game, “The girl who was way faster” than any O8MS, said Bridget ’06, a 3rd Belk Commando (Last names of participants withheld upon request). Jesse Sharp-Williams ’06 of the Goldfish said, “We scored like ria.” '06 picked up the two girls in her during the gathering. “EAT Morale,” according to Tiffany. Hearing any trash-talking, though other teammates admit there was some. After the game, a small number of 3rd Belk girls decided to engage in a prank to raise their morale. “My primary motive was to do something, to start a prank war. We wanted our team to be proud of something,” Tiffany said. After initially rejecting toilet-papering their...

see Goldfish, page 2

First Responders regroup and recruit
By Ros HEMPRICK
Staff Writer

The problem is everywhere in our society, yet it manages to escape the public forum on a regular basis. Ironically, this lack of attention and understanding is precisely what allows it to thrive to epidemic proportions. And now, a small community of Davidson students aims to combat the stigma and unspoken fear surrounding the issue simply by being there for their fellow students.

The matter at hand is sexual assault, and the students are the First Responders. Our campus, despite its small size and close community, is included in the number of places where rape and sexual assault are ongoing problems. Compounded with the horrible nature of these crimes is the tightly knit nature of the Davidson community and the resulting...tendency towards the spread of rumors. “You can easily run into conflicts,” says Barbara Kauffman ’04, head of the First Responder program. “Campus is tiny, and people take sides, and people judge.” The program began several years ago as a means for students to be able to talk about such deeply personal issues with fellow students in a confidential environment. A key component of the program is a pager carried by student volunteers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Any student seeking help or support with a problem involving rape, sexual assault, or incest may dial the pager and expect an open listener and a friendly source of help. “Whether it happened a year ago, a month ago, last night, First Responders do everything from listening and being a friend to actually accompanying [the victim] to a hospital,” summarizes Kauffman. “We know all the options. We are basically there to offer options.” The second part of the program’s mission is to raise awareness on campus about the issues surrounding sexual assault. Because of the social stigma associated with these situations, “No one on campus is aware of the frequency of sexual assault.” - Health Advisor Georgia Ringle. Many individuals are unwilling to speak about their experiences. Georgia Ringle, a Davidson Health Educator and advisor to the First Responders, is concerned about the lack of communication on sexual abuse. “Unless someone has had an experience or knows someone who has, it’s not necessarily going to stick with them,” she says. “No one on campus is aware of the frequency.” Another lack of awareness that has recently caused problems for the First Responders has been the absence of publicity for the program itself. Recently, program leaders learned that a great deal of students, primarily upperclassmen, are completely unaware of the program and its services.

Council debates Code violation in open trial
By AMEE PATEL
Staff Writer

Davidson’s first open Honor Council hearing in four years packed students into Perkins Auditorium last Wednesday night. Despite racket from the never-ending Chambers construction, issues stemming from the Code of Responsibility were heard loud and clear. Stratton Lawrence ’03 denied responsibility for underage drinking during a party held at his off-campus house before the school year began. Later that night, after leaving this party, freshman Jackson Herlong was taken to the hospital with alcohol poisoning. As a result of Herlong’s hospitalization, Lawrence, along with his four roommates, was charged with violating Sections 3 and 13 of the Code of Responsibility. Of the five, Lawrence was the only one to hold an open hearing. Section 3 states, “Social conduct is to be based upon concern for others and must conform to high standards of courtesy and propriety. For example, students have the obligation to avoid any action which might impair the well-being or reputation of guests.” Section 13 explains, “acts which violate the Code of Responsibility and which may occur off campus may, in the discretion of the Dean of Students and Student Solicitors, if available, be grounds for disciplinary action by the College under the procedures outlined in the Code of Disciplinary Procedures.” The construction on Chambers continued through the night and could be heard over all of

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-4
KA sponsors Blalock lecture, page 2
Arts & Living 5-6
Faculty art show (above), page 6
Perspectives 7-8
Ashcroft understands terrorism, page 8
Sports 9-12
Men’s soccer upends No. 2 Gamecocks, page 12