Suspicion runs deep on U.S. foreign policy
By Mario Prohasky
Guest Contributor

When President Bush rose to speak in front of the U.N. General Assembly last Thursday, he was greeted with skepticism.
In fact, he was greeted with something more than that—suspicion. Statesmen from all over the world have been skeptical in
recent months about any possible U.S. action against Iraq. The reasons for their reluctance are quite clear. There is a
huge risk of further aggravating the Arab-Israeli conflict and violating the principles of international law. There is also an apparent
lack of clear evidence justifying the necessity of an attack.

The roots of suspicion, however, seem much deeper to me. Many trusted allies of the United States have found it
difficult to support the actions of a country whose foreign policy in recent times has been at best inconsistent. The
war in Afghanistan was waged with a promise that democracy would be brought to a region that desperately needed it.
Yet the smart bombs were not followed by swift and necessary nation-building measures, and the Karzai government has already been
very much weakened and discredited.

While trying to maintain the broad coalition against terror, the U.S. continues to back an Israeli government that is unwilling
to work for peace. At the same time, the U.S. has posed demands on the current Palestinian leadership that are
impossible to meet. One could argue that Colin Powell, one of the more moderate voices in the administration, has made
some progress. Sadly, on other issues the hardliners clearly have the upper hand.

I find it very disturbing that while pleading to the international community for support in the war against terror, the
U.S. has refused to comply with the International Court of Justice. This is a continuation of an alarming trend in
American policy: disregarding international legal provisions and organizations, and subjecting them to the interests of the United States. Here we
are reminded of the millions of dollars that the U.S. is obliged to pay to the U.N. as a member
state and of the refusal of the current administration to support the Kyoto treaty.

I believe that the President’s speech last week was a step forward. It was a step forward in his quest
to topple Saddam Hussein because of the desire to obtain full international support for any military action. It was also
a step forward in restoring the confidence of many U.S. allies. However, suspicion will be completely uprooted only when America
gets rid of the inconsistencies in its own foreign policy.

Lessons of history prove Saddam must be stopped
By Richard Guyer
Staff Writer

The case President Bush made before the United Nations on Thursday indicted Saddam Hussein on three main counts: he poses
a threat to global stability which will only grow if he acquires nuclear weapons (which he may soon do if
no action is taken); he cruelly suppresses his own people; and he has broken every agreement he made at the
end of the 1991 Gulf War. The strength of the first two reasons may be debatable, but they are quite
compelling. Indeed, the allegation of genocide was justification enough to remove Slobodan Milosevic from power in 1999, even though he
posed no threat to our national security (and some of our NATO allies were not terribly enthusiastic about that campaign,
either). The threat of regional destabilization was all the reason we needed to overthrow hostile regimes in Grenada and Panama.

But of all the reasons put forth by President Bush, I believe that the third may be the most compelling.
Throughout history, wars have been fought for many reasons, and some have been fought for no good reason at all.
However, wars are almost universally fought in order to impose the victor’s will—whatever it may be—upon the vanquished. The great
trophy of military victory is the ability to dictate and impose the terms of surrender. When an overpowered nation surrenders
and agrees to a treaty, it does so with the understanding that hostilities will be resumed with full vigor if
the pact is not adhered to.

Since 1991, Hussein has broken every one of the promises he made to the international community. His laundry list of
violated trusts was detailed in a 21-page report the White House released last Wednesday, entitled “A Decade of Deception and
Defiance.” It is the duty of the United States to ensure that the commitments of its 1991 treaty with Iraq
are upheld.are carried out. It is important for us to send a message to the world that if a nation
makes an agreement with us, it is in that nation’s best interests to stick by it, since doing otherwise will
result in dire consequences. History supports this stance. Throughout the 1930s, Hitler systematically violated every commitment Germany made in the
1918 Treaty of Versailles. When the time came to confront him, Neville Chamberlain decided that the price of taking a
stand was too high. As a result, Hitler left Munich with a green light to begin conquering Europe and massacring
Jews, and millions of people died in the most terrible war ever fought. I believe that President Bush understands the
consequences of letting Hussein go unpunished in his defiance. As a nation, we need to realize that inaction would be
a dangerous course to plot. To use the words of Trent Lott, we must “back this president.” Whether the U.N.
stands with us or not, this is a time for action.

Want to advertise your big party? Follow these rules

Metaphorically speaking (unfortunately), the post-coital bliss I should have felt following First Weekend Down was ruined. Apparently, some fraternities on
campus posted some offensive flyers advertising their parties this weekend. Several complaints were registered against them. The problem, dare I
say, has become an epidemic. To help Patterson Court avoid future conflicts, I got to thinking about how to make
party flyers a little less abrasive.

“In theory,” I said to myself, “there should be a flyer design that is acceptable to everyone on campus.” Being
the theoretical type, I began working on a design. First and foremost, any type of sexual subtext is gone. References
to “going down” for whatever time are probably the worst offenders, but names of sex acts are prohibited as well.
No mention of “dogs in the tub” or “fly on the wall” can be used. Included in this group of
no-nos is anything that can be taken the wrong way, even if the intention is pure. To be honest, I’ve
never heard of the “fly on the wall,” but now that I think about it, I’m strangely intrigued. Even double
entendre quotes from such classic comedies as Dumb and Dumber cannot be used to promote a social gathering. “Hey, nice
pair of hooters,” just isn’t going to cut it.

Speaking of Dumb and Dumber, did anyone else get a little choked up at the end? Two complete losers stumble
onto the best job ever—outside of vice president—and they screw it up. Philosophically speaking, I think I lost a little
innocence the day I saw the ending. It’s a tough one to take when you’re 14.

Profanity is out too. Implying dirty words such as, “This party is the St&%!” isn’t any better. Profanity offends some
people. Much the same way as the word poop offends me. Call it crap or s*&%. Poop is baby talk.

Pictures of any type are just a bad idea too. They say a picture is worth 1,000 words. Chances are
one of those thousand is going to offend somebody. Advertising days and times for the event are probably not going
to work either. Personally, I find the day Monday so offensive I often boycott the entire day and just sleep.
I don’t know why, but I’m sure somebody out there feels the same way about other days. Even popular days
like Friday. Times can also be offensive. I hate the hours from 8-10 a.m. You’d think I wouldn’t care since
I’m rarely awake during them. If I am up, I’m usually angry at the entire world and more unpleasant to
be around than normal.

No patriotic themes either. Since we couldn’t hand out small flags on 9/11, I think putting anything remotely American on
your banner is just a recipe for complaint. It’s also best to leave off the name of your organization too.
I’m sure some fraternities or eating-houses just naturally offend people. I’m actually offended by every flyer CoHo puts up. The
word Co-Ed implies sex, and I’ve already covered the use of sexual language on party flyers. The word “party” is,
I’m sure, offensive to some people, so we’ll cut that out too.

This pretty much leaves us slapping blank pieces of paper all over Chambers Building to advertise for a party. I
know my plan will confuse a lot of people, but then, isn’t campus-wide confusion better than a campus-wide hissy fit?
I think so.
