DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOLUME 94, NUMBER 6

BSC forum: Students find diversity lacking
By Ros Hedrick
Staff Writer

What is it like to be a minority on Davidson’s campus? Many students have reflected on the meaning of this
existence momentarily, but very few on this campus have actually lived it. Recently, the life of the Davidson minority student
has been a topic of discussion among students across campus. On Sunday evening, about 40 students and faculty met at
the Black Student Coalition house on Patterson Court to talk about the different experiences and opinions that they have encountered
over the years. The group focused on ways of defining the role of minorities at the school and various means
of expanding minority presence in the Davidson community. Facilitated by Allen Lee ’01, the meeting featured an open dialogue between
individuals from several different cultural and social backgrounds. Lee started the meeting by sharing some of his own experiences and
then opening the room to discussion of past and current “minority issues” surrounding life at Davidson.

Among the topics discussed by the group was a general concern that the minorities attending Davidson were admitted simply to
keep up appearances of equality. Said one student, “I feel like most of us are here for the viewbooks or
the quotas.” Another participant added that minorities attracted to Davidson by such a promise of diversity might be surprised to
notice the predominantly white student body upon arriving at school. “When they get on campus, they’re asking, ‘Where’s the picture
from page 24?’” When Lee polled the individuals in the

see BSC, page 2

KING AND Queen: A.C. 1 nthe SR. Christopherson (right) and Susanne Francis. Below: enthusiastic fans cheer on the Wildcats during
the game.

Bowles, Dole square off in U.S. Senate race
By Brian Kennedy
Staff Writer

The race for the open North Carolina U.S. Senate seat is shaping into one of the most interesting and important
races in the midterm elections. The race has a true national feel; with only a handful of contested seats, control
of the Senate could ride on only one seat. Republican Elizabeth Dole’s campaign is built on her name recognition and
experience. She worked in the Reagan and George Bush, Sr. cabinets as Secretary of Labor and Secretary of Transportation. She
also served as president of the Red Cross, an organization bigger than most Fortune 500 companies. Democrats have argued throughout
the campaign that Dole, a native of Salisbury, N.C., is “not a North Carolinian because she only re-registered to vote
in North Carolina in October. “While Dole clearly has the advantage of name recognition, she has been living in Washington
D.C. for a long time,” said McLean Quinn, President of the Davidson College Young Democrats. Dole was previously registered in
Kansas, where she maintained a residence with her husband, former senator and presidential candidate Bob Dole.

Erskine Bowles emerged late in the primaries to win the nomination of the Democratic Party. Bowles, a Charlotte businessman, earned
his national experience in the Clinton administration. As chief of staff, Bowles experienced the ups and downs of the Clinton
years. Bowles was considered instrumental in balancing the budget. However, he also was called to speak in a federal courthouse
to discuss the Monica Lewinsky scandal. Bowles' association with Clinton can be seen as both a positive and a negative.
Bowles is trying to distance himself from the former president while focusing on his accomplishments in the Clinton administration. The
Republicans havebeen especially critical of Bowles’s association with Clinton. “He’s been talking a lot about his accomplishments under [Clinton’s] administration,
but has hardly mentioned [his] name,” wrote North Carolina Republican Party Chairman Bill Cobey. Current issues will also play a
role in this election. Recently, Dole has been focusing on national defense. She supports higher wages and more benefits for
military personnel. Dole supports lowering taxes to help create jobs and in turn help the struggling economy. Not surprisingly, Bowles
brings a different perspective towards defining issues. “Bowles, who supports raising the minimum wage and respecting a woman’s right to
choose, has been campaigning on a health care plan that would include drug care for all seniors,” said Quinn. “Bowles
has also promised federal spending on education, an issue important to every election.” The campaign has turned personal as each
candidate runs attack ads. Both Dole and Bowles ran commercials on social security. Bowles claimed that Dole’s plan to put
Social Security money in the stock market would take trillions away from Social Security. Dole’s response ad claimed, “The real
story is that Erskine Bowles is the only candidate in this race who has actually supported reducing Social Security benefits.”
Both campaigns are negotiating a series of debates before the election that will hopefully end this flood of negative campaigning.
Whatever the outcome, the 2002 elections will be interesting to watch. “The country has been changed by Sept. 11 and
everyone is curious to see how this will affect this November’s elections,” said Quinn.

Radiation threat hits close to home
By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

Davidson students are among the 165,000 N.C. residents who will soon be offered two tiny, red pills that could save
their lives in the event of a nuclear disaster. Later this month, Mecklenburg County will distribute free potassium iodide pills
to residents living within 10 miles of the area’s two nuclear facilities. The Davidson campus is roughly four miles from
the McGuire Nuclear Power Plant on Lake Norman. Students and local residents can pick up the pills on Oct. 19
and 22 at North Mecklenburg High School in Huntersville, said Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey. The school’s Emergency Planning
Committee has not yet decided whether to officially recommend the pills, but McKelvey said it’s probably a good idea. “It
sounds like a reasonable measure,” said McKelvey. “We all hope that we’ll never get into a scenario that we’ll use
it, but it would be a good thing to have on hand if you do need it.” The biggest threat
is probably not a terrorist attack, but some other malfunction that could result in a radiation leakage at McGuire, he
said. “There could be situations where there might be a radioactive release from the plant. If that happens, certainly we
would need to take some steps, depending on the amount.” In the event of a release, sirens would go off
signaling residents to take the potassium iodide pills. Residents could potentially be instructed to follow an evacuation route to Troutman,
located 10 minutes north on Interstate 77 just outside McGuire’s 10-mile radius, where decontamination and first aid facilities would be
available.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
Alums and students take the stands at the Morehead St. game on Saturday, see Sports page 12

News 1-4
Code of Responsibility trials. Page 2.

Arts & Living
Cast prepares Anne Frank. Page 5.

Perspectives 5-6
Alum irate about goldfish prank. Page 7.

Sports 9-12
Football falls to Morehead St. Page 12.
