Connor Joins Faculty, Staff in Varsity Baseball Bond

Discussion of Women’s Issues, Service Work at Local Farm

By SHANNON BISHOP
Special Contributor

Last month, Connor House welcomed ten female staff and faculty members to its weekly meeting to moderate informal discussions of issues facing women at Davidson. The evening enabled Connor members to praise Davidson successes, find comfort in shared experiences, and gain an appreciation for the female role models we have on campus.

“I think this event is a great idea and hope it can continue,” commented history professor Sally McMillen. Group discussions ranged from Connor women venting about self-selection to the moderators sharing their own college experiences.

This low-key event enabled Connor members, faculty, and staff to interact casually outside the academic environment. “The part that I enjoyed the most was hearing the feedback from Rosie Molinary, our leader. She had such a great perspective on Davidson due to the fact that she was a student herself, as well as a hall counselor and now a faculty member. It was comforting to know that these issues were just as pertinent to her as they were to us girls. I definitely think we should do more of these,” commented Ashley Finn ’05.

The evening allowed Connor women to take advantage of the female resources we have on campus and get to know one another a little better. Elizabeth Matthews ’04 noted, “I was so impressed with the openness of our group, and their willingness to share the imperfections of themselves while still realizing that we are all gifted in some way and really appreciative of our Davidson experience.”

Connor House would like to thank all the faculty and staff members who facilitated this experience. It is crucial for Patterson Court and Connor to continue this type of conversation, camaraderie, and development.

---

GRILLED CHEESE - VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE, AND LIMEADE

Bet you didn't think of us for this kind of fare!

VEGETABLE SOUP

Eat-in or Take-out

896-7743

---

ACT NOW! Guarantee the best Spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardi Gras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps Needed, EARN $$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1-888-THINK-SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626) www.springbreakdiscounts.com ***

By EMILY DREW
News Editor

Though the varsity baseball season does not start until next semester, on Feb. 15, the team is already developing individual workouts, team conditioning, and, most importantly, team unity.

On Saturday, Nov. 2, 15 baseball players participated in community service at Joshua’s Farm, thanks to planning efforts by varsity pitcher Stephen Choate ’03, who felt that community service would help strengthen the team’s already-close bonds outside training and practice.

“I think being an athlete comes with a responsibility to give back to the community and to lead our fellow students in constructive activities off the playing fields,” said Choate, who chose the Joshua’s Farm project after discussing options with Mary Kathryn Ross in the Community Service Office. She pointed Choate to a number of local service organizations that could use and accommodate an entire team of service volunteers.

“It’s important for everyone to remember that athletes on this campus don’t just play sports,” said pitcher Erskine Wells ’03. “They take part in helping the greater community, too.”

Joshua’s Farm in Charlotte is designed to be a destination with therapeutic, educational, and fun activities for children and adults living with disabilities. Programs include therapeutic horseback riding and animal interaction therapy. The Farm hopes to extend its offerings to horticulture therapy soon, as well.

Through these activities, participants can improve motor skills, balance, posture, muscle strength, confidence, self-esteem, and independence in a safe, supportive environment designed specifically for the disabled.

Along with their hours of service, the baseball team also donated a Rubbermaid Long Handle tool organizer, a shovel, and a pitchfork.

One of the highlights of the day, said Choate, was watching senior catcher Chris Emond, a New Jersey native, make friends with a pot-bellied pig.

Many of the players told Choate that they really didn’t know what to expect going in, but they enjoyed the experience and thought that it was a good thing for the team to be involved in during the off-season.

“It was good for the team to take time away from Davidson, where all people worry about is grades and due dates, and contribute something positive to other people’s lives,” said Wells. “It’s a great cause that provides a tremendous service to others. It was also good for us to participate as a team.”

Joshua’s Farm was established in 1996, in memory of a boy named Joshua who suffered from Hurler’s Syndrome, a degenerative disease that left him in a wheelchair for the last two years of his life. Joshua never allowed his disabilities to interfere with his love of the outdoors, and in an effort to extend Joshua’s legacy of courage and joy, the Farm was established.

Joshua’s Farm exists exclusively on donations and is managed by volunteers.

For more information on Joshua’s Farm, visit www.joshuasfarm.org.

---

SUBMISSIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR THE STUDENT PHOTOGRAPHY SHOW

Drop off your work - color, digital, B&W, conventional - at Sentelle 110 by Nov. 1. Entries will be displayed in the VAC Nov. 21 - Dec. 4.

For more info, email ERROSINTOSKI, SASTANHOPE, or CHPIKE.