The Davidsonian - Split set: Women’s tennis dominates play, men

By AMANDA Morbavsky
Staff Writer

Heading into spring break, the women’s tennis team was 7-0 with three big games ahead of them. Coming out of spring break, the Wildcats are now 10-1, having barely missed the undefeated mark. However, the team is as strong as ever and hungry to win a conference tournament. Head coach Caroline Price explains, “We were within a whisker of being 10-0; the girls showed an outstanding effort against Richmond. Bottom line, we’ve got a great mix between upperclassmen and freshmen this year.” The combination of seasoned players and talented freshmen has led to much of Davidson’s success.

At their February 27 game against East Carolina University, the Wildcats demonstrated their strength as a team, winning the competition 5-2. Remaining at the number one singles spot, freshman Kelly Fillnow pulled out a big win, 7-5, 7-5 while fellow freshman Meggie Patterson smashed her ECU opponent, 6-1, 6-1. At the number three spot, freshman Meghan Fillnow suffered a 5-7, 7-5, 3-6 loss. However, senior captain Kelley Cantrell pulled out a win, 6-2, 6-4. Fellow captain, junior Yasamina Hilu, did not have the same luck, losing, 4-6, 6-2, 1-10. Katherine Hatch clinched the match with a 1-6, 7-6, 10-8 win. In doubles, the Wildcats bounced back from their last game to win the doubles point. Freshmen twins Fillnow and Fillnow won, 8-5, while Patterson and Hatch handed ECU a loss, 8-2. Cantrell and Hilu finished the doubles match with an 8-6 win.

Beginning their spring break road trip, the Wildcats faced the Spiders of Richmond, the first team to hand the ’Cats a loss this season. The two teams faced off on March 4, ending the afternoon with a 4-3 win for Richmond. Starting with the doubles competition, Fillnow and Fillnow downed Jeanette Cluskey and Patty Delvin, 8-3. RU bounced back with a Vanessa Bagnato and Lindsay Cox win over Patterson and Hatch, 8-2. Fortunately, captains Cantrell and Hilu pulled out the win over Courtney Kelin and Casey Cohen, 8-6, to give the Wildcats the doubles point. In singles, the Wildcats did not have as much luck. Cluskey handed Kelly Fillnow a loss, 5-7, 7-5, 7-6, while Bagnato did the same to Patterson, 6-1, 4-6, 6-4. RU pulled ahead 3-1 with a Cox win over Meghan Fillnow, 6-4, 6-3. Cantrell kept the ’Cats in the competition with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over Cohen, but it proved not enough when RU’s Klein handed Hilu a loss, 6-0, 6-3. Hatch brought in the final point for Davidson with a 5-7, 6-4, 6-3 win over Delvin, but it wasn’t enough to earn a team victory.

Bouncing back from their first loss of the season, the Wildcats took back to the courts on March 5 to shut out Duquesne, 7-0. Kelly Fillnow brought home an easy 6-4, 6-0 victory while Patterson held out for a 6-0, 7-6 win. Meghan Fillnow trounced her opponent, 6-1, 6-4, and Cantrell virtually shut out Katie Riedingir, 6-1, 6-0. Hilu gave the ’Cats their fifth point of the day, 6-2, 6-4, while Hatch finished the singles sweep, 6-1, 6-1. In the doubles line-up, Fillnow and Fillnow easily won, 8-2, while Patterson and Hatch held on for a close win, 7-7, 7-2. Finally, Cantrell and Hilu won the last match, 8-6.

Returning from break, the Wildcats faced the Camels of Campbell University. In a match as close as Richmond, the Wildcats managed with a different outcome. Beginning with the doubles match, the Wildcats could not win the point. Fillnow and Fillnow fell, 9-7, while Patterson and Hatch suffered an 8-5 loss. Cantrell and Hilu managed a close 9-8 win, but the point had already gone to Campbell. Entering singles competition, Kelly Fillnow easily won, 7-5, 6-2, while Patterson pulled out a 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 victory. Campbell came back to even the score at 2-2, with a 6-3, 6-4 win over Meghan Fillnow. Cantrell gave the Wildcats a slight lead with a 6-2, 6-2 win but the Camels tied it back up as Hilu lost, 6-0, 6-2. Davidson prevailed with a key win from Hatch, 6-1, 6-0. Hilu commented on the win, explaining, “Beating Campbell was definitely one of the best wins of the season, not only because they’re a really good team, but also because it gave us a lot of confidence to know that we are at that level.” Assistant coach Jamey Sellars sums up her team best, “They find a way to win.”

Wrestlers end on high note

By AMANDA Morbavsky
Staff Writer

After struggling through a loss of team members and continual injuries, the Wildcat wrestlers ended their season with several big wins in the conference championship. Although the team finished sixth overall at the six-team competition, individuals placed in the third and fourth spots. Senior captain Jeff Bender remarks, “Out of the three that wrestled at conference, three placed. We had an 8-4 team record. After the first round, we were, laughably, in second place.”

Wrestling at the 149-pound division, junior Grant Doornbos entered the tournament with a sixth place seed, challenging number three seed Patrick Carr from the University of Tennessee-Chattanooga. In a decisive manner, Doornbos pinned Carr at the 1:33 mark in the first period to advance him to the semifinals, where he faced Wayne Watts of the Citadel. Despite a strong effort, Watts pinned Doornbos at the 1:20 mark and advanced to the finals, which he won. Doornbos entered the consolation bracket, where he faced Eric Burns of Appalachian State. Cruising through with an 11-5 victory, Doornbos faced the Mocs’s Carr again, who he defeated 6-5 to earn third place in the conference. Doornbos finished the conference tournament 3-1 and the season with a 5-13 record.

In the 157-pound division, Bender entered the tournament with a fourth seed spot. Facing Nate Parmenter of UNC-Greensboro in the first round, Bender came away with a close 5-3 decision to move on to the semi-finals, where he faced number one seed Adam Britt of VMI. Britt pulled out the win with a 17-1 decision.Following a technical fall at the 4:42 mark, advancing him to the finals, which he won. Bender, however, moved onto the consolation bracket where he narrowly beat number six seed Vince Barges of the Citadel to move onto the consolation finals. Bender faced number two seed Quentin Bell of UTC, who managed the 7-4 win to earn third place. Bender finished fourth in the tournament, following a 2-2 record on the day. He ends the season with an impressive 20-18 record and ends his collegiate career at 53-59.

In the last Wildcat competition of the day, sophomore Mark O’Hair, at the number four spot, wrestled number five Chris Bird of UTC. After an 8-4 decision, O’Hair advanced to the semi-finals to take on number one seed Matt Erwin of VMI. Despite a strong effort, Erwin came away with a decisive 9-1 victory to proceed to the finals, which he eventually won. O’Hair moved into the consolation bracket, where he faced the number three seed Ron Williams of UNCG. O’Hair dominated the match, winning it 7-1 to advance to the consolation finals and once again face the Mocs’ Bird. In a close 8-7 decision, O’Hair pulled out the win to earn a third-place finish. O’Hair finished the tournament 3-1 and ends the season with a notable 17-15 record. His career record stands at an amazing 32-27, one of the best Wildcat records to date. O’Hair summed up the conference tournament in few words, “The conference tournament was a great ending to a tough season. We lost a lot of people.” The Wildcats end the season with three healthy wrestlers, all of whom went home from the conference with well-earned wins.

By JONATHAN CROOMS
Staff Writer

March is proving to be a difficult month for the Davidson College men’s tennis team; the Wildcats have gone 2-5 in their last seven matches. Just over halfway through the season, the Wildcats find themselves 1-3 in the Southern Conference and 6-7 overall. As tough as the past two weeks have been for the young squad, the ’Cats have gained valuable experience, which will prove vital as the team nears the Southern Conference Tournament in April. Of the five matches during spring break, the ’Cats were only able to come away with victories over the Citadel and James Madison, dropping the other matches to conference foes College of Charleston, Georgia Southern, and University of Tennessee-Chattanooga.

The bright spot of the trip came on Monday, March 4, when the Wildcats were forced to play two matches in the same day as a result of inclement weather. In the morning, Davidson defeated the Citadel 5-2. In the afternoon, the team rallied to capture a 4-1 victory against James Madison, a team that defeated them last year. This past week, the Wildcats dropped matches to Ivy League stronghold, Pennsylvania, and 59th nationally ranked Memphis. On Monday, the Pennsylvania Quakers easily prevailed over Davidson with a 7-0 victory, winning every match except number three doubles, where Geoffrey Mullen ’03 and Bryan Stonestreet ’04 pulled out an 8-4 victory.

In their most recent match against the Tigers of Memphis, the Wildcats were handed a 6-1 loss. In their Friday afternoon match against Memphis, the Wildcats lost all three doubles matches early, giving the Tigers the doubles point. Donald Miles ’05 and Rob Haywood ’04 were defeated 8-5 at number one doubles as Rob Vee ’02 and Rob Gould ’04 lost 8-2 at number two doubles. In their first doubles match together, the newly formed team of Mullen and Jonathan Britt ’04 were unable to capture a victory, losing 8-4 at number three doubles. In singles action, the Tigers defeated the Wildcats in five of the six matches. The squad’s seniors, Winebarger and David Webb ’02, lost their matches 6-3, 6-2 and 6-1, 6-2 at their respective number one and number two singles positions. The team’s number three and number six singles players, Haywood and Mullen, were also defeated in straight sets with their respective 6-2, 6-2 and 6-4, 6-2 losses.

On a more positive note, the team once again demonstrated its depth, as both Britt and Miles had three-set battles. Despite a formidable effort, Britt was unable to win the third set, losing 6-2, 2-6, 6-1 at number four singles. At the number five position, Miles emerged victoriously with a 6-1, 4-6, 7-5 victory, earning the only point of the day for the Wildcats. Despite the losses, the Wildcats have moved through one of the most difficult parts of their spring schedule. In fact, despite having already faced some of the conference’s most difficult opponents on the road, the team has yet to play any home conference matches. Head coach Jeff Frank has an optimistic outlook on the development of the team and the second half of the season, as the team is continuing to take away valuable playing experience with each match. “Everyone is getting experience,” Frank said. The experience that the Wildcats have garnered from the past two weeks’ matches will serve them well as they begin home conference play next weekend. The team has an entire week to prepare for their upcoming matches against Marquette on Friday, March 22 and conference opponent Wofford on Sunday, March 24.

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid is hiring 5 current students for the summer! Are you planning to live in Davidson? Do you want to help shape the future of Davidson or learn more about admissions? Consider working as a summer tour guide!

DATES: Late May until early August
PAY: $6.50/hr (plus possible housing assistance)

INTERESTED? Submit a resume and any references to MIKE BRADY in the Admission Office or by e-mail at mibrady@davidson.edu by March 27th. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to write or call at x2233.