By Emily Drew

News Editor

Planning for internships, summer jobs, or post-Davidson life can take up a lot of time that a lot of students
might not have.

Career Services, in Suite 414 Alvarez, offers students help and advice while planning for summer internships and post-Davidson plans. The
office can help find reliable contacts, work to perfect resumes, and search for jobs that fit individual interests.

According to Libby Westley, Assistant Director of Career Services, it’s important to start planning as soon as possible. She also
encourages job hunters and grad school applicants to have a backup plan.

“Have several options that you’re pursuing,” she says. “There’s a balance between knowing exactly what you want to do and
being open to other options.”

About 25 percent of Davidson graduates, she says, go on to graduate school right out of college.

The rest are on the job market in some capacity: interning, beginning a career, working a job while figuring out
long-term goals.

The office is hosting a career fair on Friday, Sept. 27 from 11:30 to 2:30 in the Brown Atrium, which
will feature employment representatives from companies including Wachovia, Gaston County Schools, American Express Investments, and the Southern Teachers Agency.

Recruiters will also attend from post-graduate schools, like UNCC College of Architecture and Johns Hopkins School of Government.

The Peace Corps, the U.S. Navy, Naval Financial, the Trial Court Administration, the Lash Group, McMaster-Carr Supply Company, and the
NC Blumenthal Center for Performing Arts will also have booths at the fair.

This Thursday, Sept. 26, Career Services will host a workshop, “Succeeding at a Career Fair,” in Alvarez 313 from 6-7
p.m. More information on the fair and the benefits of a preparatory workshop is available at one of Career Services’
best tools: Davidson eCareers.

At Davidson eCareers, registered students’ profile information includes their major, extracurricular interests, and career interests.

The Careers office can then plan programs to meet their needs and to identify employers to come to campus. The
eCareers website also displays available jobs and internships, a list of employers, and a calendar of upcoming campus events, including
job fairs and recruiting visits.

In addition to opportunities available at eCareers, the Career Services staff welcomes individual meetings with students to explore different occupations,
identify what students’ skills, interests, and values are, practice interview skills, conduct job or internship hunts, and improve their resume.

Walk-in hours are available for resume, letter, or essay critiques on Tuesdays from 11 a.m. to noon and Fridays from
2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Stop by Alvarez 414, call Career Services at x2132, or email careers@davidson.edu to make an
appointment with the appropriate Career Service representative.

---

The Davidson

Studio

Hair and Nail Design

Precision Hair Cutting
Color, Highlights, Perms
Spa Manicures and Pedicures

108 S. Main Street Suite E
Located near the Post Office
Walk-ins are welcome

Stylists: Peter DeLuke, Lisa Gabrielle, Suzette Pope, and Lale Ari
Specializing in the latest color techniques and styles as well as in facial waxing.

Licensed Nail Technician: Adele Carroll
Bring a friend and get 50% off Nail Service

704-987-1377

---

Sept. 26
“Suceeding at a Career Fair,” Alvarez 313, 6-7 p.m.

Sept. 27
Career Fair, 11:30 to 2:30, Brown Atrium

Oct. 5
LSAT Testing

Oct. 25
GRE Subject Test Registration Deadline

Nov. 6
LSAT Registration Deadline

Nov. 9
GRE Subject Test

---

Celebrate study breaks, exam time, or just for fun!

BEN & JERRY'S
VERMONT’S FINEST ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT
202 South Main Street - Davidson, NC

704-892-0604

---

Surprise college kids or campus chums with an ice cream or frozen yogurt cake for birthday or graduation celebrations.
