Reflections on another successful semester for Wildcat athletics

Well, the end of the semester is rapidly approaching and this is the last issue of The Davidsonian until mid-January. Many Davidson students (and probably a few parents and alumni for that matter) will now have to look elsewhere for material to read while sitting on the john. Looking back on it all, I’d have to say it’s been a pretty successful four months for Davidson athletics.

Coach Mike Toop’s football team finished sixth among Division I-AA mid-major teams, and senior linebacker Jim Carney was named the Pioneer Football League South Division’s Defensive Player of the Year. Men’s and women’s soccer each had successful seasons, finishing third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference, while senior goalie Soren Johnson garnered Verizon Academic All-America First Team honors for his outstanding work on and off the field. Led by all-SoCon selections Roberta Quis and Tisha Chapman, the volleyball team entered the conference tournament as the third seed, only to drop a tough semifinal match to second-seeded College of Charleston in five games.

Both cross-country teams participated in the NCAA Southeast Regionals where senior Brad Becken finished 17th overall, and the lady runners placed third at the SoCon Championships for the team’s best finish since joining the conference in 1985. Of course, we can’t forget Ben Friedell and the Wildcat golf team, whose first-place finishes at the Sea Trail Invitational were the first individual and team victories for Davidson at a golf event since... well, no one really knows, but it’s been a while.

As for this sports section, I can only hope we have brought you “all the news and information fit to print,” as the New York Times might say. This column has covered everything from the Red Sox (Yankees Suck) to ESPN (Max Kellerman Sucks), and taken a few too many cheap shots at New Yorkers in the process. But I’ve also discussed the role of the underdog in American athletics, the effects of 9/11 on the sports community, and the wild world of North Carolina public golf, among other things. And let’s not forget the now infamous Division III article, which seemingly caused more controversy among students, faculty, and alumni than Davidson’s current diversity problem.

If there were space this week, I probably would have written about high school football in Massachusetts, where all rivalries are played out on Thanksgiving—one of the greatest traditions in all of sports. Speaking of giving thanks, we should all be very thankful for the staff writers who have diligently and professionally reported on Davidson’s teams this fall. Walker Saik, Geoff Fehling, Becca McDevitt, Justin Neill, Brooke Kittinger, and Managing Editor Matt Garfield all did fantastic work bringing you, the reader, all the scores and highlights from Wildcat athletics. I’d also like to thank my co-sports editor Mike Giglio, who did all the behind-the-scenes work for this section, editing many of the articles and tediously putting together “The Week Ahead” box for every issue.

As you know, the winter season has already begun, with several important basketball match-ups this weekend—including a huge men’s game on Saturday against Charlotte at Belk Arena. The women’s team is also off to a promising start, with a big win over Charlotte on Tuesday. Until we return in January, though, you’re on your own to follow the success of Davidson’s winter teams.time being, I suggest keeping a few back issues of The Davidsonian lying around the bathroom. After all, the best seat in the house deserves only the finest literature.

Education at Work
Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and studying in Philadelphia! Financial Aid applies and Academic Credits transfer! www.philactr.edu 215-555-7300.

Volleyball
Quis, Martin, Teichgraeber finish careers in one of ‘best matches of season’
By MIKE GIGLIO
Sports Editor

“Our season had an almost perfect ending,” said Roberta Quis after the Davidson volleyball team lost in the semi-finals of the Southern Conference tournament, held in Belk Arena from Nov. 22 to 24. The Wildcats did indeed play on the brink of perfection in that match against College of Charleston, which went on to sweep Georgia Southern for the championship the following day. The ‘Cats challenged the Cougars for five games before eventually losing the close battle 30-22, 26-30, 30-23, 23-30, 15-11.

In what Quis calls “one of the best matches we played all season,” the Wildcats achieved an impressive amount of success against the most powerful team in the Southern Conference. After dropping the first game of the match, the ‘Cats bounced back to win the fiercely contested second game by taking the last four points. In game four, Davidson dominated defensively, holding Charleston to a .000 hitting percentage. After ties throughout the early portion of game five, the Cougars managed to pull away, putting the ‘Cats at 23-11 on the year.

Quis led the team in kills with eighteen, while Rebecca Teichgraeber capped off her season in fitting fashion with an eighteen-kill, nineteen-dig double-double. Kaitlyn Martin also came through with fifteen digs, as the senior ‘Cats stepped up in their final showing to the delight of the home crowd.

A day earlier, those seniors and their team had stepped up in a big way, sweeping Appalachian State (30-22, 30-24, 33-31) in the first round of the tournament. Playing with passion and determination, the ‘Cats never trailed in games one and two before taking game three for the victory. Quis again led the team with twelve kills, and she added a .409 hitting percentage. Tisha Chapman posted fourteen putaways and a .571 attack percentage.

Quis was named to the All-Tournament team, and she was selected to the All-Conference team along with Chapman. Despite a missed opportunity to go to the NCAA competition for the third time in four years, Martin and her teammates have positive memories of the tournament. “With a new coach and team, this season has been challenging, but the tournament showed how we could play,” she says. “We definitely appreciated the extra support of the student body. I’m impressed with how my teammates stepped it up and played the best we have all season.”

Quis agrees, “We came a long way from the beginning of the season, and I am so proud of everyone.”

The Wildcats return 10 players next season, including probable all-conference selections Latisha Chapman and Nicole Tonelli, both juniors. Sophomores Julia Hueckel and Meredith Lorenz join them to form a solid nucleus.

Christmas Sale
Dec. 13th - 25% OFF
Clothing, General Books, Stationery, Cards & Imprinted Gifts
(Excludes Textbooks)

Merry Christmas
The Bookstore Staff wishes you a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
Dec. 20th