The Davidsonian - Wednesday, September 11, 2002

Soccer stunner: Wildcats earn first ever win in Chapel Hill

UNC transfer Nicholson scores game's only goal

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

Matt Spear has heard the talk of this being a down year for his Davidson soccer team. The Wildcats’ roster is one of the youngest in recent memory, with only three seniors—compared to eight last year—and 11 freshmen.

“On paper this is a rebuilding year,” said Spear. “We see that as a positive. We have a new style and new leaders. One of the slogans we’ve used this year is ‘Let’s write our own history.’”

On Saturday night at North Carolina, the Wildcats wrote quite a first chapter. Davidson won 1-0 over the defending NCAA champion Tar Heels, earning its first win over UNC since 1997 and first ever win in Chapel Hill in 26 tries. Entering the match, North Carolina was riding a 15-game home unbeaten streak and an eight-game winning streak overall. The last loss for the Tar Heels came in the 2001 ACC Tournament semifinals against Clemson.

The win vaulted the Wildcats (2-0-1) to a No. 17 ranking in the Soccer America poll, and placed the program in the national spotlight for perhaps the first time since its improbable Final Four run in 1992.

“We’ve gotten an onslaught of phone and e-mail messages from former players and alumni,” said Spear, a 1993 Davidson graduate who played on the Final Four team. “They’re really excited that this team is so young, but has achieved something so good, so early. It’s a sign of things to come.”

Irony emerged in Saturday’s victory in two major ways. First, the team’s inexperience may have actually been an asset, says its coach. “With a young team, there’s a degree of innocence,” said Spear. “They didn’t know to be afraid. They hadn’t been around college soccer enough to be intimidated.”

And second, even more surprisingly, the player who scored the game’s only goal transferred to Davidson last year from North Carolina. Junior Keith Nicholson was offered a spot on Davidson’s roster after failing to make the UNC team during his first year at Chapel Hill. On Saturday, his former fraternity brothers waved a poster that read “Keith Sux” and taunted him for most of the game—all in good fun. But Nicholson got the last laugh on a goal that some would call lucky. Even Spear can’t hide a grin when asked how it happened.

Early in the second half, junior Nick Hansell dribbled past several UNC defenders to the left end line and crossed the ball toward Nicholson just in front of the Tar Heels’ goal. A North Carolina defender attempted to clear it, but the ball ricocheted off Nicholson and sailed past the stunned goalie into the net.

“The goal, I would say, was a fortunate bounce that went our way,” said Spear. “I wouldn’t say lucky because luck is always involved. It wasn’t a true shot per se; it was more of a rebound. But we’ll take it.”

Nicholson received most of the attention after Saturday’s upset, but Davidson’s defensemen were just as important in keeping UNC off the scoreboard. Of the four defensive players, only junior sweeper David Peoples has any significant experience. The other three—sophomore Joey Bass and freshmen NahumNavas and John Latting—are getting their first tastes of college soccer. “They played with a lot of energy and passion and grit,” said Spear. “We had to play a lot of team defense, realizing that we might lose some one-on-one battles. We knew we had to back each other up. Peoples was flawless in the back and was even winning headers over UNC towers four inches taller than him.” And maybe the biggest key to the shutout was the play of senior goalie Soren Johnson, who made several crucial saves late in the game to seal the win. “He made the difficult saves look routine,” said Spear. “I think when you have a strong goalie and sweeper, it makes your other defenders more confident and alert.” Johnson was rewarded for his efforts on Tuesday with a SoCon Player of the Week award.

After opening the pre-season with a 4-0 loss in the annual alumni game and a 2-1 scrimmage defeat against UNC Asheville, the Wildcats’ prospects seemed fairly dim. But since then, the team has steadily improved, with solid performances against Lehigh and Army. Saturday’s win was only the latest evidence that this team could be much better than expected. “We started out really slow and could’ve gotten down,” said Spear. “I hope we remember that we are a young team and are going to make mistakes. I hope we learn from them and remember our goal—to be at our best in mid-November, when it really matters.” Davidson opens its home schedule this Sunday against UNC Wilmington at 1 p.m.

Josh Greer/DTH
North Carolina defender Sean McGinty fights for control of the ball with Davidson forward Nick Hansel on Saturday at Fetzer Field.

Women sprint to fourth place finish
By Brooke Kittinger
Staff Writer

The women’s cross-country team started its season at the Covered Bridge Open in Boone, NC on Friday. The ‘Cats competed against a diverse field and placed fifth after University of Maryland, Appalachian State University, UNC Asheville, and Winthrop University, but defeated Lees McRae College. Winthrop’s Stephanie Vangsne was the top finisher at 18:12. The Wildcats’ top performers for the opening meet were the duo of Freshman Allie Martin and Junior captain Laura Puckett with times of 19:41 and 19:42, placing 20th and 21st in the field. Racing third for the ‘Cats in a stellar performance was Sophomore Sarah Baxter at 19:52. Teammates Liz Gross, Emily Einstein, and Lindley Swartz were close behind with times of 20:15, 20:27, and 20:39, respectively. Winthrop University in Rock Hill, SC hosts the Lady Wildcats’ next meet on September 21st.

Davidsonian
Latisha Chapman ‘04
Major: Economics
Hometown: Morganton, NC
Chapman garnered MVP honors at the Wildcat Classic and was also named SoCon player of the week for leading Davidson to a 3-0 mark last weekend.

Friday:
Volleyball vs. Nicholls State at New Orleans 5 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. Saint Louis at Madison, Wisconsin 5 p.m.

Saturday:
Football vs. Jacksonville 1 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Troy State, New Orleans at New Orleans 12:30 p.m.
Field Hockey vs. Catawba 1 p.m.

Sunday:
Field Hockey vs. Miami (Ohio) at Boone, N.C. 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. Wisconsin at Madison, Wisconsin 1 p.m.

Tuesday:
Volleyball at North Carolina 7 p.m.

Wednesday:
Field Hockey vs. Appalachian State 5 p.m.