Sigma Phi Epsilon Will Host

First-Ever Charity Run

By Jimmy Swansbrough
Special Contributor

What are you doing the weekend before Thanksgiving Break? For the fleet-footed, the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity is organizing a
Turkey Trot 5k run to benefit the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.

Organizers plan to make the race an annual event.

The race will be held Saturday, Nov. 23, at 9:30 a.m. Participants will race through the historic streets of Davidson,
starting and finishing at the town green on the corner of Main Street and Concord Road. Split times will be
read at the one- and two-mile marks.

The Sig Ep house is soliciting local businesses for sponsorship of the event in hopes that the participant entry fees
will be straight profit for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. The fraternity will also be accepting donations for the charity,
but hopes for a big student, faculty, and community turnout on race day.

All entrants will receive a t-shirt on the day of the race. The entry fee is $12 before November 20
and $15 on race day.

Awards will be given to the top two male and female finishers and the top two finishers in each of
eight age groups.

For more information about the event contact race directors Jimmy Swansbrough at (704) 894-6152 or Will Hale at (704) 894-6671.

Potassium iodide tablets will be available at the Student Health Center beginning Nov. 6, and they can be picked up
Monday through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m.

Students will be able to pick up pills for personal use only and will need to fill out a short
form (name, address, etc.) for the use of the Health Department.

Politics, from page 1

woefully lazy and unproductive when it comes to activism.”

Dr. Mary Thornberry, chair of the political science department, agreed. “These data make the students sound more politically involved than
I would suspect they really are. How many voted [in yesterday’s election]? Both Lee and Thornberry are justified in their
questioning of students’ activism.

Of the survey’s respondents, only 18.9 percent claimed to follow politics and current events very closely, while 39.3 percent follow
politics either not very closely or not at all.

Despite the implications of this week’s midterm elections, only 8.8 percent of respondents said they were following the 2002 elections.

Interestingly, though, conservatives and Republicans on campus are statistically more likely to be engaged in this year’s election than liberals
or Democrats.

Those familiar with the Princeton Review’s description of Davidson students as a “mix of Southern aristocrats” and “Bible-beating young Republicans”
with “a large liberal minority” are taking particular delight in the survey results. “I guess this ends the myth that
Davidson is only a big conservative Republicans,” said Emily Bostian ’06, secretary of the Young Democrats. “I would have bet
a chunk of change that the numbers would have been reversed. This has eaten the stereotype of Davidson as a
very conservative school. We actually have a wide range of views. I think this is great, and our diverse viewpoints
should enable us to have some good political discussions about the issues facing us, especially around election time.”

Bostian echoed Lee and Thornberry’s sentiment about political action, “I’d love to see people become more involved in politics on
campus.”

PCC info

Students are now able to buy PCC stickers at the Union Information Desk for $15 each.

Each sticker is valid for one semester and allows non-Patterson Court members to consume alcohol at any Patterson Court event
(sorry, over 21’s only).

(704) 896-6739

Davidson, NC
101 Depot St.
(NEXT TO BB&T)
joelsgrill.com

CATS' LATE NITE SPECIALS
(WED-SAT 10 PM - 1:30 AM)

$1 SUSHI
CONGEE (RICE PORRIDGE)
TERIYAKI DIS AND DAT
WRAPS (TOO MANY TO LIST)
NOODLE SOUPS (RAMEN, SOBA, ETC.)
RED BULL CONCOCTIONS
(NON-ALCOHOLIC & OTHERWISE)
AND MUCH, MUCH, MORE...

graduates with one-to-one academic advising.

apply by March 1.

For more information, visit

410-516-7748.

Pursue your dream of being a doctor and don’t have the academic records for acceptance to the best medical schools
by giving them the personal attention, necessary science and math courses, and:

www.jhu.edu/postbac or call
