THE DAVIDSONIAN

Winter weather forces track team off mountain

By Liz Gross
Staff Writer

The toughest competition facing the Davidson track and field team last weekend wasn’t the opposing runners, but the unpredictable North
Carolina weather. Freezing rain and wintry conditions forced the Wildcats to withdraw from the second day of competition in the
Appalachian State Indoor Meet last Saturday. The team was within 45 minutes of Boone, NC when icy mountain roads deemed
too dangerous for driving forced the bus to return to Davidson amid a miserable downpour of chilly rain.

A limited number of athletes were able to compete in events held on Friday afternoon. Sophomore Colby Broadwater represented Davidson
by placing fifth in the 5,000-meter run with a time of 16:08.5. He was followed closely by sophomore teammate Chris
Schmader, who placed eighth with a time of 16:37.2. The Wildcats also had several runners in the 200-meter dash, led
by junior co-captain Greg Schernecke. Schernecke placed twenty-fifth with a time of 23.79. He was followed by sophomore Andrew Pratt
at 24.39, freshman John Leverett at 25.11, and sophomore Randall Hardy at 25.49.

For the women, sophomore Amanda Yeck leaped to an eighth-place finish in the triple jump with a mark of 10.13
meters (33’03”). Since the majority of the meet’s events took place on Saturday, no other Davidson women had the chance
to compete in the indoor season opener. As of press time, there are no plans to make up the weekend’s
missed opportunities. Thirsty for competition rather than rain, the Wildcats will get a chance to sharpen their claws next weekend,
when the team travels to Chapel Hill, NC for the Blue Heaven Track and Field Rumble.

Greg Scott contributed to this article.

Women’s basketball suffers last-minute losses to Ga. Southern, UTC

ERIN DELK
Staff Writer

Even with a blazing 73.1 shooting percentage in the first half, Davidson was not able to pull out a victory
in Chattanooga this past Monday against conference foe UT-C. The ’Cats played the Mocs evenly in the first half, executing
their offenses and not folding under the typically intense defensive pressure of Chattanooga. As sophomore point guard Ashley Hallsted remarked,
Davidson was “playing great basketball. We were breaking the press, and they were having a lot of breakdowns on defense
with their coaches getting after them. We just felt great to be keeping our composure under their pressure and in
that hostile environment.”

Unfortunately, their composure did not continue in the second half, and as Hallsted noted, “the biggest thing in the second
half was not getting enough shots off due to turnovers. We were forced to go into junk defenses to come
back, and we were not able to match up with them equally as a result. Overall though, it was a
great game.” Davidson committed 26 turnovers in the game, and forced only 14. The Mocs sealed their lead early in
the second half with a three-point basket by Nneka Irons at the 17:06 mark, forcing Davidson to try to play
catch-up for the rest of the game. Even though the score did not turn out in favor of the ’Cats,
the girls, in particular senior guard Janna Magette, were not too disappointed with the outcome: “We played them to the
wire, even though the score might not have reflected it.”Losing some close games - Bethany Schott

Hot shooting under pressure gave Georgia Southern the edge over Davidson Saturday night as they pulled away in the closing
minutes to an 87-81 victory in Statesboro, GA. The ’Cats found themselves down early in the game but battled back
with stellar performances by sophomore center Meghan Bryant and senior forward Bethany Schott to cut the lead to nine going
into the half.

Bryant put in her best performance of the season, scoring a game and career-high 27 points. As teammate Robyn Flewelling
noted, Bryant “had an outstanding game. She dominated down low, in rebounding and scoring. She did it all for us.”
Unfortunately, Bryant’s performance could not counter the impressive shooting by Southern’s Danna Simpson, Sarah Davis, and Kristy McCorkle, who combined
for 39 points, or the free throws made down the stretch by Southern.

As sophomore point guard Lindsay Shade remarked, “They all had a really great shooting night, even their girls that are
normally not impressive shooters.” Bethany Schott agreed with Shade and lamented that “this loss was a huge disappointment. We played
hard, and we still lost. All of us feel we are a better team, but we are losing some close
games. Hopefully, we can catch them at home.”

After a Tuesday match-up at home against conference rival East Tennessee State, the girls will be in action again on
Saturday against the College of Charleston.

Courtney Laird looks for a teammate. Matt Whited

Women trample ETSU on Tuesday

Derek Smith
Sports Information

The Wildcats erupted for a school-record 103 points as Davidson downed East Tennessee State, 103-88, Tuesday night in Southern Conference
women’s basketball action before a crowd of 478 fans at Belk Arena.

Davidson (6-10, 3-5 SoCon) had a quartet of players in double figures led by sophomore guard Ashley Hallsted, who recorded
a career-best 26 points while dishing out 10 assists. Joining Hallsted in double figures were sophomore forward Meghan Bryant with
22 points, while senior guard Janna Magette and junior forward Bethany Schott added 19 and 16 points respectively. Bryant added
five blocked shots and a career-best 17 rebounds.

East Tennessee State (7-11, 2-7 SoCon) also had four players in double figures and was paced by 18 points from
both Misty Copas and Lauren Trantham. Erin Thurman and Ashley Reed scored 14 and 12 respectively.

The two teams seemed destined for a high-scoring shootout from the outset of the game and did not disappoint. Hallsted
got things started for the ’Cats with a three-point basket just nine seconds into the contest. A layup from sophomore
guard Robyn Flewelling put Davidson ahead, 9-4, with 17:29 left in the half. A pair of free throws from Bryant
put Davidson ahead for good, 23-21, with 12:22 on the clock. Sophomore guard Lindsay Shade knocked down the team’s seventh
three of the half to push the lead into double figures, 43-32. The Wildcats would extend the lead to as
many as 12 points before a basket by Shade with seven seconds on the clock made the halftime score 61-48
in favor of Davidson. The ’Cats shot a blistering 80.8% (21-26) from the floor in the first stanza.

The Wildcats hit the century mark for the first time since December 19, 1996, when they downed Manhattan 100-79 in
Belk Arena. In addition to that record, the Wildcats also set records for points in a half (61) and three-point
baskets in a game (12).
