America’s Team: The Underdog

“They say geniuses pick green. But you didn’t pick it.” Such were the words Robert DeNiro spoke to his future son-in-law, Ben Stiller, in the 2000 blockbuster *Meet the Parents* when discussing Stiller’s green rental car, which “the guy at the counter” selected. On Saturday, Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham picked the color green himself. 

No one seems to be calling Willingham a genius, however, after his Fighting Irish (No. 6 ESPN/USA Today, No. 4 AP) dropped a 14-7 decision to unranked Boston College in Saturday’s annual Catholic Super Bowl. For those not aware, Notre Dame stormed onto the field to face Boston College wearing green jerseys for the first time since a 1999 Gator Bowl loss to Georgia Tech. These green uniforms, which theoretically symbolize the luck of the Irish, earned national recognition in 1977 when the eventual national champions warmed up in their traditional blue home jerseys but returned to the field wearing green and went on to beat fifth-ranked Southern California.

“I thought [wearing green jerseys] was a good way to encourage our fans in our sea of green we have been talking about,” Willingham said after his first loss at Notre Dame. “It’s important, because it talks about an attitude, about the Notre Dame family coming together as one.” That family may have come together, with a reported crowd of 80,935 filling the stadium hoping to watch the Irish rattle off their ninth consecutive win, but the Notre Dame team fell apart. Fumbling the ball seven times, the Irish literally watched as an undefeated season and national championship hopes slipped out of their hands.

The loss conjured up a memory of the 1993 season, when unbeaten Notre Dame defeated Florida State and became the top-ranked team in the country, only to lose the following week against Boston College in the final game of the regular season as David Gordon (God bless him) kicked a 41-yard field goal with no time remaining to give the Eagles a 41-39 victory. Ironically enough, Notre Dame entered Saturday’s game confident it had returned to its glory years following a big win at none other than Florida State last week. Deja-vu much?

Coming into the weekend, eight teams boasted an undefeated record in Division 1-A football, including Notre Dame. By Sunday morning, though, only four teams with perfect records remained, and of those just three (Oklahoma, Miami, and Ohio State) can win the national title—Bowling Green can’t accumulate enough points under the BCS system to play in the Fiesta Bowl. Joining Notre Dame on the list of unbeatens falling to an unranked opponent last weekend were Virginia Tech, Georgia, and N.C. State, whose losses significantly shook up the already flawed BCS standings—an issue that deserves its very own article.

But aren’t upsets what sports are all about? Forget the Dallas Cowboys, the Underdog is indisputably America’s favorite team. We all have our own teams that we grew up with and passionately support, but who didn’t get chills when the Mighty Ducks knocked off the arch-rival Hawks back when Disney produced decent sports movies? No one actually roots for Bill Gates to win the lottery, or for Brad Pitt to get the girl, we all know that—which makes me wonder where all these Yankees fans come from (cheap shot, I know). Americans hold a special place in their heart that desperately yearns for the upset, and Boston College’s win on Saturday epitomizes what is known as the underdog experience.

With their top two defenders out with injuries, the shorthanded Eagles had to dig a little bit deeper and work a little bit harder to stop a Fighting Irish team that had scored on 21 of 24 possessions in the red zone this season. And so, as the last...of Notre Dame’s passes went incomplete, one could not help but smile. For in the annual Catholic Super Bowl, David had slain Goliath once again.

By Justin NEILL
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team finished its season with a difficult three-game stretch against UNC-Greensboro, UNC-Wilmington, and College of Charleston, playing all three on the road in a span of five days from Wednesday to Sunday. And while the Wildcats scored eight goals in the three games, they managed only one win to finish the season at 8-9-1, 6-3-1 in the Southern Conference, good enough for fourth place.

Things looked bad on Wednesday at defending tournament champion UNC-Greensboro when Rakel Logadottir of the Spartans scored only two minutes into the match with her first goal of the season. Logadottir scored again in the 15th minute on an assist from Cara Hammond, and the game seemed out of reach going into halftime since the ‘Cats had not climbed out of a two-goal deficit all season, and they had only won one game (East Tennessee State) when trailing at the half.

But senior forward Heather Maloney scored her eighth goal of the season only thirty seconds into the second half on a UNCG defensive mistake. An own-goal knotted the score in the 50th minute, and the Wildcats had the momentum back. Even after Hammond scored on a rebound only four minutes later to give the Spartans the edge back, junior forward Leigh Anne Hoskins assisted senior Tara Maloney in beating Jennifer Stillman for a 3-3 tie. The game stayed tight, but in the 83rd minute Hammond got another shot on goal that ‘Cats goalie Sarah Hobart saved but bobbled, and Cheryl Stewart scored to give the Spartans a 4-3 win.

Traveling on Saturday to non-conference foe UNC-Wilmington, things quickly started off in the wrong direction again when Jen Knoblich headed in a goal in the first minute. Heather Maloney, though, scored her ninth goal of the season and the 36th of her career (putting her alone in second place all-time) in the 20th minute on a direct free kick to tie the score at 1-1. The ‘Cats again fought back from their fifth deficit in two games in the 75th minute when junior midfielder Amy Lietch scored her first collegiate goal on assists from Hoskins and Heather Maloney. Unfortunately, this game ended the same as the last, with Mindy Hauptmann getting a shot to dribble into the left corner in the 87th minute to hand the ‘Cats a heartbreaking 3-2 loss.

Sunday was more encouraging, however, as the Wildcats held the College of Charleston Cougars scoreless through the recently fatal first five minutes. Hoskins started the scoring in the 29th minute with an unassisted goal, and Amy Johnston scored on a cross from Heather Maloney to give the ‘Cats a 2-0 lead at halftime. Junior Denielle Erikson scored unassisted in the 62nd minute for a 3-0 lead before Claire Wigfall scored with five minutes to play to provide the 3-1 final margin.

Hopefully, the trend of increased scoring will continue into the weekend, where the fourth-seeded Wildcats will face UNC-Greensboro in the first round for the second straight year. The opening touch is set for Friday at 5 p.m. Last year, the Spartans won 1-0 on their way to a conference championship, and they are the hosts this year. Furman, which gave up only four goals in ten conference games while scoring 37 and going unbeaten, will certainly be the favorite in the tournament. Western Carolina, who gave up only six goals in ten conference games and was the only team to take Furman to overtime, is also a team to be reckoned with.

Sports Information
Members of the women’s soccer team sign autographs after a game.

Language classes available at all levels
Month, summer, semester, yearlong programs
Internships
Field tours