Spooky Frailty has good intentions, poor execution
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

We all know Bill Paxton’s name. We all know his face. Most of us, though, have trouble putting both together.
Paxton has starred in a variety of films, from commercial favorites such as Twister, Aliens, and True Lies to critically
championed films. Looking at his filmography is somewhat shocking: was he really in Titanic, One False Move, Apollo 13, and
A Simple Plan? Paxton is one of Hollywood’s great unsung heroes.

Now comes Frailty, a supernatural thriller that Paxton wrote and directed. Is now his time to sing? Most critics seem
to think so. Check out Frailty’s statistics at RottenTomatoes.com. Three out of every four reviews for the film are favorable.
And considering that last year’s critical darling, A Beautiful Mind, is just above that mark, three-for-four isn’t that bad at
all. Actually reading the reviews is even more surprising. Ebert and Roeper are hailing it as one of the best
movies of the year. And The New York Times says, “[Frailty] forcefully reminds us of the degree to which all
of us are our parents’ ideological captives when we’re children.”

The film is told in a flashback, Verbal Kint-style. Fenton Meiks (played effectively by Matthew McConaughey) drives himself to an
FBI office and seeks out agent Wesley Doyle (Powers Boothe). Doyle has been looking for God’s Hand, a serial killer
that claims his victims in the name of God. The McConaughey character tells the officer that his brother is the
God’s Hand Killer, and with his family history, Fenton explains how and why he knows this information.

Their father (Bill Paxton) raised Fenton and his brother Adam alone after his wife died giving birth. He is a
loving, hardworking man that would do nothing to harm his children. One night an angel visits Paxton’s character. (In case
you’re wondering, we do get to see the angel. He’s not one of those Hollywood beings of light. Nope, he
has wings, a shield, and a Santa Claus beard to match.) Apparently, God wants to send Paxton and company some
magic weapons and a list of demons to kill. Brent Hanley’s script drives right in. Are there magic weapons? Well,
there’s an axe named Otis that’s bathed in light. Are there demons? Well, that’s for you to decide, but the
filmmakers...

---

Ludacris, from page 1

...researched several recent Ludacris concerts, and found that Radford and James Madison universities were pleased with the performances they hosted.
The Union Board also contacted representatives of the rap group Outkast and folk singer Paul Simon, but negotiations broke off
before a contract could be reached, said Brown.

College President Bobby Vagt, who encourages the Union Board to schedule two big-name acts every year, said he supported the
effort to bring Ludacris, but acknowledged that others might not approve. “I understand that some might find the lyrics offensive,
in which case I assume those students won’t attend,” he said. “With each act, you need to make a judgment
about whether we will subject students to something they shouldn’t be subjected to. Since attendance at this concert is voluntary,
we passed that one alright.”

Vagt said he has received only positive feedback from students. “I’ve only heard from students who are excited about the
concert,” he said. “I think (Ludacris) is a group that is widely appreciated and very popular, and the Union Board
said this was something they wanted to do.” He added, “At other colleges and universities, they have been well-received and
respectful.”

Asked if a similar type of music has ever been brought to Davidson, Vagt said only George Clinton, who performed
at Belk Arena several years ago, comes to mind. Counting Crows performed for a neat capacity crowd in October. Njie
said the school’s top administrators got behind the idea after seeing the results of the survey. “They might not have
heard of him, but they have been extremely supportive,” said Njie. “All they wanted to know is what the students
wanted. When they found out the students did want Ludacris to come, they said ‘Let’s do it.’”

One of hip-hop’s rising stars

Ludacris, whose real name is Chris Bridges, 24, is on tour to promote his third album, Word of Mouf, which
has spent 19 weeks on the Billboard Top 200 List, and is currently at No. 9. His most popular hits
also include “Roll Out (My Business),” “Ho” and current singles “Area Codes” and “Saturday (Ohh Ohh).” Ludacris often performs with
a crew called Disturbing the Peace, which includes Shawna, Little Fate, Infamous 2-0, 4-IZE and Shondrae, according to his website,
Ludacris-Online.com. “We make such a good team, because each person brings something different to the table,” he told the site.
“But, we all wild out and live every day as though it were our last. Believe me, if you lived
next door to D.T.P., you would be knocking on the door demanding we turn down the noise.”Here is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

would have you believe that yes, demons do exist, at least in Frailty. The tension in the film revolves around
young Fenton and his father. He believes his dad is insane. After a few divinely-ordered murders, young Fenton finally goes
to the police and forever changes the dynamic of his family. What happens after this point would be unfair to
reveal. I will say that the conclusion is handled well: all the characters stay true to themselves, and the story
never cheats. The end might seem to pull a Fight Club/Usual Suspects cheap ending, but think it through before dismissing
it. As for Frailty as a whole... My initial reaction was bad, something along the lines of, “That was absolutely
horrible.” Then I began to think it through more. The story, even if over the top, stays true to its
characters and ideas. However, there are times when “cheesy” is the only appropriate word with which to describe the movie.
For example, Paxton’s Dad calls him and his sons “A family of superheroes.” There’s also the aforementioned visualization of the
angel. And the sets, namely the rose garden, are obviously creations on a soundstage. Frailty also fails as horror. Was
I scared? Not really. The movie has its moments, but it never gets under our skin to become truly terrifying.
If only the filmmakers found a more visually and emotionally stimulating style and tone... To be fair, I don’t think
Paxton and his collaborators wanted Frailty to be a horror film. The heart of Frailty is in its ideas about
religion and the trust between parent and child. Paxton’s character — and the film — truly believes that he is
carrying out the word of God. He is not a horrible man, just one afflicted by God’s will. Is it
Paxton’s time to sing? I'd like to think so, but Frailty fails on too many levels, poorly executing its interesting
ideas of devotion — to God and parent — despite the sound structure of its screenplay.

-Davidsonian Arts & LIVING

Like art? Like living? Come on, don’t we all? Join the Davidsonian staff and put some life in the Living
section. For more information, or a ses time, email deloh or ace.

Disturbing the Peace, which includes Shawna, Little Fate, Infamous 2-0, 4-IZE and Shondrae, according to his website, Ludacris-Online.com. “We make
such a good team, because each person brings something different to the table,” he told the site. “But, we all
wild out and live every day as though it were our last. Believe me, if you lived next door to
D.T.P., you would be knocking on the door demanding we turn down the noise.”

Wit, from Shakespeare Special, page 6

you’ve sworn off women for Lent only to have Anna Kournikova move in next door. Love’s Labour’s is a triumph
of dirty jokes. It’s a play where you can add “in bed” to the end of any given line and
chances are it will help divulge Shakespeare’s intended meaning. No, seriously. Consider the following exchange:

Maria: A mark marvelous well shot, for they both did hit it.
Boyet: A mark says my lady! / Let the mark have a prick in’t... And if my hand be out,
then belike your hand is in.
Costard: Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin... She’s too hard for you at pricks, sir. Challenge
her to bowl.
Boyet: I fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl.

Don’t be fooled, they’re talking about archery. At least, they’re supposed to be. But again, sexual repression will do wonders
for the mind.

A key result of all of this is that Love’s Labour’s is incredibly entertaining. It’s Shakespeare’s most rhyming play, and
one of his most lyrical. Fast-paced wits translate into fast-paced letters to forbidden lovers—which, when wrongly distributed, yield a fast-paced
mess. The play captivates with playful humor, layered dramatic irony, and an ending famous for its unprecedented nature. And we
are reminded through it all of the folly of our own bloated self-images. Honing the intellect is fine, until it
ceases to be a means to an end and becomes a means to itself. Book smarts hold up just fine
till beset with challenges beyond their realm—not the least of which, Shakespeare’s old favorite, love. An artifice of words and
wit may prove a temporary salve, but in reality it breeds compounded desire, as the characters learn “abstinence engenders maladies.”
Where can one study how to love save through loving? There are certain things you just can’t learn in school.

“To study Shakespeare at a place like Davidson College is to be prompted constantly to ask why we’re here and
what we intend,” writes teacher and director of Love’s Labour’s Lost Dr. Cynthia Lewis. “For even if the end of
a liberal arts education is learning itself, all that knowledge will amount to little if it bears no fruit.”

So reflect the next time you find yourself muddled in academics and your own “wit” at the expense of all
else. It is, after all, easy enough to cure a bad case of all work and no play. Why not
start by seeing this one.
