Mexico/Caribbean: $300 round trip plus tax
Europe: $169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000

The Theological Exploration of Vocation program gives support for seminary
By Robyn F. Foss
Staff Writer

The five spring semester recipients of the Lilly Scholarship in Religious Vocation and Leadership have been named. Dan Morris ‘03,
Elaine Baker ‘03, Kristine Harrington ‘03, David Tolley ‘03, and Emily Kuhn ‘03 have all been awarded the Lilly Scholarship.
The purpose of the Lilly Scholarship is to encourage students who have been identified as possessing gifts for ministry to
explore ordained ministry as a possible vocation. Members of the junior class are nominated for the scholarship by faculty, staff,
and local clergy. The scholars are selected by the members of the Pre-Ministerial Committee.

The scholarship recipients are required to intern in a religious congregational setting in the summer after junior year; participate in
a non-credit seminar during senior year; and begin attendance at a religious seminary within three years of graduating. In return,
the students receive $10,000 towards both their senior year at Davidson and an additional $10,000 toward a challenge year in
the seminary or divinity school of their choice.

The Lilly Scholarship is one of the most successful initiatives of the Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation,
headed by the Religion department’s Dr. Tim Beach-Verhey. Working closely with the Pre-ministerial committee and the Chaplain’s office, the Lilly
Programs help coordinate programs for students interested in pursuing religious education and church vocations. Besides working with the Lilly Scholars,
the office tries to encourage all the nominees for the scholarship to explore a possible religious vocation, through an annual
dinner for Lilly Scholarship nominees and Theological Education Day.

According to Dr. Beach-Verhey, however, the Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation are not limited to those who
are interested in ordained ministry as a possible vocation. In fact, he mentions three purposes for this program: The first
is to “encourage students who possess gifts” for ministry to explore such a vocation. Secondly, the programs seek to encourage
all Christians to think about the work they do, whatever it is, as a vocation and not simply a job,
career, or profession. Finally, Beach-Verhey says that the Lilly programs work to encourage all people, Christian and otherwise, to “think
about the meaning of their lives and the purpose of their daily work.”

Dr. Beach-Verhey, himself an ordained Presbyterian minister, emphasizes the fact that the scholarship is not meant solely for people entering
Presbyterian ministry. It is for anyone who wishes to study for a career in religious leadership—no matter what their denominational
background. Members of the senior class who are currently Lilly Scholars are: Joel Hanisek ‘02, Sarah Schmidt ‘02, Elizabeth Summerlin
‘02, Richard Vinson ‘02, and Elizabeth Marie Melchionna ‘02.

Chambers will undergo major renovations
Five-phase construction plan will enhance classroom space, faculty offices
By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

First, the good news: the Chambers building is about to undergo major changes to make it a better place for
students and faculty alike. The bad news: if you’re currently a Davidson student, you will have to return after graduation
to see the finished product. Chambers is going to be gradually renovated between May 2002 and August 2005. The plan
will be executed in five separate phases, with the noisiest construction taking place during the summers.

David Holthouser, Physical Plant’s Director of Facilities and Engineering, explained that much thinking has been done on phasing, as to
allow Chambers to be a functional academic building during the academic year. According to Holthouser, the construction will proceed in
five multistep phases, broken down as follows.

Phase 1: May ’02 — August ’03
May ’02:
* A construction road will be paved from Jackson Court into Richardson Plaza (the area between the library and Chambers)
to accommodate construction vehicles.
* One of the large green construction fences will be set up around nearly all of Richardson Plaza.

July ’02 — May ’03:
* Love Auditorium will be transformed into 28 new offices and six new classrooms; a new floor will separate the
now two-storied room into two distinct floors.
* Chambers Gallery will also undergo major changes; a lobby will be added onto the rear of the space.

May ’03 — August ’03:
* Evacuate three classrooms and six faculty offices to construct new bathrooms onthe main halls of Chambers. The six faculty
offices will be displaced temporarily to Cunningham, which will have some open space due to the completion of the new
music building. Holthouser explained that building inspectors have mandated these new bathrooms to be built before the renovated Love Auditorium
wing can be opened for use.

Phase 2: August ’03:
* The fence around Love will be moved to the north wing of Chambers, so that the south end of
the Plaza will be open again.
* The Love wing will open, complete with a new East Entrance to Chambers.
* All 46 faculty offices and 12 classrooms on the north wing of Chambers will be evacuated. However, the 28
new faculty offices and six new classrooms in the Love wing will be available for use. The overflow from this
evacuation will move many offices and classes into Eu Hall, Elm Row, Cunningham, Grey, the library, and the Union.
* Classroom and office spaces will be renovated.

Phase 3: May ’04 — August ’04
* The fence will be moved again, this time to the south end of the Plaza. The north end will
be completely re-landscaped by a company out of Charlottesville, VA.
* Perkins Auditorium will be renovated. Holthouser explained that because this is the only classroom space of its kind on
campus, the renovations must take place during the summer. When completed, Perkins will have one of the building’s three new
elevators, and will operate from the first floor of Chambers all the way up to the dome.

Phase 4: May ’04 — May ’05
* This phase will partially overlap with Phase 3, and will see the renovation of the South wing of Chambers.
* 23 faculty offices, 15 classrooms, and the administration wing will all be evacuated. The completed 36 offices and 13
classrooms will help, but overflow will once again be directed into Elm Row, Grey, Cunningham, and the Union. Administrative offices
will move temporarily to Phi and Eu Halls.

Phase 5: ’05 — August ’05
* The Chambers Lobby and the areas directly above it on the 2nd and 3rd floors will be renovated.
* The construction fence will be removed.
* Richardson Plaza’s re-landscaping will be completed.
* The construction road will be removed, and the project will be completed.

When construction is finished, Chambers will have the same number of classrooms, but they will be spatially configured so as
to have small-, medium-, and large-sized spaces for the various types of classes held in the building. Holthouser explained that
some of the plans show horseshoe-shaped, tiered classrooms, which will be ideal lecture spaces. Others will be similar in style
to the Language Resource Center, with computers lining the walls of the classroom. There will be an additional 21 faculty
offices when renovations are completed. This will be an added benefit for some professors who are working in sub-standard offices
because there is simply not enough room for them currently. As things stand now, professors often must pack up their
entire offices when they leave for a sabbatical to make room for another professor. Extra space will help to alleviate
some of these problems, Holthouser said.

Court, from page 1
A team staffed by Shannon Bishop (’03-Connor) and P.J. Martin (’04-Pi Kappa Alpha) held a debate on changing the policy
of switching eating houses. The proposed changes made the length a woman had to switch eating houses increase from one
semester to one year. This was backed by the idea that requiring them to stick it out would encourage the
students to make the best of the situation even if it is not in the house they originally wanted. A
vote was then taken on this proposal but it was not passed. According to PCC Advisor Grahaeme Hesp, the Patterson
Court office can deal with as many as 80 women per year seeking to switch houses. Hanks said he was
satisfied with the outcome and with the hard work of the teams, but was not sure what was going to
happen with the proposals next. Hesp was also unsure of if or how the changes would be implemented. He can
only say that he would probably meet with Dean Tom Shandley and discuss the matter.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER
4/18/02
A former Davidson student was found on campus in violation of a trespass warning. The former student was removed from
the campus and charged with trespassing.
