Mexico/Caribbean: $300 round trip plus tax
Europe: $169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE www.airtech.com or 212-219-7000

Construction continues on music building
- Music department’s new home will have more space in improved facilities
By Linny Baldwin © News Editor

Music majors, piano players, singers and those who just love music will soon have reason to rejoice. The Music Department’s new home — the historic Grey building, formerly the College Union — is slated to open in Fall 2002, with a new recital hall, bigger music library and improved practice facilities.

According to Tim Brotherton, the Associate Director of Engineering and Construction, the new music building is “truly on schedule.” This news should calm the fears of students and faculty who remember the multiple postponements of the Alvarez Union opening. The major project — lowering the entire basement floor by four feet — has already been completed. “Everything else after that is pretty easy!” Brotherton noted.

Except for a few remaining staircases, the old Grey College Union is practically unrecognizable. Brotherton said that the “vast majority” of the building’s inner architecture was redone; only one wall and a handful of stairwells remain. A small atrium has been added to give the building a more “open” feeling. Most of the old Union’s randomly placed small rooms are gone in favor of larger and more utilitarian spaces. A freight elevator has also been added to assist in the moving of pianos and other large instruments.

The basement level consists mostly of faculty offices and practice rooms. Unlike the current practice rooms, these newly-constructed spaces will have double-thick walls that will completely damp out the noise from adjacent rooms. The acoustics in each room will also be improved thanks to their asymmetric shapes, Brotherton explained.

The first level will contain more faculty offices, plus the new Music Library. This new library will be a vast improvement over the old one, currently tucked away in a windowless room of the Cunningham Fine Arts building. There will be a separate “group listening” room where multiple students can listen to music, and there will be much more space for computers, tables and bookshelves. Also on the first level is a new lecture hall (which will be shared by the Chemistry department) and a smaller seminar room.

The second level will be home to Ray Sprague’s new tiered choir hall. Brotherton explained that this new choir room will also feature a system of sliding filing cabinets where Sprague can store his music. Across the hall, Music Department chair Bill Lawing will find his new band room — with a high ceiling and a separate room for instrument storage.

Rounding out the second floor is a dramatic new recital hall. The venue will seat 150 on the ground level; the rows of seats will be slightly tiered for better viewing. Like the C. Shaw Smith 900 room, there will be a balcony overlooking the stage from all angles — an ideal place for singers, or extra audience members. Brotherton calls the recital hall balcony “my favorite spot in this building.”

One of the most exciting features of the new building will be its recording capabilities. On the basement level there will be a traditional recording studio, with a glass window separating the performer from the recording equipment. The recording studio will also be capable of communicating with and recording performers in the second-floor recital hall. Brotherton said there may even be a camera to give the people in the recording studio visual contact with the performer; an intercom will also enable the musician to communicate with the recording studio.

With its increased space and improved facilities, the renovated Grey building will be a welcome home for the growing Music program.

Students work on Dole, Bowles campaigns
High-profile North Carolina Senate race attracts Davidson volunteers
By NickASMA Senior Staff Writer

Interest in politics and a tight local senatorial race have drawn many students from across campus to volunteer for local campaign efforts.

Two students in particular have volunteered extensive amounts of time supporting their party. Junior Matt Paramore ’03 plans to serve as a summer intern for the leading Democratic candidate Bowles at campaign headquarters in Raleigh. Trevor Stanley ’02 volunteers for leading Republican contender Elizabeth Dole in Salisbury, 30 minutes north of Davidson. Both are currently helping to organize students on campus to volunteer as well.

Though the primary elections have yet to occur, both volunteers expect their candidates to win and eventually face each other next fall in a tightly contested senatorial election. Paramore looks forward to this summer, during which he’ll have the opportunity nearly every day to work with senior staffers who run the campaign. He has limited experience with campaign politics, but in the past, he has attended numerous events and rallies and even helped stage one local campaign effort. He claims that thus far Bowles has “run an outstanding campaign” and though the primaries will be contested, he “expects Bowles to pull through.” “He has the best name recognition of any primary candidate and formidable experience.” The two main primary challengers to Bowles include Elaine Marshall, N.C. Secretary of State, and Dan Blue, former speaker of the N.C. House.

He expects next November’s general elections to be a tough race as well. “Assuming Bowles wins the primary, the general election will be the tightest, most hotly contested Senate race in the country,” noted Paramore. Paramore encourages others to support the local race through volunteering, noting that “there is all kinds of volunteer work in campaigns. If you’re interested in volunteering, there’s something you can do to help.” If interested in helping, students can contact Paramore, who will put them in touch with campaign officials. “We’re working with the Young Democrats to have a campaign representative available to meet with students all day in the Union on Friday, April 26th. She’ll be able to help students find opportunities to volunteer and assist with voter registration.” Paramore also notes the importance of students registering and voting in the primaries.

With the Republican primaries quickly approaching sometime in May, volunteers for Dole are also working intensely to gather support for their candidate. Like Paramore, Stanley is recruiting students to help with the campaign. He has signed up 40 people already, and Stanley currently hopes to gather 50. “Davidson students are lucky to attend the school at a time when they can become involved in the most important senatorial race in the country,” said Stanley. The campaign is drawing many volunteers from colleges around the area, including Davidson, Duke, Catawba College, and High Point University.

Stanley enjoys the volunteering, emphasizing in particular the camaraderie amongst workers. On the night of the Oscars, he said, Dole campaign representatives invited Davidson student volunteers Lauran Lightmas ’04, Nancy Kohler ’03, Brandon Hood ’03, Welles Campbell ’04, and Andy Wright ’02 to their house to watch the event. Dole announced her candidacy only two months ago, so volunteers are currently working with official representatives to help her garner the support to claim the seat of the retiring Jesse Helms. He expects that the current work Davidson students are doing will create greater future opportunities and responsibilities. The ultimate goal, he claims, is to bring Dole to Davidson next fall for a debate between her and the Democratic candidate.

The campaign is currently going well, and Stanley expects Dole, the former head of the American Red Cross, to win the general election on Nov. 5th by focusing on bringing jobs and better education programs to North Carolina. Students interested in helping with the Dole campaign should contact Stanley. However, as he and Paramore both note, victory is not assured for either candidate. “It will come down to who runs the best campaign,” noted Stanley. “I know the efforts of Davidson students will be instrumental in helping either Dole or Bowles claim the Senate seat over the summer and into the debate season next fall.”