DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2002 VOLUME 93, NUMBER 13

MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY
Performers in Sunday’s “MLK Gospel Explosion” were some of many involved in this weekend’s celebrations honoring Dr. Martin Luther King
Jr. See page 2 for details.

Pledge season begins anew
85 males accept bids to fraternities
By Emily Drew
Senior Staff

Eighty-eight Davidson men pledged to the college’s seven fraternities this weekend during Self-Selection 2002. An additional 10 joined the coed
eating house, CoHo. For the second year in a row, Kappa Alpha led the pack with 20 new members. Sigma
Phi Epsilon came next with 19, followed by Sigma Alpha Epsilon with 16 and Pi Kappa Alpha with 14. Phi
Delta Theta had 11 pledges, Kappa Sigma nine, and Phi Gamma Delta one.

The self-selection process applies to both eating houses and fraternities, but the process of joining a frat requires a bit
more of the candidates than does the eating house process. Women joining an eating house rank their preferences, while men
interested in CoHo simply select this option; both male and female eating house members pay dues at a later date.

The process of joining a fraternity begins in mid-September after “First Night Down,” when rush officially begins and freshmen are
invited to dinner, parties, and off-campus activities with fraternities. This process allows the rushees to meet the brothers of the
different houses and decide if they are interested in the house. Although men technically self-select at Davidson, the process usually
begins with an invitation, or bid, from a fraternity to join.

“If a fraternity becomes interested in a rushee, it votes to give him a bid, which is in no way
binding,” said Jimmy Swansbrough ‘03, president of Sig Ep. “The freshman may potentially get a bid to every single fraternity
on the court. He and he alone chooses which one he’d like to join, if at all.” Bids are usually
accepted and announced publicly at a house party. Later, with activities during self-selection weekend, the student officially becomes a pledge.
Pledges complete the requirements for membership to the house that they choose to join. Eventually, they become brothers and can
enjoy the benefits of their house, including meals, parties, formals, and other activities.

Surprisingly, men may also self-select a fraternity without receiving a formal bid. If a man chooses to receive a “social
member-

see Frats, page 2

Choir, Jazz Ensemble, Orchestra end winter break on a sound note
By Colin Eagan
News Editor

Despite snow and ice threatening roads up and down the eastern seaboard on the weekend of Jan. 5, just under
100 Davidson students set out to return to school a full week early. The members of the Davidson College Concert
Choir, Jazz Ensemble, and Symphony Orchestra departed from campus to

New noise rules ease restrictions on partiesWill be allowed if noise standards are met

By Nick Asma
Senior Staff

The Office of Public Safety recently changed its interpretation of quiet hours for Patterson Court on weeknights following a push
by Gray Patterson ’03 and other student leaders. The move potentially allows unregistered parties on weeknights to continue indefinitely through
the night if students abide by noise level standards.

Campus police officers previously had misinterpreted Red Book rules regarding quiet hours throughout campus. Students attending ‘impromptu’ parties on Patterson
Court on weeknights frequently clashed with officers over noise rules and quiet hours. Partygoers complained of officers coming in at
midnight and kicking people out of houses by quoting quiet hours. This policy produced a herding effect whereby students would
move to different houses before officers shut them down and would eventually make their way to the senior apartments. The
resulting effect limited social activity on the court for students seeking a late-night outlet from work.

Patterson and others took the initiative to correct the quiet hours policy after noticing the detrimental effects of the current
system. To allow students to remain on the court longer in the evenings, Patterson concluded that quiet hours must change.
After meeting with campus authorities and proposing a change of quiet hours to SGA, Patterson reached an agreement with the
Office of Public Safety, which admitted to having interpreted the policy incorrectly.

According to Director of Public Safety, Sam McKelvey, officers “understood the quiet hours restriction in the Red Book to pertain
to all areas of the campus. The group affected brought the matter to my attention and pointed out, accurately, that
the Red Book community see Noise, page 2

SELF-SELECTION 2002 INITIATION: The Women of Turner House celebrated Self-Selection 2002 this Friday, welcoming 35 new members to their ranks.
Page 4

Music groups conclude winter tours

Music groups from Davidson College toured across the country in the last week of winter break, performing at such varied
locations as Key West, Dallas, and New Orleans. More than 50 members of the Concert Choir, under the direction of
Ray Sprague, clocked plenty of bus miles, traveling to cities as close as Birmingham and as far as Dallas. A
highlight of the tour was a two-night stay in New Orleans, where the choir performed at the famous St. Louis
Cathedral. Concerts at Presbyterian churches in Little Rock, Houston, and Nashville were also on the agenda. The Chamber Singers, a
smaller, select ensemble composed of members of the Concert Choir, performed at each concert as well.

Choir members enjoyed a balance of performance and recreational time. “I’m so happy I went on this year’s choir tour,”
said Kimberly Woods ’05. “I had a great time visiting new cities and getting to know the people in choir
better.”

The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra and Jazz Ensemble joined forces for a southern tour, traveling to various locations throughout Georgia
and Florida. Orchestra director Milton Crotts and Jazz Band director William Lawing led students in performances at the Hill United
Methodist Church in Augusta, and the historic Centro Asturiano de Tampa, among others. A stop in see Tour, page 4
