Café, from page 1

During the summer, he and his staff worked hard to improve the food offered at the union. “I’ve been able
to make many improvements because of the staff. In part because of the economy, I’ve got new people who are
really good cooks, professional cooks. Holdover employees are good too. Once the staff was trained, we experimented during the summer
because we didn’t have the volume [of customers] we have during the year.”

The results have thus far been positive. “We're using all fresh stuff now. Last year, we were using a Tyson
fully cooked product. This year we’re forming our own patties on the grill, with 100 percent fresh ground chuck. I’d
say we’ve got the best burger in town. We’re making our own chili, and cooking chili-cheese fries,” said Murkowski. “We’ve
had good feedback last year with our specials. The goal is to provide a more upscale eating for the students.”

Students are warming up to the changes. Said Robert Koch ’04, “Though I like Commons for the variety, I like
the café for the convenience. This year I’ve noticed that they’ve had a lot more variety. Now you can get
pizza, you can get grinders. They’ve definitely made improvements.” Koch notes that he also eats some meals at his fraternity,
Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Kathryn Wilson ’06 also likes the café. She said, “I feel like the selection is excellent, the quality is just
as good as any restaurant I would go to of comparable price, and I can pick up some candy on
the way out.”

Walker Saik ’06 says that he eats at the café “once or twice a week. It is nice to get
exactly what you want, and that’s what the union offers. They have pizza, grinders, beef, the deli—I think the selection
and quality are very good at the union. They make the meal hot in front of you, in a relatively
timely fashion.” Saik adds though, “Sometimes they get backed up, and it can be annoying to show up at 7:45
p.m. and not get your food by the 8 p.m. meal time [when the meal plan credit expires]. I’d like
to see more prepackaged meals, like bags of bagels or boxes of pop tarts to make it more of a
convenience store, too.”

Responding to the time issue, Terry said, “We're succeeding in getting people served pretty well. If you expect us to
be faster than McDonald's, you’d probably be disappointed. If you went to Chili’s, and you wait for the waiter or
waitress, order drinks, they go back, come take your order, go to the kitchen, and then finally bring your food,
then that would be much longer. Our goal is to do it fast enough, but not sacrifice freshness and variety.”
- Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services

“If we have 1600-plus customers on a weekday, which is fairly typical, about 700 of those come in between 10
a.m. and 3 p.m. During those five of our hours of operation we get 40 to 50 percent of our
customers,” which is significant given that the café is open from breakfast until 3 a.m. The same reasoning applies to
restricting meal plan use to dinner hours. “You cannot use your CatCard at lunch except for bonus bucks. That’s not
to be mean, but we had 224 customers come through between 1 and 2 p.m. one day last week. If
we allowed freshmen to use CatCards at lunch, we would shoot ourselves in the foot. [The lines and the wait]
would be a bad experience for everybody,” Terry said.

Even if quality and selection are improving, there is always a third factor on every customer’s mind—price. Wilson said, “They
are a little high, but I’m willing to pay it to get away from Commons once in a while.” Saik
also agreed the prices are within reason, but added, “The $5 meal plan limit is pretty unreasonable. To say that
I could get a complete meal at the union for $5 is basically a joke.” Koch said, “As far as
prices go, I don’t know. I haven’t paid entirely too much attention, because I’m paying with a card and not
paying with bills and coins and stuff. If I were paying cash, I’d pay a lot more attention to it.
I do remember buying a five-stick pack of gum and it was $0.50, but obviously they can’t price things too
high.”

Regarding prices, Terry said, “Our price increases were very modest, in my mind. Some sandwiches increased by about three percent.
Fountain drinks went up a nickel. We actually lowered some things, like our peanut butter and jelly sandwich that was
tremendously overpriced. The increases were because of inflation, and suppliers are telling us drought conditions nationally are going to have
an impact on produce sales on anything grown or herded, so our food costs are going to rise. Unless something
really major occurs, we anticipate holding prices steady and reevaluating at the end of the year.”Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

holds some changes for the café. Though major changes to the menu or prices are reserved for the summer, Murkowski
said, “In the near future, we want to add more fresh salads and more display cooking. We do specials that
get a great response. We did a noodles bar with four types of pasta, several sauces, different vegetables, garlic and
so on. Next week we'll try deep-sea scallops and shrimp, but will students pay $7.95 or $8.95 for seafood? We’ll
be experimenting with that.”

CatCard payment expansion, spirit bus top SGA agenda

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

On Sept. 12, SGA held their weekly meeting to discuss an assortment of issues affecting the Davidson community. To kick
off the meeting, President Gray Patterson ’03 introduced Keith Nicholson ’04, the soccer player who scored the sole and winning
goal in the Wildcats’ celebrated victory over UNC-Chapel Hill men’s team on Sept. 7.

Sophomore senator Chris Pratt-Dannals reported that Domino’s Pizza, which began accepting CatCard payments for deliveries in the spring, has grossed
more than $800 since the semester began at Davidson. Pratt-Dannals reported that Domino’s is content with the arrangement, and hopes
that more students will utilize this service. Joel’s Sushi, which is located off of Main Street in Davidson, has also
expressed interest in joining Domino’s in this enterprise. Pratt-Dannals also informed SGA that the Union Café has seen a 24
percent increase in sales as compared to the first two weeks of the 2001-02 school year.

An animated debate arose over the issue of buses being chartered for away sports games. SGA’s limited athletics budget forced
careful consideration of the cost of the bus that had planned to travel to the football team’s game at Newberry
on Sept. 21. However, this date coincides with the Union’s main fall event, Lunar Luau, which will replace the cancelled
Fall Frolics. The Lunar Luau will include a foam party to be located in the outdoor amphitheater of the Knobloch
Campus Center. SGA’s concern about affecting attendance at the Lunar Luau, in combination with the upwards of $20 that each
student would have to pay in order to attend the game at Newberry, led to a decision that an interest
email would be sent out to determine actual student interest in the away game. Many on SGA were in favor
of spreading the funds around to other sports’ away games later in the year, as opposed to spending a large
percentage of the budget on a single football game.

Grant Cooper ’04 also spoke to SGA about an upcoming email poll that will be sent by the Honor Council
to Davidson students. The email will examine student feelings about various issues relating to the Honor Code and the Code
of Responsibility. SGA also responded to the school’s commemorative events on Sept. 11, 2002, and discussed ways to improve the
day of remembrance in future years.

Forum, from page 1

you change the expectation? It takes students saying to other students, “You can’t do it.” People take a different attitude
on the weekend—it’s this study hard, play hard mentality.” Vincent Benjamin ’04 and Kate Fiedler ’03 chimed in with Njie’s
complaint about the Code of Responsibility’s lack of publicity. Emphasized Shihab Sugeir ’04, “We need to stress the Code of
Responsibility more, and not just assume we’re going to read a big red book.” The Red Book, or student handbook,
contains in addition to academic regulations and residence life policies the full text of both the Honor Code and Code
of Responsibility. In recent years the Red Book was available to students on the school’s website, but this year’s incoming
class received print copies. One student suggested “refresher” courses for upperclassmen, perhaps in the form of an annual class meeting.

Several people at the forum cited the ambiguity and “secrecy” of sanctions for violators of the Code of Responsibility, expressing
concern about reporting violations if it could put fellow students at risk of expulsion. Shandley dismissed this concern as “rare”
and returned to the perennial red bike example. “With all this vandalism, we had one—one—student turn in another student,” he
said. He continued, “The violator had to pay for the damage and spent significant time helping with the red bike
program, fixing them and picking them up.” This type of violation-appropriate sanction is typical, said Shandley.

Students then raised concerns about the ambiguity of the Code of Responsibility, offering hypothetical situations in which the standard of
“maturity” encouraged in the Red Book is subjective. “It isn’t like the Honor Code in terms of clear bright lines,”
said Vagt. Union Director William Brown both praised the conversation that happened and stressed that it needs to continue in
an effort to iron out these ambiguities. “This isn’t what I expected from tonight,” said Vagt, “but it’s great. I’ve
learned a lot.”
