Libertas, from added Ted Epps’ arguments. Mildner said, “It’s the only very different paper on campus. It is a liberal
paper. If you don’t agree with it, it does not mean you should vote it down.” Though many concerns over
the school’s policy on purchasing computers through ITS remained on the table for future discussions and proposals, SGA President Gray
Patterson ’03 called for a vote on the ATC allocations for Davidson Outdoors, Libertas, and club sports. The allocations passed
with 24 in favor, five in opposition, and three abstaining. When reached for comments after the meeting, other senators remained
concerned about Epps’ antagonistic comments towards Libertas. Sophomore senator Chris Pratt-Dannals commented, “I would hope that Epps was joking when
he made that comment. Libertas contributes to our campus community by fostering legitimate political and social discussion, and I feel
that we were right in giving them the funding they needed for a new computer.”

In an email, Patterson wrote, “I think that Epps was acting within his rights as a senator to question whether
certain groups can get money. However, I have a severe problem with his opinion that just because he doesn’t think
there is a readership, or that [he] and his friends don’t read it, then it isn’t worthwhile. I think that
idea was stressed pretty strongly at the meeting following his remarks. When making changes we cannot venture down a road
where we are deciding priorities by ‘what’s popular,’ but instead by what benefits the campus the most.”

SGA Vice-President Charles Washington ’02 downplayed any significance the debate had in regards to the value of diverse publications on
campus. He said, “While some senators may have expressed some discontent with the publication, I know that a number of
senators, including myself, actually read and enjoy it. The senate majority was only concerned with the dollar allocation that the
Libertas had requested for their computer purchase.”

Lamar Clarkson ’03, editor of Libertas, responded, “Although many of the staff favor liberal politics, Libertas as an organization does
not seek to promote specifically liberal attitudes; we’ll print anything well-reasoned and thought-provoking. The paper is intended as a forum
to incite student discussion of and engagement in both Davidson as a community and the world outside of it.”

Mildner was most vocal in her censure of Epps’ remarks. In an email, she commented that her following opinion was
“a popular one among the senior class and SGA reps.” She wrote: “Kevin Epps’s rationale behind withholding a new computer
from the Libertas was irrational and disgraceful. Kevin was not representing the interests of his fellow classmates, despite the fact
that he is an elected SGA class president, but his intentions were clearly selfish. Kevin allowed his ideological opinions, that
the Libertas is ‘liberal and no one reads it,’ to interfere with his job on SGA. Our student leaders should
understand best that it is a diversity of student organizations and ideas that makes Davidson a great community. It might
be time to reevaluate the standards we expect from our SGA representatives, especially he who presumably earned the trust of
the seniors by being elected class president.”

12/12 - Holiday Centerpieces
12: ALL classes held in the Commons. Faculty, Staff, and Students welcomed. Especially for porsi!

Vigil, from page 1
The remains, however, that the very existence of this vigil (and its remarkable attendance) suggests that there is at least
a dissenting voice in the crowd. The presence of this cry, this plea, seems to be just what is needed
to open a constructive dialogue here on campus. In 1967, America...was increasing its involvement in Vietnam. People were marching in
the streets, protesting American aggression in a foreign conflict that many regarded as one in which the United States should
have no part. Such a mentality was alive on the Davidson campus, as it was throughout the nation. Almost exactly
35 years ago, students of this college were finding ways to deal with and discuss the nation’s role in the
global crisis unfolding around them. They created a program dubbed “Why War?” with the tri-fold purpose of discussing the “necessity
of war,” “concepts of war in general,” and the situations of students not entirely sure of their positions on the
issue. The program was intended to be neutral in its discussions, although it was often accused of being biased towards
pacifism. Davidson students participated in protest marches at the Pentagon. They organized pickets in protest of the draft. They even
created a purpose for peace. The purpose of the vigils was described as “enabling people to make some public forum
of protest against the actions of our government.” A Davidsonian writer wrote in November of 1967, “an issue of such
immediacy has not hit the campus in years. And the campus is reacting with fervor.” Meanwhile, in October 2002, the
vigil candles continue to glow. Spach alludes to the connection between these two separate generations, a bond that remains visible
in the duration of the flames. “This light,” he says, “is a light of wisdom and insight, passed from hand
to hand to hand throughout centuries.” The crowd silently processes into Lingle Chapel and joins in singing John Lennon’s “Imagine.”
The diverse group connects over the familiar melody, not only to one another, but also to Lennon’s generation — one
comparable to ours in its political uncertainty and its communal effort for change. “I hope someday you’ll join me,” Lennon
sings, “and the world will live as one.”

New cafe hours

Dear Davidson College Community,

Since the Café opened, we have been monitoring the hourly customer activity during the late night hours. After a thorough
review, we have found the consumer activity to be very low after 2 a.m. on Wednesday and Thursdays. Therefore, the
operational hours on Wednesdays and Thursdays will change: The Café will now close at 2:00 a.m. effective Wednesday, Oct. 16.
This is all part of our attempt to focus our resources on the Café and to responsibly manage the funds
we receive. As always, we encourage your feedback and ask that you contact me directly at x2076 if you have
questions or concerns regarding this decision.

Sincerely,
Dee Phillips
Director of Dining Services
x2076

12:30 pm - 1 am Mon. & Tues.
8 am - 1 am Wed. & Thurs.
8 am - 2 am Fri.
8 am - 3 am Sat.
11:30 am - 3 am Sun.

DEADLINE: November 15 to apply for George L. Abernethy Endowment Funds

Abernethy Funds are available to students in the following three categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3) Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. FYI:
Last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,500; the average award was about $2,000. Application forms
are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 116). Completed application forms are due back
in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Friday, November 15, 2002. The announcement of awards will occur on or before
January 15, 2003.
