| Editorial

As we embark on the spring semester, it’s hard not to notice the incredible wealth of activities going on all around us in the coming months. We spend so much time wrapped up in academics that we forget how many cultural and entertainment events are accessible to us. Whether your interests lie in art, music, theatre, literature, politics, or athletics, it is clearly an exciting time to be part of Davidson College. Yeah, that sounds like a sales pitch from the admissions office, but this semester, it may actually be true. Consider the following events:

The VAC introduces an art exhibition entitled “McKendree Robbins Long: Picture Painter of the Apocalypse,” now through March 1. Folksinger and poet David Lamotte will perform in the 900 Room on Feb. 2. Broadway comes south next month, in George Gershwin’s “Porgy & Bess” on Feb. 7-8. For the second year, Davidson women participate in three performances of Eve Ensler’s “The Vagina Monologues” on Feb. 9-11. The Royal Shakespeare Company’s two-week educational and performance residency begins Feb. 18, and includes 11 performances of “The Merchant of Venice” in the new 600-seat Duke Family Performance Hall. Taiwan’s top-ranking diplomat in this country, Representative C.J. Chen, will lecture on Thursday, Jan. 24 about “Taiwan and its Relations with the US and Mainland China.” Davidson students get to enjoy great Division I basketball - without long lines or high ticket prices - as the Southern Conference races heat up.

We pay a big price to attend Davidson, but times like this remind us of the high value for our dollar. When we question where our money goes, let’s remember the opportunities that wait for us all over the campus and community. We sometimes forget the opportunities outside the realm of school and our social lives. But this semester, more than any other, our liberal arts educations can be enriched by the vast array of programming available to us. It’s up to us to take advantage.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering

Managing Editors
Tim Cook
Matt Garfield

News Editors
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh
Gavin Weber

Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser

Photography Editors
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Gregg Wallace
Jeff Larrimore

Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR

WHAT HE HEARD. YOUR RIGHT TO INDEPENDENT THOUGHT AND REALITY TO FORM AN OPINION WAS REVOKED

BY WILEY @ NON-SEQUITUR.COM. WWW.NON-SEQUITUR.COM

DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE

Plenty of time for seriousness later

I’m back. That’s right, loyal readers have the joy of reading my articles for another semester. Ok, so most people read the first sentence, get bored or distracted and move on. However, somewhere deep inside, I really hope people read some of my babblings. And, if you’ve made it this far into the article then you deserve a special thank you.

Anyways, I had a hard time finding a topic to discuss this week. The whole campus had a busy weekend with self-selection, but I can’t use that as an excuse. Nor can I turn to a lack of “events” in the world. The seized shipment of Palestinian weapons, another murderous attack in Israel, Osama Bin Laden still on the run, and Bush’s education proposals are all worthy topics. Still, something didn’t quite feel right about each one of them. Who wants to hear me pine about the Middle East again? To the few, if any, who do want more political articles, don’t worry. I will probably publish more sometime in the future, but now is not a time for discussion.

Mike Galdo ‘04

This issue was actually sparked by Davidson’s other publication, Libertas, whose recent cover featured a picture of the lovely new wildcat statue in front of Baker Sports Complex. Seeing that statue grinning at me, its paw outstretched as if it were going to slay a helpless dog, touched me in a way that few things do. Did you know that we now...Have on our campus what is believed to be the world’s largest wildcat statue? That’s right. Take that Arizona and Kentucky. We may share mascots, but darn it, our statue is larger. First of all, who took the time and effort to research wildcat statue sizes when sculpting this addition to our school? That really frightens me. Personally, I can’t help but wonder how long it will be until some industrious art student decides to erect an even larger wildcat in an effort to one-up the administration. Ok, that will never happen since no one besides me really cares about who has the world’s largest wildcat statue. But it still makes me smile to consider the possibility.

To get serious for a moment, the 250,000 dollars spent on the statue could have been put to a better use (like paying for the rest of my tuition, and perhaps a nice graduate school). True, the statue does add something to the Baker Sports Complex, especially once all the construction work is finally done. And, to be honest, the only effect it has on me is a split second of fear every time I see it. But, next time someone donates a large amount of money to construct a giant cat statue, please, please, please let me have a talk with them first.

Of political issues. My topic for - Teaching after 9/11: Much of the bewilderment, anger, and patriotic fervor brought to life in this country since the Sept. 11 attacks seems to be fading away as the American public returns to a mindset fairly similar to the pre-9/11 days. Partisan politics has awakened once again, as legislators continue bantering about tax policies and the Enron bankruptcy. Headlines concerning the “War on Terrorism” remain present, but their importance to the American public has been somewhat eclipsed by other matters. While a return to normalcy is only natural, many people still feel that the terrorist attacks should remain an emphasized topic both in the media and in schools. Some colleges across the country are offering courses focusing entirely on 9/11 and its aftermath, while others debate whether such a topic should be added to the education program. Davidson has yet to offer a course that centers on the terrorist attacks and their aftermath. The question is: Should our school and others across the country offer such courses, or is it more important to concentrate on issues they already teach, including Islamic history, Third World politics, and even national security?

It seems to me that such courses dealing solely with 9/11 and its aftermath could be beneficial for students, but in ways which would not initially appear obvious to many. Perhaps one of the most interesting topics would involve the fluctuations of American opinion and sentiment in each passing day of the post-9/11 world. Now that the public has returned to a state of normalcy, what can be learned from these last few months? Was all our talk of a unified and proud America for real? Or was it simply a fad that took the American public by storm? Was our eagerness to fly American flags outside our car windows, don FDNY shirts, or to sing “God Bless America” really representative of our budding patriotism, or were we simply caught up in a wave of patriotism?

The media and the public were willing to compare the terrorist attacks to the surprise bombing of Pearl Harbor. But after Pearl Harbor, the country had to back up its new sentiments by sending thousands and thousands of soldiers into a deadly war. So far, we have lost a paucity of soldiers in our “War of Terrorism.” To me, courses concerning the post-9/11 world would only help teach Americans about their own fickleness. Perhaps we should wait a while before offering these courses in order to gain some perspective on exactly where things stand. Eventually, we will begin to understand exactly how 9/11 truly affected our lives and our American identities, and hopefully our colleges will pioneer the process.