www.davidson.edu

No. 13 Davidson vs. No. 4 Ohio State —
Thursday, 3:10 p.m. EST, CBS

POINT GUARDS

Michael Bree (6-0 / 175) vs. Brent Darby (6-1 / 195)

After missing parts of the last four games with injuries, it’s critical for Bree to stay healthy. He’s been cold
from the field lately, but his passing abilities are clearly tops on the team. Darby is as much a scorer
and penetrator as he is a passer, averaging 13 points per game, second on his team.

SHOOTING GUARDS

Wayne Bernard (6-3 / 180) vs. Brian Brown (6-4 / 200)

This is a critical match-up at both ends. Bernard is the most athletic, electric player on the team, and the
Wildcats will need him to score in double digits, as well as defend top scorer Brown, who averages 15 ppg.
Bernard and Brown are probably the quickest players on their respective teams.

CENTERS

Martin Ides (7-2 / 280) vs. Velimir Radinovic (7-0 / 230)

Both teams feature European seven-footers, but while Radinovic is mostly a big-body role player, Ides is a focal point of
the Davidson offense. He’ll need to establish an early inside presence to open up the perimeter game for the guards.

FORWARDS

Chris Pearson (6-9 / 230) vs. Zach Williams (6-7 / 230)

Pearson has a two-inch height advantage over Williams, and he’ll need to use it to earn his eighth double-double of
the season. Each player leads his team in rebounding, so this should be quite a physical match-up.

FORWARDS

Emeka Erege (6-5 / 215) vs. Boban Savovic (6-5 / 240)

Erege is called “the glue that holds the team together.” He is arguably the most talented player on the roster,
but he’s also the most often injured. Savovic is a dangerous shooter, averaging 12 points per game and 40 percent
from three-point range. Erege will need to stay healthy.

www.ohio-state.edu

DAVIDSON VILLAGE INN

Yes, we are the preferred place to stay for Davidson Parents & Alumni, but there’s something we must confess:

We’re cat lovers!
Go Cats!

Wildcats will face Ohio St. on Thursday afternoon

NCAAs, from page 1

“We’ve been there before,” he said. “I really believe familiarity in a situation like this is a factor. I think
it can dispel some of the anxiety that accompanies an NCAA Tournament game. Having played there before, two games and
a couple of practices, makes it somewhat of a comfortable environment for us.”

As for the opponent, McKillop described Ohio State as “physical, aggressive and very well-coached.”

The Buckeyes (23-7), coached for the past five seasons by Jim O’Brien, are the surprise team of the Big 10.
After losing in the first round of last year’s tournament as a No. 5 seed to No. 12 Utah State,
the Buckeyes were predicted this season to finish near the bottom of the Big 10. But Ohio State won its
first Big 10 championship on Sunday with an 81-64 victory over Iowa, and enters the postseason with a four-game winning
streak and a No. 14 ranking by the Associated Press.

After watching film of Ohio State on Sunday night, assistant coach Jim Fox expects Thursday’s game to be a war.
“They’re very physical,” said assistant coach Jim Fox. “They play tough, hard-nosed, beat-you-up defense. It’s going to be a very
tough, physical game.”

So what are the chances for a stunning Davidson upset? Here’s a look at a few factors:

Health is always a concern for the Wildcats. Rarely has the team had its full roster available, thanks to numerous
injuries and suspensions. Emeka Erege (leg) and Michael Bree (bruised thigh) missed parts of the Southern Conference tournament, while Peter
Anderer earned Most Outstanding Player honors despite bruising his leg in Friday’s quarterfinals. However, Fox said everyone should be available
on Thursday. “For the first time in a long time, we should all be ready to go,” he said.

Davidson leads the all-time series with Ohio State 3-2, with regular season victories in 1963, 1964 and 1974. However, the
Buckeyes have won the last two meetings, including a 64-57 win in 1976. Davidson hasn’t won an NCAA Tournament game
since 1969, while Ohio State reached the Final Four in 1999. During a season that included stunning road wins over
North Carolina and Penn, Erege says this team might be ready for at least one more upset. “I think everybody
feels this is a game we can win,” he said. Added Fox: “I think our guys are pretty confident going
in. We’re all excited to get out there.”

GOOD VS. BAD

Good news for Davidson fans:

The Wildcats are 3-2 all-time against Ohio State.

Bad news for Davidson fans:

Ohio State has won the last two meetings, in 1975 and 1976. The teams have never met in the postseason.

Good news:

Coaches expect the full roster to be available, marking only the second injury- and suspension-free game this season.

Bad news:

The Buckeyes are also expected to be fully healthy.

Good news:

Both Kent State and Indiana State pulled off big upsets as No. 13 seeds.

Bad news:

The 13 seed has only a 20% winning percentage (17-68) in the NCAA Tournament.

Good news:

Ohio State lost as a fifth seed in the first round of last year’s tournament.
