Key West was a highlighted feature of the tour. Just as their Concert Choir counterparts, students in the Jazz Ensemble
and Orchestra took advantage of scheduled time for recreation. Memorable events of the Key West stop included snorkeling in the
Atlantic just south of the island, and a run-in with “The Great Rondini,” a self-styled escape artist/street performer who requested
that orchestra members tie him up and hang him from a rope. Orchestra and Jazz Band members also had the
opportunity to have fun in Busch Gardens, Tampa.

SPRING BREAK 2002
Join Student Travel Services, Earn Cash or Free Trips.
On Campus Contact
Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas, or Florida.
America's #1 Student Tour Operator.
Promote Trips at Davidson College
Mann Travel & Cruises (704) 892-9020
Information/Reservations: 1-800-648-4849
Or www.ststravel.com

Members of the Concert Choir take a break from a busy singing schedule to gather for a picture on a
tour stop in Dallas, Texas.

Rob Neuman ’04, the Orchestra’s manager, was pleased with the outcome of the tour, describing it as “a great time,
and a great source of publicity for the college.” Tales of excitement told by those who toured this winter have
filtered back to those who chose to stay at home. “Sounds like fun, man,” commented Hak Shin Park ’04, who
spent his winter in Michigan, “All I did over break was crash my car.”

Members of the Choir, Orchestra, and Jazz Band returned to Davidson early in the morning of Saturday, January 12. Many
welcomed the two-day weekend before the start of class as an opportunity to relax after an enjoyable yet tiring winter
tour.

The Chamber Singers perform a concert at the St. Louis Cathedral in New Orleans.

Alum endows new international studies position
COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS Press Release

Davidson alumnus John F. McGee of Charleston, W.Va., has made a gift to his alma mater to endow a unique
position for international studies at the college. The donation, made through the John F. and Ruth B. McGee Foundation, will
support a person with international expertise who holds the joint title of McGee Professor and Director of the Dean Rusk
Program in International Studies. The holder of those titles will provide, in the benefactor’s words, “a concentrated direction and cohesive
force toward learning opportunities for students in international matters as well as travel.”

The college is currently conducting a national search to fill the position. In addition to teaching, the McGee Professor will
direct all programs relating to international studies. The Dean Rusk Program was inaugurated in 1985 in honor of former U.S.
Secretary of State Dean Rusk, a 1931 Davidson graduate. The program functions to improve understanding of international issues at the
college and in the community. The program also sponsors lectures on campus by prominent people involved in international affairs, and
campus events that focus on international awareness.

In response to the McGee Foundation’s announcement, Davidson College President Robert F. Vagt said, “The creation of the program 16
years ago acknowledged that Davidson recognizes the importance of international awareness, and current events have reinforced that our future depends
on achieving an understanding of other people and their cultures. The gift from John McGee and his wife Ruth perpetuates
a position at Davidson devoted to that goal.”

Self-Selection starts spring social schedule
By AMANDA PENNOCK Staff Writer

Around 5:30 on Friday morning, nearly every student on Davidson’s campus was awakened by the raucous hollering and banging of
pots and pans that accompany what marks the freshman women’s official debut as members of Patterson Court — Self-Selection 2002.
Earlier in the week, each freshman woman who wished to self-select ranked eating houses.In order of choice, many freshmen "clustered"
with up to three friends to ensure that they would be placed in a house together. The self-selection forms were
then processed by a lottery system. When all was said and done, Rusk, Warner Hall, and Conner each added 44
freshwomen to their ranks; Turner gained 35; and CoHo added 30 women and 10 men. A complete listing of the
names of each house’s new members can be found on the Patterson Court web page.

Every eating house formed a coalition of returning members to wake the new members for breakfast in the wee hours
of Friday morning. The racket led to retaliation on behalf of some of the men’s halls; previously prepared water balloons
and water guns, among other semi-harmless weapons, were employed against the parading groups of inductees. Breakfast with each house included
many introductions, much yawning, food, and even dancing at some houses.

After being forced to return to the academic events of any normal Friday on campus, new members eagerly anticipated the
social events that would take place at the houses that night. The houses all had closed parties until 10 p.m.,
at which point Turner and Warner Hall opened their doors to the Court. At each house, new members got down
and dirty: current members showered them with everything from ketchup to glitter to chocolate sauce to shaving cream. Afterwards, dancing,
music, and even karaoke livened up the scene at each house.

For the rest of the weekend, houses continued to welcome their new members with various meals, "sisterhood" get-togethers, at least
one group outing to the Saturday night men’s basketball game, and information sessions.

McGee Visiting Professorship brings to campus each spring distinctive writers such as Peter Meinke, Robert Morgan, and Sherri Reynolds. South
Carolina novelist Josephine Humphreys will hold the title during the coming spring semester 2002.

A 1943 Davidson College graduate, McGee is a lifelong supporter of the college. Foremost among his previous gifts was a
donation in 1989 to endow a professorship in writing. He has since served as president and associate publisher of the
State-Record Newspapers, president of Clay Communications, Inc., and publisher of the Charleston Daily Mail, director of Thomson Newspapers in Toronto,
Canada, and the Raleigh News and Observer, and also a director of the Associated Press in New York. He has
also lectured through the efforts of the State Department, in Namibia, Botswana, and Zimbabwe as well as at the University
of Nairobi’s Graduate School of Journalism.

John and his wife Ruth reside in Charleston, WV. He has been involved in his community as president of the
West Virginia Press Association and as a member of the advisory board for West Virginia University’s School of Journalism. He
is also active in many local organizations promoting community development in the arts.

McGee was a political science major at Davidson, president of the Eumenean Literary Society, an ROTC cadet captain, and a
member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity. From 1943-45, McGee served as a Captain in the U.S. Army, landing in Normandy in
the early days of the war, and was decorated with two Purple Hearts and three Bronze Stars, among several other
recognitions. His forty-year career in newspaper publication began in his native Charleston, S.C., with the Evening Post Publishing Company.

Did you know that Griffin Brothers Tire Sales has the most advanced diagnostic equipment and superior customer service? Trust Griffin
Brothers with all your automotive needs including major engine work, scheduled maintenance, and computer diagnostics.

Griffin Brothers Tire Sales, Inc.
Lake Norman: 704.896.8473
19141 W. Catawba Ave.
Mooresville: 704.662.0049
278 W. Plaza Dr. (Hwy. 150)
