VOLUME 94, NUMBER 11

Over 50 students gathered in Richardson Stadium on Sunday to show their support for a possible Dave Matthews concert in the spring. The school has entered a bid to bring Matthews to Belk Arena.

Davidson and Dave: The best of what’s around?

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

From Counting Crows and Indigo Girls to Ludacris and John Mayer, Davidson has lured some of the biggest acts in music to Belk Arena over the past two years.

Now efforts are underway to land what would likely be the biggest catch in school history.

Dave Matthews is planning a solo 12-show college tour on the East Coast next spring, and Davidson is among more than 300 schools vying for a performance between March 19 and April 6.

The school has made a “competitive” offer, and expects to hear from Matthews within a month, said Lee Ann Bannerman, Assistant Director of Union Programs.

“I think we have a real good shot,” she said. “We have a lot of things working for us. The offer we’re making is a very good offer. The way we’ve structured it shows him it’s not about us making money... We want to bring him to the school because it’s what our students want.”

Bannerman said Davidson has earned a good reputation among concert promoters because of its experienced staff, which she expects will play a role in Matthews’s decision.

One of those promoters, Mike Jones of More Music in Virginia Beach, Va., helped to bring Ludacris and Mayer to Belk Arena in May and September, respectively.

Not only is Jones fond of Davidson, but he’s also close to Matthews’s manager, said Union Board President Kate Fiedler.

“They are great friends and have a long history together, so that’s a pretty big connection. (Jones) called us and said ‘I want you to put in a bid.’ He’s real excited about Davidson and the program we have.”

Bannerman and Fiedler declined to name the exact offer, but according to two Internet message boards, most bids run around $150,000.

Fiedler expects ticket prices to be $39 for students and $49 for general admission in the 4,500-seat venue.

“Our agent said ours is one of the smartest offers he’s seen,” said Fiedler.

Matthews played at area schools like College of Charleston and Wake Forest on his most recent solo tour in 1999. Just as he did then, Matthews may bring a guest musician such as guitarist Tim Reynolds, but his band will not be part of this tour.

And this time, he hasn’t ruled out playing at smaller colleges like Davidson.

“What their management told us was he’d entertain every offer, any venue, any size,” Bannerman said. “There were no parameters about being a certain size school. It was just ‘make your best offer and he’ll take a look at it.’ That’s very rare for this type of artist.”

Students have always singled out Matthews on Union Board concert surveys, said Fiedler.

“Dave has been one of those dream artists. He’s been one of the No. 1 folks that people want to see,” she said.

And Bannerman said this is a golden opportunity for the College to bring another big-name act to campus.

“We have tried to help Davidson students think they’re not missing out by going to a smaller school,” she said. “We want you guys to feel fortunate about being at Davidson for more than just academics. And it’s good exposure, especially when you think about kids who are looking at Davidson.

But that’s secondary. The first thing is that we want students to be excited about being here.”

Rock On: Sophomores swept Battle of the Bands, a Union Board event held last Saturday night at 10 in the Union Atrium. Phil Sasser, Hans Larson, and Ashley Brown earned first place and $250 with their bluegrass-edge group “No Name Band #2.” Joe Zimmerman, Jimmy Newlin, Travis Lloyd, and Andy Heston earned second place and $100 in “Joe Zimmerman and the Soccer Moms.” The audience decided the winners.

Above (l to r): Phil Sasser and friend; Luke O'Hara w/ “Magical Realists” (formerly known as “German Philosophers”); Durham Barnes.

Students hope to charter historically black fraternity

By Caroline K. Hauser
News Editor

Another chapter in the long and varied history of Greek life at Davidson College is unfolding this week. In hopes of bringing a historically black fraternity to campus, two national organizations accepted invitations to visit with students and present their programs.

Representatives from Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. met with students last night, and Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. will give a presentation tonight at 8 p.m. in the West Hall Conference Room.

According to Ernest Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Student Life, “Black fraternities are something that’s engrained in the African-American culture. We have a lot of students on campus with those connections. We do get asked when some African-American males are looking at Davidson if we have black fraternities. They have those expectations.”

The idea of bringing a historically black fraternity to campus goes back to 1991, when a group of men approached the college with the idea. In 1993, Alpha Phi Alpha granted Davidson a charter, but the chapter did not materialize. Resultantly, the charter was revoked.

In 1996, as it was preparing for re-accreditation, Davidson conducted a self-study. Among the study’s recommendations was that historically black fraternities be added to aid in the social and educational experience of black students.

Over the past few years, says Jeffries, “a few fledgling pushes were made, but students just didn’t have the numbers.”

However, last spring, 16 males sent Tom Shandley, Dean of Students, a petition request-

see Frats, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Memory of Water debuts tonight, p5

News 1-4
SGA considers smoke-free dorms. Page 3.

Arts & Living 5-6
Harry Potter reviewed. Page 5.

Perspectives 7-8
Columnists discuss Cornel West’s appearance this week. Page 8.

Sports 9-12
Volleyball tournament preview. Page 11.