Howard, Crowe, and Connelly perform Beautifully
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

First, a brief discussion of movies “based on actual events.” There is the idea that films based on real events
are inherently better than those that are born of someone’s imagination. Is *A Beautiful Mind* better because it’s based on
the life of John Nash? Would *A Beautiful Mind* be less of a film if John Nash had never lived
and existed only in the world created by Akiva Goldsman’s screenplay? I doubt many would call it a lesser movie,
but it might be considered “less valid” than, say, *Black Hawk Down*, “based on a true story.” Anyone who goes
to the movies expecting to learn about a person’s life should drive to the library instead. Even the most “truthful”
and “faithful” cinematic adaptations of reality are just as fictitious and imagined as *Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone*. Except
for maybe documentary filmmaking — but even that genre is suspect thanks to editing — film can never depict an
event in the way it really happened. *A Beautiful Mind* is fiction, and while its story may be based on
“truth,” it cannot and does not provide an idea of who the real John Nash is. In respect to depicting
John Nash’s life, *A Beautiful Mind* is just as clueless (or accurate) as *Clueless* is to its subject.

The Coen Brothers capitalized on our affinity for “true stories” with *Fargo*, claiming that it was “based on true events”;
it wasn’t, but people saw the movie. Woody Allen, though, is responsible for probably the best exploitation of “true stories”
and their popularity. His *Sweet and Lowdown* tells the story of legendary jazz guitarist Emmet Ray (Sean Penn in his
Oscar-nominated performance). Allen separates the re-enacted events of Ray’s life with interviews with jazz enthusiasts, musicians, and historians, including Allen
himself. The only thing is, Emmet Ray never lived. And if we’ll continue with this idea, *Sweet and Lowdown* remains
as truthful and fabricated as anything “based on a true story.”

But back to *A Beautiful Mind*. It’s one of the best mainstream films released in 2001. Along with *Black Hawk
Down* and *Harry Potter*, *A Beautiful Mind* is accessible to all audiences and it doesn’t waste the time of those
who demand a little more than good fun. This film is one of Ron Howard’s best, right up there with
*Apollo 13*. With the guidance of Goldsman’s screenplay and Russell Crowe’s performance, Howard builds a world around a schizophrenic that
is upon first viewing believable and, later, clearly fabricated. His direction walks a fine line between absurdity and ignorance. We
follow the story as it is told to us; we are happy, ignorant moviegoers until Nash’s schizophrenia slaps his wife
Alicia (Jennifer Connelly) and us in the face.

The film begins while Nash is a student at Princeton. He discovers his one great idea, which later earns him
the Nobel Prize, and enjoys the life of a genius: few responsibilities, a class to teach here and there, and
way too much time on his hands to think. Some of the film’s best moments show John using his logical
thought while hitting on women. His pick-up line, to which we nervously listen on more than one occasion, is probably
the most honest of any I’ve heard. Eventually, he meets Alicia, his pick-up line is well received, they marry, and
have a child. I’m leaving out the details of Nash’s illness: one of the pleasures of *A Beautiful Mind* is
the way it reveals what exists in and/or outside John’s mind. I appreciate the fact that his illness is not
portrayed as being curable or not. Rather, it is a problem that must be solved, worked out. At one point,
Nash explains to his psychiatrist that he can take care of himself; he is a mathematician, a problem solver, and
he can solve his own problems.

I have so far offered only praise for *A Beautiful Mind*. I recognize the validity of the accolades that the
film and its actors are receiving: Best Actor at...This, Best Supporting Actress at That, Film of the Year nominee by
This Cities Critics Circle, and soon. Also, few reviews have taken the time to recognize Ed Harris, who is, as
always, the center of attention when he walks on screen. However — and it’s a relatively big “however” — despite
my admiration for the film and lack of criticism, I never really connected with A Beautiful Mind. What Ron Howard,
Akiva Goldsman, and the actors have produced is first-rate. There’s nothing I can point out as being “bad” or “wrong.”
I just don’t recommend the film as wildly and enthusiastically as many others have. I do have a complaint, but
it’s not a criticism. I was interested in Alicia’s story more than John’s. We’ve all seen genius and mental illness
in films before, but never have I seen a film that focuses on the Alicia Nashes of the world. Imagine
the pain and near-betrayal Alicia must feel when she learns that her husband has been schizophrenic for years. I want
a film about Alicia, not about John. But again, this is not a criticism of A Beautiful Mind, just an
idea.

The Royal Tenenbaums: Humorless need not apply
By Katy Elwell
Staff Writer

The Royal Tenenbaums is an answered prayer for fans of the cult-comedy Rushmore. Wes Anderson and Luke Wilson deliver another
film in the dry, quirky style expected by their already-hooked fans. Although Rushmore wasn’t much of a success, especially outside
the small circle of its fanatical following, The Royal Tenenbaums’ addition of big names like Gwyneth Paltrow, Gene Hackman, Anjelica
Huston, Danny Glover, Bill Murray, Alec Baldwin, and the promised hilarity of Ben Stiller, will give the Rushmore Anderson/Wilson team
exposure to a larger segment of the population. Judging by the laughs in the theaters, I think people liked what
they saw.

The Royal Tenenbaums is the story of a dysfunctional family of childhood geniuses, who reached their peaks before they hit
puberty. Alec Baldwin acts as narrator, a fairly small role, as the audience learns about the characters from seeing them
interact with each other, and Baldwin just serves to fill in some essential background. However, his deadpan delivery of the
humorous family history serves up quite a few laughs. The Royal Tenenbaums shapes up as an enjoyable, slightly dark comedy,
but still leaves room for interpretation by the audience.

The majority of the cast wears the same outfits for the entire movie, most notably, though, is Ben Stiller’s ensemble
as Chas Tenenbaum, bright red Adidas wind-suits, which he also makes his two sons wear at all times, until the
last scene when only the color of the wind-suits changes. Luke Wilson outdoes himself as Richie Tenenbaum, a has-been tennis
prodigy, who is rarely seen without a tennis sweatband around his head, although he apparently hasn’t picked up a racket
in 20 years. Gwyneth Paltrow plays Margot Tenenbaum, who wears essentially the same striped polo dress and plastic barrette in
every scene, sometimes with the addition of a coat nearly identical to Wilson’s. Gene Hackman is hilarious as Royal Tenenbaum,
the lovable, yet misguided father.

Like Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums has a great soundtrack featuring a lot of well-loved classic rock that fits with the
moods of the movie. It boasts tracks by Paul Simon, The Clash, The Velvet Underground, Bob Dylan, The Beatles, and
The Rolling Stones and an unexpected Charlie Brown Theme. The actors work well with each other, and are brilliant at
playing off one another in the funniest way possible. Stiller and Wilson have especially great chemistry together: Stiller’s character is
more apt to speak loudly, jump to conclusions, and act rashly, while Wilson is quieter, more introspective, reserved, and not
afraid to show his emotions, especially to Stiller, who can’t handle them. The two opposite ends of the personality spectrum
in the two Tenenbaum brothers clash loudly, and the results get well-deserved laughter.

Regardless of previous exposure to Director Wes Anderson, or affinity for Ben Stiller, The Royal Tenenbaums has something for everyone
to enjoy. Except people with no sense of humor.
