Davidson’s senior funny man is Fully Committed
By KATE FIEDLER
Staff Writer

Creating distinctive voices for forty characters: impressive. Keeping forty characters straight in quick succession: very impressive. Watching Marty Benson work the crowd and a witty script: priceless. Anyone who missed Marty Benson’s one-man show, Fully Committed by Becky Mode, last week lost the opportunity to see one of Davidson’s funniest in his element. The senior theater major brought the house down with a stellar performance in all three shows.

Looking down from the tech box, Kristin Nickel was impressed by the crowds that the show drew. “Probably 300 or so people came out, and I think that’s a tribute to Marty. If he hadn’t been the one performing, I don’t think as many would have supported the show,” said the show’s light board operator.

Ryan Hastings enjoyed the performance so much, he saw the production twice. “I went back for Bryce, my favorite character. I loved the show and the freedom Marty took with it.” Benson catered each performance to the specific audience before him, adding in lines to include professors in attendance or immediately responding to someone’s peculiar reaction to a line. He addressed the audience directly and broke the fourth wall in several instances. Although his added commentary was not professional, it was classic Benson behavior, capitalizing on an opportunity to draw people in and make them laugh.

Even when he confused his voices, Benson was able to save himself through laughs by blaming his slip-up on the sudden development of dyslexia or a bad connection. At one point during Friday evening’s performance, it was difficult for Benson to regain his character, but the audience forgave his brief lapse and just laughed it off. He was able to recover his mistakes with humor and wit on the spot as if it were a part of the performance. I found this most impressive while he faced an expectant audience.

Benson began and ended the play as Sam Peliczowski, an aspiring actor working the reservation phones for an upscale restaurant. Mode’s script provided over forty funny characters who called in for Sam throughout the show, and Benson crafted a voice and persona for each one. He carried on the constant phone conversations as if it was natural for him to create different personalities and converse with himself. His mannerisms, posture, and speech changed vividly with each new caller, yet Benson was able to keep Sam consistent and believable.

Sean Gantt was impressed by Benson’s sharp character changes. “It was the most complicated one-man show I’ve ever seen. For the amount of characters he was playing; it was amazing,” he commented later. After hours of rehearsals and working all three performances, Nickel was also amazed by Benson’s abilities. She said, “Marty has an incredible ability to characterize. If you just heard the show, you’d think ten people were in the production. The show had so much energy.”

The production aspects of the show were overshadowed by Benson’s hilarious performance, but they served their purpose. The set was a basic bar with a phone and a few props, allowing Benson’s talent to shine through without distraction.Only the props necessary to realistically complete the conversations. There were few light cues, but the sound effects of a phone ringing or the line hanging up were numerous and well executed. Benson tried to play with the tech crew during his Friday evening performance, but they responded with multiple phone rings and intercom buzzes. He quickly backed off, explaining to the audience that the techies were the wrong people to mess with since they held the power to make him look silly. These spontaneous comments illustrated the fun interaction Benson had with his audience and the crew. The directing job was effective; Benson stuck with the clever script before him but also added in some of his own humor to make the show his. After almost four years of making us laugh and shake our heads, Benson completed his official Davidson theatrics with a comic success.

Reflects on this weekend’s dance concert first time will be a lasting memory. Downstairs, I saw the excitement and the nerves in the new dressing rooms firsthand as we donned our costumes and sprayed our hair into place. Dancers graced the new below-stage space, stretching on the stairs and against the railings, and soon, the pitter-patter of feet and the hum of music echoed from our haven below the grand auditorium. You see, what you miss from out in the audience is the giggling downstairs, the months of hard preparation, the last-minute rehearsals, the bruised toes and sprained ankles, and even the tears. Without these images, the show is still complete, triumphant—a culmination of clear hard work and dedication by a growing group of students committed to the art of dance at Davidson. But, as I stood watching Julia Philpott’s modern dance from the wings, I also witnessed a senior girl wiping her eyes, brimming with tears, as she moved onto the stage, and I have our heroes, the villains, the jokester, and that one character with which we can identify. Aditi (Vasundhara Das) is the bride-to-be. She is a “modern” woman. In other words, she has had relationships with men, and as far as we can tell, she chooses to have an arranged marriage. Her best friend is her cousin Ria (Shefali Shetty). While the focus of the movie is the wedding, it is the relationship between Shetty’s character and Aditi’s father (Naseeruddin Shah) that anchors the movie. Shah is wonderful as the father of the bride: with just his eyes he is able to express pain and pure joy. I have not even mentioned the style of the film. Nair saturates the screen with bright oranges and blues, lively music, and chattering characters that, by the end of the film, develop into real people. When so many films sleepwalk through formulas, Monsoon Wedding runs through tired plots with so much color and heart that the familiar becomes fresh. Monsoon Wedding is now playing at the Manor in Charlotte.

In other realized the quiet joy in Friday and Saturday night. We may not think of joy in tears, but for seniors, for those who have seen the dance ensemble grow from ten members to ninety-five members, for those who first danced in the old 900 room, then in Hodson Hall, and finally in the new Duke Hall, tears just seemed appropriate. And intermingled with the tears offstage, I heard laughter, I saw smiles, and I was convinced that our performances Friday and Saturday night were not about getting every step right or about hitting every position, but simply about loving what we’re doing, about sharing a gift that we have, dancing for an audience, but also for ourselves. It may sound cheesy, but we’re all so busy here, I believe we rarely stop to find the beauty in everyday life, in the ability to move, the ability to dance, to be free. More than anything, I think Friday and Saturday night, the actual performances and the attendance at the shows, confirmed for me that the Davidson community is interested in something greater than perfection and poise. The success of the Davidson Dance Ensemble is a success of the entire community, a dream that started small and has grown into beauty itself. We couldn’t have done our performances this weekend without an audience, so to all those who attended, thank you. Also, thank you to our crew, cast, and advisors, and most of all, seniors, you will be missed.

PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX
THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, E.N.A.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURN
987-2288
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE
SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LAB

Continuing our policy of offering Davidson students, faculty and employees a 20% discount on eyewear and special prices on eye exams.

CORNELIUS NEAR