LIFE IS SHORT

Steve:

Throughout my life, I have lost some of my closest friends; car accidents, suicide, and drug overdoses mainly. The emotional
impact from each has been immense. In light of such losses, I have learned that life is definitely short and
unpredictable.

Ironically and sadly, it can often be those that we love the most and believe should die last, that die
first. So life is short, but how does that change my perception of life?

Well, I think that a life well lived (with regard to the physical, psychological, and emotional), is a thrilling life
full of surprise, excitement, and adventure. If there is anything in life of which we are certain, it is the
present, so make it a fabulous one.

Love every day you live by doing something every day that you love. Quench your passion and desires and never
cease being passionate, for with passion we can accomplish virtually anything. If you have a longing desire to do something,
do it. If it is something spectacularly challenging, by all means, take the challenge, because if you haven’t tried you
haven’t lived.

I am by no means encouraging you to ignore the future. Rather, I want to encourage you to enjoy and
love the path you take in preparing for a future steeped with prosperity. All in all, I am merely suggesting
that sometimes, it is too great a risk to delay a thrilling life full of ecstasy for a future that
is unknown.

Jenn:

Life is indeed short. Considering the average life span is about 78 years old for women, I’m a quarter of
the way through with my life. Amazing, isn’t it? Consider this: if my parents live to be 80, I only
have 25 more years with them. Marrying the love of my life in three years only leaves me 50 years
with him if we are lucky.

Granted, that outlook seems very pessimistic at first glance; however, it makes one very appreciative of the time we have
now with those people we love. It is a happy compromise between living life day to day because of the
notion that today may be your last, and constantly planning for a future we are not guaranteed.

How can you secure a future for yourself if you are living in the present, and how can you enjoy
the fruits of your labor if you aren’t around to celebrate them? It seems like a lose-lose situation, so we
must settle for the lesser of two evils: planning like you’ll live until 80, but appreciate those people in your
life like tomorrow will never come.

Realize that love is not in vain. They who love beyond the world cannot be separated by it. Death cannot
kill what never dies.

Lauren:

Since I don’t have a crystal ball foretelling the day I’m going to die, then I try to live as
if I am going to be alive for a long time. I try to adopt a healthy lifestyle and plan
for the future, so I can enjoy life later. However, I sometimes find that I am overly future-oriented, which can
be detrimental.

I think it is best to find a balance in living life to the fullest and preparing for the future.
Then if I die tomorrow, I will be glad that I did the best I could with the time I
was given and would hopefully not have any regrets (though I might wish I had not passed up the ice
cream the night before).

Felicia:

I will be the first one to tell you, “Life is Short,” but if you ask me if I live
my life like it is—I will tell you “No” because I do not. At this point in my life, I
am so focused on Davidson, graduate school, my future career, etc. that I do not have time to put things
into proper perspective.

In high school, I was worse—I popped caffeine pills daily, and had “emotional breakdowns” almost as often (might have been
why I was voted “Most Stressed Out”), so I am pleased that I have made a little progress by realizing
academics are not worth jeopardizing my health. At least, I have recognized I do have a problem—I guess my next
step is doing something about it.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on WALT 1610 AM. This week’s
topic is “Life is Short.”

Brickhouse, from page 5

The cake was super-decadent, thick and rich with a wonderful sundae sauce drizzled over the top. This option is definitely
for major chocolate lovers only; the four of us had a hard time finishing off every last bite. The apple
pie, a lighter option, was covered in cinnamon and was also a good choice.

Overall, the Brickhouse Tavern is a very welcome addition to the Davidson community, and a great improvement over the Depot
in atmosphere and quality of food. Judging from the packed tables that Friday night, it should be around for a
while.

Breakfast

The Soda Shop

Since 1951

Burritos

Omelets

Pancakes

Eat-in Take-out

PREPARING LEADERS WITH A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE

INTERESTED IN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS? INTERESTED IN A DYNAMIC INTELLECTUAL COMMUNITY? INTERESTED IN MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN THE WORLD?

THE FLETCHER SCHOOL OF LAW AND DIPLOMACY IS THE OLDEST EXCLUSIVELY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS IN THE UNITED STATES.

MASTERS AND DOCTORAL DEGREES OFFERED IN TWENTY FIELDS

MULTIDISCIPLINARY AND FLEXIBLE ACADEMIC PROGRAM

JOINT DEGREE AND EXCHANGE PROGRAMS

THE FLETCHER SCHOOL | TUFTS UNIVERSITY MEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS, USA 02155 WWW.FLETCHER.TUFTS.EDU
