By Ros Hemprick | Staff Writer

This weekend, Davidson students continued to examine the school’s oft-criticized concept of diversity by taking part in a group discussion on the controversial subject of intercultural dating. The meeting took place at the BSC house on Sunday evening and featured Davidson graduate Allen Lee '01 as the group facilitator. Lee, who has previously led other discussions at the BSC, conducted the discussion by posing a set of questions first to the women in the group and then to the men. The questions dealt with issues such as whether or not group members were opposed to the idea of intercultural dating in general, and whether they would personally choose to have an intercultural relationship.

A proud Davidson student will be among the participants at the Americas in Fort Benning, GA, this weekend. For more information, please see James Baldwin scholar Manze Wala, Aten rotor Acs Aerie Ste, who will be showing a short film and speaking on Wednesday, November 20 at 4 p.m. in the Sloan Music Building, Room 100. The film is “James.”

RLO, from page 1

Senators argued that having a lottery night for seniors, similar to lottery night for regular dorms, would be a simpler and more satisfying way for rising seniors to pick their Martin Court apartment. Although this would be more work for RLO staff, and the benefits might not in reality be better for the majority of students, the perceived benefit would be that students would be at least partly responsible for their own choice of housing in the coming year. Marsicano and Urban asked if the problems the student body had with the Martin Court lottery system arose more from a lack of trust in the RLO staff than the lack of perceived “fairness” in the system. Senators answered back that it is RLO’s job to work for the students and that the extra work that might be involved in having a lottery night for Martin Court should be done to satisfy students, even if the actual benefits of having a “pure” lottery are not quantifiably better.

At last week’s meeting, Francis shared an email that she had received from Marsicano earlier that day. Marsicano wrote, “After last week’s conversations, we [RLO] are trying to take very seriously the point that some students would prefer a lottery more nearly like the upper-class residence hall lottery, even though that would not increase their chances of getting one of their choices as an apartment.” In response to SGA senators’ discussions both at the meeting and afterward, Marsicano and other staff members in RLO have begun to determine the ways that the regular housing lottery and the Martin Court lottery would be alike or different should a “pure” lottery be implemented. Marsicano explains that after these preliminary plans are made, RLO “will make this information available for students to give us their feedback. [They] plan to start with the SGA representatives who are currently juniors since that class is the one most directly affected by RLO’s decision.” Francis explained, “Since there has been so much discussion about this issue, we want to ensure that students have a clear understanding of the process and can provide their input.”which cultural differences would be the hardest to overcome. Lee defined “culture” as not merely terms of race, but also religion, class, ethnicity, and political views. The crowd was unanimous in its support of intercultural relationships, but there was some disunity in its consensus on whether or not each of them would personally pursue such a relationship. Group members cited religious and political differences as the two main potential barriers to cross-cultural relationships. One participant echoed this sentiment, saying that while a person’s race cannot be self-determined, that person’s religion and political views say a lot about his or her morals, beliefs, and personality, all of which could be considered important points of unity in any relationship. Family expectations were cited as another potential obstacle to intercultural dating. “I might not have a problem dating someone outside my race,” said one attendee, “but I know that my family might not be comfortable with it, and I have to take that into consideration.” Students credited the general lack of diversity on campus as a factor in their tendencies to not pursue partners with different backgrounds. One Caucasian male in the group said, “When I want to date someone, it’s usually someone I hang out with a lot. At Davidson, a lot of the group I hang out with happens to be white. I’m not saying that I wouldn’t date a black girl, but it would be harder to make that connection here.” Lee’s final question to the group concerned whether or not anyone in attendance had ever been mistreated at Davidson because of a relationship, intercultural or not, by either a partner or someone on the outside of the relationship. Responded one participant, “Davidson is just like the rest of the world; everyone’s got something to say. You get to the point where you have to tell everyone else, ‘I don’t care what you think.’”

“It seems to me that a standard lottery for senior apartments is entirely feasible. Although there are more people within each group, there are only 62 apartments to fill. Adam Sperling ’04 and I will continue to work with Dean Marsicano and the rest of the residence life office staff in order to devise an acceptable lottery procedure.”

Bear Rock Cafe Presents Exciting New Menu!
Mountain-Stuffed Sandwiches
Green Mountain Salads
Mouth-Watering Baked Potatoes
Daily Soup Calendar
Breakfast Daily
Gourmet Coffee
Scrumptious Desserts
Full Catering Menu with Delivery Available
Great Mountain Lodge Atmosphere
www.bearrockfoods.com

There's a bear in your neighborhood
$2.00 off Any Bear Rock Sandwich
BEAR'S ROCK
Peninsula Village location
Expires 1/31/03. Not valid with any other offers.
Peninsula Village
19400 Jetton
(704) 892-2012
fax (704) 892-2042
Mon.-Thur. 7am-8pm
Fri. 7am-9pm
Sat. 8am-9pm
Sun. 8am-5pm
Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner