Apply to Davidson in Washington
Dr. Russell Crandall will lead this summer's program, set for late May to late July. Applications can be picked up
from Dr. Crandall. For more information, contact his office.

Student-directed play opens next
"The Memory of Water" will open soon.

Campus Police Blotter

11/8/02 Watson Science Damage to Property
Unknown person(s) damaged a wooden door.

11/09/02 Martin Ct. Outside Ryburn Alcohol Violations
Two students received alcohol violations when officers observed one of them having a difficult time standing up. Upon seeing the
officers, the intoxicated student tried to run away, but the chase was short-lived, as he fell on his rear.

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE - VEGETABLE SOUP
Plus: Fresh Fruit Juice
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE AND LIMEADE

Eat-in or Take-out
896-7743

Hours: Mon-Thur 8-8, Fri 8-9, Sat 8-9
145 Main St., Davidson, NC

Since 1951.

Amnesty letter campaign delays Nigerian stoning

By CLINTON RICKARDS
Special Contributor

Earlier this semester, Amnesty International, DIA, SGA, and DASA organized a campus-wide letter writing campaign urging the Nigerian government to
revoke the death sentence given to Amina Lawal.

Lawal, charged with adultery for having a child out of wedlock, was sentenced to death by stoning under Shari'a law,
despite the worldwide outcry of human rights activists. Davidson students sent 336 letters to the Nigerian Ambassador in Washington, urging
the revocation of Lawal’s sentence.

According to Amnesty International reports, on Oct. 1, a week after the letters were sent, Nigerian President Obasanjo said, “We
cannot imagine or envisage a Nigerian being stoned to death... it has never happened. And may it never happen.”

However, on November 4, Nigerian Foreign Minister Sule Lamido defended the use of Shari'a law in Nigeria’s northern states, which
has been in place since 1999. With no date for Lawal’s appeal set, many human rights activists fear for Lawal’s
life—under law, she is still subject to the death penalty.

However, the case is not yet closed. Amnesty International is still flooding the Nigerian government with letters. With over a
70 percent success rate on its Urgent Actions and Appeals, these letters can be taken seriously. Students interested in writing
letters can find a sample letter at www.aiusa.org, and can send an appeal online. The 336 letters sent in September
helped alter the views of a president. As Annie Snider, co-president of the on-campus Amnesty International group, said in a
recent email, “Write a letter. Save a life. It only takes 15 minutes.”

Upcoming Events:
10/29 - Flower Arranging 12:00 PM
11/7 - Cooking Class 6:30 PM
12/12 - Holiday Centerpieces 12:00 PM

All classes held in the Commons. Faculty, Staff, and Students welcome.
