WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2002

By Matt Garfield
Managing Editor

Alumni returning for Homecoming Weekend were greeted with warm, sunny weather, plenty of handshakes, and hugs from old friends—and a
disastrous performance by the Davidson football team. Saturday’s 39-7 loss to Morehead State snapped a 14-game home winning streak—and more
importantly, virtually eliminated the Wildcats (3-2, 1-1) from the Pioneer League championship race.

Before most spectators had even arrived at their seats, Morehead State scored its first touchdown 20 seconds into the game,
after an interception on Davidson’s first play. The next three hours were more of the same, as the Eagles dominated
essentially every aspect of the game, out-gaining Davidson 505 yards to 220 and forcing six turnovers.

“The past week of practice before the game, we weren’t really focused,” said tailback John Leverett, who managed only 23
yards rushing before leaving with a sprained shoulder in the second quarter. “We just didn’t prepare for them the way
we should have.”

MSU (5-1, 1-0) jumped out to a 17-0 lead before Leverett scored the Wildcats’ only touchdown of the day on
a one-yard leap into the end zone.

The Davidson offense operated like clockwork in the previous week’s 44-7 win over Emory & Henry, but sputtered against a
quicker and more physical Morehead State team. No play was more costly than the first interception, which led to an
Eagles’ touchdown one play later.

“That was a demoralizer,” said Leverett, who expects to play Saturday against Georgetown. “With good teams like that, it’s hard
to get back up... The defense can’t stop them forever when you keep giving the ball up.”

MSU’s David Caudill lived up to his reputation as one of the league’s top quarterbacks, accounting for all four of
his team’s touchdowns with two passes and two rushes.

“Morehead State really didn’t do anything we didn’t expect. They just executed very well,” said Davidson head coach Mike Toop.

Volleyball splits
Team beats UNCG, Citadel but falls to College of Charleston

By Mike Giglio
Sports Editor

After finally ending its five-match losing streak on Sept. 22 against Chattanooga, the Davidson volleyball team began to establish a
more positive streak with a victory on Tuesday, Sept. 24, over UNC Greensboro. The Wildcats swept the match in three
games, defeating UNC in straight games, 30-20, 30-26, and 30-25.

Tisha Chapman set the tone for the night with her strong play in the first game, helping the ‘Cats out-hit
their opponent .250 to .077 in a very successful defensive effort. She would finish with fourteen kills on the day,
while posting a .500 hitting percentage. Julia Hueckel put up a double-double, and Roberta Quis had twelve putaways and four
blocks.

Davidson’s new winning streak was short-lived, however, as the ‘Cats were swept (30-23, 30-27, 30-28) in a league match with
powerhouse Georgia Southern, who remains undefeated in Southern Conference contests. Although the ‘Cats took the loss, the team played well
throughout the match and left the Eagles with the impression that they were lucky to record the sweep and maybe
even the victory.

After a disappointing first game, the Wildcats out-hit the Eagles in the second and at one point even led 17-14.
After losing the lead and eventually the game, Davidson bounced back to challenge Georgia Southern and threaten to force a
fourth game. An impressive offensive performance nearly won the game for the ‘Cats, as the team had eighteen kills with
just four errors and led 28-26 before letting it slip away.

Sophomore linebacker Brendan Dete offered a similar prognosis after spending much of Saturday chasing Caudill and fullback David White (14
carries, 79 yards). “It wasn’t that we couldn’t match up physically, they just out-executed us,” he said. “They came out
very aggressively. It’s hard to stop a good offense once it gets rolling.”gave Morehead State sole control of first place
in the PFL’s South Division with two conference games remaining. The Wildcats have one conference game remaining, at Austin Peay
on Nov. 9. “It’s no longer a championship season,” said Leverett. “It’s a best-we-can-do season. Now the goal is 8-2.”

On Saturday, the Wildcats were able to earn victory number ten as they easily defeated The Citadel in three games
(30-21, 30-25, 30-27). Quis, Hueckel, Chapman, and Tonelli dominated the match, as the Bulldogs were unable to contain the Davidson
attack. Quis put up eleven kills, while Hueckel and Chapman hit .643 and .545, respectively. Tonelli again led the team
in assists with twenty-seven. “The Citadel has always been a pushover match,” Quis explains, “so we were not too concerned
going into it.”

The ‘Cats didn’t have the luxury of playing a pushover on Sunday, when they squared off against the College of
Charleston. At 4-3, the two teams were tied for fourth place (out of eleven teams) in the Southern Conference. The
‘Cats and Cougars fought hard to win the fifth and deciding game, and Charleston was eventually able to overcome Davidson’s
efforts and take the match with a 15-12 victory. Commented Quis afterward, “We started off poorly in the first two
games, which really hurt us. The match could have gone either way. That is a comforting thought, since the College
of Charleston is one of the best teams in the conference.”

With league matches this week at home against Appalachian State (Friday 7 p.m.) and East Tennessee State (Saturday 1 p.m.),
the ‘Cats will look to define their own standing within the Southern Conference.

Quarterback Paul Nichols throws a pass during Saturday’s 39-7 Homecoming loss to Morehead State.

SoCon matches, goes the distance with Charleston

Volleyball tops Charlotte for first time since 1998

For only the second time in 10 years, the Davidson volleyball team earned a victory over Charlotte, prevailing in five
games by the score of 28-30, 35-33, 30-21, 18-30, and 15-9 on Tuesday evening in Belk Arena.

The win puts Davidson at 11-8 on the season while Charlotte falls to 10-9.

After Charlotte ran away with game four to even the match at two games apiece, the Wildcats roared out to
an 8-0 lead in the deciding game. During the early stretch, three points ended in blocks by Davidson. Junior Latisha
Chapman was involved in all three plays while senior Roberta Quis helped out twice and fellow senior Rebecca Teichgraeber once.
Charlotte would get only as close as five from there before a service error by the 49ers ended the match.
Davidson’s only other win over Charlotte since 1992 came in 1998 when the Wildcats defeated the 49ers in five games
as well.

The ‘Cats return to Southern Conference action this weekend against Appalachian State and East Tennessee State. Davidson opens against the
Mountaineers on Friday in Belk Arena at 7 p.m.

Sports Drain: The Davidsonian Player of the Week

Heather Maloney ’03 Soccer
Hometown: Ridgefield, Conn.
Major: Biology

Maloney notched her seventh goal of the season and 34th of her career in Saturday’s 2-1 win over Virginia Tech.
She is just five goals away from becoming the all-time leading scorer in Davidson women’s soccer history.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Women’s Soccer at Elon 4:00 p.m.
Field Hockey at Wake Forest 7:00 p.m.
Men's Soccer at Charlotte 7:00 p.m.

Friday:
Volleyball vs. Appalachian State 7:00 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country at North Carolina Intercollegiate Championships
Field Hockey at William and Mary 1:00 p.m.
Football vs. Georgetown 1:00 p.m.
Volleyball vs. East Tennessee State 1:00 p.m.
Men's Soccer at Radford 7:00 p.m.
Women's Soccer at College of Charleston 7:00 p.m.

Field Hockey at Maryland 1:00 p.m.
Women's Soccer at Georgia Southern 4:00 p.m.
Golf at River Landing Intercollegiate (through Tuesday)
