Reunion, from page 1

Holocaust and WWII at 4:15 p.m. A graduate of the University of Chicago and Harvard University, Denham is an associate
professor and chair of the German and Russian department at Davidson. His talk will examine how history makes its way
into popular consciousness through works such as Tom Brokaw’s *The Greatest Generation* and *The Diary of Anne Frank*, and the
relationship between popular history, cultural myth, and the truth.

On Saturday, April 20, at 9:30 a.m., there will be a solemn service at the college’s World War II memorial
on front campus to honor Davidson alumni who were killed in the war. The speaker for the occasion will be
Patty Wheeler, whose father, Davidson alumnus Benjamin Nash, was killed in October 1943, three months before she was born. As
a member of the World War II Orphans Network, Wheeler has spent a great deal of time looking for information
about the father she never knew and hopes to meet other Davidson veterans who were his classmates.

Holocaust survivor Zev Kedem will give an address at 11 a.m. Saturday in Love Auditorium. His is a story of
hope and human endurance. First taken to Auschwitz at the age of eight, Kedem survived the horrors of six concentration
camps and was one of 1,100 Schindlerjuden whose life was saved by Nazi industrialist Oskar Schindler. Following the end of
the war, he was sent to England to live in an orphanage. He consulted on and appeared in Steven Spielberg’s
Oscar-winning movie, *Schindler’s List*.

“It’s a story of endurance and hope,” said Merrell. “His message reveals that even in the midst of such inhumanity,
the humanity of Oskar Schindler and others revealed itself.” Merrell hopes all of the events will spark interest among Davidson
students, especially those in classes who are currently studying the war, including all those in the sophomore humanities program. He
notes that all students share a bond with the Davidson veterans, noting that the veterans were college age when called
not only to fight but to lead. “They were twenty years old, in charge of seventeen-year-olds, doing incredible things at
such a young age.”

Merrell notes further that the disaster of September 11 heightens awareness of the weekend’s themes. “The events of 9/11 made
this tribute all the more meaningful,” he said. “They call us to realize how precious freedom is, and how painful
war can be.”

Davidson’s Office of Alumni Relations is publishing a book of memories and anecdotes from the World War II years in
conjunction with the conference. Entitled *Soldiers and Sentinels: Davidson’s World War II Veterans Speak*, the 178-page book features stories from
more than 60 alumni and is on sale for $10. To order a book, or obtain more information on conference
events, call the college alumni office at 704-894-2114.

- With information from College Communications Press Release

Mellon, from page 1

He is the founder of the Anthropology Society, the co-founder of Davidson’s chapter of Students for a Free Tibet, and
was the co-editor of *Libertas* and *Hobart Park*. He is also a Bonner Scholar, served as president of the United
Community Action service organization, and established a tutoring program for Hispanic children. Campbell has also studied abroad in Mexico, Brazil,
Costa Rica, Australia, and Canada.

Campbell joins the group of five Davidson alumni who have been awarded the Mellon Scholarship since the competition began in
1982: Harry S. Bryant ’89, Daniel S. Grau ’89, Mary Adair Woodall ’90, Emily E. Setina ’99, and Lauren N.
Baird ’01. Setina was awarded her fellowship this year as...Well, and will use it to study twentieth-century poetry. Information taken
from www.woodrow.org/mellon/ and Davidson College Press Release.

Rusk, Kappa Sigma co-host Homeruns for Habitat
By Lee Bruner and Alyssa Sinclair
Special Contributors

On Sunday, April 7th, Kappa Sigma Fraternity and Rusk Eating House hosted the 14th Annual Homeruns for Habitat fundraiser at
Legion Field. Local sponsors, including Kobe Express, Lake Norman Regional Medical Center, and Liburdi Dimetrics donated money for each run
scored. Games began at noon and lasted until 4. Over 150 people participated in the event, including a faculty team
led by President Vagt, along with Patterson Court teams from KA, Connor, FIJI, CoHo, SAE, Warner, Rusk, and Kappa Sigma.
Midway through the afternoon, a program featured a performance by the Davidson Generals. Fountain Walker, a local Habitat homeowner, also
spoke at the event. This year’s event met the goal of raising $1400, which will be enough to cover the
costs of the foundation for the next Wildcat Habitat in Spring 2004. Kappa Sigma and Rusk would like to thank
all those who participated for their help in making this event possible.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER
3/25/02

This week, a student reported that during the last rash of car burglaries he had $2,300 worth of CDs removed
from his vehicle which was parked in the Greenhouse Satellite lot near the senior apartments.

NEWS
Wednesday, April 17, 2002

Robert Paxton '43 and Bill Rogers '46 will discuss various aspects of their service. Moderated by Professor of History, C.
Earl Edmondson.

3:15 p.m. “Resisting the Slide to Total War: American Strategic Bombing of Urban Areas in World War II and Its
Legacy” C. Shaw Smith 900 Room, Alvarez College Union Dr. Conrad Crane, Professor of Military Strategy from the U.S. Army
War College, will speak.

“The Holocaust and WWII” C. Shaw Smith 900 Room, Alvarez College Union Dr. Scott Denham, Professor of German, will deliver
the third annual Alumni Association Distinguished Lecture.

4:15 p.m. Saturday, April 20

11 a.m. “Schindler’s List: A Survivor Celebrates Life” Love Auditorium, Chambers Building Zev Kedem, a real-life Schindler’s List survivor, will
be our guest speaker.

9:30 p.m. FIREWORKS! - Join Davidson alumni and friends to conclude Reunion Weekend 2002 with a bang! Front Lawn, Vail
Commons

Please contact Reunion Coordinator Ms. Mary Hunter Wylie ‘02 at (704) 894-2450 or mawylie@davidson.edu with any questions.

MITSUBISHI’S EDUCATION EDGE PROGRAM 2002

Lancer

*Must be a college graduate within the past two years, or a college senior currently enrolled in a four-year program
and will receive your degree within 12 months from an accredited U.S. college or university, or a student currently enrolled
in a U.S. master's or doctoral program. Required to show documentation such as an application for graduation or a letter
from the student registrar's office stating the intent to graduate within one year. See participating retailer for other details.

**First payment is due 390 days, and finance charges begin 360 days from when the contract is signed. In Maine,
zero finance charges limited to 330 days and zero payments limited to 360 days. Program available through Mitsubishi Motors Credit’s
Special Retail Plan, subject to approved credit and insurance. Applies to new 2001 and 2002 models only. Excludes 2003 Eclipse
and Eclipse Spyder. Some customers will not qualify. Actual price set by retailer. Retailer terms and vehicle availability may vary.
Customers must take retail delivery from retailer stock and contract must be signed by program end date of 4/30/02. See
participating retailer or call 1-888-MITSU2002 for details.

***OZ Rally Edition shown, MSRP $15,597, plus $545 destination/handling ($670 Alaska). Excludes tax, title, and license. Actual prices set by
retailers. Vehicle availability may vary. Reprinted by permission from the December ‘01 issue of Kiplinger’s Personal Finance, ©2001 The Kiplinger
Washington Editors, Inc.
