Club Sports Information

After a long, intense summer of grueling workouts and a strict diet regimen, the Davidson Hockey squad returned to action
last week against the Redwings at the Charlotte Sports Center.

Despite missing their home opener, the Wildcats showed no signs of early season fatigue as they jumped out to a
quick lead with a goal by sophomore Richard Connolly in the opening minutes of the first period. Davidson continued to
pressure the opposition, forcing several turnovers that resulted in two more goals.

The Redwings managed to battle back strongly, however, and at the end of one period Davidson clung to a 3-1
advantage.

Not satisfied with the lead, the Davidson offense erupted in the second period with four goals.

Connolly managed to knock in two of these, en route to an amazing five-goal performance, while freshman standout Brent McCormick
notched his first tally in a Wildcat uniform.

Davidson’s defense played spectacularly, led by the 6’6” big man, Bryan Stevinson, who scored twice in the match.

When asked about his performance, Stevinson had this to say: “Our entire team knew that this was a big game
for us, one to set the standards for the season on. Defensively we all played solid, but [Ryan] Auster wasn’t
stepping up for the big plays tonight. I knew someone had to make some offensive rushes, so I stepped up
where he couldn’t.”

A humble man indeed, Stevinson also managed to humble the opposing team, finishing the game with a plus-5 rating.

The third period proved to be more of the same for Davidson, as they ended the game strongly and came
out with a 9-4 victory.

Jim Davidson and Julie Perry played exceptionally well while Josh Voorhees, despite complaining of numbness prior to the match, stepped
up big on defense.

With one goal and one assist, although he did acknowledge his mediocre play previously identified by Stevinson.

Most recently, the ‘Cats faced off against the Chiefs, who had beaten Davidson handily last season.

Marc Naples and Andrew Forester, absent in last week’s win, started the game strongly for Davidson on offense.

Again, Davidson came out ready to play, leading 2-1 after the first with goals by Connolly and Auster.

Voorhees, playing through the pain of an injured right wrist, blocked several crucial shots to keep the ‘Cats on top.

The Chiefs, however, proved to be more resilient than Davidson’s previous opponents and continued to attack, with several scoring chances
early in the second period.

In the end, however, the Davidson offense was just too much for the Chiefs to handle. McCormick tallied four goals
and Connolly added another, leading the squad to a 7-4 win.

“Everyone is playing extremely well right now,” Auster commented after the game. “All of our forwards have come out skating
strong and put the puck in the net, and our defense has played spectacularly. This tremendous start to our season
gives us a lot to look forward to as we approach our first few intercollegiate tournaments slated for early October.”

Davidson’s first Atlantic Coast Roller Hockey Association (ACRHA) tournament is set for October 5-6 at the Charlotte Sports Center.

The Davidson Inline Hockey Club is a constantly evolving body, continually looking for new, interested members. Players with experience are
encouraged to come out for this competitive team as soon as possible to begin skating in weekly Thursday practices. If
you are interested in learning more about us, contact President Ryan Auster (ryauster@davidson.edu).

Foreign and Domestic

Just down the street - within walking distance of Davidson College!

ONE STOP CAR SHOP

301 Depot Street Davidson, NC 28036

ASE Certified

10% DISCOUNT WITH VALID COLLEGE ID!

Call us for your free estimate: 704-892-5155 Chris Hall John Martin Master Mechanic Service Manager

How's your A/C working? Bring your car in for a free check!

Appalachian State at UNC Greensboro Feb. 15 East Tennessee State Feb. 18 at Georgia Southern Feb. 22 at Appalachian State
Feb. 25 College of Charleston

Southern Conference Tournament
