The

@ ALENDA LU

Davidson COLLEGE

J

D

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 8

DIA festival showcases dance, music

International students share tastes of home culture during Family Weekend

By Roland F. Foss
Staff Writer

For a little over three hours Saturday, the Union Atrium could have resembled Beirut, Paris, Istanbul, or Berlin. The Davidson International Association put together an International Festival of food, dance, music, and information that entertained an estimated 500 interested Davidson faculty, parents, and students.

“There were 21 countries represented, which is more than we have ever had before, and there were more performances this year than there have ever been in the past,” said Nidhi Paul ’03, DIA president and festival organizer.

Indeed, besides having informational booths for 21 countries and two organizations, the festival maintained a busy performing stage.

The audience was treated to ethnic dances, including Indian, Bulgarian, and Korean dances. The African Dance Troupe, Shades of Brown, and a Latin dance by Donna Nussman and the Davidson Dance Sport Team also dazzled the crowd.

Other performances included a world percussion demonstration by John Wilson, a Russian song sung by the Beginning Russian class instructed by Anastasia Oralova, a martial arts demonstration, and Mexican folklorico—a type of Mexican dance.

Reaction to the festival was enthusiastic. Bulgarian dancer Mario Prohasky ’05 remarked, “I think it was a great success because it seemed to me that the people who came were just as excited to learn about our cultures as we were to share our own experiences.”

Political science professor Shelley Rigger, a ten-time veteran of this annual festival, said she enjoyed this one the most. “It had a busy feeling to it that made it a lot more fun than previous festivals,” she said, and enthusiastically described the Latin dancing as “amazing.”

Those who missed the festival this year may want to put this day of food and fun into their schedules for next year.

Top (from L-R), Candy Baffour-Awuah ’06, Pearl Kyei ’05, Egyirba Walker-Arthur ’06, and Amrote Abdella ’06 perform a traditional African dance; Above, Bahar Pinarbasi ’03 and Mark Agerton ’06 demonstrate salsa; And Left, Mario Prohasky ’05 (center) dons a Bulgarian flag and performs a traditional Bulgarian folk dance with (from L-R) Kiril Simov ’05, Todor Penev ’06, Alina Lilova ’06, and Oh-jin Kwon ’06.

Sunshine Lady offers grants for service

BY Emily Drew
News Editor

“It sounds kind of ridiculous for an 18-year-old to have an idea that costs $10,000 and actually be able to go out and do it,” said Russ Burns ’05, who fulfilled his $10,000 idea last year when he received a Sunshine Lady grant to work with Davidson’s Parks and Recreation Department.

This financial opportunity for service is made possible for Davidson students by the Sunshine Lady Foundation, which officially named Davidson a “Sunbeam School” last year. Since then, Davidson students have been annually eligible for up to six awards of $10,000. Awards from the Sunshine Lady Foundation are used to promote student participation in non-profit ventures by allowing students to craft their own projects.

The foundation favors collaborative efforts, grassroots organizations, and programs to help women and children at risk. Still, any student with an idea for a project that involves a non-profit agency may apply.

According to the Grant Application packet compiled by Davidson’s Community Service Office, “The Sunshine Lady Foundation is dedicated to breaking cycles of poverty, abuse and economic dependence through investment in education.” Although the foundation awards large sums for proposed projects, the grant insists it is a “hand up, not a hand out.”

“The grant offers students a good opportunity because if there’s no money, people back off ideas and goals that they have. It’s rare to be able to apply for such a large amount,” says Isha Ahsan ’03, a member of the Davidson College selection committee. “It bridges the gap between what you see the need to be and how you see Shine, page 2

Students raise questions on admissions tactics, Pre-O

By Ros Hedrick
Staff Writer

Davidson students began a weeklong celebration of diversity Sunday evening with a panel discussion on the experiences of the college’s minority students. The panel is the second event of Diversity Week, a program designed to promote knowledge of and interest in the school’s international and minority population and cultures.

The Committee on Minority Affairs (COMA), a branch of SGA, sponsored the event, which drew a crowd of nearly 30 to West Hall Conference Room.

Representatives of several of Davidson’s minority and international groups were on hand to give accounts of their own experiences and to field questions from the audience.

Members of the panel relayed their knowledge of the importance of their roles as diplomats of their respective traditions. Bahar Pinarbasi ’03, representing the Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS), said that, as minority students in the Davidson community, “We are representing our cultures, our countries, and our backgrounds.”

The panel initially aimed to identify reasons for the seemingly natural and immediate separation of different cultures across campus. The discussion leaders agreed that differences in background cause students to gravitate towards the familiar, resulting in some of the divided (and exclusive) social circles visible in the population.

“One problem with international students and all minorities is culture shock and not knowing how to relate,” said Amrote Abdella ’04, a member of the Davidson International Association (DIA). “This makes people want to turn

see Panel, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Fall Convocation. See page 3.
News 1-4
PCC Gala raises $2,000 for Habitat house. See page 4.

Arts & Living 5-6
Scary movies for Halloween. See page 5.

Perspectives 7-8
Should the Beltway snipers face the death penalty? See page 8.

Sports 9-12
Men’s soccer faces Clemson. See page 12.