DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2002

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 3

Social forum provokes Code of Responsibility discussion

Code insufficiently publicized, enforced

By Caroline K. Hauser
News Editor

According to Mbye Njie '04, “All we hear is Honor Code, Honor Code, Honor Code, Honor Code. I didn’t even
know we had a Code of Responsibility when I started [at Davidson].”

What started last week as the latest in a series of forums on social life at Davidson quickly turned to
a discussion among students, staff, and administration about the role and reputation of the Code of Responsibility.

Committees on transportation, the alcohol policy, programming, and student/faculty relations presented their reports in the spring. This year, reports from
the student/police relations and the Code of Responsibility committees rounded out the list of topics.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley outlined the progress made by the police relations committee.

In response to students’ complaints of “not knowing” the officers, the six campus officers each adopted residence halls and met
with them in the spring while Patterson Court houses teamed up to sponsor “Doughnuts With Cops.”

Addressing more specific concerns, Shandley explained that satellite parking, site of a rash of break-ins last spring, is now fenced
off from Main Street and the back gate of the parking lot is now locked. Additionally, students’ desire for more
emergency callboxes is being pursued.

Answering a question from the floor, Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey clarified that the red parking spaces in front
of the union, marked “Visitor Parking, 30 Minutes” are indeed available to students in 30-minute increments.

The bulk of the meeting, though, focused on why, according to President Bobby Vagt, “the Code of Responsibility stops at
4 p.m.”

First years get their first taste of weekend life on Patterson Court at Sigma Phi Epsilon. Reaction to this year’s
First Night Down, page 5.

Patterson Court set for facelift

Renovations to begin fall ’02 with the Outpost, to end summer ’05 with Turner

By Jason Hult
Staff Writer

Though perhaps overshadowed by the massive ongoing construction on the Chambers Building, plans to renovate Patterson Court are taking shape.
Starting with the Outpost this fall, the school plans to renovate all 13 of the buildings by the fall of
2005. After renovations, the houses will be more convenient, efficient, and safe.

For several years, President Bobby Vagt has been gauging the feasibility and interest in an upgrade in the court facilities.
Faculty Advisor to Patterson Court Grahaeme Hesp explains, “We sensed a desire to renovate and spend some money.” Thus was
formed a renovations committee, comprised of representatives of all the fraternities and eating houses to generate a list of issues
to address in the renovation.

“The first thing we had to ask ourselves was whether or not the structures were secure and sustainable. From there,
renovation was the best option,” Director of Physical Plant David Holthouser explains. That list was then transformed into 18 renovation
options from which each house can select one. The variance in the plans offers the groups myriad different dining and
kitchen options.

One trend in some, but not all, of the new designs is the placement of the bar area on the
first level. A first-floor bar eliminates the liability of people going up and down the narrow staircases and facilitates a
less stratified party environment. In order to comply with the Code of Responsibility, the bar would have to be separated
by a wall from the larger dining area. Moving the bar upstairs also creates a closed basement area that can
be used as a lounge or study area.

See Court, page 2

One of the myriad options for Patterson Court house renovations.

Union Café adjusts to new location, tastes, costs

By Brandon Carroll
Staff Writer

While not usually a staple of any student’s diet, the Union Café is a popular alternative to Vail Commons and
other dining options on campus. Now in its second year at the Alvarez College Union location, the café has undergone
radical changes since moving from its location in the old union and the Outpost, and subtler ones from last year
to this one.

In the old union, the café did about $650,000 in sales annually, with another $100,000 at the Outpost on Patterson
Court, said Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services. Now in the Alvarez Union, “We hit a million last year. That’s
a thirty percent jump. It didn’t happen like that,” Terry said, snapping his fingers for effect. “We have to keep
working and improving to bring people in.”

Almost everyone who goes to the café now realizes the selection has grown enormously. Terry said, “Several people have said
to me, ‘The problem I have with the café is that I can’t decide what I want.’ Compare that with
a year or more ago when they knew what they wanted before they ever walked in the door.”

Part of the increase has come about due to the efforts of Ed Murkowski, Associate Director of Cash Services. Murkowski
oversees the café, bringing with him dining services experience at Kent State and Williams College. This past

See Café, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
New restaurants in Davidson, page four

Arts & Living 5-6
“Patterson Court Diaries,” page five

Perspectives 7-8
Iraq is back, page eight

Sports 9-12
Football tops Jacksonville, 28-10, p. 12
