Denzel Washington won Best Actor for his role in “Training Day.”

Black actors make history
By JENN Hiccins
Special Contributor

It turned out to be one of the longest Oscar nights in history. And also one of the most unforgettable.
Three African-American actors—Denzel Washington, Halle Berry, and Will Smith—were all up for nominations in what is one of the biggest
years ever for black actors. Many believed this level of recognition by the Academy was not enough to break down
barriers. Awards had to be given. History needed to be made to make a statement to the world that black
actors are not only deserving of lead roles, but also the rewards of brilliant performances.

Washington and Berry walked away with Academy Awards on the same night that the only other African-American recipient, Sidney Poitier,
received the Lifetime Achievement Award. Washington was chosen as Best Actor for his role as a corrupt cop in the
summer hit, “Training Day.” The award was not his first; he also won in 1989 for his supporting role in
the film “Glory,” with Morgan Freeman.

Berry, the sixth black actress to be nominated for an Oscar in a lead role, was the first ever to
win on Sunday. Ironically enough, she recently won the Emmy in 1999 for her role in the HBO film, “Introducing
Dorothy Dandridge.” (Dandridge was the first black actress to be nominated for a Best Actress Oscar.) Berry’s Oscar-winning performance in
“Monster’s Ball” as a death-row widow who becomes romantically involved with a prison warden has been highly lauded as the
best work of her career.

In her emotional acceptance speech, Berry did not stop with thanking her family and friends, but started by dedicating her
award to “every nameless, faceless woman of color that now has a chance” because of it. Washington tipped his hat
to Poitier, who led the way for black actors to find success in lead roles. Following their speeches, many pointed
directly to Berry’s comment about “opening doors” for all young black talent out there. Most believe that this Oscar night
was a step in the right direction for the Academy, and a pivotal moment in the history of African-American acting.
James Wilson, President of the NAACP, told BBC News that he is “hopeful that change will come from this and
open doors for more black talent in the industry.”

Its impact upon African-American history as a milestone in the movement for complete racial equality appears nominal to most. In
those 74 years, only six black actors have won Academy Awards, a mere 2.2 percent of all Academy Award recipients.
Four of the six wins have come in the last 20 years, while the 31 nominations since 1970 skyrocketed from
just eight in the previous four decades.

With their accomplishments on Sunday, Washington and Berry not only made film history but officially raised the bar for African-American
actors. And as a result, trends are showing that the Academy is finally ready to take notice of exceptional black
talent on the silver screen.

THE OPTICAL SHOP OF LAKE NORMAN
ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.O.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER
987-2288
103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RD. AT PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE.CORNELIUS SEIKO PRES THE ENTRANCE OF THE
NEAR DEAN & DE LUCA CRIPTION LABORATORY

Continuing our policy of offering Davidson students, faculty, and employees a 20 percent discount on eyewear and special prices on
eye exams.

Choose your adventure

By BEN TERESA AND STERLING ROZEAR
Special Contributors

As many of you know, last Sunday was the 74th Annual Academy Awards. If you wish to read about the
wonders of cinema, go to one of Derek’s articles. But if you prefer to read about something important, go to
paragraph one.

1. You step into the Union, but you don’t know what floor you are on because the first floor is
the second and the third is the fourth and then there is the climbing wall. If you choose to warm
yourself by the all-natural wood fireplace on the, uh, middle floor, go to paragraph two. If you choose to watch
a play, walk into the Duke Family Performance Theatre by going to paragraph three.

2. CH₄ + 2O₂ + heat -> CO₂ + 2H₂O.

3. Picasso dances with French women. A stunning performance by Cahit Ece... A poignant appearance by young Elvis. If you
follow Elvis back to Graceland, go to paragraph 4. If you dance with the devil in the pale moonlight, go
to paragraph 5.

4. Fried banana and peanut butter sandwich residue coats the missing F to the Union Café sign found lodged in
the toilet bowl tank along with three handles of JD, one Trojan magnum, and Ben and Sterling’s dignity. If you
like peaches, go to paragraph six. However, if you’re more of a telephone employee, go to paragraph six.

5. Why?

6. In Afghanistan, while vanquishing the evildoers of the axis of evil, take a moment of consideration. If you ponder
the Oscars, go to Derek’s article. If you continue to protect Liberty, go to paragraph seven. If you enter the
nearby cave, go to paragraph END.

7. You protect Liberty, embodied by Chris Farley’s van down by the river, by reminding Afghan children that smoking pot
is bad, drinking coke is good, and their daddies are all going to hell. If the Afghan children respond, respond,
respond, respond, what? Contextual asthetification. Woop Woop. If the Afghan children sing “Take Ya Home” by Lil’ Bow Weezy, go
to paragraph nine.

9. You’re not a girl, not yet a woman. Pop quiz, Brendan O’Sullivan is leaving. BIG up to BOS. Please
say goodbye. If you wish to get to our main point, go to paragraph END. If you wish to continue,
go to paragraph ten.

10. Feeling hungry after this mind-expanding voyage, you’re off to the Union to get some food. Go to paragraph one.

END. You enter the mysterious cave. Present are the Loch Ness Monster, Tatyana Ali, and Boutros Boutros-Ghali. A game of
“Mother May I?” rages in the corner while Jennifer Connelly composes a trite, yet unappealing speech to deliver at her
Oscar acceptance. No hay banda. Reflecting on the day’s events, you wonder: I’m not a doctor, but I play one
on TV.

www.tatyanaali.com
Ashley Banks from “Fresh Prince”

Work in Davidson This Summer
Summer Employment in The Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer workers. Positions are available in all departments. Interested students should contact
Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office, Ext. 2.
