Sports INFORMATION
Press Release

The 15th-ranked Penn State women’s lacrosse team defeated Davidson 13-5 Friday afternoon amid lightning strikes and sudden downpours to improve to 5-7, 2-1 in the American Lacrosse Conference. The Wildcats fell to 5-9, 0-3 in conference action.

Senior midfielder B.J. Lucey got the Lions started off quickly, scoring less than three minutes into the game on a pass from freshman Emily Chambers, but Davidson answered with a goal of their own by senior Blair Otto at the 24:32 mark.

Another Lucey goal nine seconds later put the Lions up 2-1, and marked the beginning of an 8-0 Penn State scoring run that would last until 17 minutes left in the second half.

Senior Brooke Bailey converted a shot from sophomore Katie Jeschke at the 21:10 mark, followed by two goals within 20 minutes from freshman Kristen Burke. Senior Molly Ford tallied a goal on a free position shot with 1:25 remaining in the half to put Penn State up 6-1 at the end of the first stanza.

Penn State picked up where it had left off, with Lucey scoring her third goal of the game just 20 seconds into the half. Junior Colleen O’Hara mimicked Lucey two minutes later, putting the Lions up 8-1.

A converted Bailey free position shot with 17:04 remaining pushed the score to 9-1. But the Wildcats charged back, tallying three goals, two by senior Sarah Otto, within a two and a half minute span to make the score 9-4 in favor of the Lions.

Then Mother Nature took over. A lightning strike suspended play with 11:41 remaining in the contest, forcing fans and players alike to scramble for cover as a sudden downpour enveloped Jeffrey Field.

Twenty minutes later, play resumed as the sun returned to Happy Valley. Davidson’s Loren Seaton tallied the first goal after the break, bringing the Wildcats to within four goals with seven minutes to play.

A free position goal by Penn State sophomore Jamie Donahue increased the margin to five and goals by Lucey, Donahue, and sophomore Katie Hartman made the final tally 13-5.

Davidson’s Becca Nussbaum notched 17 saves while PSU goalkeeper Lee Tortorelli recorded 7 saves.

The next day, the team dropped its ninth straight contest with a close, but disappointing 7-6 loss to Northwestern.

Davidson falls to 5-10, 0-4 in conference action.

Davidson got into the scoring column first with a goal by senior Christin Raimondo, but Northwestern scored the next four goals and took a 4-1 lead at the intermission.

Northwestern continued its stretch of consecutive goals to six with a pair of goals to open the second period.

Raimondo tallied her second goal of the game to make the score 6-2 in favor of Northwestern.

The Davidson Wildcats continued to rally, as the Otto twins scored the next three goals of the game.

Sarah Otto scored with just over 20 minutes to play and then had her sister, Blair, add two more to cut the lead to just one goal, 6-5, with 12:34 left in the game.

Northwestern scored the game-winning goal with just over six minutes to play before Sarah Otto added a final goal with 1:04 to play in the game.

The Wildcats close out the season next weekend with games at Ohio on April 26 and at Ohio State on April 28.

Uptown Area
(704) 334-4400
(901 S. Kings Dr. Location)

Dip into something different.

Experience one of Charlotte's most unique restaurants. Come any evening to relax, unwind and enjoy fabulous fondue, fine wine, and fun times.

The Melting Pot,
a fondue restaurant

RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED
www.meltingpotcharlotte.com

University Area
(704) 548-2432
(230 E. WT Harris Blvd. Location)

Crew Club Secretary

In the past, the Davidson crew has only gone to the Southern Intercollegiate Rowing Association Regatta (SIRA) as a learning experience and to see some of the best clubs in the nation compete. This year, Davidson surprised those incredibly powerful teams and showed them that it can no longer be taken lightly.

Although the varsity men’s team captured medals at each of the spring regattas this year, hardly anyone thought they could achieve a top ranking amidst SIRA’s stiff competition. Even when they made a strong showing in the earlier heats, placing second in the preliminaries and third in the semi-finals, it still seemed that a medal was in reach.

In the finals, however, the varsity men stepped up their performance and fought hard against the University of Texas to tie for the bronze medal. As a matter of fact, the battle for third place was so close that the race officials could not decide which boat finished first even after watching the videotape. The judges finally compared race times and found that the two teams both completed the race in exactly 7:17.43 seconds and granted both teams the bronze.

The men’s victory is even more impressive considering that crew at Davidson is a club sport and does not have a full-time coach, unlike most of the other teams at SIRA. The varsity men will advance to the Champion Collegiate Regatta which will be held in Gainesville, GA, in mid-May. This will be the first time in the history of Davidson crew that a boat will attend a national regatta.

Despite their amazing finish at SIRA, the varsity men remain humble about their victory. While sophomore varsity rower, Charlie Babcock, acknowledges his boat’s accomplishments because it “represents a phenomenal race” and “attests to the importance of determination in achieving one’s goals,” he quickly points out that the rest of the team also made an impressive showing.

“The attention we have received,” says Babcock, “neglects the novice men and varsity women who also had spectacular races.”