The

JB

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

@ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 3

Hello Friend:
Cosby plays to
packed house

By Matt Garfield
Editor

Bill Cosby’s trip to Belk Arena didn’t go quite as the Union Board had planned, but once the legendary comedian
got here, he gave a near-capacity audience of 4,500 about 90 minutes of classic Cosby humor, mixing wisecracks about growing
up with serious advice about life for young people.

Concert Committee Chairperson Liz Smith ’04 intended to meet Cosby’s private jet at Concord Regional Airport on Tuesday afternoon to
accompany him to campus. But after Cosby didn’t arrive at the appointed time, she soon got a cell phone call
telling her that his plane had instead landed at Charlotte Douglas International Airport, 25 minutes away.

Luckily they were able to meet in Charlotte and make it to Davidson in plenty of time for the show.

Dressed in a Davidson sweatshirt, gray sweatpants, socks and sandals, Cosby took the

see Cosby, page 6

Alcohol citations up 88% over last fall

Are students partying more or is Campus Safety cracking down?

By Joseph Taylor and Sarah-Grace Wesley
Staff Writers

Data collected by Public Safety reflects an 88 percent increase thus far for fall 2003 over the entire fall 2002
semester. Stricter enforcement of alcohol policies is considered as a leading cause in the jump.

The number of alcohol violations distributed by Campus Safety to date this year is 32. In fall 2001, 14 violations
were issued; in spring 2002, 4 were issued; in fall 2002, 17 were issued. Zero documented alcohol violations were issued
by Public Safety in spring 2003.

Police enforcement is being called the most influential factor in this increase.

Lt. Jim Lyon, Assistant Director of Public Safety notes, “Statistics are reflective not necessarily on the students’ attitudes and perceptions
about alcohol, just on our consistent enforcement.”

He feels that enforcement in the past—before Fountain Walker, Director of Public Safety, arrived—was not as consistent as it is
now, and this consistency accounts for the increase in citations given out and not necessarily an increase in the number
of students drinking.

Walker commented on the policy, which has become known as the “Solocup” policy, referring to the brand of plastic cups
used at parties. Under the policy, officers will not approach an underage student with an unmarked cup to check the
contents unless the student is behaving in an unsafe manner.

see Alcohol, page 2

The back of a Patterson Court house after a recent night of partying

Less lounges means less bonding
Crunch causes RLO to begin rethinking no-cable policy

By Carrington Skinner
Staff Writer

Most students are aware of the difficulties the school is faced with because of this year’s overpopulation. Seven of the
school’s 34 lounges in residence halls are currently being used as bedrooms this semester, forcing many to use lounges that
are not on their halls.

The RLO and SGA have been working together to find compromises so that student amenities and housing can both be
accommodated. This task has proved daunting, as expansion of lounges and other student-requested services come at a high cost.

“With more students than ever needing on-campus housing, we can’t afford to reassign bedroom space to other uses,” explains Dean
Leslie Marsicano, Director of RLO. “That is, we can’t make more lounges, kitchens, or bike storage if that means we
lose bedrooms for 6 or 10 or 20 students.”

Marsicano has asked the SGA to create a committee to explore what amenities students would prefer so that they can
be a part of the plan as construction and renovation of residence halls continues.

Some students have expressed frustration over the lack of lounges and hope that there will be some type of remedy
to the situation in the near future. Gavin Taylor ’06 believes that having fewer lounges this year has hurt the
community atmosphere.

“Last year my lounge was great. There were always people in there watching a game or trashy TV or something,
and it was a place where everybody got to know each other,” said Taylor. “We don’t have a lounge at
all, except for the one we share with the girls downstairs. I still don’t know some of the guys on
my new hall, and I don’t consider it a coincidence.”

Some students also believe that the lounge crisis has created an ideal situation for the addition of cable television to
dorm rooms. Sophomore SGA President Jack Hubbard ’06 is continuing his crusade to provide cable to rooms. Hubbard believes that
if students have

see Lounge, page 2

Men’s soccer takes crown at Vanderbilt tourney
SPORTS, PAGE 10

Cannon brews up fun times in Mooresville
A&E, PAGE 6

Mabe weighs in on cafe controversy
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 7
