By Lucy Long, Staff Writer

Rock climbing has been the up-and-coming sport for outdoor enthusiasts looking for the ultimate challenge. Climbing has evolved from early
expeditions across Europe, to the first free climb in 1869 in the U.S. on Cathedral Peak, to the nationwide phenomenon
of indoor climbing gyms. Climbing equipment alone has turned this sport into a fierce industry of technical gear and outfitting.
But beneath all the carabiners, procams, chocks, daisy chains, pitons, wallnuts, peenuts, and nut extractors, you will find a sport
that’s one-of-a-kind. It’s you and the mountain: a sport where you compete with only yourself and your mind. Climbing is
about choosing your goals and taking it at your own pace.

The Lingo

For those who don’t really know much about the sport, here are some basic terms you need to be familiar
with:

- Aid Climbing: When the climber depends on rope equipment to support his/her own weight and to assist in upward
movement.
- Bouldering: Climbing rocks/walls without the assistance of a rope and using a “crash pad” (foam-filled mat) to break your
fall.
- Free Climb: Strictly using the rock to climb while the rope and equipment are used only for protection purposes,
unlike aid climbing where you are dependent on rope support to assist you.
- Free Solo: Wall climbing you would typically use a rope with, but you aren’t using any equipment for protection;
more advanced than bouldering.
- Pitch: A section of a climb typically measured by the length of a climbing rope (165 ft).
- Sport Climbing: Lead-climbing routes (where you are climbing ahead of the rope) using pre-drilled bolts in the wall to
secure the rope and break your fall; focuses on technical moves rather than gear placement and route finding.
- Top Roping: Using an anchor system created above the climb; allows the climber to ascend the wall with protection
coming from the top (this is the ideal climbing method for beginners).
- Traditional/Trad Climbing: When the climber places his or her own gear into the rock face as he/she ascends; trad
climbing is riskier than sport climbing because there aren’t pre-drilled bolts to allow the support of large falls; the key
to trad climbing is the mastering of gear placement into the rock face and the use of advanced equipment.

Getting Started

Never climbed before and ready to test it out? The first place to go is Davidson Outdoors. Two big bonuses:
it’s free and it’s on campus. Head down for some beginner climbing lessons on bouldering, belay procedures, and basic climbing
techniques. D.O. has an assortment of shoes, harnesses, and helmets for student use on or off campus. The climbing wall
has routes ranging from beginner to advanced, either for top roping or bouldering. If you are interested in bouldering in
the area, Davidson Outdoors can point out some good sites around Lake Norman. D.O. climbing wall hours are Monday through
Friday 3:30-5:30 p.m., and Monday through Thursday 7-9 p.m.

If you’re hooked, check out Inner Peaks in Charlotte for a more extensive climbing gym. They have 8,000 square feet
of climbing walls, 40 top rope stations for belay, obstacles such as arches and roofs, and three long cracks for
mastering the moves. A single day pass costs $13, while full equipment rental including climbing shoes, harness, belay device, chalk
bag, and a helmet costs $7. Money-saving tip: the first Wednesday of each month is College Night when you get
a single day pass including equipment rental for a discounted rate.

For more information, contact juklein@davidson.edu.Includes utilities; cable. Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341 or email: jklein@work-on.campus.

There is a one-time fee of $5 to get the required Inner Peaks belay lesson on your initial visit. Check
out innerpeaks.com for more information on memberships and hours of operation. When you’re comfortable with your climbing movement inside the
gym, then you’re ready to get outdoors.

Outdoor Climbing

For the more experienced, the Blue Ridge Mountains have some of the best climbing in the East. Grab your gear
and get on the road for some extreme North Carolina climbing action:

Crowder’s Mountain - Located just outside Charlotte, and is often called “Crowded Mountain;” its proximity to the city brings in
lots of hikers and climbers on the weekends. It’s more of a hill than a mountain with an elevation of
1625 feet, but it’s also a great way to escape for a day trip. Crowder’s has fun, short climbs that
are great for top roping as a result of trail access to the tops and bottoms of many climbs. There
are also some sport climbing spots.

Linville Gorge - Located in Linville Falls, it’s considered the Grand Canyon of North Carolina. Table Rock is where you
want to be climbing with moderate experience because of its short approaches and easy retreats. It’s easily accessible, has some
bolts and anchors at frequented belay sites, and good multi-pitch routes for trad climbing.

Looking Glass Rock - Located in Brevard; it’s nicknamed the “eyebrow” for the slashes found on the surface of these
domed shaped rocks. This rock has climbs for beginners through experts with some faces that are over 500 feet high.
The South Face of Looking Glass has a few one or two pitch climbs, while the Nose contains more difficult
multi-pitch traditional climbs.

Whiteside Mountain - Located in the Highlands, Whiteside is really where you get your feet wet offering the toughest climbing
in North Carolina. The cliffs here are around 700 feet, with an elevation of 4,930 feet. Some of the aid
and free routes are as long as ten pitches; this mountain is only for the experienced trad climber!

You'll need a full rack of gear for Linville Gorge, Looking Glass Rock, and Whiteside Mountain. For further information on
access, needed equipment, and route suggestions, look into the following guidebooks: “The Climbers Guide to North Carolina” by Thomas Kelley;
“Selected Climbs in North Carolina” by Yon Lambert; “Southern Rock” by Chris Hall.

Climbing is a great way to meet new people, test your strength, and develop team skills. Nothing feels better than
making it to the top, so climb on!

DON'T LEASE UNTIL YOU SEE US!
$459 Special on our spacious 1 BR apartments!
1 mile off I-77 & Exit 30 near Davidson College
Hurry! They're going fast!
704-892-1859
835 Beaty Street
Davidson, NC 28036

What Do You Think?
What’s your opinion of the RLO lottery?

“I think it’s unfair to get a bad number two years in a row, but one good aspect of the
lottery is that you get to know who will be living near you.”
Paul Wyatt ’05

“It’s pretty random, but it seems fair enough for my class.”
Katie Cox ’06

“It could be frustrating because you might have a plan, but you could lose the room you want before you
have a chance to get it.”
Christian Rothenbach ’06

“I got the last number, but it had to happen to somebody. I guess it’s kind of like the Iditarod
race: there you get a prize for being the last to finish, and I just get quoted by the Davidsonian.”
Mary Fulton ’06
