‘Staff Editorial: Stop. Look. React.

The Davidsonian takes its editorial headline—and position—from a sign that appeared at the site of this weekend’s vandalism. “KKK” spray-painted
on a sidewalk or the side of a building is enough to make people stop. It is enough to make
people look. Is it enough to make people react?

Several students photographed the crime scene and publicized the images. Five juniors made a banner proclaiming, “We will not tolerate
racism.” Hundreds of people signed it. That’s not enough.

Some students were genuinely shocked by the vandalism. Others say this incident isn’t particularly noteworthy. Racist graffiti, they say, is
just a physical manifestation of the pervasive racism that plagues Davidson. This is a conversation that needs to take place
in a context larger than the BSC mailing list. This isn’t a BSC problem. If you are not white, Protestant,
straight, and male, chances are the KKK is going to have problems with you. More to the point, racism isn’t
just about the offended. Offenders—conscious of their social crimes or not—need to hear concerns. It is our duty to recognize
and understand racism and its detrimental role at Davidson. The difference between being unaware of the problem and ignoring it
is the difference between ignorance and hate.

Only by engaging the entire campus can progress be made. The position that this is a conversation best had in
dorm rooms and over brunch at Commons ignores an institutional obligation to address an incident that affects most—if not all—people
on campus. For too many students, putting cable in dorm rooms is a higher priority than pushing racism out. Why
has there not been a demonstration at the graffiti site? Why has a campus debate on the plight of minorities
at Davidson not been announced?

Years ago, when the KKK last staged a rally in Davidson, students led an anti-march, redirecting campus and community attention
from segregation to solidarity, from hate to healing. When has this generation of Wildcats marched? Too often, we resist taking
a strong stance on issues, leaning on the bowed crutch of “critical thinking.” Sometimes, you don’t have to see every
side. Sometimes, things are wrong and need to be called wrong. And sometimes, when something is wrong, radical reaction is
right.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003

Please respect the Vamanos Van

This past weekend, the Vamanos Van’s outside wall was littered by an unknown person with Patterson Court Risk Management stamps,
leaving over two dozen stamp stains all over its exterior and leading to a hefty bill for SGA. Now, obviously
Davidson College students have a fetish with weekend destruction—of red bikes, green chairs, and light posts—but somewhere this needs to
stop. The Vamanos Van does not belong to the Davidson College community; it does not belong to SGA or its
Rides Committee; it belongs...to Davidson College, and when damage is done to it, the school feels the effects, and SGA
pays the bills. In case you haven’t noticed, the red bikes and green chairs are hard-pressed to compete with such
destruction, and I'd like the Vamonos Van not to join that list. Treat the Van with respect; don’t trash it;
don’t leave a mess in it; don’t put stamps all over it. The Vamonos Van is there for you to
use and have fun on, and I sincerely believe that SGA will support it to the end of its days,
but if incidents like the one this past weekend escalate any further, tensions will surely build. Please don’t send the
Vamonos Van in the same direction as the red bikes.

Walker Saik ‘06

Thanks for asking about 17% signs

I just wanted to thank the Davidsonian for asking students about the 17% posters, mugs, and pens around campus. I
loved all of the responses. It really is very straightforward and simple. 17% of Davidson students drink alcohol once a
year or less (Based on CORE survey data 2002). I am more curious to know if students think this number
seems high or low or about right. There is no other message intended. A new number is coming out this
January on the drinking habits of Davidson students. I am letting students know what the data says to help correct
misperceptions about alcohol use.

Georgia Ringle, Health Educator

Wanted: Info on weekend’s graffiti

This past weekend something happened that affects our entire community. Someone spray-painted the initials of an organization that has historically
demonstrated a lack of tolerance for anyone other than those like themselves. This incident occurred near the Belk Computer Room
sometime early Saturday morning or late that evening. The suspect(s) spray-painted “KKK” on a sidewalk and nearby wall. As of
now, we have no witnesses or physical evidence, but our investigation will remain open until a suspect is properly identified.

From the outside, our community does not appear ethnically diverse, but we have a great deal of diversity when it
comes to minority groups. The Ku Klux Klan, either spoken or written, has identified women, gays, non-Christians, and non-whites as
less than equals. This group has also used violence and intimidation to impress upon others their beliefs. From a law
enforcement standpoint, the Davidson College Department of Public Safety & Police is obligated to protect the life and property of
all members of this community. Having said that, we will conduct a thorough investigation utilizing all available resources. If anyone
knows anything about this trifling act, please contact the Public Safety Department. This can be done anonymously via the Silent
Witness Program or you can contact North Mecklenburg Crime Stoppers at (704) 896-STOP. If the information given to North Mecklenburg
Crime Stoppers helps police to locate and affect an arrest on a suspect, that individual can receive up to $500.00.

Respectfully,
JAR Fountain L. Walker
Dir. Public Safety & Police

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor.

A DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

ARRG! I HATE it when candidates make Promises
