Staff Editorial

Music conflict gives students’ autonomy a workout

The discussion about appropriate music for the Union Fitness Center hits a lot of hot buttons: profanity, obscenity, free speech,
public vs. private space, students vs. administration... the list goes on. Some think the central issue in the controversy is
administrative intervention. “Adults don’t like our music and want to flex control over our lives in every way possible,” goes
one absolutist argument. As this week’s lead article reveals, though, many of the complaints have been lodged by students.

Another camp, set up firmly in the gray area, plays a Clintonesque game of rhetoric: “What is profane? Who defines
‘obscene’? Isn’t everyone offended by some content? How many people have to be offended for something to be offensive?” As
Dr. Mary Thornberry points out, though, “We are not a public institution.” As such, the school ultimately defines “obscene” and
“offensive.” The school owns the stereo, so the school can regulate what is played on it.

Such a hard-line position is palatable to few. Big Brother-ing music selection strikes some as the first step (or third
or fourth) towards ignoring student input and regulating self-expression. Unlike in Israel or Iraq, it isn’t hard to find a
middle ground in the Union. Students, staff, and faculty should come into the space expecting to be treated equally and
with respect. And let’s not forget, working out to obnoxiously loud and obviously offensive music is hardly a right. Most
of North Carolina still has laws against profanity on the books.

On the other hand, complaints should be reserved for people who are truly offended or uncomfortable. If the music is
too loud or too profane, that’s one thing. If someone got there before you and put in John Mayer, tough
it out. Better yet, bring your own and keep it to yourself. While we don’t necessarily advocate the downloading of
copyrighted material, there’s a lot more self-expression in burning your own workout mix and listening to a Discman or mp3
player than blasting the covers off the gym speakers just because you can. And you won’t have to listen to
anyone who does.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

Ali Fitzgerald

Cosby right choice for fall Baker show

There are two schools of thought concerning the great, almighty, hilarious Bill Cosby (hereafter to be referred to as Mr.
Cosby). Everyone can appreciate his importance and talent, but there is some disagreement on whether or not he is relevant
to the Davidson student body. Some feel that he is not because they think he is a relic of a
past generation. Mr. Cosby’s supporters respond to this accusation with loud cries of denial. However, I, a huge believer in
the perpetual funniness of Mr. Cosby (I confess to camping out for front row seats), must say that I agree
that he is a “relic” of the past.

How can I say such a thing? Because it is true. Mr. Cosby, bless his heart, is not a modern
teenager. The mental leap that many fail to take is that it’s okay. Those people here at Davidson not of
the teenage generation...(e.g.: everyone minus the student body) live under constant bombardment from our pop culture. Whether it is a
blaring rock concert, fliers on the wall, or slogans on a tee-shirt, Davidson professors and staff live in an environment
ruled by a very different generation. They do not try to radically adapt themselves to fit the situation (I have
yet to see a Britney Spears or Orlando Bloom poster in a professor’s office), but, instead, lean back and appreciate
the view, and maybe, just maybe, they learn something from us. Well, “what’s sauce for a goose is sauce for
a gander;” maybe it’s time that we gave the older generation a bit of our time. As the saying goes,
“Those who are ignorant of the past are doomed to repeat it.” (This is so true. I mean, it has
taken people centuries to figure out that they shouldn’t fight a war in Asia during the winter, and I’m betting
that someone, someday, will try it again. Seriously people, be smart!). Yes, I know that I’m not talking about someone
as different from us as Alexander the Great, but even subtle differences can be important. If we are going to
lend the past our ears, then why a comedian? Present the testimonies of two of the greatest comedians of all
time: Mark Twain and Bob Hope. Mr. Twain says, “The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is
laughter.” Pause. Think about that. Mr. Hope once said: “I have seen what a laugh can do. It can transform
almost unbearable tears into something bearable, even hopeful.” Pause. Think about that. Those two quotes come closer to describing how
I feel than I could ever describe; the feeling that, rather than being a strange choice, a comedian is the
ambassador from the past that could possibly have been chosen. Finally, if we are to listen to a comedian, then
why Bill Cosby? Because he is the King of Comedy. Why? Because he makes us laugh. That is truly the
long and the short of it. See you there. Tammy Ivins ‘07

Shakespeare story a little off the mark

The lead article in the Davidsonian dated September 10 makes this statement about what the Royal Shakespeare Company may be
performing when the troupe arrives for a residency at Davidson College in 2005: “One production being tossed around is ‘Henry
III,’ an uncommon choice that might focus on history amid another unique interpretation.” The statement needs clarification. First, Shakespeare didn’t
write a play called Henry III, so the choice would indeed be uncommon. The two plays that are being discussed
as possibilities are the two parts of Henry IV. Second, those two plays are chronicle history plays and, as such,
most certainly (not just “might”) focus on history. Third, if I better understood what the phrase “amid another unique interpretation”
meant, I would respond more pointedly than I’m able. Suffice it to say that “another” is misleading, since the interpretation
of Henry IV as historical is, as stated above, not “unique.”

Dr. Cynthia Lewis
Department of English

ADOSA’ FILOSA
BY LAURA FILOSA

PROFESSOR SMITH KNEW ONE DAY HER 80'S SWEATER WOULD BE BACK IN STYLE,
