_ THE 2s Sd By Erin DELK Staff Writer — For the first time since 1999, the Davidson women’s basketball team advanced to the semifinals of the Southern Conference Tournament, held this year in Charleston, S.C. The team’s gutsy play and end-of-game surges pushed the ’Cats past both Wofford and Western Carolina. Third-ranked Georgia Southern put an end to Davidson’s run, however, with a 62-57 victory in the semis.

The story for the tournament was Davidson’s absolute refusal to give up. In both of the first two games, the ’Cats found themselves down in the final five minutes, yet they managed to score the final nine points in each game. As Ashley Hallsted ’04 noted, “We found a way to win despite less than stellar shooting nights. Our defense down the stretches of our games against Wofford and Western was so key in the wins; it sparked our offense and gave us a goal to focus on through all the nervous tournament atmosphere that builds up.”

Down 70-63 to Wofford with 4:19 remaining in the first round, Davidson’s comeback began with a driving layup from Robyn Flewelling ’04 to cut the deficit to 70-65 with 4:09 remaining. After Davidson forced a Wofford turnover, Courtney Laird ’04 connected on her only three-pointer of the game to bring the Wildcats to within two at 70-68. Another Terrier turnover gave Davidson a chance to tie the game on its next possession. Laird earned a trip to the charity stripe but only hit the first free throw, making the score 70-69 in favor of Wofford with 2:56 showing. Neither team could connect in the next two minutes before Bethany Schott ’03 got fouled in the lane with twenty seconds left. The forward hit both free throws to put Davidson ahead 71-70. From there, the Wildcats pressured Wofford into its twenty-first turnover of the night. Flewelling made 1-of-2 free throws with seven seconds remaining to extend Davidson’s lead to two. Wofford’s Ricaye Harris then put up a last-second three-pointer that rattled in and out, giving the ’Cats their first tournament victory in three years.

The final minutes in Davidson’s second round game against Western looked strikingly similar. Trailing 58-53 with 2:59 remaining, Ashley Hallsted ’04 started the run by connecting on a mid-range jumper to cut the deficit to three. Both teams hit a scoring drought for the next ninety seconds, but junior Meghan Bryant’s layup brought Davidson to within one with :53 left. Twenty-two seconds later, Hallsted drained her second three-pointer of the night to put Davidson ahead 60-58 with eighteen seconds left. After a Catamount timeout, the Wildcats forced Jennifer Gardner into a traveling violation. Flewelling then connected on two free throws to seal the triumph.

In both victories, the ’Cats exchanged scoring runs with their opponents for most of the first halves yet entered halftime down in both games. As head coach Annette Watts remarked, “It’s a big step for Davidson basketball to get knocked down and back up again. At no time did we give up, and that’s why we’re still here.”

photo by Chris Keane Junior Meghan Bryant squares up against a Georgia Southern defender in the semifinals of the Southern Conference Tournament.

Unfortunately, the ’Cats were not able to dig themselves out of their first half hole against Georgia Southern in the semifinal game. The tournament hype seemed to affect Davidson in the first ten minutes as the ’Cats threw up difficult first looks and several long-range three-pointers, while the Eagles looked calm and poised as they burst out to a 17-2 lead. Nonetheless, the resilient ’Cats clawed their way back into the game. Four different players contributed to a 9-0 spurt for Davidson to get the Wildcats to within two, 26-24, at the 3:20 mark. Emily Callahan ’04 tallied a putback and followed that with her second three-pointer of the game to actually give the Wildcats the lead, 29-28, with 2:13 remaining in the first half. The Eagles responded with a 9-0 run of their own to enter the break up 37-31. Georgia Southern shot a season-best 55.6% from the floor in the first half.

The second half remained close until the last five minutes of the game. Davidson’s earlier success in final surges didn’t materialize, and Georgia Southern went on an 8-1 run to push ahead 58-54 with only 53 seconds remaining. Laird finally ended the dry spell by draining a three-pointer from the left wing to make the score 58-57 with twenty-eight seconds showing on the clock. Following two free throws by Hill to push GSU ahead 60-57, Davidson had one last chance to tie the game. Callahan put up a three from the right side but the shot hit the back of the iron and bounced out. Callahan paced Davidson with sixteen points.In the game, but only scored two in the second half. Schott finished her Wildcat career by adding eleven points and tying for a team-best six boards and was named to the All-Tournament Team. Even though she is sad that her career at Davidson is finished, Schott believes it was a wonderful season. “For the first time in a few years I can honestly say that the team was always united on the same goal, and we are finally known for our defense,” she said. “I know that we all wanted to make it to the NCAA’s, but I couldn’t have been more proud of a team for their heart and effort.” Callahan agrees that this tournament “was not necessarily an improvement, but rather a testament to the team’s heart.” When all was said and done, the ’Cats won six out of their last ten games, and they showed in the tournament the improvement they made in coming away with close victories. Even with this improvement in tight situations, the most important point to remember about this year’s tournament for the Wildcats is that it provided vital experience for the ten returning players. The ’Cats will be returning a tremendous junior class that has played a huge role in Davidson basketball since their first season. In addition to the five juniors, Coach Watts will also be expecting contributions from the sophomore and freshman classes, all of whom saw playing time this season. Not only did this tournament put the ’Cats in the Southern Conference history books as the first seventh-ranked team to make it to the semifinals, but, as Coach Watts noted, it also provided the team with the fire and experience necessary to “propel them into another post season and summer of hard work.”

Win over Chattanooga highlights big week for men’s tennis
By WEBSTER HARRISON
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team bounced back from two consecutive losses before break by posting three big wins this week. On Monday, the ’Cats stomped the James Madison Dukes by a count of 6-1. In their first outdoor match of the season, the Wildcats started hot, winning two of the three doubles matches and taking the first point of the match. In singles play, junior Rob Haywood notched his seventh win in eight matches and dropped only three games on his way to victory. At number two, Donald Miles started out slowly, but coasted to victory, pulling it out 7-6, 6-0. In the only down moment of the day, Brian Stonestreet lost a close three-setter, losing 6-4 in the third set. Jonathan Britt’s opponent at number four forced him into two tiebreakers, but Britt prevailed in straight sets. At the fifth position, Geoffrey Mullen pulled out a big win after losing the first set, defeating his opponent 3-6, 6-1, 7-5. Russ Burns rounded out the top six with a win, effortlessly beating Colin Malcolm 6-3, 6-1.

In the biggest match of the week, Davidson beat Tennessee Chattanooga for the first time in seven years by a score of 4-2. Mullen called Davidson’s win “the biggest of the season so far and possibly the best win in a couple of years.” In singles, UTC got off to a hot start with Jason Ontog defeating Davidson’s Rob Haywood 6-2, 6-2. Geoffrey Mullen earned Davidson’s second point of the day with a strong victory over Tim Kutschera at the number five position 6-3, 7-5. Jonathan Britt lost a tough match against UTC’s Alex Mabrid at the fourth spot 7-6 (5), 6-3. The match came down to Donald Miles and Brian Stonestreet, who both lost their first sets. After dropping the first set 6-1, Donald Miles changed his game and the complexion of the match. Miles only dropped three games the rest of the match en route to winning 1-6, 6-1, 6-2. The most exciting match of the day belonged to Brian Stonestreet at number three singles. Falling behind one set to none did not seem to bother the junior, who calmly evened the match by taking the second set 6-2. The last set came down to who could hold their serve longer, and Stonestreet broke Knizat’s serve late in the set. He then served out the match and gave the Wildcats their biggest victory in three years.

In its third match of the week, Davidson crushed Franklin and Marshall 7-0, even with their top two players sitting out. Davidson won the doubles point with victories at all three doubles. Because no Wildcat dropped more than six games in his singles match, the singles were over almost as soon as they started. Russ Burns, who didn’t get to finish his match against UTC because the Wildcats had already won, overwhelmed his opponent, winning 6-1, 6-1. These three wins bring Davidson’s men’s tennis record to 7-3, and the team remains undefeated in conference play. The men battle non-conference foe Elon at home at 2 p.m. on March 18.