THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 10, 2003

Staff Editorial

A semester’s worth of holiday gifts

In keeping with the holiday spirit, the Davidsonian takes a look back at the fall semester and offers holiday candy canes and coals to deserving recipients.

Candy canes to SGA for getting the Belk computer labs open 24 hours a day. This long-needed change was by far SGA’s best accomplishment of the fall.

Coals to “bike cop” and his sneaky surveillance tactics.

Candy canes to Dean Marsicano and the RLO elves for refunding the $11 cable TV fee charged to Martin Court residents in light of the shoddy service provided by Adelphia. The symbolic value of the refund is of course more important than getting back the small fee. Although $11 can buy you a meal or two in the Union Cafe.

Coals to Town Police officers for their poor handling of Saturday’s Town Christmas party on Main St. The town closed down Main St. to hold its annual holiday festivities, but didn’t bother to post signs to indicate to students or anyone else an alternate route to Interstate 77.

Dozens of students were seen aimlessly driving in circles around campus and the back roads of Davidson looking for an escape. If the town really wants to improve town-gown relations, it should at least have the courtesy to inform students of this closure well in advance and post clearly marked signs to direct traffic out of town.

Candy canes to the Cat Pack organizers, particularly seniors John Marshall and Elizabeth Redpath, who have worked hard to increase student attendance and spirit at basketball games. The t-shirts for the UNC game were pretty cool.

Coals to the History Department for its seemingly endless torture of seniors trying to finish their theses. Give ‘em a break.

Candy canes to the men’s soccer team for its 15-win season and memorable run to the NCAA Tournament. Coastal Carolina was a talented squad; there’s no shame in that loss.

Coals to the Board of Trustees for staying mum on the Christian requirement. The issue surfaces every few years, but we think it’s again time for the Board to voice an official opinion on it. Keep it or eliminate it, but let’s hear some discussion.

Environmentalists aren’t all violent

It has recently come to my attention that some people on campus are very concerned about the ecoterrorist organization, Earth Liberation Front.

We should be careful not to confuse the urgency of our War on Terrorism abroad with that of domestic terrorism. Even after 9/11, how many people polled last year could say that ecoterrorism was one of their top-five voting concerns? When was the last time it was covered on the nightly news? Conversely, how many people had environmental protection on their top-five?

As a dedicated environmental activist, I can tell you that the ELF is the black sheep of the environmental movement.

Mainstream environmental organizations do not recognize or work with the ELF. The majority of environmentalists don’t condone their use of violence because we understand that morons like the ELF give our opponents an easy target.

Take for example last week’s Veritas, which completely ignored criticism that has been levied against Bush’s energy policy, opting instead to discuss the misdeeds of jaded environmentalists who have removed themselves from political debate after deciding that democracy wasn’t working for them.

I have legitimate grievances with Bush’s “Clear Skies” and “Healthy Forest” initiatives, issues that deserve more attention than the angry environmentalist whackos of the ELF.

Greg Harris ‘05
Vice President of the EAC
(Environmental Action Coalition)

A DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

Editor’s message

Dear Readers:

This marks my final issue as editor of the Davidsonian. I’m stepping aside in the spring. My successor will soon be named.

I would first like to thank my dedicated staff -- Caroline, Colin, Amee, Brandon, David, Derek, Chris, Peter, Mike, the other Peter, Jeff and Laura -- as well as all the writers too numerous to name. Without their commitment, the newspaper wouldn’t be possible.

I also want to thank my predecessors and friends, Jessica Mering ‘03 and Burgin Hardin ‘04 and Mike Anderson ‘02. They each set a fine example for me to follow.

Thanks also to Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrell and Bill Giduz, Director of Media Relations, two fine folks whose patience and professionalism made my job much easier.

I would of course be remiss not to thank the readers -- students, staff, alumni, parents and friends of the College. Your comments and criticism were always appreciated, and please continue to send them to future editors.

Matt Garfield ‘04