THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2003

Gender, from page 1

have “effortless perfection.” One Duke sophomore quoted in Raleigh’s News and Observer said, “Everyone around you is smart, so that’s
not going to get you anywhere.” Women in the Duke study were also dissatisfied with the dating scene. Many women
felt that fraternities dominated the social outlets, which gave men an edge in the social scene. Dating consisted of going
to fraternity parties in large groups, followed by “hook-ups,” spontaneous sexual encounters. This dynamic caused some women concerns about safety
on campus at Duke.

Davidson students expressed many different reactions to this study. Students were questioned in an informal, unscientific survey conducted by the
Davidsonian about Patterson Court, dating, and exercise habits among other issues. 28 respondents—half male, half female, and from different classes—were
asked both general questions about the campus and specific questions about their own lifestyle.

Students were asked if Davidson women thought they had to live up to the model of effortless perfection. Women were
generally split on this issue while men generally did not believe that women felt this pressure. These numbers are much
lower than that found in the Duke study, showing that Davidson students may be less susceptible to this type of
thinking. The fact that women responded affirmatively more often than men suggests that some women do feel this competitive strain
in their relationships.

When asked about Patterson Court, students generally did not think that the fraternities stiflingly dominated the social scene the way
they did at Duke. As for eating houses, students expressed different opinions on whether they were better than sororities at
promoting self-esteem among women. One thing was agreed upon: the self-selection process is healthier than a rush procedure. “You're not
just being judged on appearance, you’re basically assigned to your house,” said Rachael Voyles ’05. “I think it’s good that
we don’t have rush.”

Most men and women expressed dissatisfaction with the dating scene. “Dating? What dating?” asked Haley Acuff ’06, “It’s either girlfriend
and boyfriend or single with your girl and guy friends.” Similarly, most Davidson students believe that there is a double
standard for men and women who hook up.

All of the students surveyed said that they felt safe on campus. This sense of safety most likely has a
lot to do with the Honor Code, which Davidson students take very seriously. “I’m not sure that is a good
thing,” said Sarah Cain Mattingly ’06, “in light of the recent break-ins in Rich, I think we should all be
locking our doors more.” This was in response to several break-ins in the basement of Richardson dormitory that took place
last weekend, when unknown burglars entered dorm rooms and took money. Some of these break-ins took place while students were
in their rooms asleep.

Students were also questioned about their exercise schedule and eating habits. These habits, whether healthy or not, appear to be
very individual to the student, without a clear pattern emerging.

It seems that many people have already been working to minimize gender problems at Davidson. Jessica Zesch ’05 has been
working for the past year to start up the Body Image Support Group. This group is a network of women
who help other students deal with negative self-body images. “We want to make more open discussions about body image, whether
it’s an eating disorder issue, whether it’s compulsively exercising, or whether it’s just discomfort with your body,” said Voyles, who
has been instrumental in getting the group off the ground. The Body Image Support Group has its pager number listed
in all the bathrooms on campus, so anyone can call at any time. They also have a budget for the
first time this semester, so they are working on getting speakers to campus, among other things.

The Gender Resource Coalition also provides resources for students dealing with gender problems. These resources include the health advisors, first
responders, and other counselors who can help students one-on-one. These organizations are definitely a step in the right direction to
correcting gender inequalities. “Davidson is a very perfectionistic community to begin with,” said Voyles, “Coming to Davidson, you’ve chosen to
challenge yourself.” These organizations are challenging traditional gender roles in hope for better relationships at Davidson.

photo by Dorsett Clark

Pre-Vet Society aims to satisfy rising demand for veterinary study

Program may bring vets to campus, form relationship with Humane Society

By Alicia Janos
Staff Writer

Last week SGA approved a Davidson College Pre-Vet Society. The move will help students interested in veterinary medicine better organize
for graduate school. Krista Heiner ’06 spoke to SGA members on behalf of the organization, detailing the need for Pre-Vet
to be “recognized as an on-campus society.” The passage of the charter will enable the society “to provide for the
needs of pre-vet students on campus and present programs thatwill enhance their ability to enter veterinary school,” according to Article
II of the Davidson College Pre-Vet Society Constitution. Such programs include obtaining speakers specialized in various animal studies, planning field
trips to open houses of veterinary schools, and providing direction in fitting in the necessary classes to apply to vet
school. SGA member Alaa’ Odeh ’05, who welcomed the addition of this new society, said that currently, “Pre-Vet has very
disorganized advising and society. Since pre-vet has a lot more requirements than pre-med... it needs to be more organized, and
probably more organized than pre-med.”

Pam Hay, Associate Professor of Biology and Pre-Vet advisor for six years, said that both veterinary school and medical school
“have the same basic requirements (Chem through Organic, two semesters of physics, and two semesters of Intro Bio), but the
Pre-Vet requirements usually also require genetics, biochemistry, and statistics, as well as several hours of shadowing a vet. It does
vary from school to school so people need to check with each individual school for their specific requirements.” Odeh confirmed
that saying, “The pre-vet track is very difficult and students on it have to be very focused in order to
get all their requirements in on time.”

When asked why he voiced his desire to pass the charter, SGA President Charles Washington ’04 said, “I knew that
we really needed one,” a common response. The fact that there is not one uniform path that must be followed
in obtaining the necessary course requirements for Pre-Vet students, but merely specific classes that must be taken, emphasized the need
for an on-campus society. The passing of the charter this past Thursday “will allow us to have the option of
bringing in a panel of vets and at least offer them pizza for their time, help us to make a
trip to the zoo to observe what a zoo vet does on a day-to-day basis, and other projects,” said Hay.
She hopes for the Pre-Vet Society to “establish a volunteer program with the Humane Society or Raptor Center and bring
in a panel of veterinarians to discuss options in Vet. Medicine” in the future. Currently, there are between ten and
15 Pre-Vet students who have attended the first meeting this semester.

Textbooks, from page 1

According to the NY Times, “At one prestigious university, a sophomore imported 30 biology books from England this fall and
sold them outside his classroom for less than the campus-bookstore price, netting a $1,200 profit.” Others have skirted high prices
by sharing texts, Xeroxing, using e-reserves, suggesting textbook rental systems, or simply not purchasing the books at all. The recent
explosion of textbook importing is partly due to a 1998 Supreme Court decision, allowing Americans to reimport texts sold abroad
by American publishers at cheaper prices. According to the NY Times, “...federal copyright law does not protect American manufacturers from
having the products they arrange to sell overseas at a discount shipped back for sale in the United States.”

In addition to losing business, textbook importation has caused many college bookstores to come in conflict with various publishing companies.
Through e-mail, Gwen Gardner, Manager of the Davidson College Bookstore and President of the National Association of College Stores (NACS),
commented on the issue. “As an association, NACS is an advocate for all college stores. At a meeting with several
publishers’ presidents last year, we asked them why they felt this was fair to our students. They believe that development
and marketing costs are covered by direct sales in the U.S. They told us that 10 percent of their sales
were international and that for humanitarian reasons they thought we should understand their sales into third world countries. We responded
that Germany, France, and the UK are not third world countries, and that our students should not have to bear
this burden.”

Despite efforts to eliminate price differentials, many publishing companies maintain that textbook prices must remain consistent with market conditions in
different countries. Gardner commented, “During the last year, our Board issued a resolution asking the publishers to stop the practice
of different pricing for international books at our expense, but the communications have stalled with little progress.” When asked why
textbook prices have increased so much recently, Gardner cited the economy, printing and distribution costs, growing market expenses, intense competition
between publishers, demand for better color and printing quality, and bundling as some factors. Gardner also added, “All bookstores base
their price on the price set by the publisher/distributor with a margin added to cover expenses to sell (salaries, postage
to get the books, rent, etc.). As this is the required part of college store’s inventory, most make the least
margin on textbooks of any category sold. College bookstores are generally there to support the academic mission of the college
by providing all necessary course materials... not to make a large profit.”
