5

Movie Review

‘Spirited Away:’ an unusual, extraordinary experience

By Linny BaALpwin
Staff Columnist

For all the talk about illicit campaigning for Academy Awards, and some truly heinous winners in recent years (Eminem? “Gladiator?”), once in a while an Oscar actually goes to a movie that deserves one. Not just a good film, but one so unusual and extraordinary that watching it gives you goosebumps, one you immediately know you have to see again the moment you finish it the first time around.

“Spirited Away,” this year’s winner of the Best Animated Feature Film Oscar, is that kind of movie. To borrow a line from A&L editor Derek Loh, it was easily the best movie nominated for anything this year (which, sadly, makes its triumph somewhat surprising). The film is the latest work from the studio of Hayao Miyazaki, a prolific Japanese animator who is apparently seen with an almost god-like reverence by the rest of the world’s animators. Its “Alice in Wonderland”-like tale follows a girl named Chihiro, who with her parents mistakenly trespasses in a realm where humans are not allowed. Chihiro must seek employment at a strange bathhouse for demons and gods in order to save her parents from their untimely transformation into giant pigs (yes, you read that correctly).

Along the way, of course, she meets a host of unusual and memorable characters, including a giant baby named Boh, a swarm of sootballs with arms and legs, a river god, and a witch named Zeniba who looks like a cross between a Troll doll and a Victorian cameo etching. It’s a weird, wild story, and a truly rewarding moviegoing experience.

Davidson actually screened the film twice on Jan. 31, and I attended with high hopes. I had only seen the Japanese version (subtitled in English) and was eager to see how the English dubbing worked. I was not disappointed in the movie — the English dubbing is flawless, the dialogue crisp, and the animation as gorgeous as I remembered.

I was, however, surprised to realize that most of the audience didn’t share my enthusiasm for the movie. I was honestly horrified to overhear the following comment: “I think that was, like, the worst movie I’ve seriously ever seen. It made, like, no sense.” I racked my brain trying to explain the discrepancy between my experience and theirs, and finally decided that it might be insufficient preparation for the film. I suspect that some people may have come in expecting “Beauty and the Beast” and been thrown for a loop when a character named No-Face devours an inconvenient talking frog (only to expel him projectile-style later). No matter how brilliant “Citizen Kane” may be, of course you’re going to think it’s weird if you were expecting “Shakespeare in Love.”

So, in the hopes that more people might be prompted to seek out the film, here are my hints for getting the most out of your “Spirited Away” experience.

* Observe the artwork. Miyazaki still draws all of his frames by hand, and each one is absolutely gorgeous. Even if you end up detesting the plot, characters, and script, you should still be able to appreciate the beauty of the images.

* Suspend disbelief. As noted above, “Spirited Away” is very similar to an “Alice in Wonderland” or a “Harry Potter” or a “Wizard of Oz” — the logic of the movie’s world does not coincide with our own. Be prepared for some weirdness, and enjoy the wonderful imagination it takes to come up with stuff like this.

* Expect a cultural barrier. Unlike American films, Japanese movies are not afraid of sentimentality or sadness. Love and loyalty are not portrayed with irony, but are treated with agentle seriousness. Contrast this with most Disney films, where any suggestion of powerful emotion is quickly undercut by a quotable comment from a supporting character before the audience can become uncomfortable. Approach the movie on its own terms; don’t try to force it through our super-ironic American film-viewing paradigm. You’re probably asking why you should bother to see the movie if you have to work so hard to enjoy it. The short answer: it’s worth it. If you allow yourself to become immersed in Miyazaki’s artwork and the strange, sentimental tale he weaves, you’re in for an amazing experience. “Spirited Away” is now playing at Birkdale.

Farrell’s ‘Phone Booth’ gets boring at times

For weeks last October, an unknown sniper struck down innocent victims throughout D.C., Maryland, and Virginia, leaving citizens in a state of panic. The nation watched as the manhunt for the killer spread across the country, eventually leading to the capture of not one, but two snipers. The new thriller “Phone Booth” starring Colin Farrell and directed by Joel Schumacher replicates the fear and voyeuristic interest of those several weeks into an unbalanced, 82-minute mixture of boredom and brilliance.

Stu Shepard (Farrell) is an up-and-coming public relations man in high society Manhattan. He makes a living selling lies. He lies for his own benefit and for that of his clients. He also lies to cover up those lies. However, his deceptive ways are about to catch up with him as Stu walks into a public phone booth and into the crosshairs of a sniper’s rifle. Stu curiously answers a call to the phone booth. Answering the phone, Stu is trapped by the sniper, who seeks to publicly punish Stu for his life of lies. Eventually, the sniper’s voice becomes angrier and more willing to kill Stu or anyone who interferes.

The plot offers some exciting sequences, but the film’s reliance on talk rather than action leaves it boring at times. Fortunately, Colin Farrell’s performance and Joel Schumacher’s direction make up for “Phone Booth”’s lack of action. Farrell’s part required him to have an emotional breakdown, from arrogant businessman to a weeping man, curled in the corner of the phone booth, regretting his past life. Farrell, the Ireland native and rising Hollywood star, plays the emotional extremes believably. On the other side of the phone is Kiefer Sutherland, the unseen sniper. His menacing voice and laughter are certain to send chills up your back.

While these performances are important to the film’s success, Joel Schumacher’s direction brings all the elements together. Schumacher uses several techniques to comment on America’s fascination with crisis, which we watch from the comfort of our own home on CNN, Fox News, or any of our dozen or so news channels available today. In the high-paced lives of New Yorkers and many other Americans, moments of crisis motivate citizens to stop and watch in fascination, as Stu Shepard’s struggle becomes a prime-time news event. As the film is primarily set in the phone booth and the surrounding blocks, any phone call Stu makes is shown in a smaller screen, similar to a TV. The visual structure Schumacher uses represents America’s media-driven society, but the film never explicitly offers an answer as to whether that social existence is negative or not.

“Phone Booth,” originally set to open November 15 of last year but withheld after obvious similarities with the Washington, D.C. sniper attacks, was overall worth the five-month delay. Fine acting and directing, along with intriguing social commentary, make “Phone Booth” a sometimes slow, but enjoyable night at the movies.

20th Century Fox