4 | THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

Annual Fund giving rate

Challenge set by anonymous donor met for $100,000

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Record-breaking alumni participation has helped Davidson’s Annual Fund reach new heights. For the fiscal year 2002-2003, the Annual Fund raised $6.1 million thanks to an unprecedented 62 percent alumni participation rate.

The Annual Fund is composed of four components: the living endowment, unrestricted scholarships, Davidson Athletic Foundation, and Classical 89.9 WDAV. Money from the Annual Fund is used in a variety of ways ranging from scholarship funds, athletic resources, and library books, to facility improvements and faculty salaries.

Because the Annual Fund money is unrestricted, the funds can be applied to the college’s immediate needs, providing even more opportunities for Davidson students.

Director of the Annual Fund Elizabeth Kiser said via e-mail, “Davidson students, who currently pay full room and board, still do not cover the entire cost of their education at Davidson. Alumni gifts to the Annual Fund help close the gap.”

In addition to the generosity of Davidson alumni, student callers also play an important role in the Fund’s growth. Student callers are responsible for contacting alumni and encouraging them to donate money. Aside from making telephone calls and handwriting notes, student callers maintain the connection between alumni and current students.

“When you talk to the alumni, you are representing the college,” said student caller Michelle Levin-Crowley ’06. “As a scholarship student, I find it rewarding to talk to the people who help fund my education. It makes it more personal.”

In particular, one anonymous alumnus this year invited all alumni to contribute to the Annual Fund by promising to donate $100,000 if 60 percent of alumni participated. Davidson graduates rose to the challenge, and in doing so have drawn the attention of magazines like “US News & World Report” (see related story, cover). According to their latest edition, Davidson ranks second in the country for alumni giving, trailing Amherst by just 45 donors.

Among other factors like academics, faculty, and selectivity, alumni giving has contributed to Davidson’s ranking as the number seven liberal arts college in the United States. “Donating to the Annual Fund is considered a measure of alumni satisfaction to magazines like ‘US News & World Report.’ It weighs heavily in their overall rankings,” said Kiser.

Rankings aside, Kiser also attributes the Annual Fund’s growth to the enthusiasm Davidson alumni share for their Alma mater. “Davidson alumni care about Davidson and recognize that the Annual Fund will help provide current Davidson students with the ‘Davidson Experience’ that they hold so dear,” Kiser said.

the average college student spends $287/month on discretionary items

1600 Davidson Students x $287 Dollars per month = $459,200

Want Your Share?

Advertise in The Davidsonian

Endowment declines $10M

Returns back in the black following two years of losses

By RUCHI TURAKHIA
Staff Writer

After two years of negative annual investment returns, the returns on Davidson College’s endowment are turning up. According to R. Burton Hudson, Director of Investments and Financial Planning, the value of the endowment was $283,934,019 on June 30. That compares with roughly $292 million in June 2002, down from an all-time high of $338 million.

“2003 has been a positive year for us,” Hudson said. “We are outperforming most other schools. According to the ranking [by the National Association of College and University Business Officers] we rank in the top quartile of schools in terms of endowment returns.”

The endowment decreased in value during the 2001 and 2002 fiscal years due to stock market decline, according to Hudson. These were the first two negative years since 1987.

“The endowment’s current value is almost twice of what it was in 1995, when I first came to Davidson,” said Robert Norfleet, Director of Investments and Financial Planning. “At that time, the endowment was worth roughly $126,000,000. This increase in value is due to enhanced investment returns throughout the late 90s: the returns have been around 20 percent.”

Hudson said, in relation to other schools, “we look very good.”

“Even though our returns are not as high as they were at one point, other schools would enjoy having the returns we do.”

Although other areas for which the endowment money is used may suffer, the lower returns will not affect the amount of financial aid Davidson gives its students.

“We have committed amounts of financial aid, which aren’t affected by changes in the endowment’s value,” said Nancy Cable, Vice President and Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. “If there is a loss, it is made up by other areas.”

In addition to providing scholarship money, the endowment is used for a variety of other things, including funding professorships and providing operating endowments for the various buildings.

The bulk of the endowment’s money comes from alumni donations, according to Kristin Bradberry, Vice President of College Relations, although various foundations and fundraisers contribute to the endowment as well.

The Career Services Office is sponsoring a Career Fair

Come to the fair...

Wednesday, September 17 Noon - 3:30 PM Alvarez Union Brown Atrium

Participants include:

American Express Financial
Charlotte Sister Cities
Gaston County Schools
Milliken & Company
Summit Properties
United States Army
The Vanguard Group
Teach for America
Charlotte Mecklenburg Police
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Mayor’s International Cabinet
Peace Corps
United States Navy
Wachovia Securities
NC Blumenthal Performing Arts Center
Davidson College Human Resources
Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing
University of Georgia School of International and Public Affairs
University of South Carolina Moore School of Business
Wake Forest Babcock School of Business
Western Carolina Research and Graduate Studies
Winthrop University Graduate Studies

A complete list of participants is available at <http://www2.davidson.edu/studentlife/cs/cs_careerfair903.asp>

Contact Jeff at (704) 894-6743 for details