2 - THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Fall dance recitals pack Duke
Two-night run sells 947 tickets, raises total of $1,906

By RACHEL EGAN
Staff Writer

The Dance Ensemble sold 947 tickets for its two shows Friday and Saturday nights, raising an expected $1,906 in revenue.
The show has come a long way since it began nearly two decades ago. When the Dance Troupe got its
charter in 1986, it consisted of half a dozen dancers, a makeshift studio, and some homemade costumes. Paulette Kurani, a
student dancer, scheduled classes and performances, but some years nothing happened at all. The Troupe struggled along for the next
nine years, hampered by a lack of interest and even less funding until 1995, when Carrie van Deest and Erin
Steffensmeirer, two student dancers, decided to take action to pull the group together. They began The Neglected Artists, recruiting acts
from poets, singers, and other “neglected” performers to fill in the gaps of their dance performances. This innovative decision caused
audiences and interest in the Troupe to increase dramatically. The name changed to Dance Ensemble in 1999. The Union Board
took over The Neglected Artists, and audiences grew even more. Just before the Duke Performance Hall was built, Dance Ensemble
drew such numbers that people were standing at the back of Hodson Hall, the Ensemble’s previous performance hall, and on
furniture outside of the Hall to watch the shows.

When the Duke Performance Hall was completed, and the Ensemble began performing there in spring 2001, they faced a larger
issue. The technical costs of performing in Hodson Hall were negligible — “the sound system was basically someone sitting offstage
and pressing a button on a tape player,” said Jan Scott Swetenburg ’04, treasurer of the Dance Ensemble. But in
Duke, the tech costs were around $3000 — more than the Dance Ensemble’s entire original yearly budget. The next year
the Ensemble asked for a much larger budget, and the administration met them halfway. The ATC gave the Ensemble a
bigger budget and suggested that the Ensemble charge admission to their performances.

At first, the Ensemble was hesitant to agree. “We had always wanted our performances to be a gift to the
community,” said President Betsy Pinchak ’04. In the end, the Ensemble decided to charge a small admission to cover the
technical costs, so the regular budget can cover costume and other costs. The ATC has been noticeably flexible and reasonable
with the group. “I think they look favorably on the growth of the Ensemble and the fact that we took
their advice,” said Swetenburg. Despite previous problems with asking for a larger budget for costume reasons, the ATC seems now
to recognize that the Ensemble has been extremely prudent with their funds. “Everything we ask for we use,” said Pinchak.
Dance Ensemble is expanding its role as the only dance performance group on campus by adding master classes as well
as instructor classes, due to student demand.

POLICE

11/7 Patterson Court
Larceny of Cell Phone
Unknown person(s) willfully removed a tan Verizon Samsung cell phone from student’s purse. Total loss is estimated at $200. Still
under investigation.

11/8 Irwin Dorm
Aid to the Ill
Student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center for possible alcohol-related health issues.

11/8 Building F
Larceny of a Bicycle
Unknown person(s) willfully removed an unlocked, unregistered bike from the bike rack in front of Building F. The bike is
described as a Next Power Climber, dark maroon in color. Estimated value is $75.

11/11 Hart Parking Lot
Damage to Property - Case SolvedA Toyota Corolla parked in the Hart parking lot. Students with information about campus crimes
can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

Wednesday, Nov 20

Head of pre-med program receives national health post

Students praise Putnam for deep commitment to College

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer

Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, Director of Pre-Medical Advisory at Davidson, was recently elected to a six-year term as president of the
National Association of Advisors for the Health Profession (NAAHP), a group that organizes conventions and deals with issues pertaining to
advising in the allied health professions. In 1993, Putnam started the Health Profession Advisors of North Carolina organization that was
later incorporated into the NAAHP. The organization proved to be instrumental in enhancing the prestige of the Davidson pre-medical program
with the nation’s medical schools.

In 2003, 22 people who survived the Davidson Pre-Medical Advisory Committee (PAC) applied to medical schools. 20 of these applicants
were accepted into medical schools, including some of the most prestigious institutions in the nation. Dave Shelburne ’04 said, “When
I went to interview for med schools, Putnam’s name came up a lot. Dr. Putnam knows a lot of people.
He definitely gives a name for Davidson, and his signature behind your name for med schools means a lot.”

Putnam notes that for most classes there is an 85 percent or above acceptance rate into medical school, though it
is difficult to calculate an exact percentage since students are continually in the process of applying and thus the numbers
are constantly changing. Jennifer Swails ’04 is a Davidson pre-med who just received acceptance into medical school and is still
waiting to hear from other schools. She said, “He’s very honest with you about what you need for your application.
If you need better grades, he’s going to tell you. If he thinks you have a weak reason for wanting
to be a doctor, he’ll tell you.” But she added that he helps the students tremendously throughout the process and
is “really your biggest advocate.”

In 1999 Putnam was popularly elected as President of the Southeast Region of the NAAHP and went on to serve
on the National Board of Directors in 2002. As President-elect from 2004 to 2006, Putnam will be responsible for organizing
a speaker series to be held in Washington, D.C. The convention will host various medical school deans from programs such
as Stanford and Washington University along with speakers on the MD/PhD programs and on the financial debt associated with funding
medical education.

When asked how he plans to balance his advising duties at the college with his new national position, Putnam said,
“I work seven days a week... I love what I do.” George Edwards ’04 confirms Putnam’s dedication, “I would not
be applying to medical school if it wasn’t for him because of some complications with my application. He truly cares
about his students. He’ll tell you that he loves getting up every day just because of the students.”

Since he came to Davidson in 1973, Putnam has taught various anatomy and even Victorian literature classes while serving on
the Pre-Medical Advisory Committee. In 1992 he took on the leadership of the college’s pre-medical program.

Education at Work
Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and learning in Philadelphia.
