The BD First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003 VOLUME 95, NUMBER 3

Fitness Center controversy

Students in the Union now cycle to an uncertain beat. The College’s music policy has raised questions about the rights
of students.

Gym users clash over ‘raucous’ workout music

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer

The fitness center in Alvarez Union has become the site of a silent battle of the bands as students, faculty,
and administrators debate the line between censorship and respect. A sign by the entrance to the center reads: “Be considerate
when playing music (content, language, and volume),” but Tim Stroud, Assistant Director of Operations, reports that there have been many
“complaints regarding the type of music and the volume of the music being played,” not only by students but also
by faculty and administrators who use the center.

The Union fitness center has a policy that allows users of the facility to bring in their own music and
play it on a stereo located in an open area of the center. The goal of such a system is
to allow a certain sense of freedom and thus encourage working out; however, the differences in musical tastes along with
the occasionally offensive lyrics or loud tone of the music have been the cause of much controversy. In early spring,
the CD player was taken out in response to several complaints. Stroud said he received eight to 10 complaints, “mostly
about the content, the profanity and the language. The volume was the issue sometimes.” The player was returned, along with
the sign, in mid-summer. Since that time, Stroud has received several more complaints. He also expressed concern about the volume,
saying, “Most of the students will go work out between 4 and 6 p.m. in the evenings, and they really
like to crank the volume up. The sound system is not intended to play at such a high decibel,” but
rather to provide background music.

Dr. Cynthia Lewis, a regular user of the center, said, “Volume is an issue especially when [the music] is pretty
raucous, but I don’t think there should be music police. I think people should be able to listen to a
variety...the problem is when one student comes in and assumes that everyone wants to listen to it.” Professor of Political
Science Dr. Mary Thornberry teaches courses in Constitutional Law and Civil Liberties. She said, “There is always a difficulty in
letting any person censor anyone’s lyrics or music styles.” Thornberry believed the administration’s response of posting the sign was a
good step. “It’s asking students to monitor themselves [and] that can be difficult to do. You never know who might
be offended by something. The notion of where the limits are on that depends on common sense, but we would
hope Davidson students would have common sense.” She drew parallels to the Code of Spectator Conduct and restrictions on noise
in residence halls.

Some students report that the type of music...

see Fitness, page 2

Group protests Patriot Act

Town of Davidson may soon join in condemning policy

ByAMEE PATEL News Editor

President Bush’s calls for increased homeland security and broader police powers through the USA PATRIOT Act have left a bitter
aftertaste for members of the College community and Town Council. Hoping to raise awareness of the Act and clarify the
role of local police in town, faculty members and students will join the Town of Davidson in writing a resolution
reaffirming their constitutional rights.

The USA PATRIOT Act was passed by Congress and signed into law by President Bush on Oct. 26, 2001. It
expands the powers of the executive branch in order to fight the new crime of “domestic terrorism.” In a speech
delivered on Sept. 10, 2003, in Quantico, Va., Bush said the Act, “tore down the walls that blocked America’s intelligence
and law enforcement officials from sharing intelligence.”

Roughly 160 cities and towns around the country have voiced opposition to the Act, claiming it sacrifices civil rights in
the name of national security, and have passed resolutions expressing strong disapproval of the Patriot Act. Davidson may soon be
added to this list.

‘Just Peace’ proposes resolution

At the Davidson Town Council meeting on Sept. 9, several members of the Davidson College faculty and staff addressed their
concerns about the Patriot Act. Dr. Campbell, Associate Professor of Biology and founder of “Just Peace,” a group formerly known
as Peace Teach-in, spoke in favor of drafting a resolution similar to those of other towns. Campbell and members of
the College community had expressed concerns about the law since its inception. “We were very concerned how the USA PATRIOT
Act conflicts with the Constitution.”

See Patriot Act, page 3

Students debate U.S. policy

Intervention, nation-building top list of foreign policy concerns

By KATIE PFEIFFER Staff Writer

Students gathered in the Union on Sunday evening to discuss U.S. intervention in Afghanistan, Colombia, North Korea, and Iraq, and
to debate the most appropriate policy for each case. The four debates, consisting of four-minute position statements by each deliberator,
not only sparked a vibrant reaction from the audience but also revealed a deep interest in the relationship between politics
and values.

Chris Hallett ’05 kicked things off against Ward Long ’06 in a lively debate on policy in Afghanistan. Hallett argued
that the United States presence there is a result of international consensus, citing the presence of some 3,000 soldiers from
the same Germany that so vigorously opposed the Iraqi war. He praised the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and Hamid
Karzai’s reconstruction effort, portraying a country well on its way to putting the pieces back together just two years after
concluding a deadly 20-year era of war and destruction.

Long painted a very different picture of Afghanistan, with a contrast so sharp one could wonder if they described the
same country. He focused on terror attacks and the reconstitut-

See Debate, page 3

Hurricane Isabel is expected to make landfall somewhere on the N.C. coast by Thursday afternoon. Forecasters say the storm will
likely bring rain and gusty winds to Davidson and surrounding areas.

SPORTS: Fillnow takes first in cross country meet

Cook takes reins at quarterback, but football drops another

SPORTS, PAGES 11 & 12

Say a sweet goodbye to summer...
