10 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

Men’s hoops opponents include nation’s elite programs
Duke, UNC, Georgetown, Seton Hall highlight this year’s slate

By Matt GARFIELD
Editor

Practice doesn’t start for another five weeks, and the season’s first game is still more than two months away.

But take a quick look at the men’s basketball schedule, and it’s already clear the Wildcats’ 2003-04 campaign has a chance to be special.

Davidson will face several of the most storied programs in college basketball in what Matt Matheny says might be the toughest non-conference schedule for any mid-major team in the country.

“I think it’s by far one of the toughest,” said Matheny, who was given the title of associate head coach during the off-season. “We just want to give ourselves an opportunity to make a splash on the national scene.”

A quick rundown of the highlights:

- The team travels to Texas Tech to take on Bobby Knight and the Red Raiders in the Preseason NIT on Nov. 18. The game will be televised nationally on ESPN. Knight’s notorious temper got him fired from Indiana two seasons ago, but the man known as “The General” has won three national titles in 30 years as a coach.

- The Wildcats return home for their second game to face North Carolina on Nov. 24 at the Charlotte Coliseum in a contest that could break the Davidson “home” attendance record of 11,666 set two years ago against Duke.

It'll be Roy Williams’ second game as coach of the Tar Heels, and his first in Charlotte, a city with thousands of UNC alumni.

Matheny says it’s not clear whether the North Carolina series will extend beyond this season.

But Williams has already hinted that he’s reluctant to play in-state opponents, similar to his mentor, former Tar Heels coach Dean Smith.

- Four games later, Davidson will travel to the MCI Center in Washington, DC to play Georgetown, a once-proud Big East program that suffered numerous defections over the off-season. This might be the Wildcats’ best chance for an attention-grabbing non-conference win.

- Another trip north just before Christmas will take Davidson to the 24,000-seat Meadowlands, officially known as Continental Airlines Arena, where the team will face Seton Hall.

Both Georgetown and Seton Hall will visit Belk Arena next year to complete the two “home-and-home” series.

- One week later, the Wildcats travel to Cameron Indoor Stadium to play Duke in a rematch of last year’s closer-than-expected 95-80 Blue Devils victory.

Oddly enough, the game is at 4 p.m. on a Monday afternoon to accommodate the ESPN broadcast.

The schedule is ambitious, but Matheny says the Wildcats’ roster—a combination of experienced returnees and talented newcomers—is as deep as any he can recall at Davidson.

A trio of sophomores—Brendan Winters, Ian Johnson and Matt McKillop—got heavy playing time last season and should be even better this year, said Matheny.

But the key to the season might be the play of three others who didn’t play at all last season.

- Logan Kosmalski, a 6-8 forward who transferred from Baylor and is a possible all-conference candidate.

- Kenny Grant, a point guard who transferred from Lafayette who might draw comparisons to the dependable, if not flashy, Davidson point guards of the past.

- Nick Booker, an athletic 6-7 wingman who sat out last year to concentrate on academics. Booker was a key contributor in the team’s run to the NCAA Tournament two seasons ago.

“Versatility has been a key to our really good teams. I think we’re pretty versatile this year,” said Matheny.

“It’s an experienced group of players. I think we’ll be as deep as we’ve ever been. It’s going to be a challenge to see how quickly the guys can gel.

The schedule doesn’t allow for much breathing room, so they need to gel quickly.”

Following the non-conference season, the Wildcats will open play as a member of the realigned South Division of the Southern Conference, joining Charleston, Furman, Wofford, The Citadel and Georgia Southern.

They’ll attempt to erase the bitter memory of last year’s shocking season-ending 66-60 tournament loss to VMI, a team the Wildcats had beaten by 35 points less than a week earlier.

The Wildcats’ non-conference schedule includes games against legendary head coaches Bobby Knight, Roy Williams and Mike Krzyzewski.

Three Division III opponents also are on the schedule.

Nov. 18 Preseason NIT @ Texas Tech
TBD Preseason NIT- U Mass/ St. Francis
Nov. 24 UNC @ Charlotte Coliseum
Nov. 29 Rhode Island College
Dec. 1 @ C of C
Dec. 3 Hampton
Dec. 6 @ Georgetown
Dec. 11 @ Charlotte
Dec. 13 Haverford
Dec. 19 Clarkson
Dec. 22 @ Seton Hall
Dec. 29 @ Duke
Jan. 3 Iona
Jan. 6 The Citadel
Jan. 10 @ UTC
Jan. 13 WCU
Jan. 17 @ Wofford
Jan. 24 Elon
Jan. 27 @ GSU
Jan. 31 UNCG
Feb. 3 @ The Citadel
Feb. 7 Charleston
Feb. 10 @ Furman
Feb. 14 Georgia Southern
Feb. 18 Wofford
Feb. 24 @ Appalachian State
Feb. 28 Furman
March 3-6 Southern Conference Tourney