- Staff Editorial
Does the Honor Code work too well?

Last week’s incident down the hill—an unauthorized man entering a woman’s dorm room—was a wake-up call for many of us.

More doors have been locked on campus in the past week, and, hopefully, people are being more vigilant about who enters buildings.

It’s easy to say that security needs to be increased down the hill. Last year, a rash of car break-ins in the satellite parking lot prompted Campus Police to install surveillance equipment, lock the gate, and increase patrols in the area.

Increased patrols and security cameras are worth police consideration for the entire sophomore apartment area. We are the first post-Columbine college generation, and the openness of Davidson’s campus can be a bit disconcerting.

Cameras and cops, of course, can only do so much. Stories of Davidson students losing their belongings when, on a vacation or trip home, they leave laptops and luggage unattended may be the stuff of campus legend.

The fact remains, though, that the Honor Code breeds a sense of complacency unsuited to the “real world.”

The same applies to attitudes towards visitors on campus. At our polite Southern school, where everyone smiles and says hello, the idea of closing a door in someone’s face is pretty abhorrent.

Our etiquette, however, is inconsistent. We hold doors for strangers but throw trash on the ground, in stairwells, and in elevators. We smile at prospective students but resist reaching out to classmates.

A backpack left in the Union will be there nine hours later, but on many weekends, damaged public property is left littered across the lawn. We pledge our papers but lie to our friends.

The standards set forth by the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility are working on a superficial level. A sense of ownership of this school and its values needs to be internalized.

Rather than holding a door or turning a blind eye to vandalism out of “politeness,” we need to take an active role in both securing and supporting the campus.

Editor in Chief
Matt Garfield

Managing Editor
Caroline Hauser

News Editors
Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll

Perspectives Editor
David Crow

When is protest OK?

Last week, a fellow student named Dave Francis sent in a letter from abroad in Spain. In it, he described an anti-war protest that he witnessed there as one motivated by fashion.

Unfortunately, he made the mistake of lumping all of the protestors into a latte-drinking straw-man. Doing so demonstrates a clear lack of understanding of European political culture, as it simply ignores the political and moral reasons for their protest. It also raises an important question—when is protest legitimate?

The right to protest is cherished by most Americans, though seldom exercised.

Those who protested the Vietnam War faced criticism very similar to that offered by Mr. Francis, yet it is “obvious” to him that the Vietnam protests were of a different quality: they were legitimate. They protested for years to end that war, yet to this day “hippie” is a dirty word.

Are the protests of today not legitimate?

Protests are being made throughout Europe by people who prefer an international containment strategy to the ideology of pre-emptive action. Europeans firmly believe in multilateral cooperation and the importance of international institutions.

Indeed, this belief has become an integral part of their culture ever since they saw their continent destroyed by the prevalence of unilateral, nationalist ideology earlier in the twentieth century.

For our own sake, we should all strive to initiate a new fashion trend—better understanding between Europeans and Americans.

Mario Prohasky ‘05 & Greg Harris ‘05

Did panel represent all points of view?

Kudos to the faculty panel who last week presented a most informative discussion concerning various issues related to the conflict in Iraq and to the students who ignored the beautiful weather outside to explore perspectives on this timely issue.

Unfortunately for any effort on the part of the organizers to present a balanced program, seven of the eight panelists (88 percent) opposed the war.

Meanwhile, upwards of eight out of 10 Americans profess support for the war.

Matt Merrell ’84

Clarification: Last week’s letter about protests should have been attributed to Dave Francis ’04.