The Great American Smoke-Out: a personal and important decision

THE STUDENT HEALTH ADVISORS: Kristin Ahearn '05, Kim Newton Health Advisor

Who likes the smell of smoke? Be honest... it just doesn’t smell pleasant. When you snuggle up to the significant
other, partner, or friend, do you really want a whiff of the Marlborough man?

As a North Carolinian, I find it difficult to define my feelings regarding tobacco. It has and, as long as
I can see, will always be a part of the North Carolina culture. It offers countless jobs across the state.
My area of Eastern North Carolina is one of the leading producers of tobacco. There are a number of tobacco
barns near my house, and I don’t even live in a small rural town. Replaced by machines, these unused barns
speckle the entire state. This plant has fueled the economy of my state and indirectly helped to fund my high
school education.

Tobacco has affected my life in some very drastic ways, too. I have had the unpleasant experience of watching several
family members suffer from smoking-related diseases. I have had the privilege of having a grandmother who quit smoking for me
and my sister. Smoking represents many negative things to me. While my reaction is personal, I wish that more students
would realize that smoking is dangerous. It may not be dangerous now but in the future it will be. Our
generation is one of the first to see grandparents and loved ones die of tobacco-related diseases. These are real outcomes
of our current behaviors. When inhaling something makes you cough, your body is saying, “Not a smart idea, Buddy.”

Not only can smoking affect our own well-being, but it is also linked to low birth weights in infants, which
puts children at great risk for developing health problems. Smoking is a personal decision. A cigarette break is often a
time to forget about your studies, yourselves, your friends. It can be a welcomed escape. You may do it to
relax or only when you drink, but these times still represent dependence. Try going a day or a few hours
without a cigarette. It is hard, but no harder than fighting cancer or struggling with emphysema or dealing with the
ramifications of low birth weight on an infant.

Next Wednesday, Nov. 19, is the Great American Smoke-Out. I encourage all Davidson students to think seriously about smoking and
how it can affect them. Nov. 19 is a day when the whole campus can support those who wish to
quit smoking. Smoking affects us all; not only those who smoke, but also those who don’t.

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18

WILDCAT RED DAY (wear red and come to the union: SGA NIGHT FREE ICE CREAM AND PRIZES!!! WATCH DAVIDSON TAKE
ON TEXAS TECH “THE GENERALS WILL BE THERE TO SING THE FIGHT SONG AT HALFTIME” THE BAR WILL BE OPEN
ON THE CATWALK

Do you read the Davidsonian?

By Cannon Hoppe Staff Writer

One of my friends, a Texan who will remain nameless, said of Pat Green, “He’s sold-out, dude. He’s gone Nashville-mainstream.”
Maybe, but she hasn’t listened to his new album. My love affair with Pat Green...began way back in high school.
Since his 1995 debut “Dancehall Dreamer,” Green has gathered a honky-tonk college crowd that recently has crossed the Texas border
to reach California and the Southeast. Within the past two years, Green signed with Universal Records in New York City
and received national recognition. Some fans, like my friend, claim that Green has sold out and joined the heartless mainstream
country music regime that is Nashville. However, I believe that Green remains within his own echelon that is neither pop-country
nor parallel with famous Texas music legends: Willie Nelson, George Strait, Jerry Jeff, Robert Earl Keen, or Walt Wilkins. True,
those Texas legends are influential, but Green has developed his own voice and style. “Wave on Wave” is the artist’s
second Universal Records album. Green was wary of signing with a major label because he wanted to preserve his artistic
autonomy and follow the career paths of the real deal: Willie, Waylon, and other country music legends. Signing with Universal
could have compromised his original rebellion against the cliché. Fortunately, Universal Records has given Green a larger audience and maintained
his originality. “Wave on Wave” is cheery, poetic, depressing, chaotic, and impressively instrumental.

Wednesday, November 12, 2003

A tidal ‘Wave’ of country

Green wrote or co-wrote twelve of the thirteen songs and includes musicians such as Ray Wylie Hubbard, Walt Wilkins, and
Willie Nelson. The album is nothing like a flashy, overproduced Nashville Kenny-Tim-Toby-McGraw-Keith album. “Wave on Wave” is Green’s bold leap
into a broader musical palette that blends electric and acoustic instruments, haunts his listeners, and riles them up all at
once. The title track has shadows of Nashville, but its effortless rush of emotions, rippling electric guitar picks, and distinct
violin invite his audience into his distinct Texas album. This is not another collection of “beer-tacos-and-road-trips” ballads. Green’s poetic talent
manifests itself in lines such as, “and the girl she was dandelion beautiful/Damn, she was beautiful.” This skill is especially
apparent in the mandolin-led “If I Was the Devil,” which features Ray Wylie Hubbard. They sing, “If I was the
Devil/I’d go and find your preacher man/Crusty
