upcoming trips. Visit www.davidson.edu/do for more information and to learn about other events.

POLICE BLOTTER

9/9/03 Residence Hall Larceny of Safe
Unknown person(s) entered a room in a residence hall and removed a safe containing approximately $140 worth of property. Still under investigation.

9/14/03 Ridge Road Assault
Unknown person punched a student in the face without provocation. Incident still under investigation.

9/12/03 Patterson Court Larceny of Mixer
Unknown person(s) removed a mixer from an eating house without permission. Estimated loss is $400. Still under investigation.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

Verizon deal to improve cell phone reception
By AMANDA STEPHENS Staff Writer

In an effort to improve cell phone reception on campus, Davidson has begun negotiations with Verizon to install an on-campus antenna. The antenna, approximately one foot in height, is to be installed on top of the E. H. Little Library.

According to Marcia Makl, Director of Networks and Systems, topography is primarily to blame for the poor cell phone reception on Davidson’s campus. Although Davidson is one of the highest points in Mecklenburg County, the northern part of campus lies in a valley, a factor that greatly contributes to the difficulty of cellular connection. As a result, buildings such as the Alvarez Union, Baker Sports Complex, senior apartments, sophomore apartments, Tomlinson, and Patterson Court buildings all receive poor cell phone service.

“Phone reception down the hill is less than adequate,” said Nia Pleasants '06. Tomlinson resident Dorsett Clark '05 said, “I don't get reception in my room; it's really annoying.”

The construction material of some of the residence halls also contributes to the poor service. This material is sometimes difficult for cell phone signals to penetrate, explaining the poor reception in some of the older buildings on campus. Another factor preventing clear phone calls is the distance between campus and the nearest cellular tower located off Exit 25.

In addition to providing better cell phone reception for students and faculty, the new antenna would also enhance reception for the town of Davidson. In exchange for allowing Verizon to install its antenna on college property, Davidson would enjoy improved service without paying a cent. Calling it a “win-win situation,” Information Technology Service Director John Casey explained that Verizon would be able to provide better service to its customers, while students would benefit from clearer phone calls.

The College has been discussing the possibility of a new antenna with Verizon for the past two years. During this time, various locations on campus were surveyed for the antenna’s installation. While it was decided that the roof of the library would provide the best coverage, other possibilities included the light post by Richardson Residence Hall, Knobloch Campus Center, and DCPC. Because of its small size, the antenna will not be visible from campus, and the antenna’s installation will have no visual effect on the campus environment. Should current negotiations yield a contract, antenna installation could begin as soon as the end of the semester.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

CVS, Main Street’s newest addition, is the first of many additions which will change the face of downtown Davidson.

New CVS anchors Main Street
By LESLIE HEMPSON Staff Writer

When students returned to Davidson this semester, they visited such Main Street enterprises as Summit Coffee, The Soda Shop, and the new CVS. Although the first two have been integral parts of downtown for years, the latter is an example of the recent development that is slowly changing the face of Davidson.

Town planner Lindsey Hobbs, Jr., said that Harris Teeter originally sought approval to build on the current CVS site in 2000. The corporation eventually dropped the project, and CVS initiated its own approval process in 2000 or 2001. After the town of Davidson accepted CVS’s development proposal in March 2002, The Stephens Company began construction on the store.

Hobbs stressed that he and his co-workers at the Planning Department took great pains to ensure that the CVS building fit in with neighboring stores. They insisted that CVS place an entrance on Main Street and assign most of its parking spaces to the area behind the store. Randy Kincaid, mayor of Davidson, said, “We hold businesses to real strict design standards. We’re not going to have...any franchise architecture. That building CVS is in is just night and day different from ordinary CVS buildings. While they’re not unattractive, they’re just not appropriate for our downtown.” The response to CVS’s move has been mostly positive among students. Jennifer Mickle ’05 said, “I think they did a pretty good job of fitting it into Main Street architecturally.” Emmanuel Jose ’06 agreed, saying, “I like the way it fits into the rest of the town.” Other students questioned the necessity of moving the drugstore a third of a mile away from its previous location. Krista Heiner ’06 commented, “Just because something is more convenient doesn’t mean they have to build it.” Kincaid explained that CVS relocated to Main Street in an attempt to increase profits. He said, “I think their motivation was pretty clear. From what I understand from them, their stand-alone stores just do lots more business than the ones that are in shopping centers.” Hobbs believes the drugstore’s decision has paid off, noting, “Their business has really boomed just from moving to this location.” He claims that some citizens did not even realize there was a CVS before the new store opened. CVS’s departure has left a hole in the Sadler Square shopping center. Its former building is currently tenantless, and its former neighbors can no longer depend upon it to draw customers to their stores. Dr. Karen Hales, MacArthur Assistant Professor of Biology, said, “The only worry is what’s going to happen to the Sadler Square area because [CVS] was the anchor for it.” Neither Kincaid nor Hobbs knew of any immediate plans to bring another business to the Square. Hobbs expressed his approval of the CVS move, saying, “Traditionally, if you go to a small downtown, the anchors were a drugstore, a bank, and a courthouse or town hall. They were central anchors for downtown retail.” He also promised that CVS’s presence would bring new “energy” and “business” to Main Street. Still, in any town, especially a small one, it is often difficult to encourage development without harming some of the independent stores that make the town unique. Kincaid argued that future development would not necessarily pose a problem. He stated, “Growth doesn’t have to be destructive. It’s the growth rate that matters. So we’ve been growing at two to three percent a year. We can handle that. You can’t really grow any faster and shouldn’t grow any faster than your infrastructure can handle.” Kincaid admitted that traffic has become a problem in recent years. Consequently, he and his staff formulated a street connectivity project. This project requires town officials and developers to connect previously unconnected streets and eliminate dead ends so that traffic will be dispersed away from Main Street. Four street connectivity efforts have already been completed. Although Hobbs denied any knowledge of additional plans to alter Main Street, it is likely that downtown Davidson will continue to grow. He said, “We would love to see some redevelopment done downtown as long as it was appropriate and fit the town.”

Fitness, from page 1

being played merely depends on when you go into the center. Faculty and administrators tend to dominate the mornings while there is a higher percentage of student use in the afternoons. Adam Chalker ’04 explained, “I’m usually here in the mornings, and it’s not a problem.” Lewis said, “I have to turn up my walkman really loudly to drown out the music,” referring mostly to her experiences exercising in the afternoons. Though there are some suggestions as to a resolution, the controversy seems at a standstill between those calling for freedom and those who simply want to work out in peace. Thornberry said, “This is not a First Amendment issue. We are not a public institution.” She noted other college prerogatives, like the ability to restrict access to college property. “Because we own the facilities, we can set up the rules on [how] they’ll be used.” Stroud advocates that people deal with the issue on an instance-related basis, saying, “If someone finds someone else’s music offensive, then they should directly engage in some sort of dialogue with that person.” Others suggest that everyone simply bring a personal discman when they go to exercise.

News Editor Brandon Carroll contributed to this article.