‘Thirteen?’ skillfully executed and acted

By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Thirteen”’s opening scene puts two girls on a bed. They do whippets and squeal with delight, “Hit me! Hit me
harder!” It’s “Fight Club,” but effective. Catherine Hardwicke’s writing and directing debut tells the story of a good seventh grader,
Tracy (Evan Rachel Wood), who succumbs to a bad seventh grader, Evie (Nikki Reed). Evie is the most popular and
attractive girl in school; she likes boys, drugs, stealing clothes, and her popularity. Evie has the intelligence to avoid trouble
with the authorities, but lacks the foresight to know better.

Wisely, Hardwicke, who co-wrote the screenplay with 14-year-old Reed, never suggests didactically that the word “foresight” should be replaced with
“parents.” Evie lives with a distant relative, Brooke (Deborah Kara Unger in an eccentric and economic performance that avoids implausibility),
who could be Evie 20 years from now. She obsesses over her appearance and her booze, but underneath her cool
façade, a heart beats. We sense that, simply, this woman cannot raise a child and that Evie and her actions
are no one’s fault.

Often, Tracy’s mom Melanie (Holly Hunter in a buzz-worthy performance) clings to the phone and her AA sponsor. Alone, she
manages two teenagers and a full-service, in-home beauty salon. There’s also the occasional squatter or three that she boards generously
and unquestionably. At the beginning of the film, it seems that Melanie is doing well: Tracy and her brother (Brady
Corbet) excel in school and have good friends and extracurricular activities. The household’s only tension concerns alimony.

But then comes The Day That Changes Everything. Donning a cute T-shirt, Tracy catches Evie’s eye. There’s a compliment, a
phone number, and a rush of adrenaline. The girls plan to shop after school, but when Tracy calls Evie to
confirm their date, she realizes that Evie duped her: the number is fake. With foolish optimism that only children and
naive adults possess, Tracy takes a bus to the clothing store. Evie and company avoid Tracy and lift accessories. Dejected,
Tracy finds a street bench, and Fate sits next to her. A woman talks loudly on her cell phone, and
while the conversation distracts the woman, Tracy removes the wallet from her purse. Tracy returns to Evie’s clique a heroine,
and the group buys lots of Sketchers.

Evie and Tracy become fast friends. The former all but abandons her guardian for her new friend and her family—or
maybe Brooke abandons her—and the latter eagerly trades her gymnastics leotard and bookish friends for tight jeans and popularity. As
she does in almost all her movies, Holly Hunter proves herself as an actress for whom words are expendable. Hunter’s
face and body are an elegant solution to the problem of communicating a character’s thoughts. Without any dialogue, “Thirteen” conveys
Melanie’s thoughts more thoroughly than any speech could. She is a woman struggling to understand, guide, and respect her daughter.
Even after Tracy throws an unwarranted tantrum, Melanie only watches Tracy in confusion and distress. Her passivity is not bad
parenting or heartlessness; rather, it represents her fear of making one false, irreparable move. If Melanie does not understand her
daughter’s behavior, at least she understands and fears the situation’s volatility.

Despite her efforts, there’s so much that Melanie could never understand or fathom. The profusion of sex and drugs brings
“Thirteen” into parable territory. I hope never to meet the...

Every Monday 1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-in only)
Every Tuesday 1/2 Price Wings Buffalo, Barbecue (dine-in only)
KARAOKE NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY 10 UNTIL CLOSING STARTING SEPT 16

Lake Norman - Harborside
Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”
Open @ 11 a.m. 7 days a week - Rain or Shine - Serving Full Menu All Day!
(704) 896-9013to end. Harb, a 13-year-old who dabbles in violence, drug abuse, sex, and unlawfulness as enthusiastically as Evie and
Tracy do.

Mirroring the film’s young protagonists, the style is colorful, fast-paced, and bubbly. Director of photography Elliot Davis and editor Nancy
Richardson use skewed angles, fast cutting, and a myriad of other techniques to give “Thirteen” art-house and chaotic textures. Led
by Hunter, Wood, and Reed, the performances are as excellent as the costumes and sets are believable. “Thirteen” is a
skillful movie in every way.

The various comments heard leaving the theater were lukewarm: the audience in which I sat complained, “So what?” It seems
that “Thirteen” was too uncomplicated and too meandering. But just the opposite is true. “Thirteen” does not simplify its subjects
with manufactured plot, with turning point, then climax, then neat resolution and take-to-heart message.

For example, Larry Clark’s similarly titled and themed “Kids” looks at its misfit teens pornographically, reducing its characters to plot
devices for cheap effects. During a viewing of “Kids,” our horror grows as the film reaches its AIDS-is-coming-to-get-you conclusion. We,
therefore, isolate ourselves from Clark’s story because, naturally, we are better than those silly, misguided, STD-spreading hoodlums. “Thirteen” knows that
those hoodlums have motives, too. It is not only sex and drugs, but also much more. During the eventual confrontation
between mother and daughter — a sequence without words — we realize how much Hardwicke involves us in her story.
Isolation (moral superiority) is not an option. While “Thirteen”’s characters may be unbelievable, Hardwicke respects and expertly tells their inconclusive
stories.

Thirteen
Directed by: Catherine Hardwicke
Written by: Hardwicke and Nikki Reed
Starring: Evan Rachel Wood, Nikki Reed, Holly Hunter

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Wednesday, October 8, 2003

New Strokes, same folks
By Andy Heston
Staff Writer

With their to-be-released sophomore album “Room on Fire,” the Strokes seem to have set themselves up for the biggest sophomore
slump since the Stone Roses. Following the incredible success of “Is This It” is a challenge I certainly wouldn’t want
to square up against: love it or hate it, the Strokes’ last album became a sort of litmus test for
critics to weigh their opinions against. Along with the White Stripes’ “White Blood Cells,” the standard-bearer for the entire garage
rock movement, even if the Strokes and Stripes happen to sound nothing alike.

Add to this reputation the recording and releasing of the album, which included several false starts and postponements; a switch
from Radiohead producer Nigel Godrich to Gordon Raphael (“Is This It’s” knob-twiddler); and the hallmark of every hotly anticipated album
these days, internet leakage, thanks to which I am able to review the album several weeks before its Oct. 21
official release date. (In case the RIAA is reading this, I plan on buying it anyway.)

With “Room on Fire” the Strokes legend seems to have eclipsed the Strokes the band. They started living the dream
of rock star excess: hanging out with models and magazine writers, being photographed only with a cigarette, bottle of Heineken,
and an ironic T-shirt. “Room on Fire” almost became “Chinese Democracy,” a perpetual joke whose punch line never comes. The
Strokes proved more resilient than that: contrary to the hopes of some and the fears of others, they didn’t self-destruct.
“Room on Fire” exists, and is actually pretty solid. Time will tell how it is received as the follow-up to
“Is This It,” but after a few initial listens, the album seems like it will be taken seriously at least.

The Strokes have always been a band that explored how much they could do within the...

(continued on page 6)
