THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS

Jazz artist to visit this Friday
By Christine Haycock
Special Contributor

With the recent release of T.S. Monk’s newest recording, Higher Ground, the son of Thelonious Monk will perform his 11-musician,
pulsating and dynamic show “MONK ON MONK” this Friday in the Duke Performance Hall at 8 p.m. The show is
an 80th anniversary birthday tribute to his father, but its musical core comes from the sextet that the younger Monk
formed and with whom he currently performs.

T.S. Monk began his musical career before the age of ten, when he received his first drum set, and by
the time he was in high school, he had a reputation as a rabble-rouser. After graduation, he began playing and
touring with his father’s jazz trio, with which he played until his father’s retirement in 1975. The aspiring musician then
dove into the music, R&B, that captivated his own generation. It was not until 1992, when he formed his own
jazz sextet, that Monk received acclaim. He has earned the New York Jazz Awards “Recording of the Year” and Downbeat’s
prestigious “Reader’s Poll Award,” among many others. Ed Keane reports that “critics and the public lauded T.S. Monk as his
father’s true musical heir, as bandleader, and performer.” Monk has played with some of music’s greats: Natalie Cole, Herbie Hancock,
Tony Bennett, and Aretha Franklin. The New York Times says that Monk has “done what few children of cultural genius’
have done before him...forged a successful, highly respected career of his own.”

Also, he has gone beyond just performing music. T.S. Monk focused his attention on forming the Thelonious Monk Institute of
Jazz to honor his father’s legacy. The institute supports the efforts of education, creating programs that range from sponsoring music
education for students in the form of full scholarships to funding and supporting after-school athletic programs.

In addition to his performance on Friday evening, Monk will hold an open lecture at 1:30 p.m. on Friday in
Tyler-Tallman Hall. He will speak about his father, the effects of jazz on the community, a career in the arts,
and community outreach programs.

Birkdale’s frozen treats
By Lauren Law
Special Contributor

Within its fabricated village atmosphere, Birkdale contains two frozen dessert shops. Dolce Gelato Flavors of Italy has the feel of
a European cafe; across the “village green,” Cold Stone Creamery offers an array of all-American ice cream that would make
any patriot proud.

Cold Stone’s small town, soda shop ambiance exists only in towns like Davidson. Add that to the pop radio in
the background and the all-American boys behind the counter, and the place just feels like home. The staff and I
introduced ourselves to each other. One worker introduced himself as David Renzi. “Renzi?” I asked, “Shouldn’t you be working over
at the Italian place?” To this, Renzi, son of Ferdinand Salvatore Renzi, II, replied, “No way, this ice cream is
way better than that gelato stuff.” To my surprise, his coworker, Drew Kelly, piped in by saying, “Listen, we Italians
know our stuff. My mother’s maiden name is Vaglicia, and another guy who works here is...Italian, too, and we all
think this place is better. Besides, the only Italians over there are the owners.” What makes three Italian youths so
certain that this Arizona-birthed brand of ice cream is superior to authentic, Italian gelato?

STONE COLD CREAMERY
Sunday 1-10
Monday-Thursday 11-10
Friday-Saturday 11-11

DOLCE GELATO
Sunday-Thursday 11-10
Friday-Saturday 11-11

Cold Stone offers no less than 21 flavors and 45 toppings, or “mixins.” Any combination, the most popular of which
is cake batter ice cream with a graham cracker pie crust mixin, may be purchased in the “like-it,” “love-it,” or
“gotta-have-it” sizes, all under the rather middling price of $3.59. There are also low-calorie options, such as smoothies with low-fat
sorbet and non-fat mixins for comparable prices. End your expenditures by adding a tip to the large glass jar, and
you’ll soon be serenaded (to the theme of the Addams Family): “We’re cheerful and we’ll holler/ because we got a
dollar/ We’re thankful cause we all are/ the Coldstone Family...duh duh duh duh...snap, snap.”

So how does this Italian-backed American experience compare to the enticements of the little Italy across the street? Alex, the
man working at Dolce Gelato, was adamant about the superiority of Italian gelato. Luisa Castiglioni of Milan and Rudy Amadio
of Rome opened the shop in March of this year. While the workers themselves are not Italian, Alex is convinced
that the art of gelato has not been lost in the cross-cultural translation. He explained at length the making of
gelato, which involves the creation of a whipped texture without air bubbles. It produces a denser consistency and, subsequently, a
more vibrant flavor. These flavors, which range from “Fruits of the Forest” to “Creme Caramel,” are all low in fat
because they are made with milk rather than cream. In addition, many of the fruity flavors are non-fat, made entirely
without milk. Ready with the appropriate statistics, Alex pointed out that in a small gelato there are six grams of
fat, while in a typical ice cream serving there are 17 grams.

To the detriment of the typically broke Wildcat, Alex made an effort to point out that although gelato is slightly
more expensive than Cold Stone ice cream (a large being $4.25), the delicacy is well worth the dollar. However, this
cost efficiency may not reflect the value of service (or at least entertainment), because upon placing my dollar in the
tip basket, I received not a trite ditty, but rather the stimulating opportunity to read the index card which said,
“Your tips are greatly appreciated.”

So, what is to be said of our Italian confectionery conundrum? Do we take the word of Italian youths who
prefer the Americanized taste of high-calorie mixins? Or do we rely on the reported expertise of an American in an
authentic Italian shop? After an extensive taste test at each location - and the use of many “dirty little sample
spoons,” as they are referred to at Cold Stone Creamery - I feel that there is only one resolution: two
desserts.
