History professor Sally McMillen (left) and Elmore chat.

Senior athlete uses love of football to write history thesis

Graham Elmore ’03, a history major and standout football player for the past four seasons, found a way to combine
academics and his love of sports in his senior history thesis.

The undergraduate research journal Pierian Spring, published annually by Hendrix College in association with the Associated Colleges of the South,
will soon publish Elmore’s paper, “College Football During WW II: On the Home Front and the Battle Front.”

Elmore wrote the paper for the senior capstone history course last fall. He frequently met with his teacher and advisor,
Professor Sally McMillen, at the 8 a.m. conclusion of his early-morning football meetings. By the end of the semester, McMillen
was so impressed with the paper that she urged him to submit it to Pierian Spring, and spent several weeks
helping him with revisions to make it more suitable for publication.

“Luckily I enjoyed what I was researching, because after working on it an entire semester, it was tough to pick
it up again and work on it some more,” said Elmore. “But Professor McMillen did an unbelievable amount of work,
too. There was no guarantee that our efforts would pay off, but knowing that she was willing to keep working
with me motivated me to keep going.”

The paper outlines how collegiate football during World War II boosted public morale on the home front, helped military institutions
teach lessons of teamwork and prepare soldiers for conflict, and gave soldiers in the field an emotional outlet.

Elmore also discussed how now-common football terminology, such as “recruits,” “linemen in the trenches,” and “long bombs,” was coined during
the war.

As a junior safety in the Wildcats’ defensive backfield, he was named to the Pioneer All-Conference team and the Don
Hansen Football Gazette All-American Second Team. His proudest achievement, however, was playing as a starter for Davidson’s undefeated team in
2000.

Two weeks after graduation in mid-May, he will fly to Germany, where he will play club football this season for
the Deggendorf Black Hawks. With his recent academic credentials in hand, who’s to say he might not become not only
a star player, but the team’s official historian.

--College Communications

When beginning an exploration of unknown lands, challenges arise. Winds are unpredictable. Storms hit unexpectedly. Uncertainty rules. Superstitions abound. Why
explore alone? USAC, a consortium of 27 U.S. universities, has berths available for stout-hearted men and women. With programs in
19 countries and as many years of experience, no one is better equipped to help you reach your study abroad
goals.

When you're setting sail for ports-of-call unknown, be prepared.

Dancers will honor Costa in ‘diverse’ spring recital

Rehearsals bring back memories of senior killed in accident last month

By Matt Garfield
Editor

More than 100 performers will take part in the Dance Ensemble’s spring recital beginning Thursday night in Duke Family Performance
Hall, but one of Davidson’s most beloved dancers will be noticeably absent.

Senior Katherine Costa, an avid dancer who worked tirelessly to expand the ensemble in her four years on campus, was
killed in a car accident over spring break.

The recital is dedicated to Costa, and two of the dances she played a role in designing, one tap and
one jazz number, will be part of the program.

The shows are Thursday, Friday, and Saturday evenings at 8 p.m. Tickets are $2 and available at the Union Ticket
Office. The two weekend shows are expected to sell out.

It was Costa’s idea to create a dance that featured the senior members of Dance Ensemble, and after the accident,
they decided to use it to pay tribute not only to the seniors—but also Costa herself. Every dancer in the
show will appear in that dance.

“She brought it up last fall,” said performer Joy Gerdy ‘02. “After her death, everybody thought, ‘we need to do
this.’”

Costa was also working on choreography for a tap dance called ‘Puttin’ on the Ritz” in the weeks prior to
her accident. Sophomore Katie Zeh picked up where Costa left off and finished the plans.

“We want to celebrate everything she’s done by finishing her song and making the senior dance happen,” said Maria Berry.
“It’s everything she wanted Dance Ensemble to be.”

Performers said it was bittersweet to rehearse for perhaps their “most diverse” program ever—this spring’s show includes modern, lyrical, Native
American, belly dancing, hip hop, and ballet numbers—knowing Costa wasn’t there to be part of it.

“It hits us all at random times,” said Dance Ensemble President Betsy Pinchak. “The first time I saw ‘Puttin’ on
the Ritz,’ I got choked up. I’m watching choreography that she created.”

Added Vice-President Catherine Foster: “Katherine taught me everything I know about the theatre. This whole concert is her legacy.”

The Dance Ensemble has grown rapidly over recent years, increasing from as few as 10 members in 1998 to more
than 100 this year. The group hopes to add even more dance classes in coming months.

“Our hope is to be able to cater more to different levels of difficulty—through the classes of choreography that we
offer,” said Foster.

Australia
Chile * China * Czech Republic
Costa Rica * Denmark * England
France * Germany * Ghana * Ireland
Israel * Italy * Malta * New Zealand * Scotland * Spain
Sweden * Thailand

University credit
Scholarships available
Language classes at all levels
Month, summer, semester & yearlong programs
Wide range of academic courses
Internships
Field trips & tours

UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM

HTTP://USAC.UNR.EDU
