Corner — with Cannon Hodge

The Hat-Wearer Manifesto

Hats. Ahh... they’re so mysterious. Certainly, it was that fabulous big-brimmed black hat that birthed Holly Golightly. Certainly, it was
the shadow that the big black brim cast that made her so glamorous, so delicate, so... grand. Sure, the big
sunglasses and swept-up hair did something, but their final, mastered effect worked only because of that magnificent hat.

And then there’s me: Cannon Hodge. I’m nothing like Audrey Hepburn nor am I anything close to Holly Golightly, aside
from the Texas connection and Tiffany’s obsession, but I love my hats. No, my hat collection doesn’t fill an entire
room, but I have enough hats to keep me guarded throughout all of the seasons. There are my cowboy hats,
my wide-brimmed sun-hats (available in such keen candy colors), my winter hats (yes, there’s the babushka; actually, I own two),
and the newly acquired Carolina Blonde baseball hat. I never realized that I owned such an extensive collection until... well,
I really don’t know.

Here’s the history. Believe it or not, I used to rodeo. I only fared the quarter-horse Western Pleasure circuit and
the Fort Worth Stock Show and Rodeo but, when you’re on a horse and inside a formal arena, cowboy hats
are essential. There’s a law of decorum when it comes to this rule, and yes, it’s a rule. The black
or tan felt hats are worn during the winter months, unless you’re the bad guy in a John Wayne movie
and then you only wear a black hat. The straw hat is saved for the spring and summer months to
allow ventilation.

My sun-hats have a different, more trivial story that began a long time ago in a place called Charleston, S.C.
When Momma came to visit me (I worked in a pillow store), she decided that I absolutely needed a gracious
Southern hat to wear as I lounged around on the beach. Of course, I became slightly addicted and have since
bought lilac, turquoise, black, and beige, in addition to the original orange. The straw hats are quite nice to wear
during the spring, summer, and autumn months.

My winter hats, including the babushkas, and that obsession started around the same time that I rodeoed. Believe it or
not, I used to be a serious skier. (I know! The secrets that we all keep.) It was during that
snowy fashion era marked by those ridiculously crazy hats. I owned one resembling a purple elephant. At some point, I
became a bit more conservative and just stuck to a maroon, polar-fleece hat with googly eyes and dog-ears. I quit
skiing but continued buying winter hats. Again, Momma contributed and gave me her delightful mink babushka from the 1980s and
another babushka with a floppy brim. I also have a few knit hats to match my gloves or mittens and
the vintage felt hats from the local antique store. Now there are too many.

So. Contrary to popular belief, my hats are not so much of a fashion statement as proof of a ridiculous
addiction and maybe an attempt to be celebrity incognito. Hats are wonderful and, if you wear them right, the perfect
accessory to spruce up any ensemble. Oh, and by the way, have you seen the new white fox fur hat
at Neiman Marcus? It’s incredible. Note to self...

On THE Cat WALK

Will Arnold make a good governor?

Staff Writer works and what doesn’t work in “School of Rock.” What works is Jack Black. What doesn’t work is
everything else. This is not to say that Richard Linklater’s (“Dazed and Confused,” “Waking Life”) first mainstream effort fails in
every respect except its leading star. Black, the manically talented musical spaz behind Tenacious D, so thoroughly dominates this feel-good
formula picture that you can’t help but give it a nod of approval. Undoubtedly the most carefree physical comic since
Chris Farley, Black careens through “School of Rock” without devoting a single thought to subtlety or moderation. Unlike Farley, however,
Black has some genuine vocal pipes that give this role something more valuable than outrageous sight gags. He plays rocker
Dewey Finn, the kind of ingratiating, egomaniacal guitarist who thinks he was the missing link in Led Zeppelin but who
couldn’t cut it in most garage bands. In fact, even the group he began himself eventually becomes so sick of
his needless solos and mistimed moshes that they vote to fire him.his timid roommate Ned Schneebly (Mike White) prodding him
for cash, Dewey begins a quest for a new band. Without any immediate bites, he accepts a substitute teaching position
under the false identity of Schneebly at an elite elementary school. There he is greeted with an air of prestige
by the school’s nervous principal (Joan Cusack) and her jovial colleagues, all of whom instantly take a liking to him.
Of course, once Dewey settles into the classroom, he becomes the loveably obnoxious and apathetic character we have come to
expect from Black. Keeping his eyes riveted to the clock until the 3 p.m. dismissal, he has no intention of
teaching his fourth graders anything productive. It is not until he stumbles across these students busy in their music class
that he realizes that they might be the answer to his urgent employment needs. Carefully avoiding confrontation with Cusack’s typically
quirky Principal Mullins, Dewey assembles a rock n’ roll-intensive curriculum designed to prepare his students for a culminating performance at
the “Battle of the Bands.” He assigns each child a position, either on stage or behind the scenes, and the
chemistry among the group quickly accumulates.

It is not difficult to distinguish between what I consider the basics of the “unlikely teacher” recipe, leaving Black in
charge of lending the film some sort of uniqueness. Teacher hates students, students dislike teacher, teacher makes a connection, teacher
and students become indescribably meant for each other—the filmmakers never stray from such familiar plot territory. Linklater wisely nixes the
dual relationship focus of the somewhat similar “About a Boy” because the kids here are not nearly as interesting as
Black. Mike White’s script pays homage to every adolescent insecurity, from the overachieving band manager who worries about grades to
the apprehensive guitarist suffering from parental pressure to the rebellious drummer who just wants an excuse to break the dress
code. Thankfully, with Black controlling almost every frame, we never have to dwell over their cliched angst. The sweet climatic
scene plays like a gentler version of the “8 Mile” finale. Black’s over-the-top vocals blend nicely with the kids’ instrumental
talents to form a genuinely entertaining sequence. As in “A Mighty Wind,” songs that seemed silly earlier in the film
become involuntarily hummable, thanks in part to Black’s solid rock delivery.

Overall, “School of Rock” won’t stick around in your memory for long. As a whole, it neither offends nor impresses.
If nothing else, however, you should leave the theater satisfactorily amused by one of the screen’s most exciting new personas,
the predictably unpredictable Jack Black.

Jack Black headlines ‘School of Rock’

Strokes, from page 5

limited format of traditional rock instrumentation, and that formula holds true on “Room on Fire.” Their palette has expanded some
in the few years since the last album, though: the leadoff single “12:51” samples New Wave keyboards straight off the
Cars’ debut album, and, oh, those handclaps. Is there a single song that is not infinitely bettered by the inclusion
of handclaps? The song is as good as anything on “Is This It”: the keyboard line is infectious, and singer
Julian Casablancas seems to have replaced the blustery Sinatra swagger of “Is This It” with a cute, little, nursery rhyme
jingle.

“12:51” is the song that leaps out the most, which leads to a problem that plagues “Is This It” and
“Room on Fire”: working within such limited parameters, the songwriting has to be dead on to avoid repetition; when the
songs are there, the Strokes are the only band that matters, and when they’re not, it’s difficult to stay interested.
So just how is the new Strokes album? It’s definitely good. I’m not sure if it’s great. Part of the
beauty of “Is This It” is that songs that didn’t grab you the first time around had the chance to
become your favorites. “Hard to Explain” anyone? Only time will tell if the same is true on “Room on Fire.”
