Tue Davidsontan

For you sports fans... Davis’ picks of the week

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003 9

A Christmas wish list for Davidson athletics

Dear people in charge of our athletic program,

For Christmas this year I would like:

A new logo: The Wildcat logo is outdated and boring. It looks more like generic clipart from an old computer program than the symbol of a Div. I team. There might be less of a problem getting people to wear red to home games if we had a logo worth putting on t-shirts. Even the Cat Pack shirts have a giant paw print on the back because our ugly logo is unusable and unmarketable.

A better mascot: The only thing more boring than our logo is the mascot we have walking around at home games. The costume looks like something out of a third-rate amusement park or carnival. My suggestion: take a look at the black-and-white photo of the old mascot next to the doors on the second floor of the Union. It has a huge head and appears to be swinging from a rope. The most you’ll ever see the current Wildcat doing is clapping or shaking its head at a bad call. We don’t need flaming hoops or back flips (though they would be nice), but a somersault or cartwheel might be a nice start.

New basketball jerseys: Our jerseys, like the logo and mascot, are generic. The numbers look ironed on and the designs are plain. Even Davidson fans have to occasionally ask who number so-and-so is because there are no names on the back of the jerseys. Do they reuse them every year to cut costs?

A Davidson marching band: A good way to add insult to injury when losing a home football game is to bring the local high school band onto the field at halftime. Teach the orchestra to march and play some fight songs and get them out there.

A new fight song: One that doesn’t try to intimidate opponents with the lines “We play a fair game/we play a square game/and we win at everything.” Yikes. People whose parents went here talk about how much the old folks love it, but most students today are embarrassed to sing it.

More male cheerleaders or none at all: Having just one guy running around with all the girls at games looks bush league. The man deserves credit for his school spirit, but get at least a few more men out there to keep him company.

A men’s lacrosse team: All of the schools that Davidson likes to compare itself with — Princeton, Duke, etc. — have lacrosse teams. Even academic elites like Johns Hopkins and Dartmouth made the Sweet 16 last year. Why can’t we have a varsity team for the fastest growing college sport?

Seniors to play on Senior Day: Fans come to Senior Day to see the seniors compete in the last home game of their Davidson careers. The women’s soccer coach decided to ignore this and bench all of his seniors on their day this year. This should never happen again.

A legitimate rival: Fans need reasons to get excited for games. Few things are as exciting as a good rivalry game. Too bad we don’t have a rival.

More ways to keep fans interested: The biggest problem with Davidson sports is the lack of fan support. There’s just not enough fans at games. As one fan recently put it, “If I’m sitting in my room doing work during a game, I don’t feel

A South African amateur golfer was caught trying to cheat at the New South Wales Open. Shaun Colburn admitted to his cheating after being confronted the following day at the tournament’s playoff round, which he qualified for as a result of his sly tactics. After losing all his balls by the 15th hole, Colburn walked off the course at a score of 27 over par. However, his scorecard, which was passed in later that day, said he shot a 75. Suspicions arose when Colburn’s round partners claimed he left the round after 15 holes and a pro shop employee mentioned that Colburn had asked for an eraser with his scorecard. Can you say Honor Code violation?

In New South Wales, a record was set for the prestigious, exhausting sport of lawn bowling. Team Ballina played a 57-hour game, the longest game ever. The team exchanged uniforms for pajamas as they bowled through the night. No jerseys, no championship, and no salary. Can an exercise without any of the three previous elements still be considered a sport? Well, maybe not, but this feat deserves to be mentioned alongside lawn bowling.

In the town of Niteroi, Brazil, there was a jailbreak of 26 inmates. The feat: two one-legged inmates kept up with the others as they descended from a two-story window, ran through a jail yard, and scaled a brick wall, all while being shot at by prison guards with pistols.

This one’s a stretch. The wife of former Montreal Canadiens coach Michel Therrien is being charged with armed assault, aggravated assault, and uttering a death threat. The kids of Genevieve Therrien repeatedly kicked the seat of the lady in front of them at a youth hockey game. When the lady whose seat was being kicked told the kids to stop, Genevievelike I’m missing much.” No one wants to be at a bad party. Even if teams are losing, there should be a draw to the games. The problem is in the atmosphere. Events like tailgate parties in the Baker parking lot (or a warmer place in the winter) before home games might help. The frats and eating houses could host these parties to make sure they’re something students want to go to. This would help not only in getting more people out to the games, but in creating a fun and rowdy atmosphere. That way people doing work during games might feel like they’re missing out on something the same way someone doing work on a Friday or Saturday night would.

5S and other felonies told the victim she was going to kill her, punched her, and hit her with her purse. Eh?... In other beatings, a Jamaican soccer coach was banned from the sport for life after admitting to being involved in a massacre on three of his players. Reports say that Oliver Warren’s three players, who had asked to be traded, were beaten by nine men with sticks. Reported injuries included bleeding in the brain, kidney damage, and wounds to the arms, back, and head. Warren, I guess, was trying to show them how much they mean to their team...

411 for those who plan on attending this year’s summer Olympics in Athens this August. Your days might already be fully booked at the track and pools, but you might need to change your nightly plans. Don’t plan on visiting any brothels in Athens. The Greek Parliament recently passed legislation to close down the legal brothels in Athens in hopes to clean up the city for the games. I’m not going.

Ten reasons football is better than baseball
By MERIN FRANK
Staff Columnist

Ten Reasons Why Football is Better than Baseball: I am the type of person who tends to get in arguments about sports. This is one of my favorites. In descending order, my reasons for why football is better than baseball:

10) Helmets: Helmets are the newest fashion statement in sports. Should a team go old school, or jazz theirs up? Solid gold helmets are the only good reason for cheering for Notre Dame other than having gone there. Hats are nifty, but do you really need them in a dome?

9) John Madden: The man has built a video game franchise around his football and broadcasting careers, switched networks six dozen times, created the Turducken, and is just about the ugliest commentator around. And yet, we love him.

8) Homecoming: It turns one football game into a weekend-long event replete with parades, parties, and even a king and queen. What’s not to love?

7) BCS Drama: Playoffs aren’t as cool as this complicated, unwanted, and illogical formula that has created controversy since its inception. All I know is that Michigan-USC in the Rose Bowl warms my heart in this cold weather.

6) Athleticism: 340-pound tackles running faster than someone half their weight, quarterbacks playing with three concussions and a broken thumb, forty-year-old safeties with no cartilage left in their knees, and wide receivers with a five-foot vertical leap catching the ball one-handed with their left hand while concentrating on the cornerback trying with all their might to hit them so hard that the ball comes loose are all a little more impressive than the art of swinging a stick at a ball.

5) Physical Contact: Athletes getting paid to repeatedly hit their opponents is truly an American concept. Baseball would be awesome if you could hit people with the bat.

4) Tailgating: My grandma’s fried chicken, my brother breaking someone’s windshield while throwing a football, my cousin getting too drunk to go to the game — tailgating is a great, great thing. Dodger dogs have nothing on grandma’s chicken.

3) College Rivalries: College football rivalries are powerful things that are not to be discounted. Florida-Florida State, Texas-Oklahoma, Michigan-Ohio State: games like these can strain even the most stable and loving of roommate relationships. I wonder how that USC-UCLA baseball game turned out last year...

2) Weather: When was the last rain delay in football? It was 15 degrees out and snowing in Foxborough Stadium last Sunday when the Patriots played, of all teams, Miami. 28 inches of snow, 7 turnovers, fans throwing snow like fireworks, a safety, and one disputed field goal; to quote a movie popular the world over with college boys, it was glorious.

1) Cheerleaders: In the NFL, they earn a dismally small amount of money to dance half-naked in imaginatively-placed spandex. In college, they date the Quarterback. Baseball’s nearest equivalent: the players’ wives section, where there is a shocking lack of dancing, pom-poms, sequins, and swimsuit calendars. Although they try to make up for it with the combination of plastic surgery and imaginatively-placed spandex, how can they beat squads with names like the “Raiderettes”?

In all fairness, I should include some nice things about baseball in order to make it a real competition. So here are a couple. Baseball is nearly the only sport where:
- Fans jump out of the stands and beat up the players/umpires
- Teams hold odd races between food during the seventh inning stretch, and players knock the contestants over
- Small children are put in harm's way when they carry bats twice their size
- The players go on strike more often than anyone in France
- Spitting is cool