Staff Editorial

Some weeks ago, vandals spray-painted “KKK” on a wall in the middle of campus. The graffiti is gone, but this campus is in grave danger if it is forgotten. As last week’s Libertas’ C.M.A. Index pointed out, “We had a perfect excuse to examine the prejudice that most certainly exists on this campus. We instead used the incident as an excuse to show how unified we all think we are.” In other words, we will not tolerate racism, but neither will we talk about it.

Anna Deavere Smith introduced new language into the heretofore largely muted conversation last night, language that might up the dialogical ante enough to affect change—even if it’s in one person’s attitude. Smith talked about leaving our “safe houses of identity” and existing in “the crossroads of ambiguity.” At a school like Davidson, where people separate into neat sub-categories of sex, race, and ethnicity, we quite literally have houses by which we identify each other. Even our directory lists social affiliation beside our phone numbers and addresses, highlighting one’s house as an identifying characteristic. Of course, as Smith encouraged, some people need to keep the house in order. Others, though, need to move out into a less clearly defined existence.

This “crossroads of ambiguity,” Smith pointed out, is a scary place. So let’s get scared. Let’s exist as a campus that doesn’t think ribbons are an adequate solution to a very public act of insult. That existence starts with the conversation. One young woman wrote in Libertas, “Don’t be afraid to recognize that racism exists in many forms on campus. Sexism, classism, heterosexism, and hate are here too... All the -isms breed easily on the narrow brick walkways crossed in avoidance, on publicity fliers exploiting women’s bodies, in fists clinched tight around Gucci purse straps, behind the closed doors of many frat houses, in the rampant homophobia on campus.”

Forty years ago, in rural North Carolina, you would have found a lot of unlocked homes and a lot of what we would now consider racist and sexist language. Frankly, Davidson seems a little behind the times when we insist on being able to leave our doors unlocked (“because it’s DAVIDSON”) but are still hushing up racist instances and putting up offensive posters.

Smith also introduced a new thought she had this week: slipping. She talked about the need for people who are advantaged—and there are certainly a number of the advantaged here—to use their advantages to “slip” others into better positions. One portrait she performed last night told the story of a young Jewish girl taken in by nuns during the Holocaust—“slipped” into their safe world by people thinking about more than self-interest. When told about the recent vandalism after her performance and the seeming lack of conversation about it, Smith said, “If that’s the case, there needs to be some serious slipping going on here. This is the moment for people to come out of their safe houses.”

Let’s seize the moment.

Caroline Hauser, News Editors
Brandon Carroll & Aniee Patel, Perspectives Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003

Ali Fitzgerald

WELL OKTOBER, WHAT DID WE WIN? “THAT MARS SHOULD IMPLODE ARMAGEDDON-STYLE, STIRRING ONLY A UNIFORMED BEN A CALLto support landmine removal. Today, there are between 45 and 50 million landmines in at least 70 countries, which maim or kill 15,000 men, women, and children each year. Indiscriminate killers, mines cannot distinguish between soldiers of the current conflict and the footsteps of children five years later. But more than that, a minefield can restrict travel, and any area that is feared to contain mines cannot be cultivated. Many minefields are in poor, underdeveloped regions, and effectively stymie any growth. It costs between $300 and $1000 to remove one landmine safely and between $100 and $3000 to create a prosthetic limb for a landmine survivor. Adults must replace these prosthetics every five years, while a child needs a new one every six months. 

On November 6 at 6:00, Amnesty International will, in conjunction with a national movement, take part in the Night of a Thousand Dinners. We would like to invite all members of the Davidson community to take part in this event, aimed at both raising awareness of the landmine problem and raising money for Adopt-a-Minefield, which funds landmine removal and assists landmine survivors. The dinner will be highlighted by a documentary about landmines and speaker Bill Pope, the Principal Deputy Coordinator for the State Department. Tickets are on sale for $5 and will be on sale in the Union this entire week. Please come out and support us in this important campaign. We hope to see you there.

Clinton Rickards ’04 and Elizabeth Pandolfi ‘06

Stop complaining about dating. After reading last week’s article by Kristin Higbee and Nich Carlson, “Can’t get no satisfaction from dating?” that blames the guys for the lack of dating at Davidson, I’d like to say what most guys are probably thinking. I’m a senior, and almost every semester a girl writes this same story and gives the same reason behind the problem: that the men here are responsible for the dating problem. While I don’t think any one group is at fault, I do think it's childish and short-sighted to assign blame to an entire half of the dating pool. Please, how about everyone gets off their high horse and does a little constructive self-criticism. Since when does finger-pointing get you a date?

I would like to point out the inherent irony present when anyone blames the opposite sex for his or her own sexual frustration or Davidson’s dating problem. When you do that, you’re basically insulting the other sex, which you do not want to do if you are trying to date or hook up with one of them. When you don’t get asked out as a result, you’ve been proven correct, whether or not you realize that you caused their disinterest in the first place. Assigning blame does not turn people on or make you seem more attractive. It is a negative relationship. So my suggestion to the ladies and gentlemen of Davidson College, instead of writing articles blaming others for your problems, spend that time at the gym or the bar. I guarantee that either will help your chances.

Hunter Bick ‘04

Submissions of letters to the editor are limited to 250 words. Please send them to: editor@davidson.edu.

A DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

I have AMPLETS AT yyy: of A COSTUME BUT Apparently it SAFES THE Hey! Out OF MY Parent.