Davin Crow
Perspectives Editor

For a country as powerful as the United States, it is often easy to presuppose victory in a war. However, our success in this war will not ultimately be determined by whether or not we kill Saddam Hussein or cause his regime to fall. That is really the easy part. It is easy for the world’s last remaining superpower to come into a country such as Iraq and use our tactics of “shock and awe” to decimate the government. The hard part is for the United States to successfully rebuild a country that has lived for decades under a totalitarian regime, has little established middle class, and no history of democracy.

While the United States has had great success rebuilding countries such as Japan and Germany after World War II, these are really not comparable cases to Iraq. Whereas both Japan and Germany had a solid foundation on which to build a strong democratic state, Iraq lacks any democratic underpinnings. Whereas Japan and Germany were composed of a relatively united population, Iraq is a nation deeply divided between different ethnic groups that have never been able to cooperate or peacefully live together.

Currently, Iraq is a country in turmoil, and it will be in even more turmoil after it is bombed into submission. This will be a very difficult position from which to start to build a democracy. If our recent efforts in Afghanistan are any indication, we will have a difficult time making Iraq into the state it needs to be for us to consider this war a victory. Winning in Iraq will only truly occur when we have established a true democracy. Losing will mean that the United States simply becomes Iraq’s next dictator. It is this possibility of losing that few people seem willing to accept.

What will happen if the United States is unsuccessful in implementing a true democracy in Iraq? What will happen if the new government we place in Iraq is unable to control the different factions? What will happen if the government is forced to resort to force and dictatorial tactics? These are the questions that we must address, and soon. Now that we have committed to war, we must make sure that we don’t just get rid of the current regime, but also figure out a way to replace it with one that can unite the people of Iraq and integrate the country into the global community. If we cannot do these things then it will not matter if Saddam Hussein is dead or alive. What will matter is that the Iraqi people will see that their new regime has done little to improve their lives, the new regime has been placed there by the United States and this new regime has come at the cost of many, many Iraqi lives. All this will do is create more and more resentment for the United States.

Like all Americans, I hope that we win this war, but I also know that we must be prepared to lose.

---

Listening, not yelling, is key to understanding one another
By Kristine Harrington
Guest Columnist

The church has homosexuality on the brain. The issues of whether gays and lesbians may be married in the Christian church, or even more, whether they may be ordained to serve as pastors, have come to the forefront of Christian debate. At the heart of this debate lies the broader question of the appropriate context for sexual expression. The church has traditionally allowed sex only within marriage, leaving little room for discussion concerning such issues as premarital sex or homosexuality. Every day, however, we are bombarded with other messages that say sex is an individual choice and should have practically no limitations.

The debate over sexuality has become polarized, leaving little room in the center for honest and open discussion. The problem is that more moderate viewpoints have voluntarily remained silent, concerned about stepping on toes. The only “prophets” left are so busy pointing fingers that there is no room left for justice or redemption. Among the “conservative” voices are the Rev. Jerry Falwell, who blamed 9/11 on abortion and homosexuality, solidifying the stereotype that all Christians were judgmental critics with nothing constructive to say. The “liberals,” on the other hand, have become so concerned with defending individual autonomy that they resort to their own stereotypical tactics. At a pro-choice rally I attended I saw signs saying “Abortion should have been legal when Bush was in utero.” Such polarized political language leaves the rest of us wondering if our own commitments aren’t strong enough.

But the strongest commitment may be a willingness to hear the other side. May I boldly propose that in our daily lives, we allow more room for communication and less room for uninformed judgment? And yet where do we find a model for respectful dialogue? Faith unburdened from unloving judgment might be a place to begin. When we seek out the true message of Christianity, for example, we find not pointing fingers and closed fists, but open hands and hearts. Today we look around and find conservative and liberal representatives condemning one another without even listening. Our communities must be bold enough to say “no” to polemics and “yes” to respectful dialogue.

Whether this dialogue is religious or secular, opportunities for respectful give-and-take abound here at Davidson. I invite you to take part in another one. On Sunday, March 30, at 7 pm, at Davidson United Methodist Church, there will be a forum on Sexual Ethics. I invite all community members and students to speak with one another and, through respectful dialogue, together begin to formulate a healthy sexual ethic. The forum will have some specifically Christian undertones, but I caution you not to jump to conclusions. The purpose of this forum is to get beyond simplistic judgments and encourage us to consider ethically the role of sexuality in our lives, our relationships, and our communities. We cannot presume that all will agree, but we can expect that all will listen to one another.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

And that is a crucial place to begin. 

By Jeremy Tranthan

March Madness is here to distract us. Honestly, is there a better time of the year than the beginning of March Madness? I find the combination of brackets, upsets, Cinderellas, and buzzer-beaters, arousing. Seriously. March trumps Christmas as my favorite time of the year. In March, you have the beginnings of spring, the tournament, and Baseball’s Opening Day. Whoever said that in spring a young man’s fancy turns to love is a damn fool. In spring, a young man thinks about basketball, baseball, and cold beer. Anything can happen on the tourney’s opening weekend. You can’t afford to miss a minute. Otherwise, you might not see Bryce Drew will tiny Valparaiso to the Sweet 16, or Davidson’s near defeat of Ohio State last year. Hell, Butler beat Rick Pitino’s Louisville squad to advance to the second weekend this year. Butler. Whoever said that in spring a young man’s fancy turns to love is a damn fool.

There isn’t another sporting event that compares. NBA playoffs? Best of seven; the better team always wins. Same with Major League Baseball. Football? They save most of their drama for one game. The NCAA basketball tournament is three weekends of pure excitement. I get less work done than normal in March. I’m too busy checking to see how the teams I picked in my bracket fared. Speaking of which, the whole BYU scheduling snafu (they won’t play on Sunday) had me wishing that they made a Sweet 16 run. Office pools would have been destroyed, bookies would have been put on suicide watch, and Vegas would have instantly imploded. It may be the first time that a Methodist asked God for a Mormon basketball victory.

Watching CBS’s coverage of the tournament this year is one of the funnier things I’ve ever seen. Has anyone else noticed the constipated look on Dan Rather’s face every time he breaks into the basketball game with a war update? Like he’s about to pop an aneurysm the next time he has to go “back to Greg Gumbel in New York?” There are some similarities between the rhetoric used to describe sports and the rhetoric used to describe war. My advisor recently pointed out that some reporter claimed that the U.S. “dropped the hammer” on Iraq, and Saddam told Bush to “bring it on.” Sports announcers are prone to describe a player as a “warrior.” The player isn’t a warrior. Vikings were warriors. These guys play a game, and play it hard.

I think I appreciate the tournament even more this year because of the distraction it provides. You can only watch so much war coverage before you go nuts and buy a shack on top of a mountain right between Mike Tyson and the Unabomber. I think everyone needs a little distraction right now. That’s all sports are really—a damn good distraction from everything else life throws at us. It has kept my mind off of schoolwork for 3 years, and it’s keeping me from being sad now. Watching some no-name kid from a no-name school get hot and drop 3 bombs on a traditional power is a nice diversion from watching bombs drop on the Middle East.

---

U.S. must go ahead with missile defense to prevent Korean crisis

By Richard Guyer
Staff Columnist

Last October, the Bush State Department forced the North Koreans to admit what we ought to have expected—they were not honoring their 1994 commitment to abandon nuclear weapons development. This has, as we all know by now, led to a diplomatic crisis which currently shows no signs of ebbing. The primary short-term concern for the United States is that nuclear proliferation on the Korean peninsula could lead these terrible weapons to fall into terrorist hands. For this reason, it is of paramount importance for the Bush Administration to prevent further production of nuclear arms by North Korea. And that is where the problems really start.

There are not many good options for dealing with the North Koreans. We could, as we have already done, stop oil and grain shipments to the nation, hoping to bring its virtually nonexistent economy to a halt. But this takes considerable time, and time is not something we have a lot of. Another option is to try to cut a deal with the North Korean government. However, this has not worked in the past—for the last 9 years they have been ignoring the agreement Jimmy Carter brokered for President Clinton in 1994. One more option is to attempt a strategy of “containment,” but this keeps open the (not unlikely) contingency that North Korea will eventually invade South Korea and use its nuclear arsenal to force America to remain on the sidelines.

This leaves two alternatives with any real viability. We could place extreme pressure on the Chinese to intervene and end nuclear proliferation on the Korean peninsula by threatening to arm the democracies in the region (Japan, Taiwan, and possibly even South Korea) with nukes. Such a scenario would be devastating to China’s aspirations for regional dominance. Despite this, such a plan is itself somewhat risky without assured success. The final—and least appealing—option is war. While it is not the most likely outcome at this time, the odds are far from negligible. A second Korean War would be a dreadful affair for all involved, especially everyday Koreans on both sides of the 38th parallel. The prospect of a nuclear launch against Japan or Okinawa would be a constant threat, and the United States would face the serious moral question of whether to respond in kind to such an attack. However, for all its drawbacks, war may be the only way to completely resolve the issue.

At the end of the day, all this is one more reason for the United States to move ahead with a missile defense system. While it will not solve the immediate crisis in North Korea—God alone knows what will—it is the only thing that can prevent rogue states from blackmailing America in the future, and preventing such blackmail should be a key component of our foreign policy in the years to come.