The Davidsonian Elections, from page 1

Sigma fraternity and the establishment of the historically black fraternity Alpha Phi Alpha, the nature of the Court - and of social life in general at Davidson is soon to change. One of this administration’s main goals will be to keep students involved in the decisions affecting Davidson’s evolving social atmosphere.

Hubbard added about social life on the Court, “I want to make sure that students realize that the Code of Responsibility extends to all aspects of student life, even the Court.” Both Washington and Hubbard hope for many joint efforts with other student organizations. Said Washington, “We will seek more than communication; we will seek cooperation.” Without this cooperation, they realize the painstaking efforts of reevaluating the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility put forth by the current SGA could be in vain. “I want to work with PCC and the Honor Council,” said Hubbard, “to reinforce [the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility] with first-year students, especially in the week before First Night Down and Self-Selection.”

The newly-elected SGA officers also hope to make their administration the talk of the campus through many student-oriented initiatives. “We will work on projects that are visible,” said Washington, “so that students will no longer have to wonder what their student government has been up to.” Current SGA president Gray Patterson has full confidence in the individuals elected. Of Washington, he said, “[Charles] has seen how SGA works for the past year on a very detailed level and will be able to pick up right where I left off.” Of Hubbard, Patterson added, “I think that she has some definite plans for the SGA and... is concerned about the campus and wants to make sure that all students enjoy their time here.”

Winning the office of Union Board President by a close margin, Sperling also discussed plans to increase event publicity at Sunday’s debate. He stressed making the Union a more important part of student life and a bigger billboard for future events. Kate Fiedler, current Union Board president, was nothing less than excited about the Union Board’s future. She said jokingly of Sperling’s adjustment into his new position, “He’s been living in the office for a while, so he’ll feel right at home.” Adding her wishes for the future, Fiedler said, “I hope that the new officers will recruit and form an energetic group that is excited by the possibilities and aware of the challenge of the Union Board.” With the fresh new group of officers elected to both the SGA and Union Board, the student body awaits another productive and cooperative year.

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies Undergraduate Fellowship Program

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a year-long fellowship program, “Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism.” The fellowship program will commence in early August 2003 with a course in terrorism studies at Tel Aviv University in Israel. Using Israel as a case study, Fellows will learn about the threat terrorism poses to democratic societies around the world. Fellows will interact with academics, diplomats, and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the United States. FDD Fellows will be provided with all room, board, and travel expenses. FDD is a non-profit and non-partisan think tank that promotes informed debate about policies and positions that will most effectively abolish international terrorism. Interested students should visit our website www.defenddemocracy.org and complete the online application. Please send questions to fellows@defenddemocracy.org.

SGA allocates $10,000 to help fund joint projects

“Improve Davidson Fund Committee” will oversee future big-ticket endeavors

GEORGIE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

The SGA voted Thursday to install the Improve Davidson Fund in order to better serve the College’s chartered organizations and more efficiently distribute money. The ID fund will be put into place this year as a trial run. The objective...of the fund is to allow several organizations to work together in order to acquire money—up to $10,000—in the name of a common cause. For example, several organizations may come together to bring a big-name speaker to the campus. The ID fund was developed as a result of dealings with the Activities Tax Council. The ATC noticed that small amounts of money were going to different groups for the same objective. The ID fund allows for more money to go toward a common purpose. Chartered groups can now work together to develop and present an itemized budget and action plan for the money with the assistance of a faculty or staff adviser. Composed of the ATC chairman, the SGA treasurer, the Dean of Students, the Director of Student Activities, the Union Board President, and two non-SGA students appointed by the SGA president, the Improve Davidson Fund Committee will meet to decide which groups will receive the money. The ATC will then present that money to the groups before any other groups receive their allocations. The ATC is in charge of distributing the Student Activities Tax, which is a comprehensive fee for all students. The council has recently allocated money to Davidson Outdoors for parts and repairs for the red community bicycles and also for new kayaks. They also gave money to the Union Board that will go toward weekly movies, the coffeehouse, and Spring Frolics. The Union Board was in a money pinch due to the cost of bringing Dave Matthews to Davidson. Contrary to rumor, however, the Union Board spent only $20,000 for the concert.

Off-campus FIJI house confronts declining size
House reaching out to freshmen in hopes of boosting membership
By Ros Hemprick
Staff Writer

Amid controversy surrounding fraternity life on the Davidson campus, several students have begun to rethink the role of these fraternities in our community. The Davidson chapter of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity hopes to rekindle the values that its members see as founding elements of the brotherhood system itself. “We have a renewed sense of strength and purpose as to why we have fraternities in the first place,” says Rob Neuman ’04, President of the Delta Kappa chapter. Phi Gamma Delta, or FIJI, as it is commonly known around campus, is a Patterson Court organization with an off-campus house that has been chartered at Davidson since 1923. Its members choose not only to be separate from Patterson Court in terms of location, but also in terms of social philosophy. “Whatever people are seeing in fraternities at Davidson isn’t what they’re looking for,” says Neuman, citing low Patterson Court enrollment numbers in recent years. “Other groups tend to present themselves in terms of partying. We want to spell out the benefits of the fraternity system itself.” While their fraternity may not have the exposure that other Court organizations possess, FIJI members enjoy their low-key status. The house serves more as a hangout for the brothers than any other function, due to the fact that the building is not a residence for its members, like other campus fraternities. Unlike the other organizations, which rent their houses from the school, FIJI is proud to own its house independently. “The house is a nice place to go, gather, watch TV, study... It’s like a clubhouse,” summarizes Neuman. While the members of Phi Gamma Delta appreciate their closely-knit organization, they may soon be feeling the pinch due to the small size of the group—a total of eight members—six seniors and two juniors. With the possibility of waning membership in mind, the fraternity is hosting an informational meeting Thursday evening at 8 pm in the 900 Room, with the aim of spreading the word and values of FIJI to prospective members. “Our size hurts,” Neuman says. “It’s hard to get the message out with only eight guys. By taking this new approach we’re hoping to overcome that.” Neuman’s goal for the meeting and for the incoming pledge class is to stress the idea that the fraternity would be “built from the ground up,” according to the makeup of its new members and the cornerstones of Phi Gamma Delta—Friendship, Service, Knowledge, Morality, and Excellence.