"The wifey" because of the large amount of time they spend together, each junior brings something unique to the team
and to their roles.

Robyn Flewelling, nicknamed “Birdie” or “Robdoggie,” comes from Okemos, Mich. Her fellow juniors immediately note her versatility, her ability to
be a defensive pest, her deft passing abilities, and her leadership. Her leadership on the team has increased over her
career, as she currently holds a regular starting position at the shooting guard spot and averages 8.5 points per game.
As Laird remarks, “Birdie can just come out and play every day, with the same intensity and drive. She’s got
such a pure game.”

Meghan Bryant hails from just down the road in Huntersville, N.C. Her 6’3” frame and skilled hands make her a
“dominating presence” inside, as Hallsted notes. Shade also believes her athletic rebounding ability makes her one of the pivotal players
down low for the ’Cats. Named a pre-season All-American and most outstanding female athlete in high school, Bryant, called “Megs”
on the team, is less than 20 blocks away from setting a Davidson school record for career blocks.

Filling out the power forward position is Laird, coming all the way from Los Altos, Calif. Laird’s “defensive spark and
amazing attitude” help to motivate the team, as Hallsted remarks, whether in practice or in a game. “She always has
a fire, something that just lights up the rest of the team and makes us play better,” comments Flewelling. Laird,
also known as “Court,” contributes 7.4 points per game this season, as well as 5.8 boards. Not only is she
able to play the four position for the ’Cats, but, as she proved this past season, she was named one
of Michigan’s Top athletes in high school and has continued that tradition here at Davidson, as she was immediately expected
to contribute in her first season. Her black belt in kuk-sool, a Korean martial art, has helped to give “Ash”
a mental toughness and intensity that rivals most other athletes. “We can always count on her to hustle on the
court, and that is extremely important,” notes Laird.

The last junior, Lindsay Shade, comes from Atlanta, Ga., and complements Hallsted at the point guard and shooting guard positions.
“Shadey is like a coach on the floor for us; she is such a smart player,” says Hallsted. Content to
spend hours watching film and reading basketball books, “Shadey,” or “Peach,” brings wisdom beyond her years to the game and
is an expert at making the right play and finding the open player. She leads the team in assists and
leads all Southern Conference players in assist/turnover ratio.

Put together, these juniors can field a full team, and, during many games, at least three or four of them
can be found on the court together. As Hallsted remarks, “We have been playing together for so long that we
know each other’s tendencies; everyone brings something different to the game.” Despite their roller coaster ride over the past three
years, complete with stress fractures, mono, a player quitting, and a change in the coaching staff, the juniors are extremely
grateful to have had each other throughout it all. “What we’ve realized,” says Shade, “is that we have to play
for each other, because regardless of lost coaches and new faces, we are the ones coming back.” Senior Bethany Schott
agrees: “Their leadership and dedication are so important to the team. Not only are they a tight-knit group of friends,
but they are also an awesome group of players.”

Women’s tennis opens season with two home wins
By BRANDON JACOB
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s tennis team opened up the 2003 season in impressive style with routs over Belmont-Abbey and Queens College
of Charlotte. The Wildcats were 14-0 on the day, dropping only 10 games total. In the first half of the
doubleheader, the Cats cruised by the Crusaders of Belmont-Abbey, 7-0. Leading the rally was No. 1 player Kelly Fillnow ’05,
who defeated their number one, Stephanie Moser, 6-0, 6-0. Successfully filling in the No. 2 slot for a sick Meggie
Patterson ’05 was Meghan Fillnow ’05, who defeated her opponent, Seiko Nara, 6-0, 6-3. Lindsay Powel ’06 made an impressive
debut in the number three position for the Wildcats, defeating her opponent in straight sets. Katherine Hatch ’04, Gayle Jones
’03, and Sarah Borkowski ’05 also defeated their opponents in straight sets to give the ’Cats a shutout in singles
play. In doubles action, Davidson continued their winning ways, not dropping a single game to the Crusaders.

Later in the day, the Wildcats proved that their morning exploits had not been a fluke by trouncing the Royals
of Queens University. Kelly Fillnow kept her singles record perfect by defeating the Royals No. 1 6-0, 6-0, while Meghan
Fillnow disposed of their No. 2 player 6-2, 6-1. Powel kept her debut perfect, and Catherine Rainbow ’03 made her
first appearance for the Wildcats this season, winning in straight sets. Hatch and Jones both dropped a game early but
rallied to win 6-1, 6-0. All three pairs were victorious, dropping just two games. The Wildcats return to action this
Saturday with a slightly more challenging match against Liberty in the Knobloch Tennis Center at 10 a.m.

Off Furman in TV game
By ERIN DELK
Staff Writer

Despite coming off a disappointing loss and playing in their first televised game of the season, the women’s basketball team
crushed Furman this past Saturday by 22 points, 73-51.For their fifth conference win, TV jitters and defensive pressure caused several
early turnovers for both teams and kept the score under 10 for the first 10 minutes. Initially, Furman’s tough zone
defense contained Davidson’s driving options and eliminated many second-chance opportunities, even forcing a shot clock violation at the 11:30 mark.
The ’Cats adjusted, however, and they began to work the ball around to find more options. With 9:55 to go
in the first half, they found Courtney Laird ’04, whose jumper put Davidson up 12-10. The Wildcats would never trail
again. While the Paladins suffered a four-minute scoring drought, Davidson continued to build their lead with a jumper at the
7:30 mark by Joy Newsome ’05 to put the ’Cats up by eight, 18-10. Furman was not ready to give
up, and they stormed back with a run of their own by forcing two turnovers and converting on a layup
with 4:55 left, bringing them within two points. The Wildcats immediately went to their best scoring threat, Emily Callahan ’05,
who answered with a jumper and stopped the Furman run. The ’Cats continued to build on the lead, and with
three seconds left in the half, a free throw by Lindsay Shade ’04 gave Davidson a 10-point lead, 36-26, going
into the locker room. Furman’s dismal 29 percent field goal shooting for the first half didn’t improve much the rest
of the game, and every time the Paladins scored, Davidson answered with two or three baskets of their own. Even
when Furman stepped up the defensive pressure with a half-court trapping defense, the Wildcats were able to adjust. A Paladin
three-pointer with 13:05 left brought Furman to within nine, 49-40, but junior Robyn Flewelling’s jumper, followed by senior Bethany Schott’s
free throws, ended any further chances for Furman to catch up. The ’Cats continued to stretch the lead with three-point
baskets by Janell Crayton ’06, Callahan, Shade, and Laird, whose basket with 15 seconds left brought the crowd to its
feet. Davidson’s 48 percent three-point and field goal shooting percentages, as well as their 43 rebounds to Furman’s 27, proved
too much for the Paladins to handle, and the ’Cats recorded their tenth win of the season. Davidson faces Wofford
this Saturday in Belk Arena.

Track teams return to Chapel Hill, post better showing

Schmader runs eighth fastest 5k in school history, women’s DMR places first

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Another trip to UNC last weekend left the men’s and women’s track teams with more good results and lots of
top-10 performances. Chris Schmader ’04 led the men, taking off at one point in the race to earn second place
in the 5000m run with a time of 15:31.22, the eighth fastest 5k time in Davidson history. Co-captain Jimmy Swansbrough
’03, nursing a nagging hamstring and just recovering from a bad cold, raced to an impressive eighth-place finish in the
mile in 4:29.93. “Jimmy, after barely training the past two and a half weeks, came out with another gutsy performance,”
commented head coach Gary Andrew. Schmader, however, was the most impressive. “I was hanging back at the mile and feeling
pretty good, so I decided if I still felt fresh a little later, I’d take off,” he described. “Just before
the two-mile mark, I made my move.” His two-mile mark was a 9:55 split, and the sudden distance he put
between himself and the third-place Duke runner was jaw-dropping. Andrew agrees, “He just took off at one point and ran
a fabulous last mile. That was a breakout race for him in the 5k. He just reached another level.” Freshman
Mike Anselmo also found a spot on the Davidson top-10 shot put performer list with a put of 38’ 7”.
“(New Jersey local shot put instructor) Harry Bozack would be proud of me,” said Anselmo, a native of Randolph, N.J.
The sprinters also found success. Junior Andrew Pratt improved his 60m personal record to 7.37, and David Oyler ’04 and
Johannes Norling ’04 both improved seasonal bests in the open quarter with times of 54.97 and 54.18, respectively. “It’s very
positive going into Conference, and when we taper the week before, we expect to see some high-level performance from the
guys,” said Andrew. The women’s team found similar success. The distance medley relay team—composed of Lindley Swartz ’05 in the
1200m, Jana Yee ’03 in the 400m, Hilary Leister ’06 in the 800m, and Liz Gross ’03 in the 1600m—placed
first with a time of 13:08.45. “At conference, we’re going to put a lot of focus on the DMR, cutting
our time again and challenging for a top-three placement,” explained Gross. Gross ran in the mile even before her leg
in the DMR, earning a seasonal best time of 5:26.97. Other notables from the field include Amanda Yeck ’04 clearing
5’1” in the high jump and freshman Jamie Glenn’s performances in the 60m and 200m sprints. In her first meet
of the year, Glenn’s times of 8.52 and 28.39 led the Davidson squad. Said Gross after the meet: “The indoor
season has been a great start for us this year. Our freshman runners have really stepped up and added depth
and talent to the team.” She added, “With several key runners returning to competition, I think we’re going to have
a very strong performance at Conference.” Both the men’s and the women’s teams conclude their indoor seasons in a week
and a half at the two-day Southern Conference indoor championships in Johnson City, Tenn. on Feb 21-22.
